
        Marilyn J. Morheuser, the lawyer at the center of a 13-year court struggle to make New Jersey's school-financing system more equitable for the state's poorest districts, died on Sunday at her home in Newark. She was 71.
        The cause was cancer, according to the Education Law Center, a Newark-based public-interest organization of which she had been executive director since 1979.
        Ms. Morheuser was the agency's lead counsel for the plaintiffs in Abbott v.  Burke, a class-action suit brought in 1981 to challenge the state's Quality Education Act of 1980. Arguing on behalf of pupils of the poorest urban schools, the suit asserted that the state had inadequately responded to a State Supreme Court ruling on school financing in 1973. That ruling said that New Jersey's method of school financing violated the State Constitution by failing to guarantee parity between the poorest and the most affluent districts.
        The court -- the state's highest -- agreed with the center, ruling in 1990 that the law was still unconstitutional because it did not meet the educational  needs of disadvantaged city children. It ordered that those needs be met.
        The law center returned to court the next year, this time to obtain a compliance order, which the Supreme Court in Trenton handed down in 1994. In it, the judges decided that the state must increase the financing of the 30 poorest  districts to a level where their per-pupil outlays would equal the average of the wealthiest districts by fiscal year 1996-97.
        The judges demanded that schools in hard-pressed cities like Newark, Camden and Paterson be provided preschool programs, health services and smaller class sizes. The state has the responsibility to provide them rather then leave it up  to the impoverished districts, they wrote.
        Ms. Morheuser did not start her professional life at the bar; a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Webster College, she first was a nun. She spent 16 years teaching high school and college around the country, wherever her teaching Roman Catholic order, the Sisters of Loretto, sent her.
        Being of a rather radical bent on social issues, she decided that she could achieve more on the outside. She quit the order in 1963 and became an advocate for racial equality in Milwaukee.
        In 1973, she received her J.D. at the Rutgers-Newark School of Law. Before she joined the Newark law center she represented such organizations as the American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey, the Urban League and the National  Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
        Her work attracted many honors, including a Special Achievement Award from the New Jersey Education Association in 1993, and the Martin Luther King Jr. Award from the National Education Association last year. Last May, she was cited as Woman of the Year in Education by the New Jersey League of Women Voters.
        Ms. Morheuser is survived by a sister, Marie Casey of St. Louis.
      