
        Simone Gallimard, a power in the French book-publishing world, died Monday in a clinic in Neuilly, a suburb of Paris. She was 77 and a longtime resident of Paris.
        The cause was cancer, the Associated Press reported.
        Mrs. Gallimard was the chief executive officer, with the title of president-director general, of the venerable Paris publishing house Mercure de France, which she had led since 1962. The house is known, among other things, for publishing works by prominent French writers and for printing French literary classics.
        She was the widow of Claude Gallimard, a member of a distinguished French publishing family whom she married in 1939. Her father was a Government official, and her maiden name was Simone Cornu.
        After working behind the scenes in publishing, she became the head of Mercure de France after it was purchased in 1958 by her father-in-law, Gaston Gallimard. Gaston Gallimard was the founder of the Parisian publishing house Editions Gallimard, which is now partly owned by the Gallimard family.
        Mercure de France, founded in 1894, had published works by Proust and by the  poet Guillaume Apollinaire but went into a decline before Mrs. Gallimard took its helm. Under her leadership, it prospered and published books by such well-known French writers as the poet and man of letters Yves Bonnefoy, currently a visiting professor at Williams College in Williamstown, Mass., and the poet Henri Michaux.
        Mrs. Gallimard once confessed that "being a woman, bourgeois and inexperienced, I had a hard time" when she first took charge of the publishing house. But the French news agency Agence France-Presse, in reporting her death,  said that she was "the soul of Mercure de France for 33 years."
        As chief executive officer, she played roles including, as Agence France-Presse put it, "editor, public relations person" and "discoverer of young authors."
        She also became involved in a publishing furor. In 1975 she published a novel, "Life Before Us," which had been written, according to Agence France-Presse, by the French novelist Romain Gary using the pseudonym Emile Ajar, without her knowledge that it was a pseudonym. The book was translated into 23 languages, sold 1.3 million copies, won a French literary prize -- the Prix Goncourt -- and was made into the film "Madame Rosa."
        Revelations about the novel's authorship embarrassed connoisseurs of literature who had failed to realize that Mr. Gary had written the book.
        Mrs. Gallimard's survivors include her four children, Francoise, Christian, Antoine and Isabelle. Antoine and Isabelle Gallimard are executives of the publishing company.
      