
        Mary Wickes, a tart-tongued character actress whose long career on the stage  and in films extended from "The Man Who Came to Dinner" to the two "Sister Act"  movies, died on Sunday at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center. She was 85.
        For 50 years, Ms. Wickes was one of Hollywood's busiest supporting players. She specialized in sourness, or, more politely, acerbity, which she used to her  comic advantage in roles as housekeepers, spinsters, wicked stepmothers, nuns and back-talking secretaries. Her face was always familiar but her name often escaped moviegoing audiences. "They may not ask for my autograph," she said, "as long as they sign my paycheck."
        Her signature role was in the original Broadway production, in 1939, of the  Moss Hart-George S. Kaufman comedy "The Man Who Came to Dinner." She was Miss Preen, the nurse who became the principal object of Monty Woolley's disdain: "Miss Bedpan," he called her. Ms. Wickes repeated the role opposite Woolley (as  Sheridan Whiteside) in the film version. Years later she was Miss Preen again in a television production, with Orson Welles as Whiteside.
        In a career that spanned more than 50 movies, more than two dozen Broadway plays and musicals and 60 television shows, she mocked her own plain looks and her abrasive manner of speaking. Given the opportunity, she was able to demonstrate her acting range, appearing as Penelope Sycamore in "You Can't Take  It With You" at the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco and as Mistress Quickly in Peter Coe's production of "Henry IV, Part 1" at the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn. In 1979, she was in a Broadway revival of "Oklahoma!" Last year she played Aunt March in Gillian Armstrong's movie of "Little Women."
        Ms. Wickes, whose original name was Mary Isabelle Wickenhauser, was born and  reared in St Louis. After graduating from Washington University there, she began her theatrical career in 1935 at the Berkshire Playhouse in Stockbridge, Mass. She then moved to Broadway with Philip Barry's "Spring Dance," and in Kaufman and Edna Ferber's "Stage Door," the first of several Kaufman plays in which she  acted.  Kaufman later called her his favorite comedienne.
        In movies, she frequently acted with Bette Davis ("The Man Who Came to Dinner," "June Bride" and "Now, Voyager"), Doris Day and Rosalind Russell. She was also in "Anna Lucasta," "White Christmas," "The Actress," "The Music Man" and "Postcards From the Edge," in which she played Meryl Streep's grandmother. In "Sister Act" and "Sister Act II," she was Sister Mary Lazarus.
        She made her television debut as Mary Poppins and then acted in "Mrs. G. Goes to College" (a series with Gertrude Berg), "The Catbird Seat" by James Thurber,  and a Western version of "Cinderella" called "Cindy's Fella," starring James Stewart; naturally, Ms. Wickes was the stepmother. She also appeared in "I Love  Lucy" and other Lucille Ball series and in episodes of "Dennis the Menace," "The Father Dowling Mysteries," "Murder She Wrote" and many other television shows.
        Her final performance was as the voice of a gargoyle in the forthcoming Walt  Disney animated feature "The Hunchback of Notre Dame."
      