
        Lillian Nassau, the doyenne of New York antiques dealers and one of the first in America to see a market in Art Nouveau and Art Deco, died early yesterday at her home in New York. She was 95 years old.
        Mrs. Nassau held forth in a forest of Tiffany lamps in her two shops, first on Third Avenue and 56th Street and, from 1968 until her retirement in 1982, on East 57th Street. For more than 35 years, her galleries were gathering places for collectors and museum curators from around the world.
        They came seeking the 20th-century decorative arts she stocked and the expertise she provided, both on the market and on the history of these objects. She was the first to handle the works of Louis Comfort Tiffany, and became his greatest champion in the revival that began in the mid-1950's and continues today. She paid $176 for her first leaded bronze-and-glass lamp by Tiffany in 1956; before her death Tiffany lamps were selling for more than $1 million.
        She was also among the first to stock the works of the giants of early 20th-century European design: Rene Lalique's jewelry and glassware, Georg Jensen's silver, Emile Galle's vases and lamps and the furniture of Josef Hoffmann, Louis Majorelle and Carlo Bugatti.
        In the 1970's Mrs. Nassau's clients included Catherine Deneuve, Marcello Mastroianni, Barbra Streisand, Andy Warhol, Warner Leroy, all the Beatles and members of Led Zeppelin and Blood Sweat and Tears. Edgar J. Kaufmann Jr., the architectural historian, started collecting Tiffany flower-form vases there in the 1950's. And David Geffen bought most of his Tiffany lamps there in the 1970's, selling them in 1984 at Christie's in New York for two to five times what he had paid. Sydney and Frances Lewis of Richmond, who were Mrs. Nassau's customers from the 1960's until she retired, donated most of their Tiffany, Art Nouveau and Art Deco objects to the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond..
        And after Mrs. Nassau retired, no dealer took her place as the dominant merchant in the field. She remained a recognized authority, often consulted by curators and collectors.
        Retirement was difficult for her at first, said her son, Paul, who took over the shop. "She wanted to keep running the business from home," he said. "But she was always available to talk, and until a few years ago, when she became ill, always gave me good advice."
        Lillian Brinberg was born in Warsaw. She arrived with her family in New York when she was 2 years old. She attended public schools and went to Columbia University for a few years, hoping to become a newspaper reporter. Instead, she was married in 1920 to Harry Nassau; they were divorced in the late 1930's.
        Mrs. Nassau became a dealer in 20th-century decorative arts in 1945, opening the shop on Third Avenue at 56th Street, her first. By then, she had spent a decade in the antiques business, buying and selling gold and jewelry door to door on Long Island, during the Depression. She also worked in a furniture store in Manhattan where she learned about antiques.
        She often recalled that as she came into the business, dealers were taking unpopular Tiffany lamps and knocking out the glass flowers and trees, to sell the metal for junk. By the mid-1950's, the revival in Tiffany glass had begun, and Mrs. Nassau was in the vanguard of dealers handling this material.
        Among her donations to institutions was a Tiffany mosaic mural that adds a glow to the courtyard of the American Wing at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. She also gave the Metropolitan her favorite piece of jewelry, a glorious enameled necklace, made about 1900 by Lalique.
        In addition to her son, she is survived by her husband Dr. Leo S. Palitz and a sister, Pauline Sorkin, all of New York; two grandchildren, and five great-grandsons.
      