
        Minna Lederman Daniel, who edited the influential magazine Modern Music for more than 20 years, died on Sunday at the Kateri Residence nursing home in Manhattan. She was 99.
        Beginning in 1924, Modern Music chronicled concert music, jazz, musical theater, film, radio and dance in the United States, Europe and Latin America. Although the magazine, which was published quarterly, occasionally featured articles by distinguished European composers (among them Alban Berg, Bela Bartok and Arnold Schoenberg), its importance stemmed from its serious coverage of new American music.
        Virgil Thomson, Aaron Copland, John Cage, Elliott Carter, Roger Sessions and Marc Blitzstein were regular contributors. The young Leonard Bernstein wrote for the magazine, as did Edwin Denby, the dance critic, whose career Mrs. Daniel helped nurture.
        Mrs. Daniel in turn wielded considerable influence, Joan Peyser wrote in a 1983 article for The New York Times, and "probably shaped pre-World War II American music more than any single composer did."
        Minna Lederman was born on March 17, 1896, in Manhattan. She studied music, drama and dance as a child and later attended Barnard College, from which she graduated in 1917.
        In 1923 she helped form the League of Composers with a group of musicians and new-music enthusiasts. "Everybody was terribly upset that the first concerts given by the league had been so badly reviewed," she recalled in 1983. "The critics had absolutely no knowledge. At the time we were receiving those splendid little magazines from abroad -- like La Revue Musicale -- and someone said, 'Let's have a magazine.' So I undertook to do it."
        The first issue was published in February 1924. It was originally called The  League of Composers' Review, but the name was changed the following year. When the magazine stopped publication in 1946, brought down by rising costs and ideological dissent within the League of Composers, many critics paid tribute. "It afforded information and informed editorial comment upon contemporaneous tendencies in music not to be found elsewhere," Olin Downes wrote in The Times.
        Mrs. Daniel continued to write on music and dance. She edited the anthology "Stravinsky in the Theater" (1947) and contributed to American Mercury, Saturday Review, The Nation and other periodicals.
        In 1974 she established the Archives of Modern Music in the Library of Congress, and in 1983 she assembled "The Life and Death of a Small Magazine," a  monograph published by the Institute for Studies in American Music. This compilation of articles, written for Modern Music by some of its most celebrated contributors and held together by Mrs. Daniel's commentary, won the ASCAP Deems  Taylor Award for distinguished music criticism in 1984.
        Mrs. Daniel's husband, Mell Daniel, a painter, died in 1975.
        No immediate family members survive.
      