
        Marguerite Young, the Indiana-born writer who became a darling of the avant-garde and inspired a devoted cult following even as she infuriated and confounded mainstream critics with a single gargantuan novel, died on Friday at  the home of a niece in Indianapolis. She was 87.
        Miss Young, a longtime New School writing teacher who began her literary career as an award-winning poet and ended it as a critic, essayist and biographer, was a respected literary figure and cherished Greenwich Village eccentric well before Scribners published her one and only novel, "Miss MacIntosh, My Darling," in 1965.
        Afterward she became a legend: the woman with the pageboy haircut who looked like W. H. Auden, wrote like James Joyce, strode through the Village in her signature serapes, had breakfast at Bigelow's with Richard Wright, got drunk at  the White Horse Tavern with Dylan Thomas, palled around with Truman Capote and Carson McCullers, kept a vast collection of dolls in her Bleecker Street apartment and regaled intimates with tales of her romantic conquests.
        But for all her range, Miss Young drew a line. By her own account, she welcomed the advances of the poet Allen Tate but rebuffed those of Miss McCullers, telling her at Yaddo in 1946, "Well, Carson, if I could love any woman, it would be you."
        Anyone who has not heard of Miss Young, nor read her magnum opus, "Miss MacIntosh, My Darling," need not feel ashamed. Surely one of the most widely unread books ever acclaimed, it has actually been read by comparatively few; by fewer still all the way through.
        Indeed, even Miss Young's most ardent admirers (and her admirers, from Anais  Nin and Djuna Barnes to John Gardner, Anne Tyler and a prolific band of feminists, tend to be ardent) concede that the book, variously described as "a mammoth epic," "a massive fable" and "a work of stunning magnitude and beauty" (not to mention "hallucinatory," "ethereal" and "utterly stupefying"), is rather much to take in a single season. Too rich for a repast, it is better savored, they say, like a bedside dish of candy, one bite-sized bonbon at a time.
        It is "Miss MacIntosh," sure enough, that the hero of Miss Tyler's "Accidental Tourist" carries with him to dip into for consolation from time to time.
        It is a reflection of the book's decidedly mixed reception that while the daily review in The New York Times dismissed it with a sneer, Miss Young's friend, William Goyen, turned a Times Sunday review into a page-long paean.
        Narrated by the aptly named Vera Cartwheel, who indulges in nonstop verbal and mental gymnastics during a 948-page bus ride from coastal New England to the heartland of America -- and the interior of the author's mind -- it describes the narrator's largely imaginary quest for the illusory truth about her childhood nursemaid, Miss MacIntosh, who is bald, single-breasted and may or may not have drowned when Miss Cartwheel was 14 years old.
        Those who have merely read about "Miss MacIntosh" know it chiefly as a matter of length, from the 18 years it took to write to its very heft. At 1,198 pages and some three-quarters of a million words, it has been described as the longest novel in English ever published in a single volume; later editions, including a  facsimile reissue by Dalkey last year, have split it in two.
        Miss Young, who was born in Indianapolis in 1908, was precocious. She wrote her first poems when she was 6, joined the Authors League at 11, published her first poem at Indiana University when she was 19, won first prize in a literary  contest at Butler University when she was 20 and published her first book of poems, "Prismatic Ground," at 28, in 1937, a year after receiving a master's in  Elizabethan and Jacobean literature from the University of Chicago.
        Her most significant formative experiences at Chicago seem to have occurred outside the classroom, among them the friendships she struck up with Thornton Wilder, Gertrude Stein and other literary figures, but most notably her part-time job reading to a wealthy addict, Minna Weissenbach, a patron of Edna St. Vincent Millay. Miss Weissenbach and her astonishing flights of drug-induced fantasy inspired the famous "opium lady" in "Miss MacIntosh."
        Although she shunned drugs, Miss Young was capable of some pretty astonishing mental flights of her own, both on and off the printed page. In her (more or less) real life, as she told Charles Ruas in an interview included in his "Conversations With American Writers" (Knopf, 1985), she would regularly startle her New School students by announcing that, say, Henry James, had suddenly arrived in the classroom.
        And the Greenwich Village she inhabited was a far more interesting place than the one perceived by most:
        "I see Emily Dickinson quite often," she told Mr. Ruas, "Virginia Woolf, and  Dickens. Poe, oh, all the time. I see him on misty nights at Sheridan Square when the rain's falling. He's going into a little cigar store to get a cigar. I  am on very close terms with Poe."
        Miss Young, who taught at an Indianapolis high school and at the University of Iowa after Chicago, moved to New York in 1943 and burst on the literary scene two years later with the simultaneous publication of "Moderate Fable," which won the best poetry award from the National Academy of Arts and Letters, and "Angel in the Forest," a highly acclaimed account of successive utopian communities at New Harmony, Ind.
        After the publication of "Miss MacIntosh," in 1965, she began writing "Harp Song for a Radical," a biography of Eugene V. Debs. Thirty years later the book  is yet to be published, but Victoria Wilson, an editor at Knopf, said yesterday  the "astonishing" work needs just a little more pruning.
        It seems the manuscript Miss Young turned in was 2,500 pages long.
        She leaves no immediate survivors.
      