
        Jean Muir, the British fashion classicist whose design career spanned more than 30 years, died on Sunday in London at the London Clinic. She was 66.
        She died of breast cancer, according to a report in The Daily Telegraph.
        Often referred to as the doyenne of British fashion, Miss Muir, as she insisted everyone call her, designed starkly simple clothes that were timeless and elegant. A perfectionist who tried on everything she designed, she was best known for matte jersey dresses, supple suedes, featherlight punched leathers and cashmere sweaters.
        She considered herself a dressmaker first and foremost, yet employed tailoring techniques to achieve the controlled flow of fabric that gave her jersey dresses their signature fit. The shoulders were small, the waist slightly raised and the skirt fluid. It was a shape that particularly suited her petite figure. The dresses were nearly always in the somber black and navy blue she preferred and wore almost exclusively.
        Miss Muir developed a personal style that changed very little. For most of her life, her reddish brown hair was cut into a straight bob, her face was chalky white and her lipstick the color of black currants. Her London apartment was entirely white, down to the white rubber flooring. She was frequently quoted as saying, "When you find something that suits you and never lets you down, why not stick with it?" It was a statement that applied equally well to herself and to the clothes she designed, which were instantly identifiable as Jean Muirs and never followed the vagaries of fashion.
        "Jean was unique and original and irreplaceable," said Geraldine Stutz, the former president and owner of Henri Bendel in New York, which carried Miss Muir's clothing from the early 60's until the late 80's. The clothes can now be found at Barneys New York, Bergdorf Goodman, Neiman Marcus and Linda Dresner.
        "You can say unique and irreplaceable," Ms. Stutz added, "but in Jean's case it is literally and historically true. For years, other designers tried to copy the Jean Muir look and failed. The only ones who didn't try were the French, who called her 'la reine de la robe,' the dress queen."
        Yet, Miss Muir never had formal design training. Born in London and of Scottish descent, she attended boarding school in Bedfordshire, where she was taught sewing and knitting. At 11 she started to make clothes for herself and at 19 went to work in the stockroom at Liberty, the London store. She eventually became a sketcher in the store's made-to-measure department, and she went to Jaeger as a designer in 1956.
        In 1962, she became the designer for Jane & Jane, a company of young Londoners who, along with designers like Mary Quant, helped to shake up the staid British fashion world. That was when she caught the eye of Jean Rosenberg, the foresighted buyer who brought her to Bendel's.
        In 1966, she formed Jean Muir Ltd. in partnership with her husband, Harry Lueckert, a former German actor she had married in 1955. In her own business she was able to develop the style of clothing that appealed to women as diverse as Princess Alexandra, Lady Antonia Fraser, Glenda Jackson, Lauren Bacall and Joanna Lumley, the co-star of the British comedy "Absolutely Fabulous," who once worked as a Jean Muir model.
        She won many fashion awards, including election to the British Fashion Awards Hall of Fame last year, and was named a Commander of the British Empire in 1984. She was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in 1973. She served on the Advisory Council of the Victoria and Albert Museum from 1979 to 1983 and became a trustee the next year.
        Miss Muir, who had no children, is survived by her husband. She will be buried at Lorbottle, her estate in Northumberland, 15 miles from the Scottish border. A memorial service will be held at a later date.
      