
        Erica Morini, an Austrian-born violinist renowned for her exquisite musicianship as well as a brilliant but unobtrusive technique, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 91 and lived in Manhattan.
        Miss Morini was particularly admired for her performances of the concerto repertory, especially the concertos of Ludwig Spohr, which she helped restore to popularity. She also played and recorded the great concertos of Mozart, Beethoven, Brahms and Tchaikovsky.
        Harold C. Schonberg, the former chief music critic of The New York Times, once described Miss Morini as "probably the greatest woman violinist who ever lived," though the notion was not one that pleased her. "A violinist is a violinist," she said, "and I am to be judged as one -- not as a female musician."
        It was as a musician pure and simple that she earned consistently glowing reviews. After a 10-year absence from the New York concert stage, she returned in 1976 to give a recital at Hunter College; Donal Henahan wrote in The Times that the concert was "one of the most musically satisfying of this season." She  retired from the stage soon afterward.
        A violin owned by Miss Morini, a 1727 Stradivarius that was legendary for its tone, was stolen from her Fifth Avenue apartment as she approached death. A friend discovered the theft last month. The police and the F.B.I. said yesterday that they were still hunting for the culprit and the instrument, which was known as the Davidoff Stradivarius and had been appraised at $3.5 million. [The Metro  Section, page B3.]
        She was also a resourceful musician. During a 1953 performance of the Brahms  Violin Concerto with the New York Philharmonic, the A string of her violin snapped. She quickly exchanged instruments with the concertmaster, missing only  a note or two, and played on. The concertmaster, John Corigliano, replaced the string and handed the instrument back to her in time for the cadenza.
        Miss Morini was born on Jan. 5, 1904, in Vienna. She took her first lessons from her father, with whom she studied until the age of 7. She then entered the  Vienna Conservatory as one of the first women to study violin there; her teacher was Otakar Sevcik, who also taught the conductor Jan Kubelik.
        She made her Viennese debut in 1916, and it resulted in a personal invitation from the conductor Arthur Nikisch to perform with the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra and the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra. In 1920 she toured the United States, where she made her concerto debut under Artur Bodansky and presented four highly praised recitals at Carnegie Hall.
        She returned to Europe shortly afterward and remained there until the Nazi takeover of Austria. She moved to New York, where she continued to make regular  appearances and taught privately at the Mannes College of Music. In 1962 she joined Isaac Stern, Zino Francescatti and Nathan Milstein in a memorial concert for Fritz Kreisler at Carnegie Hall.
        Miss Morini was married to Felice Siracusano, a jeweler.
        She is survived by a brother, Frank, and a sister, Stella, both of Manhattan.
      