
        Johnnie Tillmon Blackston, who encountered one officious welfare inspector too many and used her anger to help change the system, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 69.
        Her family said the cause was diabetes.
        Mrs. Blackston turned her rage over the indignities of a belittling system into a grass-roots movement that won widespread changes and helped make the plight of welfare mothers a feminist issue. And if she did nothing else, she proved that a single mother on welfare can be a woman to be reckoned with.
        A sharecropper's daughter who was born in Scott, Ark., and never made it through high school, Mrs. Blackston was accustomed to running her own life. When things went bad in Arkansas, for example, she packed up her children, left her first husband behind and struck out for California in search of a better life.
        Mrs. Blackston, who worked in a Los Angeles laundry to support her six children, was not prepared for what she had to endure when she eventually went on welfare, and the system was not prepared for her.
        It was the early 1960's, a time, she soon found, when welfare inspectors routinely poked through recipients' refrigerators, demanded to know where they had got the money to buy television sets and staged midnight raids to make sure  they were not harboring men, a violation of the rules for women receiving Aid to Families With Dependent Children.
        When Mrs. Blackston, who had been a union shop steward, took offense at such  invasions of privacy, she sat down and sent anonymous letters to her neighbors at a Watts housing project, asking those on welfare to come to a protest meeting. More than 300 people showed up.
        Within months in 1963, Mrs. Blackston and her friends founded Aid to Needy Children-Mothers Anonymous, linked up with other state groups and inspired the creation of the National Welfare Rights Organization. Over the next several years it successfully campaigned for improvements, removing many of the system's paternalistic trappings and establishing welfare as an enforceable right.
        Along the way, Mrs. Blackston not only shaped the national welfare debate, but also changed the very terms of the argument, transforming what had been a concern far down the agenda of the civil rights movement into a compelling feminist issue.
        Noting that the vast majority of welfare recipients were women and children and likening welfare to a "supersexist marriage," Mrs. Blackston was unsparing in her analysis in addresses to welfare mothers. As she once put it:
        "You trade in 'a' man for 'The' Man. But you can't divorce him if he treats you bad. He can divorce you, of course -- cut you off -- any time he wants. But  in that case, 'he' keeps the kids, not you.
        " 'The' Man runs everything. In ordinary marriage, sex is supposed to be for  your husband. On A.F.D.C. you're not supposed to have sex at all. You give up control of your body. It's a condition of aid. 'The' Man, the welfare system, controls your money. 'He' tells you what to buy and what not to buy, where to buy it and what things cost."
        After serving as the national organization's executive director until a lack  of money forced it to close the Washington office in 1974, Mrs. Blackston returned to California, where she worked as a legislative aid and served on state and local committees concerned with welfare.
        She is survived by her second husband, Harvey Blackston; six children, Marcia Evans of Riverside, Calif., Ronald, Auluavance, Josalyn and Tanya Tillmon of Los Angeles, and Caffie Tillmon of Stockton, Calif.; 20 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      