
        Sister Evelyn M. Schneider, a former chief executive of St. Vincent's Hospital and superior general of the Sisters of Charity, the order that founded  it 146 years ago, died on Sunday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 84.
        Sister Evelyn's association with St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center spanned five decades. She joined the hospital as director of nutrition in 1945,  retired as president and chief executive officer in 1980 and continued as a volunteer until this year.
        The medical center, which has served the people of Greenwich Village and Chelsea since 1849, is operated jointly by the New York congregation of the Sisters of Charity and the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York.
        During Sister Evelyn's nine-year tenure as chief executive, St. Vincent's acquired the National Maritime Union headquarters at Seventh Avenue and 12th Street and made it over as the O'Toole Medical Services Building. The Coleman Pavilion and the Link Pavilion went up in place of outdated buildings, four other buildings underwent major renovations and an apartment building was bought to house residents and nurses.
        In 1966, Sister Evelyn was elected to a five-year term as superior of the Sisters of Charity of New York, putting her in charge of 1,200 nuns in 87 schools, colleges, hospitals and child-care centers throughout the archdiocese.
        She also played a role in helping her congregation adapt to the many changes  wrought by Vatican II, including an overhaul of its governance. She returned to  St. Vincent's in 1971 to become its president.
        Sister Evelyn was also the first woman to be elected president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, a position she filled for a year.
        Born on Staten Island, Evelyn Schneider entered the Sisters of Charity upon graduating from high school in New Brighton and earned degrees in English from the College of Mount St. Vincent in Riverdale and in nutrition from Seton Hill College in Greensburg, Pa. She received a master's in institutional management from Columbia University.
        Sister Evelyn is survived by two sisters, Sister Cecilia Schneider of Manhattan and Marie Schneider of Staten Island.
      