
        Helen Duprey Bullock, a historian who specialized in preserving the nation's  architectural, romantic and culinary heritages, died on Nov. 1 at her home at the Thomas House retirement community in Washington. She was 90.
        In a long and varied career, Mrs. Bullock maintained a singular focus. Whether working as an archivist in Colonial Williamsburg in the 1920's and 30's, cataloguing Thomas Jefferson's papers at the University of Virginia and the Library of Congress in the 1940's or serving as a historical architectural specialist and information officer at the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the 1950's, 60's and 70's, she kept her sights on early American history.
        She also brought a certain homeyness to history. If others, for example, saw the elements of colonial history as a process that might begin with a Parliamentary affront and end in a fiery speech in the House of Burgesses, Mrs.  Bullock tended to see the process as something that might begin with sugar and eggs and end in a chess pie.
        "History isn't just great political events," she said in 1955. "You can feel  it in fabrics, taste it in cooking and see it in architecture."
        A historian with a distinctly open mind, Mrs. Bullock, a native of Oakland, Calif., and a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, was forever  making sharp detours into new and fertile realms.
        There was the time in the 1920's, for example, when she was poring over 17th- and 18th-century letters searching for the odd mention of the color of a living  room wall or the hue of a kitchen ceiling in Colonial Williamsburg. But she became so distracted by references to colonial dishes and ingredients that she all but invented an entire new area of historical research with the publication  of her "Williamsburg Art of Cookery" in 1938.
        Mrs. Bullock made another detour in the 1940's. While working on Jefferson's  papers, a chance discovery of a piece of music sent to him by Maria Cosway, a friend from his Paris days, led to her 1945 account of their well-documented flirtation, "My Head and My Heart."
        She was best known, however, for her scholarly work on colonial recipes and food preparation. Widely regarded as the nation's leading authority on open-hearth cooking, she wrote widely in the field and served as a consultant to historical culinary projects like "The First Ladies Cookbook" and "The American  Heritage Cookbook."
        Her Williamsburg cookbook became the bible for the preparation of food in Williamsburg exhibitions, at least until the 1980's, when it was discovered that Mrs. Bullock, an eminently practical woman, had taken certain liberties with the original recipes. Having discovered that 17th-century cooks, lacking ingredients like baking powder and vanilla, had often prepared dishes no discriminating 20th-century diner would eat, she sensibly adapted them to modern tastes and ingredients.
        One that required no such adjustments was featured in "The American Heritage  Cookbook":
        Starting with three eggs and three-quarters of a cup of sugar, plus a pinch of salt, two tablespoons of melted butter and the grated rind and juice of a lemon, beat the eggs, add the sugar and salt and keep beating until smooth. Then stir in the butter and the lemon rind and juice and pour into a nine-inch pie pan lined with pastry dough. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes in a preheated 350-degree oven, or until the top is pale gold.
        The resulting chess pie "is not a handsome pie," Mrs. Bullock once noted. Maybe not, but few would deny that history has rarely tasted better.
        No immediate family members survive.
      