
        Evangeline Bruce, the widow of one of the most influential diplomats of the cold war and one of Washington's last grand hostesses, died on Tuesday at her home in Washington. She was 77.
        Mrs. Bruce -- whose husband, David K. E. Bruce, was the United States envoy to France, Germany, Britain, China and NATO before his death in 1977 -- was known for her legendary soirees at their Georgetown home, at once properly old-fashioned and glitteringly up to the minute. Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis once sent her a note praising "the bright path you cut through an age where so few people have grace and imagination and the virtues of another time."
        Mrs. Onassis added: "One was so proud as an American to think that other countries recognized you as our very best."
        Mrs. Bruce's A-list guests were politicians, literati and celebrities whose names often turned up in newspaper articles, diplomatic cables or campaign-contribution reports: Katharine Graham, Vernon E. Jordan, David Brinkley, Arthur Schlesinger Jr., Arianna Stassinopolous Huffington.
        But despite her undisputed place at the center of Washington's social whirl for nearly 50 years, she shunned what she called the "H" word.
        "Hostess -- that one I really resent," she once said. She was equally adamant that she did not preside over a salon.
        "I don't think any gathering in Washington includes the main ingredients of a salon," she said in 1984. "The French would say that a salon is like- minded people getting together to converse on literature, art, history and politics. The tone has to be light, humorous, witty and, the more elusive the reference, the more prized. In Washington we don't go in for elusive statements. We are not particularly well-read and therefore even the deft allusions are lost."
        Instead, Mrs. Bruce said, the talk in Washington tended to be "strictly nuts  and bolts."
        "It is rare here to discuss things in conceptual or philosophical terms," she said. "I like living here better than anyplace else in the world, but the first  thing I notice when I leave to spend some time in Europe is the conversation, the variety, the nonphilistine approach."
        A diplomat's daughter who had lived in a dozen countries before going to Radcliffe in 1937 to study Chinese history and French literature, Mrs. Bruce moved to London during World War II to work in the London office of the O.S.S.,  the predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency. One day her boss began questioning her about the languages she spoke.
        "I suppose you speak Italian," he said. She said yes.
        "German." She nodded.
        "French." Again, yes.
        "Well, you certainly don't speak Japanese and Chinese," he said.
        "Well," she said, "it happens that I do, sir, because my father was stationed in both countries."
        With that, David K. E. Bruce invited her to lunch.
        "I know it's a tired old cliche," Mrs. Bruce told Vanity Fair magazine, "but  we were partners in every sense of the word. For instance, from day one in Paris, David expected me to be solely responsible for all the diplomatic entertaining, which forced me to get over my shyness."
        Her husband, who worked for every President from Harry S. Truman to Gerald R. Ford, was called out of retirement to head the American delegation at the Paris  peace talks on Vietnam in 1970, and again in 1973 to be chief of the United States mission to Beijing. There Mrs. Bruce learned to address Chinese as "comrade," except when speaking to two male servants who were addressed as "mister."
        In China, Mrs. Bruce found that she had more time to herself than in earlier  postings. She spent some of it writing a book-length manuscript about the year 1795 in France.
        She lined up a publisher but shelved the project until a couple of years ago, when she rewrote the manuscript as "Napoleon and Josephine: An Improbable Marriage." Its publication by Lisa Drew/Scribner earlier this year was met with  interest in some quarters, incredulity in others. William Doyle, in The New York Times Book Review, called it "an extremely readable account of their lives together, and an easy and attractive introduction to Napoleon and his private life" despite a number of errors of fact, date and sequence.
        Mrs. Bruce started a Washington organization for runaways and abused teen-agers, the Sasha Bruce Youthwork Inc., in the 1970's. It was named for Mrs. Bruce's 28-year-old daughter, Alexandra, who was known as Sasha and was shot to  death on the family estate in Virginia in 1975. Her husband of three months was  later indicted. By then he had moved to Athens and, as a Greek national, he could not be extradited.
        Mrs. Bruce is survived by two sons, David Jr. and Nicholas.
      