
        Nancy LaMott, a cabaret singer and recording artist whose unadorned, heartfelt interpretations of songs epitomized the best of what could be called an all-American style of traditional pop singing, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 43.
        The cause was cancer, said her manager, Scott Barnes.
        In the last two years, Ms. LaMott had achieved a national reputation, and her recently released fifth album, "Listen to My Heart" (Midder Music), recorded with the arranger Peter Matz, received critical acclaim. In a cabaret field typified by showy histrionics, Ms. LaMott was a singularly unaffected voice. She brought to everything she sang a clean, clear sense of line, impeccable enunciation and a deep understanding of how a good song could convey a lifetime's experience.
        Ms. LaMott, born in Midland, Mich., was a self-taught musician who began singing with her father's band in her hometown. In the late 1970's, she moved to San Francisco, where she sang at the Plush Room and other local clubs. Arriving  in New York in the early 1980's, she worked as a cocktail waitress and a singer  at the Duplex and Don't Tell Mama. She also did demonstration records of theater songs by composers like Alan Menken, Marvin Hamlisch and Cy Coleman. In 1983, she was featured in the cabaret revue "It's Better With a Band," a show at Don't Tell Mama that featured the lyrics of David Zippel. The next year, she teamed up with Christopher Marlowe, who became her longtime accompanist and musical director.
        In 1990, she met the composer David Friedman and his companion, Mr. Barnes, who became her manager. Together with Mr. Zippel they produced her first album,  "Beautiful Baby," in 1991. Four more recordings followed. For her second album,  "Come Rain or Come Shine: The Songs of Johnny Mercer" (1993), she was named best female vocalist by the Manhattan Association of Cabarets. The following year, her third album, "My Foolish Heart," was chosen record of the year by the same organization. Her fourth album, a holiday collection, "Just in Time for Christmas," was released a year ago.
        Ms. LaMott was plagued with illness for much of her life. At 17, she was diagnosed with Crohn's disease, an ulcerative intestinal disorder. An operation  in 1993 reversed many of her symptoms and allowed her recording and singing career to blossom. In addition to her recordings, she made television appearances on "Good Morning America," "Live With Regis and Kathie Lee," "Today" and "The Charles Grodin Show."
        She is survived by her husband, Peter Zapp, an actor whom she married on her  deathbed; by her parents, Judy and Jack LaMott, and three brothers and three sisters.
      