
        Dr. Dorothy V. Whipple, who helped to secure the rights of women in the medical profession and advanced the cause of children through her widely influential work in pediatrics, died Friday at her home in Washington. She was 94.
        Dr. Whipple was the first married woman admitted to Johns Hopkins Medical School ("They objected on those grounds but finally took me in," she recalled in an interview decades later) and an early advocate of rearing children by using liberal amounts of cuddling and common sense. She graduated in 1929.
        "Be natural and easy with your baby," Dr. Whipple wrote in her 1944 book "Our American Babies." In an era when many doctors advocated strict feeding schedules and letting babies cry to exhaustion, Dr. Whipple dared to argue that feeding a baby when it was hungry might be a good idea, and she insisted that love and understanding were what counted: "Nothing we can do or provide for a baby is more important."
        As for letting a baby cry on and on, she said, "I found it made a lot of difference to me whose baby was crying."
        She was speaking as a mother as well as a professional, a dual role that she played long before it became common. In a 1968 interview, she said it required a sympathetic husband (in her case, the economist Ewan Clague), domestic help and "the constitution of an ox."
        Happy to be called "Mrs. Clague" by some friends and neighbors, Dr. Whipple, who grew up in New York City, did not change her name when she married Mr. Clague in 1923, after her graduation from the University of Wisconsin, where she had been a speed skater. She also received a master's degree from Wisconsin before attending Johns Hopkins.
        In the New Deal era, Mr. Clague helped organize the Social Security Administration and later served as Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In the early 1940's, Dr. Whipple was hired by the Federal Government to revise its popular "Infant Care" pamphlet.
        In her revised pamphlet, as in her book and in a syndicated weekly newspaper column on child care, she promoted a nurturing, down-to-earth way with children even as she showed her awareness of common family problems. A grandmother, she wrote, could be a blessing, or "a terrible pain in the neck."
        In 1939, Dr. Whipple began a private practice in Arlington, Va., one she continued for 40 years. She was a frequent contributor to professional and popular journals and wrote two other books: "Euthenic Pediatrics" and "Q: Is the Grass Greener? Answers to Questions About Drugs."
        The book on drugs was published in 1971 and advocated a more lenient approach to prosecution of marijuana-related crimes because, she argued, criminal sanctions had not stemmed the spread of drug use.
        Dr. Whipple's husband died in 1987. She is survived by two sons, Llewellyn Clague of Hastings, N.Y., and Christopher Clague of College Park, Md.; a daughter, Anne Farber of Manhattan; seven grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      