
        Connie Boucher, a pioneer in licensing cartoon characters who provided the inspiration for "Happiness Is a Warm Puppy," a best-selling 1962 book about Snoopy, the "Peanuts" comic strip character, died on Dec. 20 in San Francisco of complications after heart surgery. She was 72.
        Ms. Boucher was a window dresser for I. Magnin, a San Francisco Bay area women's clothier, in 1959 when she grew dissatisfied with the quality of coloring books available for her two sons. With her husband, Jim Young, she created a Winnie-the-Pooh coloring book, using a character that was in the public domain. The book sold 50,000 copies.
        Two years later, she founded Determined Productions Inc. to develop other products based on licensing characters. One of her first efforts was a calendar  using the characters in the "Peanuts" comic strip.
        "What made her different was the quality and originality of her ideas," Charles M. Schulz, the cartoonist, said yesterday. "She proposed the date book in 1961, and now everyone is doing them. After that, she started doing sweatshirts and banners and all that. She kind of set a standard for licensing,  which up until she came along had not always been that high."
        Mr. Schulz said that the second year's calendar sold twice as well and that they began discussing his desire to publish books using Charlie Brown and other  characters. Until then, he said, publishers had been interested only in reprints of his comic strips.
        "She had seen the strip I had drawn where Snoopy is being hugged by Charlie Brown and Charlie Brown says, 'Happiness is a warm puppy,' " Mr. Schulz said. "Connie said that maybe this could become a good book, and I said I didn't know  if I could think of any more of those ideas. That day, after she left, I wrote virtually all the ideas in 'Happiness Is a Warm Puppy' and it was the best-selling book the next year."
        The book spent 45 weeks on the New York Times best-seller list, reaching No.  2.
        Five years ago, Ms. Boucher's company helped underwrite a show at the Louvre  in Paris celebrating 40 years of Snoopy.
        In recent years, Ms. Boucher turned her attention to conservation issues. She helped arrange product licensing to benefit the World Wildlife Fund and other organizations. She was also nominated for an Academy Award for producing "Amazon Diary," a short live-action film, a spokeswoman for her company, Jaymi Horn, said.
        In addition to her husband and business partner, Ms. Boucher is survived by a sister, June Dutton of Sausalito, Calif; two sons, Douglas, of Belvedere, Calif., and Theodore, of Davis, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      