
        Irene Corbally Kuhn, a journalist who traveled on five continents and wrote books as well as newspaper and magazine articles and columns, died yesterday at  the Briar Crest-Deaconess Nursing Home in Concord, Mass., where she had lived for the last year. She was 97 and had spent all of her earlier life, when she was not traveling, in Manhattan.
        Mrs. Kuhn's many writings included a volume of memoirs, "Assigned to Adventure" (1938), which Augusta Tucker, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called "the story of an unafraid woman who has seen a lot of the world as a newspaper reporter" and added that it "has pace, it has interest, it has color, and the woman who wrote it has sense: a quality not consistently present  in the kiss-and-tell books of some of the male correspondents.".
        Mrs. Kuhn was born in Greenwich Village and studied at Marymount College in  Tarrytown, N.Y., and at Columbia University. After reporting for The Syracuse Herald and working in Paris for The Chicago Tribune, she went to China in 1922 and became a reporter for the English-language Shanghai Evening News and then for the International News Service in Honolulu.
        In 1926 she returned to New York City, joined The Daily News, and concentrated on feature writing. She spent a few years as a staff reporter for The Honolulu Star-Bulletin, and after returning briefly to The Daily News and working for other news organizations, in 1939 she joined the National Broadcasting Company, for which she reported and worked in other capacities until 1950.
        In 1939, she was a founding member of the Overseas Press Club of New York.
        After leaving NBC, she wrote a syndicated column and did other writing, including reminiscences that appeared in Gourmet magazine in the 1970's and 1980's.
        Her husband, Bert L. Kuhn, also a journalist, died in 1926 after four years of marriage. She is survived by a daughter, Rene Kuhn Bryant of Lexington, Mass.; a granddaughter, and two great-granddaughters.
      