
        Roxie Roker, a star of the long-running CBS television series "The Jeffersons," died on Saturday, her publicity agent said. She was 66.
        Her family, including her son, Lenny Kravitz, the rock guitarist and singer,  declined to release further details, said the publicity agent, Cynthia Snyder.
        Ms. Roker was born in Miami. She grew up in Brooklyn, earned a drama degree  from Howard University in Washington and studied at the Shakespeare Institute in Stratford-on-Avon, England. While holding an office job at NBC in New York in the 1960's, she appeared in Off Broadway shows, including Jean Genet's play "The Blacks." In 1967-68, she was a host of "Inside Bedford-Stuyvesant," a community-oriented show on WNEW-TV.
        After resigning from NBC and turning full time to acting, Ms. Roker appeared  onstage with the Negro Ensemble Company in "Ododo" and "Rosalee Pritchet." She won an Obie Award, and was a 1974 Tony nominee for her performance as Mattie Williams in "The River Niger." Her other Off Broadway credits include "Behold! Cometh the Vanderkellans" (1971) and "Jamimma" (1972).
        Ms. Roker moved to California when the producer Norman Lear cast her in "The  Jeffersons," a 1975 spinoff of his series "All in the Family." The new show moved Archie Bunker's black neighbors, the Jeffersons, from a blue-collar Queens neighborhood to a luxury apartment house in Manhattan.
        The character played by Ms. Roker, Helen Willis, was a black woman with a white husband, Tom (Franklin Cover), television's first interracial couple. They were neighbors of George and Louise Jefferson (Sherman Hemsley and Isabel Sanford), and the Willises' daughter eventually married the Jeffersons' son, Lionel. "The Jeffersons" ran for 10 years.
        Ms. Roker later made guest appearances in other television series and specials and returned to the stage. She appeared in a stage production of "The Jeffersons" and toured with Mary Martin and Carol Channing in "Legends."
        Her community work, including her role as a board member of the Interagency Council on Child Abuse and Neglect, earned her two citations from the Los Angeles City Council.
        A marriage to Sy Kravitz, a former NBC executive, ended in divorce, said a spokesman for Virgin Records, their son's recording company.
        In addition to her son, she is survived by her father, Albert Roker, and a granddaughter, Zoe.
      