
        Toni Cade Bambara, a writer and documentary film maker who was celebrated for her intricate use of Black English in fiction, died on Saturday at a hospital in Philadelphia. She was 56 and lived in Philadelphia.
        The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Karma Bene Bambara of Philadelphia.
        In the early 1970's, Ms. Bambara was a major contributor to the emerging genre of contemporary black women's literature, along with the writers Toni Morrison and Alice Walker and others. Many of her stories focused on men and women living in black neighborhoods in big cities or small Southern towns -- as  one reviewer put it, "young women and men who formed their political convictions in the fury of the 60's and find themselves gasping for air in the torpor of the 70's, manicurists, singers and students struggling to trim the rhetoric of their wishes to the smaller, tighter fit of reality."
        What critics found most striking about Ms. Bambara's fiction, though, were the structure and language she used. Rather than using traditional linear plots, she would often use flashbacks, stream of consciousness and interweavings of plot and subplot to tell a story. She would frequently weave black dialects into her prose, creating a unique, complex language that was widely admired by critics.
        Ms. Bambara published one novel, "The Salt Eaters," in 1980. She also edited  several anthologies and wrote several short-story collections, including "Gorilla, My Love," published in 1972, and "The Sea Birds Are Still Alive," published in 1977. Reviewing "Gorilla, My Love" for The New York Times in 1972,  C.D.B. Bryan wrote that her stories were unusual because they addressed racial issues in a tone more thoughtful than angry.
        "Toni Cade Bambara tells me more about being black through her quiet, proud,  silly, tender, hip, acute, loving stories than any amount of literary polemicizing could hope to do," Mr. Bryan wrote in the review. "She writes about love: a love for one's family, one's friends, one's race, one's neighborhood, and it is the sort of love that comes with maturity and inner peace."
        Ms. Bambara was born in New York City, and growing up, she spent much of her  time in public libraries. Louis Massiah, a friend and colleague in Philadelphia, said that as a child, Ms. Bambara would often visit a Harlem branch of the New York Public Library, where she was inspired by two black poets: Gwendolyn Brooks, whose photograph hung there, and Langston Hughes, who she said would often come and talk to children there.
        Ms. Bambara graduated from Queens College with a bachelor's degree in theater arts in 1959. In 1965, she received a master's degree in American studies from the City College of New York. She was an assistant professor of English at Rutgers University from 1969 to 1974, and she also held various teaching positions at Duke University, Atlanta University and Spelman College, among others.
        From 1986 until this year, Ms. Bambara taught script writing at Scribe Video  Center in Philadelphia. Mr. Massiah said that during her tenure at the center, she helped start the careers of several black women film makers. She wrote and lectured frequently about film, stressing the importance of movies that dispel Hollywood stereotypes about blacks.
        Over the last decade, Ms. Bambara also collaborated with Mr. Massiah on several television documentaries, including "The Bombing of Osage Avenue," about the police assault on Move headquarters in Philadelphia, and a biography of Cecil B. Moore, a prominent civil rights activist in Philadelphia. Her most recent project was a documentary about the life of W.E.B. Du Bois, which she worked on with Mr. Massiah and several others.
        Throughout her life, Mr. Massiah said, Ms. Bambara fought for the rights of minorities, women, children and the homeless.
        In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her mother, Helen Brehon of Queens, and a brother, Walter Cade of Queens.
      