
        Nancy Kelly, an award-winning stage actress who also appeared in scores of films, died on Jan. 2 at her home in Bel Air, Calif. She was 73.
        The cause was diabetes-related illness, her family said when they reported her death yesterday.
        Ms. Kelly started as a child model and successful child movie actress. Hard work found its reward in the universal acclaim she received during the 1954-55 Broadway season when she appeared in Maxwell Anderson's play "The Bad Seed."
        She played a mother who realizes that her daughter (Patty McCormack) is a murderous psychotic and tries to atone for her crimes. Her performance won her a Tony Award.
        Walter Kerr, writing in The New York Herald Tribune, remarked: "Though Miss Kelly has done attractive work on Broadway before, she has never really prepared us for the brilliance of the present portrait." Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Kelly "never forgets that she is not playing a figure in a melodrama, but a human character tortured beyond human endurance."
        Ms. Kelly and Ms. McCormack re-created their characters in the film version, which opened to more mixed reviews in 1956.
        Nancy Kelly was born in Lowell, Mass., to a New York ticket broker and an artist's model; the family moved to New York shortly after her birth. She was regularly employed as a child model and took part in dramatic productions while attending the Bentley School for Girls.
        As a child she appeared in some 50 Hollywood movies and from 1938 in leading roles. Broadway began to pay attention when she portrayed Blossom in Rachel Crothers's play "Susan and God" in 1937. She also won praise for her work in Clifford Odets's play "The Big Knife" (1949), and Wolcott Gibbs's "Season in the Sun" (1950).
        She was less successful in comedy as the lead in "A Mighty Man Is He" (1960), in which she played a beleaguered wife. Over the years Ms. Kelly was also seen in Edward Albee's "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" and "Box-Mao-Box; Quotations From Chairman Mao Tse-tung." She last performed in the 1970's, appearing onstage in Los Angeles and with the national touring company of Neil Simon's "Gingerbread Lady."
        Her film credits included "Jesse James" (1939), "Stanley and Livingstone" (1939), "To the Shores of Tripoli" (1942), "Woman in Bondage" (1944) and "Crowded Paradise" (1956).
        Ms. Kelly's three marriages ended in divorce.
        She is survived by a daughter, Kelly Caro Rosenberg, of Howell, N.J., and three granddaughters.
      