
        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy's church, children and grandchildren today celebrated the enduring Catholic faith of the founding mother of a political dynasty at funeral services in the church where she was baptized 104 years ago.
        Her last living son, Edward M. Kennedy, eulogized the mother of a President, two Senators and an Ambassador and the grandmother of two United States Representatives and the Lieutenant Governor and a state representative in Maryland, saying, "She was ambitious not only for our success, but for our souls."
        "She sustained us in the saddest times -- by her faith in God, which was the greatest gift she gave us -- and by the strength of her character, which was a combination of the sweetest gentleness and the most tempered steel," he said.
        Bernard Cardinal Law, Archbishop of Boston, celebrated the Mass of Resurrection at St. Stephen's Roman Catholic Church and said, "Surely, as she herself expressed it, her greatest gift was the gift of faith."
        "She treasured it beyond all others," he continued, "and we honor that gift in her as we bring her here to this church."
        The Cardinal read a letter of condolence from President Clinton and an apostolic blessing from Pope John Paul II, and called Mrs. Kennedy "a woman of great strength and deep faith, who is unequaled in the way her life was at the service of the commonweal."
        "Few lives," he said, "have been so intertwined with the joys and sorrows of our nation's life as have hers."
        Mrs. Kennedy, whose sons John and Robert were assassinated, whose son Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. died in a wartime plane explosion, and whose daughter Kathleen was killed in a plane crash, was quoted by her grandson Edward M. Kennedy Jr. as saying in her autobiography, "Times to Remember" (Doubleday, 1974):
        "The most important element in human life is faith. If God were to take away all His blessings, health, physical fitness, wealth, intelligence and leave me with but one gift, I would ask for faith -- for with faith in Him and His Goodness, mercy and love for me, and belief in everlasting life, I believe I could suffer the loss of my other gifts and still be happy."
        Along with personal friends of Mrs. Kennedy and her children, the congregation of more than 700 included Tipper Gore, the wife of the Vice President, Mayor Thomas M. Menino of Boston and Senators John Kerry of Massachusetts, Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina and John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia, all Democrats. The two most prominent Republicans were Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, who has preceded Senator Kennedy in one Senate chairmanship and followed him in another, and Gov. William F. Weld of Massachusetts.
        One absentee who was frequently recalled was Mrs. Kennedy's oldest living daughter, Rosemary, who resides in an institution for the mentally retarded in Wisconsin. Eunice Kennedy Shriver, the next oldest, said, "Mother's intelligence was always informed and directed by the strength and compassion of the heart," exemplified when "she never forgot or let us ignore the company of our sister, Rosemary." Mrs. Shriver told of Rosemary's going with her on her first trip to Europe and of their forging a friendship that became the basis of her work for the disabled and the mentally retarded.
        The grandmother's determined jaw was recognizable on many of the dozens of descendants who attended. The service was occasionally punctuated by cries from the youngest of her great-grandchildren who were here.
        Mrs. Kennedy's 104 years amounted to just more than half the history of the Republic, and Senator Kennedy said she "was born in 1890, the year of the Battle of Wounded Knee, when Benjamin Harrison was in the White House."
        "And she never let us forget that she had lived so much of the history that we only read about," he said.
        Rose Elizabeth Fitzgerald was baptized in St. Stephen's Church on July 23, 1890, just a day after her birth. She graduated from Dorchester High School and received her diploma in 1906 from her father the Mayor, John F. Fitzgerald, who was known as Honey Fitz. She was courted and wed in 1914 by an ambitious banker, Joseph P. Kennedy.
        Both Senator Kennedy and Mrs. Shriver called their mother "our greatest teacher." Mrs. Shriver told of geography quizzes and bedtime stories, and said, "She taught us to listen to Dad's dinner table conversations about politics, which seemed too boring to a small child but later became the basis for our life's work."
        This morning Massachusetts drivers stopped in the cold at highway overpasses to watch the motorcade bring her body from her home at Hyannis Port. This afternoon, after the church service, she was buried next to her husband, who died in 1969, in Holyhood Cemetery in Brookline.
      