
        Kathleen Tynan, a writer best known for her biography of her husband, the critic Kenneth Tynan, died yesterday at King Edward VII Hospital in London. She was 57 and lived in London.
        The cause was cancer, said Leon Wieseltier, the literary editor of The New Republic, a friend and the executor of Mrs. Tynan's estate.
        Mrs. Tynan was a journalist, essayist and fiction writer whose works include the novel "The Summer Aeroplane" (1975) and the screenplay and novel titled "Agatha" (1979), a fictional speculation on the midlife disappearance of Agatha Christie.
        But it was "The Life of Kenneth Tynan" (1987), an unflinching portrait of the influential English drama critic to whom she was married for 13 years, that was the high point of Mrs. Tynan's literary career. "It was such a weird thing, to write about your husband," she said at the time. "I was a passionate sleuth, torn between being the outsider and insider."
        The book, however, was widely praised for its objectivity. Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Benedict Nightingale described it as "almost frighteningly judicious," adding that Mrs. Tynan "somehow manages to fulfill, perhaps even surpass, the obligations of a good biographer."
        The daughter of Matthew Halton, a Canadian journalist, Mrs. Tynan was reared in Canada and England and attended Oxford University. She worked as a researcher for Newsweek and as a reporter for The Observer and The Sunday Times in London. Her marriage to Mr. Tynan, her second, began in 1967 and lasted until his death, in 1980.
        Mrs. Tynan was also the co-editor of "Profiles" (1990), selected essays by her husband, and the editor of "Kenneth Tynan: Letters," which came out in England last fall (Weidenfeld & Nicolson) and will be published in the United States by Random House in the spring.
        She is survived by a daughter, Roxana, of Los Angeles, and a son, Matthew, of London, from her marriage to Mr. Tynan; her mother, Jean Halton of Ottawa, and a brother, David, of Washington.
      