
        Sylvia Bernstein Seaman, a writer and one of the last active members of the suffragist movement, died on Sunday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 94.
        The cause was breast cancer, her family said. She published a book about that disease 30 years ago, "Always a Woman: What Every Woman Should Know About Breast Cancer," the first by someone outside the medical profession. "It was considered daring at the time," she later said, "but it changed attitudes, I think."
        She became a confirmed suffragist in high school and first marched for the right to vote as a student in 1915. While in college, she took part in the parades of August 1920 celebrating the 19th Amendment that secured women's suffrage nationwide.
        In 1970, she was one of five veterans of 1920 chosen to lead the 50th anniversary parade on Fifth Avenue.
        She was in the lead again in a 1980 march marking the 60th anniversary of victory. She made her final public appearance last August with an address on feminism and women in American history when the New York chapter of the National Organization for Women marked the 74th anniversary.
        Sylvia Bernstein was born in Manhattan and graduated from Cornell University. She taught high school English in New York City before turning to writing.
        With her Cornell roommate, Frances Schwartz, she wrote novels under the name Francis Sylvin. They chose a male pseudonym because they thought that female authors were not taken seriously.
        In one novel, "Miracle Father" (1952), a couple produced a child by artificial insemination. It was republished in 1968 as "Test-Tube Father."
        Mrs. Seaman underwent a radical mastectomy in 1955, an experience that led her to write "Always a Woman," published in 1965. It was a rarely discussed topic, which she also wrote about for magazines and newspapers.
        In the 1970's, she resumed writing travel pieces and humor, including her last book, "How to Be a Jewish Grandmother" (1979). Travel was her avocation, and she visited more than 100 countries.
        Her personal and professional papers are in the collection of the Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America at Radcliffe College.
        She is survived by her husband of 69 years, William Seaman; two sons, Gideon, of Manhattan and Jonathan, of Brooklyn, eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      