
        Rochelle Pittman, whose legal battle in a tainted blood scandal led to a continuing national inquiry into the state of Canada's blood supplies, died Wednesday at her home in Toronto. She was 57.
        The cause was complications from AIDS, said her son Tom Pittman.
        Mrs. Pittman is credited with putting a human face on the struggle for redress waged by the more than 1,000 people in Canada who contracted H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, through tainted blood and blood products.
        "She made a difference in a lot of people's lives," said her lawyer, Ken Arenson. "She got calls from perfect strangers asking her how to deal with this  or that problem."
        Her husband, Ken Pittman, a store chain executive, died in 1990 of H.I.V.-related pneumonia without knowing he was infected. He had received a tainted transfusion after cardiac surgery at Toronto General Hospital in 1984.
        Dr. Stanley Bain, the family doctor, knew that Mr. Pittman was infected, but  never told the couple because, as the doctor later testified, he feared the information would send Mr. Pittman into a depression. He also said he had mistakenly believed that the couple was no longer having sex.
        Five months after her husband died, Mrs. Pittman, who had worked as a jewelry saleswoman in Toronto, was told she also had the virus.
        At a news conference in January 1992 at the Ontario legislature, Mrs. Pittman, a tiny, stylish, retiring woman, announced the start of what became a rocky three-year legal battle for redress.
        In March last year an Ontario judge awarded her $375,000 in compensation. Dr. Bain, a former President of the Ontario College of Physicians and Surgeons, was  held 40 percent liable. The Canadian Red Cross and Toronto General Hospital split the remaining amount equally.
        In addition, the same institution Dr. Bain had headed found him guilty of misconduct and suspended him from the practice of medicine for two months.
        In her decision, an Ontario judge, Susan Lang, wrote that had Mr. Pittman been told, he might have lived two more years and avoided infecting Mrs. Pittman.
        For Canada it was a heart-wrenching story, followed in all its intricate twists on newspaper front pages and on national television. At a news conference at the time of the award, Mrs. Pittman observed that while she was happy with the judgment, "No amount of money can compensate me and my family for the loss of a husband and a father. Nor will it change the fact that I will likely experience the same fate."
        Her son Tom said that over the last four to six weeks her health went into a  significant decline. "Last Thursday she announced she didn't want to fight any longer. She was determined to have the end come on quickly. But she lingered until Wednesday. The last day she was in a sort of coma."
        He said she had been reconciled to the cruelty of her fate. "Anger and bitterness were there, but they didn't consume her in the end. She rose above that."
        Mrs. Pittman is survived by her four children: Tom, of Toronto; Mrs. Kelly Blackwood of Kincardine, Ontario; Mark Pittman of Newmarket, Ontario; and Mrs. Kathy Fenton of Toronto; her mother, Mrs. Evelyn Borden, of Toronto; a sister, Mrs. Gail Stanzel of Toronto; and a brother, Dave Winaut, of Liverpool, Nova Scotia, and six grandchildren.
      