
        Laura Scott Taylor, the co-founder and retired principal of the Concord Baptist Elementary School in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, died on Sunday at Kings County Hospital Center. Mrs. Taylor, who lived in Crown Heights, was 79.
        Mrs. Taylor was fatally injured when she was hit by a truck last Friday while crossing a street in Crown Heights.
        For 32 years, Mrs. Taylor served as the unsalaried principal of the Concord Baptist Elementary School, which she established in 1960 with her husband, the Rev. Gardner Taylor, now pastor emeritus of the Concord Baptist Church of Christ.
        Dr. Taylor, who had been a member of the New York City Board of Education, said the school was founded because many parents felt their children were being "intellectually butchered" by the public school system. "The kids were finished before their lives had started," he said.
        The school emphasizes reading and extensive instruction in black history and culture. "It means a great deal to know Negroes are making a success in every phase of life," Mrs. Taylor said in 1967. "For these children to get a good opinion of themselves is very important. They should know that those who want to make it can."
        Begun with 25 pupils in grades one through six, the school reached an enrollment of 130 pupils in seven years.
        "We have proved that Negroes can learn to do what anybody else can do," Mrs. Taylor said then. "There is something radically wrong with the public school system if our kids can't read."
        Today, the school has an enrollment of 150 in its six grades.
        Mrs. Taylor, who was born in Cleveland, grew up in Oberlin, Ohio, and graduated in 1937 from Oberlin College. In 1940, after teaching in South Carolina, she married Dr. Taylor, whom she had met at the Mount Zion Baptist Church in Oberlin while he was a student at the Oberlin Graduate School of Theology.
        The Taylors moved to New Orleans and Baton Rouge, La., and came to Brooklyn in 1948, when Dr. Taylor was named pastor of the Concord Baptist Church. He retired in 1990 as the dean of black pastors in the United States. In 1952, when the church was destroyed by fire, Mrs. Taylor led its women in raising hundreds of thousands of dollars for the construction of a replacement.
        Besides her husband, Mrs. Taylor is survived by her daughter, Martha LaCroix; a brother, Eugene Scott; a sister, Elizabeth Taylor; a sister by adoption, Ruby Harris, and a grandson.
      