
        Julia Adler Foshko, the last surviving member of a generation of Adlers who began their theatrical careers on stage with their parents in the Yiddish theater, died yesterday at Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. She was 97 and  had been a resident of the Actors Fund Home in Englewood for many years.
        Although she was eventually eclipsed by her younger siblings, Stella and Luther, Miss Adler, the middle of the five children of Jacob and Sarah Adler, the founding stars of the American Yiddish theater, had her moments in the spotlight.
        Among other Broadway roles in the 1920's, she played Shylock's daughter, Jessica, in the David Warfield production of "The Merchant of Venice," and was cast by David Belasco as the star of "Rosa Machree."
        Her last Broadway appearance was in the 1939 revival of the Clifford Odets play "Awake and Sing!" in a part originated by her sister Stella in the initial  production four years earlier. "Julia Adler," wrote Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times, "improves a little upon Stella Adler's playing."
        She later toured with her brother Luther in "Tovarich," which appeared at the City Center in 1952.
        Like her brothers and sisters -- including two older full siblings, Frances and Jay, and three still older half siblings, Abe, Charles and Celia Adler, born from her father's two previous marriages and an intervening liason in Russia --  Miss Adler began her career early.
        The Adler children were generally thrust on stage as toddlers, but Julia, who was born on July 4, 1897, almost broke the record. According to family legend, she arrived moments after her mother had completed a matinee performance in Philadelphia.
        There were a lot of Adler mouths to feed, but, fortunately, there were a lot  of parts to go around.
        In 1930, the family, including Julia and her mother, Sarah, took 9 of the 10  roles of a George Jessel production, "Millions." The Adlers graciously allowed the director, Joseph Schoenhold, to play the 10 part.
        Miss Adler's older siblings, Frances and Jay, died many years ago. Luther, died in 1984 at the age of 81, and Stella, who operated a celebrated Method acting school in New York City, died in 1992 at the age of 91.
        Miss Adler, whose husband, Joseph Foshko, the artist, died many years ago, is survived by a daughter, Judy Sure, of Nantucket; three grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      