
        Alison Frantz, one of the foremost archeological photographers of Greek sites and antiquities, died on Feb. 1 at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. She was 91.
        Ms. Frantz died of injuries received on Jan. 27 when she was hit by a truck near her home in Princeton.
        Ms. Frantz's interest in Greece began in her youth in Princeton and her interest in photography with the gift of a camera from her brother.
        When she took over as the official photographer for the excavations in the Athenian agora, the civic center of the ancient city, she carried with her a Ph.D. in classics from Columbia University and an undergraduate degree in the same area from Smith College.
        She first visited Greece as a fellow at the American Academy in Rome, after graduation from Smith in 1924.
        After study at Princeton on the classical world of early Christendom and Byzantium, she returned to Greece with an appointment as a fellow of the American School. Five years later, she joined the archeological staff at the agora, and in 1939 was made its official photographer, a position she kept until 1964.
        The assignment was interrupted by the war, during which she worked for the Office of Strategic Services as an adviser on Greece. After the war, she worked for three years for the State Department as a cultural attache in the American Embassy in Athens.
        Ms. Frantz's photographs were used to illustrate a number of publications, including Gisela Richter's "Archaic Gravestones of Attica" (Phaidon, 1961); Bernard Ashmole's "Olympia: The Sculptures of the Temple of Zeus" (Phaidon, 1971), and Martin Robertson's "Parthenon Frieze" (Phaidon, 1975).
        She also supplied photographs for Joseph Alsop's "From the Silent Earth: A Report on the Greek Bronze Age" (Harper & Row, 1964).
        She was the author of "Church of the Holy Apostles" (American School of Classical Studies Press, 1971) and "The Athenian Agora, vol. XXIV, Late Antiquity, A.D. 267-700" (American School of Classical Studies Press, 1988).
      