
        Loyce Houlton, a leader in American regional dance and a choreographer whose works were performed by companies in the United States and Europe, died on Tuesday at United Hospital in St. Paul. She was 70 and lived in Minneapolis.
        The cause was a stroke, said her daughter, Lise Houlton Gilliland, a former member of American Ballet Theater and the Stuttgart Ballet.
        Mrs. Houlton favored a rhapsodic choreographic style that combined ballet with various modern-dance techniques. She created more than 90 works, many of them to contemporary music, and her Minnesota Dance Theater became known for its experimental productions. Ballets by her have also been presented by Dance Theater of Harlem, the Pennsylvania Ballet and the Deutsche Oper Ballet of Berlin.
        A tiny and perpetually restless woman, Mrs. Houlton liked to say to students: "Explode! Be voracious in space." Yet for the last two decades of her life, she was in chronic ill health. Undaunted, she once said in an interview that her illness had significantly changed her choreography. "I have more courage now," she declared.
        Mrs. Houlton, a native of Duluth, Minn., studied dance at Carleton College and New York University and at several New York ballet and modern-dance schools. After settling in Minneapolis, she founded the Contemporary Dance Playhouse in 1962; seven years later, it was renamed Minnesota Dance Theater. Financial problems in 1986 forced the company to disband. But in the last few years, Mrs. Houlton had attempted to reorganize it, and last summer, it revived two of her important works: her version of Stravinsky's "Rite of Spring," and "Ancient Air," to music by George Crumb, an American composer she particularly admired.
        In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Dr. William Houlton; three sons, Laif, Joel and Andrew, and four grandchildren, all of Minneapolis, and two sisters, Jewell Kraemer of Wausau, Wis., and Ardeth Becher of St. Paul.
      