
        Claire Sterling, an American author and correspondent based in Italy, who was known for her writings on terrorism, assassination and crime, died yesterday in a hospital in Arezzo, Italy. She was 76 and lived in outside of Cortona, near Arezzo.
        She had cancer of the colon, her husband said.
        Mrs. Sterling was based in Italy for more than 30 years and traveled widely. Her most recent book, "Thieves' World: The Threat of the New Global Network of Organized Crime" (1994, Simon & Schuster), was praised by Stephen Handelman, of the Harriman Institute of Advanced Soviet Studies at Columbia University, as making "a significant contribution to post-cold-war debate" by affirming "that the growing interdependence among nation-states and financial institutions has made it easier for crime syndicates to cooperate across national boundaries."
        In an earlier book, "Octopus: the Long Reach of the International Sicilian Mafia" (1990), she examined the Sicilian Mafia and charged gangster-chieftains based in Palermo with creating a multinational empire with the United States as its longtime main target.
        In her 1984 book "The Time of the Assassins," Mrs. Sterling examined the attempt by a Turk, Mehmet Ali Agca, to kill Pope John Paul II in 1981. She contended that Mr. Agca had "come to Rome as a professional hit man, hired by a Bulgarian spy ring." She presented what she called "massive proof that the Soviet Union and its surrogates have provided the weapons, training and sanctuary for a worldwide terror network aimed at the destabilization of Western democratic society."
        Mrs. Sterling's contention about a Bulgarian role in the attack was disputed, but writing in 1991, she maintained that Italian courts in 1988 had "expressed their moral certainty that Bulgaria's secret service was behind the papal shooting."
        She also attracted wide attention with her 1981 book "The Terror Network," which traced connections among terrorist groups around the globe. William Abrahams, who edited the book for Holt, Rinehart & Winston, said that while she was writing it, the Italian Government posted a guard at her house to protect her.
        A decade later, the New York Times columnist Anthony Lewis reported that William J. Casey, the Director of Central Intelligence in the Reagan Administration, had held up a copy of "The Terror Network" before a group of official intelligence experts and had "said contemptuously that he had learned more from it than from all of them."
        Mrs. Sterling's first book was "The Masaryk Case" (1969), about Jan Masaryk, the Czechoslovak Foreign Minister who was reported to have leaped to his death in 1948 from a window of his Prague apartment. She concluded that he had been killed by Soviet or Czechoslovak Stalinists to keep him from defecting to the West.
        In her decades abroad, she also wrote articles for The New York Times, Atlantic Monthly, The Reporter magazine, Life, Reader's Digest, Harper's, The New Republic, The Washington Post, International Herald Tribune and The Financial Times.
        Mrs. Sterling was born Claire Neikind in Queens, received a bachelor's degree in economics from Brooklyn College, and worked for a time as a union organizer among electrical workers.
        In 1945 she received a master's degree from the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism, which awarded her a Pulitzer Traveling Scholarship.
        She went on to work in Rome for what she described in a 1981 interview as "a fly-by-night American news agency." She learned Italian, and when the agency went out of business, she returned to the United States and joined the staff of The Reporter magazine, which began publication in early 1949.
        Mrs. Sterling recalled that when she applied for the Reporter job, Max Ascoli, the magazine's Italian-born publisher and editor, said, "If anybody's going to write about Italy around here, it's me." So because of her union experience, she became the labor editor.
        In 1951, she married Tom Sterling, a writer. She remembered that "Max Ascoli's wedding present to me was a six-month assignment in Rome."
        Mrs. Sterling's six-month assignment lasted 17 years, ending only when The Reporter ceased publication in 1968. By then, the Sterlings were accustomed to life in Italy, where Mr. Sterling had written some of his more than a dozen books. So Mrs. Sterling, keeping Italy as her base, began writing her Masaryk book.
        She is survived by her husband; a son, Luke, of Cortona; a daughter, Abigail Vazquez of San Francisco; two grandchildren, and a sister, Ethel Braun of Manhattan.
      