
        Myra Pollack Sadker, a Washington educator and writer who charted sexual bias in the nation's classrooms, died on Saturday at Georgetown Medical Center. She was 52 and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        The cause was complications from a bone marrow transplant for breast cancer, said a spokesman for American University, where she was a professor and former dean of the school of education.
        Dr. Sadker's most recent work was "Failing at Fairness: How America's Schools Cheat Girls" (Scribners, 1994). It was written in collaboration with her husband, David M. Sadker, a fellow professor at American's school of education. The couple had first studied the subject of sexual bias when they were graduate students together.
        With a decade's worth of research, "Failing at Fairness" sought to document that girls' educations were inferior to those of boys. The reason, the authors concluded, was the conscious or subconscious sexism of teachers who spend more time interacting with boys.
        Teachers, according to the book, call on boys more, make more substantive comments on their work, and praise and goad them more. The result is that over time girls tend to lose self-esteem and do more poorly in standardized tests.
        Dr. Sadker's research was widely reported in newspapers and magazines around the country. It also led to many invitations for her to appear on national television and radio programs.
        Myra Pollack Sadker was born in Portland, Me., and graduated from Boston University. She received a master's degree at Harvard University and a doctorate in education at the University of Massachusetts. She taught at junior and senior high schools in Massachusetts and Thailand before joining the faculty of American University in 1973.
        In graduate school, the Sadkers noticed that there seemed to be subtle differences in the education they received in the same classrooms and studying the same books. The experience started them in their career as a husband-and-wife team examining sexual bias in schools through research based on transcripts of classroom interactions, textbooks, surveys and polls.
        Dr. Sadker was the author or co-author of six books and scores of articles on sexism, teacher education and children's books. Her work was recognized this year with the Eleanor Roosevelt Award of the American Association of University Women.
        In addition to her husband, Dr. Sadker is survived by two daughters, Robin and Jacqueline; a brother, Dr. Murray Pollack of Potomac, Md., and her father, Louis Pollack of Boca Raton, Fla.
      