
        Claire K. Tholl, whose recommendation to preserve more than 200 stone houses led New Jersey and the Federal Government to include many of them on a list of protected historic buildings, died on Monday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. She was 69 and lived in Upper Saddle River, N.J.
        She suffered a lengthy illness, her family said.
        Mrs. Tholl was trustee emeritus of the Bergen County Historical Society, a title created for her. She also had been a member of the county's Historic Site Advisory Board since 1969. It was for the board that she conducted a survey of sandstone structures dating as far back as the 1600's.
        "The board decided that our stone houses were being threatened with demolition, so funding was acquired and she did the stone house survey in 1979 and 1980," Ruth Van Wagoner, director of the county Office of Cultural and Historic Affairs, said yesterday. "More than 200 were placed on the New Jersey Register of Historic Places, and about 190 were placed on the National Register."
        Among the buildings shielded as a result of the survey by Mrs. Tholl was the 282-year-old Steuben House, a mansion of Bergen County sandstone in Dutch Colonial style in River Edge. The mansion was used as a headquarters by George Washington in 1780 and was given to Gen. Friedrich von Steuben as a reward after the Revolutionary War as a reward for being Washington's drillmaster. It was saved by the state from demolition in 1928 through eminent-domain proceedings.
        A native of Hackensack, Claire Koch Tholl studied engineering and naval designing at Stevens Institute of Technology and graduated in architecture from Cooper Union in 1947.
        She began her historic research in 1944, after working as a draftsman and in boat design, technical illustration and cartography. She later added architectural photography to her interests.
        By 1960 she was studying old houses. She advised the restorers of Steuben House, Old Stone Church in Saddle River and Ringwood Manor in Ringwood, among many others.
        She also was knowledgeable about early cooking methods and utensils and the kind of foods favored in the past, and the farms that produced them. For the Bicentennial year 1976 she wrote about the foods of the past in the introduction of an illustrated collection of regional and historic recipes.
        Mrs. Tholl is survived by two daughters, Lisanne Fogel of Bellingham, Mass., and Andrea Dente of Vernon, N.J.; two sons, Robert, of Morristown, N.J., and James, of Queensbury, N.Y., and five grandchildren. Her husband, Edward, an architect, died in 1967.
      