
        Sylvia Laibman Horwitz, a world traveler, an author and a founder of two schools, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 83.
        The cause was cancer, said her son, Paul Horwitz.
        When the guns stopped firing in Europe in 1945, Mrs. Horwitz was part of one of the first boatloads of American civilians headed for Italy to join spouses on special assignment on the war-ravaged continent. Her husband, Louis Horwitz, a social worker, was working with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Agency in the resettlement of refugees.
        She quickly found that the disarray of postwar Rome extended to newcomers as well as to survivors. There was no school for English-speaking children, so she helped start one and served as its first director. The Overseas School of Rome is still in operation. She had already helped found the Downtown Community School, a private elementary school in Greenwich Village, in the early 1940's.
        Her tenure in Rome also kindled an interest in archeology.
        When her husband was posted in Tunisia, she began to explore the past of her new home and the site of ancient Carthage. Study there and later in Tiberias inspired her third book, "The Find of a Lifetime: Sir Arthur Evans and the Discovery of Knossos" (Viking, 1980). It celebrated the discoveries of one of history's greatest amateur archeologists, Arthur Evans, who uncovered evidence of a Minoan civilization in Crete dating back to 3500 B.C.
        She also wrote the books "Toulouse-Lautrec: His World" (Harper, 1973) and "Francisco Goya: Painter of Kings and Demons" (Harper, 1974).
        She was born in Newcastle, Pa., and grew up in Cleveland. She graduated from Case Western University in 1932 and moved to Manhattan, where she was a copywriter. Later, she was a teacher at the New School for Social Research.
        Her husband died in 1979. In addition to her son, of Concord, Mass., she is survived by a sister, Natalie Barr of Lamoine, Me., and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 26, 1995, Monday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Sylvia Laibman Horwitz of Manhattan, an author and founder of two schools who died on June 18, misidentified the college she attended. Mrs. Horwitz graduated in 1932 from Flora Stone Mather College for Women, not from Case Western Reserve University. The women's college later became part of a university that helped form Case Western Reserve University in 1967.
      