
        Ludmilla B. Turkevich, an expert in Russian language and literature who was the first woman to teach at Princeton and then spent 18 years as chairwoman of the Russian department at Douglass College of Rutgers University, died on Friday at the Princeton Medical Center. She was 85 and lived at the Monroe retirement village in Jamesburg, N.J.
        Her family said the cause of death was respiratory failure.
        She had the academic credentials, including degrees from New York University and Bryn Mawr and a doctorate from Columbia. She had been speaking and reading Russian with an informed passion since she was a child and had added Spanish as a sub-specialty. And she had experience as a teacher at the University of Kansas and at Douglass College, in New Brunswick, N.J.
        Yet if there had not been a war on in 1944, and if Princeton had not found itself without a single Russian teacher at a time when there was a sudden, almost panicky upsurge in interest in the Soviet Union, it is doubtful that the university would have allowed the former Ludmilla Buketoff of New Britain, Conn., to be more than a faculty wife, the bride of John Turkevich, a professor of chemistry.
        Even after Princeton did allow her on the faculty in 1944, the university, which would wait a quarter-century more before admitting women as students, insisted on maintaining a certain distinction. During the 17 years Mrs. Turkevich taught Russian and Spanish literature and a popular course on the modern European novel, she was relegated to the position of lecturer, subject to annual contract renewals.
        When Rutgers offered in 1961 to make her a full professor at Douglass, its women's division, she accepted, and spent the next 18 years dazzling students like her own daughter, Tamar Skvir, who recalled her mother yesterday as a mesmerizing lecturer who made Pushkin, Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy come alive.
        Professor Turkevich, who also held research positions at the Institute for Advanced Study and the Center for Theological Inquiry at Princeton and served as the president of the American Association of Teachers of Slavic and Eastern European Languages, wrote widely on Russian literature.
        Her books include "Cervantes in Russia" (1950), "Masterpieces in Russian Literature" (1964) and "Spanish Literature in Russia and the Soviet Union 1735-1964" (1967).
        She and her husband were also instrumental in the translation and publication of the "Guide to Russian Scientific Literature" in the 1940's and wrote the textbook "Russian for the Scientist" (1959).
        Professor Turkevich also served as a specialist in American education at the United States exhibit in Moscow in 1959.
        In addition to her husband and her daughter Tamar, she is survived by another daughter, Marina Naumann of Norwich, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      