
        Mary Bingham, the matriarch of the Bingham newspaper empire, died suddenly in Louisville, Ky., on Tuesday evening. She was 90 and lived in Glenview, 15 minutes outside Louisville, on the family estate.
        Mrs. Bingham, a philanthropist and civic leader and the widow of Barry Bingham Sr., was delivering a speech at a dinner in her honor when she collapsed. She was pronounced dead of cardiac arrest at Norton Hospital.
        At the dinner at the Hyatt Regency hotel to raise money for the de Paul School in Louisville, Mrs. Bingham had been toasted by Gov. Brereton Jones; Jon Jory, artistic director of the Actors Theater of Louisville; other Kentucky dignitaries, and her daughter Eleanor Bingham Miller.
        Before delivering her prepared speech, Mrs. Bingham said she was so flattered by the event that "the best thing would be for a big pink cloud to come down and take me away." She then spoke about the need for civic responsibility and asked for support of the Louisville Free Public Library.
        In the part of her talk that remained undelivered, she quoted Pericles as saying that an Athenian "who did not acquaint himself with and took no part in public affairs was regarded not as unambitious, but as a man of no consequence whatever."
        All her life, she was a most enthusiastic participant in public and cultural affairs. Governor Jones said that with Mrs. Bingham's death, "Kentucky has lost one of its most caring and productive citizens."
        A distinguished, articulate woman, Mrs. Bingham was for more than 60 years a major presence on the Louisville scene. Mr. and Mrs. Bingham, always known as "the Binghams," were great hosts, especially at Kentucky Derby time, when their invitations were among the most coveted.
        Together with Mr. Bingham, who died in 1988, Mrs. Bingham was a generous supporter of the arts and of educational and social programs. She was a strong environmentalist and also led a drive to send book mobiles to rural Kentucky.
        After her husband died, she took over as the head of the family foundation, the Mary and Barry Bingham Sr. Fund, which gave $59 million to a wide variety of institutions. Last fall, the Actors Theater of Louisville opened the Bingham Theater. The beneficence of the Binghams is one reason Louisville is such a prosperous cultural community.
        In 1986, a bitter family conflict engulfed the Binghams, leading to the sale of their media empire, the cornerstone of which was The Louisville Courier-Journal, a Pulitzer Prize-winning newspaper known for its liberal politics and socially conscious positions. Barry Bingham Sr. had been publisher of the newspaper after his father, Robert Bingham, and, in turn, he had been succeeded by his son Barry Bingham Jr.
        After Barry Bingham Jr. and his sisters, Eleanor and Sallie Bingham, were locked in a feud over control of the company, Barry Bingham Sr. decided to sell. The battle and the sale of the paper to the Gannett chain became front-page news throughout the country. Later, several books were written about the conflict and the family itself, including a memoir by Sallie that was critical of her parents.
        Behind the scenes, Mrs. Bingham had been a force at the newspaper. She was a vice president and director and wrote editorials while her husband was overseas during World War II. For 26 years, until 1968, she was the editor of the book review section.
        Mrs. Bingham was born Mary Caperton on Dec. 24, 1904, in Richmond, and as a young woman, she acted with Richmond's Little Theater. It was while she was a classics major at Radcliffe College that she met her husband, then a student at Harvard University. They were both involved in collegiate dramatics.
        After graduating from Radcliffe in 1928, she spent a year studying in Greece on a fellowship. In 1931, she and Barry Bingham were married. They had five children, including two sons, Worth and Jonathan, who died in accidents.
        The Binghams were active in Democratic politics and would, as Mrs. Bingham said, "get together with liberal friends on election night to listen to the results in sympathetic company."
        When her son became publisher of the paper, he exchanged houses with his parents, as was the family tradition. The parents moved into the so-called Little House on the family estate, an Italianate villa where Mrs. Bingham continued to live after her husband's death.
        In addition to her son and daughters, Mrs. Bingham is survived by six grandsons, four granddaughters and a great-granddaughter.
      