
        Tessie O'Shea, a Tony-winning music-hall singer and actress with a bouncy stage personality that cheerfully capitalized on her girth, died yesterday at a nursing home in Leesburg, Fla. She was 82 and lived in East Lake Weir, Fla.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said Kathleen Wampola, a friend.
        Miss O'Shea was born in Cardiff, Wales, where her father was a newsdealer, and began singing and dancing as a child. She went on her first music-hall tour at the age of 7 and three years later, after appearing in a starring role at the Bristol Hippodrome, she toured variety theaters throughout Britain. At 15, while singing as a summer replacement in a Blackpool revue, she performed "Two-Ton Tessie from Tennessee," a song that became her anthem. "I've always been fat, but I'm limber," she once told a newspaper reporter.
        Ms. O'Shea was a headliner with such British revues as "On With the Show" and "High Time," which went to the London Palladium in the 1940's. Such was her fame that in 1944, a limousine picked her up after a show at the Palladium and whisked her to Windsor Castle, where she sang for Princess Elizabeth and Princess Margaret. She performed for British and American troops during the war, and when it ended she produced "Tessie's Big Show" and "Tess and Bill," which became a BBC radio series.
        She also appeared in several British films, including "The Way Ahead" (1945) in which she played herself, "London Town" (1946) and "The Shiralee" (1957).
        Miss O'Shea made her stage debut in the United States in 1963 as a Cockney fish-and-chips peddler in the musical "The Girl Who Came to Supper." Her 12 minutes onstage, singing a medley of four songs by Noel Coward, was a show-stopper that won her a Tony Award that year as best supporting actress. It also led to appearances on the Ed Sullivan and "Tonight" shows. She was a regular on the CBS variety series "The Entertainers" in 1964. In 1969, she received an Emmy nomination for her role as a music-hall entertainer in "Dr. Jekyl and Mr. Hyde."
        Miss O'Shea appeared in the Broadway shows "A Time for Singing" (1966), "Something's Afoot" (1976) and the flop "Broadway Follies" (1981). In the film "The Russians Are Coming, the Russians Are Coming," she played a prim Bostonian telephone operator. She also appeared in the film "Bedknobs and Broomsticks" (1971).
        No immediate family members survive.
      