
        Holly Harp, the California designer who went from a Sunset Boulevard sensation to a darling of Fifth Avenue salons, died on Monday at Cedars Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 55.
        The cause of death was cancer, said her fiance, Mark Buchman.
        Mrs. Harp, who captivated Hollywood with a rich hippie look in the 1960's and enthralled New York with soft clinging designs, was nominated for Coty awards two times.
        But Mr. Buchman said on Friday in reporting her death that Mrs. Harp once described herself as a "counterculturalist," an apt description for a woman who began her career translating the clothes of the flower children into fashion for counterculture heroines.
        When rock stars like Janis Joplin and Grace Slick began exchanging jeans for Mrs. Harp's fringed vests and tie-dyed velvet dresses, the Holly's Harp shop that she opened on Sunset Boulevard in 1968 became the center of a new style.
        Her husband at the time, Jim, described the fashions, which included painted jersey, silk and chiffon dresses, and hip-hugger bell bottoms made from old draperies, as "somewhere between here and Mars."
        Mrs. Harp came down to earth a bit after 1973, when she began selling to Fifth Avenue stores like Henri Bendel and Bergdorf Goodman, whose fourth-floor Holly Harp shop showed her latest collection of $1,500 evening dresses three weeks ago.
        But for all their initial counterculture flamboyance, the designs from the beginning included soft flowing chiffon dresses. Mrs. Harp had a disarming explanation for how she achieved that soft romantic look. "I took the construction out," she said.
        For all the comparative elegance of her sensuous body-hugging evening dresses, Mrs. Harp's designs always had an edge, sometimes literally. In 1977, when one bright red creation reminded her of a flame, she proceeded to enhance the effect, taking a blowtorch and charring the garment's edges.
        "I'm not trying to do tasteful little uniforms," she said in 1988. "Being dressed in perfect taste is very aging."
        Mrs. Harp, a size 6 who designed for her own 5-foot-4-inch frame, had no patience for the presumed restrictions of age. As she put it when she appeared at an interview at the age of 47 wearing a short lame dress with glitter hose: "I still have a sexy little girl in me that won't quit."
        Mrs. Harp was born in Buffalo and studied design at North Texas State University, where she met and married Mr. Harp, an English instructor. Her boutique became such a success that he abandoned his academic career. They divorced in 1980, but remained business partners.
        Surviving are a son, Tom, of Los Angeles; two sisters, Sarah Bozzola of Orange, Conn., and Elizabeth Horn of Buffalo, and a brother, Thomas Speller of Buffalo.
      