
        Vita R. Ostrander, a former president of the American Association of Retired Persons who helped make the health care system a major national issue a decade before last year's debate on overhauling it, died on Tuesday at Crawford Long Hospital in Atlanta. She was 72 and lived in suburban Decatur.
        Her family said she had a heart attack while recovering from back surgery.
        Mrs. Ostrander was a member of the A.A.R.P.'s board from 1976 to 1988 and its president for two of those years, 1984-86. She had earned those unpaid positions through her volunteer work in Georgia as an advocate for the elderly, and during her dozen years on the board gained a reputation as an effective advocate both inside and outside the huge organization, which now claims 33 million members.
        "She really brought us into health care," the current president, Eugene Lehrmann, said yesterday, recalling that she had often built support for her views even as she formed them, in informal chats with fellow board members.
        When the association, under her prodding, spoke out in favor of fee controls and a combination of private insurance and Government subsidies to pay for prescription drugs and catastrophic illnesses, it was often Mrs. Ostrander who did the speaking.
        In an organization that likes to precycle as well as recycle its executive talent, Mrs. Ostrander was a representative at news conferences during her two years as president-elect, testified at Congressional hearings during her two years as president and continued to speak out during her two years as "immediate past president," an official association position.
        Not one to shrink from confrontation, she once told a meeting of the American Medical Association that high costs had created a form of rationing of health care. And when she served on a Federal advisory panel that made only a vague reference to a need for Government subsidies in a report stressing the role of private insurance in protecting Americans against catastrophic medical costs, Mrs. Ostrander issued a stinging dissent, chiding her fellow panelists for obscuring a need for Government participation.
        A native of Utica, N.Y., where her father operated a bakery, Mrs. Ostrander, whose maiden name was Romano, received a nursing degree from the University of Buffalo and spent 10 years as a Red Cross executive before settling in Atlanta and becoming a full-time volunteer on issues involving the elderly.
        She is survived by her husband, Gladding, a retired Red Cross executive; a daughter, Sylvia Lucas of Columbia, S.C., and three grandchildren.
      