
        Esther Rome, co-author of the best seller "Our Bodies, Ourselves" and women's health advocate for more than 25 years, died at her home in Somerville, Mass., on Saturday. She was 49.
        The cause was breast cancer, said a friend, Judith Norsigian.
        Ms. Rome argued that issues of cosmetic surgery, eating disorders, body image and sexually transmitted diseases as they affected women belonged in the social- and economic-policy arena as much as in the medical world. She was instrumental in fostering the public debate over toxic shock syndrome and its link to the use of tampons in the early 1980's.
        A decade later, she served as a consumer advocate on the Food and Drug Administration committee that investigated the potential hazards of silicone breast implants. The committee's work led to a partial ban on implants and Ms. Rome led a support group for women with implants who had health problems.
        Until days before her death, she was working on her latest book, "Risking Health for Love," with her co-author, Jane Hyman, that examines the health risks of choices that women make, covering breast implants, sexually transmitted diseases and domestic violence.
        Ms. Rome was among 12 young professional women who were not medical experts but who were concerned about health issues who gathered in a lounge at M.I.T. in 1969 to exchange the information about doctors and other health topics. The group later formed the Boston Women's Health Book Collective.
        A year later, the women published a collection of papers challenging long-held approaches to medical treatment of women. The papers addressed a range of topics including childbirth and rape. Called "Women and Their Bodies," it was a 75-cent newsprint guide to the physical and psychological makeup of women. In 1971 they changed the name to "Our Bodies, Ourselves" and the book inspired a grass-roots, consumer-advocacy movement, becoming a bible to a generation of young women.
        In college dormitories and apartments across the country groups of female baby-boomers, hungry for the kind of information their mothers did not always have, gathered to discuss the book. They formed support groups and grappled with women's health issues made more immediate by the availability of birth-control pills and the legalization of abortion.
        The book was attacked as pornographic by the Moral Majority and other conservative groups and it was banned from some schools. By 1973 it had sold more than 350,000 copies. Now in its third edition, it has sold nearly three million copies in the United States and has been translated into 14 foreign languages, including Hebrew, Swedish and Greek, said a spokeswoman for its publisher, Simon & Schuster.
        Ms. Rome was born in Norwich, Conn. She graduated from Brandeis University in 1966 and received a master's degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Education in 1968.
        She is survived by her husband, Nathan; two sons, Judah and Micah, both of Somerville; two brothers, Aaron Seidman of Brookline and Abe Seidman of Beverly Hills, Calif., and a sister, Sara Levine of Dallas.
      