
        Dr. Beatrix T. Gardner, a psychologist who with her husband, Dr. R. Allen Gardner, taught a chimpanzee sign language in the 1960's and the 1970's, died while traveling with her husband in Padua, Italy, on June 5. She was 61 and lived in Reno.
        Reached yesterday at the University of Nevada in Reno, where he and his wife had worked as a team, her husband said the cause of death was a central nervous infection. He reported her death this week.
        In the 1970's the couple announced that by raising a chimpanzee, Washoe, in the manner of a human child they had taught the ape to communicate using signs similar to those widely used by deaf human beings.
        Since then, other researchers have also reported success in training chimpanzees to communicate without depending on speech, as by pushing specific buttons on a keyboard. At the time of the Gardner announcement, Dr. Peter R. Marler of Rockefeller University termed their work "brilliant and exciting."
        That such animals actually learned a "language" has, however, been challenged. Among the skeptics is Dr. Herbert S. Terrace, a Columbia University psychologist, who has argued that his chimpanzee experiments have shown that an ape cannot, in any meaningful way, connect "words" into sentences.
        Beatrix Tugendhut Gardner was born on July 13, 1933, in Vienna and was living in Poland at the time of the Nazi invasion. The family escaped to Brazil and lived for six years in a suburb of Sao Paulo before moving to the United States.
        Dr. Gardner, whose first name was sometimes written Beatrice,earned a bachelor's degree at Radcliffe College and a master's degree at Brown University. She received a doctorate in zoology at Oxford University in England in 1959. She studied the stickleback, a fish whose male builds a nest for his mate. She returned to the United States and taught at Wellesley College, where she met Dr. Gardner, who was studying rats.
        They learned of the adverse behavioral effect on rhesus monkeys reared in isolation and ultimately decided to investigate the role of parent-child relationships in the upbringing of chimpanzees. They married in 1961, moved to the University of Nevada in 1963, and in 1966 began trying to teach Washoe, a 10-month-old female ape, to use signals from Ameslan, the American Sign Language.
        In 1967, when Washoe was 15 months old, they reported early results to a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in New York. They said Washoe had learned signs for hundreds of words.
        The Gardners reported that the chimpanzee created expressions like "water birds" for a pair of swans and "open flower" to gain admittance to a flower garden. Washoe even seemed to be teaching sign language to a young companion. The Gardners did similar tests with four more chimpanzees: Moja, Pili, Tatu and Dar.
        Skeptics suggested that these claims could be a product of inadvertent coaching or wishful thinking.
        Other than her husband, Dr. Gardner had no immediate survivors.
        But the chimpanzee project continues. Washoe just celebrated her 30th birthday. She lives in Ellensburg, Wash., at the Chimpanzee and Human Communications Institute, said Deborah Fouts, who with her husband, Roger, is co-director of the institute.
      