
        Louise Reinhardt Smith, a discerning collector of modern art and a prized supporter of the Museum of Modern Art since 1957, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91.
        Ms. Smith was one of the last of the strong-willed and independent-minded collectors whose activity was indispensable to the Museum of Modern Art at a time when there was still much new ground to be broken for its core collections.
        Agnes Gund, president of the Museum of Modern Art, said yesterday: "Louise Smith brought to art a real, true love. She cared nothing for the social status or the public attention that it could bring. The only people she wanted around her were those who felt for art the way she did.
        "Disregarding the safe and the sure, she was drawn to the tough and the difficult in art. Living with the tough pictures in her collection -- the redoubtable Picasso 'Woman Dressing Her Hair' of 1940, for one -- she developed over the years a friendship with them that was deeply moving to witness".
        Mrs. Smith's many gifts to the Museum of Modern Art are the subject of an exhibition, "Masterworks From the Louise Reinhardt Smith Collection," which opened at the museum on May 4 and runs through Aug. 22. With the exception of two paintings -- one by Claude Monet, the other by Georges Braque -- that she bequeathed to the Metropolitan Museum, everything in the show will now be part of the Modern's permanent collection. Matisse, Degas, Kandinsky and Seurat are among the major artists represented in the exhibition.
        Louise Reinhardt Smith was born in Dallas on March 14, 1904. The daughter of Sidney Reinhardt and Alice Blum Reinhardt, she attended Washington University and the College of the Incarnate Word in San Antonio. In 1964, at the age of 60, she obtained her bachelor's degree from New York University.
        For many years she wrote short stories for Ladies' Home Journal and other publications and in 1945 received the O. Henry Award. During her marriage to Bertram Smith, an investment broker in New York City, she kept registered Guernsey cows at the couple's farm in the Berkshires. After her husband's death, she began her long association with the Museum of Modern Art and its international council. She was made a trustee of the museum in 1965 and a trustee for life in 1993.
        She is survived by a daughter, Ann Smith, and two grandsons, Bertram and Nicholas Nikola; all of Patterson, N.Y., and a sister, Alice Harrington of San Diego.
      