
        May Sarton, poet, novelist and the strongest of individualists, died on Sunday at the York Hospital in York, Me., the town in which she had lived for many years. She was a stoical figure in American culture, writing about love, solitude and the search for self-knowledge. She was 83.
        The cause of death was breast cancer, said Susan Sherman, a close friend and editor of her letters.
        During a remarkably prolific career that stretched from early sonnets published in 1929 in Poetry magazine to "Coming Into Eighty" her latest collection of poems, in 1994, Ms. Sarton persistently followed her own path and was nurtured by an inner lyricism. She wrote more than 20 books of fiction and many works of nonfiction, including autobiographies and journals, a play and several screenplays. She was best known and most highly regarded as a poet.
        Extremely popular on college campuses, she became a heroine to feminists. In 1965, when she revealed that she was a lesbian, she said she lost two jobs as a result. But as with so much in her life, she had no regrets.
        In an interview with Enid Nemy in The New York Times in 1983, Ms. Sarton was described as "a commanding, no-nonsense figure with clear blue eyes and a shock of white hair," a woman who lived in "self-imposed loneliness" in a weathered clapboard house on the Maine coast. She had, it was said, a difficult life; her work has been virtually ignored by major critics and she gained her reputation primarily by word of mouth. The poet said, "Women have been my muse."
        Recovering from a stroke, and while often in pain from other ailments, she continued to keep a journal, and in 1993 published "Encore: A Journal of the 80th Year." In it, she said, "I write poems, have always written them, to transcend the painfully personal and reach the universal." She added, "It's hard to say goodbye to journals, and if I live to be 85 I might resume one for the joy of it."
        In The New York Times Book Review, the novelist Sheila Ballantyne, reviewing "Anger," Ms. Sarton's 1982 novel, wrote: "It is clear that May Sarton's best work, whatever its form, will endure well beyond the influence of particular reviews or current tastes. For in it she is an example: a seeker after truth with a kind of awesome energy for renewal, an ardent explorer of life's important questions. Her great strength is that when she achieves insight, one believes -- because one has witnessed the struggle that preceded the knowledge."
        Ms. Sarton was born in Wondelgem in Belgium in 1914, as Eleanore Marie Sarton. Her father was a Belgian historian of science, her mother an English artist and designer. With the outbreak of World War I, the Sartons emigrated to England and, in 1916, to the United States, where her name was Anglicized to Eleanor May Sarton. As she later recalled in "I Knew a Phoenix: Sketches for an Autobiography," her mother carried with her from Belgium a copy of "Leaves of Grass," and passed on a love of poetry to her daughter.
        In 1918, the Sartons settled in Cambridge, Mass. At Shady Hill School in Cambridge, the young woman explored her passion for poetry, and then fell into difficulty at high school because she objected to a teacher's statement that Ibsen was immoral. The fact that she did not go to college was, she said, "a great piece of luck; this way, I'm ignorant but I'm fresh." Stage-struck, she joined Eva Le Gallienne's Civic Repertory Theater as an actress. After the company disbanded in the early 1930's, she founded the Apprentice Theater of the New School for Social Research. When her theater failed, she made frequent trips back to Europe, and continued to re-envision her experiences in poetry.
        During the 1930's, two volumes of poetry, "Encounter in April" and "Inner Landscape," and a novel, "The Single Hound," established themes that were to occupy her for a lifetime: the many forms of love and the uniqueness of the individual. To support her art, she wrote book reviews and taught creative writing. Her second novel, "The Bridge of Years," published in 1946, was seemingly drawn from life, dealing with the effect of two world wars on a Belgian family. Many of her subsequent novels, including "The Small Room," "Crucial Conversations" and "A Reckoning," centered on women as protagonists. In these novels as well as in her poems, she confronted issues that foreshadowed feminist writing of subsequent decades.
        For Ms. Sarton, poetry was her life's work. As she said: "When you're a poet, you're a poet first. When it comes, it's like an angel." Although she never had the full recognition attained by many of her peers, and never won a Pulitzer Prize or a National Book Award, her work generally received favorable reviews and she had a loyal readership. She was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and received 18 honorary degrees.
        In "Encore," she admitted to being hypersensitive about criticism. As she once said, referring to a review of her novel, "A Reckoning," a bad review "is a drop of poison and slowly gets into the system, day by day." But nothing could discourage her from writing, not even a series of illnesses. Through her later years, she chronicled her life in journals. In "After the Stroke," a journal published in 1988, she wrote that she had discovered "for the first time perhaps what it takes to grow old," and, approaching 75, was determined to "recover and go on creating."
        Speaking about the "rewards of a solitary life," she said, "Loneliness is most acutely felt with other people, for with others, even with a lover sometimes, we suffer from our differences -- differences of taste, temperament, mood." Quietly she waited for the moment to come "when the world falls away, and the self emerges again from the deep unconscious, bringing back all I have recently experienced to be explored and slowly understood, when I can converse again with my own hidden powers, and so grow, and so be renewed, till death do us part." Of Solitude, Mortality, Liberals, Friends and Fires  Fruit of Loneliness
        Now for a little I have fed on loneliness
        As on some strange fruit from a frost-touched vine --
        Persimmon in its yellow comeliness,
        Or pomegranate-juice color of wine,
        The pucker-mouth crab apple, or late plum --
        On fruit of loneliness I have been fed.
        But now after short absence I am come
        Back from felicity to the wine and bread.
        For, being mortal, this luxurious heart
        Would starve for you, my dear, I must admit,
        If it were held another hour apart
        From that food which alone can comfort it --
        I am come home to you, for at the end
        I find I cannot live without you, friend.
        From "Words on the Wind" ("Encounter in April," Houghton-Mifflin, 1937)
        I watched the psychic surgeon
        Stern, skilled, adroit,
        Cut deep into the heart
        And yet not hurt. . . .
        Old failures, old obsessions
        Cut Away. . . .
        From "Letter to a Psychiatrist"
        Here in Maine it is a cold start to the new year as a tempestuous ocean throws up fountains of spray at the end of my field and its ice on the dirt roads where I walk Tamas, my dog. But the cold is not only in the weather -- after all, we expect that, and we are bundled up; the cold is in the heart. I cannot remember a year when I was more aware of suffering and need, more aware of the botch governments make of human lives, more aware of my own helplessness as though the fire in me had frozen at the center.
        When Tamas comes in from the snow, he shakes himself, and this evening I tell myself, as the moon rises in a brief respite from storm, that I must find a way to shake myself out of the frozen mood and start the fire going again. Hard times tempt one to run for cover and hide, wait it out, give up trying to act in the face of gigantic problems no one of us is equipped to solve. The temptation is to withdraw.
        But, I tell myself, that is not what being a liberal is all about, however put down and cast aside we may be at the moment. Anger lights the fire when I see some people hanging their heads, allowing themselves to be persuaded that government cannot concern itself with the poor, the disabled, the old, the children. We may have failed, but if so we failed because we did too little, not too much.
        We have got to warm ourselves back to the certainty that it is only when we lose the connection between ourselves and other people that we begin to freeze up into despair. That connection has to be kept open whatever happens. It is kept open by letters, by unexpected encounters, or by simply contemplating the points of light here or there.
        From "Winter Thoughts" (The New York Times, 1982)
        "Music I heard with you was more than music." Exactly. And therefore music itself can only be heard alone. Solitude is the salt of personhood. It brings out the authentic flavor of every experience.
        Loneliness is most acutely felt with other people, for with others, even with a lover sometimes, we suffer from our differences -- differences of taste, temperament, mood. Human intercourse often demands that we soften the edge of perception, or withdraw at the very instant of personal truth for fear of hurting, or of being inappropriately present, which is to say naked, in a social situation. Alone we can afford to be wholly whatever we are, and to feel whatever we feel absolutely.
        From "Rewards of a Solitary Life" (The New York Times, 1990)
      