
        Elizabeth Montgomery, the pert actress who enchanted television audiences as the star of the long-running comedy series "Bewitched," died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 57.
        Last month, Ms. Montgomery underwent surgery for the removal of what was characterized at the time as a small malignant tumor. Her family would not disclose the type of cancer.
        "Bewitched," a top-rated ABC situation comedy set in suburbia, ran from 1964 to 1972. Its green-eyed star played Samantha, a witch and the wife of an advertising executive who tried to suppress her supernatural talents yet often resorted to sorcery to solve problems.
        The comedic twist was that her efforts to shun witchcraft were strongly resented by her kin. They included Samantha's mother, Endora, played by Agnes Moorehead, and the trouble-making Serena, a look-alike cousin also played by Ms. Montgomery. The clue to Samantha's impending sorcery was a twitch of her nose. The witch's perplexed husband, Darrin, was played first by Dick York and then by Dick Sargent.
        "Bewitched" was Ms. Montgomery's first and only television series. After the series ended, she had a successful career as a star in made-for-television movies. One of them, "Deadline for Murder," was broadcast by CBS last week. In it, the actress portrayed the reporter Edna Buchanan, whom she had played in "The Corpse Had a Familiar Face" in 1994.
        Ms. Montgomery was born on April 15, 1938, her publicity agent said. Her father was the actor and director Robert Montgomery. Her mother, Elizabeth Allen Montgomery, was an actress.
        A native of Los Angeles, she graduated from the Spence School in New York City and attended the Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York. After three years of intensive training, she made her television debut in the 1950's television playhouse series "Robert Montgomery Presents," of which her father was the producer and host.
        In the 1950's and 60's, she also appeared in films, including "The Court-Martial of Billy Mitchell" (1955), with Gary Cooper, and "Johnny Cool" (1963). She was narrator of "The Panama Deception," a documentary about the American invasion of Panama, which won an Academy Award in 1993.
        Her television movies often won critical praise. Among them were "A Case of Rape" (1974), "The Legend of Lizzie Borden" (1975) and "Black Widow Murders: The Blanche Taylor Moore Story" (1993).
        She is survived by her husband, the actor Robert Foxworth, and three children from an earlier marriage to William Asher, the producer of "Bewitched." Her first husband was the actor Gig Young.
      