
        Dr. Berta Vogel Scharrer, a pioneering biomedical scientist and founding faculty member of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University, died on Sunday at her home in the Bronx. She was 88.
        Harvard University, conferring an honorary doctorate on Dr. Scharrer in 1982, said her "research journeys into the world of insects have profoundly affected the study of human physiology." The particular insect she had studied since 1937 was the South American cockroach.
        Dr. Scharrer's specialty was neuroendocrinology, the study of the interaction between the nervous and endocrine systems. At her death, she was distinguished professor emeritus of anatomy and structural biology and of neuroscience at Einstein. She had been affiliated with the college since it was founded in 1955. She reached emeritus status in 1978 but continued her research until a few months ago.
        In 1928, Dr. Ernst Scharrer, her future husband, working in Germany, discovered what he called gland-nerve cells in the hypothalamus of a fish's brain. From this, the Scharrers developed the concept of neurosecretion -- secretions from nerve cells -- that gave rise in the 1930's and early 1940's to neuroendocrinology as a new discipline.
        Berta Vogel was born in Munich, Germany, and received a doctorate in biology from the University of Munich in 1930. She married Dr. Scharrer in 1934, and they remained a team at Einstein until his accidental drowning in 1965. Though not Jewish, the Scharrers left Germany in 1937 because of Hitler's policies.
        Early in their collaboration, they decided on a comparative approach, dividing the animal kingdom so that he would study vertebrates and she invertebrates. They determined that certain principles found in an insect could explain certain things about mammalian systems, and vice versa.
        Their discovery of neurosecretions took years to find acceptance, as their peers resisted the notion that neurons could dispatch neurohormonal, blood-borne signals, an activity previously associated only with the hormonal endocrine cells.
        Once neuroendocrinology became established, Dr. Scharrer received many honorary degrees and other honors in the United States and in Europe. She was given the National Medal of Science at a White House ceremony in 1985.
        She is survived by a brother, Dr. Karl Vogel of Neustadt, Germany, and a sister, Lotte Vogel of Munich.
      