
        Onnie Lee Logan, the Alabama midwife who used what she called her God-given motherwit to deliver hundreds of babies before her 1989 autobiography made her a favorite in feminist circles, died on Tuesday at the Mobile Infirmary in Mobile, Ala. By her own reckoning she was about 85.
        When she was born "somewhere about 1910," she once noted, midwives in rural Alabama weren't overly scrupulous about filing birth records for the grandchildren of slaves.
        Mrs. Logan, the 14th of 16 children, was born on a farm in Marengo County, outside Sweet Water, about 120 miles north of Mobile.
        On the surface, her life was little different from those of other black women of her era in southern Alabama. As a child she picked cotton, sewed and ironed to make money for her family. And for all her infectious optimism and perpetual good cheer, even as a "granny," as midwives were known in the South, Mrs. Logan, the daughter and granddaughter of midwives, was hardly unique.
        In 1910, about half of the births in the United States were assisted by midwives, and the percentage was far higher in the rural south. Their clients were generally so poor that even Mrs. Logan, who delivered virtually every child born in the predominantly black Mobile suburb of Prichard from 1931 to 1984, had to supplement her income by working as a maid.
        What ultimately set Mrs. Logan apart was not her work, but her compelling sense that hers was a story that had to be told. Or, as she put it, "I just got so much experience in here that I just want to explode."
        Although she was barely literate, Mrs. Logan said she was so determined to tell it she would be prepared to "scratch it out" herself.
        That proved unnecessary when a family she worked for introduced her to Katherine Clark, a young Harvard graduate who came to Mobile in 1984 to teach English at the University of South Alabama and is now a professor of English at the University of New Orleans.
        "As soon as I met her, I knew there was a book in her," Professor Clark said yesterday, recalling that she had taped 100 hours of Mrs. Logan's recollections before editing them into what became "Motherwit: An Alabama Midwife's Story" (Dutton, 1989).
        The book, still in print as a Plume paperback, was widely praised both for its vivid accounts of Mrs. Logan's life told in her distinctive vernacular and for her unflinchingly optimistic spirit in the face of pervasive adversity.
        "Motherwit" made Mrs. Logan something of a folk hero, and two years ago she was represented along with Simone de Beauvoir, Anne Frank, Maya Angelou, Lillian Hellman, Joan Didion and other feminist luminaries in "The Norton Book of Women's Lives" (Norton, 1993).
        Although lay midwives were outlawed by the state of Alabama in 1976, Mrs. Logan had attained such stature in Mobile that she was allowed to continue her practice under a permit from local authorities until 1984, when she received an abrupt notice telling her there was no longer a need for her services.
        Mrs. Logan, who had delivered babies for almost two decades before receiving a state license in 1949, retired from her profession, but refused to abandon her calling. Despite all the advances in medical services to the poor, she knew that midwives were too often not the alternative to hospitals, but to husbands.
        "They're not going to stop me from doing the gift that God give me to do," she said. "I don't be going there on no license. I be going there as a friend to help that husband deliver his baby."
        Mrs. Logan, who was married three times, is survived by her husband, Roosevelt Logan; a son, Johnnine Watkins of Moss Point, Miss; a sister, Louise Blackman of Pensacola, Fla.; six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      