
        Alice V. Keliher, whose experiences as a lightly trained teacher of ill-prepared first graders led her to become a renowned expert on early childhood education and a champion of giving children unreserved respect and affection, died on Tuesday at the Tucson Medical Center in Arizona. She was 92.
        A longtime professor of education at New York University, Miss Keliher cherished her unofficial title as the "grandmother of day care."
        In the 1930's, she conducted seminal research on childhood development with Arnold Gesell at Yale University. In the 1940's and 1950's, as a member of N.Y.U.'s faculty, she served on virtually every city, state and national conference devoted to children and wrote widely on the subject.
        And in the 1960's, while winding down her wide-ranging academic career as a professor at Wheelock College in Boston, she became the Massachusetts regional training officer for Head Start, the Federal program designed to provide disadvantaged children with the preschool enrichment Miss Keliher had been preaching to parents and educators for decades.
        Although she trained teachers at N.Y.U. from 1936 to 1960, World War II provided her with her major platform.
        As director of child and youth services of the New York Office of Civilian Defense, and secretary of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia's Committee on the Wartime Care of Children, Miss Keliher helped make day care an accepted staple of American life.
        Her campaign for day care may have made her a legitimate feminist heroine, but Miss Keliher, who also helped lessen the burden on mothers by spearheading the development of kindergarten and nursery school, made it clear that her focus was not women, but their children.
        Instead of talking about what "working mothers need," she said in 1949, the emphasis should be on "what makes a good next generation for America."
        A native of Washington who received her teacher's certificate after two years of training, Miss Keliher was only 20 when she became a teacher in 1923. After four years in the Washington school system, she decided she could serve children better by teaching their teachers how to teach.
        Obtaining bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in three years at Teachers College at Columbia University, she joined Dr. Gesell in 1930. She secured the job with the renowned child psychologist, she later confided, because she was the only applicant who knew how to operate a movie camera, a skill needed in research based on close observation of minute changes in infant behavior.
        For all her dedication to her work, Miss Keliher's abiding passion was opera, and for decades she was a fixture in the center of the first row of the first balcony at the Metropolitan Opera (at just over 5 feet tall, she needed an unobstructed view), where her frequent guest was Eleanor Roosevelt.
        The two women, who became friends when Mrs. Roosevelt took an apartment in Miss Keliher's building near Washington Square Park, enjoyed trading favors: Mrs. Roosevelt let Miss Keliher take her N.Y.U. students on field trips to the Roosevelt estate at Hyde Park. Miss Keliher, who had the larger oven, let Mrs. Roosevelt roast her turkeys in her kitchen.
        Miss Keliher also shared Mrs. Roosevelt's devotion to human rights.
        In a little-known chapter of her life, her lawyer, J. Dan O'Neill, said yesterday, Miss Keliher helped several Jewish families escape from Germany and Austria in the late 1930's. Her lawyer said the enterprise was organized by the love of her life, a shadowy American intelligence agent whose death in World War II led Miss Keliher to vow to remain unmarried.
        Miss Keliher later created a furor when she refused to attend an education conference at a club known to exclude Jews. And she was such an outspoken champion of women, including their need for birth-control devices, Mr. O'Neill said, that she became a virtual pariah to her own Roman Catholic Church.
        For all her books, like "Life and Growth" and "A Critical Study of Homogenous Grouping," Miss Keliher stressed a single theme, one she summed up in 1955: "If I could say just one thing to parents, it would be simply that a child needs someone who believes in him no matter what he does."
        She leaves no immediate survivors.
      