
        Sylvia Weinberger, who used a sprinkling of matzoh meal, a pinch of salt and a dollop of schmaltzmanship to turn chopped liver into a commercial success, died on July 23 at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She was 89 and had lived in Boca Raton, Fla.
        Mrs. Weinberger started making chopped liver for a luncheonette she and her husband, Irving, had opened in 1944 on the Grand Concourse at 169th Street in the Bronx. She ended up presiding over a $2 million-a-year operation as the proprietor of the semi-eponymous Mrs. Weinberg's Chopped Liver. She once said her name had been shortened because of typographical necessity when her first labels were printed: "My whole name wouldn't fit."
        According to her son Richard, Mrs. Weinberg's had become the leading brand of chopped liver at kosher counters from New York to Chicago by the time she retired in 1989. But when it began, it was all Mrs. Weinberger could do to make it acceptable on the Grand Concourse.
        At that time, store-bought chopped liver was almost an oxymoron, something to be smuggled home in a plain brown wrapper because no self-respecting Jewish homemaker was likely to admit that she did not have enough bedrock mother love or culinary skills to make it herself.
        "I used to give it away," Mrs. Weinberger once said.
        Never mind that chopped liver is the metaphorical butt of a Jewish retort ("What am I, chopped liver?"). In many Jewish homes, it is both a staple and a delicacy, one whose proper preparation has been described as the culinary test that divides Jewish moms from Jewish mothers.
        Mrs. Weinberger's version apparently passed the test. After much wheedling and cajoling by Mrs. Weinberger, her chopped liver caught on -- so much so, Mrs. Weinberger once recalled, that when she put up a sign, "Mrs. Weinberger's chopped liver with a smile," "People used to say, 'Keep the smile, just give me the liver.' "
        As the product became more popular, Mr. Weinberger started soliciting supermarkets in the Bronx. But when the first big order came in, for two cases, his wife was somewhat unprepared.
        "We didn't have any boxes or cases," she said. "We delivered the individual containers in plastic bags."
        Mrs. Weinberger, a Hungarian refugee, came to the United States in 1937 with two young sons to join her husband. She helped support the family by working as a seamstress while her husband worked in a laundry until they had saved enough to buy the luncheonette.
        They sold it in 1955 to manufacture chopped liver full time. Other kosher products, all based on Mrs. Weinberger's recipes, were later added to the Mrs. Weinberg's Food Products line. The family sold the manufacturing company, but Mr. Weinberger continues to be the distributor.
        In addition to Richard, of Mamaroneck, N.Y., Mrs. Weinberger is survived by another son, Sidney, of Boca Raton, and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 3, 1995, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Sylvia Weinberger, who founded Mrs. Weinberg's Chopped Liver, misstated the given name of one of her sons. He is Fred Weinberger, not Richard.
      