
        Oveta Culp Hobby, the creator of the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps in World War II, the first Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare and a longtime executive at the recently closed Houston Post, died yesterday at her home in Houston. She was 90.
        Mrs. Hobby, whose media holdings made her one of the nation's richest women, suffered a stroke in April, her family said.
        She went from being a small-town lawyer's well-read daughter to being a regular on fashion magazines' lists of well-dressed women, with her trendy designer gowns and hats from Bergdorf Goodman. She took lessons that erased the drawl from her conversations about the Picasso paintings she collected or the Bartok concertos she heard at the Houston Symphony. She also reorganized the business department of The Houston Post from top to bottom, and she later developed a reputation as a hard-working administrator who prized efficiency in government.
        But she was not one to demand the credit.
        "Everything that ever happened to me fell in my lap," she once said. "And nothing in my life would have been possible without Governor."
        "Governor" was William P. Hobby, an easy-going newspaperman who was the top elected official in Texas from 1917 to 1921; his most notable action as Governor was to call out the state militia to crush a dock strike.
        He was hired as publisher of The Houston Post-Dispatch at about the same time that Miss Culp, a friend of Florence Sterling, whose millionaire brother owned the paper, got a job in the circulation department.
        Mr. Hobby's first wife died a year later. A couple of years later, after Miss Culp lost a campaign for a seat in the State Legislature, they were seen socializing around Houston. In 1931, when she was 26 and he 53, they were married.
        "Will, she'll embarrass you," one of her husband's friends warned. "She doesn't give a hang about clothes."
        But she learned to; in the 1950's her name appeared regularly on the lists of best-dressed women. She also learned about newspapers. The Hobbys eventually acquired ownership of The Post and she worked as a book reviewer, copy editor and editorial writer.
        Their first child, William P. Hobby Jr., was born on Mrs. Hobby's 27th birthday, and her daughter, Jessica, on her 32d. As the publisher's wife, she became president of the Texas League of Women Voters, a member of the board of the Houston Museum of Fine Arts, a member of the Houston Symphony Orchestra Committee and regional chairman of the Mobilization for Human Needs, all before she was 35.
        Mrs. Hobby was born on Jan. 19, 1905, in Killeen, Tex., the daughter of Isaac and Emma Hoover Culp. Her first name was an Indian word that her parents chose because it rhymed with with Juanita, the name of one of her sisters.
        Oveta soon demonstrated her independent-mindedness. A temperance campaign swept Killeen when she was 5, and her Sunday school class was asked to sign a pledge. She politely refused. Her grandmother heard about her refusal and had a switch ready. Not until afterward did her grandmother ask why she had refused. "I did not sign because I did not know what that word means -- temperance," she said. Her grandmother apologized.
        She was her father's favorite; at 10 she read the Congressional Record in his office, and when he won a seat in the Texas Legislature in 1919 she went with him to Austin.
        She briefly attended Mary Hardin Baylor College at Belton, Tex. Miss Culp was soon on the state payroll, in a job codifying statutes for the State Banking Committee. In 1925, when she was 20, a year shy of being old enough to vote, she was appointed parliamentarian of the Texas Legislature. Later she wrote a handbook on parliamentary procedure, "Mr. Chairman," which was used as a textbook throughout the state.
        "If I hadn't been parliamentarian of the Texas Legislature, other things would never have been sparked," she said later. "Twenty is a wonderful age for things to be sparked."
        One of the things sparked by her duties in Austin was an interest in politics. The 1928 Democratic National Convention was held in Houston, and she worked on senatorial and mayoral campaigns. She later ran for a seat in the State Legislature. Her opponent whispered that she was "a parliamentarian and a Unitarian." She lost. It was the last time she ran for office.
        Mrs. Hobby was in Washington in 1941 for a meeting at the Federal Communications Commission -- the family owned radio station KPRC-AM -- when Gen. David Searles asked her to organize a section on women's activities for the Army. The War Department had been receiving 10,000 letters a day from women who wanted to serve their country. But Mrs. Hobby turned him down, saying that she had a husband, two children and a job.
        General Searles asked her to draw up an organization chart with recommendations on ways that women could serve, and she did. He repeated his request that she go to work in Washington. She repeated her refusal. Then she told her husband.
        "You shouldn't have made him have to ask you a second time," Mr. Hobby reportedly said at the time. "Any thoughtful person knows that we are in this war, and that every one of us is going to have to do whatever we are called upon to do." Mrs. Hobby went to Washington.
        Her job was completely new in American military history, and she had to write her own rules. The idea of the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps -- the name was changed to Women's Army Corps in 1943 -- was not well received by male commanders. Sergeants had jeeps, but Mrs. Hobby, who held the rank of colonel, had to call for a car from the War Department motor pool.
        Members of the WACs enlisted for noncombat duty as medical technicians, cartography clerks, secretaries and similar types of jobs in the United States and in every war theater. By the end of World War II, about 100,000 women had joined the WAC. The organization was dissolved in 1978.
        Mrs. Hobby received the Distinguished Service Medal in January 1945 for outstanding service "without guidance or precedents in United States military history.
        Back in Houston, she renewed her political contacts and expanded the circulation of The Post, where she was an executive vice president and a director of KPRC, which came to include not only the AM station but also FM and television outlets.
        Although she considered herself a conservative Democrat, she backed Gov. Thomas E. Dewey of New York, a Republican, when he ran for President in 1948, and Dwight D. Eisenhower in his successful Presidential campaign in 1952.
        In return for her support, Mrs. Hobby was appointed to succeed Oscar E. Ewing as head of the Federal Security Agency. Her post did not have full Cabinet status when she was sworn in, but it was soon elevated to that rank and its name was changed to the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. Mrs. Hobby was the nation's second woman to hold a Cabinet post; the first, Frances Perkins, was Secretary of Labor under President Franklin D. Roosevelt from 1933 to 1945.
        In 31 months in charge of the department, which had a $1.7 billion annual budget, she oversaw the development of nurses training programs and a hospital reinsurance plan. She was also involved in the announcement of the Salk polio vaccine, and was praised at the time for having the patience to hold the announcement until the vaccine had been properly tested.
        When Mrs. Hobby resigned, Treasury Secretary George M. Humphrey was so dismayed that he said, "What? The best man in the Cabinet?"
        Mrs. Hobby's reason for leaving Washington was straightforward: "Nothing is as important as Governor."
        Her husband had been ill, but he improved once she was back in Houston. For the next nine years, until his death in 1964, they worked out of adjacent offices at The Post or a single large room in their home.
        Mrs. Hobby sold The Post to the Toronto Sun Publishing Company in 1983 for about $130 million. The paper changed hands again a few years later, and was finally closed earlier this year.
        In 1992, H&C Communications Inc., another family enterprise, sold its five television stations. The sale left H&C with only one broadcast outlet, the Hobby's original station, KPRC-AM in Houston.
        Besides her son, who was the Lieutenant Governor of Texas from 1973 to 1991 and was recently named chancellor of the University of Houston, and her daughter, Jessica Catto, of San Antonio, she is survived by a sister, Mrs. Loy Loving, of Weslaco, Tex., 8 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      