
        Helen Singer Kaplan, a pioneer in the field of sex therapy and founder of the country's first clinic for sexual disorders established at a medical school, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 66.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Dr. Kaplan was considered a leader among scientific-oriented sex therapists. She was noted for her efforts to combine some of the insights and techniques of psychoanalysis with behavioral methods.
        She agreed with others in the field that sexual difficulties often had superficial origins. But she held that, in case an unconscious conflict lay at the root of the disorder, it could indicate deep emotional problems and require the therapist to resort to more analytical means.
        Consequently, her approach was seen as psychosexual therapy, to distinguish it from sex therapy. And her arrival on the scene manifested the way psychoanalysts gradually adapted to new sex-therapy techniques.
        Although not so well known to the public as the sex researchers William Masters and Virginia Johnson, Dr. Kaplan was a leader in her field. She also had her differences with the Masters-Johnson team, questioning their advocacy and use of two therapists working together because, she felt, one therapist of either sex would suffice.
        Working as a clinical professor of psychiatry, she became the founder, in 1970, of the Human Sexuality Program at the Payne Whitney Clinic, one of the country's most prominent psychiatric clinics and part of the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center complex. She remained its director until her death.
        Born Helen Singer in Vienna on Feb. 6, 1929, she came to the United States in 1940 and became a citizen in 1947. She graduated magna cum laude with a bachelor's degree in fine arts from Syracuse University in 1951 and earned a master's degree in psychology at Columbia University in 1952. She got a Ph.D in psychology in 1955 at Columbia.
        In 1959, she received her medical degree from New York Medical College, where she completed a comprehensive course in psychoanalysis in 1970.
        She trained in clinical psychology at Veterans Administration hospitals and clinics in Montrose, N.Y., and the Bronx, interned at Bronx Hospital and completed her training as a fellow of psychiatry at Bellevue Hospital and New York Medical College-Metropolitan Hospital Center.
        There the first phase of her professional teaching career unfolded as she developed and coordinated a basic behavioral science program for psychiatric residents as well as a freshman medical course in psychiatry. She also developed and taught a required course in psychopharmacology.
        From 1960 until she established her program at the Payne Whitney Clinic, she was an associate professor of psychiatry at New York Medical College and an associate attending psychiatrist at Metropolitan, Flower and B.S. Coler Hospitals. At Medical College and Metropolitan Hospital Center she also served as chief of psychosomatic and consultation services, co-director of the Behavior Therapy Unit, chairman of the Behavioral Science Teaching Program and director of a program for women residents with children.
        She established new programs, including one to train the psychiatric and obstetrics-gynecology staff in human sexuality.
        She was appointed a professor of psychiatry at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in 1970. Aside from directing her program at the Payne Whitney, she was in charge of undergraduate teaching of psychiatry and curriculum development until 1976.
        Her human sexuality program included an outpatient clinic for the evaluation and treatment of psychosexual disorders. This generated clinical materials for postgraduate training courses for enrolled physicians and mental-health professionals. Dr. Kaplan was in charge of all education and training programs in human sexuality for Cornell medical students and psychiatric residents at the Payne Whitney.
        Dr. Kaplan was credited with 110 publications and 127 lectures and presentations taking in the full range of her specialty.
        Several of her books remain in print. These include "New Sex Therapy: Active Treatment of Sexual Dysfunctions" (Random House, 1974), "Disorders of Sexual Desires and Other New Concepts and Techniques in Sex Therapy" (Brunner-Mazel, 1979), "The Evaluation of Sexual Disorders: Psychological and Medical Aspects" (Brunner, 1983), "The Illustrated Manual of Sex Therapy" (Brunner; 2d ed., 1987), "How to Overcome Premature Ejaculation" (Brunner, 1989), and, with Donald F. Klein, "Sexual Aversion, Sexual Phobias and Panic Disorder" (Brunner, 1987).
        Dr. Kaplan is survived by her husband of 15 years, Charles P. Lazarus; two sons, Dr. Phillip Kaplan and Dr. Peter Kaplan, a daughter, Jennifer Kaplan-D'Addio, all of the Upper East Side; a brother, Frank Singer of California, and two grandsons.
        Correction:  August 23, 1995, Wednesday
        An obituary on Saturday of Dr. Helen Singer Kaplan, founder of the Human Sexuality Program at the Payne Whitney Clinic of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, omitted a survivor. She is Sofie Kane of Manhattan, Dr. Kaplan's mother.
      