
        Gloria Chadwick, an international ski racing administrator who was especially dedicated to furthering women's cross-country competition, died on Sunday at her home in Lake Placid, N.Y. She was 63.
        Her brother, Norman Chadwick of Mount Vernon, Wash., said she died of cancer.
        In her youth, Miss Chadwick was a downhill ski racer on the United States A team. She had wanted to compete at the Olympic level, but a skiing accident in which she broke her leg sidelined that ambition.
        Undaunted, she went on to make her mark in the sport through administrative undertakings, and in 1986, was inducted into the United States National Ski Hall of Fame in Ishpeming, Mich.
        She had been director of the United States Olympic Training Center in Lake Placid since 1985, and was executive director of the United States Ski Association from 1961-68. She was also the first national coordinator for Nastar, a racing program for recreational skiers.
        For the last decade, she focused her efforts on behalf of women in skiing as chairman of the International Ski Federation Subcommittee on Women's Cross-Country.
        Miss Chadwick was born in Philadelphia, but her family moved to Lowell, Mass., when she was a toddler. As a teen-ager from a modest home, Miss Chadwick honed her Alpine skills by skiing regularly at nearby Cannon Mountain, N.H.
        She received a bachelor's and master's degree in business from the now-defunct Staley College in Brookline, Mass., and later studied management at Santa Clara University in Santa Clara, Calif.
        In a breakthrough for women in the ski industry, she was hired in 1971 by the Big Sky Resort near Bozeman, Mont., to be director of marketing, and later, a vice president.
        From 1975 to 1983, she was president and general manager of Burke Mountain, Vt. In 1983, she became commissioner of economic development for the state of Vermont.
        In 1985, Miss Chadwick opened the United States Olympic Education Center at Northern Michigan University in Marquette, Mich. Later that year, she also began supervising the $12 million modernization of the Lake Placid training center.
        During the last two years, she was in charge of developing the ARCO United States Olympic Training Center in Chula Vista, Calif.
        Miss Chadwick is survived by her brother.
      