
        Honeychile Wilder is dead, and if the "21" Club is not in actual mourning, the venerable former speak-easy on West 52d Street was closed for vacation last week when word got around that one of its most memorable former patrons had died on Aug. 11 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
        Her original name was Patricia Wilder, and at her death at the age of 76, she was officially known as Princess Alexander Hohenlohe. But from the moment she hit town in the 1930's and took New York by storm, the woman from Georgia who called everybody Honeychile was never called anything but that herself.
        Even after she married the Austrian prince and became a celebrated international hostess, she was known as Princess Honeychile.
        By her own account, within a day of her arrival in New York in 1934 she had been hired as a showgirl and was appearing with Bob Hope at the Palace Theater.
        The gig led to a lifelong friendship, a number of appearances on the Bob Hope radio show, some forgettable movie roles, a series of unforgettable encounters at New York nightclubs and eventually to a series of celebrated liaisons, including a dalliance with King Farouk.
        "She was a character," said her friend, Susie Schneider, who reported that the Princess, a longtime resident of Marbella, Spain, had died of lymphoma.
        She may not have been the actual prototype of Truman Capote's "Breakfast at Tiffany's" heroine, Holly Golightly, as some said. If she was not, it was probably because Mr. Capote was only 16 years old in 1941 when Miss Wilder was charging New York night life with her special brand of electricity.
        There was hardly a night the slender dark-haired beauty with the affecting Southern drawl couldn't be found at the Colony or the Monte Carlo for dinner, followed by stops at the Stork Club, the Cafe Pierre and El Morocco, and she had lunch at "21" so often that the bartender created a Honeychile drink in her honor (a whiskey sour made with honey rather than sugar).
        As she later recalled those halcyon days, Conde Nast would send his limousine to take her to black-tie dinners at his town house; George Gershwin asked her to sit next to him at the piano while he was composing Porgy and Bess, and she used to go bar-hopping with Walter Winchell and his pal J. Edgar Hoover.
        She had a well-chronicled affinity for millionaires, one that would probably have raised fewer eyebrows if their wives had been more understanding. One who apparently was not was Beverly Paterno, whose husband was the heir to a real estate fortune, calculated at the time as worth 63 million 1941 dollars.
        What was said between the two women at the Cafe Pierre on the night of Feb. 22, 1941, was not recorded, but Honeychile's riposte made headlines the next day: she peppered her rival with a flurry of rights and lefts, then doused her with a pitcher of water.
        Although she said she had attended a finishing school in Charlottesville, Va., there was some evidence that it did not ruin her speech patterns. As she once told an interviewer, "Everybody was my friend, but I wasn't in love with nobody."
        That apparently changed when she met Prince Alexander. The Prince died 11 years ago.
        After her husband's death, the Princess, who lived in a small house in Marbella (where a wealthy Hohenlohe cousin owns the Marbella Club) spent much of her time visiting rich friends around the world.
        She is survived by a brother, Henry Wilder, of Macon, Ga.
      