
        Adele Simpson, an important player in the postwar fashion movement, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 91.
        Mrs. Simpson took French couture and gave it an American ready-to-wear interpretation. Her color-coordinated dresses and jackets and well-cut coats in fine fabrics found favor among well-heeled women of her time in search of classic clothes that did not cost a month's rent.
        Mrs. Simpson's popularity spanned more than three decades, from the late 1940's through the 1970's. Her coming of age as a designer mirrored the development of American sportswear, which was defining itself and growing in importance as the mass-market technology that followed World War II left its mark on fashion.
        Lady Bird Johnson, Pat Nixon and Barbara Bush were among those who wore her designs, and her collections were available in some of the nation's finest stores, including Bonwit Teller, B. Altman and Saks Fifth Avenue.
        "She made clothes for ladies," said Helen O'Hagan, a fashion publicist who once worked at Saks. "They were beautifully made and designed. It wasn't advanced, but that wasn't who she was after."
        Mrs. Simpson was born Adele Smithline in New York City, the fifth daughter of Latvian immigrants. In 1927, she married Wesley Simpson, a textile executive.
        At 21, after completing design studies at Pratt Institute, she replaced her older sister Anna as head designer for Ben Girshel, then an important Seventh Avenue manufacturer. A few years later, she went to work for Mary Lee, another Seventh Avenue manufacturer. In 1949, she bought the company and renamed it Adele Simpson.
        As was the practice of the day, she traveled regularly to Paris to gather inspiration and copy French designs.
        Mrs. Simpson was the recipient of numerous fashion accolades, including the Coty American Fashion Critics award in 1947.
        For the wedding of President Lyndon B. Johnson's daughter Luci, in 1966, Mrs. Simpson designed for the mother of the bride a wrinkle-resistant yellow silk street-length coat, matching princess-line dress and hat. This ensemble, with it color coordination and clean, practical lines, was typical of Mrs. Simpson's concept of fashion.
        She continued designing into her 70's, retiring in 1985. Her daughter, Joan Raines, and son-in-law, Richard Raines, ran the business after her retirement. In 1991, the family sold the business to Barron Peters, a clothing company in Lowell, Mass., which has since filed for bankruptcy and discontinued the Adele Simpson line.
        Mrs. Simpson's husband died in 1976.
        In addition to her daughter, Joan, of Manhattan, Mrs. Simpson is survived by a son, Jeffrey, also of Manhattan, and three grandsons.
      