
        Alice Greenough Orr, who broke horses as a youngster on a Montana ranch, delivered mail through snowdrifts on horseback as a teen-ager and later reigned for two decades as the rodeo queen of the bronc riders, died on Sunday at her home in Tucson, Ariz. She was 93 and a member of both the Cowboy and the Cowgirl Halls of Fame.
        In a career that took her from the wilds of Montana to Madison Square Garden and the capitals of Europe, Mrs. Orr was always at home on a horse. If it was bucking, so much the better.
        When she was a child growing up on a ranch near Red Lodge, Mont., her father regularly gave her wild horses, knowing that by the time they got tired of trying to dislodge his tenacious daughter, they would be tame enough for regular people to ride.
        In time, her skill would lead to four world saddle bronc championships and make her a star attraction on rodeo tours in the United States, Australia and Europe.
        Although bronc riding was her specialty, she and her little sister, Marge Henderson, excelled at virtually every rodeo event from trick riding to bull riding. Together with their brothers Bill and Turk, they became known as the Riding Greenoughs. Like Turk, a legendary bronc rider who died in June at the age of 89, Mrs. Orr also did occasional stunt work for the movies.
        Her skill brought her considerable attention. On one European tour in the 1930's she had tea with the Queen of England, and, without benefit of sword, rode fighting bulls into Spanish arenas before dismounting and leaving them to the matadors.
        Mrs. Orr, who once said she had been "born liberated," dropped out of school to take over a 35-mile rural mail route at the age of 14. She kept the route for three winters and two summers and had her heart set on a career as a forest ranger until the return of servicemen from World War I closed off such employment opportunities for women.
        After the failure of her marriage to Ray Cahill, which produced two children, Mrs. Orr was working in a rooming house in 1929 when she read an advertisement for bronc riders for a wild west show, the precursor of modern rodeos.
        She and her sister answered the advertisement and were hired on the spot.
        Early competitors were sometimes shortchanged by tour operators, at least until 1936, when Mrs. Orr and others formed what is now known as the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association.
        In the 1940's she and her second husband, Joe Orr, operated their own rodeos, with Mrs. Orr providing exhibitions of saddle bronc riding, a specialty that rodeo experts say requires so much more skill and finesse than bareback riding that it no longer exists as a competitive event on the women's rodeo circuit.
        Mrs. Orr retired from rodeos in 1954, but continued to accept occasional movie assignments until she was 80. She climbed into the saddle for the last time in 1992 when she rode in a parade in Red Lodge, where few of those who lined the route could remember the time when it was a girl on horseback who delivered the mail.
        In addition to her sister, also of Tucson, she is survived by a son, Jay Cahill of Grandview, Mo.; 11 grandchildren, 12 great-grandchildren and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
      