
        Niuta Titus, whose philanthropy fostered culture and medical research, died on Tuesday in Gstaad, Switzerland, while on vacation. Mrs. Titus, who lived in Manhattan, was 82.
        With her husband, Roy V. Titus, the former chairman of the Helena Rubinstein cosmetics empire, who died in 1989, Mrs. Titus supported endeavors like the film program at the Museum of Modern Art, biochemistry at Duke University and ophthalmological research at the Wilmer Institute at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
        She was the president of the Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation, an honorary trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, a director of the Children's Blood Foundation, president of the Zion Orphanage in Jerusalem, a member of the international board of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and honorary director of the Helena Rubinstein Foundation, which is devoted to the health, education and welfare of women and children.
        Many film buffs in New York have pursued their passion at institutions supported by Mr. and Mrs. Titus. Among them were the Film Society of Lincoln Center, the Film Forum as well as the Museum of Modern Art. In 1976, at a time of pressing financial problems for the museum, Mr. Titus and his wife donated $1 million to renovate its 37-year-old auditorium and for its endowment. Six years later, the couple sponsored a second theater, and the auditoriums are named for them.
        Despite her high-visibility projects, Mrs. Titus was not a public figure. She enjoyed the company of friends and, in particular, liked a good game of bridge.
        She was a member of the Regency Whist Club and the Cavendish Club, a private bridge club, where she met Mr. Titus after she had been widowed twice. They were married in 1960. Twenty years later, they were both still playing bridge at the club.
        Mrs. Titus was born in Lithuania, where she grew up. Before World War II, she lived in Paris with her first husband, Benno Slesin, the general manager for Europe for Warner Brothers.
        She came to the United States in 1940, and after Mr. Slesin died in an airplane crash in 1947, she marriedBernard Miller, a cutlery manufacturer in England. He died in 1953.
        Mrs. Titus is survived by two children of her first marriage, Louis E. Slesin of Manhattan, and Suzanne Slesin Steinberg of Manhattan, an assistant editor in the Home section of The New York Times; and three grandchildren.
      