
        Florene May Schoenborn, a benefactor and life trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, to which she gave dozens of paintings collected over the years by her and her second husband, Samuel A. Marx, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92.
        The couple came to own what was among the most distinguished collections of modern art in private hands. The collection included the most outstanding collection of early works by Matisse outside Russia, the museum said.
        Mrs. Schoenborn became a museum trustee in 1953 and served on the program and drawing comittees. She was a founding member of the museum's international council in 1954.
        She was born in Denver. Her father was David May Sr., the founder of May Department Stores, who started his chain in Leadville, Colo. As a young woman, she hoped to study journalism at Columbia University but her father would not permit her to attend.
        Forty-four of her paintings were shown at the Museum of Modern Art in a 1965 exhibition, "The School of Paris: Paintings From the Florene May Schoenborn and Samuel A. Marx Collection." Mr. Marx, a successful Chicago architect, died in 1964.
        Mrs. Schoenborn donated many important paintings, drawings, sculptures and prints to the museum. The core of her contributions consisted of five paintings by Matisse: "Moroccan Garden" (1912), "Woman on a High Stool" (1914), "Artist and Goldfish" (1914), "Variation on a Still Life by De Heen" (1915) and "The Moroccans" (1915).
        The gallery showing Matisse works from the museum's permanent collection was named the Florene May Schoenborn Gallery in 1986.
        Her first marriage, to Martin Straus, an advertising executive, ended in divorce. Her third husband, Wolfgang Schoenborn, a developer who helped to turn the old Pacific port of Acapulco into a fashionable resort, died in 1986.
        She is survived by five grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  September 1, 1995, Friday
        An obituary on Saturday about Florene May Schoenborn, a benefactor and life trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, misstated the number of paintings she gave to the museum. Her gifts included five paintings by Matisse and drawings, sculptures and prints by many other artists, not dozens of paintings.
      