
        Lee Hadley, an Iowa State English professor who helped turn a collaborative pedagogical sendup into an acclaimed literary career as half of a writing team known to young readers as Hadley Irwin, died on Tuesday at her home in Madrid, Iowa. She was 60.
        The cause was cancer, said her collaborator, Annabelle Irwin, a retired Iowa State professor.
        In the arcane world of children's literature in which 8-to-12-year-olds are termed middle-aged and a 17-year-old is deemed to have one teen-age foot in the grave, the Hadley Irwin books were aimed at audiences aged 12 to 16, known as young adults.
        Specializing in a subgenre known as problem novels, they wrote about teen-agers dealing with such distinctly adult themes as racism ("Kim/Kimi"), suicide ("So Long at the Fair") and alcoholism ("Can't Hear You Listening").
        Even those themes were considered tame compared with that of "Abby, My Love," their breakthrough 1985 novel that stunned the industry as the first in children's literature to deal with incest.
        As collaborators, the women justified their fused pen name by writing in such a seamless voice that it was impossible to tell where Ms. Hadley left off and Mrs. Irwin began.
        No wonder. The women, who began their books at Mrs. Irwin's lakeside home during summer vacations then revised during the school year, sometimes sat side by side at the same typewriter finishing each other's sentences.
        "She was better at characters, and I was better at plots," Mrs. Irwin said.
        Ms. Hadley, a wiry, energetic woman who never married, and the older, plumper Mrs. Irwin, the mother of four children, were a study in contrasts when they took their collaboration on the road with a series of tag-team speeches to education and publishing conferences.
        Ms. Hadley, an Iowa native, graduated from Drake University and received a master's degree from the University of Wisconsin. She spent seven years teaching at a junior college in New Jersey before she joined the Iowa State faculty to teach creative writing in 1969, a year before Mrs. Irwin, a former elementary school teacher, arrived.
        Mrs. Irwin traced their collaboration to their experience as the only members of a faculty committee whose sole product was a jointly written final report, a spoof they peppered with such leaden jargon as "cognitive learning."
        The dean was not unamused. "We weren't fired," Mrs. Irwin said.
        With more than a dozen books still in print and a new one, "Sarah With an H," which deals with anti-Semitism, coming soon from their publisher, the Simon & Schuster McElderry imprint, the women had strong steady sales, but not enough to give up their teaching jobs.
        Hadley Irwin was never more than a sideline for Ms. Hadley. Her main focus was her teaching, a task she accomplished with such flair that she was the only woman on the Iowa State faculty who was made a full professor without benefit of a doctorate.
        In a field where creative-writing teachers are judged by the published authors they train, Ms. Hadley assured herself a measure of instant success. In a class on magazine writing, she promised an A to any student who produced an acceptance check from a magazine and always had two or three students who made the grade.
        She is survived by a sister, Mildred Rich of Oskaloosa, Iowa.
      