
        Gloria Wills Landes, a former Broadway showgirl who capped a brief, effervescent career by founding and directing an acclaimed school for aspiring teen-age actors and playwrights, died on Friday at her home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She was 69.
        Mrs. Landes was the director of the SUNY Youth Theater in Purchase, N.Y., until she became ill last year. She had breast cancer, her family said.
        If Gloria Wills's days on Broadway had been a Busby Berkeley musical, she would have been the star's funny and bubbly best friend, the one who has her moments in the spotlight but gives up a promising career to marry a rich businessman.
        Mrs. Landes's career lasted only three years, but by the time she left a Broadway-bound show in Philadelphia in 1948 to marry Jack Landes, a wealthy silver importer, she had something to tell her grandchildren.  Like hundreds of other stage-struck singers, dancers and actors who have passed through Broadway's revolving door over the years, she had a scrapbook proving that she had been a part of a great tradition.
        She may have spent more time auditioning than performing, but she was a Brooklyn girl who could belt out a song, and her persistent auditions at least made an impression on Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein. Rodgers once said she had auditioned for every part in "Oklahoma!" except the villain, Jud Fry.  If she missed a week trying out for the part of Ado Annie, the "girl who can't say no," Hammerstein would ask if she had been sick.
        She may not have been a star, but the critic Walter Kerr once called her "one of the funniest things on Broadway," and she had her share of brushes with destiny and Broadway cliches.
        In 1945, for example, she was in the chorus of "Carousel" when she discovered new meaning in the old theater good-luck wish of "break a leg." A featured singer got sick, and her understudy, rushing in to replace her, fell down the dressing room steps and actually broke a leg. Mrs. Landes, then all of 19 years old, spent the next six weeks singing "You'll Never Walk Alone."
        Then there was the birthday party for "Oklahoma!" She did a comic version of Agnes de Mille's famous second-act ballet that left Miss de Mille in stitches and persuaded Rodgers and Hammerstein to cast her as Beulah, the campus vamp, in the musical "Allegro" in 1947.
        That led to a part in the revue "Make Mine Manhattan," with Sid Caesar, but Mrs. Landes, who had doubts about the part and her future in the theater, left the show in Philadelphia to accept what she decided was a better offer: to marry Mr. Landes and live happily ever after.
        That is more or less what she did. Several months after she was married, Cole Porter asked her to be Bianca in "Kiss Me Kate," but she was pregnant by then with the first of her four sons.
        Unlike many other short-term performers who end up in the suburbs, Mrs. Landes found a second act. After performing in summer stock, she established a school for teen-age performers that was absorbed by the State University of New York at Purchase, where she taught a generation of young actors and playwrights, including Matt Dillon.
        Mrs. Landes's husband died in 1989. She is survived by her sons, Mark of Potomac, Md., Dan of Brooklyn, Robert of Pacific Palisades, Calif., and Peter of San Rafael, Calif.; eight grandchildren, and a brother, Herbery Wolfson of Wilmington, Del.
      