
        Benay Venuta, whose career in show business began as a teen-age dancer in 1925 and ended with a bit part in Woody Allen's 1993 movie, "Manhattan Murder Mystery," died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84.
        The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter Patricia Winter.
        A singer, actress, radio personality, painter and sculptor, Ms. Venuta was best known as an active participant in New York theater for more than 50 years. Her Broadway career began when, as a virtual unknown, she replaced Ethel Merman, who became her close friend, in Cole Porter's "Anything Goes" in 1935.
        Ms. Venuta went on to leading roles on Broadway in such shows as "By Jupiter," "Nellie Bly," "Hazel Flagg," "Kiss the Boys Goodbye" and "Copper and Brass." She toured and played summer stock and regional theaters in "A Little Night Music," "Bus Stop," "Gypsy," "Come Blow Your Horn," "Auntie Mame," "Light Up the Sky" and "Pal Joey."
        She also performed at Lincoln Center in revivals of "Annie Get Your Gun" and "Carousel."
        In Hollywood, Ms. Venuta appeared in films including "The Fuzzy Pink Nightgown," "Call Me Mister" and "Annie Get Your Gun."
        Ms. Venuta was named Benvenuta Rose Crooke at her birth in San Francisco in 1911.
        In a 1935 interview, she said that when she quit high school to go into show business she "just added a 'ay' to Ben and the rest I guess you can figure."
        Ms. Venuta said her grandfather sent her to a finishing school in Geneva. She dropped out (but not before learning French and Italian), went off to London and came home in 1929 to discover her family was broke.
        "My father was dead, and I had to go to work," she said. "You know the rest -- nightclubs, radio, hoofing -- then this."
        She was speaking of her big break in "Anything Goes."
        For much of her life, Ms. Venuta painted and made sculptures, and for a time in the 1970's her Plexiglas sculptures were sold at Bonwit Teller in Manhattan for $150 to $1,500.
        Ms. Venuta was married and divorced three times.
        In addition to Ms. Winter, she is survived by another daughter, Deborah Herschel, both of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      