
        Olga Ivinskaya, the inspiration for Boris Pasternak's tragic Russian love story, "Doctor Zhivago," died on Friday in Moscow. She was 83.
        Her family said Mrs. Ivinskaya had been suffering from cancer for the last year. She was buried today in a church in central Moscow in a religious service.
        Mrs. Ivinskaya's life was as troubled and complicated as Lara -- her namesake in Pasternak's famous epic set in the turbulent years after the Russian revolution in 1917.
        Born on June 16, 1912, in the central Russian city of Tambov, she had been married twice and was considered a great beauty when she met Pasternak in 1946. An editor at the Novy Mir literary magazine at the time, she became romantically involved with Pasternak, whose work was considered anti-Soviet by Stalin, and continued the affair with him until his death.
        In 1948 Pasternak began work on "Doctor Zhivago," which was to win him the Nobel Prize in Literature a decade later. But in 1949, Mrs. Ivinskaya was arrested and sentenced to five years in prison in what was seen as an attempt to press Pasternak to give up writings critical of the Soviet system. At the time, she was carrying Pasternak's child. The baby died in the prison camp.
        In "A Prisoner of Time," Mrs. Ivinskaya's memoirs that were published abroad when she turned 60, she describes that imprisonment. In her dedication to Pasternak, she wrote: "The greater part of my conscious life has been devoted to you -- and what is left of it will also be devoted to you."
        She was released in 1953 after Stalin's death. But she was sent to the gulag again in 1960, after Pasternak's death, and served four years of an eight-year sentence, apparently to punish her for the relationship. Only in 1988 was Mrs. Ivinskaya finally "rehabilitated," in Gorbachev's increasingly liberal Soviet Union.
        But her trials were still not over. Her later years were blighted by a struggle with the Soviet and later the Russian authorities to regain the love letters and poems Pasternak had written to her, which were snatched when the K.G.B. ransacked Mrs. Ivinskaya's apartment after his death.
        She then became locked in an even more bitter battle with Pasternak's family for the works, which include part of the manuscript for "Doctor Zhivago" and an unfinished play.
        But family scandals have not daunted Russia's love for the writer's most famous love story. The 1965 film "Doctor Zhivago," an epic drama starring Omar Sharif and Julie Christie and the sad strains of "Lara's theme," was screened in Moscow for the first time last year. Thousands of visitors and tourists make the pilgrimage every year to his country house in a village near Moscow where the love affair was carried on in secret.
        A reporter on NTV, the independent television channel here, today compared Mrs. Ivinskaya's role to that of other famous muses for Russian writers. "As Pushkin would not be complete without Anna Kern, and Yesenin would be nothing without Isadora, so Pasternak would not be Pasternak without Olga Ivinskaya, who was his inspiration for 'Doctor Zhivago.' "
      