
        Henry C. Rogers, who transformed the seedy world of the Hollywood press agent into a plush-carpet profession, died on Friday at his home in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles. Mr. Rogers, who built the Rogers & Cowan public relations firm into an entertainment industry giant, was 82.
        The cause of death was a combination of longstanding heart and kidney problems, said his former partner, Warren J. Cowan.
        Mr. Rogers, who was credited with making Rita Hayworth a household name and with creating the sweeping publicity campaigns that have become a fixture of the annual quest for Academy Awards, became almost as well known in Hollywood as the famous clients he represented, among them Audrey Hepburn, Kirk Douglas, Shirley MacLaine, Joan Crawford, Rex Harrison and Gary Cooper.
        He also had the look of Hollywood success: tall, tanned, silver-haired and always impeccably dressed. "He was the Cary Grant of public relations," Mr. Cowan said.
        Mr. Rogers was born in Irvington, N.J., where his father operated a dry goods store. He attended the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce at the University of Pennsylvania, but when his father's store failed during the Depression, he had to drop out of school, and the family relocated to California.
        Mr. Rogers began his career in 1934 as a $5-a-week press agent's office boy. When the job ended, Mr. Rogers, then 21, borrowed $500 from his father to set up his own business in 1935. His first client was a small-time dance team, and his first year's gross was $383.
        It was a time when the movie studios maintained huge publicity departments to promote their stars and contract players, so independents like Mr. Rogers had to scrounge for clients among restaurants, nightclubs and peripheral entertainers, often planting frankly fabricated news items with obliging newspaper columnists who accepted them with a wink.
        "If I did now what I did then," Mr. Rogers said in 1987, "I'd be barred from every news media outlet."
        By 1987, Mr. Rogers who wrote several books of reminiscences, including "Walking the Tightrope" (William Morrow, 1980) and "The One-Hat Solution" (St. Martin's, 1986), was known as the man who elevated industry ethical standards, particularly through his insistence that public relations professionals had as much responsibility to the news media as they did to their clients.
        Still, his major personal breakthrough came in 1939, when he put out a story that Rita Hayworth had been named the best dressed off-screen actress by a nonexistent couturier's group. Although Miss Hayworth, then a struggling young actress, could hardly afford the kind of wardrobe such an award implied, editors at Look magazine spotted the published report and commissioned a lavish photo spread that brought her to national attention.
        His major contribution to the independent public relations industry came in 1945 when he supervised a publicity blitz that was credited with helping Joan Crawford win the Oscar for Best Actress for her role in "Mildred Pierce." He helped accomplish the feat by circulating a self-fulfilling but false rumor that Las Vegas bookmakers had made Miss Crawford the odds-on favorite to win.
        Until then, press agents had been barred from studios. Afterward, they were welcome.
        Mr. Rogers is survived by his wife, Rosalind; a son, Ron; a daughter, Marcia Ross; two sisters, Lillian Washauer and Estelle Morris, and two grandchildren, all of Los Angeles.
      