
        Stefan T. Possony, a scholar of international security affairs who became an influential academic strategist of the cold war, died on April 26 at his home in Los Altos, Calif. He was 82.
        He had suffered a paralyzing stroke in 1985 and was in failing health for the past year, said his wife, Regina Golbinder Possony.
        Mr. Possony worked as a civilian intelligence officer and analyst for the the United States military during and after World War II. In 1961 he became a senior fellow and director of international political studies at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace at Stanford University. He was given emeritus status in 1985.
        A student of power, strategy and political warfare, he was a prolific author. Among his principal interests were international communism and what he considered its efforts to undermine Western democracies.
        In 1965, Congressional investigators asked him to testify on the radicalization of the American campus in light of the student disorders at the University of California at Berkeley. Communists, he told the lawmakers, had turned such scenes into a "spectator sport," but said he doubted that they could control the "radicalinskis" who had forced the pace.
        Stefan Thomas Possony was born in Vienna and earned a doctorate in history and economics at the University of Vienna. He left Austria for Paris in 1939 and helped the French Air Force during the early months of World War II in Europe.
        In 1940, he came to the United States and worked for naval intelligence. After the war he served as a specialist on the Soviet Union and communism for the Air Force and as a consultant to the Eisenhower Administration.
        In 1965, he wrote a much-noted study urging a "forward strategy" to win the war in Vietnam. Among other things, it proposed a commitment of "sufficient American ground forces" to do "the necessary job."
        He was the author of "A Century of Conflict: Communist Techniques of World Revolution" (Regnery, 1953) and "A Forward Strategy for America," with Robert Strausz-Hupe and William Kintner (Regnery, 1961), in which the authors expressed their concern that the United States was losing the cold war.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Possony is survived by a daughter, Andrea Ross; and a sister, Christa Skoda Lanzinger, of Munich.
      