
        Mr. Davies built his international following through publishing more than 30  volumes of fiction, including three trilogies, as well as plays, essays and criticism. He was once mentioned as a potential recipient of the 1993 Nobel Prize in literature, which went instead to the American novelist Toni Morrison.
        Though he retired as an educator more than a decade ago, he had continued to  write in recent years, and his last novel, "The Cunning Man" (Viking, 1995), made the best-seller lists this year. It is a chronicle of personal and social change in Toronto as reflected in the life of a doctor whose brilliant diagnostic skills rest on shamanism and Platonism as well as scientific medicine.
        Mr. Davies was primarily a storyteller concerned with moral conflicts. Beneath its imaginative, enigmatic themes, his work, which was translated into 17 languages, was informed by the philosophy of Carl Jung, with its emphasis on  self-knowledge, creative maturity and wisdom.
        Describing his admiration for the Swiss psychiatrist, Mr. Davies said in 1985: "Jung's thought is very expansive, a sort of opening out of life, whereas  so much psychoanalytical thinking is reductive: getting you back to the womb and a lot of trouble."
        Mr. Davies once said the theme at the core of his work was "the isolation of  the human spirit" and mankind's growth "from innocence to experience." Characters' actions are carried out "on their own volition and usually contrary  to what is expected of them," he remarked. "The characters try to escape from early influences and find their own place in the world but are reluctant to do so in a way that will bring pain and disappointment to others."
        Other concerns in Mr. Davies's work were evil as an expression of suppressed  fears and wishes, the irreversible consequences of actions, and myth, sainthood, ambition, love, vengeance and death. With disarming ease, he could fuse a comedy of manners with Gothic melodrama, blend realism with illusions, and juxtapose low humor and lofty abstractions. Satirizing bourgeois Canadian provincialism was a favorite sport.
        Critics, mostly realists, assailed his mystical style as schematic and accused him of overstressing and overanalyzing the cerebral at the expense of emotions. He was also at times accused of being pedantic, repetitious, vague and antifeminist.
        The tall, flamboyant Mr. Davies was also the editor and publisher of The Peterborough Examiner in Ontario from 1942 to 1962; a professor of English at Massey College, a prestigious postgraduate unit of the University of Toronto, from 1960 to 1981, and master of the college from 1962 to 1981, when he retired.
        He completed three trilogies of novels, set in fictional Ontario villages, that have been reprinted by Penguin paperbacks. The first, called the Salterton  trilogy and written in the 1950's, included "Tempest-Tost," about a bungled amateur staging of Shakespeare's late romance; "Leaven of Malice," arising from  a bogus engagement notice involving two warring families, and "A Mixture of Frailties," focusing on a factory girl transformed into an opera star.
        The Deptford Trilogy, written in the 1970's, included "Fifth Business," "The  Manticore" and "World of Wonders." All three followed the course of lives that were partly defined by a childhood prank in which a boy threw a snowball containing a rock at a classmate but hit a pregnant woman instead. These three novels were considered by some critics and readers his best works.
        The third set of novels, the Cornish Trilogy, was written in the 1980's and includes "The Rebel Angels," "What's Bred in the Bone" and "The Lyre of Orpheus." The novels center on a painter and art forger who was also a spy. The  books satirize gift-giving, foundations and grand opera.
        In 1985, Michiko Kakutani wrote in The New York Times that Mr. Davies "has created a rich oeuvre of densely plotted, highly symbolic novels that not only function as superbly funny entertainments but also give the reader, in his character's words, a deeper kind of pleasure -- delight, awe, religious intimations, 'a fine sense of the past, and of the boundless depth and variety of life.' "
        Mr. Davies's other books included "A Voice From the Attic," the attic being Canada (1960), "One Half of Robertson Davies" (1978), "The Enthusiasms of Robertson Davies" (1979) and "The Papers of Samuel Marchbanks" (1985). Mr. Davies often revived the character of Marchbanks, an irascible old bachelor who  issued blistering opinions about people, particularly Canadians, from his isolated home in Skunk's Misery, Ontario. Mr. Davies created the character in his columns in The Peterborough Examiner.
        In a 1991 novel, "Murther and Walking Spirits," Mr. Davies's narrator is murdered in the first line, and his spirit thereafter moves about, learning of his ancestral Holland, Wales and North America, watching scenes from the dead's  point of view and slowly gaining revenge.
        A frequent composer of epigrams in his work, Mr. Davies once wrote about marriage: "People marry most happily with their own kind. The trouble lies in the fact that people usually marry at an age where they do not really know what  their own kind is." Of the future, he wrote: "The world is full of people whose  notion of a satisfactory future is, in fact, a return to an idealized past."
        William Robertson Davies was born on Aug. 28, 1913, in the southern Ontario town of Thamesville. His parents were William Rupert Davies, a Welshman who became a publisher and Liberal senator, and the former Florence McKay, whose British loyalist family fled to Canada from New York in the American Revolution. Mr. Davies attended Upper Canada College and Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, and he earned a bachelor of letters degree at Balliol College, Oxford.
        He spent two years with the Old Vic theater in London, directing, acting and  teaching, before returning in 1940 to Ontario, where he spent two more years as  the literary editor of Saturday Night, a Toronto magazine. He then began editing The Peterborough Examiner, an evening daily owned by his family, and wrote a column. He also wrote several plays, with little success, and was an active sponsor of the Shakespeare Festival at Stratford, Ontario. He received many awards and honorary degrees and was the first Canadian to be named a member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters.
        In discussing his careers in journalism and education, Mr. Davies was candid. Of newspapers, he once wrote that they "like to represent themselves as wonderfully romantic and hitched into world events," but "they are really an entertainment and manufacturing business. The news is what you can squeeze in before you have to go to press; it's not what's happening in the world."
        As an educator, he said: "I'm a great believer in encouragement. A great number of young people who are very brilliant come from very humble families, and they have to fight family criticism."
      