
        Dr. E. Theodore Bachmann, a Lutheran theologian and church historian, died on Wednesday at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J.  He was 84 and lived in Princeton Junction.
        In nearly six decades as a pastor, Dr. Bachmann showed a deep concern for the unity of his church and its mission work. He had an international career as a teacher, writer and administrator.
        He was best known for the comprehensive "Lutheran Churches in the World: A Handbook" (Augsburg Fortress, 1989), which he compiled with his wife and frequent collaborator, Mercia Brenne Bachmann. The couple wrote the book at the  behest of the Lutheran World Federation in Geneva.
        He translated from the German a hefty biography of Martin Luther by Heinrich  Bornkamm. It was published in 1983 in connection with Luther's 500th birthday observance. At Dr. Bachmann's death, he was completing a history of the United Lutheran Church in America.
        A native of Philadelphia, he was educated mainly in Quaker schools and graduated from Haverford College and the Lutheran Theological Seminary in Philadelphia. He also earned a master's degree at Harvard University and a doctorate in church history at the University of Chicago.
        After World War II, he was active in Europe, working with the World Council of Churches in Geneva and then as the liaison with the German Evangelical Church for the American military government. In the 1960's he served the newly merged Lutheran Church in America as an executive in the areas of college education, church vocation and theological education.
        He was the author of many articles and several books, particularly on historical and ecumenical subjects. Working in Geneva in the 1970's, he edited Lutheran World, the quarterly of the Lutheran World Federation, and its German edition, Lutherische Rundschau.
        Beside his wife of 54 years, Dr. Bachmann is survived by a son, Frederick B., of Vimmerby, Sweden; a daughter, Mary L. Bachmann of Manhattan, and two granddaughters.
      