
        Stanley Adelman, whose Upper West Side typewriter-repair shop served as an intensive-care unit for the malfunctioning margin releases and cantankerous carriage returns of well-known writers, died yesterday at the Washington Adventist Hospital in Takoma Park, Md. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said. He had had health problems since a bicycle accident in Putnam Valley, N.Y., in 1984 left him unable to speak.
        Mr. Adelman's customers lionized him for keeping their old-fashioned, mostly manual machines tapping along in the computer age. Over the years, he tended the typewriters of everyone from Isaac Bashevis Singer to David Mamet.
        Alfred Kazin, Erich Maria Remarque, Roger Kahn, Philip Roth and Murray Schisgal turned out books, articles and plays on machines that he cleaned, oiled and fixed when keys stuck or carriages jammed. And at least one customer wrote him into a novel.
        "Mr. Adelman had nearly wept when I had shown up at his shop on Amsterdam with my hammered, ruined Olympia," David Handler wrote in the 1991 novel "The Man Who Would Be F. Scott Fitzgerald." "It was he who had sold it to me and lovingly maintained it through the years. I begged him to save it. He'd said he  was a typewriter man, not a magician."
        Mr. Handler continued: "He was a magician. It shone like new there, now on his counter, straining for action. He shone, too, a proud craftsman of the old, old school. Before he would let me take it home, he made me swear I'd never run over it again with the Jeep or whatever I had done to it."
        Mr. Adelman filled a bookshelf with volumes by authors whose carriages he helped keep moving smoothly from left to right, except on right-to-left Yiddish  machines. It helped that Mr. Adelman was fluent in Yiddish and Polish -- he had  been born in Dabrowa Gornicza, Poland -- as well as German and Russian. But he could figure out typewriters in languages he did not read, like Arabic, from keyboard diagrams.
        Whether they were casual hunters and peckers or machine-gun touch typists, Mr. Adelman's customers valued his over-the-counter advice. One client was Howard Fast, the author of more than 70 novels.
        "When I got married in 1937, my wife and I spent our last $35 on an Underwood upright," Mr. Fast said last year. "The 1937 Underwood was one of the great machines of the 20th century. But about 12, 14 years ago, the Adelmans couldn't  find any more parts for it."
        Choosing a replacement raised an emotional issue when Mr. Adelman suggested a 1949 Olympia.
        "I felt as a Jew I could not write on a German typewriter," Mr. Fast said, recalling his conversation. "He said: 'I was in a concentration camp. If I can sell that typewriter, you can write on it.' That sold me."
        Mr. Adelman, who had been held in five camps in World War II, learned to repair typewriters in Munich after he was freed. Before the war, he had planned  on a career as a marine engineer. But the clackety machines he toiled over were  a bridge to literature and politics.
        Arriving in New York in 1949, he mastered English by reading "The Red Badge of Courage" by Stephen Crane, but typewriter-repair jobs were hard to come by. He did construction work, lugging steel beams.
        In 1951, he met Karl Osner, who owned a typewriter shop on Amsterdam Avenue.  Mr. Osner had spent much of World War II in an internment camp in France. His one employee wanted to be painter, and one day, Mr. Osner called Mr. Adelman and said: "You have a job."
        Mr. Osner made him a partner in 1961 and sold him the shop when he retired in 1968.
        Mr. Adelman is survived by his wife, Mary; two daughters, Frederica Adelman Gulezian of Takoma Park, Md., and Anne Adelman Taswell of New Haven, and a grandson.
      