
        Charles Gillett, who was credited with creating the Big Apple tourism campaign when he was president of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, died on Monday at his home in Great Neck, L.I. He was 80 and also lived in Palm  Beach, Fla.
        The cause was a heart attack, the bureau said.
        Mr. Gillett worked for the bureau for more than 40 years and was its president from 1964 until he retired in 1988. He helped to plan such tourist events as the 100th anniversaries of the Brooklyn Bridge and the Statue of Liberty, and the bicentennial visit of tall ships in 1976.
        He was also involved in negotiations to bring the Democratic National Convention to Madison Square Garden in 1976, the first national political convention held in New York since 1924.
        But perhaps his greatest success came with turning the term "Big Apple" into  a tourist draw. A jazz fan, he remembered that musicians in the 1920's and 30's  had an expression for playing the big time after gigs in one-horse towns: "There are many apples on the tree, but when you pick New York City, you pick the Big Apple." Damon Runyon had popularized the term in the 1920's.
        By the early 1970's, New York City was facing a fiscal crisis and nightclub comedians and television talk-show hosts were getting big laughs from jokes about New York. Mr. Gillett started handing out Big Apple lapel stickers.
        Soon Tom Snyder, who was a news anchor on WNBC-TV at the time, was wearing one on the air, and the comedian Alan King and the New York Knicks star Dave DeBusschere were passing out the little red pins.
        Mr. Gillett's duties as head of the not-for-profit bureau went well beyond cheerleading. He was, in effect, the city's chief salesman for tourism, fighting for conventions and the hotel and restaurant revenues they generate. Sometimes the negotiations for conventions also generated headlines, as when the American  Medical Association agreed to return to New York in 1976.
        In making his case to the A.M.A., Mr. Gillett had consulted the bureau's files, which showed, convention sponsor by convention sponsor, who made the decisions about where conventions were held, what those people thought about New York and what problems may have kept them out of New York in the past.
        When he retired, he received the first New York State Governor's Award. Gov.  Mario M. Cuomo cited Mr. Gillett's "long and distinguished service in promoting  New York as the premier travel destination in the world" and for moving the bureau into the front ranks of local travel promotion agencies.
        He was a former chairman of the Travel Industry Association of America, a past president of the International Association of Convention and Visitors Bureaus and served on the advisory board of the United States Travel and Tourism Administration. He was elected to the American Society of Travel Agents' Hall of Fame, and was a delegate to the 1995 White House Conference on Travel and Tourism.
        Mr. Gillett graduated in 1937 from the University of Cincinnati, which in the 1980's gave him its Award for Excellence for developing tourism as a social and  economic force. He served as a captain with the Ninth Armored Division in World  War II and was awarded the Bronze Star.
        He is survived by his wife, Virginia; one daughter, Valerie, of Manhattan; two sons, David, of Mendocino, Calif., and Peter, of Felton, Calif., and one granddaughter.
      