
        Thomas L. Washington, a Michigan conservationist and outdoorsman who for the  last 18 months was the sometimes embattled president of the National Rifle Association, died yesterday at a hospital in Dearborn, Mich. He was 58 and had been hospitalized since he had a heart attack while hunting deer on Nov. 16.
        Although he was long outspoken in his belief that the Constitution should and does guarantee a right to own guns, Mr. Washington, whose unpaid N.R.A. position was largely honorary, was not always as outspoken as some N.R.A. members would have liked.
        Still, he did his duty this year when a fund-raising letter sent by an N.R.A. official to the group's 3.5 million members created a furor in the wake of the Oklahoma City bombing by denouncing some Federal agents as "jackbooted Government thugs."
        When former President George Bush cited the letter in repudiating his N.R.A.  membership, Mr. Washington put his name on a public letter to Mr. Bush, distancing himself from what Mr. Bush and others had perceived as inflammatory language, while defending the fund-raising letter's underlying point.
        The N.R.A., Mr. Washington said, had documented instances in which Federal agents had operated as "black-suited, masked, massively armed mobs of screaming, swearing agents invading the homes of innocents."
        The letter did not prompt Mr. Bush to change his mind, but it may have insulated Mr. Washington from criticism within N.R.A. ranks that because of his background as an outdoorsman and his emphasis on the rights of hunters he was not aggressive enough in defending the presumed right of all Americans to own virtually any firearm, including combat weapons.
        In any event, Mr. Washington survived a move to depose him after the first of an N.R.A. president's usual two one-year terms and was re-elected for a term running until next April.
        The furor over the fund-raising letter tended to obscure some of Mr. Washington's other achievements as an N.R.A. board member and officer since the  mid-1980's. Among other things, he was credited with helping to expand programs  for hunter services and wildlife management, to establish a new program of hunter education for young people and to build the N.R.A.'s modern new headquarters in Fairfax, Va.
        Long before he made it to the upper councils of the N.R.A., Mr. Washington made a name as a conservationist in Michigan, largely through his full-time position as executive director of Michigan United Conservation Clubs.
        A native of Detroit who joined Michigan United in 1966, Mr. Washington was regarded as one of the state's most effective lobbyists, having helped obtain a bill restricting highway billboards and having led the fight to establish the  Michigan Natural Resources Trust Fund, which uses royalties from state mineral production to buy land for recreation.
        He was also a pioneer in efforts to ban nonreturnable bottles and cans, having led the drive that in 1976 made Michigan the first state to enact such a  ban.
        Mr. Washington, who lived in Lansing, is survived by his wife, Joanne, and six children, Miriam, David, Heidi, Susan, Steven and Christy.
      