
        Col. Gen. Dmitri A. Volkogonov, a Soviet Army historian who lost his illusions about Communism and helped strip his countrymen of theirs, died today  in Moscow of stomach cancer. He was 67.
        General Volkogonov's biographies of Stalin, Trotsky and Lenin, based on secret documents that he had unique access to in the 1970's and 1980's as chief  of the military's psychological warfare department, forced Russians to face the  harsh truth about their leaders.
        General Volkogonov began his career as a loyal party member, teaching Marxist-Leninist propaganda, and ended it as a ferocious anti-Communist.
        A liberal member of Parliament and a military adviser to President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, General Volkogonov lost favor in the Kremlin by opposing the  war in Chechnya.
        Even after Communism collapsed, Russian military men never forgave him for what they saw as his treachery. But today, the lower house of Parliament stood in silence to pay a final tribute to the man who called himself "the black sheep" of Soviet generals.
        General Volkogonov's biography of Stalin, which was banned by the Communist Party Central Committee when he completed it in 1983, created a furor when it was published in 1988 under Mikhail S. Gorbachev's policy of glasnost. His expose of Lenin, based on 3,724 top secret documents and published in 1991, was almost as as controversial because it painted the Bolshevik leader, whom many still revered, as ruthless and immoral. "Lenin was the antichrist," General Volkogonov once said. All Russia's great troubles stemmed from Lenin."
        Passionately outspoken about Russian history, General Volkogonov occasionally caused a stir in the United States as well.
        In 1992, he wrote a letter saying there was no evidence in K.G.B. archives that Alger Hiss was a spy, which was read as an exoneration by the defenders of  Mr. Hiss. The attendant furor in the United States forced the historian to retract his statement and concede that he had not examined all the files.
        Appointed the Russian chairman of the U.S.-Russia Joint Commission on Prisoners of Wars and Missing in Action in 1992, General Volkogonov was often in American newspaper headlines with tantalizing scraps of information about United States servicemen either missing in Vietnam or held prisoner in Russia during the cold war. None were ever found.
        In 1937, when he was 8, General Volkogonov's father was shot in Stalin's purges and his mother was sent to a labor camp. He embraced the Soviet Army as his family when he was 18 and traveled to Angola, Ethiopia, the Middle East and Afghanistan as head of the department of psychological warfare. But even as  he was indoctrinating troops in Communist orthodoxy, General Volkogonov was struggling with private doubts based on the horrors he discovered hidden in the  archives.
        As director of the Military History Institute, he oversaw the writing of a planned 10-volume official Soviet history of World War II. But he was dismissed  in 1991 when the first volume blamed Stalin for almost losing the war against Hitler. He then joined forces with Mr. Yeltsin, who was then President of Russia and leader of the anti-Communist movement.
        Throughout his illness, General Volkogonov contined to work furiously to complete his last angry look at the past, a biography of the seven leaders who ran the Soviet Union for 74 years, entitled "Seven Portraits," which will be published in Russia later this month.
        In an interview with The New York Times last July, General Volkogonov said, "The only thing I can be proud of -- the greatest merit of my life -- is that I  was able to fundamentally alter my views."
      