
        Dr. William S. Kroger, a pioneer and longtime champion of the medical uses of hypnosis, died on Monday at Cedars Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 89 and  lived in Los Angeles.
        A native of Chicago who obtained his medical training at Northwestern University, Dr. Kroger specialized in obstetrics, gynecology and endocrinology until he became intrigued by the psychosomatic causes of many illnesses he encountered.
        This, in turn, led him to become a psychiatrist and to use hypnosis to deal  with the psychological components of many disorders, particularly the pain of child birth.
        At a time when hypnosis was regarded as little more than a potentially dangerous parlor trick, Dr. Kroger's extensive writings and demonstrations gradually won the confidence of the medical establishment.
        In one of his most dramatic demonstrations, captured on movie film, he removed a woman's thyroid gland while using hypnosis as the sole anesthesia. Upon being awakened after the surgery, the woman is seen getting up from the operating table and walking to her room.
        Partly as a result of Dr. Kroger's efforts, the American Medical Association  embraced a limited use of hypnosis in 1958, declaring it a valid therapeutic modality when used by properly trained physicians.
        Dr. Kroger, who taught at the University of Illinois and the University of Chicago in the 1940's and 1950's, later moved to California, where he used hypnosis to help law-enforcement agencies.
        In one of his most dramatic successes, he used hypnosis in 1977 to help a school bus driver in Chowchilla, Calif., remember all but one digit of the license plate of a van used by three men who had abducted the driver and 26 children and buried them in a moving van 100 miles away. The information helped  the Federal Bureau of Investigation identify and track down the kidnappers.
        Dr. Kroger is survived by his wife, Jimmy Louise; three daughters, Carol Kroger and Lisa Robin Eitani of Los Angeles and Debra Sue Lesser of Cresskill, N.J.; a son, William Jr., of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      