
        Dr. Herschel Harold Hobbs, a former president of the Southern Baptist Convention and chairman of the committee that wrote the latest statement of church doctrine, died on Tuesday at Baptist Hospital in Oklahoma City. He was 88 and lived in Oklahoma City.
        Dr. Hobbs, one of his church's leading theologians, was the author of many books, including an autobiography published two years ago. In it he stated that  he was first and foremost a pastor and would remain one if he had 10,000 lives to live.
        His base was the First Baptist Church in Oklahoma City, where he preached from 1949 to 1972. He was named pastor emeritus a year later.
        Dr. Hobbs served two terms, from 1961 to 1963, as president of the Southern Baptist Convention and leader of 10 million Baptists. It was a contentious time  when his church seemed headed for open schism between fundamentalists and a more liberal wing over just how literally the Bible must be interpreted. The convention avoided the split by not bringing the most divisive issues to the floor.
        He was also a vice president of the Baptist World Alliance from 1965 to 1970.
        But he was best known as chairman of the panel that drew up a revision of the Baptist Faith and Message statement. The document, which was adopted by the convention in 1963, became the nearest thing to a creedal statement ever issued  by the Southern Baptists.
        At his death, he had just completed a manuscript on that revision. It will be published next year to serve as the 1997 study book on the Baptist Faith and Message doctrine.
        His column, "Baptist Beliefs," was carried regularly by the weekly Baptist Messenger of Oklahoma City and other Baptist papers. For many years his sermons  were also broadcast weekly over hundreds of radio stations on "The Baptist Hour."
        Herschel Hobbs was born at Talladega Springs, Ala. He made his profession of  faith at 11, was baptized in a local creek and answered the call to preach at 19. He graduated from Howard College, now Samford University, in Birmingham, Ala., received a master's in theology from Southern Seminary and earned a Ph.D.  in New Testament interpretation at Southern Seminary in 1938.
        Ordained in 1929 in Birmingham, he held several other pulpits before being named pastor of the First Baptist Church in Oklahoma.
        Dr. Hobbs's wife of 57 years, Frances Jackson Hobbs, died in 1984. He is survived by a son, Jerry, of Houston; two grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      