
        Robert Fizdale, a pianist, biographer, gastronome and for more than 30 years  a partner in the piano duo known as Gold and Fizdale, died on Wednesday in Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease.
        Mr. Fizdale and Arthur Gold, who died in 1990, brought a seamless perfection to Mozart's two-piano works. They expressed an inimitable joie de vivre in Brahms's "Liebeslieder" waltzes for two pianos and four voices, rediscovered and revived two early two-piano concertos by Mendelssohn and won praise for their rendition of Bartok's redoubtable Concerto for Two Pianos and Percussion.
        But what they really liked was to persuade living composers to write something new for them. Their New York debut recital at the New School for Social Research in 1944 was an evening of music by John Cage that included two works written for the occasion.
        Over the next 20 and more years they became as well known in Paris and Rome as in New York. Francis Poulenc wrote a sonata for them. Darius Milhaud, Georges Auric, Henri Sauguet and Germaine Tailleferre also wrote for them. So did Virgil Thomson, Samuel Barber and Ned Rorem in the United States and Luciano Berio in Italy.
        In 1982 an arthritic finger forced Mr. Fizdale to retire from the concert platform. He and Mr. Gold had already begun a second career as biographers, first in 1980 with a book about Misia Sert, an intimate friend of Diaghilev, and again in 1991 with "The Divine Sarah: A Life of Sarah Bernhardt." Both books reflected their deep knowledge of France and the French.
        Robert Fizdale was born in Chicago on April 12, 1920, the son of Russian immigrants. Music ran in his family; his grandfather, at 13, played the flute in the service of Czar Nicholas II. Young Robert showed a marked talent for performance, both in music and in amateur theatricals. At the American Conservatory of Music in Chicago, he studied piano under Louise Robyn, and won a scholarship to the Juilliard School in New York, where he arrived in 1939 and studied under Ernst Hutchinson.
        It was while he was at Juilliard that he met Mr. Gold, who was also a student, with whom he was to found a piano duo in 1943. Based on congruity of taste, it was a true marriage of musical minds.
        In their homes in Water Mill, L.I., and Manhattan, Mr. Fizdale and Mr. Gold practiced a truly Russian style of hospitality. As one old friend said, "With very little money, they showed the rich how to live."
        In 1984 they published their "Gold and Fizdale Cookbook." As witty as it is practical, it is part manual, part autobiography. Marianne Moore and Elizabeth Bishop, among poets, George Balanchine and Jerome Robbins, among men of the theater, and Louis Begley, among novelists, were among those who delighted in their food.
        One of their unfinished projects was a long series of interviews with Balanchine, with whom they shared a lifelong passion for cooking and a love of ballet.
        The French Government appointed Mr. Fizdale a Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres.
        He is survived by a brother, Walter, of Chicago.
      