
        Rajat Neogy, the Ugandan-born founder of Transition, a magazine that became influential in Africa, died on Dec. 3 at his home in San Francisco, where he settled two decades ago. He was 57.
        He had been in declining health and had inflammation of the pancreas, his daughter Renu Neogy said.
        Mr. Neogy (pronounced Nee-OH-ghee) was of Indian origin and grew up in Kampala, Uganda. After studies in London, he returned to Uganda, where, in 1961, he became Transition's editor as well as founder. The magazine swiftly became the leading journal of freely expressed opinion among the newly independent countries of Africa.
        Henry Louis Gates Jr., the W. E. B. Du Bois Professor of the Humanities at Harvard University, said on Saturday: "This man created an African-based journal of letters that everybody in the intellectual world, it seemed, was excited about. He fought fascism in blackface, and that was rare and courageous."
        In 1968, Mr. Neogy was arrested and charged with sedition for criticism of the Ugandan Government in Transition. After half a year in detention, he was acquitted and released.
        He left Uganda in 1969 and in 1970 moved to Ghana, where he published Transition for several years. Then he ended his connection with the magazine and moved to the United States. He did some writing in San Francisco and also founded a short-lived neighborhood newspaper.
        Transition was edited and published in the mid-1970's in Ghana and England by Wole Soyinka, a Nigerian who won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1986. The magazine ceased publication when funds ran out, but in 1991 it was revived as a  quarterly international journal, published in the United States, with Africa as  its focus.
        The magazine's revival was organized by Professor Gates, Mr. Soyinka and Kwame Anthony Appiah, a Ghanaian essayist and novelist who also teaches at Harvard. All three had been profoundly influenced by the magazine in earlier years.
        Mr. Neogy's daughter Renu, of Oakland, Calif., said his 1960 marriage to Charlotte Bystrom ended in divorce in 1965. His marriage to Barbara Lapcek later in 1965 ended in divorce after a decade. Ms. Neogy said that after moving to the United States he was married and divorced a third time, under Muslim but not secular law, to and from Djamilla McNutt.
        Ms. Neogy said his other survivors include four sons, Gardar Larusson of Reykjavik, Iceland; Siddharta and Erisa Neogy of Pondicherry, India; and Kamal Neogy of Sonoma, Calif.; and two other daughters, Tayu Neogy of Manhattan and Ayisha Neogy of Sonoma; a granddaughter; and his mother, Sumitra Neogy of Dartmouth, Nova Scotia.
      