
        Dr. Julian Szekely, a metallurgist and professor of materials engineering at  the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Thursday at the M.I.T. In-Patient Unit in Cambridge. Dr. Szekely was 61 and lived in Weston, Mass.
        The cause was cancer, said an M.I.T. spokesman, Charles Ball.
        Dr. Szekely, a native of Budapest, was best known for his role in creating mathematical methods to analyze how economics, technology and the environment are involved in the production of metals.
        He developed a comprehensive mathematical model of fluid flow, electromagnetics and heat transfer in metal processing. He wrote or contributed  to seven textbooks and hundreds of papers and, as a consultant, he helped the steel industry look for new technologies, greater efficiency and less pollution.
        His work covered a wide range of subjects, like gas-solid reactions, the flow and mix of fluids in steel-processing and various phenomena in blast furnaces, welding, and electromagnetic processing. His latest research focused on welding  and soldering problems in metal processing.
        He also produced the mathematical model for a complex microgravity experiment that was performed on a space shuttle last year and is to be done again in 1997.
        Many leading researchers in metal processing, in this country and abroad, had been his students.
        In August he helped organize a meeting in Austria of top steel executives at  which the future of steelmaking was debated and contacts were sponsored among equipment manufacturers and steelmakers around the world.
        Dr. Szekely was a 1959 science graduate of Imperial College in London, where  he also earned his Ph.D. in chemical engineering in 1961. He taught at Imperial  College before coming to the United States in 1966 to join the faculty of the State University of New York at Buffalo. He became a professor in the department of materials science and engineering at M.I.T. 20 years ago.
        Dr. Szekely is survived by his wife of 32 years, Joy; four sons, M. Thomas, of Telluride, Colo., and Richard J., M. Tarquin and David A., all of Weston; a daughter, Rebecca, of Washington, and an aunt, Lilo Racz of Budapest.
      