
        Dr. Leonidas Harris Berry, a specialist in diseases of the digestive tract who dedicated himself to bringing medical care to black communities that had none, died on Dec. 4 at his home in Chicago. He was 93.
        In 1946, Dr. Berry became the first black physician to join the staff of Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago and the first black internist at Cook County Hospital there. He retired in 1975 as chief of endoscopy service and senior attending physician at Cook County.
        He was also one of the first black doctors to be admitted to the American Medical Association and served as president of the National Medical Association, a mainly black organization, in the mid-1960's.
        Dr. Berry served black communities in Illinois and Alabama that in some cases had never seen a doctor. He also set up innovative drug treatment clinics in Chicago.
        In the 1960's he was active in the United Front, a black civil rights group in Cairo, Ill. Front members contributed money and raised contributions for education, legal defense, housing and other needs in Cairo, a small town at the  southern tip of Illinois, and organized the Flying Black Medics, which flew medical supplies, nurses, doctors, social workers, dietitians and paramedics to  Cairo from Chicago.
        Dr. Berry was born in Woodsdale, N.C., the son of Llewellyn L. Berry, a minister in the African Methodist Episcopal Church. He was a science graduate of Wilberforce College in Ohio and received his medical degree at the University of Chicago in 1929.
        He wrote an authoritative textbook, "Gastrointestinal Pan-Endoscopy" (Charles C. Thomas, 1974), and wrote or contributed to 84 articles in medical journals and 12 other books and monographs.
        He was the first doctor to perform gastroscopies, operations involving instruments with which doctors can see inside the digestive tract, at several Chicago hospitals in the 1930's and 1940's. He also devised a gastroscopic instrument.
        He is survived by a daughter, Judith B. Griffin of Boston; a brother, Elbert  J., of Hollis, Queens; two sisters, Gladys B. Yates and Geraldine V. Berry, both of Detroit, and four grandchildren.
      