
        Irwin Tobin, a former director of the Bureau of Health and Physical Education for New York City's public schools, died on Monday at New York University Hospital. He was 71 and lived in Valley Stream, L.I.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        In his citywide position, he helped expand extracurricular programs in varsity sports and started the wrestling program in the city's high schools. His contributions were recognized with the creation of an Irwin Tobin Physical Education Award given yearly to the outstanding student-athlete in each of the secondary schools.
        During his tenure as head of physcial education from 1968 to 1979, he faced a continuous struggle to get his programs financed by a City Council and Board of  Estimate that failed to see the value of such activities, in his opinion.
        "I feel frustrated," he testified at a hearing in 1970. "All our sincere attempts to build up a good athletic program, which would help combat the problems of drug addiction and dropouts, are being shoved aside in almost cavalier fashion."
        In another struggle, Mr. Tobin prevailed upon the city's Board of Education in 1969 to change the part of a 53-year-old policy that kept high-school girls from competing in interscholastic sports. The board had made its ruling in 1916  partly on the ground that girls were "too emotionally unstable" to compete. In persuading the board to relent, Mr. Tobin urged it to "take advantage of modern  thought."
        Mr. Tobin left his school post in 1979 to become director of public education for the New York City chapter of the March of Dimes. He retired two years ago.
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Tobin graduated from Brooklyn College and received a master's degree in education from New York University. He joined the city's public school system in 1948 as a teacher. Ten years later, he was appointed chairman of health and physical education at Sheepshead Bay High School.
        He is survived by his wife of 45 years, Shirley Neitzberg Tobin; a son, Evan, of Manhattan, and Alta, Utah; a daughter, Linda Kettering, also of Valley Stream, and two grandchildren.
      