
        Karl Schrag, a German-born American painter and printmaker whose work combined aspects of European and American modernism, died on Sunday at his home  in Manhattan. He was 82 and also had a home on Deer Isle, Me.
        In a career that spanned more than 60 years, Mr. Schrag came to specialize in a painting style characterized by loose, energetic brushwork and resonant colors that restated the concerns of van Gogh, Matisse and Kirchner in contemporary terms.
        Although he made many self-portraits, his stronger works were paintings and  prints of gently pastoral landscapes inspired by his many summers in Maine, works whose cascading strokes and visionary demeanor often brought to mind the art of Charles Burchfield.
        Mr. Schrag was born in Karlsruhe, Germany, in 1912, the son of a prominent lawyer, and settled on his vocation while still a teen-ager. After his family moved to Zurich in 1930, he studied art in Geneva and then in Paris, where his teachers included Roger Bissiere. He came to New York in 1938, continuing his studies at the Art Students League.
        Mr. Schrag had his first solo show in New York in 1947 at the Kraushaar Gallery, which represented him for the rest of his life. In the late 1940's, he  made prints at Stanley William Hayter's Atelier 17, working alongside artists like Miro and Jackson Pollock and mastering a wide array of print media. He taught printmaking at Brooklyn College from 1953 to 1954 and at Cooper Union from 1954 to 1968.
        Mr. Schrag had his first retrospective at the Brooklyn Museum in 1960, and his most recent at the Farnsworth Art Museum in Rockland, Me., in 1992. He is represented in museums across the United States and in Europe, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the Brooklyn Museum, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the British Museum in London and the Uffizi Gallery in Florence.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ilse Szamatolski; a son, Peter, of Manhattan; a daughter, Katherine Schrag-Wangh of Auburndale, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      