
        Vincent S. Baker, who devoted his life to keeping black history alive while pursuing a vision of a bias-free Harlem society, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center. A lifelong resident of Harlem, he was 75.
        His sister Ruth Baker Harwell said the cause was a heart attack.
        Until triple bypass surgery slowed him down a bit six years ago, Mr. Baker,  who had been legally blind since he was an infant, was a familiar Harlem presence. He was the man who would whip up a newspaper column or deliver a riveting lecture at the least provocation and who was forever showing filmed re-enactments of the great moments of black history at schools, churches, political meetings or anywhere else Harlem residents might gather.
        To Mr. Baker, who was president of the Manhattan chapter of the Association for the Study of Afro-American Life and History, black history was not something simply to preserve and popularize but to improve.
        From the time he joined the Modern Way social action group that turned its meeting place, the 135th Street Y.M.C.A., into a freewheeling debating society in the 1940's, Mr. Baker was in the thick of virtually every campaign against discrimination.
        Curiously, his sister said, for all his passion, Mr. Baker had no direct experience of racial discrimination.
        "He couldn't see it," she said, "but he heard about it from others."
        Mr. Baker, who could not see beyond a few inches, needed the assistance of a  reader to get through New York University. After graduation, he became a door-to-door salesman, memorizing spiels for everything from butter and eggs to  brushes, cosmetics and his sometimes startling political ideas.
        "He was a Republican," his sister said, noting that in the overwhelmingly Democratic Harlem neighborhood her brother had no chance in his only political campaign, as the Republican nominee for the State Assembly in 1950.
        For years, he operated Sterling Artists, which distributed literature, audio  materials and films on black history, some produced by Mr. Baker, among them what he described as the first movie about Harriet Tubman, the former slave who  was a key figure in the Underground Railroad.
        In addition to Mrs. Harwell of Manhattan, Mr. Baker is survived by another sister, Edith Baker Brewer of Medford, Mass.
      