
        Andrew Lytle, an author, critic, teacher and raconteur and the last of the 12 Southern writers who banded together in the 1920's to form the Agrarian movement, died on Tuesday at his cabin in Monteagle, Tenn. He was 92.
        Although he was overshadowed by such Agrarians as Robert Penn Warren, John Crowe Ransom, Donald Davidson and Allen Tate, Mr. Lytle is considered to have more than earned his chapter in "I'll Take My Stand," their 1930 manifesto warning of the perils of industrialization and urbanization.
        More so than the others, Mr. Lytle, whose essay, "The Hind Tit," was a paean to the small farm, actually lived the agrarian tradition. The only real farmer in the group, he ran a series of family-owned farms and tended a garden that supplied virtually all the produce for his table until he was well into his 80's.
        As an author, Mr. Lytle was a writer's writer, one whose finely honed intricate tales tended to win more critical praise than popular acclaim. His first novel, "The Long Night" (1936), and "At the Moon's Inn" (1947) were both well received, but it is "The Velvet Horn," (1957) that is regarded as his masterpiece.
        A member of a family that had been prominent and generally prosperous since Colonial days, Mr. Lytle was born in Murfreesboro, Tenn. He graduated from Vanderbilt in 1925.  He later attended Oxford and studied drama at Yale.
        He made good use of his dramatic training, first by supporting himself as a Broadway actor while he was a struggling young writer. Later he became such a fabled storyteller that people who were asked to repeat his tales, often based on events in his large family, tended to respond, "You wouldn't appreciate it unless Andrew was telling it."
        During his undergraduate days Mr. Lytle had gravitated to the group of poets  at Vanderbilt University known as the Fugitives (so named mainly because they saw themselves as fleeing 19th-century poetic traditions). Although they relished his company as a drinking companion and conversationalist, his few slight poetic efforts did not qualify him for full membership.
        When some of the Fugitives reconstituted themselves as social critics to counter what they saw as the slander heaped on Tennessee and the South after the Scopes "monkey trial" of 1925, Mr. Lytle became a charter member of the Agrarians.
        Although their manifesto drew wide criticism, they are now regarded in some quarters to have been prophets before their time. They warned, for example, of widespread damage to the environment and a breakdown in social order if industrialization and urbanization were not checked.
        In a peripatetic academic career that included stints at Vanderbilt, the universities of Florida, Iowa and Kentucky as well as Kenyon College and the University of the South in Sewanee, Tenn., Mr. Lytle taught several prominent writers, among them Flannery O'Connor and Harry Crews.
        As the longtime editor of The Sewanee Review, he was credited with transforming what had been a sleepy academic publication into one of the nation's leading and most innovative literary qualities.
        He is survived by two daughters, Pamela Law of Nashville and Langdon Chamberlain of St. Andrews, Tenn.; a sister, Polly Darwin, of Huntsville, Ala.,  and 5 grandchildren.
      