
        David Marshall, one of the founding fathers of Singapore and one of the last  Singaporeans brave enough to speak up against the authoritarian Government now running the city-state, died on Tuesday at his home in Singapore. He was 87.
        He had been suffering from lung cancer, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Marshall, who gained early fame for his passionate oratory as a criminal defense lawyer, was chief minister in Singapore's first elected Government in 1955. He resigned the next year when talks broke down with Britain over terms for self-government for the former British colony.
        Although he lost his parliamentary seat a few years later and eventually returned to the law, Mr. Marshall remained a stinging critic of the People's Action Party, which took power in 1959 under the leadership of Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew.
        Mr. Lee retired as Prime Minister in 1990 but in his new role as Senior Minister he is still considered the most powerful man in Singapore, and his party retains a tight hold on the reins of Government, silencing critics through defamation suits and other forms of intimidation.
        While Mr. Marshall was always careful in public settings to praise Mr. Lee and his party for converting Singapore into one of the most prosperous nations in Asia, he would also condemn their repressive tactics, using language that few others in Singapore would dare even consider.
        "I stand in awe, genuine awe, of what they have achieved," Mr. Marshall said  last year of the People's Action Party. But the country's economic progress was  achieved at the cost of a sense of humanity, he said, describing Mr. Lee as "at  base a fascist" and Singapore as a nation with a "plastic heart."
        Mr. Marshall was one of only a handful of Singaporeans willing to criticize the Government publicly over the caning last year of an American teen-ager, Michael P. Fay, who had pleaded guilty to vandalism. He said the lashing was "grossly excessive."
        He often belittled Mr. Lee's assertion that there should be different standards for human rights in Asia and the West. In a letter last year that the  Government-run newspaper, The Straits Times, refused to publish, Mr. Marshall noted that authoritarianism had repeatedly brought chaos to China.
        "We should keep in mind the horrors of the Cultural Revolution, brought about by the cult of subservience to authority and primacy of society over the individual, before we point the accusing finger at those who believe that respect for the individual is the basis of human civilization," he wrote.
        Mr. Marshall, the son of Orthodox Jewish immigrants from Iraq, was born in Singapore in 1908 and earned a law degree in Britain. A soldier in the colonial  army in World War II, he was taken captive by Japanese forces in 1942 and was forced to work in the coal mines of Hokkaido, Japan.
        He was freed in 1945 and returned home, where he was quickly recognized as the most effective criminal defense lawyer in Singapore, winning over juries in  what appeared to be hopeless cases.
        It was commonly said in legal circles that "Marshall never loses," and his success in the courtroom was cited by the People's Action Party when it eventually decided to abolish the jury system.
        His involvement in the movement against British colonial rule led him into politics, and in 1955, he came to power as chief minister when his Labor Front party swept to power in elections for a transitional government.
        He remained active in opposition politics until 1972, when he was accused by  the local bar association of misconduct -- supporters said the case was entirely trumped up -- over his defense of a group of newspaper executives detained under Singapore's draconian internal security laws.
        It was a sign of the high regard still held for Mr. Marshall that in 1978 he  was made Ambassador to France, a post he held until two years ago, when he returned to Singapore and returned to work in a law firm. Many Singaporeans say  Mr. Marshall was given the post in France in order to get him out of the country -- and away from political debate.
        There was an outpouring of tributes to Mr. Marshall this week, including several from members of the People's Action Party. "He has contributed much in the service of Singapore," said Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong, who praised Mr. Marshall for his "wit, insight and eloquence." Deputy Prime Minister Tony Tan said Mr. Marshall was "a great man."
        Mr. Goh's predecessor, Mr. Lee, was notably silent. A spokesman for Mr. Lee said today that the former Prime Minister had so far issued no statement about the death of his great rival.
        Mr. Marshall is survived by his wife, Jean, and their four children, Ruth, Sara, Joanna and Jonathan.
      