
        Hector (Toe) Blake, the crusty Montreal Canadien who left his name on the Stanley Cup 11 times, including a record eight coaching championships, died yesterday at a Montreal nursing home. He was 82.
        He had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease, the Canadiens said.
        By the time he took over as coach of the Canadiens in 1955, Blake, whose nickname came from a little sister unable to pronounce Hector, was already a hockey legend in Canada. As a player, he had been with Stanley Cup champions 3 times in 14 National Hockey League seasons, with the old Montreal Maroons, in 1935, and twice more in his 13 seasons with the Canadiens.
        A member of the club's famed Punch line, along with Maurice (the Rocket) Richard and Elmer Lach, Blake was the league's most valuable player and leading scorer in the 1938-39 season, and he scored the cup-winning goal against the Boston Bruins in 1946.
        When he retired after the 1947-48 season, Blake, who once held the record for most assists in a game, 5, had scored 235 goals with 292 assists in 578 games.
        But for all his acclaim as a player, no one was quite prepared for what happened when Blake, his signature fedora on his head, took his place behind the Canadien bench for the first time in 1955 and found his true calling.
        The club, which had lost the championship series to the Detroit Red Wings the two preceding seasons, simply exploded, winning a record 45 games in the 70-game regular season, then capturing the 1956 Stanley Cup, the first of five consecutive championships that established a record that still stands.
        By the time Blake's coaching career ended in 1968, following a record eighth championship, his fedora was as familiar to Canadians as the maple leaf.
        "He was severe," Rocket Richard's younger brother, Henri (the Pocket Rocket) Richard, said yesterday, recalling that he had been a 19-year-old rookie when he broke in with the Canadiens in Blake's first year as coach. "He was like a dad to me, a very severe dad, but a dad."
        Blake, who was known both for his humor and his explosive temper as well as his overpowering will to win, was also admired as a master hockey strategist and revered as a master motivator.
        "He knew each individual," is the way a former goaltender, Gump Worsley, once put it, praising Blake for never criticizing a player in front of his teammates.
        In his 14 seasons as a coach, Blake's teams won 500 games, with 255 losses and 159 ties for a remarkable .634 winning percentage.
        After his coaching days, Blake stayed with the Canadiens in a front- office position, but even after he ended his official connection, he remained a presence, partly because the beer hall he operated across the street from the Forum was known as hockey's unofficial headquarters, and partly because he rarely missed a game.
        Even his hat remained a crucial part of team rituals. Snatching the fedora off the beloved former coach's head was as much a part of celebrating a Montreal championship as drinking champagne from the Stanley Cup.
        He continued to be a powerful motivating symbol during his final illness.
        During the five years he suffered from severe Alzheimer's, descriptions of his illness helped bring the impact of the disease to the attention of the Canadian public and fund-raising efforts in his name have raised thousands of dollars.
      