
        Robert Shelton, a former music critic for The New York Times who was a catalyst and chronicler of the 1960's folk boom, died on Monday at a hospital in Brighton, England. He was 69 and lived in Brighton.
        The cause was a stroke following complications from diabetes, said Liz Thomson, a friend.
        In the early 1960's, Mr. Shelton spent many evenings at Gerde's Folk City, a club in Greenwich Village where many young folk and country musicians made their debuts. Interviewed in "Hoot: a 25-year History of the Greenwich Village Music Scene," Mr. Shelton recalled, "What I found at Folk City was the kind of self-expression of a quality music that was home-crafted, homemade, self-developed, free, radical."
        On Sept. 29, 1961, Mr. Shelton reviewed a Folk City performance by Bob Dylan. "His clothes may need a bit of tailoring," he wrote in the Times, "but when he works his guitar, harmonica or piano, and composes new songs faster than he can  remember them, there is no doubt that he is bursting at the seams with talent."  The review catapulted Mr. Dylan into prominence.
        Mr. Shelton wrote liner notes for Mr. Dylan's debut album under a pseudonym.  He also championed and assisted many other musicians, including Eric Andersen, Janis Ian, Judy Collins, Jose Feliciano, Peter, Paul and Mary, Janis Joplin and  the Mothers of Invention.
        In 1968, Mr. Shelton left The Times to write a biography of Mr. Dylan and moved to London. While in England he also wrote music criticism, and in 1982 became the arts editor of The Brighton Evening Argus. "No Direction Home: The Life and Music of Bob Dylan" was published in 1986 by Beech Tree/William Morrow.
        Mr. Shelton was born in Chicago. After serving in the Army, he studied journalism at Northwestern University. In the mid-1950's he began working at The Times as a copy editor and also as a part-time reviewer, writing extensively about folk music, blues, jazz, gospel and country music.
        During the McCarthy era, he was subpoenaed by a Senate subcommittee that had  intended to subpoena a man named Willard Shelton, a nationally known columnist;  even though he was summoned in error, he refused to answer any questions and was convicted of contempt of Congress. After a long legal battle, his conviction was reversed on technical grounds.
        Mr. Shelton's other books include a work about Woody Guthrie, "Born to Win" (1965); "The Face of Folk Music" (1968), with the photographer David Gahr; "The  Country Music Story" (1966), written with Burt Goldblatt, and "The Electric Muse: The Story of Folk Into Rock" (1975), with Dave Laing, Karl Dallas and Robin Deneslow.
        In the early 1990's, Mr. Shelton became a film critic for The Birmingham Post, a position he held until his death. He wrote recently about travel for The Independent in London and worked for World Newslink, a wire service.
        He is survived by two sisters, Ruth S. Kadish of San Francisco and Leona R. Shapiro of Berkeley, Calif.
      