
        Edward Dudley Hume Johnson, a longtime professor at Princeton University who  was an authority on aspects of British arts and letters, died on Dec. 9 at the Princeton Medical Center in New Jersey. He was 84 and lived in Princeton.
        The university announced his death last week. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter, Victoria Pickering.
        Professor Johnson, who wrote under the name E. D. H. Johnson, retired from Princeton in 1978 as the Holmes Professor of Belles-Lettres in the English department, of which he was chairman from 1968 to 1974. He taught at Princeton for 34 years.
        His earlier writings included books on poetry and on the writing of Charles Dickens. Later, after studying British painting as a Guggenheim fellow and as a  senior fellow in the Council of Humanities, he wrote the book "Paintings of the  British Social Scene: From Hogarth to Sickert" (1986), which Judith Wilson, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called "a work of unusual scope, confidence and vigor."
        "The author writes with a brisk but supple erudition," she added, and "furnishes a fresh set of historical lenses that help 20th-century readers comprehend the enormous popularity of images of daily life -- urban or rural, domestic or public -- known as genre, or 'subject painting,' in 18th- and 19th-century Britain."
        The British magazine Country Life, in its review, praised the "lucid and authoritative text" and said Professor Johnson -- who also collected English watercolors -- "ranges over two centuries to prove that one central tradition within British art has been the desire to record the ever-changing spectacle of  contemporary life."
        Besides numerous scholarly articles, his other writings include the books "The Alien Vision of Victorian Poetry" (1952) -- a work of literary criticism -- and "Charles Dickens: An Introduction to the Reading of His Novels" (1969).
        Professor Johnson also compiled an anthology of writings by British naturalists, "The Poetry of the Earth" (1965), and a critical anthology of prose and poetry, "The World of the Victorians" (1964).
        He taught at Princeton from 1939 to 1941, was a Navy officer during World War II and returned to the Princeton faculty in 1946.
        He was born in Alton, Ohio, and grew up in Columbus. He received one bachelor's degree magna cum laude in 1934 from Princeton, and another bachelor's degree in 1936 at Oxford, where he was a Rhodes Scholar, and a doctorate from Yale in 1939.
        In addition to his daughter, of Storrs, Conn., he is survived by his wife of  48 years, the former Mary Laura Vance; two sons, Alexander, of Manhattan, and Geoffrey, of Bronxville, N.Y.; four grandchildren, and a sister, Sarah Owren of  Jamesburg, N.J.
      