
        James W. Altgens, a longtime Associated Press staff member known for his photograph of the anguished Jacqueline Kennedy, seconds after her husband's assassination, clambering onto the back of their car while a Secret Service agent moved to her aid, was found dead on Tuesday in his home in Dallas. He was  76.
        Mr. Altgens, who was retired, and his wife, Clara, 73, were both found dead at the home, The Associated Press reported. The Dallas Morning News reported on  Friday that relatives said the couple had been suffering from the flu but that the police were looking into the possibility that they had died of carbon monoxide poisoning from a defective furnace.
        Mr. Altgens, known as Ike, was photographing President Kennedy's motorcade at Dealey Plaza, in downtown Dallas, on Nov. 22, 1963. After taking photographs  of the immediate aftermath of the assassination, he telephoned to his news agency and was the first to tell it that the President had been hit by gunfire and gravely wounded. The agency transmitted a news bulletin about the shooting that reported that Mr. Altgens had said he thought the noise was fireworks until he spied blood on the President.
        In a dispatch that Mr. Altgens wrote for the agency later that day, he said:  "There was a burst of noise, the second one I heard, and pieces of flesh appeared to fly from President Kennedy's car. Blood covered the whole left side  of his head. Mrs. Kennedy saw what had happened to her husband. She grabbed him, exclaiming, 'Oh, no!' "
        The Associated Press, in its book on the assassination, "The Torch is Passed  . . ." which was published soon afterward, republished Mr. Altgens's photograph  of the First Lady and the agent with a caption saying it "shows Secret Service Agent Clint Hill leaping toward Mrs. Kennedy as she desperately moves for help in the first moment of horror."
        Mr. Altgens was born and reared in Dallas and went to work for the Associated Press in 1938, when he was 19. He retired in 1988.
        Mrs. Altgens, the former Clara B. Halliburton, is survived by two sisters, Myrtis Grant and Gladys Gleaves, both of Dallas.
      