
        Ron Luciano, the former major league umpire who was found dead in the garage of his home in Endicott, N.Y., Wednesday afternoon, took his own life by means of carbon monoxide poisoning, the Broome County Coroner ruled after an autopsy yesterday.
        Mr. Luciano, known for his flamboyant style and later the author of a series of colorful reminiscences on the baseball world, was 57.
        The police said Mr. Luciano, who was found in his car with the motor running, had attached a plastic pipe to the exhaust and stretched it through a car window.
        "The garage was set up," a sister, Dolores Jester, said yesterday. "It was carefully orchestrated." She said her brother had left a note providing funeral instructions but no indication of what had prompted him to end his life. She said family members and friends had no idea, either, adding that her brother had been in good health and that the autopsy had found no disease.
        She said that Mr. Luciano lived with another sister, Barbara Walton, who was visiting her children in Denver.
        In his 11-year career as an American League umpire, he had a theatrical flair in making calls and did not shrink from confrontations.
        Recalling the reaction of a fellow umpire, he once remembered how "One game, Bill Haller came into the locker room afterward and said: 'I just can't believe it. You set a new record out there today. You called that runner out at second base 16 times without stopping.' "
        His chest-to-chest encounters with Manager Earl Weaver of the Baltimore Orioles were memorable, and he once ejected Weaver from both games of a 1975 doubleheader.
        After retiring in 1980, Mr. Luciano worked as a sports commentator for NBC. In the books "Strike Two," "The Umpire Strikes Back," "The Fall of the Roman Umpire" and "Remembrance of Swings Past," he spun scores of baseball stories and became a personality off the field.
        At 6 feet 4 inches and 300 pounds, Mr. Luciano, a football lineman at Syracuse from 1956 to 1958, cut an imposing figure. He worked the 1974 World Series and the American League playoffs in 1971, 1975 and 1978.
        After leaving baseball, he reflected on the changes in the game during his career.
        "When I started, it was played by nine tough competitors on grass, in graceful ball parks," he observed. "But while I was trying to answer the daily Quiz-O-Gram on the exploding scoreboard, a revolution was taking place around me. By the time I was finished, there were 10 men on each side, the game was played indoors, on plastic, and I had to spend half my time watching out for a man dressed in a chicken suit who kept trying to kiss me."
        In addition to his sisters, Mr. Luciano is survived by his mother, Josephine.
      