
        Lord Cowdray, who controlled one of Britain's largest fortunes as chairman of the S. Pearson & Son conglomerate, died Thursday at King Edward VI Hospital in Midhurst, Sussex. He was 84.
        He lived on a 17,000-acre estate at Midhurst and a 60,000-acre tract in the Scottish region of Grampian, formerly known as Aberdeenshire.
        The cause was bronchial pneumonia, a hospital spokesman said.
        The Sunday Times of London ranked him, the 3d Viscount Cowdray, 15th among Britain's 500 richest people last year, with a personal fortune estimated at over $:700 million, or about $1.09 billion.
        He was chairman of the Pearson Group from 1954 to 1977, a period of remarkable growth for a business begun modestly by his grandfather. The latter, Weetman Pearson, had a hand in construction projects like Dover Harbor and built the Mexican Eagle Oil Company, which he sold at a hefty profit to Royal Dutch Shell after World War I.
        Under the 3d Viscount, the Pearson empire had stakes in such widely diverse enterprises as Penguin Books, Viking Press, The Financial Times, The Economist, Madame Tussaud's, Chateau Latour vineyards and Lazard Freres, the merchant bankers. Its total holdings were estimated at $5 billion in 1994. Its current chairman is Lord Blakenham, a nephew.
        Viscount Cowdray, an acutely shy man, was reticent about the family's private holdings. The public got an idea of their immense size in 1969 when Pearson offered investors a minority interest in the holding company.
        The issue was oversubscribed five times and raised $150 million. The reasons for the offering were said to be problems with taxes and estate duties.
        Weetman John Churchill Pearson, who was distantly related to Sir Winston Churchill through his mother, was born in London. He was educated at Eton and Christ Church, Oxford, and became a polo enthusiast and the nonplaying captain of Britain's national team in the 1930's.
        During World War II, he was a captain in the Sussex Yeomanry and lost his left arm in the British retreat from Dunkirk in 1940. He later served as parliamentary aide to the Under Secretary of State for Air, Lord Sherwood, and was an officer in the Home Guard. After the war he was credited with reviving polo, and Cowdray Park Polo Club, on his estate in Sussex, became the sport's mecca in Britain.
        It attracted the rich and royalty, including Prince Charles, who played there often. The club sponsored an annual Cowdray Park Gold Cup, for which invited teams competed.
        Lord Cowdray is survived by his wife of 41 years, Lady Cowdray, the former Elizabeth Georgiana Mather; two sons and four daughters. His first marriage, to Lady Anne Pamela Bridgeman, ended in divorce.
      