
        Percy Knauth, an author and former news correspondent, died on Sunday at Mystic Manor Convalescent Center in Mystic, Conn. A resident of Stonington, Conn., he was 80.
        He died after a lengthy illness, his family said.
        Mr. Knauth -- the "k" is pronounced -- wrote "A Season in Hell" (Harper & Row, 1975), a widely praised chronicle of the seizure of panicky depression and paralyzing fear he underwent in midlife. In The New York Times Book Review, Webster Schott wrote that the author had distilled his crisis and the fight to recovery into "a beautiful book."
        Percical Roediger Knauth was born in Flushing, Queens, but graduated from a German Gymnasium in Leipzig, where his parents lived at the time. He attended Bowdoin College but returned to Germany in the late 1930's.
        After working for The Chicago Tribune in Berlin, he became a correspondent for The New York Times in March 1939 and filed his reports from wartime Berlin until April 1941, when he became a special writer in the Times's Sunday Department in New York. He joined Time magazine as a war correspondent in 1942 and spent the next 28 years working for Time-Life publications in Paris, Berlin and New York. He left as European editor in 1970 to devote his time to freelance writing and editing.
        Mr. Knauth's first book, "Germany in Defeat" (Knopf, 1946), related his experiences traveling in that ruined country after the war as Paris bureau chief for Time.
        In a Sunday review for The Times, Theodore Draper called it rich and vivid, written smoothly with "humane and critical intelligence."
        Mr. Knauth's first marriage to Gisele Gries ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 41 years, Behri Pratt Knauth; six sons, Peter G. of Jacksonville, Fla., Philip W. of Hong Kong, Alan R. of Munster, Germany, Steven A. of Ivoryton, Conn., Timothy P. of Westerly, R.I., and Geoffrey S. of Cambridge, Mass.; a daughter, Elisabeth Anne Knauth of Mystic, Conn.; a brother, Otto W. of Des Moines; two sisters, Christina Ardut of Chevy Chase, Md., and Sybilla Pfeiffer of Wilton, Mass.; and four grandchildren.
      