
        Dr. Robert S. Dietz, whose studies of the ocean floor helped set the stage for confirmation of the geological theory of continental drift, died on Friday at his home in Tempe, Ariz. He was 80.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to Arizona State University, where he was a professor of geology until he retired in 1985.
        In the 1960's Dr. Dietz, then at the Navy Electronics Laboratory in San Diego, elaborated on a revolutionary proposal of Dr. Harry H. Hess of Princeton University: that the ocean floors are splitting apart and sections are being thrust aside as new material wells up to form mid-ocean ridges.
        Dr. Dietz's term for this process, "sea-floor spreading," is now part of the language of geology.
        His contributions to the study of the ocean floor date back many years. In 1952 he arranged for the Navy to buy "Aqua-lungs" developed in France by Jacques Cousteau, who later became famous for his diving exploits. The device was a forerunner of scuba diving.
        In the late 1950's, while with the Office of Naval Research in London, Dr. Dietz collaborated with the Swiss engineer Jacques Piccard in the construction of the bathyscaph Trieste. On Jan. 23, 1960, with Mr. Piccard and Lieut. Don Walsh of the United States Navy, it descended seven miles to the bottom of the Challenger Deep in the western Pacific, the world's deepest trench. The book "Seven Miles Down" by Mr. Piccard and Dr. Dietz, told of this adventure.
        Geologic mapping of the sea floor produced a number of discoveries that were puzzling to Dr. Dietz and others. Notable among these was the way in which stripes of sea floor are alternately magnetized. If the sea floor were spreading, he suggested, the stripes might be produced by the resulting stresses.
        It was then realized that they were formed on either side of each ridge as the magnetic field of the earth periodically reversed itself and became imprinted on the spreading ocean floor. It was strong support for the sea-floor-spreading theory.
        With his colleague John C. Holden, Dr. Dietz drew a series of maps showing how the continents fitted together 225 million years ago, then drifted apart. In 1972 he published a series of diagrams showing how the collision of Euro-Africa with North America produced the Appalachians over tens of millions of years.
        In Asia, looking north at the Himalayas from the Indian city of Darjeeling, he said, one could see how the Indian continental plate "has underridden the Asian plate, producing a double continent" 44 miles thick and the highest mountains on Earth.
        Dr. Dietz also became prominent for his study of giant meteorite craters, both on Earth and the Moon. He argued that the Sudbury Basin in Ontario, 37 miles long and 17 miles wide and one of the world's chief sources of nickel, was the relic of an ancient impact, much like those that are believed to have formed the lava seas on the Moon.
        Dr. Dietz was associated with Project Mohole, which with a drill rig mounted on a barge in water thousands of feet deep, tried to penetrate through sea-floor mud into the underlying rock. The effort failed but gave birth to the Deep Sea Drilling Project and its successor, the Ocean Drilling Project, in which many nations have joined in drilling into all the world's oceans.
        Robert Sinclair Dietz was born in Westfield, N.J. After graduating from the University of Illinois in 1937, he received master's and doctorate degrees in geology there, then worked at the Illinois State Geological Survey. From 1937 to 1939 he was at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego.
        During World War II he was a pilot with the Army Air Corps, rising to lieutenant colonel, then served as an oceanographer with Operation Highjump, the multiship Navy expedition to Antarctica of which Adm. Richard E. Byrd was titular leader.
        Dr. Dietz was at the Navy Electronics Laboratory in San Diego from 1946 to 1954 and again from 1959 to 1963. He also served in the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey and the Department of Commerce's Environment Science Services Administration. From 1952 to 1953 he was a Fulbright scholar at the University of Tokyo and in 1978 an Alexander von Humboldt scholar in West Germany. He became professor of geology at Arizona State in 1977.
        His awards included the Bucher Medal of the American Geophysical Union and the Gold Medal of the Department of Commerce.
        Surviving are two sons, Dr. Rex, of Billings, Mont., and Drew, of Roslyn, Pa.; a brother, Lewis, of Rockport, Me.; six stepchildren and grandchildren and his former wife, Nanon Grinstead Dietz of San Diego.
      