
        Dr. Reynold Edward Burch, a physician to two generations of Newark residents whose babies he delivered and whose adolescents he sought to guide, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Silver Spring, Md., where he was living in retirement. A former resident of Newark and Montclair, N.J., he was 80.
        The cause was heart failure, according to the family.
        Dr. Burch was a gynecologist and obstetrician in Newark from 1956 to 1981. He was affiliated with the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, formerly directing the Maternal and Infant Care Project in the department of gynecology and obstetrics.
        He is remembered by many Newark residents for having started an educational and cultural program for minority youths who might not otherwise have seen a museum, a theater or a legislative session. He and his wife, Dr. Mary Beasley Burch, a teacher, founded the program, Leaguers Inc., in 1947 and organized the events.
        In weekly sessions, at first conducted in the couple's home, they shaped the youths into a formal group and developed their sense of responsibility. They also started annual fund-raisers that helped young people to go to college and medical school.
        Among their alumni, Leaguers counts Hazel R. O'Leary, the Secretary of Energy; Representative Donald M. Payne, Democrat of Newark, and Dionne Warwick, the entertainer.
        Speaking as an original member and former president of the Leaguers, Mr. Payne praised Dr. Burch as a "great philanthropist" who brought hope to young people.
        "Years ago, in an era when professional opportunities for African-Americans were severely limited," he said, "Dr. Burch stood out as a solid role model for youngsters who dreamed of a better future."
        Dr. Burch was born in Augusta, Me., and graduated from Bates College. He worked as a high-school science and chemistry teacher, then graduated from Howard University Medical School in 1942. He served as a captain in the Army Air Force in World War II before completing his training in his specialty.
        He is survived by his wife and several cousins.
      