
        Albert William Tucker, a leading mathematician whose ideas and teaching influenced economics and business in the postwar era, died on Wednesday. He was 89.
        Professor Tucker was chairman of the mathematics department at Princeton University in the 1950's and 1960's, but effectively presided over it during World War II. He died of pneumonia at the Presbyterian Home of Meadow Lakes, a nursing home in Hightstown, N.J., after a long illness, according to a spokeswoman for Princeton University.
        An admired teacher, Professor Tucker had a somewhat atypical career trajectory that stretched from Princeton's heyday of John von Neumann and Albert Einstein through the Cold War years of military research to the anti-war demonstrations on campus of the early 1970's.
        Dr. Tucker's best-known work, in which he created the mathematical foundations of linear programming, was a product of a second career in mathematics that did not begin until he was 45 and swamped with wartime work, administrative duties and three boisterous children.
        Linear programming, or operations research, grew out of the logistical problems of the Army and Navy during World War II. It is a handy mathematical tool for maximizing the use of some scarce resource. It is now used by the AT&T Corporation to design communications networks, by oil companies to run refineries and by the Navy to route its supply ships.
        As a skilled communicator, he solved the problem of explaining game theory to psychology majors at Stanford in 1950 by dreaming up one of the most famous examples in all mathematics: the so-called Prisoners' Dilemma.
        It is a story of two criminals, held separately and each given the same choices: If one implicates his partner and the other does not, the betrayer goes free and the silent one gets three years; if each implicates the other, each gets two years, and if both are silent, they each serve only a single year. To act in the best interest of both and be silent is to run the risk of betrayal, while acting selfishly insures an unhappy fate but avoids the worst possible outcome.
        Dr. Tucker's tale spurred a vast literature in philosophy, biology, sociology, government and economics.
        Mostly, though Dr. Tucker was the intellectual soul of Princeton's mathematics department. Martin Shubik, a professor of economics at Yale University, recalled in a recent essay that the math department under Dr. Tucker was "electric with ideas and the sheer joy of the hunt."
        "If a stray 10-year-old with bare feet, no tie, torn blue jeans and an interesting theorem walked into Fine Hall at teatime, someone would have listened," Dr. Shubik wrote.
        Professor Tucker was the mentor of a remarkable generation of mathematicians, including Ralph Gomory, the former research chief at I.B.M.; Marvin Minsky, head of the artifical intelligence program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Jack Milnor, at the State University at Stony Brook, L.I., a winner of the Fields Medal, the mathematics equivalent of the Nobel Prize. He also trained the first generation of game theorists, including John Forbes Nash Jr., who won a Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science last year.
        Students flocked to Dr. Tucker because of his willingness to back the more independent-minded ones. Dr. von Neumann for example, disapproved of Dr. Nash's approach to game theory, but Professor Tucker, unfazed by Professor Von Neumann's glamour and prestige, encouraged Dr. Nash to pursue his own ideas. "He was extremely flexible as a thesis adviser and as an adviser in general," Dr. Nash said yesterday.
        Dr. Tucker, a son of a high school math teacher turned minister, came from a poor family in Ontario, Canada. No prodigy, Professor Tucker had to repeat his senior year of high school to retake the qualifying examination for a provincial scholarship he needed to attend college.  After getting a B.A. in 1928 and M.A. in 1929 from the University of Toronto, he went to Princeton as a doctoral student.
        As a first-year graduate student there, he taught calculus for a senior faculty member and protested that the professor was going too fast for his students until, finally, the professor tried to have him removed from the math department. After the dean of the faculty heard the particulars, however, Dr. Tucker was promoted.
        After 1945, Professor Tucker never submitted a paper of his own for publication in a journal. He wrote conference papers with students, his son, Alan, said, but "he wanted to leave space in the journals for the next generation."
        For example, the well-known Kuhn-Tucker theorem, a basic result in linear programming, never appeared in a journal but rather in a volume of conference proceedings.
        "He just was a very generous man with his time and examples and teaching excercises," said Harold W. Kuhn, a Princeton mathematician. "They've appeared in a million books he didn't write himself."
        After his retirement in 1974, Professor Tucker tried to recapture some of the magic of Princeton's mathematics department in the 1940's. He organized a novel oral history project involving hundreds of hours of taped interviews with former faculty members and students. He also procrastinated, his former colleagues recall fondly. His last book took 18 years.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary, of Princeton; three children, Alan, of Stony Brook, Thomas, of Hamilton, N.Y., both mathematicians, and Barbara Cervone of Barrington, R.I., and six grandchildren.
      