
        Edward Aborn, a leader in the American coffee industry who helped develop instant coffee, died on Jan. 15 at South Miami Hospital. A former resident of New Jersey, he was 84 and lived in Hot Springs, Va., and Key Largo, Fla.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Mr. Aborn was among the most active officers of the National Coffee Association. He was on its board for 30 years, beginning in 1945, and was its president from 1951 to 1953. He was also on as many as 20 committees and headed several of them.
        He started in the coffee business as a teen-ager at the New York roasting firm of Arnold & Aborn, of which his father, Edward Sr., was a principal. His father died when Edward was 19, and the son took over the company.
        The firm was sold to the Martinson Coffee Company in the early 1950's. Mr. Aborn went on to head a consortium of 10 regional coffee roasters that in 1952 formed Tenco Inc., a cooperative enterprise. Tenco conducted research on what the industry calls soluble coffees and manufactured them to supply the member firms.
        Tenco, then a major domestic source of instants, was sold to Minute Maid in 1959, and Mr. Aborn, its president, became a director of Minute Maid and president of its Tenco division. When Minute Maid itself merged with the Coca-Cola Company, he was elected a vice president of the parent company in Atlanta. He retired in 1975.
        He was a past chairman of the trade association's Brewing Committee, which conducted much of the early research on coffee brewing. Its work laid the foundation for the Coffee Brewing Institute, established by the Pan-American Coffee Bureau and the National Coffee Association.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Aborn traveled extensively in coffee-producing countries.
        His philanthropic work benefited the Lahey Clinic in Burlington, Mass., of which he was a trustee; and Union County College in Cranford, N.J. He was the founding chairman of the Union College Foundation, and a contributor to Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., and the Association for Retarded Citizens.
        Mr. Aborn's survivors include his wife, Joan Ann Chilton Aborn; a son, Edward Jr. of Tampa, Fla.; two daughters, Susan A. Cunningham of Martha's Vineyard, Mass., and Bonnie Jean Hampton of Atlanta; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      