
        G. Robert Holmen, the former chairman of the United States division of Backer Spielvogel Bates, the advertising agency, died on Monday while vacationing in the United States Virgin Islands. Mr. Holmen had lived in Vero Beach, Fla., since 1993. He was 61.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said Robert C. Holmen, his son.
        Mr. Holmen was one of six founding partners of Backer & Spielvogel when it was formed in 1979, and served as its executive vice president and chief operating officer.
        In 1988, when the agency merged with Ted Bates Worldwide, a subsidiary of Saatchi & Saatchi, Mr. Holmen became chairman of the United States division of Backer Spielvogel Bates Inc. He retired in 1989.
        Mr. Holmen's specialty was planning the marketing campaigns for consumer products, bringing all the services together, including research, advertising and sales promotion.
        Backer & Spielvogel's accounts included Miller Lite beer and the "Soup Is Good Food" campaign for the Campbell Soup Company. Other clients were Hyundai, Magnavox, British Airways, Prudential Insurance and Mars Inc., the candy company. By 1984 Backer & Spielvogel had grown to $550 million in annual billings.
        Mr. Holmen was born in the Bronx and lived most of his life in Chappaqua, N.Y., before he and his wife, Barbara, moved to Florida. His father, George E. Holmen, was chairman of the Electrolux Corporation, and the young Mr. Holmen sold vacuum cleaners during school breaks before graduating from Holy Cross College in 1955. He received an M.B.A. from Dartmouth College in 1960.
        Mr. Holmen started his advertising career as an assistant account executive at Benton & Bowles. He also worked as a brand manager at General Foods and was an account manager at the William Esty Company for 10 years. In 1975, Mr. Holmen joined McCann-Erickson, the advertising agency.
        In 1979 Mr. Holmen was appointed general manager for the New York office, which was then responsible for roughly 40 percent of McCann's domestic billings.
        About six months later, Mr. Holmen and three colleagues at McCann left the agency and joined Mr. Backer and Mr. Spielvogel as partners in Backer & Spielvogel.
        Besides his son Robert of New York City, Mr. Holmen is survived by his wife, Barbara, of Vero Beach; two daughters, Britt A. Holmen of Davis, Calif., and Brigitte A. Holmen of Greenwich, Conn.; another son, Mark E. Holmen of Old Greenwich, Conn., and a brother, Philip C. Holmen, of Dolyestown, Pa.
      