
        Maj. Gen. John W. Kaine, who rose from private to become commander of New York's 77th Infantry Division of the Army Reserve, died on Wednesday at Winthrop University Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Williston Park, L.I.
        He had a lengthy illness, complicated by surgery, according to the 77th United States Army Reserve Command at Fort Totten, Queens, his final command.
        General Kaine spent most of his 37 years of military service with the 77th, known as the Statue of Liberty Division. Much of the time this meant weekend training or maneuvers in upstate New York, but in World War II, he went on active duty with the 45th Infantry Division.
        He commanded a battalion in the drive across Europe through the Siegfried Line into Germany. He was wounded and returned to the 77th with a Bronze Star with Oak Leaf Cluster and V Pendant, the Combat Infantryman's Badge, Legion of Merit and various campaign ribbons, including the ETO Ribbon with three Battle Stars. In 1962 the French Government made him a Chevalier of the Legion of Honor.
        He served a brief tour of duty in Vietnam visiting mobilized Army Reserve units. A graduate of several service schools, including the Command and General Staff College, he was chosen to serve as chairman of the Army Department's Committee on Army Reserve Policy, and chairman of the department's Joint Committee of the Army National Guard and Army Reserve Policy Committee. In 1965 he was named Deputy Chief, Army Reserve, Department of the Army.
        Born in New York City, he joined the 77th as a private in 1935. He was commissioned a second lieutenant in 1937 and rose steadily in rank to major general and commanding officer in 1958.
        The division was deactivated in 1965. But two years later he took over as the first commander of its successor, 77th Arcom, which now comprises 14,000 reservists in New York and parts of New Jersey. He retired at the end of 1972.
        Out of uniform, he was a sales executive in the textile business in New York until his retirement in 1988.
        General Kaine is survived by his wife, Helen; a son, Jay W.; a daughter, Carol K. Lucas, and eight grandchildren.
      