
        Richard A. Moore, a lawyer and communications executive who served as special counsel to President Richard M. Nixon and was Ambassador to Ireland, died Friday at his home in Washington. He was 81 years old.
        The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his daughter, Kate L. Moore.
        Mr. Moore began his career as a lawyer in the television industry in the 1940's, working first for the fledgling American Broadcasting Company and then for broadcasting and cable television companies in California. He joined the Nixon Administration in 1970 as special assistant to Attorney General John N. Mitchell, a close friend, and became a special counsel to the President in 1971.
        Because of his background in television, Mr. Moore worked closely in the White House with the aides responsible for President Nixon's image, including Ronald L. Ziegler, the press secretary. His most prominent role came in July 1973 as a witness before the Senate committee investigating the Watergate scandal.
        The President's defenders counted heavily on Mr. Moore to refute the testimony of John W. Dean 3d, the discharged White House counsel who accused Mr. Nixon of complicity in covering up the Watergate scandal and said the President had known of the cover-up as early as September 1972.
        On July 12, 1973 Mr. Moore told the committee: "Nothing said in my meetings with Mr. Dean or my meetings with the President suggests in any way that before March 21 the President had known, or that Mr. Dean believed he had known, of any involvement of White House personnel in the bugging or the cover-up."
        After leaving his White House position, Mr. Moore became a founder and associate producer of "The McLaughlin Group" television program, for which he won an Emmy Award in 1984.
        In September 1989, Mr. Moore was named Ambassador to Ireland by President George Bush and he served in Dublin until June 1992.
        Mr. Moore graduated from Yale University in 1936 and Yale Law School in 1939. He served in the Army during World War II and reached the rank of captain. His first wife, Jane G. Swift, died in 1985.
        In addition to his daughter Kate, who lives in Washington, Mr. Moore is survived by his second wife, Esther Horstkotte Jantzen; fours sons, Richard Jr., of Mendham, N.J.; Mattew S., of Jasper, Ga.; Joseph F., of Glendale, Calif., and Samuel S. of New Castle, Calif. and seven grandchildren.
      