
        Stephen E. Banner, a senior executive of the Seagram Company, died yesterday at New York University Hospital. He was 56.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Ellen.
        Mr. Banner, who lived in Larchmont, N.Y., was a lawyer with the firm of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett from 1968 until 1991, when he joined Seagram as senior executive vice president and strategic adviser to the company's top executives. He was also a member of the company's board.
        While at Seagram, he helped plan and carry out the complex transaction this year in which E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company repurchased 25 percent of its stock from Seagram for $8.8 billion and Seagram bought 80 percent of MCA Inc. from the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company for $5.7 billion.
        While still in private practice, Mr. Banner had advised Matsushita, the Japanese consumer electronics company, in its acquisition of control of MCA, an entertainment conglomerate whose holdings include Universal Pictures.
        Mr. Banner was born in New York City. He graduated from Yale and from Harvard Law School, where he was an editor of the Law Review.
        On leaving law school, he was a clerk for Judge Irving R. Kaufman of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, then practiced law in New York.
        He joined Simpson Thacher in 1968 and became a partner in 1971. At the firm, he practiced corporate and securities law, developing a specialty in mergers and acquisitions. Seagram and the Bronfman family, which controls it, were clients for more than two decades as the company shifted its emphasis away from distilled spirits, wine and beverages to entertainment with the acquisition of MCA and a 15 percent holding in Time Warner Inc.
        Other major clients included Manufacturers Hanover Bank, NCR Corporation and Paramount Communications. He had investment banking relationships with the firms of Lehman Brothers, Goldman Sachs and Lazard Freres.
        For a long time, Seagram had wanted Mr. Banner to leave the law firm and join the company full time. As early as 1978, Edgar M. Bronfman, the chairman of the company, tried to hire Mr. Banner as general counsel, but he declined. When Edgar Bronfman Jr., the president and chief executive, succeeded, he put Mr. Banner in charge of all corporate financial, legal and planning operations.
        Besides his wife of 33 years, Mr. Banner is survived by a son, Stuart, of St. Louis; three daughters, Wendy Banner Gordon of New York City; Deborah, a graduate student at the University of California at Los Angeles, and Emily, a student at Williams College, and a grandchild.
      