
        Jeffrey P. Beck, a flamboyant merger-and-acquisition specialist on Wall Street who rose to prominence in the 1980's, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his wife, Anna, said.
        Mr. Beck played a major role in completing two of the nation's largest leveraged buyouts: the acquisitions of the Beatrice Companies and RJR Nabisco Inc. by Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company. In a leveraged buyout, a company is bought through the use of borrowed money, with that company's own assets used as security for the loan.
        Mr. Beck achieved his greatest professional fame at Drexel Burham Lambert, a securities firm that filed for bankruptcy in early 1990 and is now defunct. Shortly before the bankruptcy, Mr. Beck received a bonus of $2.5 million.
        Mr. Beck was born in Pittsburgh and raised in Florida. He graduated from Florida State University and earned an M.B.A. from the Columbia Business School in 1971.
        During his career as an investment banker, he was employed as a merger-and-acquisition executive for three other securities firms besides Drexel -- Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette, Lehman Brothers and Oppenheimer & Company. At all of these firms, he delighted in being outspoken and rambunctious in the midst of the traditionalists. When he succeeded in a lucrative deal, he would howl through the corridors like a mad dog, earning him the nickname "Mad Dog."
        In keeping with that name, Mr. Beck was said to have eaten a box of dog biscuits to impress F. Ross Johnson, then chief executive of RJR Nabisco. Another often-repeated story about him is that he threatened to jump from an office window when he was tricked into believing that he would not receive a fee for work he had done.
        In 1987, Mr. Beck served as a technical adviser and acted a cameo role in Oliver Stone's film, "Wall Street." He also held discussions with film makers during the same year about making a movie based on his life, but the project was dropped.
        After leaving Drexel in 1990, Mr. Beck became an independent money manager, handling the funds of some families outside the United States.  At his death, he was in the process of establishing a foundation to improve relations between the United States and the countries of the former Soviet Union. His family said he had also completed an autobiographical manuscript.
        Mr. Beck was married three times previously. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Katherine of Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
      