
        H. Norton Stevens, a business executive and investor in Latin American enterprises, died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan and Waccabuc, N.Y.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, Wendy MacKenzie, a family friend, said.
        Mr. Stevens, a former chairman and chief executive of the Norlin Corporation, was stricken while attending a meeting of the directors of the Inter-American Foundation, an independent agency of the United States Government that is charged with economic development work in Latin America. He was appointed to the board in 1989 by President George Bush.
        Mr. Stevens headed Norlin, a leading manufacturer of musical instruments and electronic equipment, when the company became the target of a hostile takeover bid in 1984 by Rooney Pace Inc. After a bitter fight, Norlin was acquired by Rooney Pace, and Mr. Stevens resigned.
        A graduate of Yale and the Harvard Business School, Mr. Stevens began his business career in 1958, when he joined the Ecuadorian Corporation, an enterprise founded by his grandfather in Guayaquil, Ecuador.
        The company expanded into the United States and in 1969, acquired the Chicago Musical Instruments Company, at the time the nation's largest manufacturer of musical instruments. At that point, the company was renamed Norlin.
        Following the Rooney Pace takeover, Mr. Stevens joined Donaldson Enterprises, headed by William Donaldson, the recently retired chairman of the New York Stock Exchange.
        Mr. Stevens was a board member of the International Rescue Committee and a former trustee of Vassar College.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret Love Stevens; two daughters, Shirley Sperka, of Palm Desert, Calif., and Gwenn Langmack, of Sedona, Ariz.; four stepdaughters, Marnie Wright of San Francisco, Elizabeth Hazel of Pittsburgh, Julie Ziv of Chicago, and Amy Kiernan of Charlotte, Vt., and seven grandchildren.
        He is also survived by his mother, Hope Norton Iaccaci of Santa Barbara, Calif., two brothers, Donald E. Stevens of Hebron, N.H., and Peter N. Stevens of Carlsbad, Calif., and a sister, Thayes Lambrecht of Petaluma, Calif.
      