
        Jack Denton Scott, a versatile writer whose work ranged from cookbooks to mystery novels, died on Tuesday at his home in Corning, N.Y. He was 79.
        He suffered a long illness, said Maria Scott, his wife and frequent collaborator.
        Mr. Scott wrote his first short story at 16 and had his first article published in a national magazine three years later. He put his name to 41 books and 1,500 magazine articles, including 30 years' worth of contributions to Reader's Digest.
        He contributed to other national magazines as well and wrote books that introduced children to the animals of the wild.
        His latest effort, written with his wife, was a successful paperback, "The Bean, Pea and Lentil Cookbook" (1991). They previously collaborated on "Rice: A Cookbook" (1989) and "The Meat and Potatoes Cookbook" (1988), which raised some weight watchers' eyebrows by celebrating steak au poivre, brisket and leg of lamb.
        Mr. Scott was born in Elkins, W.Va., and studied literature at Columbia and Oxford Universities. In World War II, he was a war correspondent for the Army newspaper Yank in London, Cairo and Florence.
        He became the dogs editor for Field & Stream magazine and a syndicated columnist on adventure and the outdoor life. The columns, written for The New York Herald Tribune, let the Scotts travel widely and often, from India to the Arctic Ocean.
        For his "Passport to Adventure" (1966), with photographs by Mrs. Scott, the couple logged some 500,000 miles over five years. He wrote his first cookbook, "The Complete Book of Pasta: an Italian Cookbook" (1968), because, he said, he considered cooking an art and had made it an "ardent hobby."
        The titles of his many illustrated children's books reflected his interests as a naturalist. Among them were "Loggerhead Turtle: Survivor from the Sea" (1974), "Canada Geese" (1976), "Discovering the Mysterious Egret" (1978), "Island of Wild Horses" (1978) and "Moose" (1981).
        He is survived by his wife.
      