
        Joe Slovo, the Communist intellectual widely credited with being a mastermind of South Africa's national reconciliation, died early today, his spokesman, Stephen Laufer, announced. He was 68.
        The cause was cancer of the bone marrow.
        Mr. Slovo, an advocate in the South African Communist Party for half a century, was a folk hero to many blacks, the first white admitted into the leadership of the African National Congress and a member of the team that negotiated the end of white rule. He was Minister of Housing in the first freely elected Government of South Africa.
        With the arguable exception of F. W. de Klerk, the President who surrendered the white political monopoly, probably no white man did as much as Mr. Slovo to shape the new South Africa.
        And he immensely enjoyed the irony of it: that although fellow whites vilified him as a Stalinist and a revolutionary, his major contributions to the new order were acts of compromise and moderation.
        It was Mr. Slovo, with his militant credentials as a former commander of anti-apartheid guerrillas, who in 1990 persuaded Nelson Mandela and other resistance leaders to suspend their military assaults to create a climate for negotiations. And it was Mr. Slovo who in 1992 first broached the idea of a unity Government, including a five-year guarantee of job security for the powerful and potentially disruptive whites in the civil service and the military.
        Born in Lithuania in 1926, he moved to South Africa with his parents at the age of 9. He fought with a South African armored division against the Nazis in World War II, then used a veteran's grant to study law at the University of the Witwatersrand, where he met a fellow law student named Nelson Mandela.
        Mr. Slovo had joined the Communist Party in 1942. Mr. Mandela was something of a black nationalist and, as he explained in his autobiography, he disdained Communism as a foreign, white ideology.
        But the men forged a friendship that grew into an unshakeable political alliance. Over the years Mr. Slovo and other white Communists assumed influential places in the African National Congress. Mr. Slovo often said his party's greatest role was in steering the Congress away from black nationalism to a doctrine of nonracialism.
        "The culture of nonracialism is now deeply embedded," he said in a recent interview. "That has a great deal to do with the Communist Party."
        Although the A.N.C. probably lost some white support for its alliance with the Communists, Mr. Mandela doggedly defended the partnership, likening it to the West's alliance with Stalin against Hitler.
        Even when the Communist Party was legal, Mr. Slovo was repeatedly arrested and banned from public gatherings or political activities.
        As a lawyer he often defended political dissidents. He was part of the legal team that defended 156 anti-apartheid campaigners, including himself and Mr. Mandela, who were charged with treason in 1956. The trial lasted five years and ended without convictions.
        In 1963 he was out of the country drumming up support for the Congress's military wing when the police swooped down on the top leadership of the anti-apartheid struggle. He spent the next 27 years living in exile, working as a propagandist and strategist of the A.N.C. guerrilla army and as a conduit of aid and training from Moscow.
        Mr. Slovo was a faithful apologist for the Soviet Union, even when others in the anti-apartheid movement, including his wife, were anxious about Soviet behavior.
        In a recent interview, Mr. Slovo said he began to have deep doubts about his Communist patrons in the 1960's but suppressed them. For example, to speak out against the crushing of dissent in Czechoslovakia, he said, would have meant his ostracism from the party and probably from the A.N.C. as well, which was equally slavish in defending its Soviet sponsors.
        "The choice that you face is that you either continue to be able to make a contribution to the struggle or not," he said, "because at that stage, that kind of thing just was not tolerated."
        "I was wrong, and I'm ashamed of some of the traps I was led into," he added, citing specifically his defense of the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968.
        But he said that given the chance, he would do nothing different, because fealty to Moscow was a prerequisite for leadership in the anti-apartheid struggle.
        In 1985 Mr. Slovo became the first white member of the A.N.C. national executive committee, and the next year he was chosen general secretary of the Communist Party. He held that post until 1991, when he retired to the more symbolic post of chairman.
        Although his cancer had already been diagnosed, he was a key strategist among the Congress leaders who prodded the white Government into accepting democracy. Mr. Mandela and others said Mr. Slovo's status as a liberation hero enabled him to counsel compromises that the militants found difficult to accept.
        During his months as a Cabinet minister, Mr. Slovo was widely praised by voters and the business establishment for his plans to deliver on one of Mr. Mandela's most important campaign promises -- to build a million homes in five years.
        An agreement he signed in October with mortgage lenders promised $500 million in housing loans to residents of black townships. For the most destitute of the homeless, Mr. Slovo earmarked $3,500 in state subsidies to buy a family a plot of land with water, sewer and electricity, and a rudimentary shelter.
        Some people in his own ranks contended Mr. Slovo was promising the poor little more than improved squatter camps. He derided such critics as "populists" who would bankrupt the fledgling Government for the sake of egalitarian show.
        In 1982 his wife, Ruth First, a fellow Communist and anti-apartheid campaigner, was killed by a parcel bomb later attributed to the South African security forces.
        Mr. Slovo is survived by his second wife, Helen Dolny, and three daughters by his first marriage.
      