
        Robert Marquis, an architect widely known for his efforts to inject a social consciousness into a profession he frequently criticized as indifferent to human needs, died on Tuesday in San Francisco. He was 67.
        The cause was complications following pancreatic surgery, said his partner, Gita Dev.
        Mr. Marquis's most famous project was the 1985 transformation of a troubled low-income housing complex in San Francisco, a crime-ridden slab nicknamed the "pink palace," into usable and safe housing for the elderly. Called the Rosa Parks Apartments, the project attracted national attention as a prototype for the reconstruction of failed low-income housing projects.
        With his former partner, Claude Stoller, and the landscape architect Lawrence Halprin, he also designed the St. Francis Square housing complex of 1963 in San Francisco, a low-rise grouping of moderate-income cooperative apartments that was nationally recognized as a model for sensitive urban design.
        "We believe that architecture is a social art that serves people and their society," Mr. Marquis said in a 1992 lecture explaining his firm's approach. "I am not just referring to functional needs, but also to the users' spiritual and psychological needs, their aspirations."
        Mr. Marquis, who maintained offices in San Francisco and New York City, also designed numerous academic buildings, suburban houses and public projects, including the school of music at Stanford University and the modernization of the south terminal of the San Francisco International Airport.
        His major work in New York was the Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College. Completed in 1992, it is a large brick building with a glass-roofed, pyramidal atrium and an octagonal hall for chamber music, which Edward Rothstein of The New York Times described as "a handsome and impressive addition to the city's musical life," with sound that had "a sort of aura that can give the music both potency and charm."
        Early last year Mr. Marquis, distressed at what he believed was an increasing tendency of architects to limit themselves to being "elite object makers," formed an organization intended to re-emphasize the social role of architecture. Made up of sociologists, public officials and housing developers as well as architects, the group has produced books and papers on affordable housing.
        Robert Marquis was born in Stuttgart, Germany, in 1927. When he was 10 his family fled Nazi Germany and settled in Los Angeles. He studied architecture at the University of Southern California, and after working for several architects opened his first office in San Francisco in 1953.  An active teacher, he served as Thomas Jefferson Professor of Architecture at the University of Virginia in 1980, and in 1991 was chancellor of the College of Fellows of the American Institute of Architects.
        His present firm, Marquis Associates, was formed in 1974, and its practice will be continued by his partners, Ms. Dev and Hal Brandes.
        He is survived by his wife, Ellen; two daughters, Lisa Marquis Lee of Boulder, Colo., and Tessa, of Milford, Conn.; a son, David, of New York City, and five grandchildren.
      