
        Ben R. Rich, a Lockheed Aircraft Corporation engineer and manager who helped develop some of the most successful and advanced military aircraft ever produced in the United States, died on Thursday in Community Memorial Hospital in Ventura, Calif. He was 69 and lived in Oxnard.
        The cause was cancer of the esophagus, a Lockheed spokesman said.
        Lockheed's Advanced Development Company, which Mr. Rich joined in 1950, gave the United States its first operational jet fighter, the P-80. While he was there, the company produced the U-2 and SR-71 spy planes, the C-130 transport and the F-104 fighter.
        Mr. Rich's most significant aeronautical triumph was the design of the F-117A, the "Stealth" fighter-bomber that is virtually invisible to enemy radar and rose to fame in the Persian Gulf war. While flying 1 percent of the American-led coalition's air strikes against Iraq in 1991, the F-117A accounted for 40 percent of the targets that were damaged.
        The SR-71 Blackbird, introduced in 1964 and retired in 1990, has flown from Los Angeles to Washington in 64 minutes; in another flight in 1976, it flew 2,092 miles an hour at a height of 85,068 feet.
        In measuring Air Force combat effectiveness, many pilots say stealth, perhaps more than speed and armaments, is the sine qua non of technology.
        Joining Lockheed's advanced aircraft development project in 1950, Mr. Rich spent 40 years developing at least 20 different aircraft in a Lockheed unit widely known in military aircraft circles since the 1940's as the Skunk Works, which got its name from the secret moonshine still in the comic strip "Li'l Abner," and from the noxious odors that permeated its first location near a plastics factory in Burbank, Calif.
        "That amazing Skunk Works is unique in the world for producing secret airplanes far advanced beyond what was thought feasible and at a success rate that is simply extraordinary," said Zbigniew Brzezinski, the national security adviser under President Jimmy Carter.
        In "Skunk Works: A Personal Memoir of My Years at Lockheed," by Mr. Rich and Leo Janos, (Little, Brown & Company, 1994) Mr. Rich recounted what he and the other Lockheed engineers and designers had to overcome to produce an airplane made of titanium that would withstand temperatures reaching 1,200 degrees:
        "None of the standard wires, plugs and transducers could function at our extreme temperatures. There were no hydraulics or pumps, or oils or greases that could take our kind of heat. There were no escape parachutes, drag chutes, rocket ejection propellants and no engine fuel available for safe operation at such high temperatures."
        Stealth technology grew out of a paper by a Russian scientist that was overlooked by Soviet military planners and published in the West. But a radar specialist in Burbank recognized its potential and took it to Mr. Rich in 1975.
        "As it happened, I was damned lucky," he said in his book. "Stealth technology fell in my lap."
        Initially an engineer under Clarence (Kelly) Johnson, one of the world's most famous airplane designers, Mr. Rich became the project's vice president and general manager in 1974. Secrecy was so tight at the company that Mr. Rich used the alias Ben Dover.
        Mr. Rich retired from Lockheed on Jan. 1, 1991, as president of the Advanced Development Company. But he delivered his richest legacy three months later when Lockheed defeated the rival Northrop Corporation in a fly-off competition for a contract that could eventually be worth $100 billion to build "advanced technology fighters" incorporating his stealth technology. He edged out a longtime friend and rival in stealth technology, John F. Cashen, who designed the radar-evading technology of Northrop's B-2 bomber.
        Compared with his mentor, the crusty, profane and demanding Mr. Johnson, Mr. Rich was a methodical, low-key engineer whose managerial skills usually brought in successful new technology for less money.
        "We encouraged our people to work imaginatively, to improvise and try unconventional approaches to problem solving, and then get out of their way," he said. "By applying the most common-sense methods to develop new technologies, we saved tremendous amounts of time and money, while operating in an atmosphere of trust and cooperation with our Government customers and between our white-collar and blue-collar employees."
        Mr. Rich was born in Manila on June 18, 1925. He earned science and mechanical engineering degrees at the University of California at Berkeley and a masters in those disciplines at the University of California at Los Angeles. In 1968, he was graduated from Harvard University's advanced management program.
        In 1989, the National Aeronautic Association awarded him and his Lockheed team the Collier Award for the development and production of the F-117A. Last year Mr. Rich was given the Distinguished Service Medal, the military's highest civilian award. Mr. Rich was a fellow of the Institute for the Advancement of Engineering and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, winning its national aircraft design award in 1972. In recent years, he was an adviser to several Government intelligence panels.
        Mr. Rich is survived by his wife, Hilda; a son, Michael, of Santa Monica, Calif., and a daughter, Karen, of Santa Barbara, Calif.
      