
        Assemblyman Angelo Del Toro, an influential East Harlem Democrat who has represented his community in the State Legislature since 1975, died on Friday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan while undergoing a routine kidney dialysis procedure. He was 47.
        Mr. Del Toro died of a heart attack, said Vincent Marchiselli, a friend and former colleague in the Assembly. He said that Mr. Del Toro, who had been under treatment for kidney disease since the late 1970's and underwent dialysis every week, had survived two heart attacks earlier this month.
        A lifelong East Harlem resident, Mr. Del Toro attended public schools and put himself through City College and the New York Law School. He became a Democratic district leader in 1972, served as special assistant to City Council President Paul O'Dwyer and was elected to the Assembly at age 27.
        Over the next two decades, Mr. Del Toro, who represented the 68th Assembly District, became the first Hispanic chairman of the Black and Puerto Rican Legislative Caucus, was chairman of the Social Services Committee for 10 years and, since 1990, was chairman of the Assembly's Education Committee.
        Though not regarded as an innovative legislator, colleagues called him an energetic supporter of measures to raise grants to welfare recipients and to reform laws governing school custodians, teacher discipline and the election and conduct of New York City's 32 community school boards. He often supported the educational initiatives of New York City schools chancellors.
        Sandra Feldman, president of the United Federation of Teachers, noted that Mr. Del Toro last year sponsored a bill supported by the union to make the local school boards more accountable for the money they spend and to reform their hiring and election processes. The bill was not passed, but Mr. Del Toro intended to reintroduce it this year, she said.
        "Angelo Del Toro was somebody who really cared about public school children and the educators who teach them," Ms. Feldman said. "Having come from the public schools himself, he was a big booster of the public schools and realized how important they are to New York City."
        Mr. Del Toro was a popular figure in his district, where he and his political allies bought hundreds of gifts for children each Christmas and operated year-round programs to provide low-cost meals for elderly poor people. He also had hundreds of voters bused to Albany for field trips each summer.
        He also controlled many patronage jobs, helping constituents to get work as election inspectors, for example, and obtaining state funds to finance community organizations operated by close associates, including his brother, William, a minister who ran unsuccessfully for City Council in the 1980's. The perquisites meant much to constituents, but were often criticized by political foes.
        Mr. Del Toro ran unsuccessfully for New York City Council president in 1985, when the incumbent, Carol Bellamy, left the largely ceremonial post to seek the mayoral nomination. But he was re-elected to the Assembly 10 times, most recently last November, when he narrowly defeated Nelson Antonio Denis.
        Mr. Del Toro was a close political ally of former Assembly Speaker Mel Miller, Democrat of Brooklyn, who was instrumental in his election to the Education Committee chairmanship.
        Mr. Del Toro also had a close relationship with Mario M. Cuomo, supporting his election as Governor in 1982 and working later on his transition team. In turn, Mr. Cuomo named him to various panels, including the Governor's Advisory Committee for Hispanic Affairs.
        Mr. Del Toro's seat will remain unfilled until Gov. George E. Pataki calls a special election.
        Mr. Del Toro, who was single, is survived by three brothers, William and David, of New York City, and Emanuel, of Jacksonville, Fla. A funeral is scheduled for the Virginia House, 128 East 112th Street, at 1 P.M. tomorrow.
      