
        Peter Cook, one of the four creators of the ground-breaking satiric revue "Beyond the Fringe," died on Monday at the Royal Free Hospital in London. He was 57 and lived in London.
        The cause was a gastrointestinal hemorrhage, his family said. He had entered the hospital on Jan. 3.
        "Beyond the Fringe," a hit in London and then on Broadway (in 1962), established the reputations of Mr. Cook, Alan Bennett, Jonathan Miller and Dudley Moore as writers and performers, and opened the door to a new, irreverent style of comedy. Mr. Cook was the tall actor of the quartet, the one who looked normal but turned out to have a wild, even fiendish sense of humor.
        Mr. Cook went on to additional fame in partnership with Mr. Moore, writing and starring in "Good Evening," a long-running revue that opened on Broadway in 1973. The two were a symbiotic team, the long and short of British comedy.
        "Good Evening" reached a height of hilarity when Mr. Moore interviewed Mr. Cook, playing the owner of the Frog and Peach, a restaurant with a limited menu where a young couple without much money could get "a really big frog and a damned fine peach." In another sketch, the shoe was on the other foot, so to speak, when Mr. Moore, playing a one-legged actor auditioning for the role of Tarzan, was quietly informed by Mr. Cook as a theatrical producer that he was "deficient in the leg division, to the tune of one."
        Mr. Cook also wrote screenplays and appeared in films. He was a founder of the Establishment, a satirical nightclub in London, and was a partner in the Off Broadway version of the Establishment, which was both a club and a revue. In addition, he was a publisher and editor of the satiric magazine Private Eye.
        He was born in Torquay, England, and graduated from Cambridge, as did Mr. Miller. Mr. Moore and Mr. Bennett went to Oxford. Of the four, Mr. Cook began with the most theatrical experience, having contributed sketches to London revues. They first appeared together in 1960 at the Edinburgh Festival. "Beyond the Fringe" went on to become an international success. For it, the troupe won a special Tony Award and a special citation from the New York Drama Critics Circle.
        When the "Fringe" company disbanded, each went his own way. Mr. Bennett became a playwright, Mr. Miller a director and Mr. Moore a film actor. Mr. Cook had a more limited career, but one that was always highlighted by his reunions with Mr. Moore on stage and in films. They appeared in the British television comedy "Not Only but Also," made record albums and, in 1993, did a video as the boorish characters Derek and Clive.
        Mr. Cook and Mr. Moore both acted in the film "The Wrong Box" (1966), playing Ralph Richardson's greedy nephews. Among Mr. Cook's other movies were "Bedazzled" (1967), for which he wrote the screenplay; "The Bed-Sitting Room" (1969); "The Hound of the Baskervilles" (1977), with Mr. Cook as Sherlock Holmes and Mr. Moore as Dr. Watson; "The Secret Policeman's Other Ball" (1982), with the Monty Python troupe, and "Yellowbeard" (1983), for which he and Graham Chapman were co-writers.
        In the television series "The Two of Us," Mr. Cook played a very proper English butler, and he was the Mad Hatter in Jonathan Miller's television version of "Alice in Wonderland." Recently he made a golfing video, "Peter Cook Talks Golf Balls."
        He is survived by his third wife, Lin Chong Cook, and two daughters from his first marriage.
      