
        Robert Riger, a sports artist who became a celebrated sports photographer and an award-winning television producer, director and cinematographer, died yesterday in Huntington Beach, Calif. He was 70.
        In February, according to his son, Robert Jr., Mr. Riger was diagnosed as having adenocarcinoma, a glandular cancer.
        John Szarkowski, a former director of the photography department at the Museum of Modern Art, said, "His photographs are documents, and the best of them are also pictures that now have a life of their own, and that would have given intense pleasure to George Stubbs and Winslow Homer and Thomas Eakins."
        Mr. Riger was born in Manhattan. He attended the United States Merchant Marine Academy, served three years in the Merchant Marine during World War II and earned a bachelor's degree from Pratt Art Institute in 1947.
        In 1945, Mr. Riger made his first sports drawing, a scene from an Army-Notre Dame football game that required five lithograph pencils and 140 hours. From 1954 to 1961, Sports Illustrated published more than 1,200 of his editorial drawings and more than 200 of his promotional and advertising drawings.
        He started taking photographs in 1950 as a research tool for his drawings. From 1950 to 1994, he copyrighted more than 90,000 master photographic negatives, more than 40,000 of them involving pro football.
        At ABC, where he worked from 1963 to 1970 and from 1977 to 1980, he won nine Emmy awards. His first wife, the late Eleanor Sanger Riger, who was ABC's first female staff producer in sports, won seven.
        After learning he had cancer, Mr. Riger worked to complete his 13th book, "The Sports Photography of Robert Riger," to be published by Random House in October, and to finish plans for a five-week exhibition of his photography, which has been at the James Danziger Gallery in SoHo since April 13. The final day of the exhibition will be today.
        Mr. Riger, who was divorced twice, is survived by six children: from his first marriage, Robert Jr. of Manhattan, Christopher of Myrtle Beach, S.C., Victoria Phillips and Charlotte Hull of West Tisbury, Mass.; from his marriage to Dawn Aberg, an entertainment lawyer, he is survived by a daughter, Ariel, and a son, Max, both of Huntington Beach. He also leaves three grandchildren.
      