
        Dr. Donald A. Shaskan, a San Francisco psychiatrist noted for his work with group therapy, died on Jan. 5 at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Berkeley.
        The cause was complications from a kidney disorder, his family said.
        Dr. Shaskan helped bring group therapy to the West Coast. In 1954 he founded the western regional division of the American Group Therapy Association. The division has since added several more branches.
        He trained at New York University School of Medicine and Bellevue Hospital. During his residency at Bellevue, his mentor was Paul Schilder, the emigre Viennese psychiatrist.
        With Dr. Schilder, Dr. Shaskan led a therapy group in a hospital in 1936 when the technique was new in the United States. Five decades later he and an associate, Bill Roller, collaborated in editing a tribute, "Paul Schilder: Mind Explorer" (Human Sciences Press, 1985).
        Dr. Shaskan headed Veterans Administration mental health clinics in San Francisco and Oakland from 1949 to 1979. He was one of the first clinicians to diagnose and experiment with the treatment of borderline personality disorders in group therapy.
        He maintained a private practice and taught at the Langley Porter Neuropsychiatric Institute in San Francisco, and he was assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of California School of Medicine, where he instructed three generations of group therapists and founded the Group Therapy Symposium 40 years ago.
        Donald Shaskan was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Dartmouth College. His wife of 50 years, Frances Marsh Shaskan, died in 1986. The following year he married Adele Raeburn Shaskan, who survives.
        Also surviving are a daughter, Isabel of Sacramento, Calif.; three sons, Edward, of West Hartford, Conn., Jonathan, of San Francisco, and Geoffrey, of Greenbrae, Calif.; two sisters, Gertrude Shuldiner and Gladys Rosenthal, and a brother, George, all of New York; 10 grandchildren, and 4 great-grandchildren.
      