
        John Martin Gleason, a longtime police chief of Greenwich, Conn., and later the national director of the Boys Clubs of America, died on Tuesday at his home in Charleston, S.C. He was 87 and had moved to Charleston in 1988 after 71 years in Greenwich.
        He died after a lengthy illness, his family said.
        Former President Herbert Hoover, board chairman of Boys Clubs, invited Mr. Gleason in 1956 to become its national director. At the time, Mr. Gleason reported that since World War II, the clubs had nearly doubled to more than 500 with 600,000 members countrywide.
        During his leadership, the organization grew further and became more diverse in its membership. It also built a new headquarters facing the United Nations on First Avenue in Manhattan, known as the Hoover Memorial Building. Mr. Gleason retired in 1969.
        The organization became the Boys and Girls Clubs of America in 1990 and moved its headquarters to Atlanta last March. It has about 1,600 clubs, serving two million young people, ages 6 to 18.
        Mr. Gleason was born in the Bronx and grew up in Greenwich. He spent 25 years on the police force, starting as a patrolman in 1929. He completed police training schools at Harvard and Northwestern universities and graduated with highest honors from the F.B.I. National Academy in 1944.
        He was named Chief of Police in 1941. He also served as president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police and was a member and officer of various public panels, including the Attorney General's Conference on Organized Crime, the President's Highway Safety Conference in Washington, and the National Safety Council in Chicago.
        When Greenwich restructured its municipal government in 1954, the Board of Selectmen persuaded him to become Greenwich's first Town Administrator.
        After retiring from the Boys Clubs, he worked as a real estate agent. Until he moved to Charleston, he also remained active in civic affairs and served as coordinator of the Greenwich Community Development Action Plan.
        Mr. Gleason is survived by his wife of 66 years, Margaret Nicholson Gleason; a daughter, Nancy Scantom of Charleston; a son, John M. Jr., of Essex, Conn.; six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      