
        Ulysses Kay, a professor of music and a prolific composer of five operas, 20 large orchestral works and scores of choral, chamber and film compositions, died on Saturday in Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 78 and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        In a career that spanned half a century, Mr. Kay was invariably described by critics as one of America's leading black composers. Although the description was limiting, Mr. Kay readily accepted it on the grounds that it reflected the comparative dearth of classically trained black composers since World War II and an honest critical attempt to recognize his contributions to contemporary American composition.
        For more than 20 years, Mr. Kay was a professor of music at Herbert H. Lehman College and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.
        Mr. Kay described his work as "enlightened modernism," which critics said reflected a lyrical instinct superimposed on a dissonance and angularity generally required at the time in contemporary American composition.
        In 1952, Mr. Kay's "Suite for Strings" was characterized by Olin Downes, writing in The New York Times, as the work of a composer with "unmistakable gifts." Eleven years later, his "Fantasy Variations" was described in The Times by Harold C. Schonberg as a "pleasant work, conservative in style, rich in sound, skillful in construction."
        His last major work, the 1991 opera "Frederick Douglass," described the fight to free slaves. A 1976 opera, "Jubilee," was also based on the struggle for black freedom in the Civil War.
        In 1958, Mr. Kay took part in a cultural exchange of Soviet and American composers sponsored by the State Department. His "Overture to New Horizons" was played in Moscow by the State Radio Symphony Orchestra.
        Mr. Kay was born in Tucson, Ariz. The band leader King Oliver was his uncle. Mr. Kay received a degree in music from the University of Arizona in 1938 and later studied composition at the Eastman and Yale music schools. After serving in World War II, he studied at Columbia University. One of his most influential teachers was the composer Paul Hindemith.
        Mr. Kay received numerous awards and fellowships. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters and the League of Composers.
        He is survived by his wife and by three daughters, Virginia, of Rome; Melinda, of Manhattan, and Hillary, of Nyack, N.Y.
      