
        Seymour B. Durst, a Manhattan real-estate investor and developer who combined a passion for city history with an equally strong distaste for government involvement in land-use affairs, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 81.
        Mr. Durst had a stroke on May 12 and did not regain consciousness, said his son Douglas.
        First as a member and later as president of the family real-estate firm, the Durst Organization, Mr. Durst became perhaps the leading assembler of the parcels of land on which office buildings were developed in east and west midtown over the last 40 years. "I've spent most of my life buying buildings and canceling leases and negotiating to get tenants out," he once said in an interview.
        As developers, Mr. Durst and his brothers in the Durst Organization built first on the East Side and then on or near the Avenue of the Americas in the West 40's, on sites assembled by Seymour Durst. The West Side buildings were the fulfillment of his expectation 25 years ago that Manhattan growth would move to west midtown from east midtown, where his father, Joseph, was active before him.
        Joseph Durst, a garment manufacturer who arrived from Austria in 1902, founded the business in 1927. During the Depression, he bought mortgages and leases on East Side commercial buildings. Seymour joined the firm in 1940 and took the title president after his father died in 1974.
        The Dursts developed five office buildings on Third Avenue in the East 40's during the 1950's and 60's. Four of them -- all known by their addresses, Nos. 655, 675, 733 and 825 Third Avenue -- are still owned by the Dursts.
        While the Third Avenue development was proceeding, Seymour Durst began buying property in west midtown, especially between Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue and between 42d Street and Rockefeller Center. In one period, about 1965 to 1975, he owned or held options on about 10 acres of midtown land.
        On the sites that the Durst Organization itself developed now stand 1133 Avenue of the Americas, on the west blockfront from 43d to 44th Street, 1155 Avenue of the Americas, on the west blockfront from 44th to 45th Street, and 114 West 47th Street. They are part of a portfolio of 4.5 million square feet of office buildings owned by the Dursts. In addition, the firm's holdings include 60 residential buildings with 500 apartments and an assortment of commercial buildings, nearly all on land that the Dursts view as potential redevelopment sites.
        Fifteen midtown sites that Seymour Durst assembled were redeveloped by other builders. When Mr. Durst decided to hold an assemblage but had no quick prospect of finding a tenant for a new building, he would sometimes clear the site and build small stores -- he called them "taxpayers" -- to produce quick revenue until the market turned up.
        Unlike most developers, Mr. Durst gave public voice to his views on governmental affairs and found varied and even quirky ways to do so. Appalled by the growth in the national debt, for example, he established a "national debt clock" on one of his taxpayers on the Avenue of the Americas near 43d Street. It electronically reports an estimated second-by-second growth of the national debt, and each American household's average share of it.
        He tirelessly wrote articles and letters to the editor and took out pithy newspaper advertisements criticizing or poking fun at governmental intervention in the real-estate market. In the 1980's, he tried in court to block the New York State Urban Development Corporation from taking any land for the Times Square redevelopment project, now under way.
        In particular, Mr. Durst decried the drastic decline in private housing development in New York City over the last 20 years, which he ascribed primarily to irrational zoning regulations. He considered it absurd, for example, that New York keeps so much land in Manhattan zoned for manufacturing when there is little likelihood it can ever be developed for that use.
        In 1984, he collaborated with Andrew Alpern, an architect, on a book called "Holdouts!" (McGraw-Hill), detailing celebrated cases in which stubborn property owners thwarted developments. The accounts of how P. J. Clarke's, the saloon, was left standing when 919 Third Avenue was built at 55th Street in 1984, and how a Chock Full o' Nuts coffee shop tied up development from 1967 to 1980 at 135 Broadway, are retold in piquant detail.
        Mr. Durst's interests ranged further. In the early 1970's, he and Irving Kahn, a financier, founded the New York City Job and Career Center, teaching job skills to thousands of high school students.
        In semiretirement, he devoted himself to his passion for New York City history, expressed in a collection of 10,000 books, maps, prints, signs and other items that evolved as the Old York Library. It takes up most of the five-story town house on East 61st Street where he lived in recent years.
        He also had a principle in real-estate investment: don't buy anything you cannot walk to. The walk to 10th Avenue and 42d Street may have been a little farther than usual, but it took him to one of his most notable assemblages -- 82 parcels on the block between 42d and 43d Streets, from Ninth to 10th avenues -- put together over 25 years. He sold them in 1974 to HRH Construction Company, which built a large middle-income residential project, Manhattan Plaza.
        Another assemblage, still owned by the Dursts, is the land on the west side of Avenue of the Americas from 42d to 43d streets. In typical patient Durst fashion, he chose to build retail stores as an income-producing holding action.
        Mr. Durst, who is remembered by colleagues for his courtly manners even in difficult negotiations, insisted on paying only what he considered reasonable prices for land and holding it until natural market growth caught up, rather than paying top price for land that nearby development had already made more valuable.
        But during the slow-growth 1970's, those natural forces often brought pornographers as subtenants in his older buildings in the West 40's. The administration of former Mayor Abraham D. Beame attacked him as a coddler of pornographers.
        "We closed 100 pornography shops," Mr. Durst said then. But to demonstrate how difficult the eviction procedure could be in court, he sold one building to a woman who was already operating a notorious massage parlor in it. "Let the city evict her, since they weren't helping us to do it," he said.
        In the end, she defaulted on a large second mortgage from the Dursts. They recovered the building and demolished it as part of the site for a building for the United States Trust Company of New York, at 114 West 47th Street.
        Mr. Durst was born in Washington Heights. He graduated from the Horace Mann School in Riverdale, the Bronx, in 1931 and the University of Southern California, where he majored in accounting, in 1935. In 1940, he married Bernice Herstein, who died in 1950 at age 32. He never remarried.
        Besides Douglas, of Manhattan, Mr. Durst is survived by two other sons, Robert, of Manhattan, and Thomas G., of Ross, Calif.; a daughter, Mrs. Wendy Durst Kreeger of Larchmont, N.Y.; a sister, Alma Durst Askin of Manhattan; a brother, David M., of Chappaqua, N.Y., and eight grandchildren.
      