
        Edwin H. Shutt Jr., who led Tambrands Inc., a tampon manufacturer, when toxic-shock syndrome shook consumer confidence in the industry in the early 1980's, died on Dec. 23 at his home in Nassau County. He was 67.
        The cause was heart failure, according to a spokeswoman for the First National Bank of Long Island, where Mr. Shutt had been a member of the board of directors since 1989.
        A 1950 graduate of Princeton University, Mr. Shutt began his career in 1953 at Procter & Gamble, where he became vice president for international operations. In 1977, he moved to the Clorox Company, where he was named chief executive in 1980.
        A year later, he was recruited by Tambrands, in Lake Success, L.I., whose Tampax brand tampon dominates the world tampon market. He served for a year as president and then, from 1982 to 1989, as chief executive, with a mandate to lead the company into more diverse lines of business.
        But in his first years at the company, the tampon industry faced intense political scrutiny over its response to outbreaks of toxic-shock syndrome, a rare ailment that the Federal Food and Drug Administration found was associated with tampon use. While the syndrome was most widely linked to the Rely brand of tampon that Procter & Gamble removed from the market in 1980, Tambrands was later singled out for criticism at a Congressional hearing on toxic shock in July 1982. The company was criticized for deviating from the F.D.A.'s recommended warning language and for including the warning inside its packaging rather than on its label.
        Mr. Shutt stoutly defended the company's handling of the toxic-shock warning labels, and later diversified its product line. But when he retired in February 1989, at age 61, several Wall Street analysts who monitored the company's publicly traded stock attributed his departure to board-level disappointment with his diversification efforts.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Truesdale Shutt; a son, Edward T. Shutt of St. Louis; two daughters, Anne S. Collier of Boston, and Amy Louise S. Narishkin, of Aguascalientes, Mexico, and two grandchildren.
      