
        George Price, a cartoonist whose eccentric comic visions of natural disasters, feuding spouses and the habits of a distinctively odd cast of characters were staples of The New Yorker magazine for nearly six decades, died on Thursday at Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 93 and lived in Tenafly, N.J.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Price was the last surviving member of the generation of artists who shaped the look of The New Yorker in its early years.
        Mr. Price contributed more than 1,200 cartoons to the magazine since 1932, when his first "captioned drawing," the circumlocution for cartoon at the time, was accepted. It was in the early 1930's that Mr. Price and his friends William Steig and Charles Addams became mainstays at The New Yorker.
        "George came to the magazine during an extraordinary period in the history of American cartoon art, when a real revolution was going on," said Lee Lorenz, the art editor of The New Yorker. "He, Peter Arno, Charles Addams and others belonged to a new generation of cartoonists involved in the transition from the traditional illustrated anecdote -- the standard-form 'he-said-she-said' sort of thing -- to the captioned and uncaptioned cartoon as we know it today."
        The Price cartoon was as distinctive for its abstract line and geometric draftsmanship as it was for its curiosity shop of characters who were the antithesis of Arno's sophisticates.
        Some of Mr. Price's most memorable cartoons are chronicles of the domestic furies, like the one that shows a hard-hatted husband arriving in his living room after a day at work and announcing: "Honey! I'm home!" The deadpan response of his wife, in the kitchen, is, "Let heaven and nature sing."
        Mr. Price could also find humor in disaster. One cartoon depicts a flood survivor coolly water-skiing behind his swift-floating house as an onlooker says, "I must admit I envy his philosophy."
        "Only the best cartoonists create their own world," Mr. Lorenz said of Mr. Price. "He operated at a level of technical skill beyond that of most artists. He was an extraordinary draftsman."
        In that connection, the cartoonist Edward Koren, whose work Mr. Price admired, said: "I love to look at his line quality and the structural organization of his peculiar spaces, what he leaves in, what he doesn't, how he uses white space.
        "His drawing has the feeling of early, first-generation Cubism."
        Mr. Price was born on June 9, 1901, in Coytesville, N.J., in the borough of Fort Lee. His mother, Camille Vidal, was born in France; his father, George, was a "Yankee from Ohio," Mr. Price said. A carpenter and cabinetmaker, the elder Price built sets for many of the silent films made at the six movie studios near the Palisades in the early 1900's. Mr. Price's mother, a dressmaker, sewed costumes.
        Mr. Price once observed that the town's population was "inordinately loaded with oafs, nimble jacks and weirdos," many of whom found their way into his work.
        The local cast of characters, he said, included the regulars in Gus Becker's saloon; Cy Prosch, the town poet, who lived in a tool shed on the edge of town, and Mommy Baker, his next-door neighbor, who brewed Prohibition whisky in a still in her kitchen.
        Mr. Price said he believed he got his artistic talent from his father. An early artistic idol, and his first mentor, was the painter George (Pop) Hart, who lived across the street in Coytesville.
        "Having Pop Hart as a neighbor changed my life," Mr. Price said. It exposed him to the work of contemporary artists and introduced him to cartoonists from the New York newspapers. "The comic-strip guys would do their stuff for Hearst in New York, then come out with Pop for the weekend," he said. In this way he met George Herriman, the creator of Krazy Kat, and Thomas E. Powers, a political cartoonist.
        In the 1920's, Mr. Price did advertising art and contributed cartoons to Life, Judge, Collier's and The Saturday Evening Post. He then began contributing spot drawings to The New Yorker, with his first acceptance in 1929. In 1931, Katharine White, an editor at the magazine, asked him to try cartooning.
        In the 1930's, Mr. Price became a New Yorker contract cartoonist, giving the magazine first look at his work. He was a regular contributor until his death.
        Mr. Price was also a collector of early American furniture, glass and ceramics and of modern art. Brendan Gill, in his 1975 book "Here at The New Yorker," wrote, "It is fitting that this superlative depicter of domestic squalor should take care, in his own life, to surround himself with exquisite things."
        In his studio, he surrounded himself with the artifacts that inspired the clutter in his cartoons -- "my props," he called them -- including overstuffed armchairs from the 1920's, a trombone, assorted clocks and a black Morris chair.
        Mr. Price drew at a table in his skylighted studio under the gambrel roof of his landmark Dutch colonial house in Tenafly, his home since 1938. It was his custom to work late at night, to the strains of Brahms, Beethoven or Count Basie, scratching with a crow-quill pen on 2-by-3-foot rectangular sheets of paper. "The drawings got larger as I got older," he said.
        His output included 11 books, the last of which was "The World of George Price: A 55-Year Retrospective," published in 1988.
        Mr. Price's iconoclastic drawings always offered an unsentimental, unsparing view of their subjects, but in conversation, the artist was more the genial host than the curmudgeon. His conversation was flavored by a dry wit and punctuated by his deadpan delivery.
        In 1988, Mr. Price drew a cartoon depicting a geezerly husband addressing his spindly wife in their parlor. The husband, heading out the door in shorts and T-shirt, says to his spouse, "I'll be on the porch, pushing 90."
        "Unconsciously? I suppose it's me," Mr. Price said of the man in the cartoon. "It's a world of my own, and I guess I'm one of the characters."
        "There is nothing special about my life," he said in a 1988 interview. "I'm just a country boy who grew up in Coytesville, who liked to draw and stayed with it, and that's the story."
        Mr. Price's wife, Florence, died in 1980.
        He is survived by a daughter, Susan, of Tenafly; two sons, Wilfrid, of Berwyn, Pa., and Charles, of Tenafly; four grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 16, 1995, Monday
        An obituary on Saturday about the cartoonist George Price referred incorrectly to one of his fellow cartoonists at The New Yorker. William Steig is alive and still working.
      