
        Sterling Dow, a leading expert on Greek history of the fifth and fourth centuries B.C, died on Monday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 91 and lived in Cambridge.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said a grandson, Bradley M. Lown of Portsmouth, N.H.
        A scholar of history, the classics and archeology at Harvard University, Dr. Dow made discoveries that shed light on ancient Greek civilization and the Golden Age of Athens.
        During the early 1930's, he perfected a system of making paper impressions of ancient Greek inscriptions. The method allowed scholars to read inscriptions more completely and clearly than had previously been possible.
        At the same time, he discovered a kleroterion, a mechancial device that the Athenians had used to allot offices by random choice rather than through election. It helped to explain the nature of Athenian democracy.
        In additional research, he was able to suggest -- accurately, as it turned out -- that the ancient tablets found at Knossos, Mycenae and Pylos had been written in an early form of Greek. When they were eventually deciphered, in 1953, the tablets told of the civilization of the earliest immigrants to Greece.
        Dr. Dow, a native of Portland, Me., was educated at Harvard, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1926, a master's in 1928 and a doctorate in history in 1936. He then joined the faculty and in 1946 was made a professor of history and Greek. In 1949, he became John E. Hudson Professor of Archeology.
        After his retirement from Harvard in 1970, he became a professor of Greek civilization and history at Boston College, where he stayed until 1977. He then taught at Vassar College for a year.
        Dr. Dow was the founder of the periodical Archaeology and the author of more than 150 articles and reviews. The last of his five books, "A Century of Humane Archaeology," was published in 1979.
        His wife of 59 years, Elizabeth, died in 1990. In addition to Mr. Lown and four other grandchildren, he is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Dow Lown of Amherst, N.H., and Kennebunkport, Me.; two sisters, Betty Pritchett of Berkeley, Calif., and Harriet Dow of Albany, and three great-grandchildren.
      