
        Sir Anthony Wagner, a scholar of medieval history and former head of the College of Arms, Britain's official arbiter of heraldry, died in London on May 8. He was 86.
        His friend, Gerard Brault, an American medievalist, reported his death this week.
        Sir Anthony was Garter King of Arms, the senior herald of the 500-year-old college, from 1961 to 1978.
        In that post, he supervised the designing of coats of arms for new peerages and the granting (for a fee) of new coats of arms to contemporary worthies. He also decided who was entitled to display existing coats of arms, which derive their name from the brightly colored coats that medieval knights wore over their armor to distinguish helmeted friend from helmeted foe.
        Sir Anthony took the subsidiary position of Clarenceux King of Arms in 1978, but he remained active until his death. Last month he joined in a decision, announced this week, that rewrites the rules of heraldry to allow a married woman to display her own family's coat of arms.
        The College of Arms also organizes ceremonies of state. As Portcullis Pursuivant, a junior position he took upon graduation from Oxford in 1931, Sir Anthony led the Coronation procession of King George VI. He also supervised Winston Churchill's funeral and the investiture of Charles as Prince of Wales.
        Widely praised for restoring the scholarly reputation of the college, Sir Anthony, who was knighted when he became head of the college, was the author of numerous reference books, among them "Catalogue of English Medieval Rolls of Arms," "English Genealogy," "English Ancestry" and "Heralds of England."
        For all the snobbism associated with heraldry, Sir Anthony regarded himself as the antithesis of a snob. He liked to point out that his most illustrious ancestor had been hatter to King George I, and he often quoted Seneca's borrowing from Plato to the effect that there is no king who is not descended from a slave.
        A native of London, where his father operated a day school for boys, Sir Anthony was a scholarship student at Eton, where he served as George Orwell's servant. At Oxford, he received a degree in classics from Balliol College.
        Sir Anthony created a splash in the United States in 1939 when he disclosed research indicating that George Washington and Queen Elizabeth, now the Queen Mother, were distant cousins.
        He is survived by his wife, Gillian, two daughters and a son.
      