
        Bishop David E. Johnson, the retiring leader of the largest Episcopal diocese in the country, was found dead in his apartment on Sunday of a single gunshot wound to the chest.
        He "died by his own hand," said his elected successor, Bishop M. Thomas Shaw.
        Bishop Johnson, 61, apparently shot himself on Saturday with a .22-caliber rifle, said Martin F. Murphy, the First Assistant District Attorney in Middlesex County. There was no suicide note, Mr. Murphy said, and tests have not determined whether the shooting was a suicide or accidental.
        Bishop Shaw said in a statement, "This devastating time is filled with pain, anger and questioning for all of us who knew, worked with, loved and were loved by Bishop Johnson."
        Bishop Johnson led the Massachusetts diocese of the Episcopal Church, which has 193 congregations and 95,000 baptized members. During his tenure Bishop Barbara Clementine Harris became the first woman in the church's history to be consecrated as a suffragan bishop.
        He was elected Bishop Coadjutor of the Diocese of Massachusetts in 1985 and became Bishop in 1986.
        Bishop Johnson's tenure was marked by disputes over issues like whether the church should ordain homosexual priests and pragmatic issues like the governance of the parishes. In 1993 he became embroiled in a public battle over the music program at Emmanuel Church, in the Back Bay area of Boston, which is known for putting on the entire cycle of Bach's sacred cantatas. He suggested firing the music director for financial reasons.
        This year Bishop Johnson faced opposition at the Church of the Advent, on Beacon Hill. After he criticized the corporation that governs the church, it filed suit asking for a court injunction to keep him from interfering in the church's affairs.
        Bishop Johnson announced his retirement in November and was scheduled to step down on June 5. Bishop Shaw had already begun to assume the daily responsibilities of running the diocese.
        In retirement, Bishop Johnson was planning to move to Kansas to expand a tutoring program that he founded in Massachusetts. His wife, the former Joyce Evans, had already moved there.
        The Rev. Edward Rodman, who worked closely with Bishop Johnson, said periods of transition were always emotionally taxing. "It's a vulnerable time for people," he said. "Anyone leaving a job has regrets. Nobody's happy when you're leaving unfinished work, but he seemed excited about moving on."
        In addition to preaching regularly about world peace, AIDS and spirituality at the Cathedral of St. Paul, on the Boston Common, Bishop Johnson traveled around the diocese, visiting two parishes on most Sundays. He publicly supported the ordination of women as priests and bishops, but he did not favor the ordination of gay men and lesbians.
        David Elliot Johnson was born in Newark on April 17, 1933. He graduated from Trinity College in Hartford. He went to Virginia Theological Seminary, where he received a Master of Divinity degree. After he was ordained as a priest, he served at churches in Arkansas, Missouri and Florida before moving to Massachusetts.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three grown children, Stephanie, Elizabeth and Scott.
      