
        Charles B. McCoy, who as chairman and president of E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company helped turn a family-run company into a modern corporation, died on Monday at Stonegates, a retirement home in Greenville, Del. He was 85.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, from which he had suffered since 1989, said his son Robert, of Wilmington, Del.
        When Charles McCoy became president of Du Pont in 1967, he was only the second chief executive of the giant chemical company who was not related to the founding du Pont family. He became chairman in 1971.
        Mr. McCoy retired in 1973 but remained a member of the board until 1987. He also served on the boards of several other large corporations, including the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, TRW Inc. and Citicorp.
        As chief executive, Mr. McCoy was not known for making radical changes at the company, but was credited with bringing in professional managers and with cutting costs at Du Pont, which now earns most of its revenue from its energy, fibers and plastics businesses.
        While he was not a du Pont, Mr. McCoy was hardly an outsider: his father was a longtime executive of the company, and other members of his family also worked there.
        Charles Brelsford McCoy, who was known as Brel, was born in Oakland, Calif., where his father was on assignment for Du Pont. He received an undergraduate degree from the University of Virginia and a master's degree in chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        Despite his family connections, he began his career at Du Pont in 1932 by working as an hourly laborer in a factory that made cellophane.
        He held many jobs throughout his career, eventually becoming general manager of Du Pont's explosives department in 1960. In the same year he became a vice president and joined the company's board.
        Besides his son Robert, Mr. McCoy is survived by his wife, Sallie Curtis McCoy of Greenville, and two other sons, Charles Jr., of Steamboat Springs, Colo., and Thomas, of Kennett Square, Pa.
      