
        Paul Delouvrier, the French civil servant and economist who administered French Algeria in the late 1950's and then gave the environs of Paris their modern look, died on Monday. He was 80.
        Friends in Paris said he died in a hospital but did not disclose the cause.
        Mr. Delouvrier was closely associated with Jean Monnet, an early promoter of what became the European Union, and with de Gaulle, as General, Prime Minister and then President. He joined the Government in 1941 as an inspector of finances and first came to public attention in 1958 when de Gaulle abruptly ordered him to take over from the military as his chief executive in strife-torn Algeria.
        Today he is best remembered for overseeing the vast reconstruction that France undertook around its capital during the prosperity of the 1960's. He was the Government's chief representative for the Paris region from 1961 to 1969.
        According to some accounts, de Gaulle took him up in a helicopter, pointed at crumbling suburbs with their narrow streets and told him to clean them up.
        Mr. Delouvrier went to work, mapped out new satellite towns for hundreds of thousands of people and guided the construction. He was also credited with creating an efficient suburban commuter network that feeds into the Paris subway system, the Metro.
        He was an intellectual and a realist, a large man with the good looks of a movie actor. "I'm not big enough, my General," he protested when de Gaulle sent him to Algiers. De Gaulle's laconic answer: "You'll grow."
        Mr. Delouvrier's sensitive task was to prepare the transition to civilian rule and put in place an ambitious economic and social program for Algeria. As Delegate General -- or Governor -- from December 1958 to November 1960, he was in charge of France's attempts to quell the Algerian uprising even while ending the brutality with which the military countered the revolution.
        In addition, he had to negotiate with Algerian nationalists and deal with restive French settlers and the officers who staged the unsuccessful coup against de Gaulle's Government in April 1961. Independence came to Algeria the next year.
        Mr. Delouvrier was born in Remiremont in the Vosges mountains of eastern France and received the education to qualify him for the elite of the civil service. He played an active role in the French Resistance and took part in the liberation of Paris in 1944.
        After the war, he held various financial and economic posts and became a member of the bright, young team assembled by Mr. Monnet as he planned for the economic integration of Western Europe. He was working in Luxembourg directing the finance division of what was then the European Coal and Steel Union when he received de Gaulle's call in 1958.
        Mr. Delouvrier married Louise van Lith in 1946. They had a daughter and four sons.
      