
        Reece A. Overcash Jr., the chairman and chief executive of the Associates Corporation of North America, a financial service subsidiary of the Ford Motor Company, died today at the Zale Lipshy University Hospital in Dallas. He was 68 and lived in Dallas.
        The cause was a stroke that he suffered last week, the company said. Mr. Overcash, who had a colon tumor removed last September, had been undergoing chemotherapy.
        Mr. Overcash had been chief executive of the Associates Corporation, an international business and consumer lender, since 1978. It now has $35 billion in assets and 20 straight years of earnings growth through 1994.
        In 1989, Mr. Overcash helped engineer the sale of the company by Gulf and Western Industries, now known as Paramount Communications Inc., to Ford for $3.35 billion. It was then the nation's largest financial services acquisition.
        Mr. Overcash was also one of the most visible business executives in Dallas, the more so because his concern prospered in recent years while many of the region's largest banks and real estate concerns foundered.  He has directed the local United Way campaign, and, at his death, was on the boards of the A. H. Belo Corporation, the Duke Power Company and the National Gypsum Company.
        The Associates Corporation will be led for the time being by Keith Hughes, the company's president and chief operating officer.
        Born in Charlotte, N.C., Mr. Overcash served in the Army in World War II as an infantryman in Italy. After the war, he earned a degree in accounting at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
        He spent almost his entire career in lending and finance. He joined the Home Finance Group, which later became part of the American Credit Corporation at Wachovia Bank, in 1952. He became its chief executive in 1974. The next year, he was hired to be president of the Associates concern.
        Mr. Overcash is survived by his wife, Christa Lee; three daughters, Kay Overcash-Jenkins and Mary Ann Austin, both of Charlotte, and Sarah Lee Overcash of Superior, Wis.; a son, Alex Overcash, of Gunnison, Colo.; his father, Reece A. Overcash of Charlotte, and three grandchildren.
      