
        Dr. Robley C. Williams, a biophysicist noted for investigating the structure of viruses, died on Jan. 3 at the home of his daughter, Grace, in Oneonta, N.Y. He was 86.
        The cause was pneumonia after a long illness, his family said.
        Dr. Williams had started a career in astronomy when he began to focus his electron microscope on viruses. His exploits were featured in the book "Virus Hunters" (Knopf, 1959) by Greer Williams.
        He joined the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley in 1950 as a professor in the department of virology. He went on to serve as associate director of the virus laboratory and chairman of the department of molecular biology. He was also professor of molecular biology until 1976, when he became professor emeritus of microbiology and biophysics.
        Dr. Williams was the 1954 recipient of the annual John Scott Award for "outstanding scientific research and progress" from the City of Philadelphia, one of the United States' oldest scientific honors. The citation was for his invention of a thermal vacuum-evaporation method to coat mirrors with thin metal films.
        The process has practical application in making mirrors of all types, for use in fields from astronomy to biology. The technique was used to coat extremely small specimens, like viruses, in preparation for photographing them under the electron microscope. This enabled researchers to get clear pictures of viruses and other transparent specimens.
        Born in Santa Rosa, Calif., Robley Cook Williams graduated from Cornell University, where he also earned his Ph.D. in physics in 1935. Still in graduate school, he investigated the possibility of making mirrors that are long-lasting and that reflect ultraviolet light effectively.
        In 1944, when the electron microscope was new, he used it to study the surfaces of mirrors at the University of Michigan as an assistant professor of astronomy. Along the way, he met Prof. Ralph W. G. Wyckoff, who trained the same microscope on viruses.
        Together they devised a way to reveal the heights and shapes of these particles, viewing them as they rested on a flat surface and evaporating metal in a way that made them cast a "shadow." In the same fashion that astronomers measure inaccessible lunar mountains by observing the length of their shadows, the two scientists limned the contours of viruses.
        Intrigued, Dr. Williams left astronomy for virology and the budding field of biophysics. At Berkeley, he continued to apply the electron microscope to study the structures of biological objects, reporting his research in more than 100 articles.
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1955, the year after he and Prof. Heinz Fraenkel-Conrat succeeded in reconstituting a virus. They separated it into its constituent protein and nucleic-acid components and put them back together into biologically active virus particles.
        As professor emeritus, Dr. Williams kept up his active research until 1985.
        He is survived by his wife of 62 years, Margery Ella Ufford Williams; their daughter, Grace Smith; a son, Robley C. Jr., of Nashville, and four grandchildren.
      