
        Frederick J. Schlink, a founding father of the American consumers movement and a best-selling writer on consumerism, died on Sunday at Warren Hospital in Phillipsburg, N.J. He was 103 and lived in Washington, N.J.
        He died after a brief illness, said Peter L. Spencer, editor of Consumers' Research magazine.
        Mr. Schlink was the co-founder, with Stuart Chase, of the Consumers' Club, which sought to protect the consumer by publicizing defective and unsafe products. The club started with 300 members in 1927. The two men were co-authors that year of "Your Money's Worth" (Macmillan), a buyers-beware book that inspired them to start the club.
        They incorporated the club as Consumers' Research Inc. in 1931, making it the nation's first independent organization to test consumer products and report on them by brand name. Mr. Schlink became its president and technical director at its laboratory in Bowerstown, N.J.
        The number of subscribers grew rapidly until a bitter strike for union recognition at the laboratory in 1935. Mr. Schlink said he suspected labor unions of Communist leanings and stood firmly against their demands. The 70 strikers then banded together to found the competing Consumers Union, publisher of Consumer Reports, which eventually grew into the world's largest organization for product testing and analysis.
        Mr. Schlink stayed at the helm of the smaller Consumers' Research until 1983. Since then, Mr. Spencer said, the organization stopped testing and concentrated on magazine articles about pocketbook, regulatory and health and safety issues.
        Frederick John Schlink was born to German immigrants in Peoria, Ill., on Oct. 26, 1891. He graduated from the University of Illinois, where he also received a master's degree in engineering in 1917.
        Mr. Schlink began his career as a physicist and technical assistant at the National Bureau of Standards. Before opening the consumers' club, he worked on specifications and standards for the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company in Akron, Ohio, the Western Electric Company in New York and what later became the American National Standards Institute.
        He was the co-author, with Arthur Kallet, of "100,000,000 Guinea Pigs" (Vanguard, 1933), an appeal for Federal food and drug regulations that stayed on the best-seller list for many months. Another successful book, "Eat, Drink and Be Wary" (Covici, Friede; 1935) was reprinted a few years ago by Ayer in its "Getting and Spending: The Consumers' Dilemma" series; it remains in print.
        Mr. Schlink is survived by a daughter, Sharon Kay Kocher of Washington, N.J., and two grandsons. His wife and frequent collaborator, Mary Catherine Phillips, who used the pen name M. C. Phillips, died in 1981.
      