
        President Clinton eulogized former Senator J. William Fulbright today as a mentor and an inspiration, a man who "stood against the 20th century's most destructive forces and fought to advance its brightest hopes."
        Mr. Fulbright, an Arkansas Democrat, represented the President's home state in the House and Senate from 1942 to 1974, a Congressional career that began four years before Mr. Clinton's birth and ended in the year he entered public life.
        In those 32 years, "Bill Fulbright changed our country and our world forever and for the better," the President said in a memorial service at the National Cathedral. "He lived with passion tempered by reason. He loved politics but cautioned against the arrogance of power."
        Mr. Fulbright, who was 89, died of a stroke on Feb. 9 at his home in Washington. He was chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 1966 when he hired Mr. Clinton, then a student at Georgetown University. Two years later Mr. Clinton, following the Senator's footsteps, became a Rhodes scholar.
        In a speech that sometimes seemed self-referential, Mr. Clinton recalled how he had watched Mr. Fulbright struggle -- "trying to learn, trying to understand and trying to be understood" -- in opposing the Vietnam War. "Often against great odds and sometimes at great personal cost," Mr. Clinton said, Mr. Fulbright made that opposition known.
        The President cited a letter he said Mr. Fulbright had received from a constituent during the war that said, in part: "I have never voted for you. I have never missed a chance to belittle you. But deep inside me there was a nagging suspicion that I have been wrong. This old world has always nailed its prophets to trees, so don't be surprised at those who come at you with hammers and spikes."
        Mr. Fulbright, who opposed civil rights legislation throughout his political career, was praised by the Rev. Elton Smith, a black vicar of the National Cathedral, who recalled his gratitude, as an enlisted man on the battlefield in Vietnam, for Mr. Fulbright's opposition to the war.
        Mr. Fulbright's political dissent, Mr. Smith said, was "an act of faith in humanity," a concrete effort toward "the building of human community."
        "And in this town," he added, "this was a vision that could be mocked."
        Mr. Fulbright was also remembered at today's service with a soaring choral performance of "Amazing Grace" and fond tributes from his family. His son-in-law, Edward Foote, recalled Mr. Fulbright's Oxford-polished Arkansas drawl, his complex mind and his simple tastes, the withering look of deep skepticism with which he fixed Presidents and other politicians with whom he disagreed, his wry and kind wit, and his love of rooting through bins at farmers' markets until he found the perfect piece of fruit.
        Mr. Fulbright was born to a well-to-do family on April 9, 1905, in Sumner, Mo., and grew up on the outskirts of Fayetteville, Ark. He was only 34 years old when he was named president of the University of Arkansas in 1939. He was elected to the House in 1942 and to the Senate in 1944.
        Mr. Fulbright's love of education, combined with his interest in foreign policy and politics, led him in 1945 to conceive the Fulbright scholarships. Under this exchange program, nearly 250,000 Americans have gone abroad and foreign students have come to the United States to study, and it is the former Senator's "most profound legacy," Mr. Clinton said today.
        "The Fulbright scholarship program is a perfect example of Bill Fulbright's faith: different kinds of people learning side by side, building what he called a capacity for empathy, a distaste for killing other men and an inclination for peace," the President said. "It includes as its alumni Nobel Prize winners, members of Congress, leaders for peace and freedom the world over, and many not-so-famous people who went home to live out the faith of Senator Fulbright.
        "No matter what their native tongue, all of them are now known by the same name: Fulbrights," Mr. Clinton added. "In a way, a lot of us here, especially those of us from Arkansas and those who worked for him in other ways over the years are also, in our own way, Fulbrights."
        Mr. Fulbright, the President concluded, "was the heir of Jefferson in our time; he believed in the American idea."
      