
        Eric A. Walker, a former president of Pennsylvania State University, died Friday afternoon at his home in State College, Pa. He was 84.
        The cause was a heart ailment, said Roger Williams, a spokesman for the university.
        Dr. Walker was the second former president of the university to die this month. Dr. John W. Oswald, who succeeded Dr. Walker as president in 1970, died on Feb. 1.
        Dr. Walker presided over a period of expansion at Penn State during his presidency, which began in 1956. Enrollment tripled to 40,000; the faculty doubled; more than 100 new buildings were constructed, and the Milton S. Hershey Medical Center was established.
        He was born in Long Eaton, England, on April 29, 1910, and immigrated to Saskatchewan, Canada, in 1921. In 1923, he moved to Wrightsville, Pa., to live with an aunt. He attended Harvard University, where he earned an undergraduate degree in electrical engineering, a master's degree in business administration and a doctorate in general science and engineering.
        He taught at Tufts University and the University of Connecticut before returning to Harvard, where he worked in the Underwater Sound Laboratory devising new types of torpedoes to attack German submarines during World War II.
        When the laboratory was divided into two groups in 1945, Dr. Walker supervised the group transferred to Penn State as the Ordnance Research Laboratory. He directed the laboratory, now the Applied Research Laboratory, and was head of the electrical engineering department from 1945 to 1951. He served as dean of the College of Engineering and Architecture from 1951 until his appointment as university president in 1956, succeeding Milton S. Eisenhower.
        He wrote more than 300 publications and received many awards, including a Presidential Certificate of Merit for his wartime anti-submarine work and numerous honors from engineering societies. In 1972, the United Stated Geological Survey named one of Antarctica's glacial ridges after him.
        After his retirement from Penn State, he worked for the Aluminum Company of America for five years as vice president for science and technology.
        Dr. Walker is survived by his wife, Josephine; a daughter, Gail Walker Hearn; a son, Brian Walker, and two grandchildren.
      