
        Massimo Pallottino, an Italian archeologist who was an authority on the Etruscans, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Rome. He was 85.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Larissa Bonfante, a classics professor at New York University and also an expert on the Etruscans, who flourished between the eighth and first centuries B.C. in Italy, said yesterday that Professor Pallottino was the world's "dean of Etruscan studies."
        Professor Pallottino taught at the University of Rome for most of his teaching career. At his death, he was the president of the Dante Alighieri Society, an international Italian cultural organization.
        In a 1942 book that was published in English as "The Etruscans" in 1955, he presented a view of the Etruscans' origins that has gained wide acceptance. He noted that there were various theories as to where they originally come from, and he contended: "No one would dream of asking where Italians or Frenchmen came from originally; it is the formation of the Italian and French nations that we study."
        "The formative process" of the Etruscan nation, he went on, took place "on the territory of Etruria proper, and we are able to witness the final stages of this process thanks to the rich archeological documentation we possess for the period from the eighth to the sixth century" B.C.
        In 1964, Professor Pallottino was in charge of an excavation 20 miles northwest of Rome, at the ancient Etruscan port of Pyrgi. The excavators found three gold tablets, dating from around 500 B.C., which had inscriptions recording the dedication of a temple by an Etruscan king to a goddess.
        One tablet bore a long inscription in the Etruscan language. Another had a version of that Etruscan text, but in the language of the ancient Phoenicians. The third contained a short summary, in Etruscan, of the long Etruscan inscription.
        He studied the inscriptions and, Professor Bonfante said, "They advanced our knowledge of Etruscan international relations, history and religion and of the Etruscan language."
        A native of Rome, Professor Pallottino studied at the University of Rome. His many other writings include the book "A History of Earliest Italy" (1990, University of Michigan Press).
        His survivors include his wife, Maria, and three children.
      