
        Dr. Bernard V. Dryer, a physician, medical educator and best-selling novelist, died on Wednesday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 77.
        He had had Parkinson's disease for 15 years, his family said.
        Dr. Dryer was an early advocate of continuing medical education and helped to establish guidelines for how doctors could stay abreast of advances in their fields. He was also a pioneer in the use of film and television to teach medicine.
        A native of Bridgeport, Conn., he was studying at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., intending to pursue a medical career, when he won a national playwriting contest in 1937; Arthur Miller was also a winner that year. The award provided Dr. Dryer the opportunity to attend the Yale University School of Drama for three years.
        In 1948, Dr. Dryer published his first novel, "Port Afrique," a melodrama set in North Africa that was made into a movie in 1956. In 1952, after an interlude of several years, he resumed his medical studies at Western Reserve University (now Case Western Reserve University), in Cleveland, receiving his medical degree in 1956.
        As a physician, Dr. Dryer was affiliated with several universities, including the University of Pittsburgh, the University of Minnesota and the University of Missouri at Kansas City. He also worked as a consultant to the American Medical Association and produced more than 100 medical teaching films on diverse subjects like basic science, pathology and orthopedics.
        In 1962, he directed a study for the American Medical Association, "Lifetime Learning for Physicians," that outlined plans for the broad postgraduate education of doctors through taped lectures, books, films and other media.
        In 1987, he wrote, with Ellen S. Kaplan, the book "Inside Insomnia: How to Sleep Better Tonight." He was also the author of the novels "The Image Makers" (1958), a story of a plastic surgeon from Connecticut in Paris, which was on The New York Times best-seller list for 37 weeks, and "The Torch Bearers" (1968), a tale of international intrigue that a reviewer in The Times called "a big, sprawling, comfortable work of fiction." Dr. Dryer also wrote and produced several radio series, including "The Human Adventure" in 1940, which won a Peabody Award for best education radio series, and "Cavalcade of America," from 1944 to 1946.
        Dr. Dryer, who was a longtime resident of Rye, N.Y., before moving to Florida, is survived by his wife, Esther, of Palm Beach, Fla.; two daughters, Donna, of Baltimore, and Joy, of New York, and two grandsons.
      