
        Paul D. Stroop, a vice admiral who became a weapons expert and Commander of the Naval Air Force, Pacific Fleet, during a 39-year naval career, died on Wednesday at the Coronado Hospital in Coronado, Calif. He was 90. He had lived in the San Diego area since his retirement in 1965.
        A veteran of World War II and Korea, he often found himself in the role of planner or administrator, rather than the combat roles he preferred. When the Navy decided in 1959 to merge the 117-year-old Bureau of Ordnance and the Bureau of Aeronautics, he was named by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to be the first chief of the new Bureau of Naval Weapons.
        He brought together the divergent operating policies of the two departments -- Ordnance had a long history of developing its own weapons, and the younger Aeronautics frequently used private manufacturers for its newer missile systems.
        In World War II, he earned the Legion of Merit while serving aboard the aircraft carrier Lexington in the Battle of the Coral Sea. He went on to serve on the staff of Adm. E. G. King, the commander of the United States Fleet in the Pacific, before assignments to military conferences in Quebec, Malta, Yalta and Potsdam as an aviation plans officer.
        He received a second Legion of Merit citation in 1951 while commanding the cruiser Princeton in the Sea of Japan during the Korean War. He was promoted to rear admiral the following year and became a vice admiral in 1962 when he was named Commander of the Naval Air Force in the Pacific.
        Born in Zanesville, Ohio, he grew up in Mobile, Ala. He graduated from the Naval Academy in 1926. An intercollegiate champion gymnast, he was a member of the United States Olympics team that went to Amsterdam in 1928.
        After his retirement in 1965, he was a consultant to Ryan Aeronautical and Teledyne Ryan of San Diego until 1992.
        He was married to Esther Holscher Stroop from 1926 until her death in 1982. He is survived by his wife, Kay Roeder Stroop; two sons, Paul D. Jr. of Huntsville, Ala., and Patrick Allen of Annapolis, Md.; two daughters, Margaret Ann Wells of San Diego, and Barbara Winthrop Draddy of Vienna, Va.; three stepdaughters, Franke Haimberger of Milton-Freewater, Ore., Anne Roeder of Coronado, and Kathleen Bell of Chagrin Falls, Ohio; a stepson, Comdr. Bernard F. Roeder Jr. of Newport, R.I.; 13 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      