
        Dr. Kenneth M. Setton, one of the foremost interpreters of medieval Europe and the Crusades, the papacy and the dawn of the Renaissance, died on Saturday at Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 80.
        The cause was complications from a stroke he suffered a few weeks ago, according to the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, of which Dr. Setton was a former faculty member.
        Dr. Setton, who was a Princeton resident, had been preparing his latest book, "Venetian and British Reports from Istanbul in the 18th Century," for publication. A spokesman for the institute, Norman H. McNatt, said it is expected to be issued by the American Philosophical Society, one of his principal publishers.
        He joined the Institute for Advanced Study in 1968 as a professor of history and reached emeritus status in 1984. The institute, not part of Princeton University, is a community of scholars who spend their time reading, thinking, writing and researching and are free of any academic obligations.
        Dr. Setton spent nearly two decades finishing his four-volume "The Papacy and the Levant, 1204-1571" (American Philosophical Society, 1976-1984). A classic study of the era, it remains in print.
        He was the editor in chief of a five-volume "History of the Crusades" (University of Wisconsin Press, 1955-1990). It remains available in reprint, along with an exhaustive bibliography of the Crusades.
        His other textbooks included "Christian Attitudes Toward the Emperor in the Fourth Century" (Columbia University Press, 1941), "Venice, Austria and the Turks in the 17th Century" (American Philosophical Society, 1991) and "Western Hostility to Islam" (American Philosophical Society, 1992.) Dr. Setton also wrote "Catalan Domination of Athens, 1311-1388"; "Europe and the Levant in the Middle Ages and Renaissance" and "Athens in the Middle Ages," which are no longer in print.
        Dr. Setton, who was born in New Bedford, Mass., was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Boston University. He received his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Columbia University. He started his academic career in 1940 as an instructor in classics and history at Boston University.
        Before joining the Institute for Advanced Study, he taught medieval history at Columbia and at the University of Pennsylvania, where he also served as Director of Libraries from 1955 to 1965. He was a past president of the Medieval Academy of America and vice president of the American Philosophical Society. His many distinctions included the John Frederick Lewis Prize of the Philosophical Society in 1957, 1984 and 1990 and the Haskins Medal of the Medieval Academy.
        Dr. Setton is survived by a son, George W. T., of Chicago. His first wife, Josephine Swift Setton, died in 1967, and his second, Margaret Henry Setton, died in 1987.
      