
        Francois Boutin, one of the most renowned horse trainers in Europe, died yesterday at a hospital in Paris, not far from the training center where he developed Arazi and other leading race horses. He was 58.
        He had been suffering from liver cancer.
        Boutin was already regarded as perhaps the most successful horse trainer in Europe when he brought the 2-year-old colt Arazi to the United States in the fall of 1991. And he became just as renowned on this side of the Atlantic when Arazi dazzled the public and outran 13 rivals with a skyrocketing dash from last place to first to win the Breeders' Cup Juvenile by five lengths at Churchill Downs in Kentucky.
        As a result, people began comparing Arazi to the legendary Secretariat, and Arazi was made the instant favorite to win the Kentucky Derby the following spring. But for him and his trainer, the road back to Louisville turned tortuous.
        A few days after the Breeders' Cup, the colt underwent surgery to remove chips from both knees. Then he was flown back to Europe and spent several months recovering. Arazi had only one prep race in the spring of 1992, winning with ease at St. Cloud outside Paris, but when the colt returned to the United States for the Kentucky Derby, he ran a disappointing eighth.
        Boutin's relations with the American public during that time were strained, even though the key decisions on the horse's agenda were made by his co-owners, Allen E. Paulson and Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum of Dubai. Later that year, Boutin was found to be suffering from cancer, and he was forced to reduce his public travels and even appearances.
        Francois Boutin was a farmer's son, born in the village of Beaunay in Normandy. He got into the horse business as a rider in show-jumping and cross-country events and was an accomplished trotting driver and amateur rider. He started training thoroughbreds as an assistant to Etienne Pollet for four years and became a trainer himself in 1964.
        He grew into an urbane, white-haired man who smoked cigars and wore elegantly casual country clothing as he presided over a horse-training empire from his home base in Lamorlaye, France, where he lived with his wife, Lucy Young Ruspoli, the daughter of William T. Young, a noted horseman from Lexington, Ky.
        He also trained several champions in the United States. In 1982, he saddled April Run, who became North America's champion female horse on grass. In 1987 and again in 1988, he saddled the mare Miesque, who won the Breeders' Cup Mile and also the title of champion grass horse.
        His horses also raced with distinction in England and won almost every major race in France. His best horses included Northern Baby, L'Emigrant, Blushing John, Hector Protector, Baillamont, Priolo, Northern Trick, Miswaki, Seattle Song and Machiavellian.
        But Boutin insisted that Arazi was the best horse he had ever seen or saddled.
        In one of his infrequent public appearances during his illness, he watched his colt Kingmambo, the first foal of Miesque, win the 2,000 Guineas at Longchamp in the colors of Stavros Niarchos. The trainer stayed in his private booth, but received a standing ovation from the crowd as the winner was announced.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by their two daughters, Patricia and Nathalie, and a son, Eric, from a previous marriage.
      