
        James Herriot, the author whose "All Creatures Great and Small" and 17 other books have drawn even the most urban of readers into a magical country world of animals and their veterinarians, died yesterday at his home near Thirsk, Yorkshire, in northern England. He was 78 years old.
        The cause was cancer, said Thomas McCormack, his editor at St. Martin's Press.
        In the 22 years since "All Creatures Great and Small," his first work, appeared, Mr. Herriot produced a dozen other best-selling books. Each was filled with heartwarming stories, told in simple prose, of ailing animals and their owners and the veterinarians who tramp across the muddy fields of North Yorkshire at all hours of day and night.
        Mr. Herriot, whose real name was James Alfred Wight, was born in Glasgow in 1916. In 1940, after graduating from Glasgow Veterinary College, he moved to the rural community where his books are set.
        From his earliest days in practice, he kept a daybook in which he recorded the details of his treatment of animals. At dinner time, those who knew him said, he told the warm, often humorous anecdotes to family and friends, and he vowed to write them as stories someday.
        At the age of 53, Mr. Herriot bought a typewriter and began to write, first in a back room, then, when he got lonely, in a family room, as his son and daughter watched television, Mr. McCormack said. It was while writing his first book and watching a British soccer match at the same time that the Yorkshire vet decided to take as his pen name the name of a Scottish goalie.
        "All Creatures Great and Small" was published in 1972, and later inspired a popular BBC series. It became a best seller, but not until word-of-mouth enthusiasm sparked reviews months after its publication.
        In the 1980's, as he began to retire from his veterinary practice, Mr. Herriot wrote a series of storybooks for children, including "Moses the Kitten" (1986) and "The Christmas Day Kitten" (1986). Then, in 1992, he brought his veterinary adventures up to date with "Every Living Thing," which was praised in a review in The New York Times as being "full of innocent and uncontrived charm."
        With more than 60 million copies of his books in print, Mr. Herriot is the top-selling author at St. Martin's. His most recent book, "James Herriot's Cat Stories," an illustrated collection of stories from his earlier writings, was published in September and has been on the New York Times best-seller list for 22 weeks.
        "James's unique blend of warmth and joy and skill as a writer made him perhaps the most personally beloved storyteller of his time," said Mr. McCormack, the chairman of St. Martin's Press and Mr. Herriot's editor since 1972. "When people ask me what he was like, I say, 'If you know his books you know James.' More than any other author I've met, he was his books."
        In each of Mr. Herriot's books, a familiar stage is set: there are mystery illnesses, bad-tempered humans who always come around in the end, fussy owners who imagine their pets to have a variety of ailments and a succession of characters who attract the love of animals in spite of themselves.
        In 1979, Mr. Herriot was awarded the Order of the British Empire.
        "It is arguable that James Herriot has done more for his veterinary colleagues than any television series ever did for the mainstream branch of the medical profession," Maeve Binchy wrote in a 1992 review of "Every Living Thing" in The New York Times.
        Mr. Herriot was hospitalized last year after being attacked by a flock of sheep. In what might have been a scene from one of his books, he was apparently trying to stop the sheep from eating plants on his lawn when they butted and trampled him, breaking his leg.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Herriot was writing an introduction to another collection, to be published next year, "James Herriot's Favorite Dog Stories." His earlier collection "James Herriot's Dog Stories" was a best seller.
        Mr. Herriot is survived by his wife, Joan Wight; a son, James; a daughter, Rosemary Page, all of Yorkshire, and four grandchildren.
      