
        Paul L. Bates, the white colonel who commanded the first black tank battalion to enter combat in World War II, died on Tuesday at his home in Dunedin, Fla. He was 86.
        The cause was cancer, said a daughter-in-law, Dorothy Bates, of Bloomfield, Mich., and Manhattan.
        In January 1943, about two years after he joined the Army, Colonel Bates took command of the 761st Tank Battalion, all of whose enlisted men were black.
        The 761st entered combat in November 1944 as part of Gen. George S. Patton's Third Army and fought for 183 consecutive days without relief, according to David Williams, a veteran of the battalion and the author in the early 1980's of "Hit Hard" (Bantam), an account of the unit.
        The battalion fought in France, then in Germany, where it pierced the Siegfried Line, and then in Belgium, where it fought the Nazis in the Battle of the Bulge. It also fought in Luxembourg and Austria. In all, the 761st Tank Battalion went from Vic-sur-Seille, France, to the Enns River in Steyr, Austria, where it linked up with the Soviet Army.
        The unit, whose shoulder patch had a black panther, inflicted thousands of casualties on the enemy and captured, destroyed or liberated more than 30 major towns, 4 airfields, 3 ammunition-supply dumps, 461 wheeled vehicles, 34 tanks, 113 large guns and a radio station.
        Colonel Bates was the first member of the 761st to be wounded. Among its 687 enlisted men and 41 officers, 276 received the Purple Heart for wounds in action and 36 died in combat.
        In 1978, after a 33-year struggle by the unit's veterans, President Jimmy Carter awarded the 761st a Presidential Unit Citation "for extraordinary heroism in action."
        When the unit completed training in rigidly segregated boot camps in Louisiana and Texas, Colonel Bates refused a promotion from lieutenant colonel that would have separated him from what he regarded as one of the best tank battalions in the Army. He was eventually promoted to full colonel.
        While in Texas, Colonel Bates refused to court-martial a black officer who had refused to move to the rear of a bus at Fort Hood. The officer was Jackie Robinson, who was subsequently court-martialed but not convicted and left the 761st before it went overseas. Praising Colonel Bates for his fairness and good judgment, Robinson, who would break the color line in major league baseball, recounted the incident in his autobiography.
        In 1993, the unit made news because of a PBS documentary, "Liberators: Fighting on Two Fronts in World War II," in which two of its former enlisted men said the battalion had participated in the liberation of the Dachau and Buchenwald concentration camps. But Colonel Bates and other officers, noting that the unit was spread over a 50-mile front supporting the 71st Infantry Division at the time, would not confirm the claim. The unit did liberate Gunskirchen, a subcamp of the Mauthausen complex.
        Colonel Bates, who was born in Los Angeles, graduated in 1931 with a degree in economics from Western Maryland College, where he was a star football player and a member of the Reserve Officer Training Corps. He worked as a high school football coach and a teacher before entering the Army as a first lieutenant in February 1941.
        During World War II, he was awarded the Silver Star, two Bronze Stars in addition to the Purple Heart. In 1963, he was awarded the Legion of Merit when he retired from the Army, having served in combat commands in Europe, at the Command and General Staff College in Fort Leavenworth, Kan., and at the Pentagon.
        He remained in close touch with veterans of the 761st and their families, attending yearly reunions and establishing a scholarship at Western Maryland for descendants of members of the battalion.
        Colonel Bates, who will be buried on Wednesday with full military honors at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia, is survived by his wife, the former Helen Rosen of Dunedin; his sons, Baron, of Bloomfield, Mich., and Manhattan, and Paul Jr., of Southboro, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      