
        O Jin U, the North Korean Defense Minister and long-time army leader in perhaps the most militarized country in the world, died today. He was 77.
        The cause of death was cancer, the official Korea Central News Agency reported. Mr. O received treatment for lung cancer in Paris in October.
        Mr. O was probably the second most powerful figure in North Korea, after Kim Jong Il, but it is unclear what -- if any -- effect his death will have on the country's hard-line policies. North Korea remains such a closed society that the only clear consequence is a hastening of the generational transition to younger leaders.
        Mr. O's death comes just seven months after the death of North Korea's president and Communist Party leader, Kim Il Sung. While Kim Il Sung's son, Kim Jong Il, appears to be consolidating power, he has not yet formally assumed the top positions in his country.
        Mr. O was a longtime member of the Politburo's presidium, the highest ruling body in the Communist nation. He ranked number two, after Kim Jong Il, and he had led the army since 1976, although Kim Jong Il took nominal control over the armed forces in 1993. Before that, Mr. O played a strong role in the three-year-long Korean war, which ended in 1953.
        "His death is an irretrievable big political loss to our party," the official Korean Central News Agency said today.
        There have been signs that the military may be less enthusiastic than North Korea's Foreign Ministry about an agreement reached late last year between the United States and North Korea on ending the Korean nuclear program and improving ties between the two countries. But it is unclear who, if anyone, will emerge as the next undisputed leader of the North Korean Army, and it is difficult to know what the consequences will be for implementation of the accord with Washington.
        Partly because the agreement remains fragile, the United States and South Korea reportedly canceled joint military exercises planned for this spring. North Korea always denounces the exercises.
      