
        George E. MacKinnon, a fiercely independent judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit for a quarter of a century, died on Monday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 89.
        He had been in failing health, said his wife, Elizabeth, but had continued to work on a reduced schedule until March.
        Judge MacKinnon was widely viewed as a conservative when President Richard M. Nixon appointed him to the appellate bench in 1969. At the time, the court was considered among the most liberal in the country.
        But in the late 1980's, when Republicans wanted to repeal the law creating independent counsels to investigate alleged wrongdoing in the executive branch, Judge MacKinnon defended the law. From 1985 on, he was the presiding judge on the three-member panel that appoints such counsels.
        "I don't see any unfairness about it," he said about the law in 1987. "Where else are you going to turn? The courts inherently have the power to see that justice is done."
        In 1988 a majority of the appeals court ruled that the independent-counsel law was unconstitutional. Judge MacKinnon dissented, and for it, was criticized by name in the majority opinion written by a colleague, Judge Laurence H. Silberman.
        The Supreme Court, in a 7-to-1 decision, overturned the appellate decision.
        For six years, beginning in 1985, Judge MacKinnon served on the United States Sentencing Commission, which established uniform sentencing guidelines for Federal crimes. Again, he came in conflict with fellow judges, when some 200 of them declared in opinions that the guidelines were unconstitutional. But, again, Judge MacKinnon's position was eventually upheld by the Supreme Court.
        When the Justice Department sought to incorporate the sentencing commission into the executive branch, Judge MacKinnon fought the idea as something that "could have resulted in tyranny," because it would join prosecuting and sentencing authorities in one branch of Government. Once more, his position was vindicated in a Supreme Court ruling.
        As an appellate judge, he frequently dissented from the majority, but found himself in harmony with the Supreme Court. For example, in its review of 29 decisions of the District of Columbia Circuit over one period, the Supreme Court reversed 25 of the rulings, and in each of those 25, Judge MacKinnon had been in dissent.
        In Barnes v. Costle in 1977, Judge MacKinnon held that sexual harassment could be considered a form of sex discrimination, a ruling that paralleled the view of his daughter, Catherine MacKinnon, who was then a young legal essayist concerned with feminist issues.
        George E. MacKinnon was born April 22, 1906, in St. Paul. He attended the University of Colorado for a year and then transferred to the University of Minnesota, where he received a law degree in 1929. He then served as a staff lawyer for Investors Syndicate, now known as Investors Diversified Services, a major mutual fund.
        He was a member of the Minnesota Legislature from 1934 until the United States entered World War II, and while there, he helped draft the progressive legislative program of Gov. Harold E. Stassen, a moderate Republican.
        In 1946, he was elected to the United States House of Representatives.  During his single term, he and Mr.  Nixon, who was then a Congressman, helped draft what became the Taft-Hartley Act, which bars unions from a forcing worker to join them to hold a job.
        He also worked with Mr. Nixon in investigating whether Alger Hiss had passed Government secrets to the Soviet Union.
        In 1953, he was named United State Attorney in Minnesota and used the position to pursue organized-crime figures.
        In addition to his wife of 57 years, and his daughter, Catherine, of Ann Arbor, Mich., he is survived by two sons, James D. and Leonard D., both of Minneapolis, and four grandchildren.
      