
        Kenneth Merwin Spang, a New York economist and banker who played a leading role in persuading many nations in Latin America and elsewhere to resume repayment on defaulted international loans, died Feb. 20 in Greenwich, Conn., his widow, Florence Twiford Spang, said Friday.
        Mr. Spang was 83. The cause was cardiac arrest, Mrs. Spang said.
        Working from 1946 to 1958 with the Foreign Bondholders Protective Council, Mr. Spang played a leading role in persuading a long list of defaulting governments to restore their international credit standing by resuming payments on hundreds of millions of dollars worth of outstanding foreign debt.
        The countries with which he sucessfully negotiated such debt repayment agreements included West Germany, Austria, Greece, Japan, Czechoslovakia, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica and Ecuador.
        Born in Berea, Ohio, on Nov. 2, 1911, Mr. Spang attended Culver Military Academy in Indiana before graduating Phi Beta Kappa from Dartmouth College. He earned a master's degree in economics from Columbia in 1936 and spent the following year at Cambridge University in Britain, where he studied under John Maynard Keynes.
        During World War II, Mr. Spang taught at Columbia and Yale Universities and also served as a government economist.
        Beginning in 1946, he worked for the bondholders council, a nonprofit organization set up in the 1930's to represent investors left stranded by foreign government bond defaults. He rose to executive vice president and secretary and, in 1957, became president.
        From 1958 to 1976, Mr. Spang served as a vice president of First National City Bank, now known as Citibank, where he headed the Department for International Business Development and Washington Agency Relations.
        He served on numerous business and government advisory organizations, including the African-American Chamber of Commerce, the Arab-American Association for Commerce and Industry and the U.S. Business and Advisory Committee to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. He was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
        A longtime resident of Greenwich, Mr. Spang also maintained a home in Naples, Fla.
        He is also survived by three children, two stepchildren, four grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      