
        W. R. Timken, former chairman of the Timken Company of Canton, Ohio, died on Jan. 26 at Aultman Hospital in Canton, where he lived. He was 84.
        The cause was heart failure, a company spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Timken helped build a family business into a multinational manufacturer of alloy steel and tapered roller bearings, which are used in rear-wheel drive cars to reduce friction between the wheels and their base. Timken's most recently reported yearly sales were more than $1.7 billion, and the company has 17,000 employees.
        Until his death he oversaw activities of the Timken Foundation of Canton, which supports philanthropic causes. He worked with his father, H. H. Timken, to set up the foundation in the 1930's, and since then it has contributed $152 million to charitable organizations.
        He graduated from Harvard University in 1933 and studied at the Harvard School of Business before returning to Canton in 1935. At the time, the company had annual sales of $31 million.
        The family started the company in 1889. Mr. Timken and his brother, Henry Jr., were in their early 30's when their father, a founder, died in 1940 and left them in charge.
        W. R. Timken became president in 1960 and chairman in 1968 when his brother died. He retired as chairman in 1975 and from the board in 1987 after 51 years with the company.
        During that time, Timken expanded around the world, establishing plants in Australia, Britain, France and South Africa. It also acquired the Latrobe Steel Company in Pennsylvania.
        Besides the family foundation, the company financed the Timken Company Charitable Trust, which supports higher education and community funds.
        Mr. Timken was an avid yachtsman, and participated for many years in sailing races on the Great Lakes and in the Atlantic and the Caribbean. He was a longtime trustee of the South Street Seaport Museum in New York.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary, to whom he had been married for 59 years; 2 sons, W. R. Jr., Timken's current chairman, and W. J., and a daughter, Edith, all of Canton, 10 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      