
        Henry Kraus, the first editor of the United Automobile Workers' national newspaper, a labor historian, an authority on European art and a recipient of a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, died on Friday in Paris, where he had lived since 1956. He was 89.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Dorothy.
        Mr. Kraus's seventh and most recent book, "Heroes of Unwritten Story," a personal history of the U.A.W. from 1934 to 1939, was published last year by the University of Illinois Press.
        Acclaimed as a chronicler of the American labor movement, Mr. Kraus was also celebrated for his studies of medieval art, which led to such books, sometimes written with his wife, as "The Living Theater of Medieval Art," "Hidden World of Misericords," "Gothic Stalls of Spain" and "Gold Was the Mortar: The Economics of Cathedral Building."
        In 1984, Mr. Kraus received a five-year MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, often described as a genius grant, which helped him return to Michigan to conduct research for "Heroes of Unwritten Story" at the labor archives at Wayne State University in Detroit.
        Born in Knoxville, Tenn., as a son of immigrants who were active trade unionists, he grew up in Cleveland in a socialist atmosphere. He attended the University of Chicago and Western Reserve University in Cleveland, where he received a master's degree in 1928.
        For a time he taught high school mathematics, but in 1930 he began his career in labor journalism, offering his services to publicize the fledging union of auto workers preparing to strike the White Auto Company. His efforts led to the founding of the United Auto Worker, a newspaper circulated among locals in several states, and, later, to his appointment as editor of the U.A.W.'s official publication, the United Automobile Worker.
        His involvement with the union led to his study of the Flint, Mich., sit-down strike of 1936-37, "The Many and the Few," which was first published in 1947.
        In the mid-1950's, the Krauses moved to Paris, where Mr. Kraus worked as a European correspondent for World Wide Medical News Service. There they renewed their studies of medieval art, particularly of the misericords, carvings on the backs of pews and seats that depicted the daily lives of the craftsmen who created so much of the religious art of Europe's cathedrals and churches.
        He is survived by his wife.
      