
        Lee Nordness, an art dealer in New York who organized the international traveling exhibitions of American art and crafts for Johnson Wax, died last Tuesday at a nursing home in Newcastle, Wash. He was 72 and had until recently lived in Belfair, Wash., west of Seattle.
        The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his brother, Lloyd.
        A native of Olympia, Wash., Orvin Leroy Nordness attended schools there and studied at the University of Washington and at Stanford University. He received a bachelor's degree at Uppsala University in Sweden.
        In 1958, he founded the Nordness Gallery on Madison Avenue in Manhattan, where he specialized in the works of contemporary American painters and sculptors. That year he also organized "Art: U.S.A.: 58," an exhibition of contemporary art at Madison Square Garden that included the works of many unknown painters and sculptors. He repeated the event a year later at the New York Coliseum as "Art: USA: 59," inviting prominent artists to select the works of lesser-known painters and sculptors.
        At the 1959 show, Mr. Nordness, who had been collecting American crafts since the mid-1950's, combined his private interest in crafts with art. He asked Paul J. Smith, a crafts expert who later became the director of the Museum of Contemporary Crafts, now the American Craft Museum, to select the works of 30 craftsmen for the show. The selection included furniture by Sam Maloof, weaving by Lenore Tawney and ceramics by Peter Voulkos.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Nordness began adding craftsmen to his stable of artists, and he enlarged this aspect of his gallery when he moved from Madison Avenue to East 75th Street in the 1970's. In addition to Mr. Maloof, Mr. Voulkos and Ms. Tawney, he represented the glassmakers Harvey Littleton and Dale Chihuly, the ceramists Tochiko Takezu and Jack Earl and the furniture maker Wendell Castle.
        In the mid-60's, Mr. Nordness gave a lecture on contemporary American painting at the Johnson Foundation in Racine, Wis. After the lecture, he suggested to Herbert Fiske Johnson, the chairman of S. C. Johnson & Son (commonly known as Johnson Wax), and his wife, Irene Purcell Johnson, who were collectors of American art, that the company form a collection in that area. The result, the Johnson Collection, included 102 paintings ranging from de Kooning to Wyeth. As "Art: U.S.A.: Now," the collection toured the United States, Europe and Japan in the late 60's. All but two of the paintings were eventually donated to the National Museum of American Art of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
        Mr. Nordness was then asked by the Johnson Company to select 300 examples of crafts for "Objects: U.S.A.," which toured the United States and Europe from 1969 to 1973. About half the works from this collection were donated in the 1970's to the American Craft Museum.
        After Mr. Nordness closed his New York gallery in the mid-1980's, he continued as a private dealer in Manhattan until 1987, when he moved back to Washington.
        He is survived by his brother.
      