
        The Rev. Clement J. McNaspy, a Jesuit author, historian, musicologist and linguist, died on Friday at Ignatius House, a Jesuit nursing home in New Orleans. He was 79.
        The cause was a stroke, according to Loyola University in New Orleans, where he was professor emeritus of religious studies.
        Father McNaspy, an authority on liturgy, served as associate editor of America, the Jesuit national weekly, from 1960 to 1970. Fluent in several languages, he contributed to scores of periodicals in English, French, Dutch and Spanish, among others.
        Among his 29 books were "A Guide to the Enjoyment of Music" (America Press, 1962), "A Guide to Christian Europe" (Hawthorn, 1963), "Our Changing Liturgy" (Hawthorn, 1966) and "Conquistador Without Sword: The Life of Roque Gonzalez, S. J." (Loyola University Chicago Press, 1984).
        A book he wrote in 1982, "The Lost Cities of Paraguay" (Loyola), was about the civilization and art of the Guarani Indians and their expulsion from Jesuit missions in Paraguay in the 17th century. Father McNaspy served as consultant for the 1984 movie "The Mission," which was loosely based on his book.
        He was the co-founder in 1969 of the Jesuit Institute of the Arts in Italy, which brought together Jesuit artists from many countries. Leaving their clerical collars at home, they gathered at a villa in the Frascati hills near Rome to share ideas and their diverse arts.
        Born in Lafayette, La., Father McNaspy graduated from St. Louis University. He also earned a doctorate in music at Montreal University and did postdoctoral work in music and fine arts at Oxford University. He entered the Society of Jesus in 1931 and was ordained in 1944.
        He joined the faculty in New Orleans in 1948 as an assistant professor of classics and fine arts, served as dean of music in the late 1950's and retired in 1980. For the next seven years he served as a missionary in Paraguay.
        He returned to Loyola, and continued to write and teach courses in music appreciation and classics for a time.
        Father McNaspy is survived by a sister, Mary Agnes Kennington of St. Louis.
      