
        Igor Tamm, a biomedical scientist and educator who earned renown for his pioneering studies of the composition of viruses and how they replicate in the cells they invade, died on Monday at his home in Watch Hill, R.I. He was 72.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Olive.
        Dr. Tamm, the Abby Rockefeller Mauze Professor Emeritus at Rockefeller University, spent much of his career studying the inhibition of virus multiplication by chemical means.
        Among his accomplishments were the discovery of the Tamm-Horsfall urinary glycoprotein, which acts as an inhibitor of virus multiplication, the discovery that the multiplication of DNA viruses also involves RNA and the discovery of double-stranded RNA as genetic material in the ubiquitous human virus, the reovirus, and in the wound tumor virus of plants. He also studied the mechanisms that regulate production of interferons, the small proteins produced by virus-infected cells to fight virus replication.
        In 1967, he was the first American to receive the Alfred Benzon Prize, awarded by the Alfred Benzon Foundation of Copenhagen "in recognition of his outstanding research on the replication of viruses." In 1975, he was honored by the New York Academy of Sciences with its Sarah L. Poiley Memorial Award.
        Dr. Tamm was a member of many scientific committees, commissions and study panels, including the National Academy of Sciences. He contributed more than 250 research articles and reviewed and edited many others for generalized and specialized scientific publications. Students from his laboratory became prominent in biomedical research throughout the United States and Europe.
        Born on April 27, 1922, in Tapa, Estonia, he studied at the Tartu University Medical Faculty in 1942 and 1943 and at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm in 1944-45. He received a medical degree cum laude from Yale University in 1947.
        He became associated with Rockefeller University in 1949, when it was known as the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. He began as an assistant of the institute and an assistant physician of Rockefeller Hospital. He became an associate and associate physician in 1953, an associate professor in 1956, physician in 1958, and professor and senior physician in 1964. He was named Abby Rockefeller Mauze Professor in 1986.
        In addition to his wife, of Watch Hill, Dr. Tamm is survived by two daughters, Carol McKee of Wynnewood, Pa., and Ellen Oak of Kansas City, Mo.; a son, Eric, of Berkeley, Calif., and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 9, 1995, Thursday / February 10, 1995, Friday
        A photograph yesterday with an obituary of Igor Tamm, a biomedical scientist who died on Monday, was published in error. The picture showed Igor Y. Tamm, a Soviet academician, who died in 1971.
        The obituary on Wednesday of Igor Tamm, a biomedical scientist who died on Monday, misstated the cause of his death. It was chronic lung disease.
      