
        John E. Sawyer, a former president of Williams College and the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, died yesterday at his home in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 77.
        The cause was cancer, said his son John.
        As president of Williams from 1961 to 1973, Mr. Sawyer led the college's elimination of fraternities, transition to co-education, recruitment of African-American students and development of a winter-study period.
        He also oversaw the development of the college's Center for Environmental Studies and Graduate Program in Art History, both of which were innovations at a liberal arts college.
        His boldest and most disputed action at Williams was guiding the process that led to the disbanding of the college's system of fraternities in 1962. He and others, including many students, had come to believe that fraternities no longer supported the college's educational objectives.
        After meeting initial opposition on campus and among some alumni, his actions were credited with having subsequently stimulated alumni support, and with easing the college's transition to co-education and a more racially integrated student body.
        In his 12 years as president of the Mellon Foundation, the philanthropy made grants of half a billion dollars and expanded its annual giving to $69.8 million in 1987 from $39.8 million in 1975.
        Mr. Sawyer took a particular interest while at the Mellon Foundation in conservation and ecology. He also began a program in interdisciplinary studies. In memory of that interest, earlier this year the foundation started the John Sawyer Seminars in the Comparative Study of Cultures, a series of interdisciplinary seminars at leading universities on major social issues.
        Born in Worcester, Mass., Mr. Sawyer graduated from Williams in 1939 and earned a master's degree at Harvard University in 1941. After the war, he taught economics at Harvard, Yale and Williams.
        He was awarded the National Academy of Science's Public Welfare Medal in 1988, and the Phi Beta Kappa Award for Distinguished Service to the Humanities in 1990.
        In addition to his son John of Lexington, Mass., Mr. Sawyer is survived by his wife, Anne; two other sons, Stephen, of Lewiston, Me., and William, of Milburn, N.J.; a daughter, Katherine Stover of Newton, Mass., and nine grandchildren.
      