
        Willard Waterman, an actor who played roles in numerous radio, television, film and theater productions, died on Thursday at his home in Burlingame, Calif. He was 80.
        The cause was bone marrow disease, his family said.
        During the golden age of radio, Mr. Waterman starred in numerous live dramatic presentations, with leading roles on such popular series as "Guiding Light," "Amos 'n' Andy," "Lux Radio Theater," "The Real McCoys" and "Little Orphan Annie." On television, he was the star of "The Great Gildersleeve," which had begun on radio.
        He enjoyed a long career both in film and the theater. He played Mr. Upson opposite Rosalind Russell in the 1958 movie version of "Auntie Mame," and later recreated the role in the West Coast Theater production starring Eve Arden. He also appeared in both the original 1966 Broadway musical version of "Mame" and in a 1983 Broadway revival, both starring Angela Lansbury. He toured in the national companies of "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying" and "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum," and he had a leading role in George Abbott's 1973 Broadway revival of "The Pajama Game."
        Among his film credits are "Riding High," with Bing Crosby; "The Lie," with Barbara Stanwyck; "Three Coins in the Fountain"; "The Apartment," and "It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World."
        Mr. Waterman was born in Madison, Wis. He studied electrical engineering at the University of Wisconsin, where he appeared in college theater and radio productions. He left school to pursue an acting career, and got his first break in Chicago, then a hub of live radio broadcasts. In 1937, he helped organize the American Federation of Radio Artists (now the American Federation of Radio and Television Artists), and he served on its national board until 1990. A resolution passed last week by the union's board paid tribute to his "distinguished career."
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Anna; two daughters, Lynne Ansara of Burlingame, and Susan, of Canoga Park, Calif.; three granddaughters, and a great-granddaughter.
        Correction:  March 1, 1995, Wednesday
        An obituary on Feb. 8 about the actor Willard Waterman misidentified the role he played in the 1958 film "Auntie Mame." He was Mr. Upson; the role of Mr. Babcock was played by Fred Clark.
      