
        Dro E. Proudian, who brought an aptitude for elegance and a taste for caviar  to his job as director of American operations for Petrossian, the French specialty foods company, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Hospital. He was 38 and lived in Manhattan..
        His companion, James Walden, said the cause of death was complications from AIDS.
        Until his illness forced his resignation in 1992, Mr. Proudian had spent five years educating American palates to the subtle Caspian distinctions between beluga and sevruga, primarily at Petrossian's plush flagship restaurant on Seventh Avenue and 58th Street.
        If prospective customers winced at caviar's champagne prices -- beluga was selling yesterday at $62 a French ounce (30 grams) -- Mr. Proudian's task was to remind them that there was more to Petrossian's than caviar, specifically Norwegian smoked salmon and foie gras.
        In addition to overseeing the restaurant, Mr. Proudian supervised the expansion of the company's American wholesale and retail operations, including the development of its boutiques, like the ones at Bloomingdale's and Nieman Marcus.
        A native of Beverly, Mass., who grew up in Westbrook, Me., Mr. Proudian was New England to his Armenian core. The grandson of Dro Kanayan, the president of  the first Armenian Republic in the 1920's, he was born in 1956, nine years after his family had completed a peripatetic exile by settling in the United States.
        After attending Loyola University in Montreal and the University of Southern  Maine in Portland, Mr. Proudian, who had become fascinated with the restaurant business during summers as a restaurant worker in Ogunquit, Me., opened an after-hours dance club there in 1978.
        He later served as an entertainment consultant to the 1980 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid, N.Y., then completed management training with the old Sheraton Royal Biscayne Hotel in Key Biscayne, Fla.
        As director of sales and marketing for the luxury Grand Bay Hotel in Coconut  Grove, Fla., from 1983 to 1987, Mr. Proudian, a stylish man whose flair for luxury made him a fixture on the European and South American society tennis circuit, caught the eye of Christian Petrossian, who brought him to New York to  manage the American operations of his family's Paris-based company.
        Mr. Proudian, whose position made him a widely quoted industry spokesman, never forgot his flinty New England roots.
        Anyone contemplating buying fish eggs at $1,000 a pound, he once said, was certainly entitled to a taste.
        In addition to Mr. Walden, he is survived by his parents, Paul and Olga Proudian of Watertown, Mass.; two brothers, John, of Nahant, Mass., and Paul, of Gray, Me., and a sister, Nina Hovsepian of Westford, Mass.
      