
        Donald Collier, a former curator at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago and a leading figure in the anthropology of North and South American Indians, died on Jan. 23 at Highland Hospital in Oakland, Calif. He was 83 and lived in Oakland.
        His family said he died of injuries from a fall.
        For more than half a century, Dr. Collier specialized in making anthropology come alive in museums and writings, particularly at the Field Museum, where he was curator of South and Central American archaeology and ethnology from 1941 to 1976 and chief curator of anthropology from 1964 to 1970.
        Dr. Collier taught at the University of Chicago from 1950 to 1970 and instilled a generation of anthropologists with strong ethical standards, which many museums throughout the world now apply. For example, he helped stop museums from acquiring illicitly recovered antiquities. He also helped organize and teach one of the earliest courses in training anthropologists how to create museum exhibits.
        He also had a strong interest in the concerns of American Indians, particularly the maintenance and display in museums of human remains and personal artifacts.
        In 1947, he was co-author of "Indians before Columbus," for many years a basic reference on archeology in North America.
        He organized numerous exhibitions, including "Indian Art of the Americas" at the Field Museum in 1959, and "Ancient Ecuador," which was shown in five cities from 1975 to 1977.
        Dr. Collier came from a family steeped in anthropology. His father, John Collier, was United States Commissioner of Indian Affairs in the Franklin D. Roosevelt Administration and a central figure in creating the subdiscipline of applied anthropology.
        Dr. Collier's late wife, Malcolm Carr Collier, was an anthropologist who studied the Navajo and was director of the anthropology curriculum study project of the American Anthropological Association. His brother, John Collier Jr., was a leading visual anthropologist and his brother-in-law, Rene d'Harnoncourt, was the first chairman of the Indian Arts and Crafts Board in the New Deal and for many years director of the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan.
        Dr. Collier was a founding trustee of the Council on Museum Anthropology, chairman of the Institute of Andean Research and president of the Central States Anthropological Society.
        He was born in Sparkill, N.Y., and graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1933. He received a Ph.D. in anthropology from the University of Chicago in 1954.
        He is survived by two sons, Bruce, of Lexington, Mass., and David, of Berkeley, and four grandchildren.
      