
        Dr. Eli Robins, a former chairman of the department of psychiatry at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, and a leader of the movement to apply traditional medical and scientific standards to psychiatric research and treatment, died on Dec. 21 at Barnes Hospital in St. Louis. He was 73 and lived in Clayton, Mo.
        The cause was complications from his 35-year battle with multiple sclerosis, a university spokesman said.
        Dr. Robins was chairman of psychiatry from 1963 to 1975 and played a central role in challenging the predominant Freudian approach to psychiatric beliefs of the 1940's, when many psychiatric leaders believed that objective scientific and medical measurement could not be applied to mental illness.
        In approaching mental illness as he would any other physical illness or disease, Dr. Robins helped introduce biomedical models in psychiatry based on rigorous scientific research, hard diagnostic and epidemiological criteria, and neuroscientific studies.
        Ultimately, he and his psychiatric collaborators had a major influence on the direction of psychiatric research, both in this country and abroad, helping transform psychiatry into a discipline governed by many of the same research strategies that apply to the rest of medicine.
        He was the author of more than 175 articles in peer-reviewed publications that covered a wide variety of research areas, including suicide, brain histology, hysteria, homosexuality and the neurochemistry of depression.
        In 1972, he was a co-author of a paper on diagnostic criteria for psychiatric research that served as a basis for the American Psychiatric Association's first Diagnostic and Statistical Manual. It remains the most frequently cited article in its field.
        His honors include the Gold Medal of the Society of Biological Psychiatry, the Paul Hoch Award of the American Psychiatric Association, the Achievement Award of the Academy of Clinical Psychiatrists and the Distinguished Service Award of the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill.
        Born in 1921 in Houston to an immigrant family from Russia, he graduated from Rice Institute at 19 and from the Harvard Medical School in 1943. He became a professor of psychiatry in 1958.
        He is survived by his wife, Lee N. Robins, a professor of social science at Washington University; four sons, Paul, of Menlo Park, Calif., James, of Cambridge, Mass., Thomas, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Nicholas, of San Francisco, and six grandchildren.
      