
        Jordan S. Lasher, a chemical engineer whose childhood hobby of doing crossword puzzles led him to become an innovator in designing puzzles that emphasize creative themes and word play, died on Jan. 31 in his home in Novato, Calif. He was 48.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said his mother, Madeline Lasher of the Bronx.
        Mr. Lasher graduated from City College of the City University of New York in 1967, and worked for Gulf Oil in Pittsburgh before moving to the San Francisco area in 1985, where he was an executive with the Chevron Corporation.
        He began working puzzles at the age of 10, while riding the New York City subways with his father. In college his first effort at serious puzzling was returned by Margaret Farrar, then the puzzle editor for The New York Times, with several suggestions. Some time later he revised the rejected offering and sent it to Ms. Farrar's successor, Will Weng, who accepted it.
        His puzzles also began to appear in paperback books and calendars, and he became known for the variety of his puzzles.
        In "Lack of Composure," his punning entries were based on composers' names: "gift for a composer" was a "Bach scratcher," and "a composer's cache" was a "Haydn place." In "Riddle, Riddle," the answer to the clue, "What's worse than raining cats and dogs?" was "hailing taxis," and "the Grand Canyon" was a "hole of fame."
        In 1978, a Cleveland bookstore hired Mr. Lasher to create the "world's hardest puzzle" in a contest in which the participants were kept inside the bookstore for 24 hours and given access to its reference materials. Of the 186 contestants, the winner completed less than 90 percent of the puzzle correctly.
        He was a frequent contributor of The Times's daily and Sunday puzzles, and was the co-author, with Norton Bramesco, of "Crossword Puzzle Compendium."
        Besides his mother, Mr. Lasher is survived by his wife, Susan, a daughter, Deborah, and a son, Gregory, all of Novato, and a sister, Cynthia Walters of Rockaway, N.J.
      