
        Charles Elmer Martin, an artist whose work was seen in galleries and museums, in national magazines and in books, died on Sunday at the Seaside nursing home in Portland, Me. He was 85 and lived in Queens until several years ago when he moved to Portland.
        For many years Mr. Martin, who was self-taught, worked as a painter, illustrator and designer. He contributed hundreds of cartoons and covers to The New Yorker, signing his work CEM.
        He was born in Chelsea, Mass., and began his career as a set designer for the Little Theater in Boston in 1929. After moving to New York City in 1932, he worked in the Works Progress Administration's Federal art project as a teacher and then supervisor until 1938 when The New Yorker began to publish his sketches. In those years he was also a political cartoonist at the newspaper PM.
        In World War II, he worked for the Office of War Information in North Africa, Italy and France. He headed a mobile leaflet unit as art director, poster designer and political cartoonist for publications air-dropped behind enemy lines.
        Over the years his drawings appeared in Time and Life magazines, Harper's, The Saturday Evening Post, The Saturday Review, Punch and Esquire as well as The New Yorker. His work was exhibited at various galleries and at the Brooklyn Museum. He is represented in the permanent collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Museum of the City of New York, Library of Congress and at Syracuse University.
        He illustrated children's books for Bradbury Press, Random House and Greenwillow. He himself wrote "Island Winter" (Greenwillow, 1984), a children's book, which he also illustrated.
        He is survived by his wife, Florence Taylor Martin; a son, Jared, of Los Angeles; three brothers, Joseph, of Washington, John, of Melrose, Mass., and Elmer, of Brockton, Mass.; three sisters, Rita Weitz of Hingham, Mass., and Louise Sanford and Betty Mahoney of West Palm Beach, Fla., and one grandson.
      