
        Nat Holman, one of the greatest basketball players of the 1920's and then one of the nation's most respected coaches during a 41-year career at City College, died yesterday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale, Bronx. He was 98.
        He died of natural causes, said his nephew, Tom Holman.
        In 1950, his C.C.N.Y. team won both the National Collegiate Athletic Association and the National Invitation Tournament championships, a feat that can no longer be duplicated because the tournaments are held at the same time.
        An avid student, master teacher and classic innovator of the game, Mr. Holman was known for much of his life as "Mr. Basketball."
        As a player, he used guile and finesse to improvise individual moves that became the foundation of the type of basketball played in New York. He also used that street-smart style in his coaching. His City College teams, though often without great individual talent, were well- drilled and fundamentally sound. Mr. Holman was the professor, the players were his students. He would move them around the floor as if they were chess pieces, until they were exactly where he wanted them to be.
        In the early 1940's, Rhode Island State (now Rhode Island University) brought the fast-break style into Madison Square Garden, where C.C.N.Y. played most of its games in those days, and Mr. Holman soon adopted the tactic. His well-patterned, quick-moving offense became known as "New York style" basketball.
        But his coaching career was not without pain.
        A year after they won basketball's "Grand Slam" several of his talented players were arrested for point-shaving -- trying to win a game by fewer points than the margin predicted by bookmakers. It was the biggest scandal in college basketball history.
        Mr. Holman was suspended by the New York City Board of Higher Education in 1951 for "conduct unbecoming to a teacher." Contending he had known nothing of his players' deceit, he rejected the option of an early pension and fought for vindication and won. He was reinstated at C.C.N.Y. two years later, but the school had de-emphasized its basketball program. It has never returned to Division I status.
        "I went back," Mr. Holman once recalled, "because I had no feeling of guilt, no feeling of wrongdoing."
        Mr. Holman retired from coaching at C.C.N.Y in 1960 with a record of 421-190 during a 37-year span. He often worked with youngsters who would have had trouble making junior varsity teams of comparable schools. "I had 16 or 17 captains who never played in high school," he said.
        After his retirement, Mr. Holman remained deeply involved in basketball as a good-will ambassador, traveling the world and espousing the ideas he first put down in 1921 when he wrote "Scientific Basketball." The book became a textbook for coaches everywhere, even after the game changed.
        He was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame in 1964.
        On Nov. 29, 1977, C.C.N.Y. honored its link with Mr. Holman when the school renamed Mahoney Gymnasium in his honor. "I'd rather be on the foul line than making speeches," Mr. Holman told an audience of 1,500 that night.
        Nathaniel Holman, who was born on Oct. 16, 1896, began his basketball career on the Lower East Side of New York. His teachers were players in the streets and schoolyards, where he learned the strategies and rhythms of an early brand of playground basketball.
        "They knew how to move the ball and move the body," Mr. Holman once explained. "These men played in small gymnasiums where you had to move fast. You couldn't stand around. Everything was free, voluntary movement."
        After starring in basketball, soccer and football at the High School of Commerce, he graduated from the Savage School for Physical Education and received a master's degree from New York University.
        At the age of 21, he turned to pro basketball, joining a team in Germantown, Pa. At the same time, he began his career at C.C.N.Y., as the junior varsity basketball coach and the varsity soccer coach. Two years later, he was named head basketball coach.
        "I was one of the few men who was able to play pro basketball and coach a college team at the same time, but it was rough," Mr. Holman said. "If my college played in Detroit, for instance, I would make a 6 o'clock train, and get ready to play a pro game the next night."
        After a short stay with the Whirlwinds, who together with the Original Celtics were the outstanding teams of the time, Mr. Holman left at the end of the 1921 season to join the Celtics, the famous barnstorming team that helped legitimize professional basketball. He stayed with the Celtics through 1927. The Celtics, who would play more than 100 games a year and rarely lose, billed Mr. Holman as "the world's greatest basketball player."
        "If teams beat the Celtics in those days it would make the season for them," Mr. Holman said.
        And most of them tried -- in a physical as well as an artistic sense.
        "It was brutal," Mr. Holman said of basketball in the 1920's. "The game they play today is tame compared to it. You had to be quick on your feet and fast with your fists."
        He is survived by his brother, Sandow Holman of Harrison, N.Y., and many nephews and nieces.
      