
        Millard E. Gladfelter, a former teacher in a one-room Pennsylvania schoolhouse who ended his educational career as president of Temple University in Philadelphia, died on Sunday at his home in Rydal Park, Pa. He was 95.
        Dr. Gladfelter served as Temple's fourth president, from 1959 to 1967. In that time he helped transform Temple into one of Pennsylvania's four state universities, joining Penn State, Pittsburgh State and Lincoln University.
        In return for state subsidies, the universities pledged to lower the cost of tuition and to expand enrollment. As a result, Temple underwent a period of rapid growth in the late 1960's that included the creation of four new schools and colleges as well as a campus in Rome.
        Dr. Gladfelter arrived at Temple in 1930, serving as director of the university's high school. He became registrar a year later, vice president in 1941, provost in 1946 and president 13 years later.
        Although Dr. Gladfelter had a patrician mien, he was an unpretentious educator. He was widely know on campus as "Gladdy," and he would often pepper his conversation with folksy stories from the Pennsylvania Dutch. He also was a self-taught artist who painted landscapes as a hobby.
        He was born on a 42-acre family farm near York, Pa., and attended the same one-room school where he would eventually teach. He graduated from Gettysburg College in 1925 and received a doctorate from the University of Pennsylvania in 1945.
        In 1964 he received Austria's Grand Gold Cross of Merit, that nation's highest award to a foreign citizen, for his support of closer academic ties between Austria and the United States.
        Dr. Gladfelter served on the Pennsylvania Commission of Higher Education and the Philadelphia Commission on Higher Education. He also was a member of the executive board of the United Lutheran Church of America.
        He is survived by his wife, Martha; two sons, Phillip, of Seattle, and Bruce, of Wilmette, Ill.; a sister, Ida Gladfelter of York, and two grandchildren.
      