
        Emilio Gabriel Collado, an economist and oil company executive who helped design the international post-World War II monetary system and served as America's first executive director of the World Bank, died at the Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla., on Feb. 9. A resident of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., since 1993, he was 84.
        Mr. Collado died of heart failure, said his wife, Maria.
        Mr. Collado, who was widely known as Pete, was born in Cranford, N.J., and lived most of his life in the New York area.
        In 1934, Mr. Collado (pronounced coe-YAH-doe) joined the Treasury Department as an economist specializing in international monetary issues, after graduating from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University, where he had earned a doctorate in economics. From 1936 to 1938 he worked at the New York branch of the Federal Reserve Bank, where he headed the Latin American and Far Eastern sections.
        In 1938, he moved to the State Department and went on to hold several senior economic positions during World War II.
        Most notably, he was a member of the American negotiating team at the Bretton Woods conference in 1944 at Bretton Woods, N.H. There, the United States and Britain effectively designed the postwar international monetary system, creating the International Monetary Fund to oversee a system of fixed but adjustable exchange rates between currencies and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as the World Bank is officially called, to finance reconstruction after the Allies' victory.
        The previous year, he took part in the international conference at Hot Springs, Va., which set up the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization.
        In 1946, President Harry S. Truman nominated Mr. Collado to be the first American director of the World Bank, representing the United States on the bank's executive board.
        In 1947, he joined the Exxon Corporation, rising to executive vice president and a director of the company at the time of his retirement in 1975.
        Last October, President Clinton wrote to him to mark the 50th anniversary of the Bretton Woods agreement, saying the agreement he had helped frame had produced "five decades of international cooperation and the greatest economic growth in the history of the world."
        He was also a trustee of the Hispanic Society in New York, a former director of J. P. Morgan & Company and a former chairman and director of the Americas Society of New York.
        His first wife, Janet Gilbert, died in 1972. Besides his second wife, Maria, he is survived by a son, Emilio Gabriel, of Vienna, Va.; a daughter, Lisa Collado Ford of New York City; a stepson, Pedro M. Lopez-Tanco of Orlando, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      