
        Tommy Valando, a music publisher and backer of Broadway musicals who also became a major figure in horse racing, died on Tuesday at St. Mary's Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 72 and had homes in Palm Beach and Greenwich, Conn.
        His wife, Elizabeth, said the cause was complications of pneumonia. He was admitted to the hospital two weeks ago.
        Mr. Valando started in the music business as a song promoter 50 years ago. When he began to publish popular music, he became the partner of a young singer named Perry Como. Later, he published music for singers like Frank Sinatra and for composers like Stephen Sondheim. He achieved his greatest success with the Tommy Valando Publishing Group, as the publisher and backer of Broadway musicals.
        The musicals included "Fiddler on the Roof," "Cabaret," "Godspell," "Sweeney Todd," "Zorba," "A Little Night Music," "Sunday in the Park With George," "Little Mary Sunshine," "The Rothschilds," "Mr. Wonderful," "Fiorello!" and Baby." He was also an investor in such hits as "Jerome Robbins's Broadway," Stephen Sondheim's "Into the Woods," Neil Simon's "Lost in Yonkers" and the Off Broadway production of "And the World Goes Round."
        Mr. Valando's interests took a new turn in the 1980's when he was drawn into buying shares in race horses. He bought his first race horse outright at the Keeneland sales in Lexington, Ky., in July 1989. He paid $80,000 for a yearling that his wife named Fly So Free, and the horse promptly won the Breeders' Cup Juvenile and the Eclipse Award as the 2-year-old champion. Fly So Free raced for four years, with earnings of $2.5 million, then retired as a stallion to Three Chimneys Farm in Kentucky.
        For the rest of Mr. Valando's life, horses were his passion. Valando horses in their light-blue-and-white silks became familiar figures in winner's circles from Gulfstream Park in Florida in the winter to Belmont Park in New York and Saratoga, N.Y., in the summer.
        Mr. Valando was also a partner in the Metromedia complex with John Kluge and was a philanthropist whose charities were Stop Cancer, Young Playwrights Festival, the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma and the Veterans Bedside Network.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Patricia Valando Meech of Weston, Conn., and a brother, Arthur.
      