
        James Lawrence Jr., an architect who designed a number of public structures in the Boston area and was a leading preservationist of the city's natural beauty and historical landmarks, died on Jan. 29 at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 87.
        In a period that spanned 60 years, Mr. Lawrence helped lead the fight to protect Back Bay's stately elm trees on Commonwealth Avenue from threatened high-rise construction and he advocated legislation to require city utility lines to be buried.
        He also helped forge a compromise that allowed the financially troubled Boston Athenaeum to keep its famous portraits of George and Martha Washington in Boston by having them shared for alternating three-year periods by the National Portrait Gallery in Washington and the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston.
        As an architect, he played a key role in designing the Mary Ellen McCormack public-housing development in South Boston, which is widely regarded as the city's most impressive housing project.
        He also designed the Gothic-style greenhouses at the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, as well as the museum's cafe, shop and library.
        For over 30 years, he served as a member of the New England committee of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund; he received the organization's Thurgood Marshall Award in the 1970's.
        Mr. Lawrence was born in Milton, Mass. He graduated from Harvard University in 1929, and in 1935, he received a master's degree in architecture from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. During World War II, he served as a major in the Army Air Forces.
        He was a fellow of the American Institute of Architects, and in 1976 he was named a Benjamin Franklin Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
        Mr. Lawrence's first wife, Martina, died in 1959.
        He is survived by his wife, Frances; three sons and a daughter from his first marriage, James, of Baltimore, Edward, of Brookline, Robert, of San Francisco, and Martina Lee Albright of Brookline; three stepchildren, Roger Hallowell Jr., Beatrice Hallowell Edgar and Christian Hollowell; a sister, Dorothy Mckenzie Stephens, of Sarasota, Fla.; a brother, John, of Hamilton, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      