
        Meyer Michael Greenberg, known to the poor and homeless of New York City for a simple act of charity he performed for 30 years on its meanest street, died on Monday at Rivington House, a Manhattan nursing home. He was 67 and had lived much of his life in Greenwich Village.
        The cause was cancer, said a cousin, Russell Aaronson of Manhattan.
        In the life that obituaries customarily record, Mr. Greenberg worked for many years as a print coordinator on the Revlon account in the media department of Grey Advertising, and later at Bates Advertising, until retiring in 1990. Earlier, he taught English in the public school system.
        But Mr. Greenberg's renown rested not on what he accomplished between Monday and Friday, but on what he shared between Thanksgiving and Christmas, when autumn surrendered to winter, and winter intensified the misery of those who had no shelter.
        It was at that time that Mr. Greenberg, a small, jaunty man, could be found on Skid Row, the Bowery, giving away pairs of gloves from a canvas bag slung over his shoulder, in an annual ritual that memorialized his father and redressed a sense of loss attached to his own hard youth in Brooklyn.
        "Who was that guy?" a man on crutches asked one year.
        "Gloves," came the reply. "That was Gloves."
        He was Gloves Greenberg, and when one man asked what the gloves cost, Mr. Greenberg had a ready reply. "A handshake," he said.
        Mr. Greenberg knew he could give away his hundreds of pairs of gloves in a few hours if he went to missions, but he said: "I prefer to go looking for the people I want. The ones who avoid eye contact. It is not so much the gloves, but telling people they count."
        Sometimes, it took him 15 minutes to persuade someone to accept the gloves. "These are not my gloves," an old man said once. "I cannot take them. No one has ever given me anything. What do you want from me?"
        Finally, the man accepted the gloves.
        "Happy Thanksgiving," Mr. Greenberg said.
        At first, Mr. Greenberg had purchased all his gloves. Later, after his mission became well-known following the theft of a batch of gloves, Mr. Greenberg also began receiving many gloves, sometimes singles, in the mail.
        In 1993, his cousin said, Mr. Greenberg became too ill to continue to go to the Bowery.
        Born in Williamsburg, Mr. Greenberg was the eldest of five children of Pinchus Joseph Greenberg, who sold baked goods in a market at Lee Avenue and Wilson Street. As a boy, Mr. Greenberg rose before 5 A.M. to help his father wheel the merchandise in a pushcart to the market.
        Through his life, after his schooling at a yeshiva and at Brooklyn College, Mr. Greenberg carried with him the memory of those cold mornings.
        "One winter, when I was 11 or 12, I lost my gloves," he said. "I felt very guilty about it; don't ask me why. I never even asked for another pair. I don't think I ever had another pair until I went into the Army.
        "Ever since then, for me, being rich is being warm."
        When his father died in 1963, Mr. Greenberg decided to honor his memory by giving away gloves. He remembered something his father had told him: "Don't deprive yourself of the joy of giving."
        Mr. Aaronson said he intended to carry on Mr. Greenberg's charity.
        Mr. Greenberg is survived by two brothers, Bernard, of Jerusalem and Martin, of Brooklyn, and two sisters, Toby Loewy of Belmore, L.I., and Barbara Handler of East Northport, L.I.
      