
        Brig. Gen. James H. Howard, the only fighter pilot to win the Medal of Honor in aerial combat over Europe in World War II, died on Saturday at the Veterans Administration Medical Center at Bay Pines, Fla. He was 81 and lived in Belleair Bluffs, Fla.
        He had suffered a long illness, his family said.
        General Howard earned the nation's highest military honor in January 1944, when he became separated from his fighter squadron of P-51 Mustangs. Finding himself alone, he flew to the defense of B-17 bomber formations after a raid over central Germany.
        For more than 30 minutes he fought off some 30 German fighters attacking the Flying Fortresses. He was credited with shooting down at least four German craft before being forced to return to base in England.
        He dismissed the matter with a simple response, "I seen my duty and I done it."
        His parents were missionaries in in Canton, and he spent his first 14 years in China. He studied at Pomona College in California but left in 1937 to go to the Navy's flying school in Pensacola, Fla.
        He became a flier with the American volunteer group, the Flying Tigers, who helped to defend China against the Japanese. Its pilots were chosen by Col. Claire L. Chennault.
        In 13 months of action over Burma and China, beginning in December 1941, he flew 56 missions and was credited with shooting down six Japanese planes. When the Flying Tigers disbanded, he returned to the United States and was sworn into the Army Air Forces in 1943.
        The Mustang P-51 was new then, and he took command of a squadron assigned to protect bomber groups during raids over Europe. At the end of the war, he was in charge of Pinellas Army Air Field in Florida.
        After leaving the military, he operated a systems-engineering company in Washington. He retired in 1977.
        General Howard is survived by a stepdaughter, Nancy Smith of Gainesville, Fla, and two sisters, Martha Johnson of Cambridge, Mass., and Margaret Steele of Hightstown, N.J.
      