
        Matthew Guinan, an Irish-born trolley car operator who was a pioneer and president of the Transport Workers Union of America, died on Wednesday in Lauder Hill, Fla. He was 84.
        Mr. Guinan died after a brief illness, relatives said. He had lived in the Bronx for many years.
        It was characteristic of Mr. Guinan (pronounced GUY-nin), a soft-spoken man widely known as Matty, that he was overshadowed by the flamboyant Michael J. Quill, who was the union president in 1966, when a strike by the New York local crippled the city's transit system and dogged the first 12 days of the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay.
        Mr. Guinan, executive vice president and secretary-treasurer of the T.W.U. during the strike, was Mr. Quill's trusted aide. To some union people who knew both men well, Mr. Guinan was the "figures man," who filled in the details of contract proposals after Mr. Quill had indulged his verbal broad brush.
        Despite, or perhaps because of, the differences in their temperament and leadership styles, the two were close friends. Indeed, Mr. Quill engineered a revision of the T.W.U.'s constitution in 1961 so that his second-in-command would automatically assume the top position after the president's death.
        That happened only days after the transit strike ended, when Mr. Quill died suddenly and Mr. Guinan took his place. He led the T.W.U., which at its peak had some 150,000 members, until his retirement in 1979.
        While he lacked his predecessor's fiery rhetoric, Mr. Guinan was no pushover. His management counterparts across the negotiating tables regarded him as a tough, well-informed bargainer who punctuated his long pauses with terse, unambiguous words.
        Mr. Guinan could stir passions. At a rally before a tough round of contract talks with the city in the early 1970's, he brought the rank-and-file to their feet amid thunderous cheers.
        "There is no question about the justice of our demands," he shouted into the microphone. "They're damned lucky they have the dedicated type of worker they have."
        Warming to his subject, Mr. Guinan went on: "There's only a few loafers, a very, very small percentage of the force. The fellow that loafs on the job is not a union man -- and I'm sure that a lot of these fellows are plants by the management to create that kind of situation."
        More than once, Mr. Guinan showed his skill in the thrust-and-parry of municipal labor negotiations. During a tough round of talks in the spring of 1978, Mr. Guinan disdained reports of progress as the figments of naive journalists.
        An accord was reached barely an hour before a strike would have begun, and while Mayor Edward I. Koch said he was pleased at the terms, it was also true that the city did not gain the major changes in work rules that it had originally demanded.
        Asked what he regarded as his biggest accomplishment in the union, Mr. Guinan once said: "One day you're on cloud nine and sometimes you're down at the bottom of the barrel. It's the ups that keep you going -- getting a better life for your men."
        One of his biggest victories came in 1953, when he was president of Local 100, the New York transit union. After a bitter, 29-day strike he secured a five-day, 40-hour workweek for 8,000 drivers of private bus lines.
        Mr. Guinan was born in Geashill, County Offaly, Ireland. He came to the United States in 1929 and, while he retained a lifelong fondness for Irish songs, he lost all traces of the brogue of his homeland.
        He became active in union affairs almost from the day he became a trolley driver in 1933, for the Kingsbridge Division of the old Third Avenue Railroad Corporation. He organized the company's employees and in 1937 led them into the fledgling national union.
        Mr. Guinan was a full-time organizer for the T.W.U. in the 1940's. In 1949, he was elected president of Local 100, the T.W.U.'s largest unit by far, and he held that position until 1961, when he stepped down to work entirely at the national level.
        Mr. Guinan is survived by his wife, Margaret, whom he married in 1935; three daughters, Sister Margaret Theresa, Sister Eileen Guinan and Maureen Guinan, and two sisters, Margaret Carney and Maureen Benfield.
      