
        Menelaos Dimitri Hassialis, a professor of mining at Columbia University who was a consultant to the Manhattan Project, died on March 16 at his home in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 85.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        Professor Hassialis, the Henry Krumb Professor Emeritus of Mining at Columbia, retired in 1978 after 41 years on the faculty. Born in Manhattan, he was a physics and chemistry graduate of Columbia College with a master's degree in physics from the university.
        He conducted mining research at Columbia before joining the faculty of its School of Mining in 1937. He was named to the Krumb chair in 1959.
        From 1943 to 1945, Professor Hassialis advised the scientists of the Manhattan Project, the secret development of the atomic bomb, on the process of refining uranium-molybdenum alloys. In the 1950's, he led a federally financed effort at Columbia's engineering center called the Atomic Energy Project for the Recovery of Uranium.
        He directed 125 scientists and supporting research staff in developing economical ways to retrieve small amounts of uranium oxide from mined ores. The eight-year project produced two acceptable solutions to what leading atomic scientists then regarded as one of the most pressing problems in the field of nuclear energy.
        Professor Hassialis was a United States delegate to the Geneva Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy in the mid-1950's. In the 1970's he worked on the recovery of petroleum from oil shale.
        Among his many honors was Columbia's Great Teacher Award in 1958, and in 1985 he was made a Knight of Malta. He was a board member of several corporations, and many foreign governments consulted him in the fields of ore dressing, petroleum engineering and surface chemistry.
        Professor Hassialis is survived by a daughter, John Bucher of Ridgewood; a son, Peter J., of Victoria, Tex.; three sisters, Helen Condares and Alice Hassialis of Manhattan, and Pauline Scople of Woodside, Queens, and four grandchildren.
      