
        Dr. James S. Coleman, the renowned University of Chicago sociologist whose controversial studies laid much of the groundwork for and against the use of busing to desegregate schools in the 1960's and 1970's, and later helped shape American education policies by comparing public and private schools, died on Saturday at the University of Chicago Hospital. He was 68.
        Dr. Coleman died of prostate cancer, said William Harms, a spokesman for the University of Chicago, where Dr. Coleman had spent much of his career as a teacher, researcher and author. Since 1973, he had been University Professor of Sociology.
        In an academic and public life that spanned four decades, Dr. Coleman wrote 30 books and hundreds of articles, developed important theories on social change and collective action and widely influenced the course of education in America. But he was also drawn into many heated professional and political controversies.
        In a 1966 report to Congress based on an extensive study of the performance of students in public schools, Dr. Coleman concluded that disadvantaged black children learned better in integrated classes, and his findings became a manual for political and court actions and were widely used to support busing to achieve racial balance in public schools.
        In some cities, anger over busing and other desegregation efforts led to violent clashes among proponents and opponents and disputes over the policy continued for years, with much credit or blame ascribed to Dr. Coleman. Lost in the controversy were many caveats he had posed, including that black children could learn better only when mixed with a majority of middle-class children.
        In 1975, Dr. Coleman apparently reversed himself, finding in another study that busing had been a failure because, he said, it had prompted a massive departure of whites from public schools, and he concluded that this "white flight" had undermined the aim of increasing contact among the races in public schools.
        The second study generated enormous uproars among government policy makers, civil rights leaders, experts in education, sociologists and parents. Critics disputed his data, saying that white flight had begun long before busing, and attacked his motives, saying he had abandoned his commitment to desegregation.
        But supporters contended that many of the critics were themselves motivated by racial politics, not educational facts, that Dr. Coleman had simply reported his scientific findings and that he had demonstrated courage in changing his mind when the new data dictated that he do so.
        "Exceptional ability, fertile imagination and the courage to go against received opinion and to bear sometimes vicious attacks marked his distinguished career," Gary Becker, a professor of economics and sociology at the University of Chicago, said yesterday.
        Dr. Becker recalled that some prominent members of the American Sociological Association moved to have Dr. Coleman expelled for his 1975 work. "It was not a fashionable or pleasant scientific finding," he said. "Fortunately for the integrity of the association, the move to expel him failed." Dr. Coleman was elected president of the association in 1991.
        In 1981, another study by Dr. Coleman concluded that private and Catholic schools provided a better education than public schools. When another uproar ensued, he drew back from his findings, saying that the data were flawed and that his report did not emphasize the most significant issues. He said the new study did not prove any inherent superiority of private schools, only that they were more likely to stress things like discipline, homework and high standards. Dr. Coleman's study, "The High School and Beyond," is said to be the largest American survey ever conducted on the effects of schooling. It is a continuing research project that examines the lives and careers of 75,000 people who were sophomores and seniors in high schools in 1980.
        In his 1990 book, "Foundations of Social Theory," which he considered his most important work in sociology, Dr. Coleman examined the formation and behavior of communities -- "natural" ones, like towns, based on geography and the decisions of ordinary people to live in them, versus "artificial" communities, like corporations or trade unions, in which people are grouped around objectives.
        The book explores the use of rational choice by individuals -- long the basis for studies in economics -- as the basis for reviewing the way institutions are run and communities are structured, and shows how individual choices are affected by social norms, peer pressure and other factors.
        James Samuel Coleman was born in Bedford, Ind., on May 12, 1926, and grew up there and in Louisville, Ky. He received a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering in 1949 from Purdue University, but switched fields in graduate school and earned a doctorate in sociology from Columbia University in 1955.
        He joined the faculty of the University of Chicago in 1956 and taught there until 1959, when he joined the faculty of Johns Hopkins University to found its Department of Social Relations. He was a professor and department chairman at Johns Hopkins until 1973, when he returned to the University of Chicago.
        Dr. Coleman is survived by his wife, Zdzislawa Walaszek; four sons, Thomas, of Greenwich, Conn., John, of Madison, Wis., Stephen, of Baltimore, Md., and Daniel, of Chicago, and a granddaughter.
        Correction:  April 8, 1995, Saturday
        An obituary on March 28 about Dr. James S. Coleman, a University of Chicago sociologist, referred imprecisely to his survivors. He had three sons from his first marriage, to Lucille Richey Coleman -- Thomas, of Greenwich, Conn.; John, of Madison, Wis., and Stephen, of Baltimore -- and a fourth son, Daniel, of Chicago, from his marriage to Zdzislawa Walaszek.
      