
        Eric Wright, who as the rapper Eazy-E helped turn gangster rap into a commercial bonanza, died on Sunday night at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 31 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was complications from AIDS, said his doctor, Dr. William Young.
        As a founding member of the rap group N.W.A. (which stands for Niggaz Wit' Attitude), Eazy-E was the executive producer of the definitive gangster rap album, "Straight Outta Compton," released in 1988. The album's raps about gunplay, drug dealing, raw sex, gang solidarity and police harassment in a Los Angeles suburb included one song that is a fantasy of violent revenge against racist police officers.
        The song became notorious after the Federal Bureau of Investigation wrote to N.W.A.'s label, Ruthless Records, protesting that it could incite violence against law enforcement personnel. The album sold more than two million copies, and its subject matter established the pattern for virtually all the gangster rap to follow.
        Mr. Wright was born in Compton, in South-Central Los Angeles, and regularly told interviewers that N.W.A.'s tales of gang violence and drug dealing were in part autobiographical. He dropped out of school in the 10th grade, although he later received a high school equivalency diploma. In the mid-1980's, he made his first recordings in the garage of his parents' home. The Source, a hip-hop magazine, reported that he financed Ruthless Records with profits from drug dealing, and the company became a leading independent label.
        Eazy-E was not N.W.A.'s main songwriter, although his high, nasal voice was a distinctive part of the group's round-robin raps. N.W.A.'s follow-up EP in 1990, "100 Miles and Runnin'," sold 500,000 copies. The group's second album, "Efil4zaggin," sold a million copies, and in 1991 it became the first gangster rap album to reach No. 1 on the Billboard charts. Eazy-E's 1988 solo album, "Eazy Duz It," sold 2.5 million copies.
        N.W.A. broke up after business disputes among the rappers in the group, who also included Ice Cube, Dr. Dre, M. C. Ren and D. J. Yella. In a video clip, Dr. Dre presented an Eazy-E lookalike as the pawn of his manager; Ice Cube released a rap insulting him. In 1992, Ruthless Records sued Dr. Dre's new label, Death Row Records, accusing it of racketeering; the suit was dismissed in 1993.
        But Eazy-E continued a successful solo career. His "5150 Home 4 tha Sick," a 1992 EP, sold 500,000 copies, and "It's On (Dr. Dre) 187um Killa," an EP released in 1993, has sold more than 1.5 million copies. Mr. Wright was also the executive producer for other releases on the Ruthless label, including recordings by Above the Law and Blood of Abraham and the recent hit EP by the group Bone Thugs 'n' Harmony.
        Until last month, Mr. Wright was the disk jockey for a Saturday-night hip-hop show on the Los Angeles radio station KKBT. "He didn't live the life style that his music may have indicated," said Craig Wilbraham, the station's vice president and general manager. "There was a softer side of him that people weren't aware of." Mr. Wilbraham said Mr. Wright had performed noontime concerts at schools, urging children to stay in school, and had spoken at juvenile penitentiaries in association with KKBT.
        Eazy-E drew criticism from fellow rappers when he spoke in support of Timothy Briseno, one of the police officers who beat Rodney King, and when he paid $1,500 to attend a fund-raising luncheon for the Republican Inner Circle, at which President George Bush spoke. In 1993, Mr. Wright was ordered to pay child support of $58,000 a year for a girl he fathered in Nebraska.
        Mr. Wright was hospitalized on Feb. 24 for what he thought was asthma. Tests revealed that he had AIDS, and on March 16 he released a statement that he had contracted the disease. In the statement, he also said he had fathered seven children with six different women. While hospitalized, he married Tomika Wood, with whom he had a son, Dominick. Both have tested negative for H.I.V., according to Mr. Wright's statement.
        In addition to his wife and children, he is survived by his parents, Kathie and Richard Wright; a brother, Kenneth, and a sister, Patricia, all of Los Angeles.
      