
        Irving Shulman, a novelist and screenwriter known as a chronicler of gritty urban life, died on March 23 at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 81.
        The cause was not disclosed by his wife, Julia.
        Mr. Shulman's first and most popular novel, in 1947, was "The Amboy Dukes," about juvenile street gangs in a Brooklyn slum. The book was turned into the 1949 film "City Across the River," with Tony Curtis playing one of the gang members. In his novel, Mr. Shulman wrote: "The ugly gray and red tenements, tombstones of disease, unrest and the smoldering violence which has its birth in misery, were crowded close together and rose straight up on both sides of the street to shut off all but a narrow expanse of sky. It was as if nothing bright would ever shine on Amboy Street."
        Mr. Shulman also wrote the original treatment for "Rebel Without a Cause," the film that shot James Dean to stardom. The screenplay was by Stewart Stern, based on work by both Mr. Shulman and the film's director, Nicholas Ray. Mr. Shulman's treatment was the basis of his novel "Children of the Dark," published in 1956.
        He was born in Brooklyn, and his firsthand knowledge of his native borough would later launch his career. After graduating from Ohio University and Columbia University, he worked for various Government agencies in Washington while writing "The Amboy Dukes. The book sold five million copies in the 1940's and 50's, establishing the reputations of both the novelist and, in a negative way, Amboy Street in Brooklyn.
        Hired as a contract writer by Warner Brothers, Mr. Shulman moved to Los Angeles, where he shifted between fiction and screenwriting. Together with "The Amboy Dukes," his next novels, "Cry Tough" (1949) and "The Big Brokers" (1951), formed a trilogy about delinquency and adult crime.
        Later, Mr. Shulman expanded his perspective. His novels included "The Square Trap" (1953), about a Mexican boxer in California fighting his way up from poverty; "Good Deeds Must Be Punished" (1956), dealing with an Italian-American war veteran at a West Virginia college, and "The Velvet Knife" (1959), about Hollywood.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Joan Alexander and Leslie Bratspis; a brother, Saul, and four grandchildren.
      