
        Dr. James G. Horsfall, a plant pathologist whose discovery of organic fungicides changed the way the world's farmers combat blight and other fungus diseases, died on March 22 at his home in Hamden, Conn., not far from the Connecticut Agricultural Experiment Station's Lockwood Farm, where he did much of his research. He was 90 years old.
        Until Dr. Horsfall's research, initially at the Cornell experimental farm in Geneva, N.Y., and later at the Connecticut station in New Haven, the chief weapon against fungi had been sprays laced with copper, lead and other heavy metals.
        Since the publication of his major work, "Fungicides and Their Actions," in 1945, the sprays have been based on organic compounds, which have proved cheaper, more effective and environmentally safer.
        His daughter, Margaret Schadler, said yesterday that protecting the environment was the farthest thing from her father's mind when he began his research. He had simply become intrigued, she said, by the possibility that the sulfa drugs developed in the 1930's to combat human diseases could have implications for plant diseases.
        Part of the stimulus, his daughter recalled, was her own childhood ear infection, which was eventually cured by a sulfa drug.
        Dr. Horsfall discovered several organic fungicides, among them a group known as ethylene bis dithiocarbamates, which, together with their refined successors are still widely used.
        In one vivid instance, his work has a visible legacy. During certain seasons, Mrs. Schadler noted, the vineyards of Europe have a distinctive blue cast, the result of a spray, known as Dithane, based on her father's work.
        Dr. Horsfall, who joined the Connecticut station in 1939 and served as its director from 1948 to 1971, made such an impression on the nation's scientific community that he became one of the few agriculturists to be elected to the National Academy of Sciences. He was a perennial member of state and national science commissions.
        A native of Mountain Grove, Mo., Dr. Horsfall grew up in Monticello, Ark., where his father, himself an agricultural scientist, helped found what is now a branch of the University of Arkansas. After graduation from the University of Arkansas in 1925, he obtained a doctorate in plant pathology from Cornell in 1929.
        In addition to Mrs. Schadler, he is survived by another daughter, Anne Thomas of Bethlehem, Pa., a brother, William, of Champaign, Ill., six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      