
        John Michael Dunn, a veteran of three wars who rose to become a major general and a military aide to two Vice Presidents, died on Friday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 69.
        The cause was complications from pulmonary fibrosis, said his son Alan.
        At the time of his death, General Dunn was president of the Can Manufacturers Institute, a national trade association, a position he had held since 1976.
        He was on the staff of Vice President Spiro T. Agnew in the second term of President Richard M. Nixon. After Mr. Agnew's resignation in the fall of 1973, General Dunn stayed on to serve his successor, Gerald R. Ford.
        He began his stint on the Vice-Presidential staff as a military assistant and rose to become an assistant in charge of foreign and economic affairs and finally chief of staff. He handled relations with the National Security Council, the Office of Management and Budget, the Council of Economic Advisers and the Office of Science and Technology.
        He stayed on the Vice-Presidential staff until early 1974, when he retired from the military and became the principal assistant Secretary of Commerce for domestic and international business. Later that year, he became executive director of the Council on International Economic Policy, a Presidential advisory group. He was also a liaison between the White House and Congress on economic affairs.
        Born in Los Angeles and reared in Natick, Mass., he needed his mother's permission to enlist in the Army at age 17. After serving in World War II, he entered Harvard University, graduating in 1949. He returned to the Army as an officer and fought in the Korean War.
        During his career, he received the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, Silver and Bronze Stars, the Purple Heart with two oak-leaf clusters and the Commendation Medal with oak-leaf cluster, among others.
        From 1963 until 1965, he was personal assistant to Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge in South Vietnam and executive secretary at the American Embassy in Saigon, now Ho Chi Minh City.
        He earned master's degrees in public affairs and international affairs and a doctorate in political science, all from Princeton University. He was also a graduate of the Command and General Staff College and the National War College.
        Besides his son Alan, of Alexandria, Va., he is survived by his wife of 44 years, Mary Frances Hobbs Dunn; another son, Neal, of Panama City, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      