
        Nicholas Pennell, who was for many years a versatile actor with the Stratford Festival in Canada, died on Feb. 22 at the Stratford General Hospital. He was 56, and lived in Brunner, Ontario, just outside of Stratford.
        The cause was cancer, the festival said.
        A stalwart member of the Stratford acting company for 23 consecutive seasons, Mr. Pennell played a variety of roles every summer, appearing in more than 75 plays, including the title roles in "King John," "Macbeth," "Richard II," "Hamlet" and "Pericles." He also played Orlando in "As You Like It" and Berowne in "Love's Labour's Lost," and, in a classical change of pace, Gayev in "The Cherry Orchard" and John Worthing in "The Importance of Being Earnest." In 1980 he played Leonard Woolf opposite Maggie Smith as Virginia Woolf in the world premiere of Edna O'Brien's "Virginia."
        In the 1992 season, he starred in Elliott Hayes's adaptation of Robertson Davies's novel "World of Wonders." Reflecting on Mr. Pennell's career, Mr. Davies wrote that he "was a foremost contributor to the distinction of the Stratford Festival," and added that "in roles calling for imaginative scope, such as Oberon and Ariel, he moved like a chieftain on his native soil, and in Shakespearean plays of the mythic, Magian world his certainty of touch was unerring."
        With characteristic diversity, Mr. Pennell was scheduled to appear this year at Stratford as Duncan in "Macbeth," as Sir Jaspar Fidget in "The Country Wife" and as Emperor Joseph II in "Amadeus." When he was unable to attend the beginning of rehearsals on Feb. 20 because of his illness, he sent a message to the company expressing his regrets for missing what would have been his 24th season and reaffirmed his belief in the redemptive power of theater.
        Mr. Pennell was born in Brixham, Devon, in England and graduated from the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. In addition to his work at Stratford, he toured with a one-man show, "A Variable Passion," and appeared frequently on television, most notably as Michael Mont on "The Forsythe Saga."
        He is survived by a brother, who lives in England, and by three nephews.
      