
        Robert A. Kennard, a Los Angeles architect who turned his struggles as a young black apprentice into a lifelong campaign to ease the way for other minority members who are professionals, died on Friday at the University of Southern California Norris Cancer Center. He was 74 and lived in Los Angeles.
        His family said the cause of death was lymphoma.
        As a novice in a clubbish profession, Mr. Kennard once recalled that he sent out so many resumes, got invited to so many interviews and was rejected for so many jobs that he made a vow: "I decided I would never close my door to a student."
        When he was finally able to establish his own firm, the Kennard Design Group, in 1957, Mr. Kennard, whose company specializes in designing schools and other public buildings, did better than that. He not only welcomed black students, but he also recruited them, creating mentoring programs for schools in the Los Angeles area and forming Minority Architecture and Planning, a precursor of the National Organization of Minority Architects, to strengthen his efforts.
        Like many other black architects of his generation, Mr. Kennard was attracted by the success of Paul Williams, a black man who designed lavish homes for Hollywood's rich and famous from the 1920's to the 1940's. He died in 1980.
        And like many others, Mr. Kennard, who was born in Los Angeles and who received his architecture degree from the University of Southern California through the G.I. Bill in 1949, found that Mr. Williams had a unique talent and his accomplishments could not easily be duplicated in a segregated society.
        At his death Mr. Kennard was one of only 31 blacks among the 2,648 architects in the American Institute of Architects' college of fellows.
        Although his firm has never made significant inroads into the lucrative work for private clients, Mr. Kennard made the best of the many public contracts that came his way, among them Metro stations in Washington, a Federal Aviation Administration center in Hempstead, L.I., and California landmarks like the mamouth parking garages at the Los Angeles International Airport and the suburban Carson City Hall.
        He is survived by his wife, Helen; two daughters, Gail Madyun of Altadena, Calif., vice president of the Kennard Design Group, and Lydia Reeves of Pasadena, a real estate lawyer who is deputy general manager of the Los Angeles Department of Airports; a son, William, of Washington, general counsel of the Federal Communications Commission; three sisters, Anna Hunt Woods and Elizabeth King, both of Los Angeles, and Marguerite Taylor of Tacoma, Wash., and five grandchildren.
      