
        Harold M. Weintraub, a leading molecular biologist whose research advanced the understanding of cell development, died Tuesday in Seattle at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. He was 49 and lived in Seattle.
        The cause was complications from glioblastoma, a fast-growing brain tumor, said the center, where he was being treated for the disease.
        Dr. Weintraub had been a faculty member of the Hutchinson Center in the Basic Sciences Division since 1978. In 1990 he was also appointed an investigator for the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
        His discoveries in genetic research helped establish the experimental framework for determining how undeveloped, embryonic cells become specialized cell types.
        Dr. Weintraub gained international recognition for developing technology to demonstrate what activates a gene. He also contributed an experimental technique, now widely used by molecular biologists in research, using a type of RNA, antisense. The technique also provided practical approaches for biotechnology to shape therapeutic agents.
        More recently, Dr. Weintraub's laboratory team isolated the gene MyoD, which converts many differentiated cell types into muscle. The results showed how MyoD controls the growth and action of muscle cells.
        He was born in Newark, and received a bachelor's degree in biology from Harvard College and an M.D. and a Ph.D. in cell differentiation at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. From 1973 to 1977 he was on the faculty of Princeton University's department of biochemical sciences.
        Dr. Weintraub contributed significantly to the growth of the Hutchinson Center, which was founded in 1971 an independent affiliate of the University of Washington. His scientific work was furthered by the National Institutes of Health and, since 1990, by the Hughes Institute of Bethesda, Md. The institute supports researchers around the country; it has an annual research budget of $119 million.
        Dr. Weintraub was the author or co-author of more than 130 scientific articles, and was an editorial adviser to the journal Science and other publications. He received the 1982 Eli Lilly Award in biological chemistry, and an Outstanding Investigator Grant from the institutes of health in 1986.
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy; two sons, Adam and Joshua, both of Seattle, and a brother, Andrew, of Rhinebeck, N.Y.
      