
        Howard W. Hunter, the spiritual leader of the world's nearly nine million Mormons, died yesterday at his home in Salt Lake City, nine months after taking office, the shortest term ever served by a president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He was 87.
        A church spokesman said he died of natural causes.
        Mr. Hunter underwent heart surgery in 1986, was treated for pneumonia in 1990 and had a gall bladder operation two years ago. A nerve disorder made it difficult for him to walk unaided in recent years, and in January a church spokesman announced that he was suffering from prostate cancer, which had spread to his bones.
        His last public appearance was on Jan. 12, when he offered a dedication prayer for the church's new Bountiful Temple, 15 miles north of Salt Lake City. Four days later, he was hospitalized.
        Mr. Hunter was chosen president of the church in June 1994. He had been in line for the position as senior member of the church's governing body, the Quorum of Twelve Apostles. He was ordained in a ceremony in which Quorum members placed their hands on his head.
        In addition to being president, he was the Mormons' 14th "prophet, seer and revelator" in the succession that began with the founding of the church in 1830 by Joseph Smith Jr. in Fayette, N.Y. He was also the latest in a long line of elderly Mormon leaders. The oldest, Joseph F. Smith, was ordained in 1970 at the age of 93. The Mormons hold fast to a rule of seniority.
        Mr. Hunter's successor is expected to be Gordon B. Hinckley, his chief counselor, who is 84.
        His predecessor, Ezra Taft Benson, who was Secretary of Agriculture in the Eisenhower Administration, was in such poor health in his final years that he never spoke in public. Mr. Hunter was the first "living prophet" whom Mormons had heard speak in five years.
        He used the occasion to plead for greater tolerance within the church, saying, "I pray we might treat each other with more kindness, more courtesy, more humility and patience and forgiveness." He also urged a return to the fold of those Mormons who had been excommunicated for demanding the admission of women to the priesthood and greater intellectual freedom.
        Howard William Hunter was born on Nov. 14, 1907, to John William and Nellie Marie Hunter in Boise, Idaho.
        In his youth he was active in the Boy Scouts of America, an organization he served years later as assistant district commissioner for metropolitan Los Angeles. Musically gifted, he learned to play the saxophone, clarinet, violin and drums. As the leader of a dance band called the Croonaders, he played for five months in 1927 on a cruise ship calling at major Asian ports. He later played in a radio station band in Los Angeles.
        After briefly attending the University of Washington, he worked in a California bank and as a bank examiner in the 1930's. He earned a law degree from Southwestern University Law School in Los Angeles in 1939, studying nights while holding a full-time job. He then began a career as a corporate lawyer and was eventually named to the boards of 24 corporations.
        His rise in the church hierarchy started in 1940 in the newly created Mormon ward in El Sereno, Calif., where he served as bishop. Higher appointments followed in the Pasadena Stake, or district. He was also active in the church's welfare organization.
        He was called to full-time church service in 1959 when he was ordained an apostle -- one of 12 -- with the tasks of preaching the Mormon gospel, building up the church and advising the president. He was named acting head of the Quorum of Twelve in 1985 and its permanent head in 1988.
        His first wife, Clara May Jeffs, died in 1931, and a son, Howard W. Jr., died in infancy.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Inis Bernice Egan; two sons, John J., of Ojai, Calif., and Richard A., of San Jose, Calif., 18 grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren.
      