
        Lyman B. Kirkpatrick Jr., a former executive director of the Central Intelligence Agency and later a professor of political science, died Friday at his home in Middleburg, Va. He was 77.
        Mr. Kirkpatrick died from complications of pneumonia, his wife, Rita, said.
        He began his work with the intelligence services when he enlisted in the Army in 1942. He was commissioned a lieutenant and assigned to the Office of the Coordinator of Information, which evolved into the Office of Special Services, the predecessor to the C.I.A. In 1944, he was assigned as intelligence briefing officer to Gen. Omar N. Bradley, remaining on the general's staff until the end of World War II.
        Mr. Kirkpatrick joined the C.I.A. at its inception in 1947. He seemed to be moving toward a leadership role, when he was stricken with polio in 1953 and left paralyzed from the waist down.
        When he returned to the C.I.A. from his hospitalization, another intelligence officer, Richard Helms, had been appointed director of covert operations, a job that Mr. Kirkpatrick had been expected to assume. Mr. Helms became director of the C.I.A. in the 1960's.
        Mr. Kirkpatrick became the agency's inspector general and served in that post until 1961. He was then appointed executive director, which at that time was the third-ranking position. He left the agency in 1965 to teach political science at Brown University.
        As inspector general, he had the job of investigating some internal agency actions that were criticized years later, including the failed Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba in 1961.
        In 1953, for example, he investigated the death of Frank R. Olson, an Army biochemist who died while using L.S.D. in an agency experiment. Mr. Olson plunged to his death from the Hotel Statler in New York on Nov. 28, 1953. The C.I.A. hid the truth about his death and his involvement in the drug experiment from his family until 1975, when it was disclosed in news reports.
        Mr. Kirkpatrick never testified publicly about the Olson case, but he reportedly recommended that the agency employees who gave Mr. Olson the drug be disciplined. They were not.
        Mr. Kirkpatrick did testify at one point that he knew about illegal mail openings in the 1950's and that the director at the time, Allen Dulles, knew about them, too. He was said to have also testified that he went on the record within the agency as opposing a plan to assassinate the Congolese leader, Patrice Lumumba. The plan was never carried out but Mr. Lumumba was killed shortly afterward by insurgents.
        A native of Rochester, Mr. Kirkpatrick was graduated from Princeton University's School of International Affairs in 1938 before going to work for U.S. News and World Report.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two sons, Col. Lyman B. 3d, of Herndon, Va., and Paull T., of Tallahassee, Fla.; two daughters, Jeanne Pitner of Roanoke, Va., and Helen Knauss of Rome, Ga.; a sister, Helen Millbank of Williamsburg, Va., and five grandchildren.
      