
        Matt L. Urban, whose exploits on World War II battlefields earned him as many citations as the legendary war hero Audie Murphy, thereby tying him as the United States' most-decorated soldier, died on Saturday at Holland Community Hospital in Holland, Mich. He was 75 and lived in Holland.
        The cause was complications from a collapsed lung brought on by one of his seven war wounds, a spokesman for the family said.
        Called the Ghost by his German foes because he kept coming back to fight despite his wounds, Lieutenant Colonel Urban's record was capped with the Medal of Honor in 1980 after a long-lost recommendation for the nation's highest military honor was unearthed and acted upon by President Jimmy Carter.
        According to the Total Army Personnel Command in Alexandria, Va., both Mr. Murphy and Colonel Urban were awarded 29 medals.
        The Medal of Honor citation for Colonel Urban referred to 10 separate acts of bravery that spanned almost the entire Normandy campaign. Early in the fighting in northern France, he was wounded twice battling tanks with a bazooka. After shrapnel ripped his leg, he was shipped back to England to an Army hospital, but within six weeks he had made his way back to the front.
        Once there, he found his unit bogged down by German fire. He ran across open ground to an unmanned American tank, and with machine-gun bullets ricocheting around him, mounted the turret, climbed in and returned the enemy fire, routing the German position.
        Colonel Urban fought with the Ninth Division's 60th Regiment in North Africa, Sicily, France and finally Germany. His citations, besides the Medal of Honor, included the Bronze Star with two oak-leaf clusters, the Silver Star with one oak-leaf cluster, the Legion of Merit, the Croix de Guerre, the Presidential Unit Citation, the American Campaign Medal and the Purple Heart with six oak-leaf clusters.
        He is survived by his wife, Jennie; a daughter, Jennifer Helen Urban of Cambridge, Mass., and a brother, Dr. Stanley T. Urban of Buffalo.
      