
        Paul Horgan, a wide-ranging writer of novels, history and biography whose work earned him two Pulitzer Prizes, died yesterday at Middlesex County Hospital in Middletown, Conn., where he lived. He was 91.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said Donald Berke, his godson.
        A writer of remarkable breadth whose favorite subject was his native Southwest, Mr. Horgan won both a Pulitzer and a Bancroft Prize in 1955 for a two-volume historical epic, "Great River: The Rio Grande in American History." He won a second Pulitzer in 1975 for "Lamy of Santa Fe," a biography of Archbishop Juan Bautista Lamy, the anti-slavery, pro-Indian cleric who went to New Mexico after the United States took the territory from Mexico.
        Starting with his first novel, "The Fault of Angels," published in 1933, Mr. Horgan produced a book on the average of once every year and a half. Among his best-known and most popular novels were "A Distant Trumpet," a historical novel based on the Apache wars of the 1880's; "Whitewater," "The Thin Mountain Air," and "Mexico Bay," about a writer striving to write a history of the Mexican War.
        His historical works, based on many years of research and characterized by both a majestic tone and a richness of small detail, include "The Heroic Triad," termed "a brilliant study of the three cultures of the Southwest," by David McCullough, writing in The New York Times Book Review in 1989.
        "With the exception of Wallace Stegner, no living American has so distinguished himself in both fiction and history," Mr. McCullough said. "The difference is his luminous imagination."
        Still, despite much praise and commercial success, Mr. Horgan was commonly excluded from the lists of the foremost American writers of the century. Among the reasons given by critics who felt he belonged in the top rank were that his writing was too traditional and old-fashioned to compete with the likes of Faulkner or Hemingway; that he was seen primarily as a Catholic writer; that his writing, so concentrated on the Southwest, was too regional, and that he spread himself too thin over so many subjects and fields of interest.
        Paul George Vincent O'Shaughnessy Horgan was born in Buffalo, the second of three children in a comfortable, artistic Catholic family. When he was 12, his father, the vice president of a family printing business, contracted tuberculosis, and the family moved to New Mexico.
        Mr. Horgan went to high school in Albuquerque and then worked for a year on the local newspaper, writing music and drama reviews, before enrolling in the Eastman School of Music in Rochester in 1923 to study singing. He left the Eastman School after only a year, never going to college anyplace else, and worked as a theater designer in Rochester for three years. When he was 24, he returned to New Mexico to begin his career as a writer.
        In all, Mr. Horgan published 17 novels over 60 years, as well as four volumes of short stories, two children's books, five biographies and his books of history. Along the way, he taught at Yale, the University of Iowa and Wesleyan University, where he was the director of the Center of Advanced Studies. In addition to his two Pulitzer Prizes, he was awarded nearly 50 honorary degrees.
        During World War II, he was chief of the Army Information Branch of the War Department at the Pentagon, winning the Legion of Merit and rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Horgan remained a polymath, passionately interested in music and painting, conversant in several European languages, a voracious reader and a friend of many figures in the arts. His biography of the composer Igor Stravinsky, "Encounters With Stravinsky" (1972), was termed "an utterly irresistible book" that was "almost impossible to classify in terms of genre," by Simon Karlinsky, who reviewed it in The New York Times.
        "Combining features of autobiography, memoir, cultural history of the American Southwest, personal confession and musical criticism, the book is an exquisitely literate record of one man's obsession with the music and person of Igor Stravinsky," Mr. Karlinsky wrote.
        No immediate family members survive.
      