
        Russell Earl Marker, an organic chemist, co-founder of the billion-dollar Syntex Corporation and explorer of the basic chemistry underlying the commercial production of steroidal hormones and birth-control pills, died on Friday at the Phoebe Barker Health Center in Wernersville, Pa. A resident of State College, Pa., he was 92.
        The cause was complications from a broken hip, his family said.
        Professor Marker, who had a distinguished scientific career but never bothered to earn a doctorate, did his seminal work while on the faculty of Pennsylvania State University from 1934 to 1944, the year he helped to start Syntex in Mexico City. He later returned to Pennsylvania and was a well-known figure on the Penn State campus in recent years.
        His research on hormones like progesterone led to its commercial synthesis and production. A natural female hormone, it is used to treat menstrual disorders and difficulty in conception.
        An expert botanist and pharmacologist, he was convinced that the plant kingdom was the place to look for abundant, inexpensive raw materials for steroids. He spent years studying sapogenin, a white crystalline compound obtained by chemically degrading the saponin occurring in many plants.
        The chemical structure of these sapogenins resembled cholesterol, the building block of other steroids in the body. In 1939 his quest passed two milestones.
        He puzzled out the precise molecular structure of many sapogenins. And he devised a method called Marker degradation for converting and reshaping a sapogenin molecule into one identical in structure to progesterone. The technique was an important step toward the mass production of all steroidal hormones, including cortisone and the birth control pill.
        He searched the woodlands from Canada to Mexico and focused on a sapogenin called diosgenin, because it required the fewest conversion steps. Analyzing and experimenting with hundreds of specimens, he finally found his horn of plenty in the gnarled black tubers of a wild yam in eastern coastal Mexico.
        Back in his laboratory he converted the substance to pure progesterone in just four steps. He took this potential bonanza to two large American pharmaceutical companies, including Parke Davis & Company, which had underwritten some of his research. They deemed the venture too risky.
        Mr. Marker quit his teaching post and returned to Mexico with his modest savings. He collected nearly 10 tons of roots, which a local coffee merchant chopped and sun-dried for him. In a borrowed laboratory, he produced almost seven pounds of top-quality progesterone, then priced $36,000 a pound.
        In the Mexico City telephone book he found Laboratorios Hormona -- a promising name, he thought. The company dealt in a line of animal hormone extracts like insulin and adrenalin and was run by an American investor-physician, Emeric Somlo, and a German chemist, Frederick Lehmann.
        What Mr. Marker brought them, in two casually wrapped bundles, was an amount of progesterone that equaled roughly half of the world's annual production at the time. The two partners quickly agreed to take Mr. Marker on as a third to form a new fine-chemicals firm and produce human steroid hormones.
        The idea was to sell them to foreign pharmaceutical companies and to Hormona for its own line of products. The partners named the new company Syntex Inc., for synthesis and Mexico. Mr. Marker got a 40 percent stake in it for his expertise and four and one-half pounds of his progesterone.
        Syntex, founded in 1944, quickly prospered. Mr. Marker set it on the road to mass production of synthetic progesterone and then left after a year for other ventures. Syntex soon also synthesized testosterone, the principal male hormone. It is now based in Palo Alto, Calif.
        Russell Marker was born on a small farm near Hagerstown, Md. His father wanted him to be a farmer, but at 17 he enrolled at the University of Maryland, earning bachelor's and master's degrees in chemistry.
        He worked for the Ethyl Corporation, helping to develop the octane rating system for gasoline, and at the Rockefeller Institute on a procedure known as optical rotatory dispersion, used to study molecular structures. Then he accepted an appointment as professor of organic chemistry at Penn State.
        Mr. Marker's wife of 60 years, Mildred C. Marker, died in 1985. He is survived by two sons, Russell C., of Sinking Spring, Pa., and James K., of Ridgewood, N.J.; a sister, Alice Jensen of Hagerstown, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      