
        John Francis Gerry, the chief United States district judge in New Jersey for seven years and a former top official of the policy-making arm of the Federal bench, died on Friday at his home in Moorestown, N.J. He was 69.
        The cause was liver cancer, said his wife, Jean G. Gerry.
        Judge Gerry, who was born and raised in Mount Holly, N.J., stepped down as the state's chief judge last October, becoming a senior member of the system. In 1975, he was appointed to the bench by President Gerald R. Ford after serving for two years as a judge on the Camden County and State Superior Courts.
        He was described by friends and family as caring, compassionate, witty and dedicated to his profession.
        "Judge Gerry was our chief of chiefs," said Judge Anne E. Thompson of Federal District Court in Trenton, who succeeded Judge Gerry as chief judge. "He was a distinguished judge, a respected colleague and treasured friend. He was admired and loved by every single judge on this court."
        From January 1992 until he left the chief judgeship, he was also the chairman of the executive committee of the Judicial Conference of the United States. The conference, which administers the Federal courts, is headed by William H. Rehnquist, the Chief Justice of the United States.
        "All those of us who knew him and liked him -- and to know him was to like him -- will miss him greatly," Justice Rehnquist said in a statement issued on Friday.
        Among Judge Gerry's notable cases as a Federal judge was the racketeering trial of associates of a former New Jersey State Senator, David J. Friedland, who were charged with defrauding $20 million from the pension fund of Local 701 of North Brunswick Teamsters.
        In 1987, in an important religious freedom case, he ruled that security at Leesburg State Prison outweighed the interest of Muslim inmates housed nearby to enter the main prison for weekly services.
        He also presided over environmental cases, including those concerning two of the nation's Superfund pollution sites.
        Judge Gerry enlisted in World War II in 1944 while in his senior year in high school, and he served in the Pacific Theater as a noncommissioned officer in the United States Army Air Force from 1944 to 1946.
        He returned from the war, enrolled at Princeton University in 1946 and graduated magna cum laude in 1950. He attended Harvard Law School, from which he graduated magna cum laude in 1953.
        He was a partner for 17 years in the firm of Wallace, Douglass & Gerry in Camden, handling mostly civil and corporate law cases, until leaving in 1972 for the bench.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Patricia, Kathleen and Ellen, and four grandchildren.
      