
        Raghavan Narasimhan Iyer, a philosopher, author and professor emeritus of political science at the University of California at Santa Barbara, died on Tuesday at St. Francis Medical Center in Santa Barbara. He was 65 and lived in Santa Barbara.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, said his son, Pico Iyer.
        Dr. Iyer (pronounced EYE-er) was educated at Oxford University, and his work bridged the cultures of East and West, old and new. His writings and lectures could be spellbinding as he drew from sources from Plato to the Bhagavad-Gita, the Sanskrit poem and classic of Hinduism, from Agatha Christie to the pop songwriter Jackson Browne.
        He wrote and edited scores of articles, book chapters and books. His body of work included "The Moral and Political Thought of Mahatma Gandhi" (Oxford University Press, 1973), which reflected his knowledge of the histories, philosophies and literatures of diverse worlds and placed Gandhi in the context of Plato, Kant, Buddha and Jesus.
        Another notable book was "Parapolitics: Toward the City of Man" (Oxford, 1979). It gave his view on large-scale political theory with reflections on such themes as commitment and over-commitment, the relation of means to ends, the morality of revolution and the hazards of democracy in underdeveloped countries.
        He increasingly became involved in theosophy, a system of thought akin to mysticism that claims special insight into the nature of God and the world. He was a leading member of the Santa Barbara branch of the United Lodge of Theosophists.
        In 1976 he founded the Institute of World Culture in Santa Barbara, of which he was president until 1986. Its purpose is to explore the cultures of East and West and their interaction through history.
        Dr. Iyer was born in Madras, India, and studied at the University of Bombay, earning a master's in economics. He won a Rhodes Scholarship in 1950 and studied philosophy, politics and economics at Oxford, where he was elected president of the Oxford Union and received a doctorate in moral and political philosophy.
        In addition to his son, a travel writer who lives in Santa Barbara, Dr. Iyer is survived by his wife of 40 years, Nandini Mehta Iyer, a professor of religious studies at Santa Barbara.
      