
        Franciszek Gajowniczek, the Polish army sergeant whose life was spared when a Franciscan monk took his death sentence at Auschwitz 53 years ago, died on Monday in the Polish city of Brzeg. He was 94.
        Mr. Gajowniczek, one of several prisoners selected by the Nazis to die by starvation in a dungeon at Auschwitz called the "hunger bunker," survived because the Rev. Maksymilian Kolbe volunteered to take his place.
        When the punishment was imposed because another inmate had escaped, Mr. Gajowniczek, who was a farmer in civilian life, pleaded that he should be spared because he had a wife and children.
        On a visit to the United States last December, Mr. Gajowniczek told the story himself: "Father Kolbe told the commandant, 'I want to go instead of the man who was selected. He has a wife and family. I am alone. I am a Catholic priest.' " The priest also contended that he was "elderly," Mr. Gajowniczek said. Father Kolbe was then 47. Mr. Gajowniczek was 41. The commandant agreed to the switch.
        In the underground cell the priest sought to console the condemned men, leading them in prayers and hymns. After ten days, on Aug. 14, 1941, he and three others remained alive. Then a German doctor came and killed them with injections of carbolic acid.
        Father Kolbe was beatified in 1971 and in 1982, Pope John Paul II proclaimed Father Kolbe a saint of the Roman Catholic Church.
        When the church decided to canonize Father Kolbe, the specter of anti-Semitism in his past arose. He was the creator of a major religious publishing concern, and excerpts from its publications indicated open disapproval of what he considered an excessive presence of Jews in Polish economic life. He also spoke out against Freemasons and Communists, movements he also associated with Jews.
        The church defended the friar, who was imprisoned in a roundup of Polish intellectuals, as reflecting some bias that was characteristic of the country and the times.
        Mr. Gajowniczek spent five years, five months and nine days in Auschwitz. He never got to see his sons again. They were killed in 1945 during a Soviet bombardment. His first wife, Helena, died in 1977.
        Mr. Gajowniczek attended the canonization ceremony in St. Peter's Square and spent much of his life after World War II bearing witness to the sacrifice made for him by Father Kolbe. He traveled across Europe and the United States, giving talks about the priest and helping dedicate new churches in his name.
        "He felt guilty," said the Rev. Thaddeus Horbowy, who translated for Mr. Gajowniczek during his visit to the St. Maximilian Kolbe Catholic Church in Houston last year. "He was blamed for this at the camp. He shouted out that he had a wife and children and the inmates became brutal and mean to him. They lost a priest and confidant."
        His widow, Janina Gajowniczek, told The Associated Press that her husband "had a deep sense of Kolbe's presence and had a feeling Kolbe will know when to take him.
        "Now," she added, "he has gone to Kolbe."
      