
        J. Roland Pennock, a political scientist who made his mark in legal and political theory, died on Feb. 19 at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 89 and lived in Haverstraw, Pa.
        The cause was an acute infection, his family said.
        Dr. Pennock was Richter Professor Emeritus of Political Science at Swarthmore College, his alma mater, where he taught from 1929 until his retirement in 1976. He served as chairman of the department of political science for 39 years and was a visiting professor at Harvard and Columbia Universities, the University of Minnesota and the University of California at San Diego.
        He was a past president of the American Society for Political and Legal Theory and a principal editor of its annual Nomos series, published by New York University Press. Titles remaining in print include "Religion, Morality and the Law" (1988), "Authority Revisited" (1987), "Criminal Justice" (1985), "Property" (1980), "Anarchism" (1978), and "Due Process" (1977).
        Among Professor Pennock's own books was "Democratic Political Theory" (Princeton University Press, 1979), a textbook in the field of democratic theory. He also wrote "Self-Government in Modernizing Nations" (Prentice-Hall, 1965) and "Administration and the Rule of Law" (Farrar & Rinehart, 1941).
        He was a past vice president of the American Political Science Association and served two terms on the editorial board of the American Political Science Review.
        James Roland Pennock was born in Chatham, Pa. He attended the London School of Economics in the mid-1920's and, after graduating from Swarthmore in 1927, earned master's and Ph.D. degrees at Harvard. As a Swarthmore student he was one of the first to take highest honors in the college's newly created Honors Program.
        Professor Pennock is survived by his wife of 64 years, Helen Sharpless Pennock; two daughters, Joan P. Barnard and Judith C. P. Lilley, six grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      