
        Rabbi Louis J. Bernstein, president of the 1,000-member Rabbinical Council of America and a major spokesman for modern Orthodox Jewry for three decades, died on Sunday at his home in Bayside, Queens. He was 67.
        The cause was brain cancer, according to family members.
        Rabbi Bernstein was serving his third term as president of the Orthodox rabbinical group, the only person to be elected to the post that many times. He had been president from 1972 to 1974 and 1984 to 1986.
        Rabbi Bernstein also held educational and synagogue positions within Orthodox institutions for more than 40 years. He was rabbi of the Young Israel of Windsor Park, Queens, since 1953, and a professor of Jewish studies at Yeshiva University since 1954.
        He also reached out to the non-Orthodox, although, he maintained, without diluting or compromising the Orthodox principle that Jewish law is not subject to change by the norms of modern society.
        In his second term as president of the council, for example, Rabbi Bernstein was caught up in a controversy when he accepted an invitation to speak at a hotel in Miami Beach before a convention of the Rabbinical Assembly, the main group of Conservative rabbis. Many right-wing Orthodox leaders criticized the appearance, saying it signaled an endorsement of Conservative innovations like the ordination of women as rabbis.
        Rabbi Bernstein proceeded with the speech, explaining that he was not there to endorse but to warn the Conservatives against further changes in Jewish law like those adopted by more liberal Reform groups.
        He added that he would not be pressured into silence by the right wing within Orthodoxy. "For us," he said, "the only guidelines must be what is right, and not what the right says."
        Rabbi Bernstein was also active in Zionist causes and supported Orthodoxy in Israel. He was president of the Religious Zionists of America, a member of the executive committee of the World Zionist Organization and a member of the Board of Governors of the Jewish Agency.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Pearl Moshel; four children, Sara Peretz of Jerusalem, David, of Manhattan, Sima Kern of Teaneck, N.J., and Avi, of Bayside, and five grandchildren.
      