
        Roger Grimsby, whose commanding delivery and acerbic wit as the anchor of "Eyewitness News" at WABC-TV in New York helped redefine local television news, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 66.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Bill Beutel, his former newscast partner at WABC.
        For 16 years, beginning in 1970, when he was teamed with Mr. Beutel, Mr. Grimsby became the center of an innovative style of presenting the news that came to be labeled "happy talk," though the anchors regarded that description as derisive and, Mr. Beutel said yesterday, never liked it.
        "There really was very little of the interchange you see all over the newscasts today," Mr. Beutel said. "We never said things like, 'I like your suit.' I think we practiced good journalism, but we never took ourselves too seriously."
        The pair dominated local news in New York City for about a decade, and their success led to imitations all over the country.
        What was most memorable about Mr. Grimsby, Mr. Beutel said, was his "moral character" and the strength of his personality. "He had a particular chemistry with the camera," Mr. Beutel said.
        He was, Mr. Beutel added, "a hot television personality in the way Marshall McLuhan talked about being hot and cold on television." In other words, Mr. Grimsby always came on strong.
        He was especially renowned for the humor he brought to the newscast, with off-hand remarks about the news events and his occasionally cutting commentary. After a series of scandals in Newark in the early 1970's, Mr. Grimsby introduced a news report by saying, "If Diogenes were to visit Newark these days, he'd put out his lamp."
        Introducing Howard Cosell for a sports report one night, Mr. Grimsby said, "And now let's go to the president of the Howard Cosell Fan Club."
        More than once, however, Mr. Grimsby's quips were judged either injudicious or downright offensive, especially by women. The New York chapter of the National Organization for Women filed a petition with the Federal Communications Commission in 1972 charging sexism at WABC-TV and citing, among other things, "snide comments" by Mr. Grimsby about women. The example: Mr. Grimsby's introduction to a report on the first national Women's Rights Day, in which he said simply, "And now for another item of trivia."
        More seriously, in 1976 the WABC-TV newscast's weatherman, Tex Antoine, was suspended for using the line, "If rape is inevitable, relax and enjoy it," after a report about an attempted rape of an 8-year-old girl. Five days later, Mr. Grimsby introduced Mr. Antoine's replacement by saying, "Lie back, relax and enjoy the weather with Storm Field."
        Mr. Grimsby was an orphan who was reared by a Lutheran minister in Duluth, Minn. He served in the Korean War, and was recently a vocal advocate for the Korean War Memorial.
        He came to New York in 1968 from KGO-TV in San Francisco. He won six local Emmy Awards at WABC-TV before he left that station in 1986 to join WNBC-TV. After two years at WNBC, he spent two years doing news in San Diego for a cable-television station before going into semi-retirement. When he left WABC, his salary was reported to be close to $1 million a year.
        In one of his last interviews, given to Jackie Wolf of the West Side Beat, a newspaper distributed on the West Side of Manhattan, where Mr. Grimsby had an apartment, Mr. Grimsby said local news had changed only in that "they get away with more now."
        He is survived by his wife, Maria, and a daughter, Karen, from his first marriage.
      