
        Henry R. Lieberman, a foreign correspondent and later an editor for The New York Times, died yesterday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 78.
        The cause was a stroke after a long illness, his family said.
        Starting just after World War II, Mr. Lieberman, who was known as Hank, spent 12 years in China and the Far East for The Times. Staying up late night after night -- the time difference between Shanghai and New York turned filing for the newspaper's early-evening deadlines into a wee-hours routine -- Mr. Lieberman covered China's civil war and its fall to the Communists in 1949.
        Later, as the editor in charge of science news, he supervised coverage of technology, medicine and space exploration that was later incorporated into a separate weekly section, Science Times. He oversaw The Times's coverage of the Apollo space missions, including the one in July 1969 when Neil A. Armstrong stepped out of the lunar-landing module and into history.
        In the 1970's, long before microprocessors put computers on every desktop, Mr. Lieberman developed ways to use their slower, bulkier ancestors at The Times. An inveterate tinkerer, he turned his house into an electronic Shangri-La in which the doorbell was answered by an electronic voice that chirped, "May I help you?" But at The Times, he figured out how to harness the power of mainframes to tabulate book sales for the best-seller list and to rank sports teams based on statistics rather than popularity.
        In the days when copy editors had to count a headline, letter by letter, to see whether it would fit in its allotted space, he devised a machine that could do the job. And long before robots were a mainstay of automobile assembly lines, he built a mechanical man. The four-foot-tall figure had a scrap-metal body and tin-can limbs, but it shuffled from place to place, with Mr. Lieberman guiding it by a remote-control device.
        Sometimes, Mr. Lieberman's curiosity almost got the better of him. Assigned to India in the late 1950's, he was warned not to drink the water. Soon, temptation set in. He resisted but decided to fill some test tubes with tap water. He sent them to a laboratory. A note came back: "Do not swim in that river."
        Mr. Lieberman was born in St. Louis on Nov. 24, 1916. He received his bachelor's degree in 1937 from Columbia College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and his master's degree, also from Columbia, in 1940. At Columbia, he studied Chinese, Russian, French, German and Spanish, the last three, he said at the time, in anticipation of becoming a correspondent in Europe.
        But his first assignments were closer to home. He became the campus correspondent for The New York American in 1934, switching in 1935 to The New York Journal, which he said "had more space to fill." The next year, he became the campus correspondent for The Times. He was hired as a full-time employee when he graduated.
        Mr. Lieberman left The Times in June 1940 for the afternoon newspaper P.M., where he covered local news and sports and was a night city editor, a night national editor and a Washington correspondent. In 1942, he joined the Foreign News Bureau of the Office of War Information in Washington, and later went to China as chief news editor of the agency's China branch. He flew into occupied Shandong and Korea with the Office of Strategic Services to release American prisoners.
        He rejoined The Times in Shanghai after Japan surrendered. He joked that he was known as Li Po-wen. "Li," he said in 1953, "is an old Chinese family name. Po-wen means 'universal knowledge.' I got tagged with it in Chungking by some Chinese who owed me money."
        But he also saw the horror of the Chinese civil war. On a visit to Su zhou, where the nationalists had repelled a fierce Communist attack, Mr. Lieberman knelt by the body of a Communist soldier on a battlefield where dozens of comrades lay dead. Mr. Lieberman looked up at the nationalist officer who was with him and said, "This man has been shot in the back of the head." The officer shrugged and said, "We didn't have enough facilities to take care of our own wounded."
        After a Council on Foreign Relations fellowship at Columbia in 1949-50, he returned to China and covered Southeast Asia from Hong Kong until 1956, when he was transferred to New Delhi. The next year, he was transferred again, this time to New York as an editor on the foreign desk. He became an assistant to the foreign editor in 1957 and an assistant news editor in 1961. In 1966, he became the coordinator of science news -- three years later, his title was changed to director of science news -- supervising large-scale reporting projects, including the men-on-the-moon stories in 1969.
        He supervised the modernization of the best-seller list in The New York Times Book Review in 1977, its first update in more than 30 years, by adding the techniques of market surveying, sample design and computer processing. Working with CBS News, he was also involved in political polling in several Presidential campaigns. He retired in 1981.
        He is survived by his wife, Kathryn, a son, Peter, of Scarsdale, and a daughter, Linda Teurlinckx of Harrison, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      