
        John Ellis, a prominent liberal Republican who worked on behalf of mentally ill children, died on March 6 at his home in Aiken, S.C. He was 82 and kept a home in Manhattan until 1975.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Ellis was a past president of the Association for Mentally Ill Children in Brooklyn. In South Carolina, he served on a governor's task force on mental health and raised funds to start the Tri-Development Center of Aiken for mentally and physically disabled children and the elderly.
        For 45 years, Mr. Ellis was associated with the Wall Street investment firm of Eastman Dillon & Company in its various incarnations, serving as a senior partner and retiring as a consultant in 1986.
        Mr. Ellis was born in Cresskill, N.J., the son of a railroad worker. He picked fruit and worked as a bellhop to save enough money to enroll in the University of Pennsylvania. He came to New York in 1940 and worked as a runner on Wall Street, taking business courses at New York University at night.
        During World War II, he was a lieutenant commander in the Navy. After the war, he returned to Wall Street.
        After campaigning for Wendell L. Willkie against Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1940, he organized a We the People party and ran unsuccessfully for the New York City Council the next year. By 1946, he was on the board of the Young Republican Club, backing liberal Republicans.
        The party picked him to run against Representative Vito Marcantonio in East Harlem and Yorkville in 1948. Mr. Marcantonio ran for the leftist American Labor Party and won over a split opposition.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Ellis was a board member of the Young Men's Christian Association of Greater New York and headed a major fund-raising campaign for a modernization program.
        Mr. Ellis was a key figure in drives that took John V. Lindsay to Congress and City Hall. In 1964, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller recruited him to coordinate his bid for the Presidential nomination in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, where Mr. Ellis had an estate.
        He is survived by his wife, Sue Markland Jones Ellis; a son, Robin, and a daughter, Kerry Ellis-Swan, both of Aiken; two brothers, Howard P., of Wilmington, Del., and Rudulph of Aiken; a sister, Aurora Barnett of Norwalk, Conn., and three grandchildren.
      