
        Dr. William A. Fowler, a Nobel laureate who played a leading role in developing the commonly accepted theory that virtually all of the elements throughout the universe were created inside the stars, died on Tuesday at Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 83 and lived in Pasadena.
        The cause was kidney failure, said Charles Barnes, an emeritus professor of physics at the California Institute of Technology.
        Dr. Fowler, an astrophysicist, carried out most of his research at Caltech, where he was Institute Professor of Physics emeritus. In a career spanning more than 60 years, he worked at the forefront of central issues in physics and cosmology, successfully combining experiments using particle accelerators with the development of theories.
        With colleagues he devised a complete theory to explain the formation of the chemical elements. He and his colleagues founded a new field, nuclear astrophysics, and showed that all of the elements from carbon to uranium could be produced in stellar furnaces.
        In this process, called nucleosynthesis, heavier elements are produced from lighter ones, starting only with the hydrogen and helium produced in the Big Bang, the theorized explosive birth of the universe more than 10 billion years ago.
        "All of us are truly and literally a little bit of stardust," he said.
        For this work Dr. Fowler shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1983 with Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar of the University of Chicago, saying modestly that he considered it to be an award for his laboratory, the Kellogg Radiation Laboratory at Caltech.
        Shortly after World War II, he embarked on a systematic effort at the lab to understand the evolution of stars by studying the rates of nuclear reactions that produced their energy. The theory about the formation of the elements was described in 1957 in a seminal paper, "Synthesis of the Elements in Stars," written with Fred Hoyle and the husband-and-wife team of Margaret and Geoffrey Burbidge.
        According to the theory, in a star like the sun, two hydrogen nuclei, or protons, combine to create the next heavier element, helium, generating a lot of energy in the process. The process continues, building simple elements until the star explodes after millions of years. Larger stars build even heavier elements.
        William Alfred Fowler was born in Pittsburgh on Aug. 9, 1911, and grew up in Lima, Ohio. He received a bachelor of science degree from Ohio State University in 1933 and earned a doctorate in physics at Caltech in 1936. He promptly joined the faculty there as a research fellow, becoming a professor in 1946. He was Institute Professor of Physics from 1970 until he retired in 1982.
        During World War II, he worked on defense projects, particularly the design of proximity fuses for shells, the type that detonate only when close to the target. He also helped build the Naval Ordnance Test Station at China Lake, Calif., and was acting director of research there until 1944. Then he helped produce components of the atom bomb.
        A prodigious researcher and writer, he published more than 180 scientific articles. His later research findings were published in 1965 in a book he wrote with Dr. Hoyle, "Nucleosynthesis in Massive Stars and Supernovae." He also wrote "Nuclear Astrophysics" in 1967.
        Colleagues said Dr. Fowler was known for his sense of humor. One of the stories he liked to tell on himself was that he once was asked what he did for a living by an elderly woman sitting next to him in the audience at a Caltech event. He explained in technical terms that he worked on nuclear physics at the Kellogg Radiation Lab, named for the cereal magnate.
        "Young man, I still don't know what you do!" she said.
        "Well," he replied, "I bust atoms and study how things explode."
        "Oh," she said. "You puff rice!"
        Among other honors, Dr. Fowler received the National Medal of Science from President Gerald R. Ford in 1974, and the Legion d'Honneur from President Francois Mitterrand of France in 1989. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1956 and was a member of the National Science Board from 1968 to 1974 and of the Space Science Board from 1970 to 1973 and 1977 to 1980. He was president of the American Physical Society in 1976 and chairman of the International Astronomical Union in 1958.
        Just before the war he married Ardiane Foy Olmsted, who died in 1988. He is survived by his second wife, Mary, and two daughters from his first marriage, Mary Galowin and Martha Schoenemann.
      