
        Yves Cardinal Congar, an influential Dominican theologian whose reformist views helped to inspire Pope John XXIII and the Second Vatican Council, died on Thursday in Paris. He was 91.
        Ordained a priest in 1930, Pere Congar, as he was widely known throughout his life, soon became a defining force of the ecumenical movement, which had been seen as a largely Protestant enterprise. In January 1936 he preached a series of sermons on the subject in Paris, and the next year he attended ecumenical conferences in Oxford, England, and Edinburgh. He sustained his commitment to the movement through decades of speaking and writing.
        Pope John Paul II honored him for his life's work by naming him a cardinal last year. It was also a formal act of forgiveness on the part of today's conservative Vatican.
        A prolific writer, Pere Congar was a driving force in the French worker-priest movement, which called on priests to be close to workers by living their lives.
        The Vatican disapproved of that notion, on the ground that it distracted priests from their ecclesiastical function. The Vatican held that priests risked being led into trade union affiliations and were subjected to too many secular temptations.
        Pere Congar was severely chastized by the Vatican and fell into disgrace. For two years he was forbidden to teach, lecture or publish, and he was banished to obscure posts in Jerusalem and Rome. His deep unhappiness about such treatment seemed to account for what later became his extreme caution in promoting more progressive tenets in modern Catholicism.
        But by 1960, under Pope John XXIII, he was back in good graces and helped to shape the Second Vatican Council into a turning point for the Roman Catholic Church toward modernism.
        After the Council, Pere Congar's biblical and liturgical studies gained him an international reputation. But by 1968, a painful neurological ailment forced him to give up most physical activities.
        For all his liberalism, Pere Congar opposed the marriage of priests and the annulment of Martin Luther's excommunication for the sake of ecumenism. But he strongly favored ordaining laymen "where there are no priests" and argued that some of the essential problems of the Church could be solved at the parish level.
        Yves Marie-Joseph Congar was born in Sedan, in the Ardennes region in eastern France, the son of a bank manager. After high school in Sedan, he entered a seminary in Rheims. Moving to Paris, he studied at the Catholic Institute and the Dominican seminary at Le Saulchoir, just south of Paris.
        Pere Congar earned a doctorate in theology and embarked upon a career as a teacher, preacher, writer and orator. From 1931 to 1954 he held the chair of theology and apologetics, which deals with the defense and proofs of Christianity, at Le Saulchoir.
        Between 1937 and 1968 he wrote 16 books. Even the first, "Disunited Christians," dealt with the problems underlying ecumenism. Others included "Real and Erroneous Reform of the Church" (1950), which outlined his characteristic approach to reform, halfway between the exigency of religious freedom and respect of the hierarchy.
        "Milestones for a Theology of the Laymanship" (1963) enlarged on one of his favorite themesm, and "Situation and Present Tasks of Theology" (1967) summed up his position on the multiple challenges of modern society to time-honored church precepts. His writings brought him a prize from the French Academy.
        In World War II he served in the French Army as a medical orderly and was taken prisoner by the Germans, from whom he escaped. Pere Congar was a knight of the French Legion of Honor and won the Croix de Guerre.
      