
        The Rev. Joseph P. Fitzpatrick, a Fordham University professor who taught generations of sociologists and earned renown for his studies of immigration, died on Wednesday in the Jesuit infirmary on Fordham's Rose Hill campus in the Bronx. He was 82.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, according to the Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, the president of Fordham University.
        An expert on Latin American and Puerto Rican immigration, particularly the influx from Puerto Rico to New York City after World War II, Father Fitzpatrick spoke out forcefully for acceptance of newcomers and for tolerance and respect.
        After a study of Puerto Ricans in six Roman Catholic parishes in New York, he reported: "I found that 25 percent of all the Puerto Rican marriages involved people of noticeably different shades of color. It is my own hope that they will make explicit the principles of human brotherhood, of universal respect for men and women, that have been implicit in their culture. If they do, they will have brought a priceless contribution to the life of the mainland."
        Father Fitzpatrick stood against any who equated Puerto Ricans with welfare recipients and Puerto Rican youngsters with juvenile delinquency. In a 1959 speech, he reminded his audience of the shared experience of America's immigrants.
        "As children of immigrants ourselves," he said, "if we reflect on the experience of our own people, we should be best prepared not to make the mistake of judging the Puerto Ricans in the unjust way in which our people were judged themselves."
        Father O'Hare said, "He did a tremendous job explaining the new immigrants to the old immigrants."
        Father Fitzpatrick served on many boards and committees, including those of the Puerto Rican Family Institute and the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund.
        In 1978 he received the Puerto Rican Man of the Year Award during the annual San Juan Fiesta. And he held honorary degrees from the Catholic University of Puerto Rico, Fordham, John Jay College, Loyola University of Chicago and Manhattan College.
        Father Fitzpatrick wrote many articles and was the author or editor of eight books, including "Puerto Rican Americans: The Meaning of Migration to the Mainland" (Prentice-Hall) and "One Church, Many Cultures: The Challenge of Diversity" (Sheed & Ward).
        Father Fitzpatrick, who was born in Bayonne, N.J., entered the Society of Jesus in 1930 and was ordained a priest in 1943. He held a bachelor's degree from Woodstock College in Woodstock, Md., a master's from Fordham, a licentiate in sacred theology from Woodstock and a doctorate in sociology from Harvard University.
        His work in the 1930's with the Catholic labor movement and the opportunities afforded workers evolved into his interest in new immigrants. In 1949, after directing the Xavier Institute of Industrial Relations in New York City, he joined the faculty of Fordham, where he founded the university's independent department of sociology and anthropology in 1959 and served as its first chairman until 1964. He was named professor emeritus in 1983.
        He is survived by three brothers, Cyril, Francis and the Rev. Vincent Fitzpatrick.
      