
        Charles Tyroler 2d, a member of the President's Intelligence Oversight Board during the Reagan and Bush Administrations and a longtime Democratic Party strategist, died last Monday at Fernwood House, a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 80 and had lived in Bluemont, Va.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Tyroler was one of three members of the Intelligence Oversight Board, created during the Ford Administration to insure the propriety of the nation's intelligence activities.
        He was also a founder of the Committee on the Present Danger, a hawkish foreign-policy group that pressed for a strong posture against the Soviet Union. The committee at one time listed among its 182 members 32 officials of the Reagan Administration and included such influential figures as President Ronald Reagan; William J. Casey, the Director of Central Intelligence, and Jeanne Kirkpatrick, chief delegate to the United Nations.
        Mr. Tyroler served as director of the group's executive committee in the early 1980's, and in 1984 edited a collection of the organization's position papers that was called "Alerting America" (Pergammon-Brassey's International Defense Publishers).
        Mr. Tyroler was reared in New York and educated at the University of Chicago and at Columbia University, where he received a master's degree in political science in 1936.
        He managed the 1956 Vice-Presidential campaign of Senator Estes Kefauver, Democrat of Tennessee, and then served from 1957 to 1960 as the director of the Democratic Advisory Council, which advised the party on policy between national conventions.
        He was active in the Presidential campaigns of John F. Kennedy in 1960, Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964 and Hubert H. Humphrey in 1968.
        Beginning in 1960, he was also a senior partner of Counsellors on National Problems, a Washington-based business and political consulting firm.
        He is survived by two stepchildren, Sara Doane Games Forster of Los Alamitos, Calif., and Edmund Burke Games Jr., of Dedham, Mass., and a nephew, Charles King Mallory 3d of Washington.
      