
        David Livingston, former president of District 65 of the United Auto Workers and a longtime proponent of civil rights, died yesterday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I. He was 80 and lived in Manhasset, L.I.
        The cause was lymphoma, said his son Daniel.
        A native of Bensonshurst, Brooklyn, Mr. Livingston graduated from New Utrecht High School, and became active in the labor movement as a prelaw student at Columbia University in the 1930's.
        He was working part time as a shipping clerk for a wholesale textile distributorship when the company's eight employees went on strike to form a union. Mr. Livingston, who had already organized anti-Hitler demonstrations on the Columbia campus, took a leadership role in the struggle, and after the union was formed became its president.
        Soon afterward, his local merged with another led by Arthur Osman to form District 65 of the Distributive Workers of America. District 65 eventually grew to a membership of more than 40,000 workers, with the members coming from beyond just the textile industry.
        Over the years, the District 65 umbrella covered clerical workers at half a dozen universities, graduate teaching assistants at the University of California and the University of Massachusetts, factory workers for Revlon, writers for The Village Voice, lawyers for the Legal Services Corporation and clerical and technical workers at publishing houses.
        "District 65 became particularly active in organizing women and minorities," said his son Daniel, a lawyer who used to work as an organizer for the union.
        "I think he would be particularly proud of the union being one of the earliest supporters of the civil rights movement," Daniel Livingston added. "He was a confidant of Dr. Martin Luther King, among other civil rights leaders, and in 1960, right before the election, he arranged a meeting between Dr. King and John F. Kennedy."
        Under Mr. Livingston's leadership, District 65 forged a strong relationship with the women's movement, dealing particularly with issues like equal pay, sexual harassment and the need for day care. The union was also a leader in labor's participation in efforts to end the Vietnam War, particularly through an organization called Labor for Peace, which Mr. Livingston formed. At several large peace demonstrations in New York and Washington, Mr. Livingston acted as master of ceremonies.
        "All the kids in the family grew up with the union," Daniel Livingston said. "We were on picket lines before we could walk, and that's not a joke."
        District 65 merged with the U.A.W. in 1981. Eleven years later, the relationship with the U.A.W. changed so that each local received a direct charter from the parent union. At that point, Mr. Livingston retired.
        Besides his son, who lives in Hartford, Mr. Livingston is survived by his wife, Beatrice; another son, Peter, of Madison, Wis.; a daughter, Julie, of Manhasset, five grandchildren and one great-grandson.
      