
        Carlo Pietrangeli, an archeologist and director of the Vatican museums who oversaw the restoration of Michelangelo's frescoes in the Sistine Chapel, died Friday in Rome. He was 82.
        Professor Pietrangeli had been ill for some time.
        In a career in which he published more than 500 books and scholarly articles, Professor Pietrangeli also helped reorganize the museums of the City of Rome after the turmoil of World War II -- most notably the magnificent collections of Greek and Roman art in the Capitoline Museums.
        In 1978, during the one-month pontificate of Pope John Paul I, he was named Director General of the Monuments, Museums and Pontifical Galleries of the Vatican, which house some of the most stunning collections of Greek, Roman, Egyptian and Etruscan art, as well as extraordinary works of painting, sculpture and crafts stretching from the Renaissance to Picasso.
        Under his 17-year stewardship, the collections of Egyptian, Etruscan, and modern art were completely reorganized. The number of visitors doubled, from 1.3 million in 1978, the year he assumed the post, to 2.7 million last year.
        Professor Pietrangeli not only opened the doors to ever larger crowds of visitors; he also initiated the practice of sending the Vatican's treasures abroad. In recent years, exhibits like "The Vatican Collections" and "Vatican Splendor" traveled to cities around the world.
        Perhaps Professor Pietrangeli's most controversial undertaking was the painstaking 14-year restoration of the frescoes of Michelangelo that adorn the ceiling and rear wall of the Sistine Chapel.
        After negotiating to obtain financing from the Nippon Television network of Japan, Professor Pietrangeli entrusted the restoration to a team led by Gianluigi Colalucci, the Vatican's chief restorer. In 1989, Mr. Colalucci's team completed the extensive cleaning of the ceiling frescoes, and in 1994 they unveiled the restored depiction of the "Last Judgment" over the chapel altar.
        Though the cleaning stunned the art world with its revelation of Michelangelo's use of bright colors, it shocked some art historians who feared the works had been permanently disfigured.
        "He trusted us and followed step by step both the cleaning of the vaults and the 'Judgment,' " Mr. Colalucci said. "But above all he had the courage to confront the criticisms, the polemics -- at times vicious -- on whether the restoration was advisable or not."
        When the Vatican's director of Byzantine, medieval and modern art, Fabrizio Mancinelli, died suddenly during the restoration of the "Last Judgment," it was Professor Pietrangeli who made the difficult decision to remove many of the drapes that were ordered painted over Michelangelo's work by the Council of Trent in 1564 to cover nude figures, Mr. Colalucci said.
        Professor Pietrangeli was born in Rome and graduated from Rome University in 1934 with a doctoral thesis on ancient topography. His many books include "The Family of Augustus" (1938) and "Excavations and Discoveries of Antiquity During the Pontificate of Pius VI" (1958), and popular volumes on the museums of Rome. A book of his writings was recently published in Rome.
        His most recent achievement was the unveiling last month of restored frescoes in the Sancta Sanctorum, the former papal chapel adjoining St. John Lateran, the Pope's cathedral as Bishop of Rome. The restoration of eight frescoes, done by an unknown artist of the late 13th century, has prompted some art historians to revive an argument that Rome has a place beside Florence and Siena as a center of the rebirth of pictorial art that led to the Renaissance.
        Professor Pietrangeli is survived by his wife, Laetitia Angeli Nieri Mongalli.
      