
        Judge Harold M. Fong of Federal District Court in Hawaii, who prompted an important constitutional ruling and became involved in the tangled legal affairs of Ferdinand E. Marcos, the longtime President of the Philippines, died on Thursday at Queen's Medical Center in Honolulu. A lifelong resident of Honolulu, he was a few days short of his 57th birthday.
        The cause was complications from heart surgery for which he was admitted on Sunday, the court said.
        Judge Fong's court received national attention several times in the past few years. The constitutional issue, settled by the Supreme Court in 1992, arose from a ruling the judge made two years earlier concerning write-in votes.
        A lawyer who had moved to Hawaii from New Jersey went to court in 1986 to challenge Hawaii's ban on write-in votes. Only three other states, Indiana, Nevada and Oklahoma, made no provision for such votes.
        Judge Fong sided with the plaintiff, ruling that write-ins were a protected form of political expression. "If even one voter wishes to dissent from the voice of the majority by writing in the name of a candidate not available on the printed ballot, this court believes that is his right," he wrote.
        The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, disagreed, overturning his decision in the case, Burdick v. Takushi, No. 91-535, declaring there was no "unlimited right to vote for any particular candidate."
        The Supreme Court settled the matter by a 6-to-3 vote. It said a state could bar write-ins as long as it provided reasonable routes to the ballot for those who were not the official candidates of established parties.
        Judge Fong's encounter with Mr. Marcos concerned millions of dollars worth of currency, jewelry and other assets that the Marcoses took to Hawaii after fleeing their homeland. The assets had been impounded by the Customs Service, which found that Mr. Marcos had declared only a fraction of what he and his wife, Imelda, brought with them.
        Judge Fong ordered the release of the assets in June 1986, leaving the Bank of the Philippines to seek legal redress. He told Customs to let the items go as long as Mr. Marcos complied with the laws and paid the proper duties.
        Judge Fong was born in Honolulu and graduated from the University of Southern California and the University of Michigan Law School. He was the United States Attorney for the District of Hawaii when President Ronald Reagan appointed him to the bench in 1982.
        He is survived by his wife of 29 years, Judith Tom Fong; two sons, Harold M. and Terrence M.; a brother, Donald, and a sister, Alice Yeed.
      