
        Archbishop Mar Athanasius Yeshue Samuel, the primate of the Syrian Orthodox Church of the United States and the man who obtained the first of the 2,000-year-old Dead Sea Scrolls and brought them to world attention, died last Sunday at his residence in Lodi, N.J. He was 87.
        The cause was a heart attack, church leaders said.
        Archbishop Samuel, a native of Syria, was the bishop, or metropolitan, of Jerusalem in 1947 when a cobbler he knew in Bethlehem brought him seven pieces of ancient leather he had received from Bedouin shepherds. They had discovered the leather while searching for a lost goat in a cave near the Dead Sea and thought the cobbler might be able to use it to make shoes.
        The cobbler, noticing that writing appeared on the skins when they were accidentally splashed with water, took them to the bishop. He recognized the writing as Aramaic but could not decipher what scholars later determined to be religious texts dating to 200 B.C.
        It was through further inquiries the bishop made in Jerusalem and elsewhere that word of the discovery and its scholarly implications slowly became known and led to the discovery of some 800 other scrolls.
        But partly because of the turmoil surrounding the creation of the state of Israel, the bishop still had the scrolls when he came to West New York, N.J, in 1949, initially to collect money for victims of the war in Palestine and eventually as the spiritual leader of the fledgling United States diocese of his church.
        In 1954, after placing an ad in The Wall Street Journal, Archbishop Samuel sold the scrolls for $250,000 to an intermediary acting for Israel. They are housed in the Israel Museum in Jerusalem.
        The money helped finance the growth of the Syrian church in the United States, but not as much as Archbishop Samuel would have liked. Because a trust he had established to receive the proceeds was found to have been improperly drawn up, he had to report the money as personal income, and most of it went to pay taxes.
        Even so, the Syrian church, whose members consider it the mother church of Christianity and are celebrating Easter today, has grown in the United States to 24 parishes, from 2 parishes in 1949, and has 40,000 adherents.
        During the last years of his life, Archbishop Samuel's followers sought a way to continue a 2,000-year-old tradition in which an archbishop is buried within his sanctuary. They worked unsuccessfully to gain state permission for his entombment in one of three Syrian Orthodox churches: in Burbank, Calif., Teaneck, N.J., or New York City.
        After officials refused such permission, arrangements were made for the archbishop's burial at a monastery in the Netherlands.
        Archbishop Samuel leaves no immediate survivors.
      