
        Porter Hardy Jr., a former Virginia Congressman who uncovered Government waste and fraud during 22 years in the House of Representatives, died on Wednesday at his home in Virginia Beach. He was 91.
        Mr. Hardy, a Democrat who retired in 1969, had been suffering from pneumonia, said his daughter, Lynn Yeakel of Rosemont, Pa., the unsuccessful Democratic nominee for the Senate in the 1992 race against Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania.
        Mr. Hardy had been a potato and vegetable farmer before his election to Congress in 1946, but he was a farmer with a difference, having spent two years at the Harvard School of Business Administration.
        As chairman of investigation subcommittees for the Armed Services and Government Operations Committees, he showed that he had an acute sense of propriety and public economy.
        Mr. Hardy's subcommittees generally did not have to look far to find what Mr. Hardy once denounced as "plush and frills."
        It was a tribute to her father, Mrs. Yeakel said yesterday, that his subcommittee reports were invariably unanimous.
        As a Representative from the Tidewater region of Virginia, Mr. Hardy was at once typical of his place and time and something of a maverick.
        Although he inevitably voted against civil-rights measures, he was never subservient to Senator Harry F. Byrd, whose segregationist machine ran Virginia politics from the 1920's to the 1960's.
        Mr. Hardy, who entered Congress by unseating a Democratic incumbent over Senator Byrd's objections, maintained his independent ways to the end of his career, voting for public housing and other Great Society measures opposed by the Byrd machine.
        In addition to his daughter, now the regional director for the Department of Health and Human Services for five mid-Atlantic states and the District of Columbia, Mr. Hardy, whose son, Porter 3d, was killed in an automobile crash in 1986, is survived by his wife, Lynn, and four grandchildren.
      