
        Don Pullen, one of the major jazz pianists of his generation, died on Saturday at his brother's home in East Orange, N.J. He was 53 and lived in Passaic, N.J.
        The cause was lymphoma, said Don Lucoff, a publicity representative for Blue Note Records.
        Mr. Pullen was one of the most percussive pianists in jazz. His improvisations brimmed with splashed clusters, hammered notes and large two-handed chords. His solos often started out traditionally, with single note lines articulating a composition's harmony, then grew richer with bright explosions of tones. Mr. Pullen used the backs of his hands, or occasionally an elbow; he managed to take techniques from the modern European classical repertory and use them in his music without ever losing a jazz sensibility. Mr. Pullen's importance lies in part in his ability to synthesize so many different forms of expression.
        Although Mr. Pullen began as a church pianist and became interested in the work of Art Tatum, he was quickly accepted into the ranks of the avant-garde of the 1960's. In 1965 in New York, he worked with Giuseppe Logan and played for a series of rhythm-and-blues singers including Big Maybelle, Ruth Brown and Arthur Prysock, often using the organ instead of the piano. But his main allegiance was to the free jazz of the era, and he regularly performed with the drummer Milford Graves in the mid-1960's.
        In 1973 he began a two-year association with Charles Mingus, who helped introduce Mr. Pullen's style to a wider audience. He was heard on two important albums, "Changes 1" and "Changes 2." Mr. Mingus prized what Mr. Pullen had to offer: a church-driven power, a blues sensibility and a harmonic sophistication.
        In the late 1970's and early 80's, he and the drummer Beaver Harris led a rocking group, 360 Degree Music Experience, which included steel drums and the powerful saxophonist Ricky Ford. And in 1979, with the saxophonist and Mingus alumnus George Adams, he started a group that recorded 10 albums over the next decade.
        Mr. Pullen had begun his own career as a soloist in 1975, recording for the Canadian Sackville label. In the 1970's he recorded for Atlantic Records, among others, and in 1985 he released an exceptional album, "The Sixth Sense," for the Italian label Black Saint. He also regularly worked in clubs.
        He continued with a series of stunning albums for Blue Note Records. Some were trio recordings that allowed Mr. Pullen to draw on all his experiences as a musician; the church, rhythm-and-blues, pop and jazz all came out in them, as did his extraordinarily inventive and distinct improvisational style. And he recorded three albums of Brazilian-influenced jazz. Mr. Pullen was still recording and performing several weeks ago, and in early March he finished his last recording, due out next year.
        He is survived by his companion, Jana Haimsohn; three sons, Andre, Don and Keith; a daughter, Tracey; his father, Aubrey; a sister, Doris; three brothers, Keith, Aubrey and James, and a granddaughter.
      