
        Carl A. Gerstacker, chairman of the Dow Chemical Company from 1960 to 1976, died on Sunday night in Midland, Mich. He was 78.
        The cause of death was leukemia, said his stepson, William D. Schuette of Midland.
        Mr. Gerstacker's tenure as chief of the nation's second largest chemical company coincided with growing public opposition to the Vietnam War and the company's position as the military's sole supplier of napalm, a substance used in firebombs.
        Recruiters from Dow Chemical were chased off college campuses in the late 1960's and antiwar demonstrators protested at stockholders meetings, objecting to civilian casualties caused by napalm bombing. Mr. Gerstacker defended the company's production of the napalm as necessary to defend American troops in Vietnam.
        "You are asking us to stop arbitrarily the supply of weapons to our young men that have been drafted and who are serving in a far foreign land," Mr. Gerstacker told protesters at a stockholders meeting in 1969. But Dow lost the napalm contract to a smaller company in 1970, and has not produced it since.
        Mr. Gerstacker had a family connection to Dow Chemical through an uncle, James D. Pardee, who was one of the original backers of H. H. Dow when he founded the company to produce chemicals from brine springs found near Midland, in east-central Michigan.
        Mr. Gerstacker grew up in Cleveland and became interested in business and finance, but at the suggestion of his father he majored in chemical engineering at the University of Michigan, graduating in 1938.
        He joined Dow the same year as a production engineer. Two years later he joined the Army and supervised the production of munitions throughout World War II. Rejoining the company in 1946, Mr. Gerstacker moved into purchasing and finance, and by 1950 was appointed treasurer of the company. He was named a vice president in 1955 and chairman of the finance committee of the company's board in 1959.
        Besides his stepson he is survived by his wife, Esther S. Gerstacker; two daughters, Bette M. Gerstacker of Honolulu and Lisa G. Walsh of Boulder, Colo., and two stepdaughters, Sandra S. Joys of Greenwich, Conn., and Gretchen S. Schuette of Troutdale, Ore.
      