
        Elting E. Morison, an educator, historian and author of two biographies of military leaders, died last Thursday at the Pheasant Wood Nursing Home in Peterborough, N.H. He was 85.
        Mr. Morison died after a long illness, said Daniel Keaveny, a spokesman for the Jellison Funeral Home in Peterborough.
        Best known for his biographies of such military leaders as Admiral William S. Sims, the brash naval visionary, and Henry L. Stimson, the patrician Secretary of War during World War II, Mr. Morison said he was much less interested in military affairs than the manner in which his subjects became masters of technology.
        Late in life, he focused directly on this interest in a book titled "From Know-How to Nowhere" in which he tried to explain the development of American technology from 1800, when the nation was not able to build a 26-mile canal between the Charles and Merrimack Rivers in Massachusetts, to the late 1960's, when men flung themselves to the moon.
        Mr. Morison was born in Milwaukee, earned both a bachelor's and a master's degree in history from Harvard University and later returned to Harvard for two years as assistant dean.
        His first book was the biography of Admiral Sims, who as early as the 1920's had prophesied that the aircraft carrier would soon outmode the battleship and that the Philippines were militarily indefensible.
        His biography of Sims was well timed. It was published only a few months after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, and Japan's conquest of the Philippines.
        His biography, "Admiral Sims and the Modern American Navy," won the J. H. Dunning prize of the American History Association. Mr. Morison knew his subject well, having married the admiral's youngest daughter, Anne Hitchcock Sims, in 1935.
        This book was followed by Mr. Morison's editing of the eight volumes of the letters of Theodore Roosevelt.
        In 1960, Mr. Morison's biography of Stimson was termed definitive by Eric F. Goldman in a review that appeared on the front page of The New York Times Book Review.
        Called "Turmoil and Tradition: A Study of the Life and Times of Henry L. Stimson," the book was awarded the Francis Parkman Prize of the Society of American Historians.
        Mr. Morison was a frequent contributor to The New York Times Book Review, commenting on subjects as diverse as the collected papers of Adlai E. Stevenson and a biography of the band leader Lawrence Welk.
        Mr. Morison's teaching career kept him in New England. In 1946, after service in the Naval Reserve during World War II, he joined the faculty of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as a professor of humanities in the Sloan School of Industrial Management.
        After 20 years at M.I.T., he moved to Yale University where he taught history and served as master successively of three Yale colleges. After his retirement from Yale, he returned briefly to M.I.T. as Killian Professor Emeritus of Humanities.
        Mr. Morison is survived by his second wife, Elizabeth Forbes Tilghman Morison of Peterborough; a son, Nicholas G. Morison; two daughters, Mary Morison Nur and Sarah Morison Ford; a brother, John Morison of Lyndeborough, N.H., and three grandchildren.
      