
        James K. Batten, a former reporter who rose to become chairman of one of the country's largest newspaper companies, Knight-Ridder, died yesterday at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. He was 59.
        He had been fighting a malignant brain tumor for which he underwent surgery last summer. Because of his illness, Mr. Batten stepped down as chief executive of Knight-Ridder in March but remained chairman of the company until his death.
        Having spent his early years as a reporter and editor, Mr. Batten was an increasingly rare type of newspaper business executive, one with roots in his company's newsrooms. In a gentle accent from his native Virginia that summoned the image of a small-town newspaper editor, Mr. Batten often talked about what he called the fun and responsibility of putting out newspapers.
        "I have been blessed," he said in a speech in 1990, "with a career that has been endlessly exciting and never dull -- in a line of work that on its good days sends you home at night feeling you may have made at least a little difference."
        Knight-Ridder, the country's second largest newspaper publishing company after Gannett, publishes 28 daily newspapers across the country, including The Miami Herald, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Detroit Free Press and The San Jose Mercury News.
        In the later years of his career, Mr. Batten was known as a sophisticated business executive who changed the direction of his large public company by diversifying into electronic information services and emphasizing the need for newspapers to please those whom he unapologetically called their "customers" -- newspaper readers and advertisers.
        But he also spoke publicly about the need for newspapers to play a constructive role in their communities. He was one of the most influential proponents of a new approach to news, known as public journalism, which urges newspapers to try to draw people into discussions of public problems and suggests that newspapers should serve as a focal point in a search for solutions.
        Mr. Batten sometimes said his newspaper career began when, as a second grader in Holland, Va., he published his own paper, or when he edited the school paper at Davidson College in North Carolina. But he began working professionally for The Charlotte Observer in 1957. He was later a Washington correspondent specializing in Southern politics and civil rights, an assistant city editor at The Detroit Free Press, and executive editor of The Charlotte Observer.
        His corporate career began in 1975, when he took the first of a series of executive positions at Knight-Ridder's corporate headquarters in Miami. He became a director of the company in 1981, president in 1982, chief executive in in 1988 and chairman in 1989.
        Mr. Batten's courtly manner sometimes seemed out of place in the hurly-burly of newsrooms but it often won him the loyalty of fellow journalists, said Neal Shine, the publisher of The Detroit Free Press. During Mr. Batten's time at that paper, he said, one particularly ornery editor pegged scatological nicknames on most of his co-workers. The editor's nickname for Mr. Batten, Mr. Shine said, was Gentleman Jim.
        Larry Jinks, a Knight-Ridder editor and executive who worked with Mr. Batten, said that Mr. Batten had made the transition to business executive smoothly but was always keenly interested in the journalism being practiced by his newspapers. "He continued to care deeply until the last time I talked to him, which was two months ago, about the editorial values of his company," Mr. Jinks said.
        In addition to other awards, Mr. Batten received the William Allen White Foundation National Citation of Journalistic Merit from the University of Kansas School of Journalism and Mass Communications in 1990 and the George Polk Memorial Award for regional reporting in 1968.
        Mr. Batten is survived by his wife, Jean; a daughter, Laura, of Boston; two sons, Mark, of Washington, and Taylor, also of Boston; two granddaughters; his mother, Jo Batten of Suffolk, Va., and a brother, Robert, of Atlanta.
      