
        James M. McHaney, the American prosecutor who sent Nazi doctors to the gallows for conducting gruesome medical experiments on concentration camp inmates and others during World War II, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Little Rock, Ark. He was 76.
        His wife, Marilyn, said Mr. McHaney, who had Alzheimer's disease, died of arterial sclerosis.
        It was the chief prosecutor, Brig. Gen. Telford Taylor, who delivered the opening statement when 23 German doctors, scientists and medical administrators accused of crimes against humanity went on trial before a four-judge American tribunal in Nuremberg on Dec. 9, 1946, but it was Mr. McHaney who marshaled the evidence and presented it to the court.
        To Karl Brandt, Hitler's personal doctor, and the other defendants, their young adversary must have seemed less than imposing as he stood next to the 10-foot by 12-foot green yellow chart he used to delineate the Nazi medical establishment. "He was small," Mr. Taylor recalled yesterday. "He couldn't have been more than five-four."
        Then, again, it was not Mr. McHaney's size that had led General Taylor to pluck him out of an an army of eager assistants and make him the lead prosecutor in the first and most notorious of the 12 American-run war crime trials that followed the conviction of Hermann Goering and other Nazi leaders by an international military tribunal.
        Mr. McHaney, the son of a Justice of the Arkansas Supreme Court, had received both his bachelor's and his law degrees from Columbia University and was working for the New York law firm of Cahill Gordon & Reindel when he was recruited for Nuremberg.
        "He made a very good impression," said Mr. Taylor, now a retired Columbia law professor. "He seemed to be very good in the head."
        For all Mr. McHaney's skill, proving the charges was comparatively easy. He simply read to the court the meticulous records the doctors and scientists had proudly kept of their own experiments, among them deliberately infecting subjects with fatal diseases, killing 275,000 of the elderly, the deformed and other "useless eaters" through the guise of euthanasia and killing 112 Jews simply to fill out a university skeleton collection.
        He described one 50-page report on freezing as "the most startling, and most succinct report on murder in the history of criminology."
        The defenses included assertions claims that the defendants were following orders to arguments and that the experiments were justified because they added to vital medical knowledge.
        If Dachau inmates had not been kept in frigid water or tied naked outside in subfreezing temperatures for as long as 14 hours, the Nazi reasoning went, how else could the scientists have determined that death occurs when body temperature drops to precisely 26 degrees Celsius?
        Sixteen of the defendants were convicted, and seven of them, including Dr. Brandt, were hanged.
        As the lead prosecutor in two other trials, focusing on other concentration camp atrocities, Mr. McHaney obtained 24 more convictions, including 4 with the death penalty.
        After the trials, Mr. McHaney spent a year in Washington as general counsel of the precursor to the Small Business Association, then returned to Little Rock, where he practiced law until his retirement in 1988.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, James Jr., a lawyer in Little Rock; a daughter, Frances Allen of Pasadena, Calif.; a brother, Gallon of Fort Walton Beach, Fla.; two sisters, Virginia Thayer of Chicago and Bette Bennett of Lonoke, Ark., and four grandchildren.
      