
        Art Fleming, a tall, dignified actor who brought a generation of couch potatoes to attention and became an unlikely celebrity as the original host of the television quiz show "Jeopardy! ," died on Tuesday at his home in Crystal River, Fla. He was 70.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        The popularity of "Jeopardy! ," which went on the air in 1964, has been attributed to its unsettling format, in which questions are posed as answers and the answers must be expressed as questions. Then again, it was Mr. Fleming who gave "Jeopardy!" its face and its voice, not to mention its dignified posture.
        Mr. Fleming, who had the carriage of a gentleman soldier and the manner of a benign schoolmaster, seemed just the sort of host who wouldn't be resented for knowing, say, that it was Henry of Navarre who thought Paris well worth a mass in 1593.
        Merv Griffin, who created "Jeopardy! ," recalled yesterday that he had recruited Mr. Fleming after spotting him in an airline commercial and deciding that the actor had "the perfect look and command" for the show. "He built a huge cult following, which has stayed with the show all these years," Mr. Griffin said.
        Mr. Fleming, who served as the show's host throughout its initial run on NBC, from 1964 to 1974, and then for two more years when it was revamped in 1978 as "The All New Jeopardy," became so identified with "Jeopardy!" that it continued to give him a comfortable living.
        Mr. Fleming, who was also the host of the "College Bowl" quiz show for seven years, was passed over in favor of Alex Trebek, the current host, when "Jeopardy!" was revived in 1984. But he continued to make as many as 80 highly paid appearances a year as a host of mock "Jeopardy!" games staged by trade associations and other private groups.
        Mr. Fleming, who was born in New York City, was the son of a popular Austrian dance team, William and Marie Fazzin, who had come to New York with the intention of captivating American audiences. Their dream faded, but by the age of 4, their son was appearing in a Broadway musical. After studying at Colgate and Cornell Universities and serving as a Navy pilot in World War II, Mr. Fleming returned to New York City as an actor.
        By his own count, he appeared in more than 5,000 radio and television episodes and 48 movies. He also made commercials and acted on the stage.
        He is survived by his wife, Rebecca; a daughter, Jan Marie Hanna of Hampton Bays, L.I.; a sister, Marie Vitt of Larchmont, N.Y., who appeared on the Broadway stage as Marie Foster; two stepchildren, and five grandchildren.
      