
        Corliss Lamont, the Socialist author, teacher and humanist philosopher who battled Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, the C.I.A. and other icons of authority in a lifelong fight for civil liberties and international understanding, died on Wednesday at his country home in Ossining, N.Y. He was 93 years old and lived in New York City.
        Dr. Lamont died of heart failure, his family said.
        Born into wealth, the scion of the chairman of J. P. Morgan & Company, Dr. Lamont grew up with privilege, attended Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard University like his father and might have had the life of a patrician on Wall Street. Instead, he cast his lot into the arena of radical causes.
        In a career that spanned much of the century, Dr. Lamont wrote 16 books and hundreds of pamphlets on subjects ranging from humanism to McCarthyism; taught at Harvard, Cornell, Columbia and other universities; campaigned for Soviet-American friendship, and weathered false accusations of Communist affiliations.
        He also served as a director of the American Civil Liberties Union for 22 years, was chairman of the National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee for 30 years, won court fights against censure by Senator McCarthy and mail censorship by the Central Intelligence Agency, ran twice for the United States Senate, opposed the Vietnam War and championed the Bill of Rights in countless forums.
        "My final word is that in the battles that confront us today for America's freedom and welfare, our chief aim as public-spirited citizens must be neither to avoid trouble, nor to stay out of jail, nor even to preserve our lives, but to keep on fighting for our fundamental principals and ideals," Dr. Lamont concluded in his memoirs, "Yes to Life," published by Horizon Press in 1981.
        A descendent of men who fought in the American Revolution and the son of Thomas William Lamont, the partner of J. P. Morgan, Dr. Lamont first became a rebel at Harvard in the early 1920's, attacking university clubs as snobbish. Later as a young philosophy instructor at Columbia, he organized aid for Harvard scrubwomen dismissed in a dispute over a new minimum-wage law.
        He swung further to the left in the 1930's as he studied the causes of the Great Depression, wrote a book on the Soviet Union, became head of the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship and returned from visits to the Soviet Union with high praise. "The people are better dressed, food is good and plentiful, everyone seems confident, happy and full of spirit," he said.
        He later became more critical of Soviet failures -- deploring its treatment of political opponents as mentally ill, for example, and condemning the denial of free speech and other basic human rights -- though he insisted that a nation transformed from feudalism to superpower in a few decades could not be expected immediately to develop democratic institutions like those in the West.
        Critics later said he had been oversold on Stalinism and they attacked him as hopelessly naive as he continued to promote Soviet-American friendship long after the Cold War had made it a myth. And his espousal of these themes -- and of organizations supporting them -- made him an obvious target of redbaiters on Capitol Hill in the 1950's.
        Subpoenaed by Senator McCarthy, the Wisconsin Republican, in 1953, Dr. Lamont did not invoke a Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination. Instead he testified that he was not -- and had never been -- a Communist, but he refused to answer other questions about his political beliefs and associations, citing First Amendment freedoms due a private citizen.
        He was cited for contempt of Congress and fought back in Federal court. The District Court dismissed the charge and a Circuit Court unanimously upheld the dismissal in 1955. The Government did not appeal to the Supreme Court. While the case turned on the Senator's authority and not First Amendment rights, Dr. Lamont and his supporters regarded it as a major victory of his career.
        Dr. Lamont, who had been a director of the American Civil Liberties Union since 1932 and had long resisted efforts to oust Communists from the organization's board and staff, resigned in 1954, in part because the board was slow coming to his defense against Senator McCarthy. He then helped to found the National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee, which was non-Communist but eager to fight for the rights of Communists.
        Dr. Lamont ran for the Senate on the American Labor Party ticket in 1952 and received 10,000 votes. Six years later, he tried again on the Independent Socialist line and got 49,000 votes.
        In the late 1950's, Dr. Lamont won a case against the State Department, which had refused for nearly a decade to issue him a passport on the ground that his travel abroad "would be contrary to the best interests of the United States."
        In another court victory, Dr. Lamont won a suit in 1965 against the United States Postmaster General for violating his First Amendment rights by opening and withholding his mail, including propaganda from Peking. The Supreme Court held a 1961 anti-propaganda mail law to be unconstitutional.
        Also in 1965, Dr. Lamont won a lawsuit against the C.I.A., which had opened scores of letters mailed or received by him, including some from his wife. A Federal Court declared that "illegal prying into the shared intimacies of husband and wife is despicable."
        Throughout his pageant of political and social activities, Dr. Lamont continued to write, producing books on humanist philosophy, the Soviet Union, civil liberties issues and other topics, including intimate portraits of the British poet laureate John Masefield, the educator John Dewey, the philosopher Bertrand Russell and others he had known.
        He also wrote hundreds of pamphlets and thousands of letters to newspapers and acquaintances on a host of subjects -- opposing nuclear testing, the Vietnam War, the convictions of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, arguing strenuously for human and civil rights, international understanding and above all, peace. Dr. Lamont often made taped transcripts of conversations with friends and appeared frequently on radio, television and other forums.
        At the same time, he continued to teach, mostly at Columbia, but also at Harvard, Cornell and the New School for Social Research. In 1974, he was honored by Columbia for establishing major literary research collections at the school, including writings by George Santayana and Mr. Masefield and art by Rockwell Kent. In 1982, Dr. Lamont gave $1 million to Columbia's law school for a chair in civil liberties.
        Dr. Lamont, who was president of the American Humanist Association for many years, said his fusion of militancy and philosophy was based on humanist principles -- "not Christian service to an improbable God, but service here and now to our fellow human beings."
        He said the humanist uses intelligence and the scientific method to solve problems. "Reserving the word 'love' for his family and friends, the humanist takes an attitude of compassionate concern toward his fellow human beings in general," he said.
        Dr. Lamont's 1949 book, "The Philosophy of Humanism," is a standard text on the subject. His other books include "The Illusion of Immortality," (1935) and "The Peoples of the Soviet Union" (1946).
        Corliss Lamont was born on May 28, 1902, in Englewood, N.J., and grew up near the summit of the Palisades overlooking the Hudson River and Manhattan. He graduated from Phillips Exeter in 1920 and from Harvard in 1924 with a bachelor's degree and high honors. After a year at Oxford University, he became a philosophy lecturer at Columbia and in 1932 earned a doctor of philosophy degree there.
        Dr. Lamont's 1928 marriage to Margaret Hayes Irish, a writer and researcher who was co-author of his first book on the Soviet Union, "Russia Day by Day" (1933), ended in divorce. His second wife, Helen Lamb, whom he married in 1962, died in 1975. His third wife, Beth Keehner, whom he married in 1986, survives him.
        Dr. Lamont is also survived by a son, Hayes, of Newton, Mass.; three daughters, Margot Heap of Greenwich, Conn., Florence Antonides of Avon, Conn., and Anne Jafferis of New Haven; six grandchildren and one great-grandchild; 14 step-children of his last two marriages and 50 step-grandchildren.
      