
        Dr. Michael Fordham, an influential British child psychiatrist and Jungian psychoanalyst, died on April 14 at Chalfont St. Peter, Buckinghamshire, England, where he had his office. He was 89 and lived in the nearby town of Jordans. He had pneumonia for some days before his death and had remained professionally active until he fell ill, said Dr. Thomas B. Kirsch, an American Jungian psychoanalyst.
        Dr. Kirsch, who is the president of the International Association for Analytical Psychology, a professional organization of Jungian psychoanalysts with more than 2,000 members, said yesterday that Dr. Fordham "was one of the most prominent and creative thinkers in the Jungian movement." He said Dr. Fordham was one of the last remaining members of the first generation of creative Jungian psychoanalysts.
        Dr. Fordham, who was close to Jung, was a co-editor of "Collected Works of C. G. Jung," in more than 20 volumes, which were published beginning in 1953 and are still in print from Princeton University Press.
        Jungian psychoanalysts apply the insights of the Swiss psychiatrist Carl Gustav Jung, who lived from 1875 to 1961 and founded analytical psychology. Jung is credited by his followers with originating the concept of the collective unconscious. He also worked out the concepts of extroversion and introversion, for studying types of personality, and that of individuation, which in the Jungian canon means truly becoming one's self and developing the potentialities within one's self.
        Analytical psychology is a term that Jung used to differentiate his concept of pschoanalysis from Freud's concept.
        Dr. Kirsch, who lives in Palo Alto, Calif., said that Dr. Fordham's "clinical theories and insights were at first seen as diverging from Jung's own way," but he added that "in the last 25 years, Dr. Fordham's work has become part of the main stream of analytical psychology."
        Dr. Fordham worked out a method that has been called the developmental school of Jungian psychology. It was at first used primarily in England. But later, Dr. Kirsch said, "his methods spread out through the world of analytical psychology, and his insights are applied everywhere."
        Through Dr. Fordham's research and writings, analytical psychology acquired its own theory of the development of an individual's psychology in the childhood years, which had formerly been lacking in Jungian thought.
        While Jung spoke of individuation in the second half of life, Dr. Fordham extended the concept of individuation to begin at birth, viewing the infant as already an individual and not just the product of his or her parents. His book "The Life of Childhood" was first published in 1944.
        In addition, Dr. Fordham organized a program, in London, for training Jungian psychoanalysts of children, and he collaborated with other prominent Jungians in the development and interchange of new ideas about the psychoanalyzing of children.
        Dr. Fordham also did research in the area of the psychoanalyst's countertransference, which means the feelings that are evoked in the psychoanalyst by the patient during psychoanalysis.
        He also wrote articles in his field as well as nine books all told, including a volume of memoirs. He also established a series of books about analytical pschology and was instrumental in the founding of the "Journal of Analytical Psychology."
        In addition, Dr. Fordham was a founding member of the Society of Analytical Psychology, the largest professional Jungian association in Britain, which is one of Dr. Kirsch's association's member organizations.
        Dr. Fordham was born in London and was educated at Cambridge University's Trinity College and at St. Bartholomew's Medical School in London.
        His 1928 marriage to Molly Swabey ended in divorce in 1940. Later that year he married Frieda Hoyle, who died in 1988.
        He is survived by a son, Max, of London.
      