
        Edgar Johnson, the author of biographies of Charles Dickens and Sir Walter Scott, which were hailed as examples of towering and exhaustive scholarship, and a former chairman of the Department of English at City College, died on Wednesday at his home in Albany. He was 93.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Unlike some scholarly works that are largely confined to university libraries, Professor Johnson's biographies of the two 19th-century writers were widely read.
        His biography of Dickens, "Charles Dickens: His Tragedy and Triumph" (1953), was selected as a Book-of-the-Month Club choice and sold 250,000 copies.
        "It sent my two children through college," Professor Johnson said later.
        The Dickens book appeared in two volumes and combined critical essays about Dickens's novels with a narrative about his life. Professor Johnson saw Dickens as not only a humanitarian writer whose fiction attacked numerous social abuses, but also as a radical whose hostility to the "whole dark muddle of organized society" was truly revolutionary.
        His 12 years of research for "Sir Walter Scott: The Great Unknown" (1968) were rewarded with the first American Heritage Biography Prize.
        Professor Johnson wrote seven other books, including two novels and a 1945 anthology, "A Treasury of Satire," which prompted Charles Poore to suggest in The New York Times that he "could probably find satire in the small type on the back of a railroad ticket."
        He began his teaching career at Columbia University and was a member of the City College faculty for 44 years. In an interview just before his retirement in 1972 as chairman of the department of English, Professor Johnson recalled how much he enjoyed spending the greater part of his life with Dickens and Scott.
        "Practically all of the improvement in the world is accomplished by people who insist on changing it rather than those who are prepared to change themselves," he said. Literature, he said, was his way of clearing the smoke and making people emerge vigorously alive, with all their strengths and weaknesses, even their lies.
        As for Dickens, he said, "He has the vividnesss, he has sensitivity, sharpness; he has wit." He saw Scott as a "man of supreme generosity, justice, and gentleness of character" who was one of the "great voices of sanity in the 19th century."
        In an interview in 1968, he said was at first repelled by Dickens. "But later I saw that his characters were bigger than life, but representive of an underlying reality," he said. "It took time getting used to."
        Professor Johnson was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Columbia in 1922. From 1924 to 1927, he taught at Washington University in St. Louis and then at Hunter College in New York City. He began his long tenure at City College in 1927.
        In 1933, Professor Johnson married Eleanor Kraus, an editor and literary researcher, who collaborated on most of his research. Together, they wrote "The Dickens Theatrical Reader." She died last year.
        Professor Johnson was a Fulbright senior scholar and a Guggenheim fellow. He received the Order of the Palms Academique in France and was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
        He is survived by a son, Laurence, of Boston; a daughter, Judith, of Albany, and nine gandchildren.
      