
        Gaston J. Sigur Jr., a principal counsellor on Asian affairs in the Reagan Administration and professor of East Asian Studies at George Washington University, died on Wednesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 70.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, the university said.
        As President Reagan's special envoy, Dr. Sigur (pronounced SEE-ger) was key to Washington's efforts to win trade concessions from Japan and nudge South Korea toward democracy.
        He left Government in early 1989 to return to George Washington University as Distinguished Professor of East Asian Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs. But he accompanied President Bush on his 1989 visit to China and, as a political conservative, continued to serve the Republican White House as a part-time adviser.
        Gaston Joseph Sigur Jr. was born in Franklin, La., and graduated from the University of Michigan, where he also earned his master's and doctorate in history. His expertise in United States-Japanese relations dated to his postwar Army service in occupied Japan and a stint as a research scholar at Sophia University in Tokyo in 1959-61.
        He was appointed a professor of international affairs and director of the Institute of Sino-Soviet Studies at George Washington University in 1972.
        In 1982 he joined the National Security Council and was named special assistant to the President for Asian affairs. Secretary of State George P. Shultz later recruited him as Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs.
        Since returning to the university, he also served as senior consultant of its Gaston Sigur Center for East Asian Studies, created and named in his honor in 1991.
        Dr. Sigur is survived by his wife of 45 years, Estelle Smotrys Sigur; a daughter, Katherine Labros of Rehoboth, Del.; four sons, Christopher of Brooklyn, Gaston 3d of Clinton, Mass., Paul of Paris, and Thomas of Silver Spring, Md.; a sister, Olive Zimmerman of Albuquerque, N.M.; and 10 grandchildren.
      