
        Harvey Penick, the golf instructor whose little red book of hints and witticisms became the best-selling sports book in history when he was 87 years old, died at his home in Austin., Tex., on Sunday. He was 90 years old and had been in poor health for some time.
        Only a week before Mr. Penick died, Ben Crenshaw, one of professional golf's top players and best putters, visited the ailing Mr. Penick at his home. Frail, hard-of-hearing, and bed-ridden, Mr. Penick was made aware that Mr. Crenshaw, his longtime pupil, was having trouble with his putting.
        Mr. Penick had troubled speaking, but he motioned to Mr. Crenshaw to get his putter -- and proceeded to give the golfer a lesson from his sickbed.
        Mr. Penick was a long-time guru in the golf world. He was the boyhood instructor of Tom Kite; he was the only coach Mr. Crenshaw ever had; he instructed Mickey Wright and Kathy Whitworth, two past stars of the Ladies Professional Golf Association tour, and he was a golf doctor consulted for emergency advice. He taught generations of players at the University of Texas, where he coached the golf team from 1931-1963.
        To his students, the great and the duffers, he was always "Mr. Penick." On Sunday, the day he died, the Austin Country Club, where he was head golf pro for 48 years, unveiled a bronze sculpture of him and Tom Kite.
        Mr. Kite, practicing in Augusta, Ga., for the start of this week's Masters, recalled yesterday that the last advice he had received from Mr. Penick was to "take dead aim" at the trophy. That was one of Mr. Penick's favorite expressions.
        "If there's ever been a person to take dead aim on life and hit a bull's-eye, it's Harvey Penick," Mr. Crenshaw said in a tribute last year. Even though the Masters begins on Thursday, both golfers planned to be in Austin tomorrow to act as pallbearers at Mr. Penick's funeral.
        "As much as Harvey's given to the game, it's a great loss," Mr. Crenshaw said yesterday. "It's hard for people to grasp how simple his philosophies of life were. The complexities of life were not in the man. He was like a servant to the game his whole life."
        Despite his fame in the golf world, the public was largely unaware of Mr. Penick and his teachings. But for 60 years, he scribbled in his little red book at the end of the day his thoughts on the course he had been on, anecdotes about the people he coached, and tips on how to play the game better. Example: "Sit next to good golfers at dinner time; their confidence will help make you a better putter."
        He happened to mention this diary to the author Bud Shrake, a former Sports Illustrated writer. Before long, he and Mr. Shrake had collaborated on a work that Simon & Schuster published in 1992 under the title, "Harvey Penick's Little Red Book: Lessons and Teachings From a Lifetime in Golf."
        When Mr. Shrake told Mr. Penick that the advance for the book would be about $90,000, Mr. Penick misunderstood who would be paying for what. Esther Newberg, the co-chairwoman of the literary department at International Creative Management, the book's agent, recalled yesterday that Mr. Penick believed he would be paying for it.
        "We'll see if there's another way we can take out another mortgage," he told Mr. Shrake.
        The book sold about 1.3 million copies. It was on The New York Times best-seller list in the category of hard-cover "Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous" books. Subsequently, the two collaborated on two more books, the most recent of which was published last week and is titled "For All Who Love the Game: Lessons and Teachings for Women."
        In the original book, he referred to himself as "a grown caddy still studying golf." He also offered some opinions on the best-dressed golfers (Ben Hogan was on the list).
        But on the course, Mr. Kite and Mr. Crenshaw, both from Austin, were his prized pupils. Mr. Kite is the leading tour money-winner in golf history with more than $9 million, while Mr. Crenshaw, with 18 tournament victories, has amassed almost $6 million. Mr. Kite, in fact, gave his 1992 United States Open trophy to Mr. Penick.
        Mr. Penick is survived by his wife, Helen; a daughter, Katherine Lee Powell; a son, Tinsley Penick, four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. THE UNCONQUERABLE GAME
        The advice, commentary and witticisms of Harvey Penick, the longtime golf instructor, charmed readers both for their unique insight and their simplicity. Here are some excerpts from his book "Harvey Penick's Little Red Book: Lessons and Teachings From a Lifetime in Golf." (Simon & Schuster, 1992):  Like chess, golf is a game that is forever challenging but can never be conquered. A good putter is a match for anyone. A bad putter is a match for no one.  The woods are full of long drivers. If you play poorly one day, forget it. If you play poorly the next time out, review your fundamentals of grip, stance, aim and ball position. Most mistakes are made before the club is swung. If you play poorly for a third time in a row, go see your professional. If you arrive at the course with just a few minutes to warm up before a round, use that time to hit chip shots.
        The chip shot, being a short version of the full swing, tells your muscles and your golfing brain to get ready to play.  Looking up is the biggest alibi ever invented to explain a terrible shot.
        By the time you look up, you've already made the mistake that caused the bad shot.  Face the ball plain, as if you are about to shake hands with someone on the other side of it. There's no need to get your body twisted into some kind of funny shape.  The golf swing is one swing, but it is made up of little things all working together.
      