
        Harold Wilson, a Yorkshireman who combined a common touch with an uncommon intellect that turned him into the British Labor Party's most formidable vote getter and perennial Prime Minister, died early yesterday in London. He was 79.
        Lady Wilson, his wife of 55 years, issued a statement saying Lord Wilson "died peacefully in his sleep around midnight." The cause of death was not given, but he was reported to have been fighting cancer for over a decade.
        He was admitted to St. Thomas's Hospital in central London on Sunday as a patient under the National Health Service, in keeping with his political image as a man of few pretensions and no taste for the lavish life.
        In recent years Lord Wilson -- he was made a baron in 1983 -- had faded from public view, largely because of illness. He spoke only four times during debates in the House of Lords, most recently nine years ago, although he attended sessions faithfully until last year.
        Both Houses of Parliament cut sessions short yesterday in his honor, and tributes flowed from political figures of all parties. Prime Minister John Major, a Conservative, said: "Over four decades, Harold Wilson was at the center of British public life. From the time of his appointment to Cabinet at the age of 31, he served his country diligently and loyally."
        Tony Blair, the new Labor leader who hopes to emulate Mr. Wilson's feat of leading the party to victory after more than a decade in opposition, said he had implanted "a deep sense of modern vision for the country."
        Mr. Wilson was that rarest of political creatures -- a Labor leader who could actually win elections. He won four out of five general elections and occupied No. 10 Downing Street for nearly eight years in the 1960's and 1970's, a run surpassed this century in peacetime only by Margaret Thatcher's 11 1/2 years.
        He was not a man of the hour or for all seasons. There was no air of destiny about him. The ringing inspirations of Sir Winston Churchill and the patrician visions of Harold Macmillan were not his style. He was rotund, provincial, resolutely middle-class, studiously ambiguous and sometimes wavering in his opinions.
        But in an era of precipitous decline for Britain and its once-global empire, Harold Wilson was a fixture on the political scene for 30 years, a solid workingman's socialist in a rumpled ready-to-wear suit and his trademark Gannex mackintosh.
        As leader of the Laborites for 13 years and as Prime Minister for nearly eight -- from 1964 to 1970 and again from 1974 to 1976 -- the silver-haired, pipe-smoking northerner was a consummate British politician: tenacious, shrewd, manipulative, a blend of homespun tastes, acid wit and pragmatic, often shifting policies.
        A brilliant Oxford-educated economist and the boy wonder of British politics after World War II, Mr. Wilson was first elected to Parliament in 1945 at the age of 29. At 31 he became Britain's youngest Cabinet minister since the 18th century; at 46 he was the opposition leader and at 48 the Prime Minister.
        His adversaries regarded him as crude, ambitious, indecisive and dangerously unpredictable, a loner who seemed to lack ideals or clear-cut ideologies beyond a commitment to his own political survival.
        But to his admirers, he was the symbol of an emerging middle-class Briton and the dominant figure in a struggle to hold his party and his country together during years of painful adjustment to contracting British influence abroad and economic corrosion at home.
        Besides an inflation rate that soared to 25 percent and widespread labor tensions, he faced an uprising in Northern Ireland, a breakaway regime in Rhodesia, a resurgence of nationalism in Scotland and Wales and deep uncertainties over Britain's entry into the European Union, then known as the European Common Market.
        Mr. Wilson sent troops to Northern Ireland to no avail. He imposed economic sanctions on the white-minority regime in Rhodesia, as colonial Zimbabwe was known, to no effect. In one of his few foreign-policy achievements, he engineered a national referendum in 1975 that ratified British membership in the Common Market.
        One of his most notable achievements was keeping British troops out of the war in Vietnam. He resisted blandishments from President Lyndon B. Johnson to enter the conflict, but in an uneasy compromise that drew a furious response from the left wing and youth movements at home, gave verbal support to American involvement there.
        Critics were quick to point out that his position on British membership in the European Common Market had flipflopped over the years. He favored it when he was Prime Minister in 1969, then vigorously opposed it two years later when he was out of office and polls showed membership to be unpopular. When he returned to office, he reversed himself again.
        "He switched sides on great issues with breathtaking brass," one critic once said.
        To those who attacked his accommodations, Mr. Wilson replied: "I'm not doctrinaire, I just want to get on with the job."
        While he did not halt his nation's economic decline, he jawboned labor unions to restrain wage demands, reduced Government spending, imposed limited price controls and then managed to keep social and industrial tensions at bay.
        As leader of the Labor Party, Mr. Wilson was regarded as a masterful infighter and perhaps the only politician capable at that time of holding together its fractious coalition of social democrats, trade unionists and doctrinaire leftists. He himself hovered elusively somewhere between left and center, a hard-to-hit moving target.
        His resignation on March 16, 1976 -- three years before the next scheduled election and a few days after his 60th birthday -- stunned his party and the nation.
        There had been no apparent scandal-in-the-making to force him out. His health appeared to be good, and by all accounts he stood on solid political ground. He said he wanted to make way for new leaders and new ideas, but the explanation seemed incomplete.
        The enigma remained. He retired to a back bench in Parliament and a back seat in politics, addressing public issues only occasionally.
        Strange controversies bubbled up from time to time. In 1986 came the most bizarre story of all, allegations in the memoirs of a former counterespionage agent, Peter Wright, that the British counterintelligence agency, M.I.5, had tried to destabilize the Wilson Government.
        Mrs. Thatcher told the Commons in 1987 that an internal M.I.5 inquiry had determined that no right-wing faction inside the security service had tried any such thing. But rumors of such a campaign against Mr. Wilson continued for years.
        Several months after his departure as Prime Minister, Queen Elizabeth II named him a Knight Companion of the Most Noble Order of the Garter, a nonhereditary knighthood that is one of Britain's highest honors. He held onto his seat in the House of Commons until June 1983, when he was awarded the life peerage of a barony and took the name Baron Wilson of Rievaulx, after a ruined abbey in Yorkshire, and moved to the upper house.
        The immense popularity of Harold Wilson had been rooted in his plain style as well as in his flexible politics. A short man with a pale face and the flat accents of his native Colne Valley in Yorkshire, he had no affected public-school stammer, no stable of subtle literary illusions.
        He belonged to no clubs, hated cocktail parties and rarely invited people to dinner. He was fond of HP sauce. He preferred beer to wine, soccer to concerts and whodunits to nonfiction.
        "I haven't read Karl Marx," he once admitted. "I got stuck on that footnote on page 2."
        He and his wife, the former Gladys Mary Baldwin, were married in 1940, and had two sons, Robin and Giles. In London, the Wilsons eschewed pomp and ceremony whenever possible and seemed out of place at Downing Street. After his return to office in 1974, Mr. Wilson did not even take up official residence there, preferring to stay in his own house a few blocks away. His life style regularly inspired satirists.
        Private Eye, a satiric magazine, for a time ran a weekly column called "Mrs. Wilson's Diary" that detailed a lower middle-class life at 10 Downing Street. One thrust at a Cabinet lunch noted: "We had prepared two large caldrons of savory mutton hash and two jumbo-sized syrup puddings kindly supplied by the London Co-op."
        James Harold Wilson was born on March 11, 1916, in Huddersfield, in the north of England, a grim industrial region of poverty and radical politics. His father, Herbert, was an industrial chemist and a lifelong radical who took much of the credit for his son's political views. His mother, the former Ethel Sedden, was a counselor for the British equivalent of the Girl Scouts.
        A scholarly, bookish youth with a prodigious memory, he attended schools in Huddersfield and Cheshire, received a scholarship to Oxford and graduated with the highest honors in philosophy, politics and economics. At 21, he became a lecturer in economics at Oxford and an assistant to Lord Beveridge, the architect of Britain's welfare state.
        With the outbreak of World War II, the young teacher volunteered for the army but was instead drafted by the Government into civil-service ranks to take advantage of his skills as an economist. He served in the Ministry of Fuel and Power and on the Anglo-American Coal Commission and produced a statistical digest of British mining that was published in 1945 as a book, "New Deal for Coal."
        Entering politics in 1945, he dropped his first name and, as Harold Wilson, was elected to a seat in the House of Commons in the Labor landslide that ousted Churchill. He represented Ormskirk, near Liverpool.
        Two years later, he was appointed President of the Board of Trade, the British equivalent of Commerce Secretary, in the Government of Clement Attlee, becoming Britain's youngest Cabinet Minister since William Pitt became Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1792.
        Mr. Wilson's rise through Labor Party ranks was swift, and on the way he acquired the reputation for wheeling and dealing that remained throughout his political life.
        In the opposition, he became Labor's spokesman on finance and foreign affairs, and in 1960 he decided to run against his good friend, Hugh Gaitskell, for the leadership of the floundering party. Amid cries of betrayal, Mr. Wilson was overwhelmingly defeated. But in 1963, after Mr. Gaitskell's death, he won the leadership in a fight with George Brown, who was supported by the labor unions.
        The general election of 1964 was pivotal. Confronted by crippling miners' strikes and spreading economic problems, the Conservatives, led by Sir Alec Douglas-Home, lost a five-seat majority to the Labor Party and surrendered the reins of Government to Mr. Wilson, ending 13 years of class-bound Tory rule.
        Mr. Wilson moved swiftly to end an epidemic of strikes and get the nation back to work. He also raised pensions, froze rents, announced subsidies on certain food staples, moved to cut profit margins and mortgage rates and imposed price controls on many items.
        In his first term, Mr. Wilson made three decisions that proved popular but of dubious merit. He refused to devalue the pound, kept troops in the Far East and, in 1965, said he would never use force against white Rhodesians, insisting that economic sanctions alone would undercut the rebel regime of Ian Smith.
        In 1966, he called a general election and managed to widen his party's majority to 100 seats in the House of Commons. In the next four years he reversed many of his first-term policies, devaluing the pound and withdrawing troops from the Far East.
        With unemployment rising, he fell into conflict with labor unions, called an election for June 1970 and, despite polls forecasting a Labor victory, lost to the Conservatives, whose leader, Edward Heath, became Prime Minister.
        But four years later, in February 1974, when a miners' strike against Mr. Heath's compulsory wage controls precipitated another election, Mr. Wilson staged a remarkable political comeback, and Labor formed a minority government. After consolidating his forces, he called for another election in October 1974 and won a narrow majority.
        When he resigned unexpectedly in 1976, commentators noted that he had solidified British membership in the Common Market, kept the nation in NATO despite requisite defense cuts, maintained Britain's influence in a rapidly changing Commonwealth and preserved a strong relationship with the United States.
        Domestically, his Government made a deep impact in changing the system of secondary education and expanding higher education. He was proudest of his "brainchild," the Open University for continuing education, which by the 1980's was awarding more degrees than Oxford and Cambridge combined.
        Even his opponents conceded that it would be difficult to imagine British politics without him. "He has by cautious and conservative leadership restored the basis for government by consent," said The New Statesman. "He has come closer than any politician in his time to an instinctive understanding of the British people."
        Correction:  May 31, 1995, Wednesday
        An obituary on Thursday about former Prime Minister Harold Wilson, who first joined the British Cabinet at age 31, misstated the date of the first Cabinet appointment of William Pitt, the youngest British Cabinet member ever. Pitt became Chancellor of the Exchequer at age 23 in 1782, not 1792.
      