
        Ron Richardson, who won a Tony Award in 1985 for his performance as Jim in the Broadway musical "Big River: the Adventures of Huckleberry Finn," died yesterday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 43 and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y.
        The cause was AIDS, said his manager, Michael Bolanos.
        When he played Jim, the runaway slave in the Roger Miller-William Hauptman adaptation of Mark Twain's "Huckleberry Finn," Mr. Richardson was praised for the tragic resonance of his acting and his powerful singing. His deep-timbred voice seemed as deep as the Mississippi, the river that carried him and Huck Finn (Daniel H. Jenkins) on their journey. Together, the two elevated the songs "River in the Rain" and "Muddy Water" into Mississippi anthems.
        Mr. Richardson's approach to Jim was heroic. "When I play Jim," he told an interviewer from The New York Times, "I am playing my grandfather, and my mother swears I look like him as a young man. He was born a free man, but his father and mother were slaves. He was very strong, and very majestic."
        "Majestic" was, in fact, a word often used to describe Mr. Richardson on the stage. For his performance in "Big River," he received a Tony as best supporting actor in a musical; he also won a Drama Desk award.
        Later he toured in "Big River," in 1988 playing his role in Japan, with a Japanese cast. He sang in English but spoke his lines in Japanese, learning the dialogue phonetically, with the help of a Japanese coach.
        Mr. Richardson was born in West Philadelphia on Jan. 27, 1952. His father was a laborer in the meat-packing industry and his mother operated a beauty parlor in their home for more than 30 years. From the age of 4, he sang in a neighborhood church; he went from high school choirs to performances in dinner theater musicals, taking time to study voice and music composition.
        In the early 1970's he appeared in and around Philadelphia in "Showboat," "Camelot" and "Man of La Mancha." When he was 25, he played "Sportin' Life" in the Houston Grand Opera production of "Porgy and Bess." Later he had a small role on Broadway in "Timbuktu!," and he was in the Los Angeles production of "Dreamgirls."
        In 1985, he was hired for "Big River" after auditioning and being called back five times. The musical opened on April 25, several weeks before the deadline for Tony nominations. For Mr. Richardson, the show (directed by Des McAnuff) was a life-changing experience, and it remained the high point of his career.
        After playing Jim, he appeared in the musical "Oh, Kay!" and at the American Place Theater in Leslie Lee's "Ground People," in which he played the iron-handed leader of a minstrel troupe. In London he starred as Husky Miller in the Old Vic revival of "Carmen Jones." He also toured with a concert act, performing in Moscow, St. Petersburg and Riga, Latvia. In 1993, he appeared on Broadway in a limited engagement of "The Boys Choir of Harlem and Friends" and also took part in "Summer in Nagasaki," a peace concert in Japan.
        In addition to his father and mother, William F. and Amanda Richardson, he is survived by two brothers, the Rev. W. Franklyn Richardson (the pastor of Grace Baptist Church in Mount Vernon) and Raymond Lloyd Richardson; a sister, Vickilyn Reynolds, and three nephews and one niece.
      