
        Eli Wilentz, whose Eighth Street Bookshop became a a literary nerve center of Greenwich Village in the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday at the Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 76, and lived at 17 West Eighth Street, above what is now a trendy shoe store and was once the touchstone of a generation.
        The cause was cancer, said his son Sean.
        At a time when "beat" poets and writers were emerging, the Eighth Street Bookshop was the very hearthside of hip, the cynosure of cool.
        The "three floors of books," as the slogan described it, was more than a place to buy books. To a generation of struggling young poets and writers, the store, which Mr. Wilentz and his brother, Ted, opened in 1947 on the southeast corner of Eighth and Macdougal and moved across the street in 1965 to the five-story building at No. 17, was at once club, post office, employment agency and bank.
        Struggling poets knew that Mr. Wilentz would let them use the store as a mail drop, that he might hire them as clerks or even lend them money.
        In time he might even publish their work, through Corinthian Books, an adventurous publishing company that served as a logical extension of a store specializing in books too avant garde for other stores to carry, or too obscure.
        (Before a financial dispute led to a bitter split in which Mr. Wilentz got the store and his brother got the publishing company, Mr. Wilentz, an American history buff, took delight in publishing a series known as "The American Experience," which reprinted long-forgotten historical tracts like Ethan Allan's memoirs.)
        The English majors who flocked to the store from Columbia, City College, New York University and elsewhere knew that the person riffling through a book in the next aisle could be W. H. Auden, E. E. Cummings, Marianne Moore, Kenneth Patchen, Delmore Schwartz, Michael Harrington, Jack Kerouac, or perhaps Allen Ginsberg, Gregory Corso or Leroi Jones.
        For all of the store's reputation as a gathering place of poets, artists and free-floating intellectuals, Mr. Wilentz never forgot that what attracted them and kept them coming back was books. It was no accident that the store's 60,000 titles included the city's largest selection of poetry. And long before "existentialism" was fashionable, Mr. Wilentz had the works of Jean-Paul Sartre and Albert Camus in stock.
        What did seem a bit surprising was that Elias S. Wilentz's initial and abiding artistic bent ran not to literature but to sculpture.
        The son of a prosperous New York furrier, he grew up in the Bronx and studied for two years at City College before serving in the Army Air Corps in World War II. He seems to have gone into the book business largely because an opportunity opened up to take over what had been a Womrath's book rental store.
        Mr. Wilentz, who was in the vanguard of the paperback revolution, stocking a wide selection at a time when other booksellers were trying to shun them, was even bolder than that. His wares included roughly printed political tracts and cultural manifestos -- anything, as he once noted, held together by staples.
        It was a measure of his standing in the New York literary world that after fire gutted his underinsured store in 1976, scores of the city's leading poets, writers and editors held a fund-raising tribute, among them Mr. Ginsberg, who became so overwrought that he composed and delivered an extemporaneous poem about the fire , finding it so pleasing that he ran around afterward trying to find if anyone had taped it.
        The store reopened, but in 1979, when it became apparent that his children had no interest in continuing with it, Mr. Wilentz closed it.
        Since then he had devoted himself to historical interests, writing on education, and sculpting.
        Mr. Wilentz, a long-time resident of Brooklyn Heights, maintained what amounted to a second life as an expert on New York City history, conducting walking tours and fighting to preserve historic literary landmarks, like buildings associated with Walt Whitman. He was a member of the New York City Art Commission from 1974 to 1977.
        In addition to his brother, of New Haven, Mr. Wilentz, whose first marriage, to Jeanne Campbell, ended in divorce, is survived by his wife, Pamela Endacott, a sculptor; three children from his first marriage, Sean, of Princeton, N.J., who teaches American history at Princeton, Eileen, a veterinarian in New Hartford, Conn., and Philip, of Brooklyn Heights, who works as a production director for Penguin USA; a daughter, Grace, of Manhattan, from his second marriage; a sister, Lillian Jacobs of Great Neck, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      