
        David Herbert, the flamboyant English aristocrat who reigned for half a century over the British expatriate colony in Morocco, died there on Monday. He was 86.
        The cause was kidney failure, Nourdine Jdaoudi, a longtime household employee, said yesterday.
        Although Mr. Herbert, the second son of the 15th Earl of Pembroke, had a fling as a movie actor in his youth, once served as secretary to the German financier Otto Kahn in Berlin, painted society portraits in New York during Prohibition and later emerged as an interior decorator, his chief occupation was giving parties.
        The man who once boasted that he had never dined alone, had no trouble assembling guests. He had a talent for friendship and a string of admirers that included Cecil Beaton, Nancy Mitford, Sybil Thorndike, Diana Cooper, Tallulah Bankhead, Barbara Hutton, Ian Fleming, Winston Churchill, Paul Bowles and Malcolm Forbes.
        Mr. Beaton, who shared a house with Mr. Herbert, once summed up his appeal, describing him as a "most delightful, gay, alive and witty personality and companion."
        For two generations of Tangerines, as the expatriates styled themselves, the center of social life in Tangier was the Pink House, Mr. Herbert's residence at Djamaa el Mokra on the western outskirts of the city. Situated on a small hill known as The Mountain, it was the scene of virtually daily lunch and dinner parties. There, Mr. Herbert presided, a green fez on his head, a parrot on his shoulder and a ransom of rings on his fingers.
        In his student days at Eton as well as his lush days in Tangier, Mr. Herbert's stylish life inspired characters in romans a clef, among them Daisy Montgomery in Lord Berners's 1937 public school spoof, "The Girls of Radcliff Hall," and the remittance man Randolph Norman in Ted Morgan's 1981 autobiographical work, "Rowing Towards Eden."
        Mr. Herbert himself wrote three anecdotal volumes, including "Second Son" (1972) and "Engaging Eccentricities" (1990).
        In the third, "Relations and Revelations" (1992), he explained his flair for the fantasy life: "If you grow up and want to be an actor but cannot act, you must satisfy this passion by being permanently on stage in everyday life."
        He is survived by a sister, Lady Patricia, the Dowager Vicountess Hambleden, a lady in waiting to Elizabeth, the Queen Mother.
      