
        Alton Meister, a biochemist whose research became part of the battle against AIDS and other diseases, died on Thursday at the Mediplex rehabilitation center in Stamford, Conn. He was 72.
        His wife said the cause was the combined complications of a stroke he suffered last year in New Zealand and infections he picked up during interim treatment at New York Hospital, where her husband had been chief biochemist for many years.
        Dr. Meister graduated from Harvard and received his medical degree from Cornell Medical College in New York, and served as chairman of the college's biochemistry department for 35 years.
        By the time he joined Cornell in 1957, Dr. Meister, who began his research at the National Institutes of Health in 1945 and later spent a year at Tufts, had already established a lasting reputation. His "Biochemistry of Amino Acids," a two-volume work published in 1957, is still considered the standard in its field.
        In the arcane world of science, Dr. Meister was something of an anomaly, a specialist in pure science with a flair for the practical applications of his work.
        Like a quarryman who designs cathedrals in his head, Dr. Meister had a feel for implications, most notably his suspicion that glutathione, an amino acid compound whose underlying chemistry he had studied thoroughly, could play an important role in the body's immune system.
        "He had an instinct," is the way Dr. Herbert Tabor, a laboratory chief at the National Institutes for Health, put it yesterday.
        Dr. Meister's instinct was partly confirmed when it was discovered that people infected with the AIDS virus have reduced levels of glutathione, a ubiquitous compound of three amino acids that Dr. Meister found protects cells from oxidation by absorbing oxygen.
        As a result, Dr. Meister helped transform glutathione into a drug that has shown some initial promise of reducing the growth of the AIDS virus in laboratory tests. Clinical trials are continuing, but not even Dr. Meister believed that the key to AIDS would be as simple as replacing depleted supplies of glutathione.
        "AIDS is simply not the result of glutathione deficiency," he said when the laboratory findings were reported in 1991.
        Whatever the results of that particular line of attack, Dr. Meister's research into glutathione has already broadened science's understanding of the immune system.
        He is survived by his wife, Leonora, of Woodbury, Conn.; two sons, Jonathan, of Philadelphia, and Kenneth, of Wilton, Conn., five grandchildren and a sister, Dr. Anna Burton of Fort Lee, N.J.
      