
        John N. Hazard, one of the foremost authorities on the legal system of the Soviet Union and a teacher at Columbia University for 48 years, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86.
        The cause was cancer, relatives said.
        Professor Hazard, who wrote several widely used textbooks and studies of Soviet law and public administration, was the Nash Professor of Law at Columbia Law School. He was made a professor emeritus in 1977 but continued to teach until last fall.
        He was a founder in 1946 of the Russian Institute at Columbia, now the Harriman Institute, the first academic center in the United States dedicated to Russian-Soviet studies. He was also appointed professor of public law.
        During World War II, he helped to negotiate the lend-lease agreement with the Soviet Union, and as an expert on Soviet law, he advised Robert Jackson, a United States Supreme Court Justice, in the prosecution of Nazi leaders at the Nuremberg trials.
        A native of Syracuse, John Newbold Hazard received a bachelor of arts degree from Yale in 1930 and graduated from Harvard Law School in 1934. He received a doctorate in juristic science from the University of Chicago in 1939.
        His career as a Sovietologist began shortly after his graduation from law school, when he became the first American to study Soviet law at the Moscow Juridical Institute. Relatively few American scholars were interested in Soviet affairs at that time.
        A law school classmate, Judge Whitman Knapp of the United States District Court for Southern New York, yesterday recalled seeing Mr. Hazard off as he boarded the liner Europa to sail for Europe. "I remember thinking, 'My God, the guy's nuts,' " Judge Knapp said. "Moscow in those days was on the other side of the world."
        His days in Moscow made Mr. Hazard an early expert on housing shortages in the Soviet Union, a subject he explored in a 1940 study published by the Yale University Press. He received a certificate from the Juridical Institute in 1937, and when World War II began he advised the United States Government on Soviet affairs.
        After founding the Russian Institute with four other scholars, he developed and taught courses at Columbia that compared American and Soviet bureaucracies as well as their legal and political institutions.
        He continued to teach even after his retirement in 1977, and his courses attracted growing numbers of students, particularly during the rise and fall of Mikhail S. Gorbachev and the collapse of the Soviet Union.
        Professor Hazard lectured at universities in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. He belonged to several organizations of legal scholars and was a former president of the International Academy of Comparative Law.
        He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Susan; two sons, John, of New York City, and William, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; two daughters, Nancy, of Greenfield, Mass., and Barbara, of Frankfurt, Germany, and six grandchildren.
      