
        Morarji Desai, a crusty puritan who sprang from obscurity and imprisonment to become the Prime Minister of India's first non-Congress Party Government in 1977 and to usher in some of the country's most momentous political changes, died today in Bombay. He was 99.
        Mr. Desai was a member of a tiny community of Brahmans in western India. He was feared for his acerbic tongue and unflinching refusal to compromise.
        During his two years in office, centrist and right-wing groups merged in New Delhi and formed governments in as many as seven important states in northern, central and eastern India, in some of them for the first time in 40 years.
        These victories represented the first major erosion of popular support for the Congress Party in those regions, a trend that has continued to grow in the last 18 years as regional and other opposition parties have gained strength.
        Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao's Government tonight announced a national week of mourning for India's elder statesman.
        Many political leaders and others, foes as well as former colleagues, spoke of him as among the last titans of India's independence movement, which was led by Mohandas K. Gandhi.
        At his 99th birthday in February, Mr. Desai appeared feeble but alert, surprised to find himself at the center of national attention, posing with politicians and his grandchildren for photographers.
        But last month he was admitted to a private hospital after suffering a blood clot in the brain.
        Although he appeared to respond to treatment, doctors said his condition had deteriorated on Sunday with a fall in blood pressure and breathing problems. Early this morning, his condition became critical. Mr. Desai's only son, Kantibhai, and his grandchildren were at his side when he died.
        "He was a very rare person," said Lal Kishen Advani, the president of the right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party, which had merged with two other parties, including a Socialist faction, to form Mr. Desai's Janata Party in 1977.
        Janata formed the first Government not led by the Congress Party since India won independence from Britain in 1947.
        In terms of integrity, Mr. Advani, Mr. Desai's Information and Broadcasting Minister, said the former Prime Minister "stood head and shoulders above all."
        The Janata Party was organized after opposition leaders, including Mr. Desai and Mr. Advani, were released after serving nearly two years in prison during the state of emergency declared by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The opposition leaders quickly joined forces.
        At the first public meeting after a ban on the opposition figures was lifted, on the edge of the old walled city of Delhi, Mr. Desai, then 81, urged Indians to punish what he described as Mrs. Gandhi's dictatorship.
        Campaigning on a platform of restoring human rights and freedom and appealing to popular outrage about forced sterilizations, Mr. Desai and his associates inflicted the most crushing defeat for the Congress Party.
        Mr. Desai tried to accommodate different political groups in forming national policy, but ultimately found the task of reconciling them beyond his capacity. He found foreign policy an easier job.
        He sought to revise Mrs. Gandhi's tilt toward the Soviet Union and proclaimed a policy of "genuine nonalignment." He visited President Carter in Washington and welcomed him to India in 1978.
        He sent his Foreign Minister to China to improve relations between the two countries, which had been frozen since their border conflict in 1962. Mr. Desai also sought better relations with India's old foe and neighbor, Pakistan, and was later awarded Pakistan's highest civilian award for his efforts at reconciliation.
        At one point Mr. Desai, a tough campaigner for India's self-interest, bluntly told a reporter that Washington's efforts to force India to sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty were hypocritical.
        "That reflects a double standard," he said. "You have the capacity to destroy the world and you do not do anything about that, but you want to put pressure on us."
        Despite a spartan diet of dried and fresh fruits, milk and orange juice, his capacity for work was enormous: he would be up at 4 every morning, spend an hour in yoga and meditation before tackling the business of the day. Health specialists described him at the time as having the alertness and physical strength of a 50-year-old man.
        Sharp differences within the governing party surfaced with rifts between Mr. Desai and his Home Affairs Minister, Charan Singh. Ultimately Mr. Singh secretly allied himself with Mrs. Gandhi, won members of the Desai faction over and finally toppled Mr. Desai in 1979.
        But Mr. Singh's Government was short-lived. Mrs. Gandhi withdrew support from him, forced new elections and returned to power with a campaign that called for "a Government that works."
        Morarji Desai was born in February 1896, the son of a schoolteacher, in the village of Bhadeli near Surat, a port city in Gujarat. He went to school in Gujarat and later moved to Bombay, where he studied physics and mathematics.
        He married Gajraben Desai at 15. She died several years ago. Of their five children, two died young.
        In 1918 he was appointed to the provincial civil service, but resigned his job as an administrator in 1930 to join the independence movement.
        He was arrested several times for his role in the freedom campaign, including a three-year spell in prison from 1942 to 1945. During those years Mr. Desai built the reputation of a sharp disciplinarian who frowned on "wrong habits and vices" and developed a lifelong commitment to an exotic medical regime, including drinking his own urine regularly.
        Regarding abstinence as the only proper method of birth control, he renounced sex after his fifth child was born.
        In his autobiography, "The Story of my Life," Mr. Desai summed up his beliefs:
        "I do not consider anyone inferior to me or myself superior to anybody. Ever since I became an adult, I have been convinced that one should form no habits except the habit of telling the truth. All other habits enslave one and make one dependent and weak."
        After India became independent in 1947, Mr. Desai rose steadily in the political hierarchy, becoming Chief Minister of Bombay State (now Maharashtra), where he made his mark as a ruthless administrator and for his imposition of prohibition, which was later lifted.
        He was appointed national Commerce and Industry Minister under Nehru. He resigned in 1964 as part of a Congress Party shake-up and made party history when he forced a contest for the Prime Ministership in 1966 on the death of Nehru's successor, Lal Bahadur Shastri.
        Indira Gandhi, Nehru's daughter, won that election but brought Mr. Desai into her Cabinet as Deputy Prime Minister in charge of finance. Sharp differences between the two leaders, especially over the nationalization of private banks, forced Mr. Desai's resignation and a split in the Congress Party.
      