
        Gunter Guillaume, the East German spy whose unmasking in 1974 forced the resignation of the West German Chancellor, Willy Brandt, died on Monday at his home near Berlin, a friend of the family said yesterday. He was 68.
        Mr. Guillaume served seven and a half years in a West German prison for espionage before being released in exchange for eight captured West German, American, and British spies in October 1981. He was later decorated with the Order of Karl Marx by Erich Honecker, the East German Communist leader who fell just before the Berlin wall came down in 1989.
        Gunter and Christel Guillaume, his first wife, were sent in 1956 as "moles" of the East German intelligence service to West Germany, under their real names. Mr. Guillaume joined the Social Democratic Party in Frankfurt and began working his way up the party ranks, as instructed.
        When Mr. Brandt became Chancellor in 1969, Mr. Guillaume was taken on as the aide responsible for government liaison with the labor unions. Bonn's security services found information in their files suggesting that he might be a Communist agent, but did not pursue the leads until 1973.
        Even though they had Mr. Guillaume under investigation, they did not warn Mr. Brandt against taking him that summer, as his sole aide, on a vacation trip to Norway. Mr. Guillaume later said that he filled an entire briefcase with secret documents, including letters to the Chancellor from President Richard M. Nixon about the NATO alliance's nuclear strategy, and managed to slip it to an East German contact in Sweden on his way back to Bonn.
        The West Germans finally arrested the Guillaumes in April 1974, and Mr. Brandt, taking responsibility for "negligence," resigned the next month.
        After declaring that "I am a citizen and an officer of the German Democratic Republic," admitting his loyalty to East Germany, Mr. Guillaume was sentenced in December 1975 to a 13-year prison term, and his wife was sentenced to 8 years. Wolfgang Vogel, an East German lawyer with secret service connections, later arranged their separate releases in exchange for Western spies captured by Communist countries.
        After the reunification of Germany in 1990, Mr. Guillaume was immune from further prosecution. But in 1993 he testified at the trial of Markus Wolf, on charges of treason to the country that had absorbed his own, in the same underground courtroom where he had been convicted.
        "The two men I was happiest to serve were Willy Brandt and Markus Wolf," Mr. Guillaume said then.
        In recent years, he was in poor health, having suffered a stroke in 1993. A friend said that he had remarried and would be buried in Berlin on April 19.
      