
        Dr. Carlton Everett Schwerdt, a virologist who made a major contribution in the fight against polio, died on March 25 at Stanford University Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 78 and lived in Palo Alto.
        The cause was leukemia, said the Stanford University Medical Center.
        Dr. Schwerdt, a native of Tenafly, N.J., joined the Stanford faculty as an associate professor in 1956 and was promoted to full professor of microbiology and immunology in 1961. He reached emeritus status in 1982 but remained active until recently as a teacher and mentor to students.
        He carried out polio research in the 1940's and 1950's as a research associate in chemistry at Stanford and then as a member of the Virus Laboratory of the University of California at Berkeley.
        While still an undergraduate at Stanford, he assisted his biochemistry professor, Hubert S. Loring, in isolating, with at least 80 percent purity, the virus responsible for polio, or infantile paralysis.
        He was a freshly minted Ph.D. in biochemistry when he and Dr. Loring announced the breakthrough in 1947 after a three-year effort. They thus opened the door to further experimentation and the development of an impurities-free vaccine against the crippler of children and young adults.
        They introduced a crude vaccine later that year, and Dr. Schwerdt went on to improve the technique and product at Berkeley. In 1953, the university's virus laboratory reported that Dr. Schwerdt and Dr. Howard L. Bachrach had developed a method to purify the polio virus and had photographed it in pure form for the first time. Dr. Schwerdt and Dr. Fred L. Schaffer crystallized pure virus in 1955 and purified all three major known strains of polio virus in 1957.
        Dr. Schwerdt's work thus helped to insure the safety of the polio vaccine announced by Dr. Jonas Salk in 1955. In addition, he contributed research on other viruses, including measles.
        Dr. Schwerdt is survived by his wife, Lorrie Barnes-Schwerdt; a son, Christopher, of Catonsville, Md.; two daughters, Elizabeth Tilles of Del Mar, Calif., and Karen Janssen of Corvallis, Ore.; six grandchildren, and three stepchildren.
      