
        J. Peter Grace, the outspoken and at times controversial industrialist who headed a major American company longer than any other chief executive, died of cancer on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 81 and lived in Manhasset, L.I.
        Although his company, W. R. Grace, always came first, Mr. Grace was extraordinarily active in public and religious circles, and in his younger days was a star athlete.
        A leading layman of the Roman Catholic Church, Mr. Grace became widely known to the public from 1982 to 1984 for his service as head of President Ronald Reagan's Private Sector Study on Cost Control in the Federal Government, which came to be known as the Grace Commission.
        In that role, Mr. Grace, a longtime critic of what he regarded as profligate Government spending, directed a group of about 2,000 business executives to come up with ways to root out waste and inefficiency in the Federal Government.
        "I have 9 children, 12 grandchildren, and I'm concerned about their freedom," Mr. Grace said in a 1983 interview. "We've got to get this growth rate and the outlays down. It can't go on this way. If this deficit goes to $1 trillion a year, our freedoms are gone."
        While his views on the evils of the Federal deficit have gained currency over time, from time to time Mr. Grace's actions and opinions on other matters generated a furor.
        There was a severe public reaction, for instance, when W. R. Grace admitted that in the early 1950's that it employed as a consultant a German chemist who was convicted in the Nuremburg war-crimes tribunal.  And Mr. Grace unleashed a firestorm of protest after a 1982 speech in Dallas when he commented that the Federal food stamp program was basically a subsidy for Puerto Ricans. He subsequently apologized.
        Despite his widespread interests, the company that bore his family name was Mr. Grace's enduring passion. For 47 years, Mr. Grace ran W. R. Grace & Company, a $5 billion specialty chemicals and specialized health-care company that his grandfather, William R. Grace, founded in Peru in 1854 as a shipping and trading company. And even when he agreed, reluctantly, to step aside in 1992, he remained an active force as chairman of the company's board.
        In an interview in 1990, when he was 77, Mr. Grace was asked about his retirement plans.
        "I have none," he said.
        Even as his health deteriorated this spring, Mr. Grace fought tenaciously but unsuccessfully to retain control of the company that for more than 140 years always had a member of his family at the top.
        Following the sudden resignation on March 2 of J. P. Bolduc, the man who succeeded him, Mr. Grace and his company were confronted by a group of disgruntled shareholders demanding sweeping changes in the structure and composition of W. R. Grace's board of directors.
        Included in those demands was a requirement that Mr. Grace and a group of longstanding friends and business assocates not stand for re-election to the board at the company's annual meeting on May 11.
        In late March, the company said it would comply with the shareholder demands, but the board did not formally meet to consider the changes until April 6.
        At that meeting, in the W. R. Grace Building in midtown Manhattan, a gravely ill Mr. Grace spoke against the changes, which he called "offensive," and urged the board to resist their being put into effect.
        His stand was completely in character. A short man who spoke with a slight lisp, Mr. Grace once told a reporter: "I am never discouraged. When you get discouraged you ought to pack it in."
        The board did not agree, and the measures were approved. Although he would have stayed on as honorary chairman, Peter Grace's 59-year career at W. R. Grace was over.
        It was a career circumstances did not require he pursue.
        When Joseph Peter Grace was born in Manhasset on May 25, 1913, the family was already wealthy. Young Peter grew up with all the creature comforts and the virtual certainty they would be his for life.
        Yet, after being educated at St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., and at Yale, where he lettered in three sports, in 1936 the 23-year-old took a job in the W. R. Grace mailroom.
        During his early years with the company, Mr. Grace had the chance to indulge his passion for athletics.
        A world-class polo player, in the winters he played goalie at night for the St. Nick's semiprofessional hockey team in New York.
        When his father, Joseph P. Grace, suffered a stroke in 1945, Mr. Grace took over as president and chief executive. During his tenure, Peter Grace engineered and oversaw two separate transformations of the company he inherited.
        From what was originally a Latin American trading, shipping and banking company, he remade the company in the 1950's and 60's into a conglomerate with interests from chemicals to consumer goods.
        But by the mid-1980's, it was clear that W. R. Grace was in too many businesses. And Mr. Grace recruited Mr. Bolduc, his top aide on the Grace Commission, to revamp the company again. Today, W. R. Grace is the world's largest specialty chemical company and a leader in specialized health care.
        Deeply religious throughout his life, Mr. Grace was a founding member of Legatus, an international organization of Catholic chief executives whose mission is to study, live and spread the faith in their professional and personal lives.
        He was also president of the Catholic Youth Organization of the Archdiocese of New York. In 1967, the University of Notre Dame awarded him the Laetare Medal, the highest Catholic honor in the United States.
        Over his life, he served on eight different corporate boards, including Citicorp and Citibank, N.A.
        He was also active in a number of charitable interests, especially those whose activities focused on New York City's disadvantaged youths, a group that includes the Grace Institute, Covenant House and the Inner City Scholarship Fund.
        Mr. Grace is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Fennelly, whom he married in 1941; nine children, J. Peter Grace 3d of Locust Valley, L.I., Dr. William R. Grace of Plandome, N.Y., Michael S. Grace of Far Hills, N.J., Margaret Mary Grace-Shethar of Colorado Springs, Colo., Mary J. Grace of Manhattan, Nora M. O'Donnell of Delray Beach, Fla., Patrick P. Grace of Greenville, S.C., Theresa M. Sears of Manhasset, and Christopher G. Grace of Boca Raton, Fla.; one brother, Charles M. Grace of Santa Monica, Calif.; a sister, Janet M. Grace of Old Westbury, L.I., and 20 grandchildren.
        A funeral mass for Mr. Grace will be celebrated at 10:30 A.M. on Saturday by John Cardinal O'Connor at St. Patrick's Cathedral.
      