
        Philip M. Foisie, who initiated overseas news coverage at The Washington Post as its foreign editor and later served as the executive editor of the Paris-based International Herald Tribune, died on Tuesday at a hospital. He was 73 and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Post reported.
        When Mr. Foisie joined The Post in 1955 as a cable editor, the paper received most of its foreign coverage from the news agencies. It was only in 1957 that the first foreign correspondent headed for London in what The Post described as "a shoestring operation, begun on an experimental basis."
        As foreign editor and then assistant managing editor for foreign news, Mr. Foisie oversaw the opening of 14 foreign bureaus. He saw his staff grow from 1 to 23. Under his guidance, the paper won two Pulitzer Prizes for overseas reports.
        "Phil Foisie was the father of foreign coverage for The Post," said Katharine Graham, the former publisher and now chairwoman of the executive committee of The Washington Post Company.
        Mr. Foisie also supported the creation of the position of ombudsman at The Post. He left in 1981 to fill the newly created position of executive editor of The International Herald Tribune, which was then a joint venture of the Whitney Communications Corporation, The New York Times and The Washington Post. (Today it is owned by The Times and The Post.) During his tenure, the paper expanded into Asia and opened four printing plants outside France, along with its own bureaus on three continents.
        Mr. Foisie left The Tribune in 1987 and for a time worked as a consultant for Helmut Schmidt, the former Chancellor of West Germany, and others. Fluent in Japanese, he also advised the publisher Robert Maxwell when he was contemplating an expansion into Japan.
        He returned to Alexandria in 1989 and became the ombudsman for Stars and Stripes, a newspaper aimed at members of the United States Armed Forces in Europe and Asia. He dealt with questions like military censorship and independent news judgment.
        Born in Seattle, Mr. Foisie was graduated from Harvard University and served as an intelligence officer in World War II.
        Mr. Foisie is survived by his wife, Rita Foisie; three sons, Gregory of Sarnia, Ont., Geoffrey of Manhattan, and Timothy of Alexandria; a daughter, Christina Mundy of Akron, Ohio; two brothers, Jack of Monmouth, Ore., and Keith of Richmond; a sister, Virginia F. Rusk of Athens, Ga., the widow of Dean Rusk, the former Secretary of State; and six grandchildren.
      