
        Richard J. Conners, who spent 50 years in political office in Albany, most recently in the New York State Assembly, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Cohoes, N.Y. He was 85 and a lifelong resident of Albany.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Conners's life, private and political, centered on Albany's North End, specifically the Irish-American neighborhood around Sacred Heart Church. He was easily elected to eight two-year terms in the Assembly, concerning himself with veterans' affairs and the elderly.
        Because of his age and courtly demeanor, he was often referred to as the "dean of the Assembly." In 1983, he became chairman of the newly formed veterans' affairs committee and was a member of committees dealing with real-property taxation, the cities, insurance and the development of tourism, arts and sports.
        He started his legislative career as an alderman on the Albany City Council in 1942, the same year Erastus Corning 2d began his 40-year reign as Mayor of Albany. He represented the same ward his father, Michael F. Conners, had represented in the council in the 1880's.
        After 20 years as an alderman, he was elected Council President, a post he held for 16 years until his election to the Assembly from the 104th District. He was the principal sponsor of legislation to extend the statute of limitations for Vietnam veterans claiming health problems linked to Agent Orange. In accordance with his strong religious beliefs, he opposed both the death penalty and abortion.
        He announced in 1992 that he would not seek a ninth term. At the time, his home was being redrawn out of his district by fellow Democrats who wanted him out of office because of advancing age and health problems. But he was mentor to his successor and the incumbent, John J. McEneny, who was his chief of staff and campaign manager.
        Mr. Conners was educated at Christian Brothers Academy and Albany Business College and headed the insurance brokerage firm founded by his father in 1895.
        He is survived by three daughters, Mary Alice Morgan of Loudonville, N.Y., Margaret Harrigan of Albany, and Maureen C. Moriarity of Pebble Beach, Calif.; a son, Michael F. 2d, an Albany County legislator from the North End who is running for county comptroller, eight grandchildren and one great-grandchild. His wife of 50 years, Margaret Egan Conners, died in 1986.
      