
        Ernest T. S. Walton, an Irish physicist who performed a crucial atom-smashing experiment in 1932 that ushered in a new era of nuclear research, died on Sunday at Belfast City Hospital in Northern Ireland. He was 91.
        Dr. Walton and a colleague, John Douglas Cockcroft, shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1951 for creating the first man-made machine for smashing atoms and using it in experiments from 1927 to 1932 at the Cavendish Laboratory of Cambridge University in England.
        In their most famous experiment, they accelerated protons and bombarded lithium, showing that its nucleus split into two helium particles. The experiment was the first to transmute an atom with artificially accelerated particles. It also demonstrated that mass had been converted to energy, verifying Albert Einstein's equation E = mc2 .
        At the time, the methodology of nuclear physics was mainly observational, and the experiment gave physicists an important new experimental tool. Over the following six decades, particle accelerators have grown vastly in size and cost and have led to many useful applications, including the treatment of cancer with beams of protons or neutrons.
        Dr. Walton and Dr. Cockcroft carried out their experiments under Ernest Rutherford, then the most famous nuclear physicist in Britain. In 1911, he had used natural radioactivity, in the form of alpha particles, in the first man-made nuclear transmutation, converting nitrogen nuclei into oxygen.
        Rutherford called on his young associates to create a powerful particle accelerator, "a million volts in a shoe box." Dr. Walton responded by building several experimental apparatuses, including one that was a forerunner of the betatron accelerator developed in the 1940's and another that was a forerunner of the linear accelerator.
        Using car batteries, putty and parts from gasoline pumps, Dr. Walton and Dr. Cockcroft then built a proton accelerator that reached energies up to 700,000 electron-volts, with Dr. Walton doing most of the practical construction.
        The two physicists sat in the gloom of a tiny wooden shed by the accelerator as it hurled the protons toward the lithium in the crucial experiment, and saw telltale flashes on the screen from the resulting alpha particles.
        Using the same general method, Dr. Walton and Dr. Cockcroft were able to observe nuclear reactions with other light elements, including beryllium, boron, carbon, fluorine and aluminum. They also obtained a sample of deuterium, the heavy isotope of hydrogen that had recently been discovered, and bombarded various targets with deuterium nuclei, creating a new class of nuclear reactions.
        In December 1951, in a presentation address at the Nobel ceremony in Stockholm, Ivar Waller of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said: "The work of Cockcroft and Walton was a bold thrust forward into a new domain of research. Their discoveries initiated a period of rapid development in nuclear physics. Indeed, this work may be said to have introduced a totally new epoch in nuclear research."
        The method they developed is still in use. The protons in the huge Tevatron accelerator at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in Batavia, Ill., start out in a Cockcroft-Walton device, for example.
        Ernest Thomas Sinton Walton was born on Oct. 6, 1903, in Dungarvan, Ireland. He earned a bachelor's degree from the Methodist College in Belfast in 1922, and two master's degrees at Trinity College in Dublin, where he studied classical physics. He went to Cambridge as a research student in nuclear physics and received a Ph.D. in 1931.
        He returned to Trinity College as a fellow and was appointed Erasmus Smith Professor of Natural and Experimental Philosophy in 1946 and chairman of the physics department. He became chairman of the School of Cosmic Physics of the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies in 1952. He studied hydrodynamics, microwaves and other aspects of nuclear physics before retiring in 1974.
        Even after retirement, he was a familiar face in the tearoom at the college, and faculty members said visitors from overseas were astonished to be told that the quiet, unassuming man in the corner was a prominent figure in the history of nuclear physics.
        Dr. Walton received numerous honors, including the Hughes Medal of the Royal Society.
        He is survived by two sons, Alan and Philip, and two daughters, Marian Woods and Jean Clarke. His wife, Winifred, is dead.
      