
        Henry Alonzo Keller, an artist who created the top hat-on-the-bat emblem of the New York Yankees and designed thousands of program covers for football and baseball games, died on Monday in De Land, Fla. He was 87.
        Mr. Keller, who was known as Lon, created the Yankee emblem just after World War II, when the Yankees and other teams began to rely more on advertising to lure a prosperous public suddenly free of the hardships of war. The emblem first appeared on the 1947 spring training roster and was on the cover of the World Series program that year, when the Yankees met the Brooklyn Dodgers.
        In 1951, Mr. Keller overcame a special challenge. First, he designed a World Series program featuring the Yankees and the Dodgers. But the New York Giants spoiled matters by coming from far back to win the National League pennant in a playoff, forcing Mr. Keller back to the drawing board.
        At the height of his career, in the 1940's and 1950's, Mr. Keller's work was familiar to fans of college and professional sports nationwide.
        John Wiebusch, president of the Creative Services Division of N.F.L. Properties, recalled Mr. Keller's pro football paintings as "wonderfully campy," evoking an era when players wore leather helmets and played on fields any horse could dine on.
        Born in Withers, Pa., Mr. Keller graduated from Syracuse University in 1929. He was a freelance artist for several years and began to attract notice when he painted a program cover for the 1932 Thanksgiving Day football game between Cornell and the University of Pennsylvania.
        In 1938, Mr. Keller became chief illustrator for Spencer Marketing, a New York City company that designed programs for sporting events across the country. In more than three decades with Spencer, he created cover designs used for games at more than 300 colleges and universities.
        Mr. Keller was inducted into the New York Sports Museum and Hall of Fame in 1991. He had spent his recent retirement years in Florida.
        His first wife, Esther, died in 1973. His second wife, Sandilla, died in 1983. Surviving are two sons, Jay of Chelsea, Vt., and Kurt of Ridgefield, Conn.; a daughter, Lonna Heffington of De Land, and six grandchildren.
      