
        Marvin Camras, an electrical engineer and inventor widely seen as the father of magnetic tape recording, died on Friday in Evanston, Ill., He was 79.
        The cause was kidney failure, said Sara Fishman, a spokeswoman for the Illinois Institute of Technology, where Mr. Camras worked and taught for more than 50 years.
        Mr. Camras exhibited an aptitude for building electrical devices at an early age. When he was 4 years old he built a flashlight. Three years later, he built a transmitter.
        The basis for Mr. Camras's work in magnetic recording was formed as a student in the late 1930's, when he built a magnetic wire recorder for a cousin who was an aspiring opera singer. A short time later he discovered that making the recordings on magnetic tape greatly eased the process of splicing and storing the recordings.
        The quality of Mr. Camras's work caught the attention of his professors at what is now the Illinois Institute of Technology, and he was offered a job at the Armour Research Foundation, now the I.I.T. Research Institute, to develop his invention.
        In 1944 he was awarded a patent on "method and means of magnetic recording," the forerunner of modern tape recorders.
        Mr. Camras, a longtime resident of Glencoe, Ill., was awarded more than 500 patents for the invention and refinement of technology that is the basis for audio and video recording and computer data storage. Magnetic coatings Mr. Camras developed are now used for tapes in video and cassette recorders, computers and on hard and floppy disks for information storage.
        "Marvin Camras is a legend, and we are all grateful for what he did," said Ray Dolby, chairman of Dolby Laboratories Inc., the manufacturer of noise reduction equipment. "The basic principles he explored and designed are used in the tapes and recorder designs in our machines today."
        In recognition of his achievements, President George Bush awarded Mr. Camras the National Medal of Technology in 1990.
        Although his patents were licensed by more than 100 manufacturers, including General Electric, Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing and Eastman Kodak, Mr. Camras did not realize great wealth from any of his inventions.
        In a career devoted to sound, it is perhaps not surprising that Mr. Camras was also a maker of high-quality violins and violas.
        One of his instruments is used by his son-in-law, Charles Prickler, head of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra's viola section.
        Mr. Camras is survived by his wife, Isabelle Pollak Camras, of Glencoe; four sons, Robert A. of Glencoe, Carl B. of Omaha, Louis E. of Batavia, Ill., and Michael D. of Sunnyvale, Calif; a daughter, Ruth Camras Pikler, of Glencoe, and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 6, 1995, Thursday
        An obituary on June 28 about Marvin Camras, an electrical engineer and inventor, referred incompletely to the invention of magnetic tape recording. While Mr. Camras received a patent in 1944 for "method and means of magnetic recording," related technology existed earlier, especially in Germany. In 1928, Fritz Pfleumer received a German patent for a magnetic recording tape.
      