
        Efrem Kurtz, an American conductor of Russian birth who had been music director of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and orchestras in Stuttgart, Kansas City, Houston, Liverpool and Stuttgart, died on Tuesday at his home in London. He was 94 and had residences in London, Monte Carlo and New York.
        Mr. Kurtz had a broad symphonic and operatic repertory and conducted the premieres of works by Copland, Barber, Walton, Hindemith, Stravinsky, Shostakovich and Khachaturian. But he was most highly regarded for his interpretations of Russian music.
        He was born in St. Petersburg on Nov. 7, 1900, and had his early training at the St. Petersburg Conservatory, where his teachers included the composers Aleksandr Glazunov and Nikolai Tcherepnin. He moved to Riga, Latvia, and then to Germany, where he continued his studies, first at the Stern Conservatory in Berlin and then in Leipzig as a student of Arthur Nikisch.
        In 1921, when poor health forced Nikisch to withdraw from a tour with Isadora Duncan, Mr. Kurtz went in his place. He made his formal conducting debut as Duncan's accompanist in Berlin. He later conducted for Anna Pavlova and for other dancers.
        His first orchestral position was director of the Stuttgart Philharmonic, a job he held from 1924 until 1933. When he learned that he was about to be arrested by the Nazis, he fled to Paris, where he joined the staff of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. He was music director of the troupe until 1941.
        Offered the post of music director of the Kansas City Symphony in 1943, Mr. Kurtz moved to the United States and became an American citizen. He was appointed music director of the Houston Symphony in 1948 and supervised that orchestra until 1954. Thereafter, with the exception of two seasons with the Liverpool Philharmonic, from 1955-57, he was a freelance conductor who performed regularly with European orchestras and opera companiesinto his late 80's. He made many recordings with the London Philharmonia, the New York Philharmonic and other ensembles.
        Mr. Kurtz received many awards, including the Gold Medal of the Bruckner Society of America, the Italian Order of Merit and the Order of the Grand Duke of Luxembourg.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Lynch, and a brother, Edmund, who lives in England.
      