
        The Rev. John Howard Johnson, the founder of a landmark Episcopal church and a Harlem community leader, died yesterday at his home in Sea Cliff, L.I. He was 98.
        Over seven decades, Father Johnson encouraged many young people, black and white and foreign-born, to join the Episcopal ministry. An integrationist, he spoke out against the notion of a "black church," kept in touch with the city's Jewish and Irish communities, and enjoyed the friendship of political and financial leaders.
        He worked in the 1930's to break the pattern of racially segregated employment along 125th Street, Harlem's main shopping street, where white employers had refused to hire black help. In the 1940's, he also was active in a group that sought the integration of major league baseball.
        He was ordained in 1923 by Bishop William T. Manning. At his death, Father Johnson was the senior priest of the Diocese of New York.
        He first worked as an assistant minister with his father, the Rev. John Wesley Johnson, at St. Cyprian's Episcopal Chapel in Manhattan.
        He went to Harlem in 1928 to found St. Martin's Parish on Lenox Avenue over the ruins of Holy Trinity, an 1887 building gutted by fire in 1925. By the late 1940's, he had built St. Martin's, at 122d Street, into a congregation of more than 3,000.
        St. Luke's Church at 141st Street and Convent Avenue merged with St. Martin's in 1942 and Father Johnson was made rector of both. St. Martin's was designated a New York City landmark in 1966. Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia appointed Father Johnson a police chaplain in 1939, and he served as such until 1965.
        Father Johnson, a product of the city's public schools, graduated from Columbia College and earned a master's degree in anthropology at Columbia University. At Columbia, he was a star basketball player, and he played professionally for a time while studying at Union Theological and General Theological seminaries, both in Manhattan.
        Father Johnson is survived by his wife of 42 years, Faith Pullar Johnson, and three sons, Dr. Michael Johnson of Baltimore, the Rev. Johan Johnson of Manhattan and the Rev. David Johnson of Queens, who succeeded him in 1961 as the rector of St. Martin's.
      