
        Charles Irwin Schottland, an authority on social welfare who served as Commissioner of Social Security in the Eisenhower Administration and as the third president of Brandeis University, died on Tuesday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 88.
        He died in his sleep, said Cathey Moody, a family spokeswoman. His wife of 61 years, Edna Greenberg Schottland had died on May 24.
        In World War II, Mr. Schottland served in Europe as a lieutenant colonel on the staff of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, in charge of a section dealing with displaced persons. For his role in repatriating some 5.5 million people he was decorated by the governments of France, Czechoslovakia, Poland, the Netherlands and Greece.
        In 1954, President Eisenhower appointed him to head the social security system. He originated amendments to the Social Security Act of 1935, a cornerstone of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal, to provide disability coverage and lower the minimum age for social-security eligibility to 62 from 65.
        He left his post in 1959 for Waltham, Mass., to become the founding dean of the Florence Heller Graduate School for Advanced Studies in Social Welfare at Brandeis. He started it in the wrestling room of an old gymnasium and nursed it into one of the top schools of its kind in the country.
        He was president of the university from 1970 to 1972, when he returned to teaching as a professor. He again served as dean of the Heller School from 1976 until his move to Arizona in 1979.
        There he taught at Arizona State University in Tucson and headed the Governor's Advisory Council on Aging. He also sat on a state commission that made a comprehensive study of long-term health care.
        He was a past president of the International Council on Social Welfare, which represents public and voluntary agencies from more than 75 countries. He contributed more than 130 articles on social-welfare questions and wrote several books. Among them was "The Social Security Program in the United States" (Appleton, 2d ed., 1970). He edited "The Welfare State: Selected Essays" (Harper, 1967).
        Born in Chicago, Mr. Schottland graduated in political science from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1927. He pursued postgraduate studies at the New York Graduate School of Social Work and the University of Southern California Law School.
        Before his service in World War II, he held posts at the California State Relief Administration and the Children's Bureau at the Department of Labor in Washington. In 1945 he was assistant director for Germany of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. After that, he directed the California State Department of Social Welfare.
        Mr. Schottland is survived by a son, Richard R., and two grandsons.
      