
        Steven R. Fenster, a longtime investment banker and a visiting professor at the Harvard Business School, died yesterday at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute  in Boston. He was 52 and had lived in Cambridge, Mass., since 1991.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Kerin, said.
        Mr. Fenster, one of Wall Street's top experts in corporate restructuring, counted as clients a variety of the United States' leading corporations, including Pan Am, Digital Equipment, International Harvester and the Chase Manhattan Bank.
        As a limited partner in the Blackstone Group in recent years, he worked on Federated Department Stores' takeover of R. H. Macy & Company. And in recent weeks, he had served as a consultant to the real estate investment trust that holds the mortgage on Rockefeller Center.
        He was a native of Belle Harbor, Queens, and was a summa cum laude graduate of Harvard College and a Baker Scholar at the Harvard Business School. He also had a Fulbright Fellowship in the Netherlands, where he studied the relation between econometrics and economic policy for a year. After business school, he worked for three years as one of the "whiz kids" of Secretary Robert S. McNamara in the Defense Department before heading for Wall Street and Lehman Brothers in  1969.
        At Lehman Brothers, he served as head of the financial restructuring and merger and acquisition groups. He was frequently consulted both by other investment bankers and by clients.
        After Lehman Brothers was acquired by the American Express Company in 1984, he taught briefly at the Harvard Business School, worked as a consultant to the  chairman and vice chairman at the Chase Manhattan Corporation, and then served for four years as a managing director at Dillon, Read & Company.
        In 1991, when Mr. Fenster learned of his cancer, colleagues and friends established an endowed chair in his name at the Harvard Business School. Mr. Fenster then decided to teach there, and set up a course in corporate restructuring. He wrote many of the case studies, including cases he had worked  on as an investment banker.
        He was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a fund-raiser for Harvard, and served for many years as a director of American Management Systems  Inc., Bloomberg L.P. and Sealy Inc.
        Charles Rossotti, chairman of American Management Systems, who first met Mr.  Fenster when they worked together at the Defense Department, said that when he and others started his company in 1970, they so valued Mr. Fenster's advice that they made him a special adviser to the board and brought him to meetings even though he was still very junior at Lehman.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Fenster is survived by a daughter, Emily, and a  son, Edward, all of Cambridge, as well as his mother, Esther Hausman Fenster of  Belle Harbor, and his sister, Ruth Block of Baldwin Harbor, L.I.
      