
        Arthur M. Young, who built a helicopter that was the first to be certified for commercial use and the first in which the cockpit was enclosed in a plexiglass bubble, died on Tuesday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 89.
        The cause was cancer, said Andrea Loomis, a friend of the family.
        After spending about 15 years as an inventor tinkering in his barn -- and experiencing numerous crashes and false starts with models he constructed -- Mr. Young put together a helicopter for the Bell Aircraft Company. Using that craft  as a prototype, he and a team of engineers developed the Model 47, which in March 1946 became the first helicopter to be awarded a commercial license by the Civil Aeronautics Administration, the precursor of the Federal Aviation Administration.
        The commercial license cleared the helicopter for flight, allowing Bell to begin production.
        Receiving the certification, Mr. Young said recently, was a "feeling like a combination of a bridegroom at a wedding or a father in a maternity ward."
        About 5,000 of the helicopters were built for commercial and military use. The last was built in 1973.
        Mr. Young was born in Paris on Nov. 3, 1905. His father, Charles Morris Young, was a landscape painter and had gone to France to study art with Impressionist painters.
        After graduating with a degree in mathematics from Princeton University, Mr.  Young decided to try to build a machine that could fly vertically. In 1928 he went to libraries in major cities and the patent office in Washington to do research.
        Such a machine was considered impractical, and Mr. Young set up a small workshop in a barn in Radnor, Pa., where his family had an estate.
        He tried a variety of small models powered by rubber bands, using balsa wood  obtained from toy stores for the rotors and other parts.
        His models crashed often, but Mr. Young noted, "I felt you had to have the crackups before the initial flight, because these crackups were teaching you something."
        By 1941 he had built a model that he could fly in a barn. He developed a stabilizer bar that allowed the craft to hover.
        He got a chance to demonstrate his model before a group of engineers at Bell  in Buffalo on Sept. 3, 1941. The flight went well, and he was introduced to Larry Bell, the company's founder, who provided him with a small group of engineers to work with.
        By 1943, Mr. Young had a helicopter that could fly at 70 miles an hour. He solved the problem of protecting passengers from wind and rain by forming a large piece of plexiglass into a bubble to cover the cockpit.
        After he left Bell in 1947, Mr. Young pursued his interests as a philosopher. He wrote books and set up an organization in Berkeley called the Institute for the Study of Consciousness. He and his second wife, Ruth Forbes Young, decided that the world had become too focused on material things and needed a new spiritual and moral order.
        Mr. Young and his first wife, Priscilla, were divorced. There were no children. He is survived by his second wife and two stepsons, Michael Paine of Boxboro, Mass., and Cameron Paine of Wayne, Pa.
      