
        James J. Shapiro, who helped revolutionize the home sewing industry as a founder and president of the Simplicity Pattern Company, died yesterday at his home at the Carlyle Hotel in Manhattan. He was 85.
        The cause of death was cancer, said his younger brother, Robert M. Shapiro.
        Mr. Shapiro, who was born in Russia in 1909 and brought to the United States as a toddler, was a teen-ager in 1927 when his father, Joseph M. Shapiro, a magazine ad salesman, had an idea that would transform their lives.
        At the time, producing dress patterns for the home sewing market was the exclusive province of McCall's and other women's magazines, including one long-forgotten publication that the elder Mr. Shapiro worked for in New York.
        When the magazine failed, the father, recognizing the strong appeal of its pattern offerings, decided to form an independent pattern company with his elder son as his partner.
        Given the entrenched competition of the women's magazines, the idea was daring, but as implemented by the Shapiros, it had an irresistible appeal.
        For the first time, women interested in making their own clothes did not have to buy a magazine, then send off for a pattern that might cost as much as 25 cents. Instead, they could riffle through an open-top box on the counter of a local store, pay a dime for a pattern and, as often as not, buy the required fabric in the same store.
        As a result, Simplicity, which started off using a single designer and relying on commercial printers, soon dominated the home sewing market. At its peak in the 1970's, the company, which went public in the 1930's, had 4,000 employees, its own paper mill and printing operations, factories in several countries, an extensive catalogue business, 20,000 retail outlets in the United  States alone, and a flourishing sideline supplying patterns to fashion magazines.
        It also sold more than 150 million patterns a year, accounting for more than  half the international home sewing market. It was, in effect, the world's largest dress manufacturer, one whose vast home-based work force actually paid the company for the privilege of turning its patterns into finished garments.
        James Shapiro was given much of the credit for the success.
        "He was a marketing genius," Sidney Greenman, a former Simplicity director and general counsel, said yesterday, noting that it had been Mr. Shapiro who conceived the idea of enlisting chain stores as outlets and who then signed up Woolworth's, a major coup in the 1930's.
        He also created a full-scale education department, which supplied high school home economic departments with equipment so millions of teen-age girls could learn to sew using Simplicity patterns.
        "We were the first to introduce color," Robert Shapiro said. "We were the first to use photography, the first to go to four colors, the first do to a lot  of things."
        Robert Shapiro acknowledged that his brother had been an appropriately demanding executive in a business in which perfection must be standard (women buying patterns cannot try on a dress before buying), but he denied a widespread report that his brother had fired him as company president. "I retired," he said, citing failing eyesight.
        After selling most of his stock in the company, James Shapiro himself retired in 1976, which turned out to be the peak year for the industry. It has shrunk considerably as women have flooded into the work force.
        In addition to his brother, Mr. Shapiro is survived by a daughter, Paula Lund of Jupiter, Fla.; two grandchildren, and five great grandchildren.
      