
        Charles J. Bensley, a businessman who served on the New York City Board of Education and on the board of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation and was active in the United Jewish Appeal and other philanthropic organizations, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 87 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx, and also had a home in Atlantis, Fla.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his stepdaughter, Margery Baker Riker.
        In the 1940's, Mr. Bensley, who also worked as a lawyer, became the president of the City-Wide Petroleum Company, a Bronx-based oil distributing company. He still held that title at his death, Mrs. Riker said. During World War II, he also headed Auto Craft Engineering, also Bronx-based, which made engine parts for bombers.
        Mr. Bensley, a native of the Bronx, was on the Board of Education from 1948 to 1961 and was chairman of its committee on buildings and sites. In an interview in 1958, after serving for more than eight years as chairman, he said nothing had given him more pleasure in that post than the tearing down and rebuilding of old Public School 59, on 57th Street and Second Avenue, which he said had been "a rat warren and a firetrap" when he had been a pupil there.
        In 1960, Mr. Bensley, as the committee chairman, said that since 1948 the school system had undertaken about 325 new school projects at a cost approaching $900 million.
        For part of his time as chairman, critics contended that he allowed waste and extravagance in new school construction. In the 1958 interview, he contended that all he was trying to do was to give the city "adequate, well-designed, sanitary buildings."
        Beginning in 1970, he was a member of the board of the Health and Hospitals Corporation for 14 years. Before joining the board, he had been active in raising funds for hospitals.
        In 1964, Mr. Bensley led a mission of American educators to Israel. The educators made recommendations that formed the basis of the United Jewish Appeal's subsequent program of assistance to education in Israel. He went on to serve for a time as president of the U.J.A.'s Israel Education Fund.
        He was also prominent in another philanthropic group, the Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training.
        Mr. Bensley's parents were immigrants from Ukraine, and he grew up mainly in Manhattan and worked in a gas station as a youth. He never earned a high-school diploma, but in later years he liked to quote Plato and Kipling. In 1931, he received a law degree from St. Lawrence University.
        In 1931, he married Hilda Hurst. She died in 1978.
        In addition to his stepdaughter, Mrs. Riker, of Stamford, Conn., he is survived by his wife of 18 years, the former Elizabeth Baker; a son, Norman, of Washington; a daughter, Francine Friedman of Manhattan; a stepson, Martin Baker of Manhattan, four grandchildren and four stepgrandchildren.
        A funeral service is to be held at 1 P.M. tomorrow at the Riverdale Temple, at 246th Street and Independence Avenue in Riverdale, followed by interment at the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue Cemetery in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
      