
        Jean Marin, who was the head of the French news agency Agence France-Presse for 21 years and who worked closely with Gen. Charles de Gaulle during World War II, died on Saturday at his home in Paris. He was 86.
        Mr. Marin, whose memoirs were published last year, was the news agency's director general from 1954 until 1975, after serving on the Paris city council from 1945 until 1952.
        During World War II, he had been prominent in the French Resistance to the Nazis and had made news broadcasts from London to the French underground via British Broadcasting Corporation. He participated in the liberation of Paris in 1944, and earned numerous French honors for his work, including the Legion of Honor and the Croix de Guerre.
        France's new President, Jacques Chirac, said after Mr. Marin's death: "I want to salute the memory of a man who was one of the voices of our country during the dark years. He leaves the French the memory of a voice, that of hope and freedom."
        The present head of Agence France-Press, Lionel Fleury, recalled that Mr. Marin had expanded the news organization's operations outside of France and had been "very committed to the idea of independence."
        His father was a naval officer, and he, too, became one for some years in the 1930's before becoming a journalist. He went on to serve as a correspondent in London for the Havas news agency in 1939 and 1940 before he began making his wartime broadcasts to France.
        In 1943 he volunteered for service in the Free French naval forces and took part in naval operations in the English Channel and off the coast of Brittany until the Allied invasion of Normandy in 1944. Then he joined the Free French army press and radio service and entered Paris soon after the first French tanks did so.
        He went on to become president of the European Alliance of Press Agencies from 1961 to 1969.
        Mr. Marin was born Yves Morvan, but adopted the pseudonym Jean Marin while he was active in the Resistance. He was born in Douarnenez, in western Brittany.
        He had a son, Alain, during his first marriage, to Ulla Maim Rasmussen, which ended in divorce. He subsequently married Maria Dupont.
      