
        Frank Waters, a prolific novelist and chronicler of the Southwest and its Pueblo country, died on Saturday at his home in Taos, N.M. He was 92.
        Many of his books are still in print, including his best-selling "Book of the Hopi" (1963), which developed something of a cult following among the seekers of spirituality in the 1960's. Mr. Waters lived among the Hopi for three years, studying their legends and religious rituals.
        Mr. Waters began to publish in the 1930's. His most recent book was "Brave Are My People: Indian Heroes Not Forgotten" (1993), a collection of biographies of 20 Indian leaders and their commentaries on white American culture.
        "The Colorado" (1946) was the 30th volume in a Rivers of America project for the Work Projects Administration. It was reissued in 1985.
        Mr. Waters, whose father was part Cheyenne, came to wide public attention and critical acclaim with "The Man Who Killed the Deer" (1942). It was a true story of a young Taos Pueblo brave who was arrested and fined for shooting a deer two days after the hunting season had ended in Carson National Forest. The book helped persuade the Federal authorities to return to the Pueblo Indians 48,000 acres of their sacred Blue Lake country.
        A native of Colorado Springs, Colo., Mr. Waters lived a peripatetic life until he settled down in Taos, a town he first encountered in the 1930's. He attended Colorado College and went to work for the Southern California Telephone Company as an engineer. An assignment in the desert near the Mexican border inspired him, a man of the mountains until then, to write "Fever Pitch" (1930).
        Over the years he also worked in Washington for the Office of Coordination of Inter-American Affairs and for a time was writer in residence at Colorado State University.
        His other books included "Diamond Head" (1948), a book about the Confederate raider Shenandoah; "Masked Gods: Navaho and Pueblo Ceremonialism" (1951), and "The Earp Brothers of Tombstone" (1960).
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara Hayes Waters.
      