
        Dr. Bernard J. Pisani, an educator and leader of New York medical associations, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and a resident of Englewood, N.J.
        A practicing physician throughout his 62-year career, Dr. Pisani was associated with St. Vincent's for more than 50 years. He became director of the obstetrics and gynecology department in 1953 and director emeritus in 1977. He taught at New York University from 1951 until the mid-1980's and at the College of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey from 1963 to 1975.
        During a period of rapid change for the medical profession in the early 1960's, he was president of the 7,000-member New York County Medical Society. He urged physicians to take on social issues and speak up on the increasing role of government in medical care.
        He was one of the organizers of a statewide group of doctors, the Empire Political Action Committee, that was established to get doctors more involved in political action.
        In 1963, he led an eight-member study for the New York Academy of Medicine that criticized the Federal Bureau of Narcotics for interfering with the medical treatment of drug addicts. The academy called for a national program to eradicate drug addiction by treating it as an illness and not a crime.
        Dr. Pisani was elected by his fellow physicians in 1983 to lead the 30,000-member Medical Society of the State of New York. He also was president of the New York Academy of Medicine in 1985 and 1986 and served as chairman of the New York State Board of Medicine.
        A native of New York City, he received his bachelor's degree from Fordham University and a medical degree from New York University School of Medicine. In addition to serving at St. Vincent's, he served on the staffs of Bellevue Hospital, New York University Medical Center, Martland Hospital in Newark and St. Ann's Maternity Hospital.
        His first wife, Brenda Gair Pisani, died in 1981. He is survived by his wife, Dorothy McMullan Pisani; four sons, B. Michael, of Short Hills, N.J., Anthony, of Manhattan, John, of Barnstable, Mass., and Christopher, of Naples, Fla.; a brother, Joseph, of Stuart, Fla.; six grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      