
        Daniel Bershader, an internationally recognized aerophysicist whose calculations furthered the mechanics of supersonic flight and space exploration, died on May 30 at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 72.
        The cause was complications from chronic peptic ulcers, according to a report from Stanford University, where he was professor emeritus of aeronautics and astronautics.
        Dr. Bershader began his investigations in the 1940's, when supersonic flight was in its infancy. Among his early contributions was the study of the supersonic boundary layer, the layer of air at the surface of a fast-moving object.
        Beginning with his doctoral thesis at Princeton University, he added to the knowledge of the production of drag, noise and heat. By studying how a shock wave compresses gas and raises its temperature, he helped to explain the physics of high-speed flight in the Earth's atmosphere and the entry of space vehicles into planetary atmospheres.
        His research aided the design of space probes sent into the environs of Mars and Venus. With their most recent work, he and his colleagues advanced optical techniques to create three-dimensional pictures of vortices, the swirls of gases within a shock tube. Shock tubes act like miniature wind tunnels, generating fast-moving shock waves in a mixture of gases.
        Dr. Bershader was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Brooklyn College in 1942. In World War II he was a petty officer in the Navy did research on depth charges. He then earned both his master's and Ph.D. in physics at Princeton.
        After teaching at Princeton and the University of Maryland, he took a joint appointment in 1956 as associate professor at Stanford and manager of gas-dynamics research at the Lockheed Research Laboratories. He became a full-time member of the Stanford faculty in 1964 and formally retired two years ago.
        He was brought back for the 1994-95 academic year to direct Stanford's Aero-Astro Shock Tube Laboratory and its Summer Faculty Fellowship Program, co-sponsored by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the American Society for Engineering Education.
        Dr. Bershader is survived by two sons, Brian, of Palo Alto, Calif., and Lee, of Fremont, Calif., and two stepsisters, Alice Friedman of Rochester, and Betty Freeman of New York City.
      