
        Eino Hjalmar Friberg, a blind Finnish-American writer known for his translation into English of Finland's national epic poem, died on May 27 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 94.
        His death was reported by The Associated Press on Monday.
        Mr. Friberg was honored by the Finnish Government in 1988 for his rendering of the epic, the "Kalevala." Harvard University, where he studied, has established an award in Finnish literature in his honor.
        Anneli Halonen, the cultural counselor of the Finnish Embassy in Washington, said, referring to Mr. Friberg's work: "His translation is very faithful to the spirit and the rhythm of the original. Finland is one of the few countries which has its own national epic, like the 'Iliad' and 'Odyssey' for Greece."
        Many scholars feel that the Finnish epic's resonant rhythm inspired the American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow when he wrote "The Song of Hiawatha."
        Mr. Friberg's translation took him 12 years and came out in a 448-page book, "The Kalevala: Epic of the Finnish People," published by the University of Illinois Press in 1989.
        The "Kalevala" was created by a Finnish physician, Elias Lonnrot, from many of his countrymen's folkloric songs and poems. His first version, in 12,000 lines, was published in 1835, and a second, almost 23,000 lines, came out in 1849.
        According to an account by Prof. John H. Wuorinen of Columbia University, "The 'Kalevala' relates the adventures of four main heroes" -- an old minstrel, a skilled smith, a reckless youth and a mighty slave -- and "skill in the arts of magic and the power of wisdom and song play a decisive part."
        Mr. Friberg came to the United States with his family in 1906. His blindness stemmed from a boyhood accident. He held various jobs and began the translation when he was 68, with his wife, Adele, reading the Finnish original to him. She died in 1985.
        He is survived by two daughters, Sandra Friberg and Jill Ryan; two brothers, Frank and Viljo, and a sister, Edith Rudziak, all of Massachusetts, as well as several grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      