
        Savely Kramarov, a bumbling, cross-eyed Russian comic who unified a generation of disgruntled Soviet movie fans in laughter, died on Tuesday at the Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco, 13 years after immigrating to the United States. He was 60 and lived in Forest Knolls, in nearby Marin County.
        His wife, Natalia, said the cause was endocarditis.
        American movie audiences knew Mr. Kramarov only from a string of supporting roles he took on after leaving the Soviet Union. He played the hapless K.G.B. operative who ends up selling hot dogs in Central Park after failing to prevent Robin Williams from defecting in "Moscow on the Hudson"; a Soviet cosmonaut in "2010," and a Russian ambassador in "Red Heat," and had cameo roles in "Armed and Dangerous" and "Tango and Cash."
        But with the possible exception of his recent portrayal of a Russian sailor in "Love Affair," none of these roles came close to showing why Mr. Kramarov was so popular in his homeland. Millions of his fans can still spout phrases from his 42 movies, many of which can still be seen on Russian television or rented from video stores in Russian enclaves from Brighton Beach in Brooklyn to Fairfax Avenue in Los Angeles.
        "His movies were mainly for kids," a 50-year-old Moscow resident said yesterday, speaking somewhat dismissively until his own eternal child bubbled to the surface in an eruption of chuckles as he remembered Mr. Kramarov as a hapless sentry fooled into thinking enemy soldiers were really ghosts in a movie about the Russian civil war.
        On the surface, Mr. Kramarov's comic appeal was his signature cross-eyed visage. It was not a facial trick but a genetic defect he had surgically corrected after coming to the United States.
        "It was a part of his Russian charm," a friend, Joan Borsten, said yesterday. "When he came to the United States he decided he didn't want to be charming any more."
        Or didn't need to be. As Miss Borsten's husband, Oleg Vidov, a Russian actor who came to the United States three years after Mr. Kramarov, pointed out, the basic role Mr. Kramarov played in one movie after another was a version of "Crazy Ivan," a stock Russian character whose harmless craziness provided a veneer of protection in a totalitarian society.
        "When you're clever, the system kills you," Mr. Vidov said. "When you're crazy you can get away with things."
        That, Mr. Vidov said, is why Mr. Kramarov was perhaps the most beloved figure in the Soviet Union, one who touched off a chain reaction of smiles every time he walked down a Moscow street.
        "He was our guy," Mr. Vidov said.
        Mr. Kramarov was born in Moscow, and although both his parents were Jewish, his mother succeeded in listing him as Russian on his internal passport after his father, a lawyer, was arrested in a Stalinist purge and died in internal exile.
        Mr. Kramarov startled Soviet authorities in 1979 when he suddenly embraced his religious roots, proclaimed himself an Orthodox Jew and sought to immigrate to Israel. He was denied an exit visa and his movies were suppressed, but after mounting a publicity campaign, he was allowed to leave, then went to Hollywood instead of Israel.
        His religious pose was no ruse. In the United States he scrupulously observed Orthodox religious traditions.
        Although he never achieved the same degree of fame in the United States he had enjoyed in Russia, Mr. Kramarov did not complain. "He said he'd known fame," Miss Borsten said, "and while he'd like to be famous again, freedom was more important."
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Bassia, from a previous marriage.
      