
        Judge Irving Kirschenbaum, a retired justice of the New York State Supreme Court, died yesterday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 83 and had lived in Manhattan until three years ago.
        Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed him to State Supreme Court in 1972, to fill the unexpired term of a judge who had died. He was elected the following year and served until his retirement in 1988.
        Judge Kirschenbaum also played a role in revising the New York State Constitution after Governor Rockefeller named him a member of a constitutional task force. In addition, he served as an official referee to the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court and was a member of the State Board of Social Welfare.
        He was a past chairman of the Bank Street College of Education, a councilor of the Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, chairman of the Greater New York Fund and counsel to the Westchester Police Conference and 21 local police unions.
        Long active in Jewish service and charity organizations, Judge Kirschenbaum was a founding member of the Jewish Community Center of Harrison and sat on the Board of Overseers of the Jewish Theological Seminary. Other groups include the Hebrew High Schools of Greater New York and the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
        He was also a scholar and writer on the judicial systems of Israel and the former Soviet Union.
        A Manhattan native, Judge Kirschenbaum graduated from City College and St. John's University School of Law and was admitted to the New York Bar in 1941. He went into private practice in Manhattan and became the senior partner in the firm of Kirschenbaum & Shapiro.
        His first elected office was that of a state Assemblyman in Albany, representing the Stuyvesant Town-Peter Cooper Village area of the East Side. A Republican, he served from 1952 to 1954, and failed in a bid for re-election.
        Judge Kirschenbaum is survived by his wife of 58 years, Leah Warmstein Kirschenbaum; three sons, Jerry, of Little Deer Isle, Me., Stephen, of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and Bruce, of Reston, Va.; a daughter, Rose Lewis of Carmel, Calif., and nine grandchildren.
      