
        Jeffrey Z. Rubin, an academic expert in and author on the art of negotiation, died on Saturday in a mountaineering accident in Baxter State Park in Maine. He was 54 and lived in Newton, Mass.
        J. William Breslin, a spokesman for the Program on Negotiation at Harvard Law School, said Dr. Rubin was hiking up Fort Mountain in northern Maine in adverse weather when he apparently slipped and fell to his death. His body was found on the mountain at noon Sunday during a helicopter search.
        Dr. Rubin, an avid outdoorsman who had climbed mountains on every continent, was a professor of psychology at Tufts University and a senior fellow and past executive director of the Program on Negotiation. The program is a collaboration of Harvard Law, Tufts and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It is the largest university-based research center on negotiation in the country.
        Dr. Rubin taught negotiation theory and techniques to thousands of business and government executives over the years. He was often invited to speak at academic conferences and negotiation training programs in this country and abroad.
        Born in Astoria, Queens, he graduated from Antioch College in 1963 and received a Ph.D. at Columbia University in 1968. He started teaching psychology at Tufts the next year and was promoted to full professor in 1981.
        Since 1989 he concurrently served as an adjunct professor of diplomacy at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts. In the early 1980's he directed the Center for the Study of Decision Making at Tufts.
        He was the author, co-author or editor of more than 20 books. Among them are "Dynamics of Third Party Intervention: Kissinger in the Middle East" (Greenwood, 1981) and "Social Conflict: Escalation, Stalemate and Settlement (McGraw; 2d ed., 1993).
        He teamed with his wife, Dr. Carol Milligan Rubin, a clinical psychologist and instructor at the Harvard Medical School, in writing "When Families Fight: How to Handle Conflict With Those You Love" (Ballantine, 1990). He contributed dozens of articles on social psychology, conflict and negotiation to scholarly journals as well as such magazines as Psychology Today.
        Besides his wife of 23 years, Dr. Rubin is survived by three children, David, Sally and Noah; his mother, Frances Rubin of Astoria; and a sister, Jill Kron of Manhattan.
      