
        Jerry Zipkin, a celebrated fixture on the international social scene for almost half a century, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Harold Daitch, his lawyer.
        Mr. Zipkin, an heir to a Manhattan real-estate fortune who until his death lived in a Park Avenue building that was built by his father, was often referred to as "a man about everywhere."
        He was a colorful presence at glamorous balls, parties and private dinners in this country and in Europe. He also was a favorite escort of fashionable women whose husbands were too busy or too bored to accompany them to social events. It is believed that the term "walker," first used by Women's Wear Daily, was coined to describe him.
        He traveled widely with many female friends, and lunched with one or more on most days of the week, usually at Le Cirque or Mortimer's.
        He was a longtime friend, escort and confidant of Nancy Reagan and a member of the Reagans' intimate coterie during their years in the White House, when he commuted to Washington about once a week. He was with the Reagans the night Ronald Reagan was elected President, and he was on the phone almost daily with Mrs. Reagan, exchanging news and gossip.
        "He was the best friend you could ever have," Mrs. Reagan said. "I can't remember when and how I met him, but it must have been about 45 years ago. It seems that Jerry has always been part of my life."
        President Reagan, she said, "didn't see as much of him as I did, but he was very fond of him."
        Mr. Zipkin, known for his sharp wit, was a confidant to many women, listening to their concerns and offering advice. He had no hesitation in criticizing their clothes or hairdos; his comments, often barbed, whether taken seriously or ignored, were rarely resented. "You knew he meant it lovingly," said Nan Kempner, the New York social figure, a friend for more than 40 years.
        She added that he could be a devoted friend and the nicest person in the world, "if he liked you."
        Sirio Maccioni, the owner of Le Cirque, said: "He was nice to me at the very beginning when I was still at the Colony. He was very loyal."He added, "He could complain, but he also wrote the nicest letters."
        Jerome Robert Zipkin was born in Manhattan, the son of Annette and David Zipkin. He graduated from the Hun School of Princeton, N.J., and studied art and archeology for two years at Princeton University.
        Although he was known principally as a social moth, he worked for years as his father's assistant, and after his father's death he looked after the family real-estate interests, which were later sold.
        His ability to respect confidences was legendary. The designer Bill Blass, a longtime friend, said it was one reason for his extraordinary popularity with women. Mr. Zipkin once said: "A woman cannot have a best woman friend. A best woman friend will do her in."
        His friends admitted that he could be sharp and even rude. Once, at a luncheon, a waiter asked if he could do anything for him. "You can remove the lady on my right," he said.
        His caustic remarks were often directed at waiters, clerks and taxi drivers. Sometimes, they were meant as humor, which could be misunderstood. On the way to a dinner party, he argued with a taxi driver and, the story went, left the door open when he got out. The driver, infuriated, also got out, and knocked him to the ground. Mr. Zipkin said that his ribs were broken, but he didn't miss the dinner party.
        One woman kept a cache of $10 and $20 bills handy when he was her escort at a restaurant. The money was to placate the staff.
        Mr. Zipkin's eccentricities were usually excused with, "That's Jerry." He made his displeasure more than clear if his seat at a fashion show or a gala wasn't to his liking. He frequently plucked two flowers from centerpieces at restaurants, one for his companion and the other for his lapel. He was known, too, for taking an extra gift when party favors were given at charity events and public-relations functions. But his own gifts to friends were frequent and often lavish.
        In his last years, his immediate family consisted only of a sister, Eleanor Cervantes of Madrid, but he had several godchildren in the United States and Europe, whom he visited regularly.
        In the weeks before his death, he organized items in his apartment that he wished to leave to friends. He had each gift wrapped and labeled and wrote a message to accompany it. Some gifts were sent before his death: a small Rodin sculpture of a hand to a friend whose hands he admired, a set of wine glasses to a woman who had admired them.
        "Nobody ever gave him credit for being as bright as he was," Mrs. Reagan said. "His friendship wasn't just on the frivolous side. He had much more to him than that."
      