
        Peter Kump, one of the most influential figures on the American food scene as founder of Peter Kump's New York Cooking School and the James Beard Foundation, died Wednesday at his weekend home in East Hampton, L.I. He was 57 and also had a home in Manhattan.
        The cause was liver cancer, said his son, Christopher.
        Mr. Kump was an indefatigable leader in the culinary world, frequently bringing together chefs and educators to exchange ideas about the evolution of cooking here and abroad. He also brought that passion to his post as president of the International Association of Culinary Professionals in the mid-1980's.
        "Peter really was a force for bringing together all kinds of people at his schools and at the Beard House," said Jacques Pepin, the cookbook author and teacher.
        Mr. Kump was a champion of French cuisine who urged students to master the basics first. He also had a reputation as being an informal employment agency for young chefs.
        One of Mr. Kump's most ambitious projects was arranging the purchase of James Beard's Greenwich Village brownstone after the noted food writer died in 1985, and converting it into a culinary education center. Borrowing money from friends and persuading chefs to hold fund-raising events, he bought the building for $750,000 from Reed College in Portland, Ore., a beneficiary in Mr. Beard's will. The Beard House has a gastronomic library, dinners prepared by visiting chefs from around the country, lectures and wine seminars.
        "He spent so very much time on that project," Julia Child said yesterday from her home in Cambridge, Mass. "If it were not for him we would not have that wonderful house."
        Mr. Kump was reared in Fresno, Calif., and moved with his family to Switzerland when he was 15. He majored in speech and drama at Stanford University, and received a master's degree in fine arts from Carnegie Mellon University.
        He spent several years running the Comedia Repertory Company in California. In the mid-1960's, he taught speed reading at Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Institute in Pittsburgh. He also taught speed reading to members of President Richard M. Nixon's staff, including John Dean, John D. Ehrlichman, Jeb Stuart Magruder, Rosemary Woods and Ronald L. Ziegler.
        In 1967, he moved to New York as national director of education for Evelyn Wood. A few years later, Mr. Kump enrolled in cooking classes at James Beard's culinary school and in 1974, opened a cooking school in his own apartment with five students.
        Over the years, he expanded the school, eventually moving to larger quarters on East 92d Street. To date, more than 20,000 students have studied at the school, which Mr. Kump said was dedicated to "teaching cooking both as a fine art and as a profession, with an emphasis on high-quality cooking rather than on large production."
        In 1991, Mr. Kump established the James Beard Awards. A national panel of judges presents the awards to chefs, restaurants, cookbook authors and journalists.
        In recent years, Mr. Kump wrote a syndicated column about cooking. He also wrote a cookbook, "Quiche and Pate" (Irene Chalmers Cookbooks, 1982).
        No announcement has been made about the future of Peter Kump's New York Cooking School (for aspiring professionals) and Peter Kump's School of Culinary Arts (for amateurs), both of which he owned.
        The Beard Foundation is expected to be run by its directors until a replacement is named.
        Besides his son, Christopher, of Mendocino, Calif., Mr. Kump is survived by his father, Ernest J. Kump of Zurich, and a sister, Ramonda Bridges of Mill Valley, Calif. He was divorced many years ago.
      