
        Trevor N. Dupuy, a prolific military historian and battlefield theorist whose expertise extended over 5,000 years of warfare, from the conflicts of ancient Egypt to the Persian Gulf war of 1991, took his life on Monday, three weeks after learning that he was terminally ill. He was 79 and lived in Vienna, Va.
        The police in Vienna said Mr. Dupuy, a retired Army colonel who had told his family of his intentions after learning that he had pancreatic cancer, shot himself in a parking lot across the street from the police station.
        In a career in which he published more than 100 books and developed highly sophisticated computer models to predict battlefield casualties, Colonel Dupuy drew on extensive research in military archives, his own combat experiences in World War II and family heritage.
        A native of New York City who grew up on military posts, he was the son of R. Ernest Dupuy, himself a military historian, who as Dwight D. Eisenhower's military spokesman announced the start of the Normandy invasion.
        A 1938 graduate of West Point, Colonel Dupuy, fought in Burma in World War II, becoming a lieutenant colonel at the age of 27. He later held a variety of assignments in Washington and Europe and taught at Harvard, Ohio State and Rangoon University before retiring in 1968. He later founded the Dupuy Institute for military analysis in McLean, Va.
        In collaboration with his father, Colonel Dupuy produced his first book, "To the Colors," in 1942. His most recent work, "Hitler's Last Gamble," an exhaustive account of the Battle of the Bulge, was published by Harper & Row last year.
        In between, he and his father, who died in 1975, produced many works together, including "The Military Heritage of America" (1956) and "The Encyclopedia of Military History" (HarperCollins, fourth edition, 1993), a reference book of military conflict from the campaigns of the Egyptian warrior-king Menes to the modern era.
        His other works include "The Compact History of the Civil War" (1960); "Elusive Victory: The Arab-Israeli Wars 1947-1974" (1978); "A Genius for War: The German Army and General Staff, 1807-1945 (1977), and popular multivolume histories of both world wars.
        For all his recognized expertise, perhaps his most stunning achievement came in 1991 when he produced what amounted to a history of the gulf war before it was fought.
        The book, "How to Defeat Saddam Hussein," drew heavily on five hours of testimony Colonel Dupuy had given before the House Armed Services Committee in December 1990. In testifying, he outlined various military approaches to defeating Iraqi forces in Kuwait and used his computer models in predicting modest American casualties in a comparatively brief war.
        Coming at a time when some analysts were predicting many American casualties, the testimony was credited with bolstering Congressional support for President George Bush's military plans.
        Although the eventual American casualties were even lower than Colonel Dupuy's best-case scenario, the book, published by his own company, Hero Books, on Jan. 15, 1991, the day before the start of the war, forecast many of the features of the actual military campaign.
        Colonel Dupuy, who was married five times, is survived by his wife Zhang Yun; six sons, Trevor Jr. of San Antonio; Ernest of Morris Township, N.J., George of LaGrange, Ga., Charles of Princeton, Arnold of Falls Church, Va., and Fielding of New York City; three daughters, Laura of Lynchburg, Va., Mirande of New York City and Signe of Falls Church, and nine grandchildren.
      