
        Arturo Benedetti Michelangeli, an acclaimed pianist known for his reclusive behavior, died yesterday in Lugano, Switzerland. He was 75.
        He had been hospitalized several days ago, according to The Associated Press.
        Hailed by many critics and musicians as one of the supreme keyboard artists of his time, Mr. Michelangeli was a mysterious figure who zealously guarded his private life.
        The despair of his managers, he was famous for canceling performances at a moment's notice. He abruptly halted a 1948-49 American tour at midpoint because he felt the show-business atmosphere fostered by American promoters was not conducive to his work. "They wanted me to act as if I was from Barnum's circus," he said at the time.
        As recently as 1986 Mr. Michelangeli refused to continue a recital in Zurich because fresh air allowed into the hall on the day of the recital had thrown off the tuning of the piano.
        Critics were divided about Mr. Michelangeli's work, but the one indisputable aspect of his artistry was his supreme technical command. He was a strapping man whose long arms and large hands were as comfortable wrapped around the steering wheel of his Ferrari (he was a three-time competitor in the Mille Miglia road race) as they were taming the keyboard of his Steinway concert grand. (He frequently insisted on having his own piano shipped to the concert hall where he would be performing.)
        His repertory, which ranged from the keyboard sonatas of Galuppi and Scarlatti through the major keyboard works of Ravel, was not large. But critics praised his clarity, luxurious tone and painterly palette of colors and shadings. His interpretive style was difficult to label. He played with tremendous freedom and individuality, yet his basically Romantic outlook was coupled with a cool intellectual approach that could be severe.
        Not all of his work was hailed. In 1968, Harold C. Schonberg, the chief music critic of The New York Times, called Mr. Michelangeli's performance of Beethoven's "Emperor" Concerto with the New York Philharmonic "one of the most remarkable that has been heard hereabouts for years." But a few weeks later, writing of the pianist's solo recital, Mr. Schonberg declared that Mr. Michangeli's musical ideas were, "by most current standards, weird."
        Mr. Michelangeli was born in Brescia, Italy, on Jan. 5, 1920. He began studying the violin at the age of 4, and the organ at 5. At 10 he settled on the piano, and entered the Milan Conservatory. In 1940 he captured first prize in the Geneva Competition, prompting the jury chairman, the celebrated pianist Alfred Cortot, to remark, "In this boy there is some Liszt and Paderewski."
        During World War II, Mr. Michelangeli served as a pilot in the Italian Air Force, and was captured late in the war by the Germans, who, he later claimed, "hose-whipped" his hands and arms when they discovered he was a pianist. After the war, he taught at the Martini Conservatory in Bologna, and teaching would remain an essential part of his life's work.
        In later years, his teaching was unconventional and legendary. He rented several castles near his home in Florence, calling each an International Academy. Young pianists would be invited to live there free of charge. Mr. Michelangeli provided private instruction, planned the menus and kept his students to a strict schedule, with practice beginning every morning at 7. Two pianists who revered their work with him were Martha Argerich and Maurizio Pollini.
        Mr. Michelangeli was married, but little is known of his private life.
      