
        Adolph Lowe, an adviser to the Weimar Government in Germany in the 1920's and a professor of political economy at the New School for Social Research for nearly four decades, died in Wolfenbuttel, Germany, on June 3. He was 102.
        One of a remarkable generation of Jewish intellectuals who immigrated to the United States in the 1930's and early 1940's, Professor Lowe was the last surviving member of the University in Exile, created in 1933 by the founders of the New School and the New York State Legislature expressly to snatch scholars like Professor Lowe from the jaws of fascism.
        Professor Lowe was born in Stuttgart, a sleepy little city in southern Germany, in 1893. The son of a traveling salesman, he started out studying law, but the economic and political upheavals around the time of World War I turned him to economics and socialism. After that war Professor Lowe, armed with a doctorate, became an adviser to the ill-fated Weimar Government in the ministries of demobilization, labor and economics.
        By the spring of 1933, when Hitler issued his first blacklist of "dangerous intellectuals," including Professor Lowe, the philosopher Paul Tillich and the sociologist Karl Mannheim, Professor Lowe had become a highly visible professor of economics at the University of Frankfurt with a large student following. His popularity was as much personal as political.
        Diminutive and dynamic, Professor Lowe was an entertaining lecturer and avid amateur musician who frequently invited his students home for parties. His daughter Rachel Aubrey, a psychotherapist who lives in Manhattan, recalled that Professor Lowe regularly insisted that students who were having trouble finishing their dissertations live with his family until the task could be completed under his watchful eye.
        Fleeing Frankfurt in the middle of the night just before the Nazis stripped Jews of their passports, the Lowe family went to Geneva and then England, where Professor Lowe spent the next half decade at the London School of Economics and the University of Manchester. In 1941, in the middle of the blitzkrieg, Professor Lowe finally accepted an invitation from Alvin Johnson, president of the New School, to come to New York.
        Professor Lowe spent the rest of his career at the New School, where his broad, interdisciplinary approach to economics influenced several generations of students. "Lowe brought with him a tradition that saw no boundaries between economics, sociology and political science," said the economist Robert Heilbroner, the author of "The Worldly Philosophers." "Lowe was very impatient with artificial boundaries."
        Initially an enthusiastic disciple of John Maynard Keynes, the British economist and patron saint of government management of the economy, Professor Lowe later became one of Keynesianism's early critics. He argued that the effort to turn economics into a predictive science was futile and that the evolution of a highly organized society could not be mapped out with mathematical models, large or small. In that insight, he anticipated the position that most economists had embraced by the mid-1980's.
        Professor Lowe retired from the New School in 1978. After his wife, Beatrice, died in 1982, he moved back to Germany to live with a daughter, Hanna Lustig, who had settled in Wolfenbuttel with her family. Professor Lowe's retirement turned into something of a reconciliation with his past, Mrs. Aubrey said: he collected a clutch of honors from various German universities, continued to write and made many new contacts among young German liberals, including journalists, entertaining a steady stream of visitors until he was nearly 100.
        In addition to his two daughters, Professor Lowe is survived by five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      