
        Severn Darden, an improvisational comedian and actor who worked in theater, film and television, died yesterday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 65.
        The cause of death was heart failure, a family friend said.
        Mr. Darden was widely recognized in the world of improvisational theater as a comic genius whose wacky portrayals of a German know-it-all professor and a nitpicking expert on everything under the sun influenced two generations of comic performers.
        He was a founding member of the Second City troupe in Chicago, which produced such stars as Mike Nichols, Elaine May, Shelley Berman, Alan Arkin and Barbara Harris. He also spent three seasons at the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn., and went on to appear in other stage productions, in a number of films and on television.
        But improvisational comedy was Mr. Darden's strong point. He was able to play off words and situations with manic and seemingly endless variety. As part of his routine established with the Second City, he would ask members of the audience to name a character and then he would immediately fall into that character.
        In films, he played the mean doctor in "Planet of the Apes," the White House psychiatrist in "The President's Analyst" and the evil outlaw in "The Hired Hand." He also appeared in "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?," "The Last Movie," "Luv," "Dead Heat on a Merry-Go-Round" and "A New Face in Hell."
        On the stage he performed in "A Murderer Among Us," "P.S. 193," "Leda Had a Little Swan," "The Front Page" and a number of Second City stage and cabaret reviews. His television credits included "Take Five," a 1987 situation comedy with George Segal.
        During the 1964 political conventions, he roasted both parties on WBAI-FM's "Poverty Central," which satirized network television coverage.
        Mr. Darden was born in New Orleans and attended the University of Chicago.
        He is survived by his wife, Heather, and a son, Scott MacKinnon.
        Correction:  June 3, 1995, Saturday
        An obituary of the actor and comedian Severn Darden last Saturday misidentified his role in the film "The President's Analyst." He was a Russian spy, not the White House psychiatrist.
      