
        Robert Louis Meyzen, co-founder of La Caravelle, the French restaurant that 35 years ago set the standards for haute cuisine, died on Tuesday at his home in Wilton, Conn. He was 68.
        The cause was cancer, said his son, Robert Olivier Meyzen.
        For almost 20 years La Caravelle, which Mr. Meyzen owned with Fred Decre, was one of the top restaurants of its kind, consistently receiving four stars from restaurant reviewers for The New York Times. It was where the rich and famous dined, as long as they were properly dressed.
        Roger Fessaguet, at first chef and then co-owner of the restaurant, described his partner as "a restaurateur to the end of his nails." Nobody, he said, "was able to do what he did -- his skill, his personality, his knowledge and his charm for the customers; he was the front man from A to Z."
        Fashions in food began to change in the 1970's, but as long as La Caravelle was owned by Mr. Meyzen it remained true to its classical roots. Goose pate, striped bass Duglere, oeufs a la neige, Grand Marnier souffle were the standards. Nouvelle cuisine was unwelcome at La Caravelle, and by the end of the 70's, the restaurant had lost two of its stars.
        In 1980, Mr. Fessaguet retired as chef and assumed co-ownership with Mr. Meyzen. In 1984, Mr. Meyzen sold his share to Andre and Rita Jammet; four years later they bought out Mr. Fessaguet and updated the menu. The more contemporary food earned La Caravelle three stars in 1994.
        Mr. Meyzen was also an owner of La Cremaillere a charming French country restaurant in Banksville, N.Y., which his son, bought from him in 1993. And he also owed Le Poulailler in Manhattan.
        A native of Toulouse, Mr. Meyzen, began his career in his early teens in France. He studied at L'Ecole d'Hoteliere, a school for hoteliers and restaurateurs in Paris. He arrived in the United States in 1950, and like so many other Frenchmen, he worked for the legendary Henri Soule at Le Pavillion, where he rose from waiter to maitre d'hotel. When Mr. Soule opened La Cote Basque, Mr. Meyzen became the manager.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Redding, Conn., Mr. Meyzen is survived by his former wife, Michelle Meyzen, also of Redding, and two grandchildren.
      