
        Marcel Sony Labou Tansi, a novelist considered by many to be Central Africa's greatest writer, died on Wednesday in Foufoundou, a remote village in the Congo countryside where he had gone for treatment of AIDS. He was 48.
        The cause of death was complications from AIDS, including pneumonia, The Associated Press reported, quoting Eugene Banguissa, the former Mayor of Brazzaville, the capital. Mr. Tansi's wife, Pierrette, a nurse, had died four days earlier, also from AIDS complications, the A.P. added.
        Mr. Tansi's novels, written in French, were known for their biting satirical treatments of colonial Africa and the dictators who arrived after independence.
        Critics have said his books are difficult to read because they use complicated puns, symbolism and imagery to reinforce his primary message -- that Africa's colonial masters exploited not just the continent's economic resources but also its spirit. But the novels had a great impact in French-speaking Africa.
        Mr. Tansi's best-known novels are "Life and a Half" (1979), "The Shameful State" (1981) and "The People Before" (1983). "The Seven Solitudes of Lorsa Lopez" is to be published in September.
        "The Antipeople," published in 1988, received positive reviews in the United States. It is a bleak account of a former soccer idol whose life is ruined by a young girl who commits suicide after he refuses to sleep with her. Mr. Tansi used the plot to reveal some of the darker elements of life in Zaire and neighboring Angola.
        Mr. Tansi was a member of the opposition party and won a seat in the National Assembly in 1993. But he refused to attend any legislative sessions out of defiance of the Government.
        He and his wife returned to Congo in April from Paris, where they had been seeking treatment for AIDS. They moved to Foufoundou, which can be reached only by a long hike through a forest, and tried herbal medicine and ritual ceremonies that mixed African traditional healing and Christian evangelism in an attempt to heal themselves.
        Mrs. Tansi continued to deteriorate after they arrived in Foufoundou, but in the weeks before his death, Mr. Tansi had seemed more robust.
        While in Paris, Mr. Tansi finished a new work, "The Beginnings of Pain," which he said his publishers had at first refused to put out because of what they said was an excessively harsh tone toward France, which was once Congo's colonial ruler. He said a new nonfiction work, "La Cosa Nostra," would argue for a Marshall Plan for Africa.
        "Africa is the only continent left that has not found its way," Mr. Tansi said in a recent interview. "We have this incredible wealth, of resources and of spirit, but outsiders like France are just robbing us while blessing our dictators."
      