
        Claudio G. Segre, a writer, historian and authority on Italian fascism, died of a heart attack on Thursday while jogging near his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 58.
        Dr. Segre was a professor of modern European history at the University of Texas at Austin. He spent the 1994-95 academic year as a visiting professor at the University of California at Berkeley.
        Dr. Segre's 1987 biography of an Italian aviator and politician, "Italo Balbo: A Fascist Life" (University of California Press), won the Italian Air Force Historical Association Prize and the Marraro Prize of the Society of Italian Historical Studies. He was the author of many essays, book reviews and Op-Ed page articles for newspapers in the United States, Britain, Israel and Italy.
        Dr. Segre also wrote humor pieces and short stories. His book "Atoms, Bombs, and Eskimo Kisses: A Memoir of Father and Son," about his relationship with his father, the Nobel Prize-winning physicist Emilio Segre, will be published in September by Viking.
        Born in Palermo, Italy, Dr. Segre grew up in Berkeley. He graduated from Reed College and received a master's degree in English from Stanford University and a doctorate in history from the University of California. Before receiving his doctorate, he was a reporter for United Press International and The Wall Street Journal.
        From 1991 to 1993, he was a Charles A. Lindbergh Professor and then a visiting fellow in the Aeronautics Department at the National Air and Space Museum in Washington. He was also a Fulbright Fellow and won fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Humanities Center.
        Surviving are his wife, Elisabeth; two sons, Gino and Joel, both of Berkeley; a daughter, Francesca, of Chico, Calif., and two sisters, Amelia Terkel of Herzliyya, Israel, and Fausta Walsby of Bristol, England.
        Correction:  June 3, 1995, Saturday
        A picture on Monday with an obituary of Claudio G. Segre, a writer, historian and authority on Italian fascism who died on May 25, was published in error. It was mislabeled in The Times's files, and the identity of the man shown has not been determined.
      