
        Elleston Trevor, the prolific English novelist who wrote "The Quiller Memorandum" under the pseudonym Adam Hall, died on July 21 at his home in Cave Creek, Ariz. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, said his son, Jean-Pierre.
        Under his own name, Mr. Trevor wrote "The Flight of the Phoenix" and many other books, but he achieved his greatest popularity as Adam Hall, the creator of the British spy known as Quiller.
        In 1965, "The Quiller Memorandum" won the Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America for best suspense novel. Reviewing a subsequent Quiller novel in The New York Times Book Review, Anthony Boucher said the first in the series was "one of the small handful of truly distinguished spy novels of the 1960's." The next year, it was made into a movie with a screenplay by Harold Pinter (starring George Segal as Quiller). Mr. Trevor completed his 18th Quiller novel, "The Quiller Balalaika," a few days before his death, his son said.
        In his long career, Mr. Trevor wrote more than 100 books: war novels, medieval romances, maritime and horror stories as well as espionage thrillers. He was a master of adventure who always managed to keep a readers or a moviegoer on the edge of the seat, and he prided himself on the authenticity of his work. Ten Trevor novels were filmed, including "The Flight of the Phoenix" (about a plane crash in the desert, starring James Stewart and directed by Robert Aldrich) and "The Big Pick-Up," which became "Dunkirk."
        Mr. Trevor was born in Bromley, County Kent, England, and served in the Royal Air Force during World War II, an experience that inspired his first novel, "Squadron Airborne," written when he was 20. He lived in France before moving to the United States in the mid-1970's. Mr. Trevor also wrote under the pseudonyms Warwick Scott, Caesar Smith, Simon Rattray, Roger Fitzalan, Howard North and Mansell Black, and was the author of plays, screenplays and short stories.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Detroit, he is survived by his wife, Chaille, of Cave Creek.
      