
        Raymond Rosenthal, an American translator who specialized largely in 20th-century Italian fiction, died yesterday at the Cabrini Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 80 and a longtime resident of Greenwich Village.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter, Margaret F. Rosenthal, who is an associate professor of Italian at the University of Southern California.
        Mr. Rosenthal's translations from Italian also included writings by Italian essayists. In addition, he did translations from French and wrote literary criticism. Altogether, his daughter said, he translated more than 40 books.
        One of the last was Primo Levi's "Mirror Maker: Stories and Essays" (Schocken, 1990). One critic, Isa Kapp, wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Levi's range was "flawlessly represented" by Mr. Rosenthal's translation.
        Mr. Rosenthal was known particularly for his translations of Levi, a chemist who was sent to Auschwitz during World War II. One of Mr. Rosenthal's two nominations for National Book Awards in translation was for his rendering of Levi's autobiographical book "The Periodic Table" (1984, Schocken).
        Among Mr. Rosenthal's translations from French was "Simone Weil," a biography by Simone Petrement (1977).
        Mr. Rosenthal was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Elizabeth, N.J. After high school he became a reporter for The Paterson Morning Call in New Jersey. He served as an infantryman in World War II and won a Silver Star for his actions in fighting near Salerno, Italy, in 1943.
        In 1949, he went to Rome, studied film making for a time and stayed on in Italy, working as a translator and literary critic, until the late 1950's, when he returned to New York.
        His first marriage, to Elsa Dorfman, ended in divorce in 1957. He married Haidy Scafetta in the 1950's; she died in the spring of this year.
        In addition to his daughter, of Santa Monica, Calif., Mr. Rosenthal is survived by a son, Nicholas, of London; a stepson, Stefano Scafetta of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      