
        Michael Andrews, a painter who for more than 30 years was an elusive but legendary presence in the London art world, died on July 19 in London. He was 66.
        The cause was cancer, London newspapers reported over the weekend.
        While a student at the Slade School of Art in the early 1950's, he painted a large picture with overtones of a psychiatric case history called "A Man Who Suddenly Fell Over."
        Even when young, he was a famously slow worker, known for very large canvases that took him forever. But homes were found for many of his best paintings at the Tate Gallery, at the National Galleries in Melbourne and Canberra, Australia, and with a steadfast handful of private patrons.
        Mr. Andrews functioned as a purposeful absentee. No sooner was he acknowledged as an incomparable chronicler and deconstructer of the rackety London scene of the 1960's than he began a series of large paintings based on the adventures of a gas-filled balloon.
        First seen as a milk-white presence high above an English pastoral scene, the balloon then hovered above Westminster by night. It monitored more than one largely obsolete pleasure resort on the southern coast and finally defined itself as a moving shadow heading for a landfall somewhere between sand and sea.
        From 1975 onward, Scotland seized Mr. Andrews's imagination, in part for its stern and often tumultuous history, in part for the austere and geometrical ritual of deer stalking in castle country. No living painter was better at taking a well-beaten subject and giving it a whole new spin.
        In 1983, acting on a 25-year fascination with Ayers Rock, he visited Australia. Not until 1989 did he complete the series of big paintings that resulted. Though many now consider Ayers Rock a hackneyed tourist attraction, Mr. Andrews made it new.
        In his later years he appeared in a long series of exhibitions -- notably his retrospective at the Hayward Gallery in London in 1980-81 -- that confirmed not only his own status but the high esteem in which he was held by his peers. "I can't better that," said Lucian Freud when reminded of the saying that "Andrews is such an economical painter, he only paints masterpieces."
        His first and only show in New York was at the Grey Art Gallery of New York University in 1991.
        Mr. Andrews was born on Oct. 30, 1928, in Norwich, England, where his father was an insurance agent. He was called up for military service from 1947 to 1949, and spent 19 months in Egypt. From 1949 to 1953 he studied at the Slade School of Art in London. His first one-man show in London was at the Beaux-Arts Gallery in 1958.
        Though mistrustful of honorifics, Mr. Andrews served briefly as a trustee of the National Gallery in London and was elected to the Royal Academy. He was also made a Fellow of University College, London.
        He is survived by his wife, the former June Keeley, and a daughter, Melanie.
      