
        Dr. Murray S. Miron, a psychologist who advised the Federal Bureau of Investigation about the minds of criminals for two decades, died on Wednesday at Crouse Irving Memorial Hospital in Syracuse. He was 62 and lived in Syracuse.
        He had pancreatic cancer, the Syracuse University news office said in announcing his death.
        Dr. Miron retired in May after 30 years as a professor of psychology at the university. He once observed that he "specialized in the language of those men who would use language to threaten others."
        He was also a consultant to the United States Marshals Service and Secret Service and other Federal agencies, along with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and multinational corporations, the news office said.
        The subjects on which Dr. Miron advised officials included David Koresh, the Branch Davidian sect leader; the New York serial killer known as Son of Sam, and the Unabom case, a series of bombings over the past 17 years.
        Dr. Miron gave the F.B.I. four analyses of the written and spoken words of Mr. Koresh in the final 10 days of the standoff between Federal agents and the sect at its compound near Waco, Tex., in 1993.
        A calculation central to the decision to proceed with the final tear-gas attack by the Federal agents was that Mr. Koresh was not likely to respond by harming himself. During weeks of analyzing Mr. Koresh, a team of experts -- some from the Behavioral Science Unit at the F.B.I.  -- drafted a profile of him that all but ruled out suicide.
        Later, Dr. Miron said: "We felt this was an individual who was extraordinarily vain and very fearful of physical injury. It appeared all of his actions were defensively aggressive."
        But the sect's compound went up in flames in the raid, killing Mr. Koresh and about 80 followers.
        Speculating about what many of Mr. Koresh's followers might have felt before they died, Dr. Miron said later that they might have believed that they were invulnerable, or that they were about to ascend to glory no matter what happened to their bodies.
        Dr. Miron was a co-author of the book "Hostage" (Pergamon, 1978) and was the author, co-author, editor or co-editor of more than half a dozen other books.
        He was born in Allentown, Pa., received a B.A. in psychology from Northwestern University and studied experimental phonetics, speech science and psycholinguistics at the University of Illinois, where he earned a Ph.D. in psycholinguistics in 1960. Psycholinguistics is the study of the psychological factors involved in the perception of and response to linguistic phenomena.
        His first marriage to Helen K. Kutuchief ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Cheryl Adamy, whom he married in 1973; a daughter, Melinda Basi of Urbana, Ill.; a son, Murray, of Syracuse, and a brother, Dr. Roy Miron of Macungie, Pa.
      