
        Lionel Ovesey, a Columbia University psychoanalyst who wrote two important works about the psyche of homosexuals and African-Americans, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 80 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        He suffered a long illness, his family said.
        Dr. Ovesey was co-author with Dr. Abram Kardiner of "The Mark of Oppression: A Psychosocial Study of the American Negro" (Norton). Published in 1951, it became a landmark in its day as a study of the effect of contemporary culture on the black middle class.
        His research into homosexuality, pseudohomosexuality, transsexualism and transvestism produced a series of scientific papers in the 1960's and 70's, as well as the book "Homosexuality and Pseudohomosexuality" (Aronson, 1979), which remains in print.
        His later work included an extensive study of cross-gender disorders. Some of his suppositions aroused controversy but later found acceptance, along with clinical applications.
        Dr. Ovesey was born in Manchuria, where his Ukrainian parents were living at the time. He was brought to the United States as a boy and grew up in Los Angeles.
        He graduated from the University of California in 1937 and from the University of California Medical School in 1941. After interning at Los Angeles County General Hospital, he spent four years in the United States Army and rose to the rank of captain as a flight surgeon.
        He then became a resident in psychiatry at Manhattan State Hospital and received his certificate in psychoanalytic medicine from the Columbia University Psychoanalytic Clinic for Training and Research in 1948. He then joined the faculty, gained appointment as a clinical professor of psychiatry at the College of Physicians and Surgeons and also worked as a training and supervising analyst at the psychoanalytic clinic.
        He retired as a professor emeritus in 1985, but kept his private practice on the East Side for some time.
        Dr. Ovesey is survived by his wife of 54 years, Regina Haimo Ovesey; two daughters, Candace and Michele Ovesey, both of Manhattan; a brother, Morris Ovsey, and a sister, Sera Spinner, both of Los Angeles; and four grandchildren.
      