
        Edgar Scott, a prominent Philadelphia investment banker and Main Line socialite, died on Friday at Ardrossan, the family farm in Radnor, Pa. He was 96.
        Mr. Scott joined his father-in-law, Robert Leaming Montgomery, in 1929 to form Montgomery, Scott & Company. Based in Philadelphia, the investment firm is now known as Janney Montgomery Scott.
        For more than 70 years, Mr. Scott was married to Helen Hope Montgomery, the inspiration for Tracy Lord, the stage character created in 1939 by Katharine Hepburn in "The Philadelphia Story" by Philip Barry. Miss Hepburn repeated the role in the 1940 film version.
        Mr. Barry was Mr. Scott's classmate in a play-writing class at Harvard University. After graduating in 1920 Mr. Scott briefly tried his hand at journalism and writing plays before turning to investments. By 1928 he bought a seat on the New York Stock Exchange for $300,000.
        The setting for the Barry play was Ardrossan and what the Scotts called "the big house." That was the Georgian mansion in which Mrs. Scott grew up and where Philadelphia society met to party, dine and perhaps head for the woods and a late-night dip in the pool.
        Ellen and Philip Barry were frequent guests, and the lives of the two couples almost intertwined.
        Mr. Scott was born to wealth and privilege in Paris, where his father was a second secretary in the United States Embassy. He was a grandson of Thomas A. Scott, ruler of a railroad empire that included the Pennsylvania Railroad.
        Edgar Scott's college education was interrupted by World War I, when he volunteered as an ambulance driver in France.
        He was a former governor of the New York and the Philadelphia-Baltimore Stock Exchanges. He was a past president of the World Affairs Council of Philadelphia, a vice president of Bryn Mawr Hospital, a Radnor commissioner and dean of the Shakespeare Society of Philadelphia.
        He wrote "How To Lay a Nest Egg; Financial Facts of Life for the American Girl" (John C. Winston, 1950), in which he explained the mysteries of Wall Street in a plain and breezy style intended for women with money to invest.
        Mr. Scott's survivors include two sons, Edgar Jr., retired chairman of the Janney firm, and Robert M., president of the Philadelphia Museum of Art; five grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren. His wife died on Jan. 9 at 90.
      