
        George Seldes, author, journalist and critic of the press who protested the suppression of news and the power of business interests in the 1930's and 1940's, died yesterday in Mount Ascutney Hospital and Health Center in Windsor, Vt. He was 104 years old and lived in Hartland Four Corners, Vt.
        Mr. Seldes brought a muckraker's fervor to his critical commentaries on the press in books and in the newsletter In Fact, which he edited from 1940 to 1950.
        Like I. F. Stone, who published his independent I. F. Stone's Weekly from the 1950's until the early 1970's, Mr. Seldes delighted in uncovering stories that had been overlooked by others, exposing corruption and challenging the practices of leading newspapers.
        In Fact, which claimed 176,000 subscribers at its peak in 1947, had a self- described "progressive" view and was established to present "the real inside news, the kind newspapers frequently get but dare not print," Mr. Seldes wrote when he helped found it.
        "George Seldes was an important force for good in American journalism," said Ben H. Bagdikian, the press critic, in an interview. "In the years just before and after World War II, when standard publishing practice was far more wedded than it is today to archaic conventions of slighting nonestablishment news, Seldes was a lonely and crucial source of important information and insights."
        In Fact, which has been described as the nation's first successful journalism review, also carried strong attacks on business and issued warnings against what Mr. Seldes regarded as reactionary forces. A favorite target was the National Association of Manufacturers.
        In one long-running crusade in the newsletter, he asserted that elements of the press had suppressed reports about the hazards of smoking for fear of angering the tobacco companies, a major source of advertising revenue.
        George Seldes was born Nov. 16, 1890, in a Utopian colony started by his father in Alliance, N.J. At age 18, he got a job as a reporter for The Pittsburgh Leader.
        Once he was sent to a slum to interview a saleswoman who had filed a rape complaint against the son of the owner of a large department store. He was outraged, he later said, when the article was not published but was given to the advertising department, which forced the store to buy more advertising "under the threat of blackmail."
        After a year at Harvard University, he went to Europe to cover World War I for a syndicate that sent his reports to The St. Louis Globe-Democrat and other newspapers. He remained in Europe after the war as a correspondent for The Chicago Tribune, covering wars, assassinations, peace conferences, coronations and the rise to power of dictators. He met and wrote about Freud, Alfred Adler, Isadora Duncan, Mussolini and Lenin.
        A year after leaving The Tribune in 1928, he wrote the first of more than a dozen books, "You Can't Print That," an attack on postwar cover-ups and the lack of objectivity in the European press. The book was a critical and commercial success.
        For three years Mr. Seldes covered the Spanish Civil War as a freelancer, concluding, he said later, that news coverage of the conflict was marred by unthinking acceptance of lies from the pro-Franco side.
        After returning the United States, he wrote the two books on the American press on which his reputation as a newspaper critic largely rests.
        In "Lords of the Press," published in 1935, he offered mostly scathing portraits of the nation's major newspapers. In "Freedom of the Press" in 1938 (Da Capo) he discussed the influence of business interests on the press and declared that more censorship was caused by advertising pressures than by government. He called for an ethics code for reporters and lived long enough to see journalism schools offer ethics courses and press organizations give attention to ethical issues.
        "Even for later journalists who did not accept all of Seldes's analysis, he had an effect on forcing a great number of people to consider what the role of journalism really is," Mr. Bagdikian said.
        After Mr. Seldes's newsletter ceased publication in 1950, when his warnings about Fascism seemed out of tune with rising public concern about Communism, he found few outlets for his writing.
        More recently, he compiled "The Great Quotations" (1961, Carol) and "The Great Thoughts" (1985, Ballantine), then wrote his memoirs, "Witness to a Century" (1987).
        Late in life, he began to reap honors for a lifetime of press criticism. In 1980 he was given an award for professional excellence by the Association for Education in Journalism and in 1982 he was given a special award by Long Island University for his writings.
        Mr. Seldes married the former Helen Larkin Wiesman in 1932, and she died in the late 1970's. His brother Gilbert Seldes, the critic and author, died in 1970.
        He is survived by a niece, Marian Seldes, who is an actress in Manhattan and a nephew, Timothy Seldes, a literary agent who lives in Manhattan and Washington.
      