
        Ted Hook, a perennial chorus dancer who turned into an impromptu impresario at his restaurant, Backstage, died on July 19 at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 65.
        A friend, Lee Doyle, said the cause was pneumonia.
        Until he opened Backstage on West 45th Street in 1973 for what turned out to be a decadelong run, Mr. Hook's greatest claims to fame were that he had set a Las Vegas duration record for a dancer (64 weeks at the Sands Hotel) and had spent five years as Tallulah Bankhead's secretary.
        He had also, by his own count, appeared in 403 movies, and never mind that he was never more than a chorus dancer or an extra. He was often assigned to Fred Astaire movies because he was shorter than the sensitive star.
        When he opened his restaurant, next to the Martin Beck Theater, his Hollywood friends and acquaintances, many of them stars, patronized it. Partly because of the elfin Mr. Hook's personality and partly because they never had to pay, the stars played along when he introduced them to the other customers, suggesting, coyly that just maybe they might come up to the microphone and perform. Among those who did, Mr. Doyle said, were Liza Minnelli, Margaret Whiting, Chita Rivera and Carol Channing.
        As a result, Backstage became an after-theater celebrity surprise party in which neither the customers nor the proprietor knew which stars would perform on the spur of the moment.
        In time, Mr. Doyle recalled, stars took to calling to make reservations.
        A dapper, elegant man with a vast wardrobe, Mr. Hook had a flair for the grand gesture and theatrical flourish, which would sometimes startle tourists when he did a pirouette before leading them to a table.
        Mr. Hook, who was born in Cleveland, spent much of his life in the show business hinterlands. He directed amateurs in charity productions ("82 musicals in 82 different cities," his resume said), helped stage industrial shows and cruise ship productions and was casting director for the Continental Baths at the Ansonia Hotel, where Bette Midler became a star.
        Mr. Hook later opened Onstage, a cabaret on West 46th Street, which booked shows, among them the first production of "Jerry's Girls," a musical revue of Jerry Herman's music.
        He is survived by his mother, Estelle Hook, and his sister, Alice Nicoliasen, both of Santa Cruz, Calif.
      