
        Dr. Harry M. Zimmerman, a pioneer in the study of diseases of the nervous system in the United States and a founder of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, died on Friday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, where he had trained a generation of neuropathologists. Mr. Zimmerman, who was 93, had also taught at Yale and Columbia.
        In a varied career that produced hundreds of highly specialized research papers, Dr. Zimmerman did seminal work on vitamin deficiency and the development of tumors of the nervous system at Yale in the 1930's; helped prevent the spread of parasitic diseases in the Pacific during World War II (his prescription being clean sheets), and while stationed on Guam with the Navy Medical Corps in 1945 and 1946 spurred a wave of new research into Lou Gehrig's disease when he discovered an extraordinarily high incidence of the malady among the native population.
        As a dedicated researcher in a highly arcane field measured in microns at the end of a microscope, Dr. Zimmerman had broader vision. When he looked up from the microscope, there was a twinkle in his eye that attracted and charmed a range of diverse friends, from Dr. Harvey Cushing, the renowned neurosurgeon who collaborated with Dr. Zimmerman at Yale, to Adm. Chester Nimitz, once an aspiring physician, who became a special friend during World War II.
        Sent to Okinawa within days of the Allied invasion, Dr. Zimmerman teamed up with another friend in the Pacific, a virologist who shared his tent, to curb an epidemic of encephalitis. Dr. Zimmerman extracted brain tissue from a patient who had died from the disease. It was used by his tentmate to prepare a crude vaccine, an exercise that foreshadowed the later work of that tentmate, Albert Sabin, in developing the oral polio vaccine.
        Dr. Zimmerman was the son of a Ukrainian stonemason who brought his family to the United States in 1909. He grew up in New Haven and received both his undergraduate and medical training at Yale.
        After a year of specialized training at the German Institute of Psychiatric Research in Munich, at the time a crucible of neuropathology, he returned to the Yale medical school and established its first neuropathology section. He remained at Yale until World War II.
        After the war, Dr. Zimmerman considered returning to Yale, but toyed with the idea of accepting an offer from Montefiore. Although intrigued with the offer, he suggested to the hospital's main benefactor, Henry L. Moses, that he might want to look for "a less expensive candidate, one who wouldn't want three assistants, more space and new equipment."
        Mr. Moses took the bait. "If you didn't want those things," he said, "I wouldn't want you."
        In the early 1950's, when Yeshiva University decided to open a medical college, Dr. Zimmerman was named its first director, partly because of the renown he had gained at Montefiore. This led to his persuading Albert Einstein to allow the university to name the college after him.
        Einstein, insisting that it would be more appropriate to name the hospital for a medical luminary, was adamant, rejecting all arguments to the contrary, until Dr. Zimmerman, turning up the twinkle, pretended to give in, even, as he later told it, "suggesting the name of an important but relatively little-known medical scientist."
        "Who is this person?" Einstein asked.
        "You know, Professor," Dr. Zimmerman replied, "no one would ever ask me, 'Who is Dr. Einstein?' "
        Dr. Zimmerman got his victory, but Einstein had the last laugh. "Tell me," he said to Dr. Zimmerman, "are you a doctor or a lawyer?"
        Dr. Zimmerman was later dean of the college and taught at Columbia as well.
        He is survived by his wife, Miriam.
      