
        Henning Kronstam, a former director of the Royal Danish Ballet and a dancer of exceptional elegance, died on Sunday at his home in Copenhagen. He was 60.
        The cause was a circulatory ailment, said his biographer, Alexandra Tomalonis.
        As a dancer, Mr. Kronstam was praised for his purity of style, his good looks and his noble bearing. He performed 130 roles, 40 of them in premieres, with the Royal Danish Ballet, which he joined in 1952.
        He was the company's director from 1978 to 1984 and organized its first Bournonville Festival in 1979, featuring all the complete surviving works of August Bournonville, Denmark's great 19th-century choreographer. The event attracted international audiences.
        Mr. Kronstam was considered an authoritative interpreter of James, the impassioned hero of the Bournonville masterpiece "La Sylphide." Yet he was at home in the modern repertory and gave definitive performances in such important Balanchine ballets as "Apollo" and "La Sonnambula." In 1955 he created the role of Romeo in Frederick Ashton's version of "Romeo and Juliet."
        Many balletgoers considered Mr. Kronstam a dancer's dancer because of his concern for stylistic nuances. Copenhagen critics occasionally likened him to a slightly older Danish dancer, Erik Bruhn. But whereas Bruhn was known around the world because of his appearances with many companies, Mr. Kronstam was less of an international star. Although he made guest appearances in the 1960's with the Chicago Opera Ballet and the International Ballet of the Marquis de Cuevas, he remained loyal to the Royal Danish Ballet.
        As Danish dancers traditionally do, Mr. Kronstam moved from heroic roles to character parts as he matured. He was noted for his characterization of a psychopathic ballet teacher in Flemming Flindt's "Private Lesson" in the 1960's, and he created the role of a middle-aged Caesar in Murray Louis's "Cleopatra" in 1976. After he retired as the director of the Danish company, he remained one of its balletmasters and taught in its school, which he had entered as a child in 1941.
        In 1964, he was named a Knight of the Order of Dannebrog, one of Denmark's highest honors.
      