
        Rowland Wells Redington, a General Electric physicist who helped the company, and the country, gain a leadership role in modern diagnostic imaging, died on June 22 at Samaritan Hospital in Troy, N.Y. He was 70 and lived in Niskayuna, outside Schenectady.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to a spokesman for General Electric's Research and Development Center in Schenectady.
        Dr. Redington's work at the center contributed to America's prominence in computed tomography, or CT, X-ray scanning and magnetic resonance imaging, or M.R.I. Both innovations have affected the health of millions of people around the world.
        Tomography is an X-ray technique in which only one plane is photographed, and the outline of structures in other planes eliminated. Such detailed cross-sections give physicians a valuable tool in discovering and identifying tumors.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Redington led a team of General Electric technicians who developed a novel fan-beam CT X-ray scanner that can make sharp, cross-sectional scans of a patient in less than five seconds. Time is essential because the faster a scan, the sharper the image. According to G.E., its CT scanner is the world leader in sales.
        Later, Dr. Redington helped devise a high-power magnetic scanner for medical applications. Using magnetic fields and radio signals, the machine produces images of body structures without resorting to ionizing radiation.
        Dr. Redington's achievements resulted in 26 American patents. He was named Inventor of the Year in 1987 by the Eastern New York Patent Law Association.
        A native of Otego, N.Y., he graduated in mechanical engineering from Stevens Institute of Technology. After receiving a Ph.D. in experimental physics at Cornell University in 1951, he joined the G.E. center in Schenectady, where he spent his entire career. He retired in 1991 as laboratory manager of the Medical Diagnostics Systems Branch.
        Dr. Redington is survived by two sons, Philip E., of Averill Park, N.Y., and John B., of Port Mansfield, Tex., and five grandchildren. His wife of 48 years, Shirley Bennett Redington, died in April.
      