
        Philip W. Bonsal, a career diplomat and the last United States Ambassador to Cuba, died Wednesday in his home here. He was 92.
        He had been under treatment for pneumonia.
        When Mr. Bonzal arrived in Havana in February 1959 as Ambassador, relations between the United States and the revolutionary Castro Government had already begun to deteriorate. But stepping off the plane, Mr. Bonsal shook hands with a bearded Castro emissary and congratulated him on the bravery of the revolutionaries who had overthrown the dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista, which had been backed by Washington for many years.
        The act was widely noted in the Cuban press, and Prime Minister Fidel Castro, later the Cuban President, expressed appreciation for his "friendly, cordial" approach.
        Despite this auspicious beginning, Mr. Bonsal was unable to develop a dialogue with the revolutionary, and as nationalization of American-owned companies proceeded, his counsel of quiet negotiation was largely ignored in Washington.
        Without notifying him, the Eisenhower Administration suspended Cuba's sugar import quota -- three million tons -- in July 1960, in response to Havana's sale of a million tons of sugar to the Soviet Union. Mr. Bonsal opposed this and other economic sanctions against Mr. Castro as likely to drive him further into the Soviet orbit.
        He was recalled to Washington in October 1960 in retaliation for a Cuban demand that the United States Embassy staff in Havana be sharply reduced. He never returned. Six months later an American-trained force of Cuban exiles invaded Cuba at the Bay of Pigs and were ignominiously defeated.
        Mr. Bonsal summed up his experience in a 1971 book, "Cuba, Castro and the United States," published by the University of Pittsburgh Press, in which he did not spare Mr. Castro harsh criticism. But he wrote, "The Cuba of the future must be primarily the creation of Cubans living in Cuba."
        Mr. Bonsal, fluent in Spanish, was no stranger to controversy. As Ambassador to Colombia from 1955 to 1957, he stirred the wrath of the dictator, Gen. Gustavo Rojas Pinilla, by consorting with opposition politicians and intellectuals.
        He had the satisfaction of returning shortly afterward to attend the inauguration of General Rojas Pinilla's successor after a coup. Later, as Ambassador to Bolivia, he sought out oil workers, miners and intellectuals, enabling him to establish good relations with the new Government of the National Revolutionary Movement and help steer it toward centrist politics.
        He later served as Ambassador to Morocco, and retired in 1965.
        Philip Wilson Bonsal was born May 22, 1903, in New York City, the son of Stephen and Henrietta Bonsal. As a journalist for The New York Herald, the father reported on the Spanish-American War, after which Spain ceded Cuba to the United States in 1898. Stephen Bonsal later became a diplomat.
        Philip attended schools in the Philippines and Switzerland, and earned a bachelor's degree at Yale. He worked in Latin America for the International Telephone and Telegraph Company, then joined the Federal Communications Commission as a telephone specialist and from there went to the State Department in 1937. His first foreign assignment was Havana. He later served in Madrid, The Hague and Paris.
        He is survived by his wife of 66 years, the former Margaret Lockett of Knoxville, Tenn.
      