
        Richard (Pancho) Gonzalez, a two-time national champion whose pride and passion on a tennis court were as compelling as his natural talent, died Monday night in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 67.
        The cause of death was stomach cancer, said Gonzalez's former wife, Rita Agassi Gonzalez, who said that Gonzalez had entered Sunrise Hospital two weeks ago with a fever. He seemed to be improving and was watching Wimbledon every day, she said, but then he developed pneumonia and doctors found that the cancer had spread. "Pancho deteriorated very quickly," said Agassi Gonzalez, who is Andre Agassi's older sister.
        That Gonzalez's death occurred during the Wimbledon championships was only one of the many ironies in a career filled with numerous athletic achievements as well as personal frustrations. He never won the Wimbledon singles title, but his epic opening-round match there with Charlie Pasarell at the 1969 championships symbolized Gonzalez's persistent struggle for recognition and respect.
        Two months past his 41st birthday, a grandfather in the twilight of his career, Gonzalez outlasted the 25-year-old Pasarell in the longest match in Wimbledon history. In an era before tie breakers were adopted on the tour, the score was 22-24, 1-6, 16-14, 6-3, 11-9. The match numbered 112 games, took 5 hours 12 minutes and spanned two days, or what Gonzalez later would call "my lifetime."
        "He was a marvelous player, a great competitor," Don Budge, the 1938 Grand Slam champion, said yesterday. "He was the best player who never won Wimbledon."
        But Gonzalez won his share of titles, including the 1948 and 1949 United States singles championships at Forest Hills (he was the second-youngest champion ever -- at age 20), and a spate of world professional crowns. In any discussion of the "best tennis player of all time," Gonzalez is named among a group that includes Bill Tilden, Ellsworth Vines, Rod Laver, Jack Kramer, Budge, Bjorn Borg and John McEnroe. He was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1968.
        "Pancho's passing will give the modern-day tennis player a chance to look at how wonderful he was," Kramer said yesterday. "He had no Wimbledons, one doubles title there and a couple of U.S. championships, but from 1954 to 1962, he was the best player that walked on the court."
        Kramer, who signed Gonzalez to his first pro contract in 1949, added: "He was a great competitor. He would have won several Wimbledons if he hadn't turned professional. The records of Richard Gonzalez are obscured because of that. He never showed up at Wimbledon and Forest Hills until 1968, just as I did."
        Gonzalez's style was the envy of his peers. His right-handed serve, with its natural action, epitomized power, control and placement. His ground strokes had touch, precision and versatility, and his overhead combined the benefits of his size, agility and an intuitive court sense. At the net, Gonzalez's volleys were punched yet effectively angled, a style emulated successfully by McEnroe decades later.
        Gonzalez, 6 feet 3 inches tall, moved about the court with lithe quickness, his coal-black hair and coppery complexion often creating a menacing presence. A scar across his left cheek, from a childhood car crash, only heightened his aura, especially when he launched into a verbal assault on umpires and linesmen. He considered them an extension of the discrimination he faced as a Mexican-American youngster growing up on the streets of Los Angeles.
        "Pancho gets 50 points on his serve and 50 points on terror," Kramer once said, and Gonzalez himself said: "The great champions were always vicious competitors. You never lose respect for a man who is a vicious competitor, and you never hate a man you respect. I don't like Rod Laver because he's such a vicious competitor, but I don't dislike him."
        As for Laver, he once said of Gonzalez, "He gets meaner every time you play him."
        Always considered moody, volatile, contentious, Gonzalez snarled at opponents, sometimes drilled balls at line judges and once rushed into the seats after a heckler. In his later years on the tour, Gonzalez's indomitable spirit and feel for the game allowed him to compete successfully against younger players and also become a Davis Cup coach and confidant of future champions.
        Richard Alonzo Gonzalez was born on May 9, 1928 in Los Angeles, one of seven children of Mexican immigrants, Manuel and Carmen.
        In once recounting the harrowing story of his family's flight across the desert from Chihuahua, Mexico, to California, Gonzalez spoke with pride of their ability to survive -- father, mother and seven children -- under stressful circumstances. His youth was equally difficult -- filled with skipped classes, truancy reports and neighborhood problems until his mother bought him a tennis racquet for 50 cents at a local store. Gonzalez, 12 at the time, taught himself to play on the public courts in Los Angeles.
        Gonzalez enlisted in the Navy at 17. His military service opened doors that his public courts and Chicano background couldn't. The Southern California Tennis Association finally sponsored his first trip East to the big grass-court tournaments.
        After he won his second United States singles title at Forest Hills in 1949, Gonzalez turned professional -- against the advice of Budge, Bobby Riggs and others who felt that, at 21, he was too inexperienced. In his first tour, Gonzalez took on Kramer, the reigning pro champion, and lost 96 of their 123 matches.
        But in his first six months, Gonzalez earned $85,000, and he remained ruefully respectful of Kramer. "Jack set me a great example," Gonzalez said years later. "For one thing, he showed me the value of the killer instinct and I learned to develop mine. He drove me to improve my game."
        Gonzalez went on to dominate the pro tour from 1954 to 1962, beating such former amateur champions as Frank Sedgman, Pancho Segura, Tony Trabert, Lew Hoad and Ken Rosewall in head-to-head matches before retiring in 1963 after a dispute with Kramer over money.
        Gonzalez was married six times, including twice to the same woman, Madelyn Darrow. His last marriage, to Rita Agassi, also ended in divorce, but the two remained close. They had a son, Skylar, now 9.
        Gonzalez is survived by his brothers, Ralph and Manuel, and his sisters, Yolanda, Bertha, Margaret and Terry, and by seven children, Richard Jr., Michael, Danny, Christina, Andrea, Jeanna and Skylar.
      