
        Foster Furcolo, whose two two-year terms as Governor of Massachusetts highlighted a lifetime in politics, public service, legal practice, teaching and literary endeavors, died yesterday at Youville Hospital in his hometown, Cambridge, Mass. He was 83.
        Death was due to heart failure, his son Charles said.
        Mr. Furcolo (pronounced FER-ko-lo) was a middle-of-the-road Democrat who won the Statehouse in 1956 by overcoming a Republican tide that gave President Dwight D. Eisenhower, bound for re-election, a 450,000-vote margin in Massachusetts. Mr. Furcolo won by more than 50,000 votes, becoming the commonwealth's 60th governor.
        Perhaps his proudest accomplishment during the administration that followed was the establishment of a community college system. He also expanded the University of Massachusetts, sponsored growth in loan and scholarship programs for needy students and championed legislation that established a tax withholding system, strengthened programs for the elderly and outlawed housing discrimination.
        Mr. Furcolo was already set on the path to the governorship four years before he was elected. It was then, as his second term in the United States House of Representatives was nearing an end, that Gov. Paul A. Dever, looking for a suitable young Democrat to strengthen the party's appeal outside Boston, brought him into the Dever administration, naming him State Treasurer and Receiver General.
        "I specifically wanted to get away from the traditional green ticket and give the voters in the Connecticut Valley someone they could vote for," Mr. Dever said years afterward. "I didn't know until much later that Furcolo was half Irish. All I knew about him was that he had a good reputation, political imagination and lots of drive and vigor."
        Mr. Furcolo hoped for a career in the Senate but never realized that dream. He ran for a Senate seat in 1954, but, lacking the endorsement of Senator John F. Kennedy, a fellow Democrat who was a friend of the Republican incumbent, Leverett Saltonstall, and opposed by the liberal Americans for Democratic Action, whose disbanding he advocated, he lost in the general election. Another bid for the Senate, after his second term as Governor, ended with defeat in the Democratic primary.
        Four years after leaving the Statehouse and returning to the practice of law, Mr. Furcolo was indicted on charges of having conspired to arrange for a bribe to be paid to members of the Governor's Executive Council in 1960. The indictment was dismissed in 1965 for lack of evidence.
        From 1967 to 1972, he served as an assistant district attorney in Middlesex County. And from 1969 to 1975, he taught subjects like legal ethics, criminal law, government and public service at various Massachusetts colleges.
        He also continued to write books, plays, articles and essays, as he had for many years. Among his projects was the stage adaptation of a 1957 political satire, called "Let George Do It" (Harcourt Brace), whose author was known as John Foster, one of several names under which Mr. Furcolo wrote.
        Mr. Furcolo was born in New Haven on July 29, 1911. He attended Yale University, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1933 and a law degree in 1936. While in law school, he also wrote two plays: "Fancy Free," a comedy later produced by stock companies, and "The Grail," an antiwar drama.
        He was admitted to the Massachusetts bar in 1937 and began practicing law in Springfield. He first bid for public office, in 1942, was an unsuccessful run for district attorney of Hampden County. He joined the Navy in World War II and served as a junior officer aboard an attack transport in the Pacific.
        Mr. Furcolo was married three times. His first wife, the former Kathryn Foran, the mother of his children, died in 1964, and his second wife, Lucy Cara, died in 1972.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former Constance Gleason of Cambridge; three sons, Charles M., of Wellesley Hills, Mass.; Foster Jr., of Coronado, Calif., and Richard W., of Boston; a daughter, Katherine F. Shearman of San Diego; a brother, Charles Furcolowe of Phoenix; 14 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      