
        Aziz Nesin, an iconoclastic Turkish writer who narrowly escaped death in a 1993 fire set by militant Muslims he had angered, died yesterday while visiting Cesme, a town on Turkey's Aegean coast. He was 80 and had a home in Istanbul.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        In the 1993 fire, 37 people died during the burning of a hotel -- in the central Turkish city of Sivas -- in which Mr. Nesin was staying. The toll underscored the virulence of some passions in Islam and other faiths in the late 20th century.
        Last year he said in an interview: "Fundamentalism is not a concept unique to Islam. It is a danger that presents itself in all world religions. Regardless of which religion it presents itself in, fanaticism is an enemy of peace, tolerance and civilization."
        Mr. Nesin was a satirist, a leftist and an atheist from a Muslim family. He said in 1994 that he did not need God "because I want neither paradise nor hell." He wrote more than 100 books, chiefly novels laced with acid criticism of politics and society.
        He incurred the wrath of some of his fellow Turks when excerpts from a book by the Indian-born British writer, Salman Rushdie, "The Satanic Verses" -- which Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini of Iran had called blasphemous -- appeared in 1993 in a Turkish newspaper. Mr. Nesin was a columnist for the newspaper and was trying to have the book published in Turkish.
        In July 1993, Mr. Nesin angered Islamic militants in Sivas with a speech he gave while attending a cultural festival there. In his address, by some accounts, he questioned the origins of the Koran. But later he contended: "I did not engage in anti-religious propaganda. I spoke in favor of tolerance and democracy."
        On the day after the speech, a crowd set the hotel ablaze. The Columbia Journalism Review later reported: "Nesin was saved by firemen because he was mistaken for a police lieutenant. As he was climbing down the fire truck's ladder, the firemen realized their mistake and started beating him. A member of the Sivas City Council was shouting, 'This is the devil we should really have killed.' Nevertheless he escaped with minor injuries."
        In December 1994, when more than 80 militant Muslims were given jail sentences after being tried for their role in the fire, defendants shouted, "Sivas is the grave of the infidels," and threw furniture at judges and journalists.
        Mr. Nesin graduated from a military school as a youth and began writing political and social satire in 1944, after being dismissed from the army for leftist views. In the 1950's and 1960's he wrote satire of autocratic governance, and he was imprisoned for five years.
      