
        Bert Hardy, a photographer whose images of life in England during and after World War II are considered classics of British photojournalism, died on Monday in Oxted, south of London. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        A friendly, easygoing man known equally for his physical courage and his ability to marshal people into position for his photographs, Mr. Hardy was the leading photographer for Picture Post magazine, the British equivalent of Life. In 1941, during the London Blitz, he became the first photographer to receive a picture credit in the magazine, for a series of images of firemen fighting fires.
        He photographed Londoners in air-raid shelters, the D-Day landing in Normandy, the liberation of Paris, the crossing of the Rhine and the liberation of the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Germany. He was the only British photographer to land with American troops at Inchon during the Korean War.
        Though he was a gifted war photographer, Mr. Hardy's sharp, spontaneous images of people in everyday situations were more characteristic of his work. His peacetime pictures included images of immigrants in Soho and Liverpool, prostitutes in Piccadilly and children in the streets of the Gorbals, a Glasgow slum. His work was notable for an empathy and delicacy that never became sentimental.
        He was born in 1913 in a tenement in London, one of six children of a carpenter and a charwoman. He left school at 14 and went to work delivering and then developing and printing film for a local merchant. An avid cyclist, he took his first photographs for The Bicycle magazine. He later wrote that using the camera "as an extension of my eyes came naturally to me."
        At the age of 23 he bought himself a Leica, committing himself to the small camera when most Fleet Street photographers were still using large-format equipment. He never took up other technical advances like light meters, range finders or flashbulbs, but he was widely considered a master technician, especially in his use of available light. He began contributing freelance work to Picture Post, which had been founded in 1938, and became its chief photographer in 1941.
        After Picture Post folded in 1957, Mr. Hardy turned down an offer to take pictures for Life and worked for several years in advertising, often using ordinary people as models. In 1964 he bought a farm in Oxted, Surrey, and retired.
        He is survived by his wife, Sheila, and two sons from his first marriage, which ended in divorce.
      