
        Karim Sanjabi, a veteran Iranian politician who fought both the heavy-handed monarchy of Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi and the harsh Islamic fundamentalism of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini that followed, died in exile Tuesday at his home in Carbondale, Ill. He was 90.
        A law professor at Teheran University, he was associated with Mohammed Mossadegh, the nationalist Prime Minister who sought to nationalize the country's vast oil monopoly controlled by British interests. Dr. Mossadegh was ousted in 1951 in a coup engineered by the American and British intelligence services with the aid of the Shah's military.
        Dr. Sanjabi emerged in the late 1970's as the leader of Iran's principal opposition party, the liberal and centrist National Front. With Shahpur Bakhtiar and Mehdi Bazargan he was among the first to criticize the Shah's policies openly.
        As popular unrest began to crest in 1978, Dr. Sanjabi turned down an offer to head a coalition government because the Shah insisted on keeping control of the Army. He tried to strike a balance between the monarchy and the religious opposition led by Ayatollah Khomeini from exile in Paris.
        After the Shah was forced to leave Iran, Ayatollah Khomeini picked Mr. Bazargan as Prime Minister, and Dr. Sanjabi became Foreign Minister at a time of great turbulence. But he resigned from office when the militants and a series of summary trials and executions made collaboration with Ayatollah Khomeini's Government impossible for him.
        Ayatollah Khomeini's strident denunciation of liberals and centrists forced Dr. Sanjabi underground. In 1982 he escaped from Iran to Paris and on to the United States.
        Mr. Bakhtiar, a staunch opponent of the Shah, served as his last Prime Minister and was assassinated in Paris in 1991. Mr. Bazargan died in January in Switzerland, reportedly enroute to the United States for heart surgery.
        Karim Sanjabi was born to the chief of the Kurdish tribe of Sanjabi in western Iran. After the rise of Shah Riza Pahlevi in 1941, Iran entered an era of secular modernization. The Government sent young Sanjabi abroad for six years of studies in Paris, where he earned his doctorate in law.
        Dr. Sanjabi's survivors include his wife of 56 years, Fakhri Ardalan Sanjabi; and four children, Khosrow of Chico, Calif.; Parviz and Maryam, both of Carbondale, and Saeed of Paris.
      