
        Justice Emilio Nunez, who blazed a trail for Hispanic Americans in the judiciary of New York, rising from New York City magistrate to the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital. Mr. Nunez, who lived in Manhattan, was 91.
        After retiring from the bench in 1977, he returned to the private practice of law as senior counsel to the firm of Sullivan & Liapakis of Manhattan, a post he held at the time of his death.
        Justice Nunez's career on the bench began in 1951 when Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri made him the city's first Hispanic judge. He also became the first Hispanic judge on the Court of Special Sessions, on the City Court, on the State Supreme Court and in the Appellate Division.
        He presided over a wide variety of cases, from crimes to labor disputes, including a long strike by the United Federation of Teachers in 1967 and a major walkout by building maintenance workers in 1970.
        In the teachers' strike, he enforced for the first time the Taylor Law's prohibition against strikes by public employees, imposing a 15-day jail sentence on Albert J. Shanker, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, and fining the union $150,000. In the 12th day of the housing strike, he vacated a lower-court order and gave the city authority to restore essential services in buildings where emergencies involving health hazards had been certified.
        Justice Nunez, who was born in Bilbao, Spain, came to the United States at age 11. Without attending college, he received a degree from New York Law School and was admitted to the bar in 1929.
        In the early years of his career, he was counsel for several South American governments and for the Government of Spain. He also served as general counsel for the daily newspaper La Prensa and was vice chairman of the Citizens Commission on the Future of the City of New York, whose chairman was Mayor Robert F. Wagner. He was also a founding member of the Puerto Rican Bar Association.
        Justice Nunez is survived by his wife, the former Carmina Garcia, of Manhattan; two sons, Robert, of Yonkers and Richard, of Manhattan; a daughter, Carmina de Murga of Manhattan, six grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      