
        Dr. Bernard F. Riess, a prominent psychologist whose dismissal from the Hunter College faculty in 1952 for refusal to answer Senate questions in the heyday of McCarthyism was redressed by New York City 30 years later, died July 3 at his home in New Preston, Conn. He was 87.
        In a career that spanned more than 60 years, Dr. Riess was a university teacher, a therapist with private and community-clinic practices, the director of mental health centers, an industrial consultant, the author and editor of scores of articles and books, and a lifelong advocate of progressive causes.
        But it was as a 45-year-old associate professor of psychology and philosophy at Hunter College, where he had worked for 24 years, that Dr. Riess came to wide attention in 1952. Summoned before the Senate Subcommittee on Internal Security, he refused to answer questions about his political beliefs and affiliations, invoking his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination.
        Dr. Riess and several other City University faculty members who had also refused to testify were quickly dismissed by the Board of Higher Education under a provision of the City Charter that provided for the dismissal of any city employee who refused to answer questions before an official body.
        Dr. Riess's son, John, recalled on Saturday that his father had joined the Communist Party around 1930 but had withdrawn in the late 1940's. "He felt he had a right to his belief in Marxism," he said. "He also didn't want to be in a position of having to incriminate others."
        Many teachers, entertainers and others who refused to testify in the anti-Communist witch hunts of the day went through hard times, blackballed and unable to find jobs in their chosen professions. But Dr. Riess -- among the first graduates of the Postgraduate Center for Mental Health in New York and among the first psychologists trained in psychoanalysis -- was an exception.
        In New York and White Plains, and later in Connecticut, he worked as a clinical psychologist and later became director of the Housatonic Mental Health Center, co-founder of the Litchfield Guidance Center and editor of the journal of the Postgraduate Center for Mental Health. He never returned to Hunter College, but he taught at the New School for Social Reserach from 1976 to 1984.
        The laws under which he and nine other City University faculty members were dismissed were declared unconstitional by the Supreme Court in 1967 and 1968, but jurisdictional problems between the city and state, bureaucratic problems and a shortage of funds delayed redress for the dismissed teachers for more than a decade.
        Then in 1982, at a City Hall ceremony attended by some of the former teachers, city officials presented restitution payments and pensions to Dr. Riess and the nine other victims of what the Trustees of the City University called "the shameful era" of McCarthyism in America. Dr. Riess received $129,717.
        Bernard Frank Riess was born in New York City on April 28, 1907. He attended Townsend Harris High School, graduated from City College in 1927 and received a doctorate in psychology from Columbia University in 1934. He joined Hunter College in 1928 as an instructor and later became an associate professor.
        In the 1940's, he was president of the New York College Teachers Union, which was later expelled from the Congress of Industrial Organizations amid allegations of Communist domination. He was later president of the trustees of the American Board of Professional Psychology and of the New York State and Westchester County Psychological Associations.
        The recipient of numerous professional honors, Dr. Riess was the author of 90 major articles on topics ranging from extra-sensory perception to therapeutic issues in psychoanalysis. He continued to receive patients nearly until his death, his family said.
        Dr. Riess's wife, the former Dorothy Lesser, whom he married in 1933, died in 1981. He is survived by two sons, William, of Oakland, Calif., and John, of Seattle, and two grandsons.
      