
        Nevitt Sanford, a psychologist whose response to the rise of the Nazis was to develop scientific methods to study prejudice and hatred, died on Friday in a nursing home in Belfast, Me. He was 86.
        The cause was a heart attack while being treated for a broken hip, said his daughter Jane Sanford of Belfast.
        Dr. Sanford was also the founder of the Wright Institute in Berkeley, Calif., a graduate school in psychology that emphasizes the study of social problems.
        He first gained prominence as a co-author of "The Authoritarian Personality," a study of anti-Semitism published in 1950. His co-authors included two refugees from Nazi persecution, Thomas Adorno and Else Frenkel-Brunswik.
        The book, which became a classic text in psychology, traced the links between children's upbringing and their prejudice in adulthood. While it focused on anti-Semitism, the book also showed that people who were prejudiced against one ethnic, racial or religious group tended to be prejudiced against others.
        Dr. Sanford was among the first to study the interaction between social systems and personality. He wrote about how social conditions could encourage people with dogmatic biases to persecute groups they were prejudiced against.
        "His work was inspired by trying to understand the hatred that caused the Holocaust," said Dr. Susan Fiske, a personality and social psychologist at the University of Massachusetts. "His ideas were seminal, a main taproot of all the later research on prejudice, as well as the field of social psychology."
        Dr. Sanford, who was named a professor of psychology at the University of California at Berkeley in 1940, became part of a cause celebre in the McCarthy era when the university dismissed him and 11 other professors for refusing to sign a loyalty oath in 1950. After leaving Berkeley, he was a research affiliate at the Tavistock Institute for Human Relations in London for a year, and then joined the faculty of Vassar College.
        A decision by the California Supreme Court in 1959 resulted in Dr. Sanford's reinstatement at Berkeley. He left Berkeley in 1961 to become a professor at Stanford University.
        In the 1950's and early 60's he headed a major study of higher education, publishing "The American College" in 1962 and "Where Colleges Fail" in 1967. He wrote that an overemphasis on academic publishing in evaluating professors -- often called the "publish or perish" syndrome -- was leading to a deterioration in their teaching abilities.
        Dr. Sanford was also an early critic of I.Q. tests, saying they were biased in favor of the white middle class. He was also a champion of making college education more accessible to minority students.
        He left Stanford to found the Wright Institute in 1968.
        "Dr. Sanford thought that graduate schools had become too narrow in their thinking, the problems they approached, and their student body," said Peter Dybwad, president of the institute.
        The son and grandson of Baptist ministers, Nevitt Sanford was born in Chatham, Va., in 1909. He attended the University of Virginia, received a master's degree from Columbia University and a Ph.D. in psychology from Harvard University, where he was on the staff of the Harvard Psychological Clinic from 1935 to 1940.
        He was the author or co-author of nearly 200 scholarly articles and more than a dozen books.
        Dr. Sanford's wife, Christine Dickson Sanford, died in 1990.
        Besides his daughter Jane, he is survived by two other daughters, Elizabeth Duven of Templeton, Calif., and Margaret Tanous of Chatham; four sons, David, of El Cerrito, Calif., Robert, of Berkeley, Michael, of Ashland, Ore., and Mark, of Orinda, Calif.; a sister, Eleanor Turner of Axton, Va.; a brother, Jack, of Wilson, N.C., 29 grandchildren and 31 great-grandchildren.
      