
        Alfonso J. Zirpoli, a senior Federal district judge in San Francisco who was known for his commitment to individual rights, died on Monday at his San Francisco home. He was 90.
        President John F. Kennedy named Judge Zirpoli to the bench in the Northern District of California in 1961. He reached senior status in 1975 and continued to work with a reduced caseload until his retirement five years ago.
        He drew national attention in 1974 in the Zebra murders case, so named because investigators communicated their information over the police's broadcast band "Z".
        In the Zebra case more than a dozen white victims were slain at random within a few months. Descriptions supplied by a half-dozen survivors of attacks resulted in two composite sketches that led the police to stop and question some 600 young blacks, dragnet-style.
        Critics complained that the police descriptions were so vague that they would fit just about any young black male except the very tall and very fat.
        On motions filed by the N.A.A.C.P. and the American Civil Liberties Union, Judge Zirpoli stopped the police from using their "profile of the Zebra killer" as the sole reason for stopping a man for questioning. He wrote that the police must have other evidence, which could include conduct that caused suspicion that an individual had committed a crime or was committing one. Five black men were eventually convicted in the case.
        During the Vietnam War, Judge Zirpoli handed down decisions that broadened the right of conscientious objectors to refuse induction. That led President Richard M. Nixon to call him "the worst judge on the Federal bench."
        Before he joined the District Court, Judge Zirpoli was a Democratic Party stalwart. He worked in every Democratic Presidential race from 1928 to the Kennedy-Johnson ticket of 1960, when he served as Northern California campaign chairman.
        A native of Denver, he graduated from the University of California-Berkeley and, in 1928, the University of California Boalt Hall School of Jurisprudence. He went into private practice but over the years also served as an Assistant District Attorney for the City and County of San Francisco and as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District.
        As a practicing lawyer, he founded an indigent defendant program. Until taking the bench in 1961, he handled the appeals of death-row inmates without a fee.
        Judge Zirpoli is survived by two daughters, Sandra de Saint Phalle and Jane Z. Felder, both of San Francisco; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. His wife of more than 50 years, Giselda Campagnoli Zirpoli, died about seven years ago.
      