
        August Belmont 4th, a member of the socially prominent banking and horse racing family and the grandson of the founder of Belmont Park and breeder of the champion Man o' War, died Monday in Easton, Md., where he made his home. He was 86.
        The cause of death was a stroke, the family said.
        August Belmont was raised into a way of life that typified American society in the early years of the century and that combined family business with philanthropy and horse racing.
        His grandfather August Belmont 2d was one of the pioneers of racing in New York. He formed the Westchester Racing Association in 1895 after the demise of the original New York Jockey Club, and he oversaw the construction of Belmont Park, which opened on May 4, 1905 with a crowd of 40,000 watching races that were run clockwise in the European manner.
        The race track was later closed for three years when the Legislature voted to outlaw betting, but it remained the scene of great public events like the international aerial tournament supervised by Wilbur and Orville Wright before 150,000 spectators in 1910. The Belmont track reopened in 1913, and five years later became the New York terminal for the first airmail service between New York and Washington
        Before he died in 1924, August Belmont 2d also became the breeder of the great race horse Man o' War, who won 20 of his 21 races, losing only to a colt aptly named Upset in the Sanford Stakes at Saratoga in 1920.
        His grandson became chairman of the Jockey Club, an honorary trustee of Presbyterian Hospital, a trustee of the American Museum of Natural History and chairman of the American Kennel Club. He also became a partner in the investment banking firm of Dillon, Read & Company and served as president of the company until his retirement in 1971.
        August Belmont 4th also maintained a family tradition when his colt Caveat won the 1983 Belmont Stakes, named in honor of his great-grandfather. The younger Belmont owned the horse in partnership with Jim Ryan and Bob Kirkham, and Caveat became the second of five straight winners of the Belmont Stakes for the renowned trainer Woody Stephens. Mr. Belmont also owned other stakes winners, including Dew Line, Heed and Quadratic. In his honor, the infield flags was lowered to half-staff at Belmont Park yesterday afternoon.
        He is survived by two sons, August Belmont 5th and John Belmont; two daughters, Alice Fisher and Priscilla Upton; two stepchildren, 16 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      