
        Boris Margo, an artist who was part of the Surrealist branch of the New York School, died on July 5 at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 92 and for the last decade had spent his summers in Provincetown, Mass., and Venice, Fla.
        The cause was respiratory complications after surgery, said his nephew Stanley Zimiles of Lido Beach, L.I.
        Born in Volochisk in Ukraine, Mr. Margo studied at the Polytechnic of Art in Odessa and with the eccentric Cubist-Surrealist painter Pavel Filonov in what was then Leningrad.
        Mr. Margo immigrated to New York City in 1930, gradually becoming a member of a circle of artists that included Arshile Gorky, Milton Avery and Mark Rothko. Initially too poor to buy paints, he worked in montage, selecting fragments from magazines in a process of chance and free association. An incessant experimenter, he developed the technique of "decalcomania," a process made famous by the Surrealist painter Max Ernst in which liquid paint on one surface is transferred under pressure to another. He also invented the cellocut, a forerunner of the collograph and other high-relief printmaking processes.
        Like many members of his generation, Mr. Margo worked during the 1930's from a naturalistic Surrealism to a style based on organic and biomorphic forms. His mature style emerged in the early 40's: a semi-abstract blending of shapes and atmospheric spaces notable for intricacy and warm flushes of color. The advent of Abstract Expressionism, which overshadowed his career, did not deter him from this style, although in the 50's and 60's he experimented with bas-relief and assemblage sculptures. In 1968 he had a stroke that left him unable to work.
        Mr. Margo was represented by the Betty Parsons Gallery from 1947 to 1962 and was the subject of several retrospectives, most recently at the Michael Rosenfeld Gallery in 1993. His work is in dozens of public collections across the country, including the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, the Art Institute of Chicago and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.
        In addition to his nephew Stanley, he is survived by a brother, David, of Manhattan, and another nephew, Murray Zimiles of Millerton, N.Y.
        Correction:  July 25, 1995, Tuesday
        An obituary on July 13 about the painter Boris Margo omitted a reference to his wife of nearly 40 years, who died in 1979. She was Jan Gelb, a painter and printmaker. The obituary also omitted the surname of Mr. Margo's brother. He is David Margolis, not Margo.
      