
        Max O. Urbahn, a prolific architect of government buildings whose work included the design of what is generally believed to be the largest structure in the world, the Vehicle Assembly Building at Cape Canaveral, Fla., died on Sunday at his home in Stonington, Conn. He was 83.
        Mr. Urbahn, who had his own firm in New York City from 1946 until 1978, designed buildings for all three United States military services, the Coast Guard, and various Federal agencies. NASA was his client for the Vehicle Assembly Building, a vast box designed in 1965 to shelter the Saturn rockets that powered American astronauts to the moon.
        Roughly as high as a 50-story skyscraper and nearly as wide across, the building contains 125 million cubic feet of space, a volume large enough to enclose the Great Pyramid of Cheops in Egypt. It is less a work of architecture in the artistic sense than a wonder of engineering, enclosing more continuous space than any other structure in the world.
        Mr. Urbahn had no illusions that the building would be memorable for anything other than its size. In an interview with The New York Times when it was under construction, he called it "little more than a slick, polished box," and spoke mainly about the engineering and administrative challenges involved in creating a building that covered eight acres and required doors more than 400 feet high.
        In New York City, Mr. Urbahn's most prominent structure is a 42-story skyscraper of precast concrete at 909 Third Avenue, between 54th and 55th Streets, completed in 1967, which combines the Franklin D. Roosevelt postal station with an office tower.
        Mr. Urbahn served as president of the American Institute of Architects in 1972 and had been a fellow of the institute since 1966.
        He was born in Burscheid, Germany on Feb. 2, 1912, and studied architecture at the University of Illinois and Yale University. His career began in 1938 at the firm of John Russell Pope, where he worked on the team that designed the National Gallery of Art and the Jefferson Memorial in Washington. Later he became the chief designer in the New York office of Holabird & Root, the prominent Chicago firm. He established his own firm, originally Reisner & Urbahn, in 1946.
        A pioneer in large projects involving consortia of architecture and engineering firms, Mr. Urbahn led four firms in designing and building the Vehicle Assembly Building and the related Launch Control Center complex at Cape Canaveral, a project that took more than four years. His firm also designed Junior High School 144 and several other public schools and health-care buildings in New York City, and was part of a joint venture of architecture firms that created the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory complex at Champaign, Ill.
        He is survived by his wife, Bess, and three sons, Eric, of Nantucket, Mass.; Max 3d, of McLean, Va., and John, of Belmont, Mass.; a sister, Elly Bergmann of Wautwatosa, Wis., and three grandchildren.
      