
        Dr. George G. Glenner, a leading researcher into the molecular structure of the protein amyloid and its relation to Alzheimer's disease, died on Wednesday at his home in San Diego. He was 67.
        The cause was systemic senile amyloidosis, said the Medical School of the University of California at San Diego, where Dr. Glenner was a senior scientist. Systemic senile amyloidosis is a rare disease caused by the protein amyloid, a form of which is also linked to Alzheimer's disease.
        The existence of amyloid, which derives from the Greek word meaning starch-like, had been known for well over a century, but its properties remained a mystery and it was considered a medical curiosity. Dr. Glenner and a few colleagues began to explore its nature and functions in the 1960's.
        Amyloid turned out to be a protein that plays a role in producing senility, which forces hundreds of thousands of the elderly to live under custodial care. Dr. Glenner pointed the way to molecular biologists in 1984 with a seminal publication in which he analyzed the purified beta amyloid protein linked to Alzheimer's disease.
        The amyloidosis to which he fell victim causes the waxy protein to build up in organs and tissues. Almost all organs are affected, and there is no known cure. Dr. Glenner's death came as the buildup blocked the blood vessels of his heart.
        Even while fighting his illness, Dr. Glenner continued to contribute to knowledge about Alzheimer's disease.
        "As a pioneer in Alzheimer's research, George Glenner opened important pathways that are leading others to discover the answers that one day will arrest this horrible disease," said Edward F. Truschke, president of the National Alzheimer's Association.
        George Geiger Glenner was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Johns Hopkins University, where he also received his medical degree in 1954. He studied surgery and pathology at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York and the Mallory Institute at Boston City Hospital.
        From 1968 to 1980 he worked at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., as chief of the section of molecular pathology. The University of California at San Diego appointed him an attending physician at the Medical School and a research pathologist.
        Dr. Glenner is survived by his wife of over 40 years, Joyce Saunders Glenner; a son, Jonathan S., of Chicago; three daughters, Amanda Hixon of Amherst, Mass., Sarah Glenner of Silver Spring, Md., and Shelley Perry of San Diego; and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 20, 1995, Thursday
        An obituary on Friday about Dr. George G. Glenner, a researcher on Alzheimer's disease, misidentified his surviving wife. She is Joy A. Glenner, to whom he was married for 15 years, not Joyce Saunders, from whom he was divorced.
      