
        Morris Chase, a former welfare official who supervised New York City's efforts to deal with the homeless in the 1960's, took his life in San Francisco on Wednesday. He was 90.
        His daughter, Alice Kaufman, said her father, who had cancer, drowned in San Francisco Bay after leaving a note and wading into the water off the Embarcadero.
        A graduate of City College in Manhattan with a degree from the Yale School of Alcohol Studies, he served after World War II as principal welfare officer for the displaced-person program of the United Nations. Mr. Chase was a career social worker who became Deputy Commissioner of the Department of Welfare under Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
        In 1963, he became what amounted to the city's homeless czar when he was put in charge of Operation Bowery, an eight-agency effort charged with coordinating services to derelicts, as homeless men were known at the time, a group so drawn to the Bowery that the Lower East Side thoroughfare was widely known as the city's Skid Row.
        Mr. Chase expanded detoxification centers for the homeless and replaced privately run flop houses with city shelters. He also commissioned a demographic study that detected some ominous trends, including the spread of homelessness beyond the Bowery as younger, more aggressive derelicts posed a threat to the older ones.
        Among other things, the 1969 report found that as the Bowery's derelict population declined from some 12,000 in 1949 to 4,800 in 1967, the percentage of black derelicts living on the 20-block avenue had more than tripled, rising from 15 percent to about a third of the total.
        The newcomers, the report found, also tended to be younger than other derelicts. Or, as Mr. Chase summed it up, citing the lack of opportunities among the black population: "Negro derelicts reach the last stop quicker."
        For all his efforts, Mr. Chase did not stem the tide.
        The 1969 study also put the lie to a persistent myth. "The notion that the Bowery is full of professional men who have hit the skids is erroneous," Mr. Chase said. Instead, he said, most of the derelicts had lived on the margins of society throughout their lives.
        After his retirement, Mr. Chase moved to Los Angeles, where a new job put the lie to another myth. He spent a decade working for Meals on Wheels in Beverly Hills. "They have a lot of shut-ins there," his daughter said yesterday.
        Mr. Chase, whose impulse for social work was ingrained, spent his last years in San Francisco, where he was a volunteer for Meals on Wheels.
        In addition to his daughter, of San Francisco, Mr. Chase is survived by two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      