
        Thomas Gibbons Aylesworth, the author of more than 100 books written mostly for children and young adults, died on Thursday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 67.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Hana Umlauf Lane, a family friend and the editor of some of his books.
        His work covered a wide range of topics, from movie monsters to the environment, from baseball to body language. Most of the dozens of titles still in print are thumbnail sketches of the country's regions and states written for the State Reports and Let's Discover the States series published by Chelsea House of New York.
        Other books in print included Encyclopedia of Baseball Managers (1990), "Best of Warner Brothers" (1993), "Government and the Environment" (1990), "Moving Continents: Our Changing Earth" (1990) and and The Kids' World Almanac of Baseball (1933).
        Ms. Lane said Mr. Aylesworth turned in the manuscript for the third revised edition of his baseball almanac just two weeks ago. He also collaborated on autobiographies with Pete Rose, Alex Karras and Bruce Jenner.
        Born in Valparaiso, Ind., Mr. Aylesworth earned bachelor's and master's degrees at Indiana University and a doctorate at Ohio State University. He started his career as a high-school teacher in Illinois and over the years taught science, writing and education at the high school and college level.
        He was a senior editor at Doubleday in New York from 1964 to 1980, specializing in young-adult books, and editor in chief of Bison Books in Greenwich, Conn., from 1981 to 1986. Before joining Doubleday he was a senior editor at Current Science magazine. He contributed to magazines and newspapers and belonged to the New York Academy of Science.
        Writing, he once said, is hard work, "but there is nothing more ego-building than seeing your name in print."
        He is survived by his wife and occasional co-author, Virginia Boelter Aylesworth; a daughter, Carol Jean Aylesworth of Stamford; a son, Thomas P., of Lancaster, Pa.; and his mother, Margaret Aylesworth of Valparaiso.
      