
        Sir Stephen Spender, the British poet, critic and novelist, died yesterday at St. Mary's Hospital in London. He was 86.
        He had been taken to the hospital after collapsing at his home in north London, a spokesman for the hospital said.
        In the 1930's, Stephen Spender was one of a small group of young poets who transformed English letters by insisting that poetry be linked to political and social concerns and other aspects of the larger world.
        Mr. Spender drew wide attention in 1930, when his "Twenty Poems" was published; two years later, some of his poems and those by W. H. Auden, C. Day Lewis and others were included in an anthology, "New Signatures," published by Leonard and Virginia Woolf's Hogarth Press.
        Along with Mr. Spender, Auden, Louis MacNeice and a few others came to be known as the Oxford poets, since they had all studied there around the same time.
        Sometimes Mr. Spender was described as "Shelleyan" because of the fervor of his call for sweeping change and of his lyrical way with words. Because of that lyricism, coupled with his good looks, he was also once labeled "the Rupert Brooke of the Depression," in a barbed reference to the British war poet who died during World War I.
        Mr. Spender often wrote about the world around him -- which he saw with sorrow and anger. In 1934, he wrote a long narrative poem, "Vienna," about a recent Socialist uprising in that city. In "The Landscape Near an Aerodrome" he wrote about just that, almost lovingly describing the descent of a plane with "furred antennae feeling its huge path/ Through dusk."
        Later, during World War II, he wrote of his feelings about politics in a series of articles on "Books and the War." He began one article with these words:
        "We are living in a political age. That is to say political beliefs and events play a part in the lives of contemporaries which religious and spectacular warnings of the working out of doom amongst the great used to play in the past.
        "Poets are faced, then, with the problem of transforming into the comprehensive terms of the imagination the chaos of this politically obsessed world."
        Amid "shattering material events, such as wars and revolutions," he wrote, "the problem is to understand the nature of these events and transform them into a lucid language of the imagination, where they exist in their own right, coherent visions independent of reality, but nevertheless reflecting the truth of reality."
        Although Mr. Spender's poetry won less renown than his friend Auden's, his work has been widely anthologized. Earlier, in the late 1920's, Mr. MacNeice described Mr. Spender as "redeeming the world by introspection," and he remained involved with the world and its continuing need for redemption in his poetry and prose, as critic and commentator. And his poems appeared widely in anthologies, though he gained less worldly renown than did his friend Auden. Oxford Friendships, Wartime Politics
        Stephen Harold Spender was born on Feb. 28, 1909 in London, into a family that was in comfortable but not, according to his autobiography, particularly happy circumstances. His mother died when he was 12 and his father not many years later; Stephen and his three siblings were then under the care of their maternal grandmother, Hilda Schuster. He attended schools in Norfolk and London and went on to University College at Oxford.
        There he met Mr. MacNeice, Auden, Isaiah Berlin and Christopher Isherwood, who became his friends and literary colleagues. He left Oxford in 1931 to devote himself entirely to poetry writing, with the aid of a small independent income. He went frequently to Germany, where he spent time with Isherwood, whose experiences of that era led eventually to his Berlin stories and the hit play "I Am a Camera."
        Mr. Spender's first prose book was a 1934 volume of essays, "The Destructive Element," commenting on the poetry of T. S. Eliot, James Joyce, W. B. Yeats and others. His first collection of short stories, "The Burning Cactus," came out in 1936. The following year saw the publication of his "Forward From Liberalism," an exposition of his political thinking, which led to an invitation to join the British Communist Party.
        It was an association that lasted a few short weeks. "I wrote something for The Daily Worker attacking the party," he recalled later, "and that was the last I heard of my membership." Years later, in 1950, he joined Arthur Koestler, Andre Gide and others in a book of essays, "The God That Failed," relating their disillusionment with Communism.
        As it was for many of his contemporaries, the Spanish Civil War was a searing experience for Mr. Spender, who went to Spain in 1937, evading a British Foreign Office ban on visas, as a delegate to an International Writers' Congress in Barcelona.
        Later that year, he edited "Poems for Spain" with John Lehmann, and in 1938 came a five-act poetic play by Mr. Spender about Nazi Germany, "Trial of a Judge."
        In 1939, he was one of the founders of the literary magazine Horizon; he served as co-editor, with Cyril Connolly, until 1941.
        Mr. Spender was a pacifist, and he served as a fireman in London during most of the years of World War II. He also continued to write and to have works published as the war went on, including two collections of poems, as well as his translations of work by other poets, including Rainer Maria Rilke and Federico Garcia Lorca.
        Just after the war, in 1946, there appeared Mr. Spender's book "European Witness," which included an analysis of the situation of German intellectuals under Hitler. One of his most acclaimed poems, "Elegy for Margaret," dedicated to his terminally ill sister-in-law, was published the same year in "Poems of Dedication."
        His 1949 volume of verse, "Edge of Being: Poems," was less well received by the critics. His autobiography, "World Within World," also received mixed reviews, but critics agreed that it was worth reading, if only for its incisive sketches of the stars of the British literary world, like this brief, intimate glimpse of T. S. Eliot:
        "When Eliot orders a drink or inclines over the menu to consider a meal the effect is such as to produce a hush. It is a priestly act as he says in a grave voice: 'Now will you have a turtle soup (I doubt whether it will be made from real turtle) or green pea soup?' But he is also a connoisseur who has strong views about wines, and still more, cheese." Journals, Critics And a Final Dispute
        Mr. Spender continued to write prose -- like "Learning Laughter," about a trip to Israel -- as well as poetry, and his collected poems were published in 1953.
        In that same year, he and Irving Kristol founded Encounter, an anti-Communist intellectual journal that soon wielded influence far out of proportion to its small (about 40,000) circulation. It published everyone from Nancy Mitford to Mr. Koestler on topics ranging from semantic snobbery to Britain's future.
        In 1967, Mr. Spender cut his ties to the magazine when it was disclosed that it had been partly supported by funds supplied indirectly by the American Central Intelligence Agency.
        His poetry, meanwhile, was being viewed by critics in a variety of ways. The Times Literary Supplement, in 1971, asked whether it did not make "better sense" to look at his work as basically personal introspection, "as attempts at redemptive and quasi-religious self-searching, than it ever did to see them as coming primarily from social or political concerns.
        "Express trains, pylons, the unemployed at street corners, the burning of the Reichstag or the Spanish Civil War -- all were merely grit for Spender's insatiably self-regarding oyster. But for some years the question has been about the quality of the pearls produced."
        The critic David Daiches, writing in 1958, cited what he called Mr. Spender's "limited range" but praised his "quiet control in descriptive or confessional verse that has its own appeal."
        After a long silence -- since 1949 -- Mr. Spender published a volume of new poems, "The Generous Days," in 1972, and one critic, Derek Stanford, had this to say:
        "The pressure, as with many poets as they grow older, is clearly operating less frequently and strongly. Even so, there are some half-dozen pieces so right, or true, or personally authentic (the criterion of being well-written is not one we think of as applying to Spender) that the book is justified by their existence."
        In later years, Mr. Spender produced far more prose than poetry, including "The Creative Element, A Study of Vision, Despair and Orthodoxy Among Some Modern Writers" (1953); a sympathetic look at student rebellion, "The Year of the Young Rebels" (1969); "Love-Hate Relations: English and American Sensibilities" and "The Thirties and After"(1978).
        In 1979 one interviewer described Mr. Spender this way:
        "Stephen Spender appears eternally youthful-looking, even in his 70's, with some rose in his cheeks, his hair full and flying, and he also seems slightly aloof. But what comes across is a sense of the past in him; his great period of writing -- prewar England, the triumvirate of Auden, Isherwood, Spender -- sticks the past on him. Now, he seems to be summing up his life in tributes, introductions and writings that remain quite elegant."
        In 1993, Viking published a novel by David Leavitt, "While England Sleeps," and around that time, Sir Stephen -- as he was by then -- asserted that Mr. Leavitt had "plagiarized my life" and charged that the novel was a badly disguised account of his own life. He also threatened a lawsuit, contending that the copyright of his 1951 autobiography, "World Within World," had been breached.
        Subsequently, Mr. Leavitt made 17 editorial changes in the novel's text, and a revised edition of the novel is to be published by Houghton Mifflin this fall.
        In addition to writing, Mr. Spender lectured widely, both on behalf of the British Council in Europe and Asia and at universities in the United States. He became a professor of English literature at University College of London University in 1970; in 1962 he was named a Commander of the British Empire and in 1971, was awarded the Queen's Gold Medal for Poetry.
        Mr. Spender held several honorary degrees and in 1965, became the first non-American to serve as Consultant in Poetry in English to the Library of Congress.
        Mr. Spender's first marriage, to Agnes Marie Pearn, ended in divorce in 1939. In 1941 he married Natasha Litvin, a pianist. She and their son, Matthew Francis, and their daughter, Elizabeth, survive. A Voice of Compassion With a Sense of History
        The secret of these hills was stone, and cottages
        Of that stone made,
        And crumbling roads
        That turned on sudden hidden villages
        Now over these small hills, they have built the concrete
        That trails black wire
        Pylons, those pillars
        Bare like nude giant girls that have no secret.
        The valley with its gilt and evening look
        And the green chestnut
        Of customary root,
        Are mocked dry like the parched bed of a brook.
        But far above and far as sight endures
        Like whips of anger
        With lightning's danger
        There runs the quick perspective of the future.
        This dwarfs our emerald country by its trek
        So tall with prophecy
        Dreaming of cities
        Where often clouds shall lean their swan-white neck.
        "The Pylons" ("Selected Poems  by Stephen Spender," Random House, 1964)  The light in the window seemed perpetual
        When you stayed in the high room for me;
        It glowed above the trees through leaves
        Like my certainty.
        The light is fallen and you are hidden
        In sunbright peninsulas of the sword:
        Torn like leaves through Europe is the peace
        That through us flowed.
        Now I climb up alone to the high room
        Above the darkened square
        Where among stones and roots, the other
        Unshattered lovers are.
        "The Room Above the Square"  ("Selected Poems")  A stopwatch and an ordnance map.
        At five a man fell to the ground
        And the watch flew off his wrist
        Like a moon struck from the earth
        Marking a blank time that stares
        On the tides of change beneath.
        All under the olive trees.
        A stopwatch and an ordnance map.
        He stayed faithfully in that place
        From his living comrade split
        By dividers of the bullet
        Opening wide the distances
        Of his final loneliness.
        All under the olive trees.
        A stopwatch and an ordnance map.
        And the bones are fixed at five
        Under the moon's timelessness;
        But another who lives on
        Wears within his heart forever
        Space split open by the bullet.
        All under the olive trees.
        "A Stopwatch and an Ordnance Map"  Dedicated to Samuel Barber  ("Selected Poems")  Sometimes, apart in sleep, by chance,
        You fall out of my arms, alone,
        Into the chaos of your separate trance.
        My eyes gaze through your forehead, through the bone,
        And see where in your sleep distress has torn
        Its path, which on your lips is shown
        And on your hands and in your dream forlorn.
        Restless, you turn to me and press
        Those timid words against my ear
        Which thunder at my heart like stones.
        "Mercy," you plead, Then "Who can bless?"
        You ask. "I am pursued by Time," you moan.
        I watch that precipice of fear
        You tread, naked in naked distress.
        To that deep care we are committed
        Beneath the wildness of our flesh
        And shuddering horror of our dream,
        Where unmasked agony is permitted.
        Our bodies, stripped of clothes that seem,
        And our souls, stripped of beauty's mesh,
        Meet their true selves, their charms outwitted.
        This pure trance is the oracle
        That speaks no language but the heart
        Our angel with our devil meets
        In the atrocious dark nor do they part
        But each forgives and greets,
        And their mutual terrors heal
        Within our married miracle.
        "The Trance" ("Selected Poems")
      