
        Paul Jackson Kramer, a Duke University authority on plant physiology, died last Wednesday at the health center of the Carolina Meadows retirement community in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 91 and had lived in Durham, N.C., until seven years ago.
        Dr. Kramer taught at Duke from 1931 until he retired in 1974 as James B. Duke Professor emeritus.
        His research covered such areas as the absorption of water by plants, physiology of trees, effects of environmental factors on plants and nuclear magnetic resonance-imaging of plant structures. His "Plant and Water Soil Relationships" (McGraw-Hill, 1949) remained a standard textbook for decades.
        In that book he demonstrated that two mechanisms are at work in water uptake by plants, depending upon how quickly the plants are transpiring, or giving off moisture. He showed the importance of taking plant water stress into account when making correlations between soil moisture and plant growth. Using radioactively labeled elements he found that the maximum absorption in roots does not take place at the tip but at a spot behind it.
        He collaborated with Theodore Kozlowski to update an earlier joint work of 1960, "The Physiology of Woody Plants" (Academic Press, 1979). He edited "Water Relations of Plants" (Academic Press, 1983). Both books are still in print.
        Dr. Kramer was instrumental in persuading the Federal Government to situate its phytotron at Duke, where it serves as a national center. A large building, it contains separate chambers adjustable to mimic any environment and climate, from desert to rain forest, to study the growth of plants.
        Born in Brookville, Ind., he graduated from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, and received his Ph.D. in plant physiology at Ohio State University in 1931, the year he joined the Duke faculty as an instructor. Among his many honors were his election to membership in the National Academy of Sciences, the Distinguished Service Award of the American Institute of Biological Sciences and honorary degrees from universities as far away as the Sorbonne in Paris.
        Dr. Kramer is survived by his wife of 64 years, Edith Vance Kramer; a daughter, Jean Findeis of Washington; a son, Richard of Philadelphia; four grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      