
        Harry Guardino, the tough-talking actor who supported himself by working at odd jobs before establishing a career in movies and television and on the stage, died yesterday at Desert Hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 69.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Lee Snellings, Riverside County's supervising deputy coroner.
        Mr. Guardino co-starred with Cary Grant and Sophia Loren in "Houseboat," the 1958 film for which he won the Foreign Critics' Prize. He won a Golden Globe nomination as best supporting actor for his role in "The Pigeon That Took Rome" in 1962.
        His other film credits include "Flesh and Fury" (1952), "Pork Chop Hill" (1959), "King of Kings" (1961), "Hell Is for Heros" (1962), "Madigan" (1968); "Lovers and Other Strangers" (1970) and "Dirty Harry" and "Red Sky at Morning," both released in 1971.
        Mr. Guardino starred in the 1973-74 season of "Perry Mason" on CBS-TV, playing Hamilton Burger, the dogged but endlessly frustrated prosecutor, and he played a journalist in "The Reporter," also on CBS, for one season in the 1960's.
        He also acted frequently in "Playhouse 90" and "Alcoa Theater," both live television dramatic series of the 1950's, and in recent years was often seen in "Murder, She Wrote," co-starring with Angela Lansbury.
        In 1981, Mr. Guardino starred with Lauren Bacall in the Broadway musical-comedy based on the 1942 movie "Woman of the Year," in which Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy co-starred. "I love this show," Mr. Guardino said at the time. He enjoyed good reviews for his role as Miss Bacall's leading man, and he also enjoyed an offstage romance with his co-star.
        Mr. Guardino was born on Manhattan's Lower East Side, grew up in Brooklyn and began acting at 12 in shows staged by the Police Athletic League. He quit high school to help his parents and five siblings. His first job was unloading flatcars for the New York Central Railroad.
        He joined the Navy in World War II and, as a gunner's mate, took part in the Iwo Jima and Okinawa campaigns. After he was discharged he enrolled in New York's Dramatic Workshop.
        At various times, Mr. Guardino worked as a truck driver, house painter, carpenter, usher, diswasher and gas station attendant.
        Surviving are his wife, Elyssa; three sons, Michael of Los Angeles, and Paul and Gregory, both of Palm Springs; a daughter, Michele, of San Diego; two brothers, Joseph and Edward, of Los Angeles; two sisters, Pauline Venditto of Banning, Calif., and Adelaide Sacchi of Knoxville, Tenn., and one grandson.
        Correction:  July 24, 1995, Monday
        An obituary of the actor Harry Guardino on Tuesday included an incorrect reference to Lauren Bacall in some editions. She starred with Mr. Guardino in the 1981 musical comedy "Woman of the Year," but it was Katharine Hepburn, not Ms. Bacall, who starred in the 1942 movie of the same name.
      