
        William H. Lane, a collector of 20th-century American art and photography, died on Saturday at the Apple Valley Continuing Care Center in Ayer, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Lunenburg, Mass.
        He died after a long illness, said Theodore E. Stebbins Jr., the curator of American paintings at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts.
        Mr. Lane was born in Leominster, Mass., in 1914 and attended the Tabor Academy and Harvard University, where he studied geology. He left college after three years when his father died, to take over as president of the Standard Pyroxaloid Corporation in Leominster, which became successful in the plastics field.
        Mr. Lane was known for his discerning eye and passion for art and music. He possessed an encyclopedic knowledge of opera, and for several years during the 1950's he worked as manager for the tenor Roland Hayes.
        He began collecting American art in 1951, concentrating on the work of such artists as Georgia O'Keeffe, Marsden Hartley, Arthur Dove, Stuart Davis, Franz Kline and Hans Hofmann. He built his collection on regular trips to New York City, where he would fill his station wagon with paintings; if a picture didn't fit, he would not buy it. In 1953, he established the William H. Lane Foundation in Leominster, and in the next 40 years he organized and circulated 30 exhibitions of works from his collection among small museums in New England.
        Mr. Lane began collecting photography in the 1960's. His first major purchase was the Charles Sheeler estate in 1965; he later acquired large collections of the work of Edward Weston, Ansel Adams, Brett Weston and others.
        An exhibition of Mr. Lane's paintings was held at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts in 1983. In 1990, he gave the museum a group of 75 paintings, most of them considered major works, which are displayed in a gallery renamed in his honor.
        He is survived by his wife of 31 years, the former Sandra Baker, and his sister, Mildred F. Shapira of Midland, Tex.
      