
        Murray Riese, the younger of the redoubtable Riese brothers, who blanketed Manhattan with fast-food restaurants, died on Tuesday at his home in Great Neck, L.I. The Riese brothers were widely credited with developing the concept of the food court, a cluster of fast-food restaurants.
        At his death, Mr. Riese, who was 73, was chairman of the privately held Riese Organization, which operates almost 200 restaurants in New York, many of them national franchises like T.G.I. Friday's, Houlihan's and Dunkin' Donuts.
        The cause of death was cancer, said his son, Dennis, who took over as the company's president and majority shareholder three years ago.
        Until his brother, Irving, died in 1990, Mr. Riese was half of a fraternal tandem that created a succession of revolutions in the Manhattan restaurant business. Irving was the brother who concentrated on storefront operations, while Murray was the idea and money man.
        Beginning with a single luncheonette in 1940, they built a restaurant and real-estate empire that at one time owned or controlled more than 300 restaurants and fed half a million New Yorkers a day.
        The scope of their operation -- and the long-term leases they held at virtually every prime intersection in Manhattan -- gave them such power that they were able to turn the tables on national fast-food franchisers.
        The franchisers had historically barred their licensees from owning any other franchises, let alone those of direct rivals, but when the franchise companies began to move into Manhattan they found they had no other choice. The Rieses, who once estimated that they controlled 80 percent of the city's rail and bus terminal restaurants, held so many prime locations they were able to deal from strength.
        "The Rieses were the first to hold multiple franchises," Dennis Riese said, noting that at one time the company operated several rival ice cream franchises simultaneously and had Famous Amos, David's and Mrs. Fields cookie outlets.
        If the franchise companies were dismayed when they were forced to share their Manhattan franchisee with other national brands, they were aghast when the Rieses began putting different franchise operations in the same space.
        In 1982, when Marriott, which then owned the Roy Rogers chain, learned that the Rieses planned to shoehorn a Pizza Hut and a Haagen-Dazs ice cream outlet into a Roy Rogers restaurant the Rieses were opening in Times Square, Dennis Riese recalled, "they sued us."
        The Rieses won, and went on to cluster other restaurants, some containing as many as eight different franchises. Multiple-brand food courts are now widespread.
        Mr. Riese was born in Harlem. A high school dropout, he and his brother went to work as dishwashers in 1936. By 1940, they had scraped together the $500 down payment for a $8,500 luncheonette at 15 East 40th Street. When they sold it four years later for $38,000, including a $10,000 cash payment, Mr. Riese had an epiphany: "Why sell a sandwich for a 10-cents profit when you can sell a restaurant for $10,000?"
        Armed with that insight, the brothers went on a buying-and-selling spree that changed the face of Manhattan, acquiring, revamping and disposing of such venerable chains as Schrafft's and Longchamps.
        It was nothing for the brothers to close a restaurant on Friday and reopen it on Monday under another name.
        In the early 1950's, the Internal Revenue Service ruled that the brothers, who estimated they had bought and sold 5,000 restaurants, were really brokers who were not entitled to treat their profits as capital gains, which were taxed at a lower rate, unless they owned a restaurant at least three years. So they promptly shifted gears and became restaurateurs.
        Mr. Riese contributed to Meals on Wheels and the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Roslyn, L.I., he is survived by his wife, Anita; another son, Richard, of Sarasota, Fla., and two granddaughters.
      