
        Judge Dudley B. Bonsal, a senior United States district judge for the Southern District of New York and a former president of the New York City Bar Association, died on Saturday at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 88.
        Judge Bonsal (pronounced BON-sel) joined the bench in 1961, sitting in the courthouse at Foley Square in Manhattan. He acquired senior status 15 years later and resigned from regular case duty when he was 85.
        As a member of the firm of Curtis, Mallet-Provost, Colt & Mosle, he was president of the bar association from 1958 to 1960. In 1956, he gained widespread attention as chairman of a bar association panel that produced a report urging due-process reforms in the Federal civilian security risk program.
        The program, set up by President Harry S. Truman and enlarged by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, was criticized as being often applied with rigidity and without necessary concern for the demands of individual freedom.
        Liberty, the report said, must be upheld not only in the United States but also as "a continuing appeal to the oppressed in every land."
        Judge Bonsal also showed concern for the oppressed in a bribery case 20 years later, Sheldon H. Elsen, a trial lawyer and former vice president of the city bar association, recalled yesterday.
        "I had a case involving a guy who had come out of a Nazi concentration camp in Europe, and he paid five hundred bucks to an I.R.S. agent," Mr. Elsen said. "He pled guilty, and the judge gave him a very light sentence. The judge said, 'After what this man has been through, you have to make allowances.' "
        Judge Bonsal presided over a wide range of cases. In 1970, applying a new legal standard laid down by the Court of Appeals, he ruled that a news release issued by the Texas Gulf Sulphur Company in 1964 had been "misleading to the reasonable investor."
        The release was about Texas Gulf exploration activities in Canada. In 1965, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission charged that it was false and deceptive and that certain individuals used inside information to profit on trading in securities of the company. To some investors, the release had seemed to minimize rumors about what turned out to be a major ore discovery.
        Judge Bonsal was born in Bedford, graduated from Dartmouth College and, in 1930, from Harvard Law School. As a lawyer, he concentrated on private international law.
        He married Lois Abbott Worrall in 1931; she died in 1981. He is survived by his second wife, the former Lucia Turner Faithfull, whom he married in 1983; a daughter, Lois Osler of Naples, Fla.; a son, Stephen, of Riverside, Conn.; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      