
        Edward F. Johnson, the founder and director of the Johnson Redbook Service, which had grown from a typical brokerage firm analyst's report into an influential retailing research publication, died on Saturday in Brick Township, N.J. He was 73 and was also the Mayor of Bay Head, N.J.
        The cause of death was complications related to a brain aneurysm, a spokesman for Johnson Redbook, a division of Lynch Jones & Ryan, a New York brokerage firm, said yesterday.
        Johnson Redbook provides weekly statistics on retail sales that are widely followed by Wall Street bond traders far beyond Mr. Johnson's own firm as an important economic indicator. Mr. Johnson was known for his blunt and straightforward opinions about trends in retailing, and his service was the only one that provided confidential industrywide statistics. For this reason, Mr. Johnson's weekly reports were viewed as an important sign of the future health of the nation's economy.
        Mr. Johnson's service, which got its name from a red notebook that he used to collect data, was founded in 1970. He joined Lynch Jones & Ryan in 1991 and, before that, worked at Prescott, Ball & Turben for more than 20 years. Mr. Johnson's views about retailing trends and about specific companies in the apparel, retail and textile industries were considered influential on Wall Street. As an analyst, he was frequently quoted, especially as the retailing industry was buffeted in the last decade by mergers and bankruptcies.
        Mr. Johnson graduated from the Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, N.J., and Cornell University. He was an officer in World War II, serving as captain of a B-24 bomber, based in Italy, and an officer of the Korean War. In 1952, he joined the Van Alstyne Noel Company, a brokerage firm, as a partner and later spent more than 40 years as a retailing analyst. He also followed the chemical industry throughout his career.
        Mr. Johnson is survived by his wife, Janet Shearer Johnson; six children, Susan Johnson of Ridgefield, N.J.; Keats Landis of Piedmont, Calif.; Kate Johnson of Oakland, Calif.; Kimball Johnson of Denver; David Johnson of Phippsburgh, Me., and Edward, Jr., of Peru, Vt.; four stepchildren, Bari Edwards of Short Hills, N.J.; Gail Shearer of Bethesda, Md.; Mark Shearer of Tokyo, Japan, and Suzanne Whitehorn of Chatham, N.J.; two brothers, Tristam Johnson of Princeton, N.J. and Burgess Johnson, and seven grandchildren.
      