
        Dr. Thomas E. Morgan, a longtime Democratic member of Congress who had championed bipartisanship as head of the House Committee on International Relations for 18 years, died on Monday in Greene County Memorial Hospital in Waynesburg, Pa. He was 88 and lived in Fredericktown, Pa.
        For much of his 32-year tenure, Dr. Morgan was the only practicing physician in Congress. His medical skills came into play on March 1, 1954, when four Puerto Rican nationalists, firing from a spectators' gallery, sprayed the House chamber with bullets, wounding five members. "Doc" Morgan, as he was affectionately known, applied bandages and in one case a tourniquet to the victims.
        An imposing figure, he was 6 feet 4 inches tall and weighed 240 pounds. After retiring from politics in 1976, he continued to practice medicine until he was 80 in Fredericktown, a community of 1,237 people in southwestern Pennsylvania, where he maintained a large house "with 67 doors" overlooking the Monongahela River.
        Dr. Morgan became interested in politics when he was a youth. He served on the Fredericktown City Council in the 1930's but quit when it interfered with his medical practice. When the Democratic leadership for Pennsylvania's 24th Congressional District asked him to run for Congress in 1944, he accepted and won handily; he was re-elected to each succeeding Congress until he retired.
        Dr. Morgan was named chairman of what was then called the House Foreign Affairs Committee in 1958 at a time when that committee was overshadowed by its Senate counterpart, the Foreign Relations Committee. He had a reputation of supporting the Administration's foreign policy, whether the President was a Democrat or a Republican. But in his latter years he opposed President Richard M. Nixon's policy of involvement in Vietnam and President Gerald R. Ford's intention to provide assistance to anti-Communist forces in Angola.
        Thomas Ellsworth Morgan was born on Oct. 13, 1906, in the small Pennsylvania mining town of Ellsworth, one of eight children of William and Mary Morgan. His father, an immigrant from Wales, was a coal miner. As a boy he worked in the mines, cleaning lamps and picking slate.
        The lessons of this heritage were reflected decades later in his Congressional career, when he promoted legislation to grant Federal assistance for the retraining of thousands of unemployed miners and to sustain President Harry S. Truman's stance on maintaining liberal immigration policies.
        He received a bachelor of science degree from Waynesburg College in Pennsylvania in 1930 and a medical degree from Wayne University in Detroit in 1934.
        He met his future wife, the former Winifred Strait, while interning at Grace Hospital in Detroit, where she was a nurse. They married in 1937.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Mary Ann Youngwood of Potomac, Md., two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      