
        Jay S. Garon, a New York literary agent who transformed his career and the world of publishing with a single call to a Mississippi lawyer in 1987, died on Tuesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 and had homes in New York, Fire Island and Key West, Fla.
        His lawyer and friend Elliot J. Lefkowitz said the cause was a pulmonary embolism.
        A one-time Hollywood character actor from Fall River, Mass., who became a radio, television and theatrical producer in New York before opening his literary agency in the 1950's, Mr. Garon had his share of successes, among them a diet book by the actor James Coco, reminiscences by Hedy Lamarr and a stream of romance novels by writers like Patricia Matthews and Janet Louise Roberts.
        But nothing had prepared Mr. Garon -- or anyone else -- for what happened in 1987 when he received three unsolicited chapters of a first novel by an obscure Mississippi lawyer.
        As it happened, the lawyer had sent the chapters to some 30 agents he had found on a list in his local library before he got to Mr. Garon's name. What set Mr. Garon apart was that he alone found the manuscript worthy enough to call the author, John Grisham.
        Over the next several years author and agent would make publishing and movie history as Mr. Garon negotiated multimillion-dollar publishing and movie contracts for a string of Grisham legal thrillers like "The Firm," "The Client" and "The Pelican Brief."
        Mr. Garon became one of the few agents to deal with both book publishers and movie producers. Not that it took that much to sell a Grisham book to Hollywood. Mr. Garon regularly negotiated multimillion-dollar movie rights for books Mr. Grisham hadn't yet written.
        For a while, it appeared that the agents who had passed on Mr. Grisham's first novel had been more perceptive than Mr. Garon. Some 15 publishers turned it down before Mr. Garon found an obscure house to bring it out in 1989, and only then as a paperback original that had mediocre sales until Mr. Grisham's later success propelled it, too, to the best-seller lists.
        In the end Mr. Garon had the last laugh. He sold the movie rights to the book, "A Time to Kill," for $6 million.
        He is survived by his companion, Gary Sullivan, and a sister, Estelle Superior of Fall River.
      