
        Lord White, a co-founder of the British conglomerate Hanson P.L.C. and one of the most successful takeover artists of the 1970's and 1980's, died on Wednesday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 72.
        A spokesman for Hanson said Lord White died of a respiratory ailment. He had been hospitalized last month after collapsing on a flight from London to Los Angeles.
        By combining an eye for undervalued companies with a take-no-prisoners approach to boardroom battles, Gordon White built Hanson into one of the largest British-owned companies. In 1994, Hanson had revenues equivalent to $17.2 billion, at current exchange rates.
        For many years Lord White headed Hanson's extensive operations in the United States. His public profile never matched that of Lord Hanson, his close friend and partner. But within the company, the two men operated more or less as equals. And when it came to buying companies -- the main way in which Hanson grew -- Lord White by all accounts was in charge.
        "He was the leading takeover expert in the world and I met no businessman, in the U.S.A. or the U.K., with his instinct for opportunity," Lord Hanson said in a statement yesterday.
        Lord Hanson called Lord White a "bold, brave and utterly charming latter-day buccaneer, as he liked to think of himself."
        It was Lord White who masterminded the company's rapid growth in the United States, to which he moved in 1973. He started by buying relatively small, nondescript industrial companies, but by the mid-1980's had moved on to bigger prey, including the SCM Corporation, the typewriter and chemical company, which he acquired in 1985 for $930 million after a bitter takeover battle.
        That deal, in which Hanson subsequently sold off most of SCM's parts, earning a big profit in the process, gave Lord White a reputation as an "asset stripper," a designation that grated on him. He told interviewers that he much preferred to be thought of as a builder of companies, not an industrial deconstructionist.
        Lord White also played a key role in many of the company's biggest deals in Britain, including its $2.5 billion acquisition in 1985 of the Imperial Group, a food and tobacco company. But along with Lord Hanson, his reputation took a beating when Hanson lost a hard-fought effort to take over Britain's Imperial Chemical Industries in 1991.
        "Although the company carries the Hanson name, it is Gordon White who in some respects has been the surrogate brother -- the intelligent sophisticate, who has carried the more prudent and less instinctive James Hanson along with him," Alex Brummer and Roger Cowe wrote in "Hanson: A Biography" (Fourth Estate, 1994).
        The biographers quoted Lord Hanson as saying of Lord White: "Gordon was the buyer. Gordon was the one who sniffed out the possibilities and then went on to conduct the takeovers. He's certainly the brightest person I've ever met in that way."
        Born Vincent Gordon Lindsay White on May 11, 1923, in Hedon, England, he served during World War II in the Royal Air Force and then in a clandestine intelligence unit in India, Burma and Siam. After the war he took over his family's publishing company.
        He began working with James Hanson in 1964, when both were board members of a truck dealership. By the early 1970's they had built their company, then called Hanson Trust, into a medium-sized conglomerate. But feeling that the weak economy and the political atmosphere in Britain at the time were not conducive to the kind of freewheeling free enterprise he supported, Lord White moved from London to New York, believing that the prospects for making money were much better there.
        Like Lord Hanson, he enjoyed his reputation as a playboy, dating models and movie stars -- Mary Tyler Moore, Cheryl Tiegs and Joan Collins among them. After his third marriage, in 1992, to Victoria Ann Tucker, who is 40 years younger than he, he was quoted as saying: "Never marry a young girl. They only want babies."
        A horse-racing enthusiast, he persuaded Hanson to invest in a string of thoroughbreds -- an investment that, much to his later embarrassment, lost the company and its shareholders millions of dollars.
        He was a big admirer of Margaret Thatcher while she was Britain's Prime Minister. She knighted him in 1979, and gave him a life peerage in 1990. He lived in recent years in Los Angeles.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Carolina and Sita, from his first marriage, to Ann Elisabeth Kalen, and a son, Lucas, from his second marriage, to Virginia Ann Northrop.
      