
        Ralph A. Hart, a company leader who helped both Colgate-Palmolive and Heublein penetrate foreign markets, died on Tuesday in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 91 and lived in Delray Beach.
        Mr. Hart joined Colgate in Canada in the early 1930's. A resourceful salesman, he increased the American-owned company's sales of consumer products in foreign markets, starting in Canada and later in India, Australia, Europe and Africa. In 1951, he was named president of Colgate Palmolive International, a division of the parent company.
        His expertise in international sales attracted Heublein, the food, wine and spirits producer, which named him president in 1961. Over the next several years, he increased Heublein's international business, expanding its production plants to 34 countries and its sales to more than 100 different markets. Heublein's Smirnoff Vodka, in particular, was an international success.
        From 1966 to 1968, Mr. Hart served as chairman of Heublein, which was acquired by Grand Metropolitan in 1987.
        After retiring in 1970, he remained on Heublein's board and worked as a consultant to the company until 1982.
        Reared on a small ranch near Great Falls, Mont., he attended a one-room school until he was 10, when his father died and his mother remarried and moved the family to a farm in Alberta. There, he helped with the farm and trapped muskrats, selling the pelts for $1.25. His formal schooling ended after the eighth grade.
        Mr. Hart's daughter, Jacqueline Gay Hart, was in the news in 1959 when she ran away to Chicago, from the Newark Airport, because of tensions over her impending marriage to Stanley Noyes Gaines. She initially said she had been abducted but later retracted that story.
        She married Mr. Gaines soon afterward and later became active in politics. Mrs. Gaines is currently chairman of Gopac, the political action committee for Speaker Newt Gingrich, Republican of Georgia.
        In addition to Mrs. Gaines, of Palm Beach, Fla., and Washington, Mr. Hart is survived by his wife, Laura; four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      