
        John S. Badeau, who served as United States Ambassador to Cairo from 1961 to 1964, died yesterday in Monroe Village, a retirement community in Jamesburg, N.J. He was 92.
        Mr. Badeau, an engineer, educator and ordained minister, was widely known throughout the Arab world when President John F. Kennedy chose him as his envoy to the United Arab Republic, the three-year political union of Egypt and Syria that dissolved in 1961, when Syria withdrew after a military coup.
        Mr. Badeau, who spoke fluent Arabic, had spent more than half his life in the Middle East, beginning in 1928. From 1945 to 1953 he was president of the American University in Cairo, where he taught religion and philosophy and, between 1936 and 1945, was dean of the faculty of arts and sciences.
        When he was tapped by President Kennedy, Mr. Badeau was the president of the Near East Foundation, which organized relief services and conducted technical assistance programs in more than a dozen countries in Africa, Asia and southeastern Europe.
        In an interview shortly after his appointment as Ambassador, Mr. Badeau said: "I can't see any immediate hope for basic resolution of the conflict between Israel and the Arab world. But neither do you have to assume that this conflict is going to be eternal and unalterable."
        Although relations between the United States and Egypt were strained after Egypt nationalized the Suez Canal in 1956, Mr. Badeau established a close relationship with President Gamal Abdel Nasser, which he felt led eventually to a fruitful dialogue between the Egyptian leader and Mr. Kennedy.
        Not long after Mr. Kennedy's assassination, Mr. Badeau informed President Lyndon B. Johnson that he wanted to return to academic life, and in May 1964 accepted an appointment as director of Columbia University's Near and Middle East Institute. He also joined Columbia's Faculty of International Affairs as adjunct professor of international relations in the department of public law and government.
        When he retired in 1971, he became professor emeritus of modern Middle East studies. Until 1974, he was a professorial lecturer at Georgetown University in Washington.
        Mr. Badeau's books included "East and West of Suez" (1941) and "The Emergence of Modern Egypt" (1953), both for the Foreign Policy Association; and "The Lands Between" (Friendship Press, 1958) and "The American Approach to the Arab World" (Harper and Row, 1967), for the Council on Foreign Relations.
        He contributed to numerous other books and was the author of articles that appeared in such publications as Foreign Affairs and The Atlantic Monthly.
        Mr. Badeau, who was born in Pittsburgh in 1903, earned a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., in 1924; a bachelor of divinity degree from the New Brunswick Theological Seminary at Rutgers University in 1928, and in 1936 a master's in sacred theology from Union Theological Seminary at Columbia University, where he also pursued graduate studies in Arabic and Muslim philosophy.
        It was as an ordained minister of the Dutch Reformed Church that Mr. Badeau began his career in the Middle East in 1928 in Iraq, where he spent the next seven years as a missionary in Mosul and Baghdad. He later became a Presbyterian.
        He is survived by his daughter, Jeanne B. Barnett of McLean, Va.; two sons, Roger C. Badeau of Leonia, N.J., and Peter W. Badeau of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Charles Badeau of Dalton, Mass., a sister, Mary Woodruff, of Kissimmee, Fla.; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      