
        Dr. Benjamin W. Watkins, a podiatrist and chiropractor who played a prominent role in politics and community affairs in New York City and who served for years as the honorary mayor of Harlem, died on Friday at his home in St. Albans, Queens. He was 73.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his wife, Elizabeth, said yesterday.
        In addition to practicing medicine, Dr. Watkins oversaw a broad array of health, educational and recreational programs in and around Harlem. His office on Lenox Avenue at 135th Street became a sort of community and social center, where he waged campaigns for better government services and where politicians across the political spectrum went seeking support.
        "My office is not an office anymore," he said in an interview in 1971. "It's a center."
        In 1968, Dr. Watkins became the mayor of Harlem, an unofficial, unsalaried position created in 1947 and filled every two years in elections held among community leaders. While the title was always ceremonial and at times treated as little more than a popularity contest, its holder was often taken seriously as a voice for Harlem at a time when its residents struggled to win greater political recognition.
        Dr. Watkins himself said he hoped to translate the position into what he called "a true office." He became an outspoken advocate involved in campaigns as diverse as persuading television stations to hire more black reporters and producers, to supporting the Presidential bid of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1968.
        Dr. Watkins, however, was the last person to hold the position, and the tradition of electing mayors for Harlem has since slipped into the city's political history, although he kept the title throughout his life.
        Dr. Watkins, born in Barbados, immigrated to New York City in 1948 to attend City College. He went on to Columbia Medical School and the New York College of Podiatric Medicine.
        In 1970, he was instrumental in founding a Harlem chapter of the American Red Cross, and for years helped organize an annual Children's Day parade and carnival in Harlem as part of his long campaign to create a national day to honor children, on a par with Mother's Day or Father's Day.
        He was also a director of the Carver Federal Savings Bank in Harlem, a vice chairman of the New York Chapter of the American Red Cross and the director of nursing homes for the state's Medicaid program. Under President Nixon, he received an appointment as a civilian aide to the Secretary of the Army.
        For 27 years, he was the host of a weekly radio program on WBLS called "You and Your Health." In his efforts to cajole people into better health, he once set up block parties in Harlem to screen for sickle-cell anemia, lead poisoning and other ailments.
        Many of his campaigns remained unfinished. His hope to create a national Children's Day was introduced as legislation in Congress by Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Harlem, but never adopted. In 1974, Mayor Abraham D. Beame appointed him to the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, but withdrew the nomination after Dr. Watkins was accused by the state of inflating Medicaid claims. Later that year, the city's Department of Investigation refuted the charges.
        He retired from medical practice in 1975.
        Dr. Watkins and his companion, Elizabeth Wilburn, who met in 1952 while she was working as a nurse at Harlem Hospital, married on Thursday, a day before his death, she said.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his mother, Millicent, who is 92 and lives in Queens, and three sisters, Phyllis King, Norma Chireau and Gloria Toppin, all of Queens.
      