
        Dr. James David Robertson, a retired professor at Duke University's medical school who conducted innovative research on the structure of membranes, died on Aug. 11 at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 72.
        He had leukemia, said Dr. Michael K. Reedy, a professor at the medical school.
        Dr. Robertson was a professor at Duke from 1966 until his retirement in 1992 and was a longtime chairman of the anatomy department.
        He was known for research that used electron microscopes, which project electron beams through thin biological specimens to form images on a fluorescent screen and on film. Electron microscopes provide much more finely detailed images than do conventional microscopes, which make use of ordinary light.
        He researched membranes that form the exterior of cells in the nervous system, primarily from 1948 to 1952 as a graduate student in biochemistry at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; from 1952 to 1960 as a professor at the University of Kansas in Kansas City and then at University College in London, where he worked under Prof. John Zachary Young; and from 1960 to 1966, when he was on the faculty at Harvard Medical School.
        Writing on Thursday in the British newspaper The Independent, Professor Young said, "The conduction of signals along nerves depends upon the electrical properties of a thin surrounding membrane," and Dr. Robertson "demonstrated how the arrangement of fatty molecules in this membrane shows three layers when seen by the electron microscope." Dr. Robertson thereby gave rise to the term "Robertson unit membrane."
        In an interview, Dr. Reedy said that further research by Dr. Robertson demonstrated that the three-layer membrane structure was a general feature of membranes in all types of cells.
        In addition, Dr. Robertson's research over the years showed that membranes kept almost all nerve cells, in humans and other creatures, separate from one another, Dr. Reedy said. His work also demonstrated other details about the structure and functions of nerve systems and their components.
        Dr. Robertson was born in Tuscaloosa, Ala., and earned a B.S. from the University of Alabama, an M.D. from Harvard and a Ph.D. from M.I.T.
        He is survived by his wife of 48 years, the former Doris Kohler; a son, James D. Jr. of Cambridge, Mass.; two daughters, Karen Brain of New York and Elizabeth Ann Robinson of Boulder, Colo.; and a grandchild.
      