
        Jacob D. Fuchsberg, a prominent trial lawyer and judge who served on the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, from 1975 to 1983, died yesterday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 82 and lived in Harrison, N.Y.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said his son-in-law Richard Kaufman. Mr. Kaufman said Mr. Fuchsberg felt weak and dizzy at his home and was taken by ambulance to the hospital.
        Mr. Fuchsberg (pronounced FYOOKS-berg) retired a year and a half ago from the Jacob D. Fuchsberg Law Firm, in Manhattan, which he founded in 1983 after resigning from the bench. He was still going to court on behalf of clients until just before he turned 80.
        The firm specializes in civil litigation, both trials and appeals, representing plaintiffs in cases in a variety of areas including medical malpractice, negligence, products liability and railroad and commercial law.
        While he was on the Court of Appeals, Judge Fuchsberg gained considerable attention. Early in 1983, legal experts said he had dissented from court opinions more than any other judge, often filling his dissents with rhetorical flourishes.
        He was viewed as a liberal on criminal issues. He and Judge Bernard S. Meyer were described by the Legal Aid Society of New York as "the most defense oriented" judges. During the 1981-82 session, Judge Fuchsberg was the only judge to vote for the defendant in all 10 criminal cases in which the court split 4 to 3.
        He was elected to the Court of Appeals as an associate judge in 1974, and the State Legislature later approved a shift from election to appointment of judges on that court. He stepped down from the bench more than half a year before what would have been the official end of his term. Normally his term would have been 14 years, but under a mandatory retirement rule he would have had to leave the court on Dec. 31 of the year in which he turned 70, which was 1983.
        Early that year, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said: "He is a good judge. He is still vigorous."
        After returning to practicing law, Mr. Fuchsberg said, in 1983: "Unlike in the 1960's, when America fought in the street for its rights, today we are waging the fight in the courthouses. We are making progress, and it has to be done through the law."
        He said at that time that he thought that areas of laws that would be pressed in the United States would include the rights of children, civil rights in general, the one-man, one-vote issue, family law and equal distribution of property, environmental protection and women's rights.
        Before becoming a judge, Mr. Fuchsberg spent many years as a trial lawyer and partner in another Manhattan law firm, Fuchsberg & Fuchsberg, in which two brothers of his are partners.
        He was president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association from 1957 to 1959 and of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America in 1963 and 1964 and was active and prominent in other professional organizations.
        He was a trustee of the New York University School of Law, where a building is named in his honor, as is the Law Center of Touro College in Huntington, L.I.
        Jacob David Fuchsberg was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and earned his law degree in 1935 from New York University.
        He was active in the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, the United Jewish Appeal and other philanthropical organizations.
        Mr. Fuchsberg is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Shirley Cohen; three daughters, Rosalind Kaufman of Harrison -- who is a partner in the Jacob Fuchsberg firm -- Susan Raphaelson of Dix Hills, L.I., and Janet Levine of Rye Brook, N.Y.; a son, Alan of Larchmont, N.Y., who is also a partner in the Jacob Fuchsberg firm; 10 grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; three brothers: Abraham, of the Bronx, and Seymour, of Great Neck, L.I. -- who are partners in Fuchsberg & Fuchsberg -- and Meyer, of the Forest Hills section of Queens; and a sister, Frances, of Manhattan.
        A funeral service is to be held at 10 A.M. tomorrow at the Jewish Community Center of Harrison on Union Avenue in Harrison.
      