
        Bernard Rifkin, a union leader and an educator who helped create the country's first fully accredited labor college, died on Friday at his home in lower Manhattan. He was 84.
        Mr. Rifkin retired in 1976 as a director of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 37, A.F.L.-C.I.O. District 37, a nationwide organization based in New York.
        At District 37, he began a high-school equivalency program in 1968 and went on to organize the School of New Resources, DC 37 campus, for the College of New Rochelle in 1972. The first union-operated college, it offers four-year degrees in subjects like communications, management and labor studies. Union members are offered the chance to complete their college studies with evening and weekend courses.
        Mr. Rifkin, who was born in Brooklyn, was associated with several unions as an organizer and top official, including the United Automobile Workers, which he joined in 1953. He was educational director of that union's eastern region and became a close associate of Walter P. Reuther, who headed the U.A.W.
        In the 1960's, he was a labor adviser to the United States Agency for International Development. During his stint abroad with the A.I.D., he helped train workers in unionism. He was arranging for the construction of two schools at a tin-mining camp in the interior of Bolivia in 1963 when he and a group of other foreigners and Bolivian technicians were caught in a confrontation between Communist miners and the Government of President Victor Paz Estenssoro. They were kidnapped and held for 11 days before being released unharmed.
        With his wife of 58 years, the former Susan Levins, Mr. Rifkin wrote "The American Labor Source Book" (McGraw-Hill, 1979), a hefty compendium of labor history, various unions and a broad range of other subjects concerning labor-management relations.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Rifkin is survived by two sons, Erik of Baltimore and Paul of Falmouth, Mass.; a daughter, Karen Rifkin of Ukiah, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      