
        Cesare Gianturco, a pioneering radiologist and prolific inventor of medical devices, died on Friday at Carle Hospital in Urbana, Ill. He was 90 and lived in Savoy, Ill.
        As a radiologist, Dr. Gianturco was regarded as an originator of the specialty of the use of radiology for the treatment of illness, or interventional radiology, in contrast to its use for diagnosis. In 1994, he was awarded the Gold Medal of the American College of Radiology.
        As an inventor who held 10 current American patents and a number of foreign patents, he was perhaps best known for the Gianturco-Roubin coronary stent, a device implanted in thousands of heart patients to keep the coronary artery open after balloon angioplasty.
        Among his other inventions were the Gianturco coil, a tiny coil of wool positioned by catheter in a blood vessel to block bleeding inside the body or placed near a tumor to starve its blood supply. Another invention was the whimsically named bird's nest filter, positioned by catheter in a vessel to trap dangerous blood clots before they reach the heart.
        During World War II, Dr. Gianturco served in as a lieutenant colonel in the Army Medical Corps. While in France, he developed three-dimensional X-ray visualization techniques to help surgeons pinpoint shell fragments in the eyes of soldiers, minimizing the amount of surgery needed to make repairs.
        Dr. Gianturco, who was born in Naples, received his medical degree from the Royal University of Rome in 1929. He came to the United States the next year to complete a residency at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., where he began his research career by experimenting with X-ray movies. He received a master's degree in radiology from the Mayo Clinic in 1933 and moved to Illinois. He became a United States citizen in 1934.
        A founding partner of the Carle Clinic in Urbana, he headed its radiology department from 1934 to 1967 and did research at the University of Illinois, where he was a clinical professor.
        In 1967, he retired from clinical practice and began a second career as a professor of radiology at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.
        He was the recipient of gold medals from Italian Radiological Society and the Radiological Society of North America.
        Dr. Gianturco is survived by his wife, the former Verna Daily of Savoy; a daughter, Paola, of Mill Valley, Calif.; a son, Michael, of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      