
        John Costello, a Scottish-born historian who shed new light on aspects of World War II and helped to untangle the webs of cold war intrigue, died on Saturday while on a flight from London to Miami. He was 52 and lived in Miami and Manhattan.
        His New York agent, John Hawkins, said the exact cause of death awaited further tests. He said Mr. Costello was in Britain to do research and had suffered from shellfish poisoning a few days earlier.
        The subjects of Mr. Costello's dozen books ranged from the war in the Atlantic and Pacific to Anglo-American mores, code-making and code-breaking, and counterintelligence. They were peopled with heroes and villains and moles, Winston Churchill and Rudolf Hess, the treasonous Cambridge cabal and one of the century's master spies, Aleksandr Orlov.
        He had an earlier career as a documentary film maker and believed that a historian should bring not only thorough research to his writing, but "color, light, action" as well.
        When the Soviet Union collapsed he became the first Westerner to see K.G.B. data for historical use. The upshoot was "Deadly Illusions" (Crown, 1993), written with Oleg Tsarev, a former K.G.B. colonel.
        It was the story of Aleksandr Orlov, Stalin's top spy and the highest-ranking Soviet intelligence officer ever to go into hiding in the West. He was the Soviet contact for the Cambridge espionage ring of H. A. R. (Kim) Philby, Donald Maclean, Guy Burgess, Anthony Blunt and the still-mysterious "fifth man."
        When he made his break in 1938, he not so much defected but sought refuge from Stalinist purges. In fact, when he finally "cooperated" with United States agents, he failed to mention the Cambridge ring or to identify the scores of other Westerners he had recruited or handled -- spies who continued to inflict damage for decades to come.
        "Mask of Treachery" (Morrow, 1988) dealt with Blunt, the royal curator of paintings who was stripped of his knighthood but never disclosed the full extent of his treachery. The book also accused the British of deceiving the Americans about just how much the K.G.B. had riddled British intelligence.
        "Ten Days of Destiny" (Morrow, 1991) covered Britain's wartime appeasers and one of the most puzzling incidents of World War II, the solo flight of Rudolf Hess, Hitler's deputy, to Scotland in May 1941.
        His "Virtue Under Fire" (Little, Brown, 1986) examined how prewar morality had been battered in the United States and Britain with a rise in underage sin. The author ascribed it to hedonism in the shadow of death.
        John Edward Costello was born in Greenock, near Glasgow, and graduated in law and Soviet economic history from Cambridge. He worked as a writer and as a director and scriptwriter for BBC documentaries in London before he became an author of books.
        Mr. Costello is survived by his parents, John and Pattie Suzanne Costello of Newbury, Berkshire, England; a brother, Bryan, and sister, Susan Costello, both of England.
      