
        Lawrence W. Lamm, a pioneer in book packaging, died on Monday at a nursing home in Stamford, Conn. He was 99 and lived in Manhattan.
        As a book packager, he would conceive the idea for a book or series of books. When a publisher accepted the idea, Mr. Lamm would select an appropriate author, take part in developing an outline, supervise the book from draft to conclusion and present the publisher with a finished manuscript.
        As the Lamm of Copeland & Lamm, founded with his partner, Lewis Copeland, he prepared more than 500 books from the late 1930's to the early 1970's for such major publishers as Doubleday, Henry Holt, Grosset & Dunlap and McGraw-Hill.
        Mr. Lamm worked as an editor at Macmillan during the 1920's and was a founder of a book club that fell victim to the Depression.
        He turned to editorial packaging in 1938. He and Mr. Copeland believed that while there was still not a huge demand for books, it was books that would help people to educate themselves if they needed something.
        So they began with practical books. Some have been in print for more than 50 years, among them "High School Self-Taught," "Best-Loved Poems of the American People" and "The World's Great Speeches," all originally published by Doubleday.
        Mr. Copeland, who died in a plane crash in 1950, and Mr. Lamm worked mainly with Doubleday. After World War II they created the New Home Library, a series written by academics that allowed veterans and others to study subjects like physics, chemistry and world history on their own.
        In 1930, after working as an editor at Macmillan, Mr. Lamm was a founder of the Book League of America. Established a few years after the Book-of-the-Month Club, the Book League offered one contemporary novel and one classic novel each month. The Book League was sold to Doubleday in 1936.
        Mr. Lamm was born in Manhattan in 1896 and graduated from the Ethical Culture School. In 1918, he received a bachelor's degree from Yale University.
        He is survived by his wife, Aleen Lassner Lamm of Manhattan; two sons, Roderick W. Lamm of Lake Forest, Ill., chairman of the Deringer Manufacturing Corporation of Mundelein, Ill.; and Donald S. Lamm of New Canaan, Conn., chairman of W. W. Norton; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      