
        Murray H. Finley, the labor leader who led the final, innovative campaign that forced the J. P. Stevens Company to accept union contracts in 1980, died on Monday at the University of Michigan Hospital in Ann Arbor.
        Mr. Finley, who was 73, had moved to Ann Arbor after his retirement as president of the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union in 1986.
        His wife, Elaine, said the cause was leukemia.
        A distinctly new-school labor leader who never stitched a seam, Mr. Finley was a lawyer who worked his way up through the administrative ranks of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Union of America, which represented some 350,000 workers in the men's clothing field.
        A year after becoming president of the union in 1972, Mr. Finley presided over what amounted to a dress rehearsal for the J. P. Stevens campaign, an effort orchestrated by a union strategist, Ray Rogers, who used consumer boycotts and corporate pressure to force Farah slacks to accept union contracts at its plants in El Paso.
        The stage for the final battle against J. P. Stevens was set in 1976, when Mr. Finley helped negotiate a merger with the Textile Workers Union of America.
        The textile workers had been struggling to organize Stevens factories in the South since 1963, but although workers at several factories had voted to make the union their bargaining agent, the company had steadfastly refused to bargain, engaging in blatant intimidation and other illegal tactics.
        With Mr. Finley as president of the merged union, the company began to experience some intimidation of its own.
        The union organized a nationwide consumer boycott, disrupted the company's annual meeting in New York, mounted noisy campaigns to induce corporate executives to resign from the Stevens board and put pressure on banks that dealt with Stevens to abandon the company.
        The company capitulated in 1980, accepting union contracts calling for hefty raises at 10 of its 160 plants. But since then, an economic recession and rampant imports have taken their toll on both textile employment and union membership.
        Amalgamated, which had 500,000 members after the 1976 merger, had only 200,000 a month ago, when it merged with the International Ladies Garment Workers Union to form Unite, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees.
        Before he retired in 1986, Mr. Finney, who had begun his career denouncing corporate greed, was speaking out on trade issues in a vain effort to block low-cost imports.
        Mr. Finley, whose father was an engineer, was born in Syracuse and grew up in Flint, Mich., where, his wife suggested yesterday, the struggles of the United Automobile Workers at the local General Motors plant helped make him a lifelong union man. He joined the U.A.W. when he worked at a machine gun factory before serving with the Army in World War II.
        Mr. Finley graduated from the University of Michigan with a degree in economics in 1946. Then, after receiving his law degree from Northwestern University in 1949, he went to work for the old Amalgamated, serving in various capacities in Detroit and Chicago, where he supervised the creation of a vast array of union social programs, from low-cost housing to day care and health clinics.
        After his retirement Mr. Finley taught at Harvard University and the University of Virginia.
        Besides his wife he is survived by two daughters, Sharon, of Exeter, N.H., and Susan, of Cortez, Colo.; his wife's niece, Jolynne Miller of Manhattan, whom the couple reared after her mother's death, and three grandchildren.
      