
        Frank W. Cyr, an authority on rural education who was called the Father of the Yellow School Bus for his work in establishing national standards for school buses, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Stamford, N.Y. He was 95 and had lived in Stamford, in the Catskills, since retiring in 1965 from Columbia University Teachers College as a professor of rural education.
        Dr. Cyr often led conferences on how to meet the special needs of the country school, and it was at one such national get-together in 1939 that he earned his sobriquet.
        At the time, three million American children were transported to classes. Districts used a variety of vehicles, including trucks and, in one case in Kansas, horse-drawn wheat wagons. Manufacturers showed little interest in making school buses because, since there were no nationwide standards, it was uneconomical to mass-produce them.
        After studying the situation, Dr. Cyr summoned educators and administrators to meet with automotive engineers at Teachers College. The result was 44 national standards for various parts of the vehicle, from the doors to its dimensions.
        Most of the specifications have since changed, but one constant remains: the yellow color with black lettering, a combination chosen to give buses maximum visibility at dawn and dusk.
        Dr. Cyr also set up projects intended to improve education in small, remote districts and provide more subjects of instruction. In the 1950's, he experimented with teaching via telephone and helped establish an educational television system for the Catskills.
        He was also an early advocate of creating national standards for curriculums, while keeping the authority to teach them at the local level. He encouraged community leadership and involvement in schools, and felt that rural students deserved an education as good as any.
        Dr. Cyr's link to the American countryside dated to his boyhood. He was born on a farm near Franklin, Neb., attended a one-room school and remembered watching wagon trains moving across the Great Plains.
        He graduated with a degree in agriculture from the University of Nebraska and worked as a teacher and superintendent in country schools. His insights into their advantages and hardships guided him for the rest of his life. In the months before his death, he was working on a book about the rural school of the 21st century.
        In 1930 he joined the faculty at Columbia and in 1933 received a Ph.D. from Teachers College. While teaching there, he was chairman of Columbia's seminar on rural education, president of the department of rural education of the National Education Association, and president of the Horace Mann League.
        He was the author or co-author of two dozen books.
        Dr. Cyr is survived by a son, William P., of Swarthmore, Pa.; a daughter, Katherine Ruth Cyr of Hastings, Neb.; a brother, Leland N., of Franklin; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      