
        Arno Werner, a German-born bookbinder who was credited with keeping the craft alive in the United States, died on July 28 at his home in Hadlyme, Conn. He was 96.
        His work, often executed in painstakingly hand-tooled morocco leather, was marked by a sturdy yet elegant simplicity. Until 1982 he was chief bookbinder for rare editions at the Houghton Library at Harvard University.
        His association with the library went back almost to its opening in 1942. But his fine bindings also were included in the libraries of Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt, Dwight D. Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Jimmy Carter, as well as Henry A. Kissinger and the State Department, Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands, King Juan Carlos of Spain, King Hussein of Jordan and Leonid I. Brezhnev of the Soviet Union.
        Mr. Werner, who worked with the long-lasting materials and techniques favored by medieval European guilds, liked to contrast a perfectly preserved 16th-century tooled binding from his own collection with a modern, commercially bound book whose spine came unglued.
        "You see, they are not making books anymore," he would say. "They are making money."
        Throughout his career, he shared his artistry with apprentices, who went on to open their own binderies. Examples of his work were seen at antiquarian book fairs and craft shows in Connecticut, in occasional exhibitions at the Grolier Club and the Guild of Bookworkers on the East Side of Manhattan and at schools where he taught.
        The Houghton Library honored him with a 40-year retrospective in 1981. It featured bindings and cases for illuminated manuscripts from the Middle Ages and several incunabula, books printed before 1500, when printing was in its infancy.
        In the catalogue, James E. Walsh, the keeper of printed books, wrote, "Now there is scarcely a shelf in the Houghton Library that does not contain one or more pieces of Arno's work." When the library celebrated his 90th birthday with a reception in 1989, Mr. Werner was still occasionally picking up his tools for his most enduring client.
        Arno Werner was born in Mylau, Saxony, one of 10 children of a weaver. He was apprenticed to a bookbinder at 13 and did the customary stint as a journeyman moving around Europe. He came to New York in 1925 with $25 and his tools in a cigar box.
        For years he shuttled between jobs in this country and in Germany until he was persuaded to train with the famous master binder Ignatz Wiemeler in Leipzig, a center of publishing and antiquarian book dealers. He returned to the United States when war broke out in 1939 and set up his own bindery in Pittsfield, Mass., in 1942. He maintained it until 1977, when he moved the workshop to Hadlyme.
        Mr. Werner is survived by a daughter, Charlotte Werner of Hadlyme, and four grandchildren. His wife of 41 years, Else Lorenz Werner, died in 1970.
      