
        David A. Rose, a Massachusetts judge for more than 40 years and long a leading official of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, died on Saturday in Imperial Point Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
        He was 89 and lived in Wellesley, Mass., and Fort Lauderdale.
        Judge Rose served on the State Court of Appeals and Superior Court and Municipal Court in Boston for more than 40 years. It was his ruling in the early 1960's that preserved Walden Pond much as Thoreau had known it.
        He was chairman of the Jewish civil rights organization's national executive committee for many years and, the league said, was among its longest-serving officials.
        Testifying for B'nai B'rith before Congress in 1954, Judge Rose asserted that many of the loyalty-security prosecutions being brought under directives issued in the Truman and Eisenhower Administrations had proved to be groundless, and he urged a complete revision of policy.
        The ruling that assured the preservation of Walden Pond came in 1961, when he was on the Massachusetts Superior Court. Judge Rose barred the Middlesex County Commissioners from further violating a deed that gave Walden and its environs to Massachusetts and called for their preservation. The commissioners had allowed an acre of woodland to be leveled to increase access to a public beach.
        He was born in Boston and graduated from Boston University and its law school. As a judge, he began in the Municipal Court in the Dorchester section of Boston in 1936. He joined the Superior Court in 1960, and was later named a senior associate justice of the State Court of Appeals. He retired as a full-time justice in 1976, but continued part time for many years.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth; and two sons, Stanley, of Lawrenceville, N.J., and Mitchell, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Rosamond, of Newton, Mass.; a brother, Lewis, of Framingham, Mass.; a sister, Lyllian Isaacs of Newton, and two grandchildren.
      