
        Max Sloan, who left school after the eighth grade to go to work selling fruit and vegetables from a pushcart, and then went on to become president of Sloan's Supermarkets, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 83 and lived in Hollywood, Fla.
        He had cancer, said his granddaughter Patti Mandel.
        Mr. Sloan, who was also a philanthropist, was born and grew up in the Bronx and was reared by foster families after his mother died. He dropped out of school to sell from his pushcart. Then he opened a small fruit store in the Bronx, which grew into numerous Orange Grove fruit stores in the Bronx and Manhattan.
        Mr. Sloan had started in the wholesale fruit business in the 1930's and 1940's; he went into the supermarket business in 1956. The first two Sloan's stores were in Manhattan and were owned jointly by him and a partner, Leo Meyer.
        Their operations expanded to become the Sloan's Supermarket chain, with its stores all in New York City, mostly in Manhattan. In 1982, there were 40 stores, and Sloan's was calling itself the largest supermarket chain in the city, with $150 million in annual sales.
        Mr. Meyer died in 1969, Mr. Sloan retired in 1977 and members of their families went on to run the chain until the early 1990's, when it was sold.
        In 1991 and 1992, 21 Sloan's stores were sold to a holding company owned by the concern operating the Red Apple supermarket chain in Manhattan. Some of those stores are now operated under the name Gristedes, and others are operated under Sloan's name with a licensing agreement.
        A further 11 stores were sold to Namdor -- a holding company that had been in the jewelry retail field -- which then began doing business as Sloan's Supermarkets, with its stock traded on the American Stock Exchange.
        Mr. Sloan could be blunt about Manhattan-based supermarket chains. In an interview in 1980, after he had retired, he said: "Rents are running away, going from $25 to $50 a square foot in some places. If we are going to stay in business, most of us are going to have to go to smaller store space."
        Since the sale of the Sloan's stores, the Sloan and Meyer families have been operating a real estate holding company, CKMR Corporation, which owns property throughout New York.
        As a philanthropist, Mr. Sloan had a longstanding interest in helping young people. The beneficiaries of his largess included youth activities in New York of B'nai B'rith, which gave him two awards. He also made donations, and had donations made in his name, for education. And he was honored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
        Mr. Sloan was also a life master at bridge.
        He is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Sally Herschenhouse; two daughters, Marilyn Rose of King's Point, N.Y., and Phyllis Karsch of Lido Beach, N.Y.; five grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; a brother, Irving, of Manhattan, and a sister, Hilda Levine of the Bronx.
      