
        Don Patinkin, an eminent American-born Israeli economist who served as president of Hebrew University, died yesterday in Jerusalem. He was 73.
        The cause of death was lymphoma, some friends in the United States said.
        Mr. Patinkin is best known for his book, "Money, Interest and Prices," published in 1956. "Patinkin wrote the definitive work on money -- the book Keynes never wrote," said Paul A. Samuelson, the Nobel-prize winning economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        But his most enduring achievement may well be the establishment of serious tradition of economics scholarship and respect for free markets in socialist-minded Israel, his adopted home.
        Mr. Patinkin was born in Chicago, the son of an emigrant from Russia. He graduated from the University of Chicago in 1943, the same year he completed a decade of study of the Talmud at the Chicago Yeshiva.
        But Mr. Patinkin chose economics rather than religion as a profession, finishing a Ph. D. at the University of Chicago in 1947 and staying on as a faculty member. A deep commitment to Zionism led him to immigrate to Israel in 1949.
        When he assumed the post of lecturer at Hebrew University, there was no modern economics department at the university and little attention to the discipline anywhere in the new nation. "He was the Abraham of Israeli economics," Mr. Samuelson said, the teacher of virtually all the economists who have in turn made Israel a center of the profession.
        Mr. Patinkin's most important research was an extension of his doctoral thesis. At the time, there was still a great division between an older school built on the premise that the quantity of money in circulation simply affected the average level of prices, and post-Depression scholars struggling to find the links between money, production and employment.
        Mr. Patinkin parsed the issues in ways that even admirers describe as Talmudic. Thus while he accepted the new analytic framework created by John Maynard Keynes, he rejected the key Keynesian idea that unemployment would not eventually fall along with wages and prices in a depression.
        Later in his career, he became a scholar of the history of economic thought. His most distinguished contribution was a painstaking review of the intellectual revolution after World War I that shattered classical economics. Paradoxically in light of his critique of Keynes's research, he debunked the notion that Keynes's contemporaries rather than Keynes himself deserved much of the credit for the sea change in economic theory.
        Mr. Patinkin's highest academic position, the presidency of Hebrew University from 1983 to 1986, brought him no joy. He resigned abruptly, taking responsibility for the deterioration in the university's finances that had been hidden by Israel's bout of high inflation.
        Mr. Patinkin is survived by his wife Devora, a research biologist at Hebrew University, and his son, Aran, and his daughters, Na'ama, Ilana and T'mira, all of whom live in Israel.
      