
        Harry Tarleton Jenkins Jr., a retired Navy captain who spent more than seven years imprisoned in North Vietnam, much of it in solitary confinement, died last Wednesday in the crash of his light plane in Arizona. He was 68 and lived in Coronado, Calif.
        Captain Jenkins was piloting a Long Eze, a two-seater light plane that he built about five years ago from a kit. The plane suddenly lost power while taking off from Prescott Municipal Airport, said his son-in-law, Comdr. David M. Kennedy, senior test pilot for the Naval Weapons Test Squadron at Point Mugu, Calif.
        Also on board was Captain Jenkins's elder son, Chris, 44, of Los Angeles, who was seriously injured, Commander Kennedy said.
        Captain Jenkins was shot down while piloting an A-4E Skyhawk jet on his 155th mission over North Vietnam on Nov. 13, 1965. For years his fate remained unknown.
        He was put in prison in Hanoi in a cell next to that of his former wing commander, Capt. James B. Stockdale, who had been shot down about two months earlier. Captain Stockdale later became a vice admiral and was Ross Perot's running mate in the 1992 Presidential campaign.
        Captain Jenkins and Captain Stockdale were among 12 American servicemen to be placed in solitary confinement for refusing to cooperate with their Communist jailers.
        Of Captain Jenkins's 87 months as a prisoner of war, 46 were spent in solitary with little food and none of life's amenities. He said later that he kept his sanity by deriving calculus equations in his head and by mentally reviewing college courses and books.
        His family was left in doubt about his fate for more than five years; in December 1971, the North Vietnamese indicated in a six-line message that he was alive. After the United States signed a four-party peace pact in January 1973, Captain Jenkins was released along with some 590 American prisoners as part of the pact. He returned to his family in February 1973 bearing a dirty, cracked porcelain cup -- the only dish he used during his long ordeal.
        He was born in Washington, and joined the Navy in 1945 when he was 18 under a wartime program at the University of South Carolina. He entered flight school and became a carrier-based naval aviator, piloting various types of attack planes.
        After the Vietnam War, Captain Jenkins was active in the campaign to get a full accounting from Hanoi of American servicemen held prisoner and or missing in action.
        He retired from the Navy in 1978 and joined the Cubic Corporation, which designs electronic equipment. At his death, he was the San Diego company's government property manager.
        Besides his son Chris, Captain Jenkins is survived by his wife of 46 years, Marjorie Fowler Jenkins; another son, Kirk, of Phoenix; a daughter, Karen Kennedy of Thousand Oaks, Calif.; a brother, Robert, of Philadelphia, and eight grandchildren.
      