
        The agent who has led the investigation into the Oklahoma City bombing was named the Federal Bureau of Investigation's second-ranking official yesterday and said the bureau would have to devote even more resources to combat terrorism in the United States.
        The agent, Weldon L. Kennedy, who has spent 32 years in the F.B.I., was appointed deputy director. He will assume his post after Labor Day. In announcing the appointment, Director Louis J. Freeh called Mr. Kennedy "superbly qualified."
        After he becomes Mr. Freeh's principal adviser in Washington, Mr. Kennedy will continue to supervise the inquiry into the April 19 bombing of the Federal Building in Oklahoma City in which 168 people were killed.
        Asked whether he expects more incidents of domestic terrorism, Mr. Kennedy replied: "Unfortunately, I would say yes. That is a concern of all law enforcement."
        Mr. Kennedy declined in a telephone interview to comment on the Oklahoma City case, which for him has been a source of both sorrow and pride. He has won praise within the bureau and outside it for leading a team of investigators that arrested two suspects, Timothy J. McVeigh and Terry L. Nichols.
        F.B.I. colleagues in Phoenix, where Mr. Kennedy headed the bureau's office until assigned by Mr. Freeh to lead the Oklahoma City investigation, recalled yesterday that Mr. Kennedy was sadly prescient in a 1993 talk to a law-enforcement seminar in Phoenix. Speaking not long after the February 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center in New York City, Mr. Kennedy said conditions in the United States were ripe for even deadlier attacks.
        Mr. Kennedy will succeed Larry A. Potts, who was demoted last month after coming under heavy criticism as the day-to-day manager of the 1993 siege of the Branch Davidian compound near Waco, Tex., which caused more than 80 deaths.
        Mr. Potts had also been under fire for his handling of an August 1992 siege in Ruby Ridge, Idaho, in which a deputy United States marshal and the wife and son of a white separatist, Randall C. Weaver, were killed.
        Before the Oklahoma City case, Mr. Kennedy was perhaps best known for negotiating an end to a 13-day siege at a Federal prison in Atlanta in 1987, when he headed the bureau's office there.
        About 270 Cuban refugees who were being detained by the United States had taken 127 hostages and, with tensions at a flash point, Mr. Kennedy ordered law-enforcement officers not to try to rescue 27 prison hospital workers who had barricaded themselves in a pharmacy, on the ground that a rescue operation would endanger all the hostages.
        His decision turned out to be right -- the rioters, armed with machetes and homemade bombs, surrendered with no loss of life -- but Mr. Kennedy said yesterday that the decision was "the most gut-wrenching" of his career.
        Before being assigned to Arizona, Mr. Kennedy was an associate director in Washington, just under the deputy director. In a move that was seen as abrupt by some observers, Mr. Freeh eliminated the associate director's post before sending Mr. Kennedy to Phoenix.
        Thus, it was a bit of a surprise to some F.B.I. insiders when Mr. Freeh put Mr. Kennedy in charge of the Oklahoma City inquiry. But longtime associates say one of Mr. Kennedy's strengths is as a coalition builder, a man who "could get people together to put their egos in their suitcases and keep their eye on the ball," as an Arizona colleague put it recently.
        A native Texan, Mr. Kennedy graduated from the University of Texas, then received a master's degree in criminal justice from Georgia State University. He served as a Navy intelligence officer before joining the F.B.I. in 1963.
        He is married and the father of three grown children. He has been building a house in Phoenix, where friends say he has grown to love a life style that includes dining outdoors on steaks or ribs with a desert ambiance.
        Yesterday, Mr. Kennedy said he had no plans to sell the Arizona house. "I built it as my retirement home," he said.
      