
        David Begelman, the amiable Hollywood executive whose bizarre check-forging spree cost him his job as president of Columbia Pictures in 1978 but did not halt his career, was found dead yesterday in a room at the Century Plaza Hotel near his home in Los Angeles. He was 73.
        A spokesman for the coroner's office said he was killed by a gunshot wound that appeared to be self-inflicted, but a formal finding of suicide could not be made until after an autopsy.
        Mr. Begelman was a successful Hollywood agent in 1973 when he was named president of Columbia Pictures, a studio that had fallen on hard times.
        Four years later, after a string of hits, including "Close Encounters of the Third Kind," "Kramer vs. Kramer," and "Shampoo," Columbia was riding high, and so was Mr. Begelman.
        In what a psychiatrist hired by the studio later attributed to a penchant for self-destruction based on an underlying sense of guilt about his very success, Mr. Begelman illegally obtained $40,000 that he did not need by forging three checks, one an expense check for $10,000 intended for the actor Cliff Robertson.
        The episode, which was detailed in David McClintick's 1982 best seller, "Indecent Exposure," came to light after the Internal Revenue Service asked Mr. Robertson why he had not reported the money as income.
        It was a reflection both of Mr. Begelman's standing in Hollywood and of Hollywood's sometimes strange values that in many ways Mr. Robertson was the chief victim of his disclosure of Mr. Begelman's crime. He was virtually ostracized by the Hollywood establishment and did not get a movie role for four years.
        By some measures Mr. Begelman fared far better. Backed by powerful members of the Columbia board, he was initially suspended for two months, but was allowed to resume his executive position until a wave of adverse publicity led to his ouster and the forfeiture of $1.25 million in stock warrants.
        After pleading no contest to the resulting criminal charges, making full restitution and agreeing to make an anti-drug documentary, he was sentenced to probation.
        (The judge later said that "Angel Dust," the short movie Mr. Begelman made as his community service project, was the best anti-drug documentary he had ever seen.)
        Despite his apparent disgrace, Mr. Begelman was named president of MGM in 1980 and took over its subsidiary United Artists after a merger the next year. But whatever magic or luck he had enjoyed at Columbia deserted him. After just one hit, "Poltergeist," in a series of 11 movies he supervised at MGM/UA, he was removed as president in 1982.
        After that he helped form and operate two small production companies, Sherwood and Gladden Entertainment, but although he helped produce some hits like "Mr. Mom," "Mannequin" and "The Fabulous Baker Boys," he was no longer at the top of Hollywood.
        His troubles returned last year when Gladden was forced into bankruptcy after four Hollywood unions found the company had not paid some $4 million due actors and others.
        His friend, Warren Cowan, a public relations man, said Mr. Begelman had been in a deep depression brought on by financial problems, presumably related to his production company's bankruptcy. Lawyers representing other parties in the bankruptcy said yesterday their investigations had turned up questionable payments made by the company.
        Mr. Begelman, who grew up in New York and attended New York niversity, started as agent before he and Freddie Fields formed their own company in the 1960's.
        Mr. Begelman, who was married three times, is survived by his wife, Annabelle; a daughter, Leslie of New York, and by a brother and a sister.
      