
        Alan L. Weiner, who catered to scholarly bibliophiles as purveyor of sometimes rare, generally out of print and often dusty books at his Academy Bookstore on West 18th Street, took his life on Aug. 2 at the Gramercy Park Hotel. He was 53 and lived in Manhattan.
        His sister, Linda Rosenfeld, said her brother, who had a history of depression, took a room on an upper floor and jumped out of a window.
        A native of Boston who grew up in Auburn, Me., Mr. Weiner, whose father operated a paperback-book store, graduated from Boston University and received a master's degree in psychology at Farleigh Dickinson.
        After a frustrating decade as a New York City social worker, it dawned on him that if his clients' major social and psychological needs couldn't be filled by books, his certainly could be.
        In 1977 he opened the Academy at 10 West 18th Street and found himself in the vanguard of an antiquarian trend.
        Within a decade, West 18th Street had replaced Fourth Avenue's Book Row to become the center of a new old-book district. Catering to laid-back, serious-minded readers with stock that ranged from the academic to the arts, Mr. Weiner added classical records, which proved so popular that he opened a record annex next door earlier this year.
        For all his customers' low key, scholarly demeanor, Mr. Weiner could start a stampede simply by leaving out shopping bags filled with samples of, say, 2,000 newly acquired philosophy books from a Columbia professor's library.
        Regulars, who saw the Academy as a club, were attracted in part by the personal service, something of a necessity in a store with display space for only a fraction of its stock and a problematic, hunt-and-pick classification system.
        If the store, with its jumbled bare metal shelves and dusty air, had a ramshackle feeling, that was exactly what Mr. Weiner had in mind. As a marketer, he was a contrarian who felt the retro ambiance of his store -- just down the street, after all, from the flagship Barnes & Noble -- was appropriate for its stock.
        Not that he had to work at it. The dust, a clerk insisted yesterday, was always original.
        In addition to his sister, of Warwick, R.I., Mr. Weiner is survived by a brother, Michael, of South Natick, Mass., and his parents, David and Estelle Weiner of Coconut Creek, Fla.
      