
        Jose Estenssoro, who oversaw the largest privatization of a Latin American oil company, was killed today in a plane crash while traveling on business in Ecuador. He was 61.
        Mr. Estenssoro was the chief executive and president of YPF S.A. of Argentina. He was widely respected throughout Latin America for transforming YPF, which was a heavily subsidized state monopoly when he assumed control in 1990, into a model of efficiency. That model is expected to be imitated as other Latin countries privatize their oil companies, which long have been important symbols of national pride and heritage.
        Six other people were killed in the crash: Juan Pedrals Gili, general manager of the Chilean state oil company ENAP, three businessmen and two crew members. There were no survivors.
        Argentine and Ecuadorean officials said the plane wreckage was found in Machala, Ecuador, about 15 miles from Quito, where the plane was headed after leaving La Paz, Bolivia. The cause of the crash was unknown. Argentine television said that YPF had rented the plane from the American Jet Company.
        News of the crash shook investors. On the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange, YPF fell 60 cents to $20.70. On the New York Stock Exchange, where YPF is traded in the form of American depository receipts, YPF fell $1, to $20.25.
        Mr. Estenssoro restructured YPF from top to bottom, engineering its $3 billion privatization in 1993, installing a team of expert managers and reducing its work force to 5,600 employees from 52,000. His death came at a critical time for YPF, the world's 13th-largest investor-owned oil company.
        In March, YPF acquired the Maxus Energy Corporation of Dallas for $740 million. The purchase of Maxus, which was struggling with a burden of about $1 billion in debt, was part of Mr. Estenssoro's strategy to build YPF into an international oil and natural gas enterprise. He had announced plans to spend about $1 billion on exploration and development to increase YPF's oil production to 450,000 barrels a day by the end of this year, or nearly twice the level of 1992.
        YPF said tonight that its directors would hold an emergency meeting on Friday. Wall Street analysts said they remained optimistic about YPF's prospects.
        "There is some concern as to who his successor will be," said Michael Young, a securities analyst for Smith Barney. "I am confident that the company will push ahead in the direction he had laid out for it, but at the moment it's not immediately clear that a manager with the strength and leadership capability of Estenssoro is immediately available."
        YPF's track record has been somewhat mixed of late. Last year, the oil company failed to meet analysts' expectations when it reported net income of $538 million, down from $743 million in 1993, and $4.2 billion in revenues. For this year's first quarter, YPF reported net income of $177 million on sales of $1.05 billion.
        Mr. Estenssoro was born in La Paz on Jan. 8, 1934. He earned an engineering degree from Rensselear Polytechnic Institute, in Troy, N.Y., and joined the Hughes Tool Company, where he worked for 25 years until his retirement as president in 1987. From 1987 to 1989, Mr. Estenssoro was a stockholder and president of Sol Petroleo S.A., a small petroleum company in Argentina, until he was appointed president of YPF in 1990.
        He is survived by his wife and five children.
      