
        F. Romuald Spasowski, once an ardent Polish Communist and Poland's Ambassador in Washington who then defected dramatically at the height of the Solidarity crisis in 1981, died on Wednesday at his home in suburban Oakton, Va. He was 74.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        A diplomat for 37 years, Mr. Spasowski was serving his second term as Ambassador in Washington when he made his break. He had also been Ambassador to India and a Deputy Foreign Minister.
        On the afternoon of Dec. 19, 1981, six days after the Communist Government imposed martial law to quell a year-old rebellion spread by the Solidarity union movement, Mr. Spasowski telephoned the State Department to announce his move.
        The next day, with the blessing of the Reagan Administration, he said in a statement broadcast around the world that he had defected to show support for Solidarity and its arrested leader, Lech Walesa.
        "The cruel night of darkness and silence was spread over my country," he said of martial law.
        Soon afterward, the Reagan Administration granted him asylum.
        Mr. Spasowski toured the United States denouncing Warsaw and played a leading role in the United States Information Agency's anti-Communist television program, "Let Poland Be Poland." In Poland, he was branded a traitor and condemned to death; his family property was confiscated and never returned.
        After Solidarity won power in Poland in 1989, his sentence was revoked. Two years ago, President Lech Walesa restored his Polish citizenship. But the new Polish authorities never acknowledged Mr. Spasowski's rebellion against the Communists. He died an American citizen.
        In 1986 he published his autobiography, "The Liberation of One," which recounted not only his gravitation toward Communism as a student but also his long journey to Catholicism, the faith of his wife, the former Wanda Alina Sikorski (a cousin of Poland's former Prime Minister, Gen. Wladyslaw Sikorski). Mr. Spasowski was baptized a Catholic in 1985.
        Francis Romuald Spasowski was born Aug. 21, 1920 in Warsaw. His father, Wladyslaw, was a Communist intellectual whose treatise, "The Liberation of Man," was an important political manifesto. He and his father were arrested several times by the Gestapo after the Nazi invasion and occupation in 1939. His father committed suicide in 1941.
        During the later years of the war, he hid in his mother's home in Milanowek, where the Spasowskis harbored several Jewish families. For this, Israel honored his mother after the war.
        As Ambassador to the United States in the late 1950's, Mr. Spasowski held to this legacy, publicly noting Poland's own history of anti-Semitism. In a speech in Manhattan marking the 14th anniversary of the Warsaw ghetto uprising of 1944, he said, "I will not say to you here that in Poland anti-Semitism has been eliminated."
        After Poland was liberated by Soviet armies in 1945, Mr. Spasowski joined the Communist Party. He was a member of the Polish War Crimes Mission at the trials of leading Nazis in Nuremberg, then started his career in diplomacy, serving in Britain and Argentina before coming to Washington as Ambassador. In 1964 he represented Poland in divided Vietnam as a member of the International Commission for Supervision and Control, which was established to mediate peace between Hanoi and Saigon.
        He is survived by his wife, of Oakton, and a daughter, Maria Grochulski, of Warsaw. A son, Wladyslaw, died in India in 1970.
      