
        Harry Lipsig, the New York lawyer who won millions of dollars in damage awards for clients who had been widowed, orphaned, crippled, maimed or merely inconvenienced through someone else's negligence, died Friday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 93.
        In a career that spanned six decades, Mr. Lipsig became famous for his heart-wrenching courtroom depictions of the plight of accident victims and the huge jury awards his eloquence often elicited.
        The total amount of the awards he won is not known, partly because many of them were sealed out-of-court settlements agreed to by rival lawyers eager to avoid the open-ended uncertainty of a Lipsig-coaxed jury verdict.
        As they knew, once Mr. Lipsig got wound up and started vividly describing the years, even decades, of hour-by-hour agony and day-by-day suffering faced by his clients, there was no telling how unhinged a jury might become.
        In one celebrated case, Mr. Lipsig outdid himself. Seeking a staggering $4 million for a man whose legs had been crushed by a runaway car with a defective accelerator, he was so eloquent in describing the grim future his client faced that the jury awarded the victim $8 million. (The startled judge cut the award in half, on the ground that state law prohibited juries from awarding a plaintiff more than he had sought.)
        Mr. Lipsig, who could bring tears to his own eyes describing the work he did on behalf of the little people of the world, tended to see his courtroom battles as David and Goliath struggles, and he took pains to make sure juries saw them that way, too.
        On one side of the courtroom in the typical Lipsig case, the jury would see a phalanx of high-powered lawyers jumbled several deep behind the defendant's table. They were representing one or more large insurance companies.
        On the other side, jurors would see Mr. Lipsig, all 5 feet, 3 inches of him, sitting alone.
        While his forte was his ability to wrest huge jury awards or settlements for his client victims, he was equally adept at establishing that the inevitably wealthy defendant was responsible for the injury.
        He won a case for the estate of a man killed by a shark in Acapulco by convincing the jury that garbage thrown into the ocean by workers at the man's hotel was what had attracted the shark.
        And when a child darted out into the street between parked cars and ran into the rear wheels of a passing car, Mr. Lipsig successfully argued that the motorist really should have been more careful.
        Mr. Lipsig, who was born in Ukraine and brought to New York when he was 6, laid the groundwork for his success as soon as he graduated from Brooklyn Law School in 1926.
        As he once recalled, "I went to every lawyer I knew and asked him for all the cases he couldn't win. I think I won my first 20."
        Mr. Lipsig, who was never accused of immodesty, made sure that the word of his triumphs got around. In time the resulting headlines made him so famous as the "King of Torts" that he had more business than he could handle.
        He was associated with several law firms over the years and had been involved recently in litigation with two sets of previous law partners.
        In 1989 he and his wife, Miriam, adopted his former secretary, Mary Lou Castillo, who later married Mark Manus, a partner in his last firm, Harry Lipsig & Partners.
        Since 1982, Mr. Lipsig had done most of his work outside of court, but he made a special appearance in 1988 on behalf of the estate of a man who had been struck and killed by a car driven by a drunken New York City police officer.
        While recognizing that the city could hardly avoid responsibility in the wrongful-death suit, lawyers representing the city confidently figured that they would be able to limit the damage award, which in such cases is based on loss of earnings, by arguing that the victim, a 71-year-old psychiatrist, was at the end of his earning curve.
        Their confidence vanished when Mr. Lipsig got up to make his opening argument and cited himself as an exhibit, pointing out that he was an 87-year-old practicing lawyer and suggesting that the psychiatrist, too, could have looked forward to many more years of practice.
        Whether the jury would have bought that argument will never be known. Shortly after Mr. Lipsig finished his opening remarks, the city's lawyers, mindful of Mr. Lipsig's mesmerizing reputation, decided it would be best to settle.
        In addition to his daughter and his wife, Mr. Lipsig is survived by two grandchildren.
      