
        Kenneth Lo, an internationally known authority on Chinese cuisine, died on Friday in London, where he lived. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, The Associated Press said.
        Mr. Lo wrote more than 30 books on Chinese cooking and more than a million copies of them were sold in Britain, the United States and elsewhere. His books in print in the United States include "Encyclopedia of Chinese Cooking" (1990, Arrowood and Galahad) and "New Chinese Vegetarian Cooking" (1987, Pantheon), which was applauded by one American food expert for "such tempting recipes as Sichuan hot-braised stir-fried eggplant and stir-fried asparagus with garlic."
        Mr. Lo -- a grandson of Sir Lo Feng-Lu, a Chinese Ambassador to Britain -- said that Chinese cuisine was "the art of exploding savoriness." But he was not a snob; his books included "Cheap Chow" (1977).
        He wrote his first book on Chinese cooking in 1955, and he recalled in a 1994 interview, "I never dreamt the excursion would turn out to be my personal Long March."
        Particular success was enjoyed by his book "Chinese Food," which came out n the early 1970's, at a time of growing interest in Chinese cooking in Britain and the United States.
        In it, he said cheerfully, "I have yet to see a Chinese lady who does not present her culinary creations beaming with pride and her face wreathed in smiles -- completely confident of her guests' appreciation."
        His many activities in the culinary field included the Chinese Gourmet Club, in London, which he founded in 1976.
        In 1980, he, his wife and some partners founded a London restaurant, Memories of China, offering dishes from various regions of China, including his native Fujian province. The British newspaper The Daily Telegraph said on Saturday, "It was instantly rated among the best Chinese restaurants in the country."
        Also in 1980, Mr. Lo opened Ken Lo's Kitchen, in London, which has been called Europe's first Chinese cooking school.
        He was born in Fuzhou, Fujian's capital, and was named Lo Hsiao Chien. He first went to London as a child -- while his father was China's Consul General there -- and was renamed Kenneth after a British physician began calling him by that name.
        He went on receive a B.A. in physics from Yenching University in Beijing and an M.A. in English literature from Cambridge. He settled in Britain when he was 23 and had a Chinese consular post from 1942 to 1946 in Liverpool. There he is said to have eased disagreements between Chinese and West Indian seamen by having them dine together.
        He was a vice consul in Manchester, England, from 1946 to 1949 and then went into business for some years selling Chinese greeting cards and Chinese crafts and art.
        His survivors include his wife, the former Anne Phillipe Browne; twin sons and two daughters.
      