
        Phil Harris, the brash, bourbon-swigging, fast-drawling band leader who became a comic radio star as a Jack Benny sidekick in the 1930's and then enchanted new generations of fans as the unlikely voice of Baloo the Bear in Walt Disney's "Jungle Book," died on Friday night at his home at the Thunderbird Country Club in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 91.
        Whether as part of the famous Jack Benny radio ensemble from 1936 to 1952 or as the star of his own show from 1946 to 1954 with his wife, Alice Faye -- a major star of movie musicals in the 1930's and 40's -- Mr. Harris, with his dark curly hair, wide, toothy grin and trademark "Hi ya, Jackson," was the epitome of the slang-slinging, wise-cracking slacker, a drummer given to one-line quips and two fingers of bourbon.
        As a Jack Benny regular, Mr. Harris became such a favorite of the show's huge audience that NBC gave him his own half-hour show immediately after the Benny broadcast on Sunday nights.
        Benny, who did not fully understand Mr. Harris's broad appeal, once tried to explain it: "Phil Harris is a typical fresh guy found in every town. For some reason or another people seem to love that type of fellow."
        As a stock character, Mr. Harris was a bundle of contradictions, at once country bumpkin and city slicker. Although he grew up in Nashville, the guitar-strumming capital of country music, he played the drums, and the touring 25-piece orchestra he led was known not for its country rhythms but for its sophisticated big-band sound.
        And while he had a distinct Southern accent and affected down-home humor with songs like "That's What I Like About the South," "Is It True What They Say About Dixie?", "Woodman, Spare that Tree," "The Preacher and the Bear" and "Smoke, Smoke That Cigarette," he delivered the lines -- more spoken than sung -- with a rapid-fire staccato. His biggest hit was "The Thing."
        Although his fondness for bourbon was largely a creation of the Jack Benny writers, Mr. Harris played the part to the hilt. As a regular on the Pro-Am golf circuit, for example, he listed himself as playing for the Jack Daniels Country Club.
        Even so, his penchant for drinking was something of an exaggeration, as a longtime friend, Dr. Don Stewart, noted on Saturday. Mr. Harris had recently been put on a special diet, which he discussed with Dr. Stewart, asking at one point about the provision for three vodkas. "I've already had two today."
        For all his Tennessee affectations, Mr. Harris was born in a coal-mining camp outside the small town of Linton, Ind., about 80 miles southeast of Indianapolis. His father, a circus bandmaster and vaudeville musician, moved the family to Nashville when his son was 5 or 6 and later hired him as a drummer.
        Mr. Harris, who picked up his accent in his Nashville years, later formed a band called the Dixie Syncopaters and toured for two years, before trying solo performances.
        In 1932 he formed another orchestra, which became such a hit on the big-band circuit that it was soon playing radio performances, leading to the long association with Benny.
        "If it hadn't been for radio," Mr. Harris once said, "I would still be a traveling orchestra leader. For 17 years I played one-night stands, sleeping on buses. I never even voted because I never had a residence."
        Mr. Harris's radio work led to a string of movie parts, mostly playing himself but including roles in "The High and the Mighty," in 1954.
        He was retired and largely forgotten in 1967 when Walt Disney picked him for the voice of Baloo the Bear in his animated cartoon version of Kipling's "Jungle Book."
        Neither Mr. Harris nor the Disney associates quite understood why Mr. Harris had been picked, a mystery that deepened when Mr. Harris did his first reading and found the lines too plain for his style.
        As he later recalled, after a wooden reading of a line like, "Now, Mowgli, you be careful because you're in this bad jungle," he asked if he could do a bit of improvising and was told to go ahead. "I came out with something like, "You keep foolin' around in the jungle like this, man, you gonna run across some cats that'll knock the roof in."
        The Disney staff was so impressed that the entire movie was rewritten, incorporating the personalities of the actors into the cartoon characters they portrayed.
        Mr. Harris, whose song in the film, "The Bare Necessities," was nominated for an Academy Award, became famous all over again, much to his surprise and delight.
        Through successive re-releases of the movie and through its videotape version, Mr. Harris became a continuing hero to children.
        "Little kids would chase him for his autograph," his daughter, Alice Regan, said on Saturday from her home in New Orleans.
        In addition to Miss Faye and Mrs. Regan, he is survived by another daughter, Phyllis, of St. Louis and Rancho Mirage; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      