
        Abraham W. Geller, an architect known as much for his steadfast commitment to the modernist gospel as for the buildings he designed, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Marion Geller.
        Mr. Geller's small office, established in New York in 1946, produced the designs for several prominent New York City projects, including Cinema 1 and Cinema 2 on Third Avenue, one of the first multiplex movie theaters in the country; Davis Hall (1979), a performing arts auditorium at City College, and the residential pavilions of the Henry Ittleson Center for Child Research (1967) in Riverdale.
        His design for the E. Dent Lackey Plaza, the public open space at the Niagara Falls Convention Center, won an international competition in 1972, and was built shortly thereafter; he also produced a finalist scheme for the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial for Washington, another architectural competition.Mr. Geller also designed the Queens Borough Public Library and numerous office buildings, synagogues, apartment buildings and single-family houses in the New York region.
        But it was as a passionate believer in the social mission of architecture that Mr. Geller was best known.  When many architects in the 1980's abandoned modernism as an outdated style, Mr. Geller stuck firmly to the belief that the problem was not in the style of the architecture itself, but in the antisocial uses to which it had been applied. He sought, both in his own work and in the training he provided to younger architects in his office, to recapture the social mission and the sense of idealism that had inspired the early modernist architects in the 1920's.
        Mr. Geller gained headlines in 1985 when, on the occasion of his being awarded the Medal of Honor of the New York City Chapter of the American Institute of Architects, he turned to an audience expecting a polite thank-you speech and instead issued a violent denunciation of Michael Graves's planned post-modern addition to the Whitney Museum.  The assembled architects applauded Mr. Geller's description of the proposed Whitney addition as "the antithesis of the philosophy of the museum's originator, Marcel Breuer," and said that if the new design were built, the Whitney would be "literally crushed."
        "The Whitney states that it has the foremost collection of modern American art in the world," Mr. Geller said. "One is prompted to ask, then, how it justifies a building addition which features applied classical forms."
        Mr. Geller, who was born in Husi, Romania, in 1912, immigrated to the United States in 1920. He studied architecture at Cornell University and worked early in his career for several noted modernist architects including William Lescaze, the firm of Shreve, Lamb & Harmon, and Walter Gropius and Marcel Breuer.  He formed an office with George Nemeny in 1946, and established his own firm, Abraham W. Geller & Associates, in 1950.
        In his early years of practice, Mr. Geller designed several important works that gained widespread attention, including Al & Dick's, a steakhouse built in 1948 on West 54th Street in midtown Manhattan that was among the first architect-designed modern restaurants in the country. His sprawling house for Herbert Shapiro, a sweeping, sculptural structure built in the early 1950's on a waterfront site on Long Beach Island in New Jersey, was one of the first postwar modernist houses in the region to achieve the grand scale of a monumental villa, a prototype for the ambitious houses by a later generation in the Hamptons.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a brother, Dr. Lee Geller; two daughters, Amy and Janice, and two grandsons.
      