
        John Cameron Swayze, one of television's first evening news anchors and the man who introduced the sentence "It takes a licking and keeps on ticking" into popular culture as the voice of Timex watches, died yesterday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 89.
        Mr. Swayze, whose crisp but folksy voice made him a household name during television's infancy, started his career as a newspaper reporter, then became a radio broadcaster and switched to television in 1949 to host the "Camel News Caravan," a 15-minute news program broadcast five times a week on NBC.
        The program, which was sponsored by Camel cigarettes, replaced the network's straight newsreel format and became the prototype of modern newscasts, with live pick-ups of news events, interviews with entertainers and officials and roundups by commentators from different cities along the route of television's small existing network.
        Mr. Swayze, who grew up in Atchison, Kan., had wanted to be an actor. His trademark carnation lapel, which viewers did not discover was red until the show was first shown in color in 1954, and his familiar opening line -- inviting viewers to join him "hopscotching the world for headlines -- brought a light, jaunty touch to the news.
        He alternated his news job with appearances on several other programs during the 1950's, serving as a permanent panel member on NBC's quiz show "Who Said That?" in which he dazzled the audience with a seemingly encyclopedic memory of current events. On Sundays, he also served as the emcee of a children's educational show, "Watch the World."
        But it was as the stentorian-voiced pitchman for Timex watches -- which he became after being replaced by Chet Huntley and David Brinkley in 1956 -- that Mr. Swayze became best known. His catch phrase was widely appropriated in fields as diverse as sports, politics and business to denote toughness.
        The commercials, which continued for 20 years, featured Mr. Swayze presiding as the watches were subjected to various kinds of abuse only to emerge intact. In one, elephants stomped on the watches. In another a watch was strapped to a tackle line and cast off a deep-sea fishing boat. A commerical filmed in Hawaii showed a watch attached to the pontoon of a plane that landed on the water.
        During one commercial broadcast live during the Steve Allen show in 1958, a watch was fastened to the propeller of an outboard motor and the motor was run in a tank. But when Mr. Swayze reached for the watch after the test it was gone. Without missing a beat, he ad libbed that it was probably still ticking at the bottom of the tank.
        For each advertisement, Swayze contributed an air of both authority and humor as he seemed to combine the roles of newsman and pitchman.
        Like many broadcasters of his time, he had melded news and commercial enterprise almost from the beginning of his career, once marketing his own line of silk neckties, which bore his signature. He also invented a board game called simply Swayze, in which contestants tested their knowledge of current events.
        Mr. Swayze was born in Wichita in 1906, and started his career as a reporter and editor at the Kansas City Journal-Post and worked in Kansas radio before getting his start with NBC.
        He made his first mark on the radio in 1948, covering the Presidential conventions in Philadelphia. He made the early switch to television, which many radio broadcasters of the time viewed with disdain, only after being persuaded by network executives. It was a move that later came back to trouble him, when he and other early televion commentators became viewed as lightweights -- no more than talented readers of 15-minute scripts -- by the more experienced radio broadcasters who followed.
        But Mr. Swayze, who was sometimes criticized during his years on the "Camel News Caravan" for dwelling on pictures and personalities more than on current events, never pretended that his main concern was hard-hitting news.
        "Leaving people feeling good," he said during one interview. "That's my role."
        His son, John Cameron Swayze Jr., said in an interview yesterday with The Herald Tribune in Sarasota, Fla., that his father "managed to project a certain innocence, a feeling of promise, a genuine friendliness. His favorite signoff was, 'That's the story, glad we could get together.' When he signed off 'Glad we could get together,' he really meant it, and I think people understood that he meant it."
        Mr. Swayze moved to Sarasota, where he had a summmer home, from Old Greenwich, Conn., last year as his health began to fail.
        He is survived by his wife Beulah Mae; a son, John Cameron Swayze Jr. of Bedford, N.Y.; a daughter, Suzanne Patrick of Alexandria, Va; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      