
        Lawrence Dunbar Reddick, a historian, biographer of Martin Luther King Jr. and former curator of the New York Public Library's Schomburg Collection, died on Aug. 2 at Pendleton Memorial Methodist Hospital in New Orleans. He was 85 and had lived in New Orleans in recent years.
        In 1939, Dr. Reddick was named curator of what was then the Schomburg Collection of Negro Literature at the West 135th Street branch of the library.
        He was the second curator of the collection, taking over after the death of Arthur A. Schomburg, the founder of what has since become one of the world's most comprehensive libraries of black history, literature and art.
        Nine years later, Dr. Reddick resigned over what he called inadequate facilities and staff. "The major responsibility for the discouraging conditions confronting the Schomburg Collection rests with the city fathers," he said at the time.
        How historians write history was a question that interested Dr. Reddick for decades. In an address titled "A New Interpretation for Negro History," which he gave in Petersburg, Va., in 1936, he asked historians to draw up a new "catalogue of the determinative influences affecting Negro life."
        In a journal article not long afterward, he discussed the interpretation of history by black historians, contending: "The whole group has written under the influence of the prevailing spirit permeating the American mind. This ideology may be labeled 'liberalism.' " He did not find fault with liberalism as such, but he said, "It doesn't answer the questions why and under what circumstances things happened."
        In an interview in 1975, Dr. Reddick said: "Since slavery is becoming of interest to the reading public, you have corporate scholarship coming in to take over the field. You have the big universities that formerly weren't interested in it very much, and you have scholars getting big grants to do these studies and these scholars tend to be white. And they tend to push out the black scholars."
        Dr. Reddick's book "Crusader Without Violence: A Biography of Martin Luther King Jr." was published in 1959. He concluded it with these words:
        "Montgomery has given Martin Luther King to all men everywhere. Someday all of Montgomery will be proud of him. At 30, with international recognition, he should have decades of usefulness ahead. We should all want this promise to be realized, for perhaps he and others like him may be able to help us survive the days of anguish that are upon us. Even in a mad world, the spirit of man may yet prevail."
        Dr. Reddick, who obtained a Ph.D. in history from the University of Chicago, became a professor of history and chief librarian at the University of Atlanta from 1948 to 1955. In 1956, he became chairman of the history department at what was then Alabama State College in Montgomery.
        Five years later, he was dismissed at the insistence of Gov. John Patterson of Alabama, who charged that he was a Communist sympathizer. Dr. Reddick denied the charge and contended that the Governor had made the accusation to "divert attention from the political and financial problems that he faces."
        Dr. Reddick joined Temple University's history department in 1967 and went on to be a full professor of history there for some years. He also taught at City College, the New School for Social Research and several other colleges and universities.
        He was a professor of history at Coppin State College in Baltimore in the 1960's; a visiting professor of Afro-American studies in 1977 and 1978 at Harvard, where he taught a course on the black family in America and another called Black Revolution, 1955-1975, and he taught Afro-American history at Dillard University in New Orleans from 1978 to 1987, when he retired.
        Dr. Reddick was also the author of "Our Cause Speeds On" (1957) and other writings, and a co-author of "The Southerner as American (1960) and "Worth Fighting For: The History of the Negro in the United States During the Civil War and Reconstruction" (1965).
        He was a member of the editorial board of Journal of Negro History and a special editor of Journal of Educational Sociology.
        Dr. Reddick was born and raised in Jacksonville, Fla., and received a B.A. in 1932 and an M.A. in 1933 both from Fisk University. He received his doctorate in 1939.
        In addition to his wife of 57 years, Ella Ruth Thomas Reddick, he is survived by a brother, Harold N., of Tampa, Fla.
      