
        Howard Koch, a Hollywood screenwriter who won an Academy Award as one of the authors of the film "Casablanca," died yesterday at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. He was 93 and lived in Woodstock, N.Y.
        In a long, diverse career, Mr. Koch wrote plays as well as screenplays, was the author of Orson Welles's radio adaptation of "The War of the Worlds" and wrote several books. But the single defining moment of his life was his collaboration with Julian and Philip Epstein on "Casablanca." Wherever movies are taught, seen and enjoyed, Mr. Koch and his writing partners are quoted.
        Together, they adapted an unproduced play (by Murray Burnett and Joan Alison) into Michael Curtiz's classic 1942 film, creating roles for Humphrey Bogart, Ingrid Bergman, Claude Rains and Paul Henreid. They made Casablanca -- and a nightclub called Rick's -- come alive with such memorable dialogue as "Of all the gin joints in all the towns all over the world, she walks into mine," "Here's looking at you, kid," and "Round up the usual suspects." The trio did not, of course, write the words, "Play it again, Sam." Their line, spoken by Bergman to the pianist Dooley Wilson, was "Play it, Sam. Play 'As Time Goes By.' "
        In Mr. Koch's memoirs, suitably titled "As Time Goes By," he said that at one early point the leading roles in "Casablanca" were to be played by Dennis Morgan, Ann Sheridan and Ronald Reagan (as the heroic anti-fascist character played by Paul Henreid).
        Mr. Koch was born in New York City on Dec. 12, 1901 and graduated from Bard College (then called St. Stephens) and Columbia University Law School. While practicing as a lawyer in Hartsdale, N.Y., he began writing plays. His comedy "Great Scott!" was produced on Broadway in 1929, followed four years later by "Give Us This Day," about a family feuding over a fortune. Neither was successful.
        Although he continued to write stage plays, his first fame was on radio as a writer for Orson Welles and John Houseman and their Mercury Theater of the Air. For the Mercury Theater he dramatized the H. G. Wells novel "The War of the Worlds," in which Martians invade the Earth. Broadcast by Mr. Welles on CBS radio in 1938, it terrified listeners who believed the story was fact, not fiction. Years later, Mr. Koch wrote a book about the broadcast called "Portrait of an Event."
        During the 1940's he worked at Warner Brothers, writing or collaborating on screenplays for a wide variety of movies including "The Sea Hawk" (with Erroll Flynn), "The Letter," an adaptation of Somerset Maugham (starring Bette Davis) and "Sergeant York" (Howard Hawks's film starring Gary Cooper).
        In 1941, he and John Huston collaborated on a play, "In Time to Come," about Woodrow Wilson and the League of Nations. Directed by Otto Preminger, it opened on Broadway on Dec. 28, 1941, shortly after the United States entered World War II. Reviewing it in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson said that even without the sudden timeliness, the work "would have been profoundly sobering and impressive." He added that the authors wrote "the record of the greatest of the world's lost causes without rhetoric or recrimination."
        Subsequently Mr. Koch returned to screenwriting, working on "Casablanca" and the screenplay for "Mission to Moscow," a wartime movie about Joseph E. Davies's experience as American Ambassador to Russia. The film depicted the Russians sympathetically. In his review in The Times, Bosley Crowther said that this was "clearly the most outspoken picture on a political subject that an American studio has ever made."
        Mr. Koch shared writing credit for "Rhapsody in Blue" (the George Gershwin story) and "In Our Time" (with Ida Lupino). Mr. Koch's wife, Anne Green Koch, said yesterday that his favorite screenplay was the one he wrote for "Letter From an Unknown Woman," starring Louis Jourdan (as a concert pianist) and Joan Fontaine.
        He also wrote "No Sad Songs for Me" (starring Margaret Sullavan). Later he recalled the first screening of the romantic melodrama in a projection room for Harry Cohn, the president of Columbia Pictures.
        "After it was over, there was a hush. Finally I broke the silence with a suggestion for a couple of minor changes before its release. Harry Cohn turned on me with fury. How dare I want to change anything (when everyone in the room was crying -- 'except maybe you,' forgetting for the moment that I had written it)."
        Cohn put all the resources of the company behind it, and the film made money. Based on that experience, Mr. Koch concluded, "Love and commerce were not incompatible."
        During the 1950's he was blacklisted, at least partly because he had written "Mission to Moscow." Asked how he knew his Hollywood career had ended, he answered, "The phone stopped ringing." He and his wife moved to England, where he worked on screenplays under pseudonyms. As Howard Rodney, he wrote "Intimate Stranger" for Joseph Losey.
        He returned to the United States after five years. Later he did the screenplay for "Loss of Innocence" (an adaptation of Rumer Godden's novel "Greengage Summer") and collaborated on the script for "The Fox," by D. H. Lawrence. Before his death he was working on a novel called "Invasion from Mars."
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Karyl Trainor of New York City; a son, Peter, of Athens, Ga., five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      