
        Terry Miller, who turned his love of the theater, his devotion to Greenwich Village and his fondness for obscure facts into an eclectic, if hand-to-mouth, career as a writer, photographer, collector, archivist, researcher and historian, died on Tuesday at the Rivington House Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 47.
        His family said the cause was complications from AIDS.
        For all his wide-ranging activities, Mr. Miller, who shunned 9-to-5 employment and was always struggling to make a living, was essentially a hobbyist of such intensity that his passions became his profession.
        Many people live in Greenwich Village, for example, and fall in love and wonder about its enchanting warren of crooked streets. Mr. Miller, who moved to the Village in 1969, turned his curiosity into an industry.
        Known to his friends as a walking encyclopedia of Village lore, he wrote and contributed 150 of his own photographs to "Greenwich Village and How It Got That Way," a 1990 Crown history that is still in print and is also a historical relic. A copy was sealed into a time capsule at the rededication of the Washington Square arch in 1990.
        Mr. Miller also conducted walking tours of the Village and was a leader of the campaign to preserve the Greenwich Village waterfront blocks, an effort to which he contributed more than 100 photographs now on display at the Westbeth Gallery.
        Many people also become musical comedy buffs, but Mr. Miller, who dated his own interest to the time his stage-struck mother, Sally, took him to see a Long Island production of "Pajama Game," when he was 9, took his fondness to extremes.
        Among other things, he majored in theater at Boston University; collated the 400,000 pictures taken by Joseph Abeles, the theater photographer; contributed articles on the theater to newspapers, magazines and encyclopedias, and collected so many records, tapes, programs, books and other theater ephemera, his mother said yesterday, that they filled 98 cartons when they were shipped to the Musical Theater Library of the University of Miami.
        According to his mother, her son's special intensity surfaced early. Of the dozens of Huntington, L.I., residents who watched a barn burn up the street from the Miller residence in 1954, her 7-year-old son is the only one known to have rushed home and translated the experience into a novel, "The Burning Barn." "It's still a family favorite," she said.
        In addition to his mother, he is survived by his father, Morie, and three sisters, Laurie Farr of London, Deborah Burke of Newton, Mass., and Wendy Miller of North Kansas City, Mo.
      