
        Robert S. Hirschfield, a political scientist, professor and author who was the dean of communications at the City University of New York, died yesterday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. Dr. Hirschfield, who lived in Manhattan, was 66.
        His wife, Muriel, said the cause of death was heart failure.
        For many years, until his retirement in 1993, Dr. Hirschfield directed CUNY-TV, the City University cable television channel, and was the producer and host of "Cityscope," a public affairs television program on WNYC-TV and CUNY-TV.
        Taking over the largely fallow CUNY-TV station in 1985 at the request of Joseph S. Murphy, then the Chancellor of the City University, Dr. Hirschfield revitalized it with productions from a variety of sources, including branches of the university. Before long, CUNY-TV had introduced 25 nonfiction series, dealing with the sciences, cultural affairs, politics, foreign languages and other subjects.
        "We are quintessential public-service television," Dr. Hirschfield said. "We have no other aim than to serve the general public."
        He was also the author of "The Power of the Presidency" (Aldine Publishing) and "The Constitution and the Court: The Development of the Basic Law Through Judicial Interpretation" (Random House). His articles and reviews appeared in publications like The New York Times, The Nation, Public Policy, The American Political Science Review and Parliamentary Affairs.
        After his retirement, Dr. Hirschfield became the editorial director of The Earth Times, a newspaper that focuses on economic development, the environment, human rights, population and trade.
        Dr. Hirschfield, who was born in St. Louis, received a bachelor of arts degree from Harvard, where he also earned a law degree and a master of arts. In 1958, the same year he became an instructor at Hunter College, he received his doctorate from New York University.
        He became a full professor in 1967 and in 1968 was named chairman of the political science department at Hunter in 1968.
        He served as co-chairman of the New York Stevenson-for-President Committee and was a member of the New York State Facilities Development Corporation and the New York City Commission on the Status of Women.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Hirschfield is survived by their two children, Rebecca and David, also of Manhattan, and his brother, Stanley Hearn of Chicago.
      