
        Julius Monk, the debonair impresario of satiric revues and the diviner of generations of talented performers, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82.
        In a series of New York supper clubs and cabarets -- the Ruban Bleu in the early 1940's, the Downstairs, the Upstairs at the Downstairs and, in the late 1960's, Plaza 9 at the Plaza Hotel -- Mr. Monk was the host, or regisseur (meaning stage manager), a title he preferred. In the heyday of cabaret comedy, he was the most celebrated maestro.
        A man of prodigious panache, he was impeccable in his clothes, taste, manners and wit. His clubs were salons rather than saloons. For decades, young comics and singers nurtured their careers in Mr. Monk's shows and then moved on to Broadway or television. Sylvia Syms, Tammy Grimes, Alice Ghostley, Jane Connell, Jonathan Winters, Mary Louise Wilson and Liberace were among the many who performed for him. His writers included Tom Jones, Harvey Schmidt, Sheldon Harnick, Carolyn Leigh and Ronny Graham.
        Mr. Monk's shows were marked by their topicality. Long before there was a "Forbidden Broadway," he was first with a spoof of a trend, fad, best seller, hit show, popular film or poll-winning politician. The sketches and songs were insouciant rather than savage. In a profile of Mr. Monk in The New Yorker in 1992, Whitney Balliett remembered the elegance of his revues: "The women performers wore black cocktail dresses or black evening gowns, and the men wore tuxedos. The shows had a fast, hide-and-seek quality. Heads and arms and gloved hands popped out of a paneled front cloth and disappeared.  . . . The only props were stools of various sizes."
        Mr. Monk's shows were frequented by sophisticated New Yorkers, who belonged to no particular class or group, but simply wanted an entertaining, literate night out, at reasonable prices. Mr. Monk defined his role as "peripatetic conscience, devil's advocate, audience of one, multiple critic" and "essentially, a trusted friend of the actor."
        Julius Withers Monk was born Nov. 10, 1912, in Spencer, N.C., but acquired the courtliness of a Continental gentleman. Arriving in New York in the early 1930's, he played the piano at the bar at One Fifth Avenue in Greenwich Village, and began spotting talent. One of his first discoveries was Dorothy Lamour. At the age of 23, he went to Paris with his wife, Eliza Allen (they were divorced in 1942), and worked as a pianist in various Parisian clubs, including Bricktop's. In 1937 he opened a club called Chez Julius in St. Tropez, and was soon traveling with an international set.
        Back in New York in 1939, he worked as a pianist at Herbert Jacoby's Ruban Bleu on East 56th Street and took over as manager after Mr. Jacoby moved on. "I was never catastrophically wrong about the talent I hired," he said. "I discovered intuitively that some talents take time to emerge." When the owner of the Ruban Bleu wanted to fire Imogene Coca, Mr. Monk threatened to quit. They both stayed, and, he said, "In two weeks, she was fine."
        During the late 1940's, he presented shows in Provincetown, Mass., and Bermuda, with a company that included Ms. Coca, Bibi Osterwald, Jack Fletcher and Alice Pearce. In 1956, he opened the Downstairs Room at 51st Street and Avenue of the Americas, with a revue called "Four Below." The first quartet was Dody Goodman, Gerry Matthews, June Ericson and Mr. Fletcher. As Mr. Monk said, with characteristic formality, "Good fortune permitted me to indulge my variety vagary."
        Soon he was delighting New Yorkers with a series of intimate musicals, most of which had numbers in their titles ("Take Five," "Pieces of Eight," "Baker's Dozen"). At the same time, he had a secondary career as a highly paid model. Except for one brief visit to Chicago, he kept his shows in New York, where he continued to greet his loyal patrons with the suaveness that remained his trademark.
        His retirement in 1968 coincided with the decline of cabaret revues, and he lived the rest of his life as a kind of cultural icon of a displaced but fondly remembered era. As Mr. Balliett pointed out in his profile, "The extraordinary dark-haired handsomeness of the Monk of 30 or 40 years ago -- poetic, almost smoldering good looks . . . rests just inside his high-domed, gently aging face."
        He is survived by his sister, Katherine Monk Peacock of Alexandria, Va.
        Correction:  August 23, 1995, Wednesday
        The credit with an obituary picture yesterday of Julius Monk misspelled the photographer's name. It is Henri Dauman.
      