
        Dr. Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, a Nobel laureate in physics whose discovery about the evolution of stars pointed toward the existence of "black holes," died yesterday at the University of Chicago Hospitals. He was 84 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a spokesman for the University of Chicago.
        Dr. Chandrasekhar, who was born in colonial India and was affiliated with the University of Chicago for 50 years, was the first to postulate the existence of objects so dense that nothing, not even light, could escape them. He found that when a star much more massive than the Sun exhausted its fuel it would collapse indefinitely. The result is now defined as either a "black hole" or a neutron star.
        In 1983, for his pioneering work in astrophysics, he shared the Nobel Prize in Physics with Dr. William Fowler of the California Institute of Technology, who was honored for his study of how the elements were formed.
        Through his calculations in 1930 Dr. Chandrasekhar showed that the collapse of a star like the Sun would end in a highly compact and dense state known as a "white dwarf." But, he said, if its mass was much greater, it would continue to collapse, and "one is left speculating on other possibilities."
        The critical mass that makes a star too massive to become a "white dwarf," 1.4 times that of the Sun, is now known as the "Chandrasekhar limit." Speculation by scientists like Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer on what happens to more massive stars led to the concept of black holes with a mass and gravity so strong that no light or anything else could escape.
        Dr. Chandrasekhar, known to students, colleagues and friends as Chandra, was born on Oct. 19, 1910, in Lahore, India, which later became part of Pakistan. The family had a strong scientific tradition. His uncle, Sir Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman, had discovered a form of light scattering known as the Raman effect, for which he won a Nobel Prize in 1930.
        As a teen-ager Dr. Chandrasekhar proved a brilliant mathematician, but Sir Arthur Eddington's writing on astrophysics, in addition to a number of unusual observations, turned his attention to astrophysics. One was the discovery in orbit around Sirius, brightest star in the sky, of a tiny white companion. Its orbital behavior indicated that it was extremely dense. Its message, said Eddington, was, "I am composed of material 3,000 times denser than anything you have come across; a ton of my material would be a little nugget you could put into a matchbox."
        New telescopes showed that such "white dwarfs" were common. By then it had been recognized that atoms were highly compressible but that the gigantic gaseous body of a star was normally supported by radiation from its core. In 1926, Ralph H. Fowler at Cambridge University recognized that once a star's nuclear fuel was exhausted, it would collapse like a punctured balloon, producing a star of great density, a white dwarf.
        After showing great promise at Presidency College in Madras, Dr. Chandrasekhar was awarded a Government of India scholarship in 1930 to study in England. He set forth by ship, hoping to study under Dr. Fowler.
        During the long voyage he studied the implications of relativity theory and the new Fermi-Dirac quantum statistical mechanics for stellar collapse. He calculated what compression-resistant forces within the atom would stop the collapse of a star and form a white dwarf. After several revisions he found that the ability of electrons to resist such compression would be overcome in any star more than 1.4 times the mass of the Sun.
        On his arrival in England the youthful scientist submitted his proposal to the University of Chicago's Astrophysical Journal. His historic paper was greeted with much skepticism, but was published in 1931. In 1935, however, he suffered a humiliating setback when he was invited to present his theory to the Royal Astronomical Society. Present was Eddington, his hero and a towering figure in British science, who without warning ridiculed the Chandrasekhar paper: "The star has to go on radiating and radiating and contracting and contracting until, I suppose, it gets to a few kilometers' radius, when gravity becomes strong enough to hold the radiation and the star can at last have peace."
        This, he said, was a "reductio ad absurdum" of relativity theory. There must be a law of nature "to prevent a star from behaving in this absurd way!"
        The episode, Dr. Chandrasekhar said later, "forced me to carefully consider my reasons for wanting to continue to do astrophysics in the face of such a painful experience." But he later made peace with Eddington, who promoted his election to the Royal Society in 1944.
        In 1931 and 1932 Dr. Chandrasekhar studied in Germany and Denmark, and in 1933 he obtained a doctorate from Cambridge University. Then, on his return to India in 1936, he married a fellow physicist, Lalitha, who survives him. The same year he moved to the University of Chicago and its Yerkes Observatory in Williams Bay, Wis., and thereafter continued his association with the university.
        In 1953 he became a United States citizen, enraging his father, who felt he had betrayed his birthplace, but he remained loyal to his Indian ways, his vegetarianism and deep concern for India's future. He became one of the University of Chicago's most prestigious professors, held in awe (and some trepidation) by his students. He was Morton D. Hull Distinguished Service Professor from 1952 to 1986, when he gained emeritus status.
        He was unusually faithful to his academic obligations. Dr. John T. Wilson, then the acting president of the university, recalled in 1975 that in the 1940's Dr. Chandrasekhar drove 75 miles from the observatory to teach a course in Chicago with only two students and then drove 75 miles back.
        That might have raised questions about the investment of time and energy, Dr. Wilson said, but the Nobel Prize in Physics was awarded in 1957 to the entire class, Tsung Dao Lee and Chen Ning Yang. Reached by telephone Dr. Yang confirmed the account about the driving, but said he thought there were others in the course.
        From 1952 until 1971, Dr. Chandrasekhar was managing editor of The Astrophysical Journal, which became the official organ of the American Astronomical Society.
        During World War II, at the Aberdeen Proving Grounds in Maryland, he worked with other scientists on ballistics but turned down an invitation to join those at Los Alamos, N.M., preparing the atomic bomb.
        He had a passionate interest in literature and classical music, choosing as the subject for a 1975 all-university lecture: "Shakespeare, Newton and Beethoven or Patterns of Creativity." He said that he received the same thrill from a Michelangelo sculpture as from a beautiful mathematical relationship.
        As his career progressed he was noted for changing his focus, reflected in such book titles as "An Introduction to the Study of Stellar Structure" (1939), "Principles of Stellar Dynamics" (1943) and "Radiative Transfer" (1950), all widely used as textbooks, and "The Mathematical Theory of Black Holes" (1983). His most recent study was "Newton's 'Principia' for the Common Reader," (Oxford, 1995). In it he showed that Newton, although using archaic mathematics rather than the calculus which Newton himself had devised, was far ahead of his time.
        In 1962, Queen Elizabeth presented him with the Royal Medal of the Royal Society of London and four years later President Lyndon B. Johnson gave him the National Medal of Science. Among his many other honors were the Bruce Medal of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific, the Gold Medal of the Royal Astronomical Society, the Henry Draper Medal of the National Academy of Sciences, the Copley Medal of the Royal Society of London and a score of honorary degrees.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Chandrasekhar is survived by three sisters and two brothers, all in India.
      