
        Hajime Mitarai, the president of Canon Inc.who helped turn the electronics manufacturer into one of the world's most innovative companies, died early this morning in a Tokyo hospital. He was 56.
        A company spokesman said Mr.  Mitarai, a resident of Tokyo, died from pneumonia after having been hospitalized since July with what at first diagnosed as a bad cold. The company has not yet appointed a new president.
        The American-educated Mr. Mitarai, the eldest son of Canon's co-founder and first president, made his biggest mark in guiding the company's research and development efforts.
        He helped oversee the development of the laser printer, which allowed for versatile printing from computers. Canon makes the innards of the Hewlett-Packard laser printers, the best-selling brand.
        Then he helped in the company's invention of bubble jet printing, known elsewhere as ink-jet printing. Such printers produce clear letters at a relatively low cost.
        As a sign of its innovativeness, Canon last year earned more American patents than any company except I.B.M. In 1992, it ranked first in number of American patents obtained and has consistently been in the top five.
        Hajime Mitarai was born in 1938 in Tokyo. Five years earlier his father, Takeshi Mitarai, a medical doctor by training, had helped start a company to develop what it hoped would be the world's best camera.
        After graduating from high school in Japan in 1957, Mr. Mitarai left for the United States, an unusual step for a Japanese in those days. He received bachelor's and master's degrees in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a Ph.D. from Stanford University.
        Mr. Mitarai actively supported those schools. He served as the president of the organization of M.I.T. alumni in Japan for five years and was also active in the Stanford alumni association. Last June, he was elected a member of the M.I.T. Corporation, the school's equivalent of a board of trustees.
        Mr. Mitarai began his career at Corning Glass Works in 1966. He once told an interviewer that he was comfortable in the United States and hoped to spend his life there. But he later joined Canon in Tokyo in 1974.
        He served as director of research and development from 1978 and 1987. In keeping with Canon's tradition as a lone wolf among Japanese companies, Mr. Mitarai emphasized the development of unique products, rather than copying other companies, as many Japanese companies do. He set up Canon laboratories abroad.
        Mr. Mitarai had said the key to innovation is to emphasize individual effort, as opposed to the group effort common in Japanese companies. The soft-spoken Mr. Mitarai was also somewhat individualistic in private life, shunning the late-hours drinking and entertainment that is the norm for businessmen here and going home to spend time with his wife, Michiko.
        He became the president of Canon in 1993. Under his direction, Canon has fared better than most Japanese exporters in coping with the slowdown caused by the Japanese yen's strength against the dollar.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Mitarai is survived by two sons, Takashi and Tsuyoshi, a daughter, Yumiko, and his mother, Toyoko. A cousin, Fujio, is a vice president of Canon.
      