
        John Erik Jonsson, a Swedish immigrant's son who helped found Texas Instruments and as Mayor of Dallas helped heal that city in the wake of President John F. Kennedy's assassination, died on Thursday night at his home in Dallas. He was 93.
        Mr. Jonsson helped build Texas Instruments from a tiny local company that built devices to aid in oil and gas exploration into an electronics giant, the inventor of the integrated circuit. But it was his role in helping a stricken city regain its self-confidence in the wake of President Kennedy's assassination that was perhaps his greatest contribution.
        He served as Mayor from 1964 to 1971, entering office reluctantly after local business leaders drafted him when the sitting Mayor ran for Congress. Mr. Jonsson won re-election three times and spearheaded projects like the mammoth Dallas-Fort Worth Regional Airport, the University of Texas at Dallas and an extensive highway program. In so doing, some fellow citizens remembered Saturday, he lifted the self-esteem of a city that felt itself the object of almost universal scorn.
        "As Mayor he was the architect and driving force of modern Dallas," said Steve Bartlett, Mayor from 1991 until this year. "He took us from what was arguably the worst of times -- post-assassination days -- to the best of times, the boom of Dallas from just another regional city to a global capital. He got us focused back on building our own city."
        After the shock of the assassination, several people in Dallas remembered yesterday, Mr. Jonsson vigorously urged his fellow citizens to move forward and not dwell on the tragedy. Still, he did not try to hide the fact of Dallas's role as the site of the President's death. At a memorial service in Dealey Plaza in 1967, Mr. Jonsson remembered the late President and said, "None knew better than President Kennedy that we cannot look inward to our own problems alone."
        President Kennedy had been en route to a luncheon speech at the Dallas Trade Mart hosted by Mr. Jonsson when he was struck down by the assassin's bullet in the plaza. Mr. Jonsson had to deliver the news to the crowded room.
        Mr. Jonsson's optimism was a guiding theme of his business career as well. He helped turn a modest World War II defense contractor into a global high-tech innovator with sales approaching $2 billion by the time he retired from Texas Instruments' board of directors in 1977. C. J. Thomsen, who worked with Mr. Jonsson at Texas Instruments from 1946 until the latter's retirement, said that the hallmark of his success as a businessman was that "in almost everything he was involved in, he had a talent for picking the right person in the particular spot."
        Mr. Jonsson was born on Sept. 6, 1901, in Brooklyn, the son of a cigar and candy store owner. The family moved to Montclair, N.J., when Mr. Jonsson was a child. After working his way through Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., he went to work for the Aluminum Company of America in 1922. After an unsuccessful stint at an automobile dealership in Newark, he was hired in 1930 to run the laboratory of Geophysical Service Inc., which was developing means to search for oil seismographically. That company became Texas Instruments some 20 years later.
        In 1934 Mr. Jonsson moved to Dallas to help run the growing company, and fell in love with the city. During the war, Mr. Jonsson helped G.S.I. win lucrative defense contracts, and in 1951 became president. That was the year the name was changed to Texas Instruments. Seven years later a Texas Instruments engineer invented the integrated circuit, and Mr. Jonsson became chairman of the board. Years of civic and business accomplishment followed; among many institutions bearing his mark is the main public library in Dallas, which is named after him. As Mayor in 1967, he pushed through the largest bond issue in the history of the city to that time, $175 million, for civic improvements.
        Survivors include his daughter, Margaret Jonsson Rogers; two sons, Ken Jonsson and Philip Jonsson; 12 grandchildren, and 14 great grandchildren.
      