
        Romulo Escobar Bethancourt, Panama's chief negotiator in 1977 when the United States agreed to give up control of the Panama Canal, died on Thursday at a hospital in Panama City. He was 68.
        The cause was throat cancer, local news reports said.
        A political advocate who was jailed in his youth, Dr. Escobar retained a leftist reputation as he became a national leader with the savvy to survive several regimes. He served as president of the Democratic Revolutionary Party, which was founded by Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera and functioned as the political arm of the military. It continues in power today.
        After the treaty negotiations in the 1970's, Dr. Escobar returned to international attention in 1988, when he represented Panama in talks over Washington's demand for the removal of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega as the leader of Panama. He also served as the general's chief political adviser.
        "We don't accept that the United States can dictate when we can or cannot be in our country, be it Noriega or any other Panamanian," Dr. Escobar said. But he failed to dissuade the United States, which invaded Panama in late 1989 to sieze General Noriega -- and to arrest Dr. Escobar.
        The canal treaties were the culmination of 13 years of intermittent talks. In 1977 Dr. Escobar finally succeeded in forging a tentative agreement with representatives of President Jimmy Carter.
        In both countries, the rocky ratification debates provoked debate from critics who said their side had made too many concessions. Leading the campaign for the treaties at home, Dr. Escobar sometimes made pro-Panama interpretations of the documents that enraged American critics and jeopardized approval by the United States Senate.
        The treaties returned most of the 533-square-mile Canal Zone to Panama in 1979. The treaties also provide that the canal itself be turned over by 2000, when American military bases will also be restored to Panama and the last of the American troops there will be withdrawn.
        Dr. Escobar argued that the treaties would restore Panama's "full physiognomy as a nation."
        In planning to dig the strategic canal, the United States took over the Canal Zone "in perpetuity" in 1903, in a treaty that was wrested from Panama when it had been independent for only 15 days.
        The treaty became a stubborn thorn in Panamanian sovereignty and pride. In supporting the 1977 agreement to regain the canal by 2000, General Torrijos, then Panama's leader, said: "The treaty is like a small stone in a shoe that one must suffer for 23 years in order to remove a nail from one's heart."
      