
        Daniel M. Galbreath, whose family owned the Pittsburgh Pirates when they won three World Series and the Darby Dan Farm when it won the Kentucky Derby twice, died at the farm in Galloway, Ohio, outside Columbus on Sunday. He was 67.
        The cause of death was cancer, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Galbreath, a son of John W. Galbreath, ran the Galbreath Company as chairman and chief executive officer from 1980 until last month. The company was established by his father in 1921 and became an international leader in real estate development, management and leasing.
        He also served as a member of the Federal Reserve Bank board and the Jockey Club, chairman of the Wildlife Conservation Fund of America and a director of Churchill Downs, the Keeneland Association and the National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame.
        But his family's most dramatic success probably came as full or part owner of the Pirates from the late 1940's until the early 1980's. The team won the National League pennant and then the World Series in 1960, 1971 and 1979. The 1960 championship came on a home run by Bill Mazeroski in the bottom of the ninth inning of the seventh game against the New York Yankees and touched off one of the most clamorous scenes of civic celebration in baseball history.
        In racing, the Darby Dan Farm saddled four national champions and won the Kentucky Derby in 1963 with Chateaugay, who also was voted 3-year-old champion, and in 1967 with Proud Clarion. It also raced Roberto, who won the 1972 Epsom Derby; Little Current, 3-year-old champion in 1974; Tempest Queen, 3-year-old filly champion in 1978, and Sunshine Forever, champion turf horse in 1989.
        The Galbreath real-estate empire was shaken in the early 1990's when several creditors sued for repayment of millions of dollars in loans. But in the settlements, the family retained the Darby Dan farms in Ohio and Kentucky.
        Mr. Galbreath was graduated from Amherst College in 1950 and from the graduate school of Ohio State University.
        He is survived by two daughters, Lizanne Galbreath, who was recently named chief executive of the family business, and Laurie Nichols; a son, John W. Galbreath 2d, and five grandchildren.
      