
        Dr. George deStevens, a chemist who discovered a drug that is one of the most widely used treatments for high blood pressure, died on Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 71 and lived in Summit.
        The cause was lymphoma, according to the Brough Funeral Home in Summit.
        At his death, Dr. deStevens was director of the Charles A. Dana Research Institute for Scientists Emeriti at Drew University in Madison, N.J.
        Dr. Frank Bullock, a former research chemist at the Schering-Plough Corporation of Madison who is now a consultant at Arthur D. Little in Cambridge, Mass., said Dr. deStevens was one of two researchers whom "those of us who learned medicinal chemistry in the 1960's looked to."
        During a long career at the Ciba Pharmaceutical Company and later Ciba-Geigy, Dr. deStevens helped develop drug treatments for illnesses like tuberculosis, epilepsy and arthritis. But it was for his work on diuretics that he is best known.
        In 1955, Dr. deStevens joined Ciba Pharmaceutical in Summit as a senior research chemist, and discovered two diuretics, hydrochlorothiazide and cyclopenthiazide. Since 1958, hydrochlorothiazide, which Ciba-Geigy distributes under the brand name Esidrix, has been the most widely prescribed diuretic used to treat high blood pressure, the company said.
        After those discoveries, Dr. deStevens served in several research and executive positions at Ciba Pharmaceutical and its successor company. When he left Ciba-Geigy in 1979 to join the faculty of Drew University, Dr. deStevens was executive vice president and director of research.
        George DeStevens was born in North Tarrytown, N.Y., on Aug. 21, 1924. He received bachelor's and master's degrees and, in 1953, a Ph.D. in organic chemistry and enzymology from Fordham University.
        In 1980, he founded an international journal, Medicinal Research Reviews. He was the author or co-author of 115 papers and held 100 patents in organic chemistry and medicinal research. He wrote two books, "Diuretics, Chemistry and Pharmacology" and "Analgesics," both published by Academic Press.
        In 1991, the American Chemical Society made Dr. deStevens the first recipient of the E. B. Hershberg Award for Important Discoveries in Medicinally Active Substances, and this year, he was inducted into the New Jersey Inventors Hall of Fame for his discovery of hydrochlorothiazide.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruby.
      