
        Ricardo Sanchez, a high school dropout and ex-convict whose raging cries for cultural justice gave poetic voice to the Chicano protest movement of the 1970's, died on Sunday at a hospital in El Paso. He was 54.
        Until a diagnosis of terminal stomach cancer forced him to take medical leave last spring, he was a tenured professor of creative writing and Chicano studies at Washington State University.
        For Mr. Sanchez, who spent nine years in Texas and California prisons in the 1960's before receiving a doctorate from the Union Institute in Cincinnati without benefit of a bachelor's degree, the academic appointment reflected his transformation from angry young poet to elder statesman of modern Chicano literature, a genre that his startling, angry verse is credited with helping to create a quarter of a century ago.
        A big, bearded, bespectacled man who favored silver rings and turquoise jewelry, Mr. Sanchez was the envy of his more academic-oriented colleagues for his ability to stride into El Paso restaurants and deliver a poem on the spot, reciting not from memory but from the moment.
        Even after he joined the Washington State faculty in 1990, he continued to speak primarily to those who shared his experience of growing up poor and shunned in a relatively wealthy society. And when he did, it was generally in a booming voice that would reverberate over the din of shabby barrooms or resound through an urban plaza, as it did during a protest march in Denver in 1970, when he stood on the steps of the Colorado state capitol and declaimed from his poem, "Indict Amerika,": "venomous putain nation, genuflector to the dollar signs"
        Mr. Sanchez, who was reared in the Barrio del Diablo in El Paso, a few blocks downwind, he liked to point out, from the county sewage plant, traced his interest in poetry -- and part of his anger -- to the third grade, when he blurted out that he wanted to be a poet and was rebuked by his teacher. Chicano boys, he was told, grew up not to be poets but to be janitors.
        After dropping out of high school to join the Army, he obtained a high school equivalency diploma, but his real education did not begin, he later said, until he was sent to Soledad Prison in California for a series of armed robberies. He later served time in Texas for another robbery, but although he credited his extensive readings from the Soledad library for his erudition, he rejected any attempt to romanticize prison life.
        In 1970, the year he was released from prison, his poems were included in a Chicano anthology, but it was not until the next year that the initial publication "Canto y Grito Mi Liberacion/The Liberation of a Chicano Mind," made him a force in the Chicano movement.
        The book, which has been reissued with additional poems by the Washington State University Press, was followed by half a dozen others, among them, "Brown Bear Honey Madness: Alaskan Cruising Poems" (1981), "Amsterdam Cantos" (1983), "Selected Poems" (1985) and "Eagle-Visioned/Feathered Adobes" (1990).
        His work has largely been eclipsed by younger Chicano writers, some of whom he had inspired to take up writing after he showed the way with such revolutionary words as a 1970 verse that consigned wealthy El Paso mountainside neighborhoods to flames:
        burn, burn, burn
        desde Wilshire a River Oaks
        kern place to sutton place,
        burn, burn, burn. . . .
        Although he insisted to the end that he was still fueled by anger, Mr. Sanchez sometimes adopted a more forgiving line in his later works, as he did in a 1980's poem, "Nos Sentamos" ("Let us Sit"), which reads in part:
        el paso,
        southernmost city
        of New Mexico,
        westernmost city
        of Tejas,
        you recline
        between nations
        and feed tensions
        amidst
        peoples distrusting
        each other,
        all
        the
        while
        desert visages
        dance
        upon sage,
        sand
        and smog filled skies,
        your mountains
        fear
        that someday
        greenery
        might bloom
        upon them,
        and sometimes
        you whitewash murals
        that people
        might not learn
        to laugh and sing.
        He is survived by his wife, Teresa; two sons, Rikard, of Osaka, Japan, and Jacinto, of El Paso; a daughter, Libertad Jones of El Paso; two brothers, Manolo, of Belen, N.M., and Luis, of Houston; three sisters, Mary Ortiz of El Paso, Helen Tellex of Rancho Cucamanga, Calif., Kathy Cuellar of San Diego and Rosemary Mendez of Moreno Valley, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      