
        Charles Denner, a French stage and film actor who is best remembered for his role in Francois Truffaut's screen comedy "The Man Who Loved Women," died on Sunday at a hospital near his home in Dreux, west of Paris. He was 69.
        No cause of death was given, but he had been fighting cancer for more than a decade.
        During an acting career that began when he was 19, Mr. Denner worked with many of the most prominent French movie directors of the postwar era, including Louis Malle, Claude Chabrol, Claude Lelouch, Yves Allegret and Claude Berri as well as the Greek-born Costa-Gavras. A slightly built man with bushy eyebrows, dark hair and an immediately identifiable voice, Mr. Denner often played introspective characters who considered distrust of the world to be elementary common sense. But he was also a talented comic actor who extracted humor from the accidents of life.
        Born into a Jewish family in Poland in 1926, he was only 4 years old when his parents moved to France. He survived the Nazi occupation of France during World War II and in 1945 began studying acting and appearing in small roles on stage. In 1949 he was noticed by the great French director Jean Vilar and was invited to join the Theatre National Populaire.
        In 1955 Mr. Denner began his movie career, playing opposite Gerard Philipe in Mr. Allegret's "Meilleure Part." In 1958 he made a film with Mr. Malle and in the 1960's worked several times with Mr. Chabrol, gaining particular note for his role as a suave but murderous womanizer in "Landru."
        In 1966, Mr. Berri cast him in the role of the director's own father in his autobiographical film "Le Vieil Homme et l'Enfant," about a Jewish child hidden on a French farm during the Nazi occupation. In 1968 he starred in Costa-Gavras's "Z," and in the 1970's he made no fewer than five films with Mr. Lelouch, the best known of these being "Robert et Robert."
        He also worked on three occasions with Mr. Truffaut, appearing in "The Bride Wore Black" (1968), "Such a Gorgeous Kid Like Me" (1972) and "The Man Who Loved Women" (1977). It was his role in "The Man Who Loved Women" that was most widely recalled by French newspapers today. In this film, he played an unlikely Don Juan from the French provinces whose obsession with women is tempered only by his desire to write. In total, Mr. Denner appeared in 38 films before retiring in 1986 because of illness.
        No information on survivors was available.
      