
        Charles J. Hitch, who served as president of the University of California at a time of campus unrest, budgetary restraints and legislative and administrative intervention, died yesterday in a rest home in San Leandro, Calif. Mr. Hitch, who lived in Berkeley, Calif., was 85.
        An economist and Rhodes scholar who compiled an impressive record in academic and administrative posts, Mr. Hitch came to the nation's largest education institution -- then nine campuses with an enrollment approaching 90,000 -- from the Pentagon. As an Assistant Secretary of Defense from 1961 to 1965 in the Administrations of John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, Mr. Hitch was the controller who revolutionized military budgeting and prepared detailed military spending plans that accounted for roughly 55 cents of every dollar taxpayers paid the Federal Government.
        In May 1965, he announced that he was leaving his post at the Pentagon to become vice chancellor of the University of California, where he would manage fiscal affairs.
        In September 1967, the regents of the university ended a seven-month quest for a new president by unanimously choosing Mr. Hitch, then 57, to succeed Dr. Clark Kerr, whom they had dismissed the previous January, not long after the election of Gov. Ronald Reagan. Mr. Reagan had criticized Dr. Kerr frequently during his campaign and moved to cut higher education appropriations soon after taking office.
        When Mr. Hitch became president of the University of California, it was already three years into the era of student activism ushered in by the Free Speech Movement at Berkeley. The pragmatic Mr. Hitch tried to steer a course through the acrimony generated by restive, sometimes riotous students and a punitive Governor and Legislature.
        Mr. Hitch's efforts to retain the university's autonomy were not always successful. The university was compelled to abandon its free-tuition policy, to surrender to the regents its authority to appoint and promote tenured faculty and to take orders from the Legislature on disciplining students.
        In 1975, when student unrest had given way to increased concern over budget cuts, Mr. Hitch retired. It had been announced the previous October that he had been elected president of Resources for the Future, a research organization in Washington concerned with natural resources. He retired in 1978.
        Charles Johnson Hitch was born on Jan. 9, 1910, in Boonville, Mo. His father, Arthur, was a teacher and administrator at the Kemper Military School and College in Boonville, where Mr. Hitch graduated from the junior college in 1929.
        Mr. Hitch received a bachelor of arts degree in economics from the University of Arizona in 1931. After a year of graduate work at Harvard, he won a Rhodes scholarship to Oxford University, where he earned a master's in 1935 and taught at Queen's College until 1948, with time out for World War II.
        During the war, Mr. Hitch served as a staff economist on W. Averell Harriman's first lend-lease mission in London and with the War Production Board in Washington. In 1943, Mr. Hitch joined the Army and was assigned to the Office of Strategic Services. Two years later, he was discharged as a first lieutenant.
        In 1948, Mr. Hitch joined the Rand Corporation, the nonprofit research organization. While there, Mr. Hitch and Ronald N. McKean wrote "The Economics of Defense in the Nuclear Age" (Harvard University Press, 1960). That work prompted Robert S. McNamara, who was to become Secretary of Defense, to invite Mr. Hitch to join President-elect Kennedy's Administration.
        At the Pentagon, Mr. Hitch scrapped the system in which each service presented budget claims for programs that often conflicted. Mr. Hitch budgeted functionally, according to missions, and projected costs over five years.
        Mr. Hitch's wife, the former Nancy Winslow Squire, whom he married in 1942, died in 1983. He is survived by his daughter, Caroline Hitch Rubio of Hayward, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      