
        Jeremy Brett, who incarnated Sherlock Holmes in the long-running "Mystery!" series on Public Television, died on Tuesday in London. He was 59.
        The cause was heart failure, according to Granada Television, which produced the series.
        More than any other actor since Basil Rathbone, Mr. Brett was regarded as the quintessential Holmes: breathtakingly analytical, given to outrageous disguises and the blackest moods and relentless in his enthusiasm for solving the most intricate crimes.
        The actor regarded the detective as "a black-and-white figure moving through a world of color," as a "man without a heart," but within those parameters he performed with a demonic intensity.
        He portrayed Holmes in more than 40 episodes, running a wide range of Arthur Conan Doyle cases. In 1988, at the height of his Holmes fame, he played him on the London stage in "The Secret of Sherlock Holmes" by Jeremy Paul. In that play, his Watson was Edward Hardwicke, who was most often his partner in sleuthing on television. Mr. Brett's association with Doyle began in 1981 when he appeared in "The Crucifer of Blood" in Los Angeles. That time he was Watson to Charlton Heston's Holmes.
        Behind Mr. Brett's Holmesian interpretation was a rewarding and diverse career. He performed with equal ease in Shakespeare, Congreve and Shaw, was a dashing leading man in romantic comedies and also sang in musicals. (He was the impassioned Freddy Eynsford-Hill opposite Audrey Hepburn in the movie of "My Fair Lady.") He acted with England's National Theater and at Canada's Stratford Festival. On television he appeared on "Masterpiece Theater" (in "On Approval" and "The Good Soldier") as well as the "Mystery" series (as Max de Winter in "Rebecca" before he became Holmes).
        Mr. Brett, whose original name was Peter Jeremy Huggins, was born in Berkswell, England, on Nov. 3, 1935. After Eton, he studied at the Central School of Speech and Drama. His first London appearance was at the Old Vic in "Troilus and Cressida" in 1956. That year he also made his Broadway debut with the Old Vic. As a young actor, he moved between classics and modern plays; in 1961 he played Hamlet on the West End and was in "The Kitchen" (by Arnold Wesker) at the Royal Court.
        On Broadway he acted in "The Deputy" by Rolf Hochhuth and starred with Rex Harrison and Claudette Colbert in a 1985 revival of Frederick Lonsdale's "Aren't We All?" He was the narrator for Martha Graham's "Song" and toured the United States in the title role of "Dracula." His films included "War and Peace" and "Nicholas and Alexandra."
        When he began playing Holmes on British television in 1984, he thought it was "the most dangerous thing" he had ever done. Because of the familiarity of the character, he worried that it would end his career. Instead, by moving into 221B Baker Street, Mr. Brett discovered his signature role.
        He married the actress Anna Massey in 1958; they had one son, Daniel, and were divorced in 1962. In 1978, he married Joan Wilson, who was the producer of both "Mystery" and "Masterpiece Theater" until her death in 1985.
      