
        Herbert S. Bridge, a scientist who had a pivotal role in the exploration of the solar system by unmanned spacecraft and in mapping the solar winds swirling through interplanetary space, died on Wednesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 76 and lived in Sudbury, Mass.
        The cause was coronary artery disease, his family said.
        Dr. Bridge retired as director of the Center for Space Research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1984, when he became professor of physics emeritus. He had joined the center as associate director at its inception in 1965 and was appointed director in 1978.
        He led a team of M.I.T. scientists who designed and built an instrument for the study of interplanetary plasma, called the modulated-grid Faraday cup after Michael Faraday, the 19th-century English scientist known for his work with electricity and magnetism.
        The instrument was placed aboard the Explorer X spacecraft in 1961 and provided the first direct evidence of a dilute -- or tenuous -- plasma in interplanetary space, the supersonically expanding outer atmosphere of the Sun. It also supplied preliminary data on the density and velocity of that plasma.
        Dr. Bridge later served as the principal investigator on space-plasma experiments aboard unmanned scientific missions to every planet except Pluto. Plasma probes successfully flew on seven NASA Earth satellites, two deep-space probes and four planetary missions. They provided data on Earth's magnetosphere and the interactions of the solar wind with the Moon, Venus, Mercury, Mars, Jupiter, Uranus and Neptune.
        Herbert Sage Bridge was born in Berkeley, Calif. He graduated from the University of Maryland in 1941 and received his Ph.D. in physics at M.I.T. in 1950. From then until 1966, when he was appointed a professor, he was a researcher at the M.I.T. Laboratory for Nuclear Science. His early work on cosmic rays focused on nuclear interactions produced by cosmic ray particles and on the new, unstable particles that result.
        Dr. Bridge is survived by his wife, Jeanne Hall Bridge; two sons, Raymond, of Boulder, Colo., and Bill, of Thetford, Vt.; a daughter, Clare Bridge of York, Mont.; two brothers, James, of Los Alamos, N.M., and Richard, of Silver Spring, Md.; and four grandchildren.
      