
        Malvin R. Goode, the first black correspondent on network television news, died on Tuesday at St. Margaret's Memorial Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 87.
        Mr. Goode lived in Pittsburgh, where he got his start in print and television reporting.
        He was hired by ABC News in 1962, at age 54, on the recommendation of his friend, the baseball player Jackie Robinson. Mr. Goode was almost immediately assigned to ABC's bureau at the United Nations.
        The ABC anchor Peter Jennings, who considered Mr. Goode a mentor, said yesterday: "Mal could have very sharp elbows. If he was on a civil rights story and anyone even appeared to give him any grief because he was black he made it more than clear that this was now a free country."
        A native of Pittsburgh, Mr. Goode was a grandson of slaves who worked in the steel mills to pay his way through the University of Pittsburgh, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1931.
        After college, he worked as a probation officer, director of a local Y.M.C.A. and a member of the management staff of the Pittsburgh Housing Authority. In 1948 he became a reporter with The Pittsburgh Courier, a newspaper serving the black community. A year later, he was hired as a commentator on a radio station, KQV, followed by a six-year stint as a television news co-anchor on WHOD in suburban Pittsburgh, working alongside his sister, the late Mary Dee.
        During his 11 years at ABC, Mr. Goode also covered the Cuban missile crisis and the 1964 and 1968 Republican and Democratic national conventions, as well as many of the major events of the civil rights struggle.
        ABC's medical correspondent, George Strait, said of Mr. Goode: He refused to be pigeon-holed. He wouldn't let them assign him only to so-called black stories."
        "He opened the way for the next generation," added Mr. Strait, who is black. "And that's why I'm on the medical beat."
        Mr. Goode is survived by his wife, Mary, of Pittsburgh; four sons, Robert, of Pittsburgh, Malvin Jr., of Honolulu, Richard, of Atlanta and Ronald, of Pittsburgh; two daughters, Roberta Wilbur of Teaneck, N.J., and Rosalia Parker of Pittsburgh; seven grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      