
        Tom Helmore, a debonair Broadway and film actor in the 1940's and 50's, died on Tuesday in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 91.
        On stage and in films, Mr. Helmore specialized in comedies, playing opposite Katharine Cornell, Ginger Rogers and Jane Wyman, among others. He was the standby to Rex Harrison as Henry Higgins in the original production of "My Fair Lady" and later toured in the musical. He also appeared in Alfred Hitchcock's "Vertigo" with James Stewart and Kim Novak.
        He was born in England on Jan. 4, 1904. In the 1920's he was an apprentice in his father's accounting firm while working as an extra in films. Subsequently he acted in London and in English films. In 1939, he made his Broadway debut in S. N. Behrman's "No Time for Comedy," starring Ms. Cornell. Six years later he married Ms. Cornell's understudy, Mary Drayton, an actress turned playwright.
        After serving in the Royal Air Force during World War II, he returned to the stage. In 1945, he appeared on Broadway in the Alan Jay Lerner-Frederick Loewe musical "The Day Before Spring," which led directly to his Hollywood career.
        His films included "Let's Do It Again" and "Lucy Gallant" (both with Ms. Wyman), "Trouble Along the Way," "Designing Woman" (with Lauren Bacall), "The Tender Trap" and "The Time Machine."
        Periodically he acted on the New York stage: in the Theater Guild revival of Shaw's "You Never Can Tell," Benn W. Levy's "Clutterbuck," "Legend of Sarah," "Love and Let Love" (with Ms. Rogers), "The Winner" by Elmer Rice and "Debut," written by Ms. Drayton. In his review of "Debut" in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson was scathing about the play but praised Mr. Helmore as "dapper, genial and relaxed as usual."
        In 1965 he was in "The Playroom," a thriller by Ms. Drayton, and three years later he played a Cockney millionaire in the Off Broadway revival of the Harold Arlen-Truman Capote musical "House of Flowers."
        On television he starred in an adaptation of "Of Human Bondage" and appeared on "Playhouse 90," "Studio One" and other television dramatic programs. In 1964, his novel "Affair at Quala" was published by Simon & Schuster.
        Mr. Helmore's wife died last year.  He is survived by a daughter, Kristin, of Clinton, Conn.
      