
        Wilson Desir, the Haitian freedom fighter who served his people as a beacon of hope and a pillar of aid and comfort through two decades of exile in New York, died on Wednesday at Brookdale Hospital in Brooklyn.
        He was 57, and at his death he was the Haitian Consul General in New York, a post he had held through further tumult and exile since his appointment by President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in April 1991.
        The cause of death was given as complications of diabetes, but as his long-time friend, the Vice Consul, Guy Ferdinand, suggested yesterday, Mr. Desir may simply have been drained by a quarter-century of open-handed service to Haitians.
        "He was a tree," Mr. Ferdinand said. "People would come to the tree and take a piece of fruit."
        Long before he became Haiti's man in New York, Mr. Desir was the Haitians' man in New York, operating what amounted to a combination bank, employment agency, information service, and welfare center for his fellow exiles at a storefront on Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn.
        Ostensibly he ran a translation and accounting service, but the big red and yellow banner outside read simply, "Wilson Desir's Office." And as the number of Haitians in New York rose from a few thousand to as many as 400,000, every crisis in Haiti or problem in New York drew them to the man they knew would help whether they needed a job, a handout or news from a relative in Haiti.
        A native of Port-au-Prince, who played soccer and served in the Coast Guard before studying law, languages and diplomacy, Mr. Desir was forced into exile in 1970, when he helped lead an abortive coup against the Haitian dictator Francois Duvalier.
        Mr. Desir, who used his New York base to work for the overthrow of the two-generation Duvalier regime, returned briefly to Haiti in 1986 after President Jean-Claude Duvalier was driven into exile.
        But the next year, after a military junta thwarted free elections, Mr. Desir, who had gone on Haitian radio to insist on democracy, fled to New York once again.
        Mr. Desir, who remained loyal to President Aristide after he, too, was driven into exile in 1991, rejoiced when Father Aristide was returned to power earlier this year.
        "He had no time for himsef, only for the Haitian community," Mr. Ferdinand said, noting that the hundreds of Haitians who came to the Desir home in Brooklyn yesterday were a tribute to his standing.
        Indeed, when Mr. Desir was asked why he didn't run for president, he had a stock reply: "Why should I go back to Haiti? I am already president here."
        His survivors include his wife, Marie Jose; three sons, Phillipe and Patrick of Brooklyn and Joelle Pierre of Port-au-Prince; a daughter, Nadega of Queens; two brothers, his twin, Wilfrid of Brooklyn and Edith of Queens; three sisters, including Gislaine Guillaume of Brooklyn, Noisette Chapuset of Queens, and two grandhchildren.
      