
        Bishop Emerson J. Moore, an auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York who was an outspoken advocate of racial equality, died on Thursday. He was 57.
        He had been ill for several years and died of unknown natural causes, said a spokesman for the archdiocese, Joseph Zwilling.
        Bishop Moore, the first black bishop of the New York archdiocese, was a founder and chairman of the archdiocesan Office for Black Ministry.
        In 1984, he was one of a number of prominent New Yorkers, including David N. Dinkins, then the City Clerk, arrested during daily protests against apartheid outside of the South African Consulate in Manhattan.
        A year later, at St. Charles Borromeo Church in Harlem, where he remained pastor even after he assumed his diocesan duties, Bishop Moore spoke at a meeting of black American bishops -- called by John Cardinal O'Connor to discuss the role of blacks in the church hierarchy -- and said: "Racism is sin that must always be on the agenda of the church. Things will get better, but it will take time."
        The Bishop, one of eight auxiliary bishops in the archdiocese, was also a member of the New York State Commission on Government Integrity. After a spate of municipal scandals, it issued a report in 1989 recommending broad changes in New York City's personnel system to insulate it from political pressures and patronage.
        Born into a Baptist family in Harlem, Bishop Moore was a convert to Catholicism. He graduated from St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers in 1960 and was ordained four years later.
        After five years as assistant pastor at Holy Family Church on East 47th Street, he became director of the Lieut. Joseph Kennedy Jr. Memorial Community Center in Harlem and director of the central Harlem office of Catholic Charities.
        In 1975, he was appointed pastor of St. Charles Borromeo Church, where four years later he greeted Pope John Paul II. Soon after returning to Rome, the Pope named Father Moore a monsignor, then in July 1982, elevated him to auxiliary bishop.
        Bishop Moore is survived by his father, Emerson, of Manhattan, and two sisters.
      