
        Douglass Cater, a soft-spoken student and practitioner of government power who began his working life as a journalist and ended it as a college president -- after a heady detour through Lyndon B. Johnson's White House -- died yesterday at the guest house at Washington College in Chestertown, Md.
        He was 72 and had lived in Montgomery, Ala., since his retirement as the president of the college in 1990.
        His wife, Libby, said that her husband, who was stricken during a visit to the college six weeks ago, died of pulmonary fibrosis.
        By the time he went to the White House in 1964 at age 40, Mr. Cater was already an old Washington hand. An original editor of The Reporter magazine, he had spent 14 years covering Washington and national affairs, with occasional time off to write books or serve as a Government consultant.
        Indeed, he began his stint as a special assistant to President Johnson two months after the publication of his third book, "Power in Washington."
        It was a measure of Mr. Cater's evenhandedness that five years before his journalist's examination of Government power, he had given his own profession the same treatment in "The Fourth Branch of Government."
        Mr. Cater, who had written admiringly of Johnson's use of power as Senate majority leader, had been asked to join his Vice Presidential staff in 1963, but had demurred.
        At the time, Mr. Cater was on a leave from his magazine working as associate director of the Center of Advanced Studies at Wesleyan University in Connecticut and wanted to finish his book.
        The second call -- this time from the White House -- "got his attention," Mrs. Cater recalled yesterday.
        Mr. Cater, who was given a vague mandate to "think ahead" and had been told by other Presidential assistants that they "made it up" as they went along, took a while to find his niche.
        The breakthrough, his wife said, came when he noticed that Johnson's face lit up whenever he read a memorandum on education. Taking the Presidential visage as his guide, Mr. Cater became the resident education specialist, with far-reaching results, among them the first legislation establishing Federal aid to education as a national norm.
        "It was one of his proudest achievements," his wife said, recalling that another was the spadework her husband did in creating the Public Broadcasting System.
        Mr. Cater, who left the White House in 1968 to join Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey's Presidential campaign staff, later worked as an executive of The Observer and joined the Aspen Institute, which became his base as a freelance writer and political gadfly before taking the Washington College post in 1982.
        A native of Montgomery, Mr. Cater, whose full name was Silas Douglass Cater Jr., came by his interest in government naturally. His father, Silas Cater, was a politically attuned lawyer who served in the Alabama Legislature and later became Montgomery City Clerk.
        After attending Exeter, Mr. Cater went on to Harvard, interrupting his education during World War II to serve as a Russian specialist with the Office of Strategic Services in Washington, an experience he found so dull, his wife said, that he vowed never again to work as a specialist but to operate as a generalist.
        By most accounts he did that brilliantly, earning a reputation as a civilizing influence who brought thoughtfulness to both his extensive writings and his other work.
        Resorting to reason when others might rail, Mr. Cater was forever preaching the value of civilized discourse.
        In 1984, for example, he persuaded two former Presidents and six former Secretaries of State to endorse a bipartisan statement urging Presidential candidates to moderate their comments on foreign affairs.
        Mr. Cater, who wrote widely, including a number of articles on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times, had less success in a campaign to persuade the news media, particularly television, to moderate their voices in reporting on Government.
        Although his published works on Government were widely praised, perhaps his greatest achievement as a writer was his lone and daring venture into fiction, his 1970 novel "Dana: The Irrelevant Man."
        There have been many excellent factual accounts of Washington, of course, but in his review in The Times, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt suggested that Mr. Cater had pulled off something of a miracle in a well-abused genre, proving "that wise reporters can write fiction after all."
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Cater is survived by two sons, Silas 3d, of San Rafael, Calif., and Ben, of Baltimore; two daughters, Sage, of Montgomery and Morrow Scheer, of San Rafael; a brother, William, of Millburn, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      