
        Michio Watanabe, one of the most influential politicians in Japan and long an aspirant to become Prime Minister, died early this morning in a Tokyo hospital. He was 72.
        His aides said the cause of death was heart failure. Mr. Watanabe had been in poor health for three years.
        Mr. Watanabe was a leader of the Liberal Democratic Party, which held power for 38 years until being toppled in 1993. He served as Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister from November 1991 to April 1993. Before that he led the ministries of trade, finance, agriculture and health and welfare.
        In March, Mr. Watanabe led a delegation to North Korea, where Japan and North Korea agreed to resume talks aimed at normalizing relations. But the talks, which were suspended in 1992, have not yet reopened.
        Colorful and outspoken, Mr. Watanabe created some international uproars with ill-considered remarks.
        In 1988, for example, he said American blacks had no qualms about not paying their bills. That set off a round of criticism about Japanese racial attitudes, prompting Mr. Watanabe to apologize and retract his remarks.
        This past June, Mr. Watanabe again apologized after setting off protests in South Korea by saying that Japan's annexation of Korea in 1910 had been done amicably, with Korean consent.
        Mr. Watanabe made little secret of his ambition to become Prime Minister. He lost twice, in 1991 and 1993, in elections to become the president of the Liberal Democratic Party, a post that carries with it the premiership if the party is in power. In 1994, after the Liberal Democrats had lost power, Mr. Watanabe considered jumping to another party if it would support him for Prime Minister, but he gave up after failing to attract enough supporters.
        Mr. Watanabe was born on July 28, 1923, the son of a soldier. His mother died 10 days after he was born, and he was raised by an uncle and aunt on a farm. He graduated from the Tokyo University of Commerce and became an accountant. He was elected to the lower house of Parliament in 1963 and held his seat ever since.
        In 1992, when he was Foreign Minister, Mr. Watanabe was hospitalized for what were described as gallstones. Rumors spread that he was more seriously ill, and he resigned as Foreign Minister for health reasons in April 1993.
        He is survived by his wife, Sumiko; two sons, Yoshimi and Michiaki; a daughter, Miyuki, and seven grandchildren.
      