
        Sir Alastair Pilkington, who developed the flotation process that revolutionized the way flat glass is formed, died in London on May 5. He was 75.
        The cause of death was a brain tumor, said Elaine Frater, a friend of the Pilkington family
        Pilkington P.L.C. became the largest flat glass company in the world, mainly as a result of Sir Alastair's emphasis on using the flotation process, which produces glass with two smooth sides that do not require polishing. Such glass is used in automobiles and in architectural applications.
        Among its other holdings, the Pilkington company controls the Libbey-Owens-Ford Company, the second largest glass maker in the United States.
        Sir Alastair, who was a former chief executive of Pilkington, was apparently not related to the family that founded Pilkington P.L.C. His father was an engineer and small businessman who was interested in genealogy and began researching his family's history at about the same time in the late 1940's that Richard Pilkington of the glassmaking family was looking into his background.
        Although they could find no apparent connection, Sir Alastair's father told Richard Pilkington that his son was completing his education in engineering at Cambridge University and would soon be seeking a job.
        Indeed, the company was eager to hire engineers, but the Pilkington directors decided that a member of the family, "however remote," would have to be considered as a potential director. Facing this possible hurdle, the young man convinced the Pilkington company of his potential.
        He joined the company in 1947 after graduating from Cambridge and by 1953 was a member of the board. In the late 1950's, he pressed the company to continue investing in the float process, despite enormous technical difficulties.
        The process works by floating a piece of glass that has been rolled flat on a vat of molten metal in a furnace. The furnace is maintained at a high temperature so the glass is flexible. The bottom conforms to the smooth surface of the molten metal while flames melt the top so that it smooths itself like any liquid.
        The company patented the technology and licensed it to other glass producers around the world. Last year, the company accepted some restriction on those licenses in a settlement with the United States Department of Justice.
        Sir Alastair was born Lionel Alexander Bethune Pilkinton in Calcutta, India, where his father was employed at the time. He later chose Alastair as the name he wished to be known by.
        He enrolled in Cambridge University in 1938, majoring in mechanical engineering. His studies were interrupted by the outbreak of World War II, and he served as an artillery officer in Egypt, Greece and Crete. Captured by German troops in Crete, he was a prisoner for the remainder of the conflict.
        He returned to his studies in October 1945 after marrying Patricia Elliott, the daughter of a military officer he had met and become engaged to while in Egypt.
        When chief executive, he continued the Pilkington family's paternalistic traditions, helping to build housing for the elderly and assisting laid-off executives and workers to start their own businesses. He was knighted in 1973.
        He remained physically active into his 70's, sailing, skiing and even dabbling into hang gliding.
        Sir Alastair's first wife died in 1977. He is survived by his second wife, Kathleen, a son and a daughter from his first marriage and three stepchildren.
      