
        Mikhail M. Botvinnik, the dogged Russian grandmaster who reigned as world chess champion during most of the 1950's and then spent the next three decades passing on his scientific approach as a celebrated teacher, author and computer theorist, died on Friday at his home in Moscow. He was 83.
        The Russian Chess Federation, which announced the death, gave no cause.
        Long before he won the world championship, Mr. Botvinnik had become one of the first representatives of Soviet culture to gain recognition throughout the non-Communist world.
        In a game that sometimes seems dominated by unexplainable flashes of otherworldly genius, Mr. Botvinnik appeared to be an anomaly, the supreme rationalist who strove to impose on chess the same meticulous scientific grounding he used in his profession as an electrical engineer.
        Whatever the psychological combination, it worked. Mixed in with it were extraordinary resiliency and a deep understanding of his opponents' psychology. Mr. Botvinnik won the world championship for the first time in 1948, then lost it and regained it twice in the next 15 years.
        He went on to develop scientific methods of teaching his own techniques and instilled them in generations of top Russian players, among them the two current world champions, Gary Kasparov, who holds the the Professional Chess Association title, and Anatoly Karpov, the International Chess Federation champion.
        Mr. Botvinnik wrote many books on chess, a number of which have been translated and published abroad. He once advised chess players that publishing their analysis was a good way to improve their game because they were sure to learn of their errors from readers.
        Through the trenchant analysis and commentary in his books, Mr. Botvinnik captivated chess students of all levels and ages around the world. Perhaps his best known book in English is "Botvinnik: 100 Selected Games" (Dover).
        As a player, Mr. Botvinnik became legendary for his comebacks. Indeed, after his two rematch victories, he was denied a third attempt by a change of rules eliminating championship rematches.
        As a strategist, Mr. Botvinnik was known for his striking use of the two bishops, pieces that slash diagonally across the board and, as he deployed them, can exert power far beyond their normal value.
        Vasily Smyslov, a Botvinnik opponent in three world championship matches, hailed Mr. Botvinnik as both a great champion and a pioneer of Soviet chess through his school for promising players.
        "He was one of the greatest players ever and had tremendous influence on chess development," he said. "He created the scientific method of chess learning and taught it to young players from all parts of the Soviet Union."
        One of his pupils, Mr. Kasparov, has gone on to become the highest-rated player of all time. When Mr. Kasparov was 11, Mr. Botvinnik wrote, "In the hands of this young man lies the future of chess."
        Curiously, Mr. Karpov, whose style, many believe, resembles Mr. Botvinnik's, has suggested that Mr. Botvinnik never understood him and once questioned Mr. Karpov's underlying ability with the comment, "The boy doesn't have a clue about chess, and there's no future at all for him in this profession."
        Mr. Botvinnik, who was born near Leningrad on Aug. 17, 1911, may have found the scientific route the only one available to greatness. For all his own obvious gifts, he did not play until he was 12, an age when most future grandmasters have years of experience behind them.
        Taking up the game at such a relatively advanced stage of mental development, Mr. Botvinnik had to work out methodically for himself subtleties that brilliant younger novices seem to grasp intuitively.
        Mr. Botvinnik, to be sure, was as brilliant as they come. Two years after he first started playing he defeated the world champion of the time, Jose Raul Capablanca, in a group exhibition match, and in 1931, at 20, he became the Soviet champion.
        In 1948, in a novel tournament set up to fill the vacancy left by the death of the previous champion, Alexander Alekhin, during World War II, Mr. Botvinnik outpointed four other leading grandmasters to become the world champion
        Mr. Botvinnik's victory began an era of Soviet-Russian dominance in chess broken only by Bobby Fischer, from 1972 to 1975.
        Mr. Botvinnik, after defeating Mr. Smyslov in a title match in 1954, lost to him in 1957, then regained the title the next year. He was next beaten by Mikhail Tal in 1960, only to reclaim the title in 1961. He then reigned for two more years before losing to Tigran Petrosian.
        Highly disciplined, Mr. Botvinnik trained for major matches by walking several miles a day and practicing in a hot room with a radio playing loudly and a partner blowing smoke in his face.
        "Some experts say my principal strength is my zest, my aggressiveness," he once said. "I think it's my scientific training, the logic of a scientist's search for truth."
      