
        William H. Franklin, an accountant who joined Caterpillar Inc., the heavy-equipment giant, as a young executive and eventually became its chairman and chief executive, died in his sleep last Thursday at a nursing home in Peoria, Ill., his son Robert said. He was 86.
        Mr. Franklin joined Caterpillar, based in Peoria, in 1941 as assistant controller after becoming familiar with the company while working on its books for Price Waterhouse & Company. By the time he retired from operations in 1975, he had been Caterpillar's "financial brain for 30 years", said William Blackie, Mr. Franklin's mentor and predecessor as chairman.
        Mr. Franklin was also a far-sighted strategist. He warned as early as 1970 that the Japanese company Komatsu would emerge as the main challenger to Caterpillar's position as the world's largest manufacturer of construction and earth-moving equipment. That prediction came true in the 1980's, after he had retired, when the dollar became so strong in relation to the yen that Komatsu made huge inroads internationally and in the United States market.
        Fighting back, Caterpillar lost tens of millions of dollars. Thanks in part to earlier strong profits and heavy investments in new products and factories during the less-challenging times when Mr. Franklin led the company, Caterpillar went on to earn record profits in the 1990's.
        William Henry Franklin was born Jan. 30, 1909, in Chicago, the son of Edward Franklin, a coal mine operator, and Helen Willett Franklin. He joined Price Waterhouse, the accounting firm, after graduating from Princeton University in 1931.
        After moving to Caterpillar, Mr. Franklin climbed steadily through the company's management ranks, becoming executive vice president in 1962, president in 1966 and chairman and chief executive in 1972. After his three years at the helm, he remained on the board of directors for six more years.
        Mr. Franklin was a former chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, a trustee of Bradley University, in Peoria, and served on the boards of several trade organizations and companies, including the Exxon Corporation.
        In addition to his son Robert, he is survived by his wife, the former Mary Haas of El Paso; two daughters, Ann Elizabeth Franklin of Peoria and Mary Jo Franklin of Chicago; another son, William Henry Jr. of Ottawa, Ill.; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      