
        Philip Wichard, an antique automobile collector who developed his passion for cars as a 10-year-old junkyard scout who was allowed to steer junkers being towed for scrap, died on Tuesday at his home in Huntington Bay, L.I. He was 76.
        His family said the cause was cancer.
        Before his collection was sold at auction by Christie's last April, Mr. Wichard had gained a reputation as a shrewd and discriminating collector who got into the hobby early and added to his collection as the fortunes of his painting contracting business improved.
        "Once he bought a car and restored it, he never let it go," his son Alvin said yesterday, noting that his father, who maintained his business office in the same building where he kept his cars, visited his collection every day.
        "He liked to look at them," Alvin said. "He regarded them as works of art."
        By his own account, however, Mr. Wichard first viewed antique cars not as art but as potential scrap and the chance to get a free ride to the neighborhood junkyard. As he later told it, Mr. Wichard, the son of a Brooklyn house painter, made his first purchase at the age of 10 and turned a $5 profit on the spot.
        While accompanying his father on a job in Great Neck, L.I., the boy spotted a wrecked 1928 Lincoln with an all-aluminum body with a $20 for-sale sign. Knowing that the aluminum would be valuable as scrap, Mr. Wichard found a Brooklyn junk dealer willing to pay $25 for the car and offering the boy an even more appealing inducement: a promise that he could get behind the wheel and "steer" as it was being towed.
        "It gave him a big thrill," said his son, recalling that his father became a regular junkyard spotter after that.
        It was not until his business, Philson Painting Contractors, was up and running in the 1960's that Mr. Wichard developed a collector's sensitivity, one that favored restoring rather than scrapping old cars.
        It was a measure of his acumen that the 47 cars sold in April fetched more than $2 million. It was a reflection of his taste that the gem of the collection, which brought the top price of $365,000, was a 1929 Bentley 4.5-liter, dual cowl Phaeton, a rare original, said Robert Turnquist, a perennial president of the Classic Car Club.
        "It was one of the few legitimate ones," Mr. Turnquist said, noting that most of the 1929 Phaetons around were duplicates.
        In a hobby where prized items tend to be sold only at estate auctions and collectors claim to know the blood pressure of those who own the cars they covet, Mr. Wichard had a knack for ferreting out deals.
        Mr. Turnquist said Mr. Wichard was a discoverer of the famous Seven Santini Brothers storage warehouse in Manhattan, which became a legend among antique collectors when they learned that wealthy owners often stored, or rather abandoned, favorite old cars there.
        It was there, Mr. Turnquist said, that Mr. Wichard picked up one of his gems, a 1931 Chrysler that had been owned by Walter P. Chrysler. It sold for $167,500 in April.
        In addition to his son Alvin, Mr. Wichard is survived by his wife, Sonia, two other sons, Neal of San Diego, and Gary, the former C. W. Post quarterback who is now a sports agent in Malibu, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
      