
        Raymond J. O'Connor, who wielded power in Washington as head of the agency that oversees the natural gas and oil-pipeline industries but was stubbornly immune to Potomac Fever, died on Wednesday at his home in Douglaston, Queens. He was 63.
        The cause of death was a brain tumor, his family said.
        Mr. O'Connor was named chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission late in 1983 but returned home to Queens every weekend.
        "My priorities are very simple," he explained in a 1985 interview. "It's my family, my job, and then everything else I can fit in after those two."
        Acquaintances said, not in jest, that Mr. O'Connor did not bother to memorize his office telephone number and that he was familiar with only four Washington streets -- the ones he used between his office and his small apartment.
        Lobbyists and lawyers for the pipeline industry reportedly thought Mr. O'Connor an easygoing chairman for the first year. Then he made a speech that stunned industry representatives, declaring that his agency was doing a top-to-bottom reappraisal of pipeline-industry prices and practices.
        Mr. O'Connor promoted increased competition in the natural gas industry while maintaining price ceilings ordered by Congress on some categories of gas.
        Having planned to remain chairman until his term expired in October 1987, Mr. O'Connor instead resigned in January 1986, saying he was weary of the travel between Washington and New York.
        At the time of his death, Mr. O'Connor was a member of the New York State Public Service Commission. He also served on the Council for Excellence in Government and the Grace Commission, which studied ways to streamline the Federal Government.
        Mr. O'Connor was born in New York City and graduated from the University of Dayton in Ohio, He received a law degree from St. John's University and a master of law degree from New York University Law School.
        When President Ronald Reagan named him to the energy post, he was executive vice president at Prudential-Bache Securities. He previously worked for Citibank and Consolidated Edison.
        Surviving are his wife, Patricia; two sons, Raymond S., of Manhattan and Thomas, of Douglaston; two daughters, Patricia, of Glen Cove, L.I., and Maureen Mansfield of Floral Park, L.I.; two brothers, Thomas, of Massapequa, L.I., and John, of Bethesda, Md., and a sister, Eileen McLaughlin of Stone Harbor, N.J.
      