
        Walter A. Haas Jr., patriarch of the San Francisco family that controls Levi Strauss & Company, died at his home in San Francisco on Wednesday. He was 79.
        Mr. Haas died after a battle with prostate cancer, said Sean Fitzgerald, a Levi Strauss spokesman.
        While he spent the bulk of his career helping make the wholesaler of work clothing founded by his great-granduncle in 1850 into the world's largest brand-name garment manufacturer, Mr. Haas's interests and influence extended far beyond the world of blue jeans.
        As a philanthropist, Mr. Haas and his family donated millions of dollars to a wide array of cultural, educational and religious organizations.
        "Throughout the Bay area he was known as a generous giver to an incredibly wide array of programs," said William A. Hasler, dean of the Haas Schools of Business at the University of California in Berkeley.
        In memory of Walter A. Haas Sr., the Haas family gave more than $23 million for the schools of business. It was the largest gift in the university's history.
        In 1953, Mr. Haas and his wife established the Evelyn and Walter Haas Jr. Fund. The fund has supported the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the San Francisco Ballet and symphony and hundreds of programs to aid the young, the elderly, the homeless and other disadvantaged people in San Francisco and Alameda Counties.
        Mr. Haas, an avid sportsman, was persuaded in 1980 to buy the Oakland Athletics baseball team from the colorful and controversial Charles O. Finley. At the time, Mr. Haas had only a passing interest in baseball, a game he had once thought boring. Indeed, in an interview sometime after he paid $12.4 million for the then-struggling franchise, Mr. Haas admitted he had bought the team "chiefly to keep it here, as an aid to the community."
        But not only did his attitude about the game change, he also found it a sharp investment. Mr. Haas agreed to sell the team for $85 million last year to Steven Schott and Ken Hoffman, two Bay area businessmen, who will take control of the team on Nov. 1. The sale was contingent on the team's remaining in Oakland.
        Born on Jan. 24, 1916, in San Francisco, Mr. Haas was educated at the University of California at Berkeley and the Harvard Business School.
        In 1939, Mr. Haas went to work for the family company, starting out in a Levi Strauss factory.
        After four years in the Army Quartermaster Corps during World War II, he returned to Levi Strauss and held a number of positions before being named president and chief executive in 1958. He remained chief executive until 1976. In 1970 he was named chairman, a post he held until 1981. He remained honorary chairman after that.
        Mr. Haas served on a number of corporate boards, including those of United Airlines and Bank of America. He was also a trustee of the Ford Foundation, a director of the National Park Foundation and a member of the Trilateral Commission.
        Mr. Haas is survived by his wife, Evelyn Danzig Haas, whom he married in 1940; two sons, Robert D. Haas and Walter J. Haas, both of San Francisco; a daughter, Elizabeth Haas Eisenhardt of San Francisco, and six grandchildren.
      