
        Dr. Melvin N. A. Peterson, who led a deep-sea drilling program at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography that advanced understanding of the ocean floors and the slow waltz of the continents, died on Wednesday while on a fishing trip in Mexico. He was 66 and lived in Del Mar, Calif.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to the oceanography institution, part of the University of California at San Diego.
        Dr. Peterson, an expert on ocean sediments, was named chief scientist of the Deep Sea Drilling Project at Scripps in 1967 and its director in 1971. For more than 15 years the project's drilling ship, the Glomar Challenger, roamed the world's oceans for a consortium of oceanographic institutions, logging 375,632 nautical miles and removing 19,119 core samples from the sea floor.
        The drilling project provided strong support for the concept that the earth's surface is composed of about a dozen crustal plates, which slide around slowly atop partly molten rock. It demonstrated that the ocean basins are relatively young features of the earth, compared with the continents, and that the sea floor spreads out from a worldwide system of undersea mid-ocean ridges, where volcanic activity lays down new ocean floors.
        Dr. William A. Nierenberg, director emeritus of Scripps, said the project was the outstanding geophysical program of the century and that Dr. Peterson was the major contributor to its success.
        After retiring from the Scripps faculty in 1987, Dr. Peterson was named the first chief scientist of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration by President Ronald Reagan. He was a policy adviser on environmental issues and managed several of the agency's marine and atmospheric research programs.
        In 1989 he left to become director of the Ocean Policy Institute of the Pacific Forum in Honolulu. He held that position until earlier this year and recently returned to Scripps to write a history of the Deep Sea Drilling Project. At his death he was an associate professor emeritus.
        Melvin Norman Adolph Peterson was born in Evanston, Ill., on May 27, 1929. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees at Northwestern University and received a doctorate in geology from Harvard University in 1960. He joined the Scripps faculty the same year.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret; two sons, John and Bruce, both of San Diego, and two daughters, Katrina, of San Diego, and Valerie, of Richmond, Va.
      