
        Hugh Ferguson McKean, an artist, museum director and former president and chancellor of Rollins College who salvaged and collected many of the silken iridescent glass art works of Louis Comfort Tiffany, died at his home in Winter Park, Fla., on Saturday. He was 86.
        Mr. McKean died of cancer, said his brother, Keith F. McKean.
        In a career that spanned more than 60 years, Mr. McKean studied with Tiffany as a young artist, won awards for his work, founded an art museum and rose from art instructor to president, chancellor and trustee of Rollins. A private liberal arts college in Winter Park, Rollins saw its enrollment, curriculum, campus and endowments expand sharply from 1951 to 1969, during Mr. McKean's tenure as president.
        But Mr. McKean was perhaps best known as a conservator of the art created by Tiffany, the innovative designer who produced thousands of extraordinary pieces -- wisteria lamps, Favrile vases, delicate mosaics, stained-glass windows and other works with the distinctive opalescent glow of Tiffany glass -- between 1880 and 1930.
        After Tiffany's death in 1933, his work gradually fell into disfavor and lost its value. Even after World War II, it was still possible to walk into a thrift shop in Manhattan and pick up a rosy flaring jack-in-the-pulpit vase by Tiffany or one of his ruffled Favrile bowls, although those who displayed such pieces at home then ran the risk of being regarded as tasteless or unknowing.
        By 1953, Tiffany's sprawling mansion and four-acre estate, Laurelton Hall, at Oyster Bay, L.I., where many of his works had been preserved, was sold for $10,000. And in 1957, a fire destroyed much of the estate, but many of Tiffany's art works survived.
        After the fire, Mr. McKean, who had studied with Tiffany at Laurelton Hall in 1930, and his wife, Jeanette Morse Genius McKean, also an artist, were asked by a daughter of Tiffany to try to salvage some of the important pieces from the ruins. In his book, "The 'Lost' Treasures of Louis Comfort Tiffany," (Doubleday, 1980), Mr. McKean recalled rummaging through the ashes.
        "I shook something muddy leaning against a tree," he wrote. "It rattled. The head of the wrecking company waiting to clear the property was with us. I asked him what it was. 'That's one of the old man's windows,' he replied."
        The muddy thing turned out to be a section of the famous "Four Seasons" windows, made for the Paris Exposition of 1900, and it and hundreds of other pieces were salvaged and bought by Mr. McKean and his wife. They became the core of their collections for the Charles Hosmer Morse Museum of American Art, which they had founded in Winter Park in 1942.
        Since then, Tiffany glass has soared in popularity and value. Collectors vie for rarities, museums fill cases with Tiffany pieces, and some galleries profit handsomely from them. A Tiffany lamp was sold for a record $1.1 million at a recent Sotheby's auction.
        Two of the most beautiful features of Laurelton Hall -- a loggia, or columned arcade, that was the main entrance, and a stained-glass window depicting Oyster Bay under heavily hanging wisteria vines -- were among the items salvaged by Mr. McKean and his wife, who gave them to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1978. The pieces have become striking and familiar features of the American Wing.
        In recent years, M. McKean has supervised the building of a new $7 million Morse Museum complex in Winter Park. Twice the size of the original, the museum -- named for the industrialist-philanthropist grandfather of Mrs. McKean -- is scheduled to open on July 4 and will house many of the 4,000 works of art in Mr. McKean's collections, including hundreds of Tiffany originals.
        Hugh Ferguson McKean was born in Beaver Falls, Pa., on July 28, 1908. He grew up in College Hill, Pa., graduated from high school in Orlando, Fla., and received a bachelor's degree from Rollins College in 1930 and a master's degree from Williams College in 1940. He later received four honorary doctorate degrees.
        He studied at the Art Students League in New York and L'Ecole de Beaux-Arts Americaine in Paris and won a number of awards for his painting in the 1930's and 40's. He also became an art instructor at Rollins in 1932, beginning a career with the college that led eventually to the presidency.
        During Mr. McKean's 18-year presidency, the school's enrollment rose from 600 to nearly 1,000 (it now has more than 1,400 undergraduates), a dozen buildings were added to the campus, the curriculum was expanded, a new business school was founded and the endowment increased from $2 million to $8 million. He later served as chancellor and a trustee of Rollins.
        Mr. McKean's wife died in 1989. He is survived by two brothers, Keith, of Winter Park, and Vance, of Laguna Beach, Calif.; four nieces, and two nephews.
      