
        Henry P. Bowman, who flew missions over North Africa and Italy during World War II as one of the Tuskegee airmen and who broke racial barriers as a black sports official in the Big 10 in the postwar years, died last Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 74.
        Mr. Bowman had suffered for some time from heart disease and emphysema, said his son, Jon.
        Besides Mr. Bowman's achievements as a fighter pilot and sports official, which led to appearances in three films, he had a long career as a personnel executive. He retired in 1962 from the Air Force as a captain, and he held positions with the University of Illinois and the Hilton Corporation.
        Mr. Bowman's 21-year military career began in the spring of 1941, when family friends working as sleeping-car porters helped him "hitchhike" by train from Minneapolis-St. Paul, where he was attending Macalester College on a football scholarship, to Champaign, Ill., to fulfill his longtime yearning to fly. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps and was assigned to the segregated military complex in Tuskegee, Ala., for training as a fighter pilot.
        Mr. Bowman served with the 99th and 100th Fighter Squadrons, which became part of the famed 332d Fighting Group, flying P-40's and P-51's in North Africa and in Italy. The Tuskegee airmen provided cover for bombers on missions over widespread targets in Europe.
        His son said Mr. Bowman had picked up the nickname Jesse -- as in Jesse James -- in Italy for his role in an episode the Tuskegee airmen called the Great Train Robbery.
        The foray was of the type known in the military as a midnight requisition. Resentful that wing tanks, used to increase the range of fighter planes by holding extra fuel, were going to units of white airmen, the Tuskegee airmen decided to take matters into their own hands. Mr. Bowman and a comrade led a convoy of trucks and jeeps to hold up a supply train at gunpoint. With the Great Train Robbery, the shortage of tanks in their unit ended.
        After the war, Mr. Bowman was assigned to personnel duties.
        His career as a sports official began in San Antonio in the late 1950's, when he yelled at a referee at one of his son's ball games and the official said, "Hey, if you think you can do better, come to one of our meetings."
        While still in the service, Mr. Bowman was soon officiating at the local level. Then he began refereeing football games for the black colleges in the Southwestern Athletic Conference.
        When Mr. Bowman moved to Illinois in the early 1960's, he broke the color barrier for officials in the Big 10. For many years, he officiated at college football, basketball, baseball, tennis and swimming competitions.
        During that period, his work with the short-lived World Football League led to roles as a referee in the motion pictures "Two Minute Warning" (1976) "North Dallas Forty" (1979) and "Semi-Tough" (1977).
        After retiring from the Air Force, Mr. Bowman worked in personnel for eight years for the University of Illinois and then went to work for Hilton, moving with the corporation to Los Angeles in 1974 and retiring in 1988 as a director in the human resources division.
        In the late 1980's, Mr. Bowman served two one-year terms as the president of the Tuskegee Airmen, an association founded in 1972. He organized scholarship campaigns to help young people study aerospace, aeronautics and science.
        Besides his son, Jon, of Denver, Mr. Bowman is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Caroline McWatt; two daughters, Judy Bowman, of Los Angeles, and Joye Bowman, of Amherst, Mass.; a brother, Earl Wesley Bowman Jr., of Minneapolis; two sisters, Harriet Solomon, also of Minneapolis, and Alice Harness, of Salinas, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      