
        Samuel A. Guttman, a physician and Freudian analyst who taught and published and was a leader in national and international psychoanalytic organizations, died on Sept. 18 in a nursing home near his home in Pennington, N.J. He was 81.
        The cause was complications of cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Guttman continued his clinical practice until he became ill about a year ago. About five years ago he retired as a professor of psychiatry at Thomas Jefferson University Medical School in Philadelphia.
        The author of dozens of articles in academic journals, he was also the major editor and driving force behind "The Concordance to the Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud" (G. K. Hall and Company, 1980) and a companion concordance to Freud's works in German, "Gesammelte Werke" (Norton Waterloo Press, 1995). He served on the Psychoanalytic Quarterly's board and was the literary executor for Robert Waelder, an early student of Freud and a pioneer in psychoanalysis.
        Dr. Guttman was a founder and for many years the executive director of the Center for Advanced Psychoanalytic Studies in Princeton, N.J., and the creator and longtime president of the Psychoanalytic Studies at Aspen, Colo. Each study group drew analysts twice a year to explore theoretical and clinical issues.
        His work in professional societies included serving as the program committee chairman of the American Psychoanalytic Association from 1962 to 1967 and as co-chairman of the program committee of the International Psychoanalytic Association from 1969 to 1973.
        Dr. Guttman was born in New York and educated at Cornell University, where he earned a bachelor's degree, master's degree in neurophysiology and anatomy, a doctorate in neurophysiology, biochemistry and anatomy and a medical degree. Early in his career he was the chief resident neurologist at the Neurological Institute of New York. During World War II, he served with the Office of Strategic Services, studying the mental effects of marijuana and other drugs.
        Most of his work was in Philadelphia, where he taught psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School, was an attending physician at Jefferson Hospital and served as president of the Philadelphia Association for Psychoanalysis. He was also the chief of psychiatry at Wilkes-Barre General Hospital.
        His survivors include his wife of 17 years, Irene Kagan Guttman; his children by a prior marriage, Elizabeth Guttman Sevin of Philadelphia and Samuel A. Guttman of Bethlehem, Pa., and five grandchildren.
      