
        On his resume, Leon M. Goldstein, the president of Kingsborough Community College and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's favorite to be chancellor of the New York City schools, says he did "graduate work toward a Ph.D." at New York University in 1965.
        Yesterday, however, the university said it had no record that he was ever enrolled in a Ph.D. program at the school.
        Instead, a university spokesman, Virgil Renzulli, said Mr. Goldstein completed just one graduate-level education course at N.Y.U. -- credits that might have been applied toward a doctorate, if he had ever entered the Ph.D. program.
        "If a person is in a Ph.D. program, that's normally part of the record," Mr. Renzulli said. "In this case, there was no such indication."
        Mr. Goldstein did not return several telephone calls to his office and home yesterday seeking comment. Asked in an interview last week if he prefers to be called Mr. Goldstein or Dr. Goldstein, he answered definitively: "President Goldstein."
        Nonetheless, across Kingsborough's Brooklyn campus for a decade or longer, many students, professors and administrators have called him Dr. Goldstein, an appellation that he has not sought to correct, even after it has appeared in numerous newspaper articles and academic journals.
        In 1991, Mr. Goldstein distributed around the campus, and to the student newspaper, copies of an article in a publication entitled "Black Issues in Higher Education" that prominently refers to him as "Dr. Leon M. Goldstein."
        "It was a joke among some members of the faculty," said Dr. Bernard Eisenberg, a retired professor of mathematics and computer science who worked at Kingsborough for 22 years. "At some affairs, his administrators would introduce him as Dr. Goldstein. It raised questions among the people who knew. Maybe it makes him feel better."
        "I do remember some people suggesting that he had a doctorate," said Scott Cantone, a student at Kingsborough from 1985 to 1987 who was editor in chief of the student newspaper. "And there were just as many people pointing out that he did not have one."
        Mr. Goldstein, the president of Kingsborough since 1971, has made several misstatements in recent days since emerging as the Mayor's latest choice to lead the nation's largest school system. In interviews with reporters last week, Mr. Goldstein gave confusing or incorrect answers about his age, his marital status and his health problems. In subsequent interviews, he clarified all three.
        Mr. Goldstein first told a reporter he is 60, when actually he is 63. He gave his date of birth as July 17, 1935, though he was born in 1932, according to the State Department of Motor Vehicles. Two days later, he acknowledged that he is, in fact, 63. "I don't know what happened there," he said, adding that one explanation is that he has two conflicting "birth records."
        Mr. Goldstein first said he was married to his wife, Mary, for 32 years. Actually, he has been married to two women over that period, each for 16 years. Two days later, he acknowledged that he was divorced from his first wife, Rita, in 1979, before marrying Mary Rothlein, the vice president for public affairs at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, that same year.
        "I said I was married for 32 years," Mr. Goldstein said. "I didn't say I was married to Mary for 32 years."
        Mr. Goldstein first said he had a heart attack in 1991 and had to undergo triple-bypass surgery. Asked if he had suffered from heart trouble before then, he said he had not. Two days later, he acknowledged that he had been hospitalized in 1976 for a heart problem that did not require surgery.
        Mr. Goldstein is the only president of a City University of New York college who does not hold a doctorate degree, a CUNY spokesman said. That fact, several professors said in interviews, bothered him.
        Mr. Goldstein is also the only one of the three schools chancellor finalists who does not have a Ph.D. The other candidates are Robert R. Spillane, the Superintendent of Schools in Fairfax County, Va., whose 140,000 students make it the nation's 11th largest district, and Daniel A. Domenech, the Superintendent for western Suffolk County on Long Island, a smaller suburban district with 74,000 students.
        Mr. Goldstein has been criticized for being more of a political operator than an educator with vision. He has given jobs to the wives of two former Assembly Speakers, Elizabeth Miller and Judy Fink. Others have said Kingsborough is a "patronage center" for the Brooklyn Democratic Party.
        The assertion about working toward a Ph.D appears on just one line of his eight-page curriculum vitae, under the heading: Education, College or University. The first entry is: "New York University. 1965. Graduate work towards Ph.D."
        The resume also lists a master of arts degree from Brooklyn College in 1965, a bachelor of arts degree from the City University of New York in 1962 and an "associate in applied science" from New York City Community College in 1958.
        Despite his insistence in the interview last week that he be addressed as "President Goldstein," Mr. Goldstein is called "Doctor" by many people, both on campus and off. In an interview last week, as an example, Howard Golden, the Brooklyn Borough President, said, "Dr. Goldstein is a good friend."
        Mr. Renzulli, the N.Y.U. spokesman, said he could not disclose the title of the two-semester course that Mr. Goldstein took at the university -- in 1966 and 1967, not 1965 as indicated on Mr. Goldstein's resume.
        "It is a course that would count on the Ph.D. level -- for someone enrolled in the Ph.D. program," he said.
      