
        John L. Bates, who fled Russia as the son of a top Czarist guard, returned in World War II as a United States military attache and interpreted for President Roosevelt in his momentous talks with Stalin at Teheran and Yalta, died on Sept. 20 at his home in Fort Belvoir, Va. He was 85.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Twenty-three years after escaping Russia as a youngster, Mr. Bates was a United States Army major who found himself shaking hands with Stalin and introducing him to Roosevelt in a top-secret meeting at a crucial juncture in the war. The occasion was the Teheran Conference, a 1943 summit meeting of Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin.
        Despite the gravity of the event, its opening scene was a bit disorganized, Mr. Bates recalled.
        "Possibly in error, I was the only interpreter present," he said. "I soon found myself the recipient of the Soviet Premier's hand and began introducing him to the small group rushing to see him." Moments later, Mr. Bates translated President Roosevelt's simple, upbeat greeting: "At last!"
        Two years later, Mr. Bates, by then promoted to colonel, was an interpreter at Yalta and Potsdam, where the Allies planned for the division of Germany and other boundary changes, war crimes trials, the United Nations, reparations and other issues.
        During and after the war, he served as Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower's Russian interpreter. He also assisted Averell Harriman, the United States Ambassador to the Soviet Union, and Gen. Lucius Clay as he organized the Supreme Headquarters of All Expeditionary Forces, a precursor to NATO.
        His life outlasted the Soviet empire's rise and fall. He savored what he called the "the ironies of history" in his shifting role as a Russian native, refugee, ally, cold war foe and, in 1990, visitor invited home in an era of democracy and reconciliation.
        He returned then to help re-establish the Russian version of the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, which his father founded in 1909 but which the Communists banished for 70 years.
        Mr. Bates was born in St. Petersburg as Oleg O. Pantuhov. His father, a colonel in the Russian Imperial Guard, was in charge of the last defenders of the Kremlin against the Bolsheviks. He fled to Turkey in 1920 with his wife and two sons. They went to America in 1922.
        Mr. Bates, who was 10 when he left his homeland, grew up in New York City. He joined the Army, where his fluency in Russian soon drew overseas posts, and in 1943 he spent six weeks in Russia in the Lend-Lease program.
        The Army awarded Mr. Bates the Legion of Merit for his efforts. After retiring in 1959, he privately published a four-volume memoir entitled "Journey Through Two Worlds" and was active in Russian-American groups.
        His first wife, Natalie Ragosine, died in 1957. His survivors are his wife of 33 years, Hester; three daughters by his first marriage, Lee Olshan of Fairfax, Va., Nina Bates of Berwyn, Pa., and Mimi Pantuhova of Newton, Mass.; three stepsons, Russell Fries of Alexandria, Va., William Fries of Frederick, Md., and Barry Fries of Boise, Idaho; eight grandchildren and a great grandson.
      