
        Marshall Erdman, a builder whose first big project was a Frank Lloyd Wright church without a steeple, and who became a major producer of prefabricated structures, died on Sunday in a hospital in Madison, Wis., his hometown. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Although the construction of Wright's First Unitarian Society Meeting House in Madison in 1951 left Mr. Erdman broke -- he borrowed against his life insurance to finish the job -- it brought professional fame. He also built several Wright-designed houses.
        "Wright opened a lot of doors," he once recalled. "Everything I have, I owe to him."
        Eventually, his company, Marshall Erdman & Associates, built 500 houses, nearly 2,500 doctors' office buildings, and dozens of schools and other projects in the Midwest and elsewhere. The company has 800 workers and grosses $175 million a year.
        Mr. Erdman was a proponent of prefabrication, with factory-made sections assembled on site. In 1953, he produced U-Form-It, a do-it-yourself kit with precut lumber for a three-bedroom house costing $9,000, a labor savings of $5,000.
        In 1956, on a site next to the Unitarian church, he built his first complex of medical offices, Doctors Park. Its features included special plumbing and blood-resistant carpet. His latest project, a five-story branch of the Mayo Clinic, opened in July in Eau Claire, Wis.
        He also built 17 schools and remodeled or expanded 24 others. Frustrated with furniture suppliers, he began manufacturing his own under the Techline label.
        Ground was broken last month on what Mr. Erdman called his swan song, a European-style, pedestrian-oriented community, with a small-town atmosphere, in Middleton, Wis.
        Mr. Erdman was an ardent art collector. For a fee, his staff provided art to office buildings. But clients were not allowed to pick the art under a policy that reflected his strong-minded personality. The only concession, said Alice D'Alessio, a company spokeswoman, was, "If they lived with it for a year and didn't like it, they could get their money back."
        Mr. Erdman, who rarely discussed his early life, was born in Lithuania. After immigrating to the United States as a teen-ager, Mr. Erdman studied architecture at the University of Illinois.
        In the Army, he served as an engineer, helping build the Remagen pontoon bridge that enabled Gen. George Patton's tanks cross the Rhine into Germany.
        Mr. Erdman was married 46 years to Joyce Mickey, who became president of the University of Wisconsin Board of Regents. She died in 1992.
        His survivors are his wife, Dorothy Horner Ballantyne; three sons, Timothy B., of Madison, president of the Erdman company, M. Rustin, of Miami Beach, and Daniel W., of Madison; a daughter, Deborah Erdman-Luder of Livingston, Mont., and three grandchildren.
      