
        David B. H. Martin, a lawyer and sometime government official whose inveterate legal tinkerings have been credited with the creation of the Cape Cod National Seashore, government-backed student loans and other innovative Federal, state and municipal programs, died on Wednesday at his home in Cummaquid, Mass., on Cape Cod. He was 69.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son, David Jr.
        Whether in or out of government, Mr. Martin pursued a legal career that seemed to owe more to Edison than to Blackstone.
        His specialty, he liked to say, was "social inventions," and he managed to create them at almost every stage of a long and varied career.
        Among other things, Mr. Martin was, in succession, a labor law specialist in  Boston; a legislative assistant to Senator Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts; an official in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare; Yale University's liaison to government agencies; a member of the Hamden, Conn., Town Council; first executive director of the Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency; an H.E.W. official again; research director of the United States Administrative Conference; a consultant to the National Endowment for the Arts;  founder of the Committee for Responsive Governance; legislative counsel to Representative Lawrence J. DeNardis, Republican of Connecticut, and, since 1982, gadfly and municipal official on Cape Cod.
        Along the way, Mr. Martin helped create Medicare and Medicaid, during his first H.E.W. stint, and Connecticut's first municipal mental health agency, as a Hamden Councilman. He also helped revise the Barnstable County Charter, which  strengthened the county government with jurisdiction over Cape Cod in 1988.
        A native of Danbury, Conn., who grew up in New York City and on Long Island,  David Britton Hadden Martin was the son of John Martin, Time magazine's first managing editor and a cousin of the magazine's co-founder, Britton Hadden, a Yale classmate of Henry Luce.
        A precocious student, Mr. Martin entered Yale at 16, served in the Navy after graduation, received his law degree from Harvard and spent a decade in private practice in Boston.
        For all his later government innovations, Mr. Martin created his first social invention while in private practice. During commuting trips between Boston and his home on the Massachusetts north shore on the Boston & Maine Railroad, he conceived the idea of government-backed, low-interest loans to college students.
        Through a friendship with a fellow commuter, a young lawyer who was elected to the Massachusetts legislature, Mr. Martin brought his plan to the attention of Gov. Christian A. Herter, who helped translate it into law in 1957. The program is considered the model for later state and Federal loan programs.
        What Mr. Martin regarded as his greatest achievement came while he was on Senator Saltonstall's staff in the late 1950's. Working closely with Fred Holborn, his counterpart on Sen. John F. Kennedy's staff, Mr. Martin conceived the idea and created the mechanism that allowed the preservation of Cape Cod's natural seashore while allowing private citizens to maintain their property within the protected area.
        Like the student loan program, the Cape Cod National Seashore Act, which was  enacted in 1961, is regarded as the model for similar projects elsewhere.
        Mr. Martin, whose preference for casual clothes and a battered, overstuffed briefcase belied the precision of his legal work and his eye for detail, became  a familiar figure on Cape Cod after he moved there in 1982.
        Taking a proprietary interest in an area he had helped protect from runaway development, he saw the need to create a strong unified county government. This  was a tall order in a state where municipal power has traditionally resided in towns and townships and where counties have been little more than lines on a map.
        Mr. Martin laid the groundwork for his success in the early 1980's by coming  up with research that he said established that Barnstable County had been created in 1685 and would be 300 years old in 1985. The resulting capewide tercentenary celebrations helped create a spirit of county unity, which made the strong-county idea politically popular.
        Not all of his ideas caught on. For a while he was involved with a preservationist group that wanted to ban tourists from Cape Cod beaches.
        In addition to his son, of Alexandria, Va., Mr. Martin, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by his companion, Caroline Rand Herron of Brooklyn and Truro, Mass.; a daughter, Susan B. Martin of New Boston, N.H.; three sisters, Barry Osborn of Locust Valley, L.I., Susan Ely of Bernardsville, N.J.,  and Jill Ives of Brooklyn, and three grandchildren.
      