
        Leo J. Damore, who uncovered previously unreported information for his 1988 book, "Senatorial Privilege: The Chappaquiddick Coverup," took his life on Monday at his home in Essex, Conn. He was 66.
        The police said that Mr. Damore fatally shot himself. His former wife, June Davison, said Mr. Damore had been despondent over their divorce last December.
        Mr. Damore, a native of Ontario who moved with his family to North Tonawanda, N.Y., and graduated from Kent State University in Ohio, was working for a weekly newspaper, The Cape Cod News, in July 1969 when Senator Edward M. Kennedy's Oldsmobile plunged off a bridge on Chappaquiddick Island, killing Mary Jo Kopechne, a 28-year-old Senate aide who had been attending a party with the Senator and other staff members nearby.
        The incident, which is widely believed to have ended any possibility that Senator Kennedy might be elected president, has been repeatedly investigated by  the national press.
        Mr. Damore, who knew many of the local law enforcement officials, managed to  persuade several figures to give extensive interviews for the first time. For Mr. Damore, who had a reputation as a dogged, thorough investigator, obtaining the interviews was easier than having the book published.
        Random House, which gave him a $150,000 advance in 1982, rejected his manuscript in 1987, describing it as libelous and demanding the return of the advance.
        Mr. Damore, arguing that the book was sound and that the publisher was bowing to the Kennedy family, went to court. After a judge ruled against him, he reached a settlement with Random House and sought another publisher. Regnery Gateway, a small, conservative house, brought the book out the next year, and although it received few reviews, it immediately became a big seller.
        Mr. Damore's other works include "The Cape Cod Years of John Fitzgerald Kennedy," published in 1967. At his death, Ms. Davison said, he was almost finished with another Kennedy book, about the President's affair with Mary Pinchot Meyer.
        Mr. Damore is survived by his mother, Carmen, and a sister, Gloria of North Tonawanda; a son, Nicholas of Old Saybrook, Conn.; and two children from an earlier marriage, Charles of Niantic, Conn., and Leslie Hegarty of North Carolina.
      