
        Stanley N. Shure, a leader in the audio electronics industry for much of the 20th century, died on Tuesday in Chicago.
        Mr. Shure, who lived in Chicago, was 93.
        Mr. Shure's company, the privately held Shure Brothers Inc., is the world's largest manufacturer of microphones. In the days before audio cassettes and compact disks, the company's phonograph cartridges were a staple. Virtually every leading phonograph maker, including RCA, Emerson, Magnavox and Motorola, turned to Shure Brothers for cartridges.
        Born in Chicago, Mr. Shure received a bachelor's degree in geography from the University of Chicago.
        An amateur radio hobbyist who as a young man worked in a radio factory, Mr. Shure began building his company in 1925, initially as a small wholesale parts supplier for builders of home radio sets.
        The company, renamed Shure Brothers Inc. in 1928, moved into the production of microphones in 1932.  Shure introduced the first modern noise-canceling microphone in 1937. Two years later, Shure invented the Unidyne, the world's first single-element directional microphone, which remains one of the most widely used microphone types in the world.
        During World War II, Shure was a major microphone supplier to the armed services. The company received three Army-Navy "E" awards for excellence in service to the Government during the war.
        An avid photographer with a strong interest in linguistics and foreign languages, Mr. Shure was also an internationally known philatelist.He was a fellow in the Royal Philatelic Society, the Chicago Philatelic Society and the New York Collectors Club. A portion of his extensive stamp collection was donated to the Smithsonian Institution.
        Mr. Shure is survived by his wife, Rose Shure; a son, Robert, and a daughter, Myrna Shure.
        Correction:  October 28, 1995, Saturday
        An obituary last Saturday about the founder of Shure Brothers Inc., who was a leader in the audio electronics industry, misstated his first name. He was Sidney N. Shure, not Stanley.
      