
        Dr. Friedrich S. Brodnitz, who treated the raspy rich and famous as well as ordinary people with voice and throat problems, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 96, and until three years ago had maintained a practice across the street from Carnegie Hall.
        As an otolaryngologist, or ear, nose and throat specialist, Dr. Brodnitz was primarily a larynx man. He devoted his life to problems of the vocal cords, especially if they interfered with the livelihood of opera singers, actors or other professional voice users (P.V.U.'s), the trendy modern term for those from telephone solicitors to train conductors who use their voice in their work.
        For more than half a century, Dr. Brodnitz, a longtime chief of the voice and speech clinic at Mount Sinai Medical Center, was the man to see if a soprano's vibrato began to sputter or a baritone's golden tones suddenly turned brown.
        Whether it was a muscle strain in the larynx, polyps on the vocal cords or merely a wobble in the upper register, he would be ready with a remedy, sometimes right there in the front row at the Metropolitan Opera House.
        Indeed, his wife, Henny, said yesterday, for 30 years "Leontyne Price wouldn't go on unless he was in the audience."
        In addition to Miss Price, the soprano Lotte Lehmann and the baritone Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau, the celebrity patients he treated over the years included Arthur Godfrey, Kate Nelligan, Kaye Ballard and a disparate pair of politicians, Abraham D. Beame and Nelson A. Rockefeller.
        Dr. Brodnitz, who was born in Berlin, received a classical education, including nine years of Latin and six of Greek, before studying at the universities of Berlin and Freiburg.
        When he arrived in the United States in 1937, he was something of a novelty among ear, nose and throat specialists, having been trained in both otolaryngology and phoniatry, or speech therapy.
        The dual specialty gave him an advantage in dealing with singers and others whose voice problems often stem not from allergies, infections and the like but from improper vocal techniques.
        Dr. Brodnitz, who prescribed exercise regimens as well as medication, was a pioneer in the so-called chewing method, exercises designed to strengthen and realign the throat muscles to produce less strain on and better control of the vocal cords.
        Recognized as an authority by his colleagues, he also established his credentials with the public. His 1953 book for laymen, "Keep Your Voice Healthy: A Guide to the Intelligent Use and Care of the Speaking and Singing Voice," is regarded as a standard.
        The book, which among other things warns about the dangers of smoking and cautions against straining to be heard over the din of a noisy restaurant, is still in print, in an updated edition published by Singular Press.
        His wife is his only immediate survivor.
      