
        David D. Connell, the original executive producer of "Sesame Street" and "The Electric Company," died on Friday at his home in River Edge, N.J. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, said a spokeswoman for the Children's Television Workshop, which he joined in 1968 to help create "Sesame Street."
        The educational programs Mr. Connell led showed that learning can be entertaining. In his world, lessons were delivered with sharp lyrics, appealing music and repartee. And the teacher was likely to be an 8-foot-tall yellow bird.
        For the first three years of "Sesame Street," Mr. Connell took aim at preschoolers with a curriculum based on consultation with educators and psychologists.
        With "The Electric Company," which he helped originate in 1971 as its executive producer, he spoke to "Sesame Street" graduates and concentrated on the reading problems that second and third graders often encounter. In 1987, he created the show "Square One TV" and used the cover of entertainment to teach math to skeptical youngsters.
        Mr. Connell moved to New York in the mid-1950's, just as production work was moving to the West Coast and the golden era of live television was drawing to a close. He took a job on "Captain Kangaroo." He left 12 years later as its executive producer.
        He was later recruited by the Children's Television Workshop to become executive producer of a show being conceived that would blend educational techniques with quality entertainment. He controlled the finances, directed personnel and participated in the creative development of "Sesame Street" until he took on "The Electric Company."
        That same year, he also became vice president of production for the Children's Television Workshop. He won five Emmy Awards and garnered an additional 20 nominations. He also served as executive producer of the Emmy Award-winning special "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe," which was broadcast on CBS in 1979.
        From 1973 to 1981, he served as a visiting member of the faculty of the Harvard Graduate School of Education. He was born in Cleveland, and received undergraduate and graduate degrees in television from the University of Michigan.
        He is survived by two sons, David Jr., of Hamilton, N.J., and Alan, of Standish, Me.; a daughter, Janice Connell Henkel of Warwick, N.Y.; a brother, James, of Naples, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      