
        Sir Kingsley Amis, the prolific British novelist, poet and critic, died yesterday at St. Pancras Hospital in London. He was 73 and lived in London.
        The Associated Press reported that he had been admitted to a hospital last month after crushing several vertebrae in a fall.
        A moral satirist who has been compared with Pope and Swift, Mr. Amis was knighted in 1990. His best-known book, especially in the United States, remained his first novel, "Lucky Jim" (Viking Penguin), a 1954 satire of academic life. It brought its author fame as one of Britain's Angry Young Men of that era, a group whose university-educated members protested the British class system while, it has been said, rising socially themselves.
        In 1994, the editor and biographer Terry Teachout, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called the book "one of the four or five funniest comic novels written in this century." It described its author as "a better-than-average poet, a superbly blunt literary critic, a virtuoso anthologist" and the author of a 1991 memoir "that contrived to offend more people than the letters of Evelyn Waugh and Philip Larkin put together."
        Mr. Amis remained known as a writer of satiric comedy but produced a variety of work over the years, including more than a score of novels, which have been called "increasingly grumpy." He also produced half a dozen books of verse.
        He was born in south London, the only son of a clerk and a perceptive mother who encouraged him to write as a youngster. As a young man at Oxford, he was an outspoken radical. But as the historian Paul Fussell wrote in his book-length critical study, "The Anti-Egotist: Kingsley Amis, Man of Letters" (Oxford University Press, 1994), Mr. Amis developed some reactionary tendencies with time, and "friends were appalled to be confronted now with what appeared as literal-minded dogmatism and zeal." He was also said to have a distaste for feminism, although he denied it.
        Eric Jacobs wrote in "Kingsley Amis: A Biography," published this year, that the Amis of the later years -- "clubman, curmudgeon, anti-trendy, Tory, misogynist, blimp" -- was essentially a pose.
        Be that as it may, Mr. Amis became, and remained to the end of his life, something of an institution in Britain. Mr. Fussell argued that Mr. Amis, a friend of his, was among the "best living practitioners" of moral satire and belonged in "the company of Swift, Pope, Mark Twain, Flaubert and H. L. Mencken."
        In Mr. Fussell's opinion, Mr. Amis's views on nonfiction views significantly colored his fiction. "In Amis, as in George Orwell," the professor wrote, "the essay sometimes intervenes and rather upsets the novel" -- so much so that some of Mr. Amis's novels "resemble not so much fictions as anthologies of opinions, with the fiction serving as mere carriage or cement."
        For his part, Mr. Amis once emphasized that "novels aren't supposed to be fair," adding, "What I really wanted to do was write about human relations in society, but in a reasonably straightforward style."
        Still, his opinions could be pungent, even outrageous. "Twentieth-century music is like pedophilia," he once wrote. "No matter how persuasively and persistently its champions urge their cause, it will never be accepted by the public at large, who will continue to regard it with incomprehension, outrage and repugnance."
        The main character of "Lucky Jim" was a lecturer of lower-middle-class origins at a provincial British university, as Mr. Amis himself was in those days. Having served in the British Army's Royal Corps of Signals from 1942 to 1945, he joined the faculty of Swansea University in South Wales in 1949. After a decade there, interrupted by a year at Princeton, he became a fellow at Peterhouse College of Cambridge University from 1961 to 1963, when he moved to London. His novels continued to abound with minor academics, as well as writers, businessmen and other middle-class types.
        Toward the end of his life, he won some praise for comic writing. His book "The Russian Girl" (Viking, 1994) -- a comic novel about a married London scholar's unwise affair with a Russian emigre poet, won one critic's praise as "brilliant, mordant and quite funny."
        The New York Times critic Michiko Kakutani called "The Russian Girl" "a wild, funny, wholly diverting romp of a book" whose hero is "a feckless sort of fellow, self-absorbed, self-deluded, out for the main chance" like "so many Amis heros -- from Jim Dixon in 'Lucky Jim' to Patrick Standish in 'Difficulties With Girls,' " another late Amis novel.
        But The Daily Mail described Mr. Amis's 1995 novel, "The Biographer's Moustache," as "banal, boring and extremely silly" -- "packed with stereotypical caricatures, convoluted dialogue, ludicrously dated class attitudes and the sort of puerile snobbishness that exists only among the dyspeptic old bores who hang out at Dickensian gentlemen's clubs."
        As an autobiographer, Mr. Amis was opinionated and in a way discreet. Of his 1991 "Memoirs," Ian Hamilton wrote in The Sunday Telegraph: "He was not so fastidious when it came to unveiling the secrets of his friends -- but those secrets were small secrets, he would say, and anyway most of his friends were dead. The result was a book so guarded as to seem, in the end, merely self-satisfied. Other people were usually ghastly; Kingsley on the whole was not too bad -- this was the general message."
        Poetry was important to Mr. Amis. He once reported that "the most enjoyable job" he ever had was compiling "The Pleasure of Poetry," a 1990 anthology that drew on a column he wrote for The Daily Mirror, the British mass-circulation newspaper. And he was associated with Donald Davie and Larkin in the so-called Movement in postwar British poetry.
        Among the honors Mr. Amis received was Britain's prestigious Booker Prize, for his 1986 novel "The Old Devils."
        "Lucky Jim" and the books "That Uncertain Feeling" and "Take a Girl Like You" were made into movies.
        His 1948 marriage to Hilary Anne Bardwell ended in divorce in 1965. His 18-year marriage to Elizabeth Jane Howard, a novelist, ended in divorce in 1983. In recent years he lived in a London house with his first wife and her third husband.
        His survivors include two sons, Martin, the novelist, and Philip, and a daughter, Sally.
      