
        Shannon Hoon, lead singer of the rock group Blind Melon, died on Saturday in the band's bus in a parking lot in New Orleans. He was 28 and lived in Lafayette, Ind.
        The cause was apparently an accidental drug overdose, said Chris Jones, the band's manager. An autopsy was performed yesterday morning, but the results were incomplete.
        Blind Melon achieved rapid success with its self-titled first album in 1992, which sold more than two million copies. The album mixed Woodstock-era music with the introspection of alternative rock. Mr. Hoon's high-pitched wailing and moaning soared above it all, bringing comparisons to Janis Joplin. The video of "No Rain," a song from the album, was so popular that its images of a cavorting girl dressed in a bee costume threatened to eclipse the band. Heather DeLoach, known as "the bee girl," gave almost as many interviews as the band did in 1993.
        The band was touring in support of its second album, "Soup," and was to give a concert at the club Tipitina when the group's sound engineer found Mr. Hoon dead. The band had last performed in Houston and had scheduled two concerts at Irving Plaza in Manhattan next month that had already sold out.
        Mr. Hoon, who dropped his first name, Richard, was born in Lafayette, where he turned from sports to music while in high school. He formed Blind Melon with Roger Stevens, a guitarist, and Brad Smith, a bassist, in Los Angeles in 1990, and they were soon signed by Capitol Records. Mr. Hoon was a childhood friend of Axl Rose of the heavy-metal band Guns 'n' Roses and sang back-up vocals on that group's two "Use Your Illusion" albums.
        In high school, Mr. Hoon developed a reputation for misbehavior. His mother, Vernell, has said that at one point she was carrying four bail bonds for him. As an adult, he was charged with stripping and urinating onstage at the Pacific Coliseum in Vancouver, B.C., in 1993; disturbing the peace and assaulting a security guard and a police officer after Blind Melon lost the award for best new artist to the Stone Temple Pilots at the American Music Awards in 1994, and being drunk and disorderly in New Orleans while the band was recording "Soup."
        Recently Mr. Hoon moved back to Lafayette with his girlfriend of 10 years, Lisa Crouse, and a daughter, Nico Blue, was born to them this summer.
        In addition to his mother, daughter and Ms. Crouse, Mr. Hoon is survived by his father, Richard, of Mulberry, Ind.; a sister, Anna, of Lafayette, and a brother, Tim.
      