
        Emil Jonassaint, the jurist who served last year as the puppet President of the military junta that overthrew President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, died on Tuesday at his home in Port-au-Prince. He was 82.
        Officials said Mr. Jonassaint died of natural causes. Several high-ranking military officers associated with the military junta have been killed recently in suspicious circumstances.
        A former Supreme Court justice, Mr. Jonassaint was appointed President on May 11, 1994, by a rump Parliament to fill the vacuum left by the ouster of Mr.  Aristide in a coup on Sept. 30, 1991.
        But four months later he and Jimmy Carter signed an agreement that led to the departure of the military junta dominated by Gen. Raoul Cedras and to the return of Mr. Aristide.
        Initially, the United States had shunned all contact with Mr. Jonassaint, describing him as nothing more than the nominal head of an illegal Government recognized by no other nation. But in a last-ditch effort to avoid an American invasion, Mr. Jonassaint was allowed to join other Haitian officials in two days of increasingly tense negotiations in Port-au-Prince with an unofficial American delegation headed by the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Colin L. Powell; Senator Sam Nunn, Democrat of Georgia, and Mr. Carter, the former President.
        The resulting agreement, signed on Sept. 18, 1994, with American troops already in the air on their way to Haiti, called for General Cedras and other military leaders to give up power and allow Mr. Aristide's return to office in exchange for a lifting of economic sanctions and passage of an amnesty. One day  later, 20,000 American troops began landing in Haiti, meeting no resistance and  incurring no casualties.
        Mr. Jonassaint's brief tenure was marked by widespread violations of human rights, the suspension of basic constitutional guarantees and frequent accusations that he had betrayed the principles of the legal profession in his zeal to serve the military rulers of Haiti. He imposed a state of emergency, and also expelled a United Nations-Organization of American States Mission that had  been monitoring human rights abuses, giving them only hours to leave the country.
        During his five months in office, Mr. Jonassaint became known for his habit of scheduling his most important official pronouncements at odd hours of the night, sometimes as late as 2 A.M. American officials mocked that custom, saying he was afraid to face his own people, but Haitians merely assumed he had selected that hour after consulting voodoo priests.
        Mr. Jonaissant was, in fact, an ardent believer not only in voodoo, but also  in astrology, numerology and other schools of mysticism, all of which affected his policies and governing style. He was said by friends and other government officials to believe that Haiti was the last remnant of the lost continent of Atlantis, and that the United States coveted the country in order to locate and  then steal the magic Philosophers' Stone.
        Before the American troops landed, Mr. Jonassaint also boasted that voodoo spells would protect Haiti from enemy aircraft and predicted that an army of invisible voodoo warriors would arise to defeat any foreign troops foolish enough to attack. He urged Haitians to "mobilize all the resources and strategies of our ancestors" in resisting an American invasion.
        A native of the northern city of Port-de-Paix, Mr. Jonassaint began his political career in the early 1950's, serving as a Senator in the military dictatorship of Gen. Paul Magloire. During the 30-year dictatorship of the Duvalier family, which ended in 1986, he withdrew from politics, however, and limited himself to practicing law and perfecting his knowledge of ancient Greek  and Latin.
        When a constituent assembly was organized to draft a new constitution in 1986, Mr. Jonassaint was chosen as its president. He served on the Supreme Court until 1991, when Mr. Aristide ordered him to step down because of his age, but he was restored to that position after the military seized power.
        Once American troops landed, Mr. Jonassaint complained that the agreement bearing his name and Mr. Carter's was not being properly implemented, and showed reluctance to leave the National Palace. But with the disintegration of the armed forces that had been his only source of support, there was little he could do, and he finally left office quietly, just days before Mr. Aristide returned from exile in the United States.
        After Mr. Aristide's restoration a year ago this month, Mr. Jonassaint dropped out of public life and spent much of his time, friends and associates said, rummaging through his extensive personal library, which included many law  books and esoteric texts.
        Family members, reached by telephone in Port-au-Prince, declined to disclose  the names of survivors.
      