
        Bill Haire, a leading fashion designer of the 1970's known for his clean-lined sportswear, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in New York. He was 60.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Hazel.
        Mr. Haire had been living in Italy for the last year and a half, working as director of the fashion art department of Polimoda, a design school associated with the University of Florence and the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City. He returned to the United States in January, after his illness was diagnosed.
        His association with F.I.T. dated back to his days as a scholarship student there. He also taught at the school after graduating in 1955.
        Mr. Haire, who was born in New York, attended the High School of Art and Design, where he met his future wife. After their marriage in 1956, the Haires spent several years traveling in Europe, where they visited the couture houses in Paris and developed an appreciation of classicism, beautiful fabrics and fine tailoring. These qualities were apparent in the collections they later designed together and separately.
        In 1959, Mr. Haire became a designer of evening dresses for Victoria Royal in New York, where he remained until 1973. He then teamed up with his wife to design sportswear for Friedrick Sport, a coat manufacturer that added a sportswear collection at a time when sportswear was the dominant American fashion.
        The couple separated in 1981 and Mr. Haire formed Bill Haire Ltd., a designer sportswear house that achieved instant but short-lived success. He was nominated for a Coty Fashion Critics Award in 1983, but closed the business in 1985. He continued to work with his wife through the Haire Design Studio, doing freelance designing for a number of fashion companies while teaching.
        "He was one of the better teachers at F.I.T., where the students loved him," said Stan Herman, the president of the Council of Fashion Designers of America, who met Mr. Haire during their student days. For many years, Mr. Haire was co-chairman of the council's admissions committee.
        In addition to his wife, of Wrightstown, Pa., Mr. Haire is survived by a sister, Florence McCruden of North Belmore, L.I.
      