
        Ralph Herbert, a baritone who sang with the New York City Opera and the Metropolitan Opera, died on Saturday at Riverview, a nursing home in Ann Arbor,  Mich. He was 86.
        Mr. Herbert's resonant voice won solid though not exceptional reviews from critics. But throughout his career, he was consistently praised for his commanding stage presence, subtle characterizations and musical intelligence. Reviewing the New York City Opera's production of Massenet's "Manon" in 1951, Olin Downes wrote in The New York Times of Mr. Herbert's "masterly interpretation, very funny and gross, of the braggart Lescaut."
        Mr. Herbert was born in Austria, where he earned a Doctor of Law degree at the University of Vienna while studying voice at the Vienna Conservatory. By 1938, his interest in opera won out. He made his debut at the Vienna Volksoper as Amonasro in Verdi's "Aida," went on tour with the great Austrian tenor Richard Tauber, performed in Cuba, and in 1940 arrived in New York City, where he came to the attention of the prominent opera conductor Richard Stolz. He made his recital debut in 1949.
        From the start of his career in America, Mr. Herbert associated himself with  efforts to help opera reach larger audiences. He was a founding member of the American Lyric Theater, a company that presented opera in English translation. He performed with the NBC Opera Theater, which telecast English-language performances of such works as Rossini's "Barber of Seville," Strauss's "Rosenkavalier" and Tchaikovsky's "Pique Dame." Significantly, his Metropolitan Opera debut in 1955 was as Count Waldner in an English-language performance of Strauss's "Arabella."
        Mr. Herbert taught at the Mannes College of Music and the Manhattan School of Music before joining the faculty of the University of Michigan School of Music,  where he taught voice and directed opera productions from 1961 to 1981.
        He is survived by his wife, Ada; a daughter, Carol H. Schreck; a son, Norman, and five grandchildren.
      