
        Former United States Representative B. F. Sisk of California, a prominent member of the House Rules Committee and a leading benefactor of the water supply of his state's Central Valley farmlands, died on Wednesday in San Joaquin Garden Hospital in Fresno, his hometown since 1937. He was 84.
        He had suffered a long illness, his family said.
        Mr. Sisk, a Democrat, represented the Central Valley from 1955 through 1978, when he decided to retire from Congress. He was a strong supporter of Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, particularly of their civil-rights and antipoverty legislation.
        Mr. Sisk was appointed to the Rules Committee, which shepherds bills from other committees to the House floor, when, early in the Kennedy Administration,  Speaker Sam Rayburn added to its membership as a way of wresting control of it from a coalition that Southern Democrats had forged with Republicans.
        Although he was not afraid to voice his differences with party positions, Mr. Sisk was seen as a "down-the-liner" for Mr. Kennedy. The President repaid the favor by campaigning for him in 1962, flying to the site of the San Luis Dam, one of Mr. Sisk's proudest contributions to California.
        Mr. Sisk had given the project there, formally the Central Valley Reclamation Project, a hefty boost with his sponsorship of legislation in 1960 authorizing a $500 million addition to it. The project ultimately grew to a vast system of canals and the world's largest reservoir not fed by a natural river.
        Bernice Frederick Sisk -- he was known as Bernie -- was born in rural Texas and moved from job to job until the Depression and a Texas drought sent him to California to work on farms. He was a manager for the General Tire and Rubber Company in 1954 when, to his surprise, it was suggested that he run for Congress. He accepted the challenge and won.
        After retiring from Congress and returning to Fresno, he remained active in community affairs.
        Mr. Sisk is survived by his second wife, Virgie Mitchell Sisk; two daughters, Bobbye Sisk Temple of Fresno and Marilyn Pettenger of Austin, Tex.; two stepdaughters, Lula Elms of Reedley, Calif., and Nan Kamanski of Fresno; two sisters, Lloyd Watkins of Dinuba, Calif., and Opal Powell of Grady, N.M.; six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren. His first wife, Reta, to whom he was married for 54 years, died in 1986.
      