
        Jack Rose, who parlayed a job writing radio jokes for Bob Hope into an acclaimed career as a comedy screenwriter and producer, died on Oct. 20 at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 87.
        His credits were impressive, including "Road to Rio," "April in Paris" and a string of other hits. These were followed by a further string of hits, including "The Seven Little Foys" and "Papa's Delicate Condition," during an 18-year collaboration with Melville Shavelson, who worked on scripts and directed the films that Mr. Rose wrote and produced.
        Later Mr. Rose and Mel Frank received an Oscar nomination for their screenplay for the 1973 George Segal-Glenda Jackson comedy "A Touch of Class." Mr. Rose also wrote a dozen Oscar shows with Mr. Shavelson and Ernest Lehman.
        But to hear Mr. Shavelson and Mr. Lehman tell it, Mr. Rose was more impressive as a reigning wit and raconteur in Hollywood's most critical arena, the writers' tables at studio commissaries.
        The studio system and the writers' tables are gone now, and the camaraderie has been replaced by home computers and fax machines, but listening to his friends reminisce is to hear an echo from the 1950's.
        They would be swapping stories over lunch, when the talk would get around to the time the young Jack Rose arrived home with $20.
        Now this would have been back in the 30's, somebody would say, when Jack was still living at home in Brooklyn, the youngest of 13 children. It took a sense of humor to survive in a family like that, especially if you were Jewish and were born in Warsaw, and Jack was always a kidder.
        Anyway, when Jack was 5, his father brought the family from Poland to Brooklyn (not much of an improvement, Jack liked to say) and even though money was tight Jack managed to go to Ohio University before getting a job with a press agent in Manhattan, writing gags that would be planted in the gossip columns under their clients' names.
        The job didn't pay very much, so when Jack got home with $20 -- a lot of money in those days -- his father wanted to know where he got it.
        "A guy gave it to me for writing a joke," Jack said.
        There's no way Jack's father would believe that, and he immediately suspected the worst.
        Now as it happens, Jack had an older brother, Eddie, who worked for Tom Dewey, the Manhattan D.A., so the father asked Eddie to investigate.
        Sure enough, after a while Eddie came back and said, "Pop, Jack's not working for the mob. It's worse." (Pause)
        "He's working for Milton Berle."
        Mr. Rose honed his craft as a member of the Bob Hope writing team, a notoriously high-pressure cauldron of collaboration reverentially recalled as the birthplace of topical comedy.
        Pressure? Mr. Shavelson recalled the time Mr. Hope replaced five of his original eight writers but had to keep the ones he fired for two more weeks.
        "There were 13 of us working on one show," Mr. Shavelson said. "Bob developed a system to determine which jokes to use: If any of the five dismissed guys laughed, it went in."
        Mr. Rose made the grade, even more at the writers' table. When someone once asked what had happened to Norman Panama, who worked with Mel Frank -- a noted trencherman -- Mr. Rose didn't miss a beat: "Mel Frank ate him."
        Mr. Lehman recalled Mr. Rose as a deceptively sweet-natured man who would wait for just the right moment before coming out with an often acerbic and always convulsive comment. "I never heard him go for a laugh he didn't get," Mr. Lehman said.
        Mr. Rose's second wife, Audrey, died several years ago. He is survived by a son and daughter from his first marriage, Jonathan Rose Levitt and Felicia Rose Levitt; a daughter from his second marriage, Melissa Mary Rose, and an older sister, Eva Rose, all of Los Angeles.
      