
        Don Pendleton, whose "Executioner" series featuring Mack Boland spawned the paperback genre of men's action-adventure novels, died on Monday at his home in Sedona, Ariz. He was 67.
        His wife, Linda, said the cause was a heart attack.
        In the beginning there were westerns, mysteries and science fiction. But until Mr. Pendleton, a onetime air traffic controller, brought Mack Boland to unlikely literary life in 1969, there was no action-adventure category, in which a lone, well-armed fantasy hero wreaks unremitting havoc on the forces of evil in modern society.
        Within a decade of Boland's first appearance, the action-adventure genre was a publishing phenomenon, for a while rivaling if not eclipsing its women's counterpart, romance novels.
        As surely as Owen Wister's "Virginian," gave the world William S. Hart, Hopalong Cassidy, Roy Rogers and the rest, Mr. Pendleton brought forth Rambo, and scores of other copycat heroes. (Curiously, although there have been two projects, "The Executioner" has never made it to the screen.)
        Indeed, a 1988 survey found a total of 66 separate action-adventure series in print. But the genre has been in a sharp decline recently, and only a half-dozen or so survive, "The Executioner" among them.
        The title of the first book, "War on the Mafia," could stand for the entire series since Boland, who comes home from Vietnam to find that his family has been wiped out by the Mafia, spends 38 books getting even, rarely killing fewer than half a dozen gangsters at a time.
        Although Boland lives in Pittsfield, Mass., the action of each book takes place in a different city, a virtual necessity since by the time the gun-wielding hero has come to the end of his 224-page run, there could hardly be enough Mafiosi left in a city to justify a sequel.
        Indeed, after Mr. Pendleton's 38 books there were apparently so few Mafia-ridden cities left that in the next 200 or so books, turned out by other authors under a licensing agreement with the publisher, Harlequin, Boland has to go abroad to find terrorists worthy of his slaughter. With Harlequin cranking out 24 Boland books a year, there are now more than 200 million copies in print.
        Mr. Pendleton, who was born in Little Rock, Ark., enlisted in the Navy at the age of 14 and honed his precocious literary skills composing love letters for his shipmates during World War II.
        While holding a series of civilian jobs he began his literary career in 1957 when he enrolled in a mail-order creative writing course he never finished. He was so impressed with his first assignment that he sent it to an agent and had it published.
        For all his later impact, Mr. Pendleton, who began writing full time at the age of 40, turning out a couple of mysteries and science fiction books with little success, created the action-adventure genre by accident.
        "He just thought of it as another novel," his wife said yesterday, noting that the first Boland book made such an impact his publisher immediately pressed him for sequels.
        After tiring of the Boland series, he turned out six books, published in hardcover, about a psychic detective named Ashton Ford, and six others about a private detective named Joe Copp.
        His last book, "To Dance With Angels," written with his wife about their experiences conversing with spirits through channeling, was published in 1990.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by six children from a previous marriage, Stephen, of Porterville, Calif., Gregory, of Madison, Ind., Rodney, of Ellettsville, Ind., Derek, of Covina, Calif., Melinda Margulies of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and Jennifer Dalto of Rialto, Calif.; a sister, Melba Buffalo of Little Rock, and 24 grandchildren.
      