
        Hamilton E. Holmes, who braved the hostility of racists to integrate the University of Georgia with Charlayne Hunter in 1961 and went on to a distinguished career in medicine and ultimate reconciliation with his alma mater, died on Thursday in his sleep at his home in Atlanta. He was 54.
        His brother Gary said the cause of death was not immediately known, but Dr. Holmes had undergone quadruple bypass heart surgery two weeks ago.
        "The University of Georgia has lost one of its most distinguished graduates," Charles B. Knapp, president of the university, said yesterday.
        The atmosphere was distinctly different in the winter of 1961 when Mr. Holmes, then 19, and Ms. Hunter, 18, who was later to achieve renown as the television journalist Charlayne Hunter-Gault, won a two-and-a-half-year court battle to overturn segregation at the 175-year-old university.
        On Jan. 9, 1961, after last-ditch efforts led by Gov. S. Ernest Vandiver, including the closing of the campus, had been turned back by the United States Supreme Court, Mr. Holmes and Ms. Hunter were admitted to the university.
        At first their arrival on the campus in Athens, Ga., created little disturbance among the university's 7,000 white students. But within a short time a group of youths, swelled by some 1,500 spectators, were jeering Ms. Hunter and shouting, "Go home, nigger, and don't come back!"
        On Jan 11, a howling, cursing mob of about 600 students and a few outsiders laid siege to Ms. Hunter's dormitory.
        The disturbance raged out of control for nearly an hour before it was ended by the police, using tear gas and fire hoses. There were injuries and arrests, and when the unrest was over the university announced that Mr. Holmes and Ms. Hunter had been suspended for their own safety.
        But the next day they were readmitted. Then, largely ignored and friendless among the white students, Mr. Holmes -- who came to the University of Georgia after two years at the all-black Moorehouse College in Atlanta -- went on to be elected to Phi Beta Kappa when he graduated in 1963.
        "He was amazing," Ms. Hunter-Gault said yesterday as she recalled an incident in which Mr. Holmes faced down a group of racist fraternity members. "He had quiet dignity, scholarship. He wouldn't let anything stand in the way of his desire to become a doctor."
        Mr. Holmes became the first black student admitted to the Emory University Medical School in Atlanta, and received his medical degree from Emory in 1967.
        At the time of his death Dr. Holmes was an orthopedic surgeon in Atlanta, associate dean and a member of the faculty of the Emory University School of Medicine and chairman of the orthopedic unit at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, the largest in the Southeast.
        For many years after his graduation, Dr. Holmes, admitting to "bitterness," had little to do with the University of Georgia.
        But in 1983, he was invited to become a trustee of the University of Georgia Foundation, the university's private fund-raising organization. At first he refused. Then he relented, and became the university's first black trustee.
        Two years later, as part of the university's bicentennial, it established the Holmes-Hunter Lecture, which brings a noted African-American speaker to the campus each year to discuss racial issues.
        After the first of the lectures, almost 25 years after he and Ms. Hunter integrated the university, they were presented with its bicentennial medallion.
        In accepting the award, Dr. Holmes said: "I have come to really love this university. People look at me and say, 'You're crazy, man. How can you love that place?' But I will never forget this, and I will cherish it forever."
        Seven years later, in 1992, Dr. Holmes and Ms. Hunter-Gault announced that they were creating the Holmes-Hunter Scholarship for African-American students.
        "I would like to think I would have made it if I had not been one of the first black students here," Dr. Holmes said. "But I think I have been enriched much more because of that experience. We want to continue this with our young brothers and sisters at the university and enable them to get an education they can be proud of."
        On another occasion, he said, "Improving this university -- making it the best -- will benefit everyone in Georgia, blacks and whites."
        Dr. Holmes's son, Hamilton Jr., graduated from the university in 1990.
        Dr. Holmes, the son of Alfred Holmes, a businessman, and Isabella Holmes, a schoolteacher, was born in Atlanta.
        At the all-black Henry McNeal Turner High School, where Mr. Holmes and Ms. Hunter were classmates, he was co-captain of the football team, captain of the basketball team and president of his junior and senior classes. He maintained a 3.88 scholastic average and was valedictorian of his class.
        Besides his son and his brother Gary, both of Atlanta, Dr. Holmes is survived by his wife of 30 years, the former Marilyn Vincent Holmes of Atlanta; a daughter, Alison, of Charlotte, N.C.; his mother, Isabella C. Holmes of Atlanta; two other brothers, A. Herbert, of Atlanta, and Michael, of Manhattan, and a sister, E. Lauren Holmes, also of Manhattan.
      