
        Dr. Saul Krugman, a longtime head of pediatrics at the New York University School of Medicine and a leader in the development of vaccines against measles, rubella and hepatitis, died on Thursday at Broward General Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 84 and had lived in Fort Lauderdale since his retirement in 1991 as professor of pediatrics at New York University Medical Center.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, a spokesman for the medical center in New York said.
        Dr. Krugman's association with N.Y.U. lasted 47 years. He was chairman of the department of pediatrics from 1960 to 1975, a period during which he also directed the pediatric service at Bellevue Hospital. He established one of the country's first comprehensive children's health clinics, setting a pattern for medical centers elsewhere in the country.
        He and his co-workers evaluated newly developed vaccines against polio, measles, rubella and hepatitis B. In his crowning achievement, he unraveled the mysteries of viral hepatitis and helped defeat that family of debilitating diseases.
        Dr. Krugman, the author of well over 200 scientific papers, received many honors in this country and abroad, including a medical research award for public service in 1983 from the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation. Its citation said that Dr. Krugman had provided "critically important studies of hepatitis, rubella and measles." It singled out his pivotal role in creating a vaccine against the hepatitis B virus. That insidious microscopic organism caused liver disease for an estimated 300 million people around the world and contributed significantly to liver cancer.
        Dr. Krugman's studies were the first to show that what was then called type A, or infectious, hepatitis, which is transmitted by oral contact with infected material, was different from hepatitis B, which is transmitted by blood and sexual contact. Subsequent research has shown that a number of viruses cause different types of hepatitis.
        His field trials also proved the effectiveness of the first vaccine against rubella in 1969. A usually mild disease then known as German measles, rubella can cause severe brain damage and other disabilities in a fetus. Once a recurring epidemic, vaccination virtually eliminated birth defects from it in this country.
        Similarly, he led the way with tests gaining the approval and wide use of the first vaccine against measles, once a threat to all children. Effective vaccination made it a medical rarity, too.
        "Saul Krugman has done more to eliminate pediatric infectious diseases than any other person ever," said Dr. Wade Parks, chairman of the pediatrics department at the N.Y.U. School of Medicine.
        Dr. Krugman's career came under a shadow in the late 1960's after accusations that he had used retarded children at the Willowbrook State School on Staten Island as human guinea pigs for his hepatitis research. But in 1971, his chief critic in the New York State Senate, Seymour B. Thaler of Queens, conceded the work had been properly conducted.
        He called Dr. Krugman a dedicated researcher who had "done a magnificent thing." He ascribed his earlier criticism to reports that "overzealous employees" at Willowbrook had coerced parents into letting their children take part in the hepatitis project.
        In a 1981 speech, Dr. Joseph Dancis of N.Y.U. said that Dr. Krugman "stood firm in the face of extreme pressure, refusing to respond in kind to invectives, trying vainly to meet passion with reason," adding that he and his colleagues "applied themselves for years to the medical problems of an isolated and neglected group of children with great benefit to their subjects and to children everywhere."
        Dr. Krugman was a co-author of "Infectious Diseases of Children," which medical experts described as a classic textbook. First published in 1958, it is now in its ninth edition (Mosby-Year Book, 1992).
        Dr. Krugman's accomplishments made him an active participant in national and international scientific conferences and symposia. He also carried out research around the world, particularly in Nigeria, Israel, Greece, Taiwan, Japan and New Zealand.
        He was born in the Bronx, the son of immigrant parents from Russia. He did his undergraduate work at Ohio State University and the University of Richmond and received his medical degree at the Medical College of Virginia in 1939.
        He spent four years as a wartime flight surgeon in the United States Army Air Corps and joined the N.Y.U. faculty in 1946 as an instructor in pediatrics. He rose to associate professor by 1956 and was promoted to full professor in 1960. He returned to his role as a full-time researcher and teacher after his stint as department chairman.
        He headed a commission on viral and rickettsial vaccines for the Federal Food and Drug Administration in the 1970's. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1976 and was named a senior member of its Institute of Medicine 10 years later.
        Besides the Lasker Award, his many honors include the Gold Medal of the Robert Koch Institute (1978), the Howland Award of the American Pediatric Society (1981), the American Red Cross Gold Medal(1982) and the Karl Lansteiner Memorial Award (1985).
        Dr. Krugman is survived by his wife of 55 years, Sylvia Stern Krugman; a son, Richard D., of Denver, the dean of the University of Colorado Medical School; a daughter, Carol L. Krugman of Fort Lauderdale; a brother, Seymour, of Atlanta, and four grandsons.
      