
        Gottfried Haberler, an Austrian-born economist known for his staunch defense of free-market principles in international trade and national economic policies, died at his home here on Saturday. He was 94 years old.
        Mr. Haberler died of respiratory failure caused by pneumonia, said James E. DeVol, a funeral director at the DeVol Funeral Home here. The pneumonia was a complication from Parkinson's Disease, he added.
        In the 1930's and early 40's, Mr. Haberler was a highly articulate critic of large-scale Government intervention in the economy. Such intervention had gained intellectual favor as a response to the worldwide Depression. Mr. Haberler's early critiques of the work of John Maynard Keynes, the British economist, produced some adjustments in how the school of economic theory known as Keynesianism dealt with the effects of falling prices on economic growth.
        Mr. Haberler pointed out in 1941 that falling prices may make people feel wealthier as they contemplate the additional buying power of their holdings of cash and other easily spent assets. As people realize they are wealthier, they tend to spend more, which may limit the severity of an economic depression. Mr. Keynes had argued that the government needed to intervene in economic depressions because other economic forces were to put spending back on track.
        "He ended up helping making not Model T Keynesianism but latter-day Keynesianism a better and more viable set of analysis," said Paul A. Samuelson, a professor emeritus of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Economics and Mr. Haberler's former student at Harvard University,
        Mr. Samuelson said his teacher had been consistent in his writings over the last seven decades. "At bottom, he stuck to the view of a very limited welfare state with most of the work of economics having to be done by the market," he said.
        Mr. Haberler also broadened the mathematical basis for the theory of "comparative advantage," which deals with analyzing the mutual gains that countries reap from free trade, even when one country has higher costs than the other country for every product. He also produced in 1937 a comprehensive review of existing business cycle theories, "Prosperity and Depression," that remains a classic.
        Mr. Haberler was descended from aristocratic families in Austria and Liechtenstein. He received his bachelor's degree and doctorates in law and economics from the University of Vienna, where he was part of a group of brilliant Austrian economists that also included Friedrich von Hayek, the late Nobel prize-winner. Mr. Haberler then moved to the United States and taught at Harvard University from 1936 to 1971.
        Following his retirement as Galen L. Stone Professor of International Trade at Harvard, Mr. Haberler became a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a research group here that stresses free-market approaches to public policy issues. Mr. Haberler stayed at the institute, and continued to write on economics, until his death.
        Mr. Haberler's wife, Friederike Kaan Haberler, died in 1991. He is survived by a sister, Maria Haberler, who lives in Liechtenstein, and by several nieces and nephews.
      