
        Thomas F. Murphy, whose career in law and law enforcement brought him to the  prosecutor's table in the Alger Hiss case, to the office of New York City Police Commissioner and ultimately to the Federal bench, died on Thursday at Noble Horizons, a nursing home in Salisbury, Conn. Mr. Murphy, who formerly lived in Sharon, Conn., was 89.
        Bulldog tenacity and a quiet, persistent pursuit of facts were hallmarks of Mr. Murphy's career. Tall (6 feet 4 inches), heavyset (250 pounds) and well tailored, the walrus-mustached Mr. Murphy sometimes reminded people of Theodore  Roosevelt, who was also a Police Commissioner of New York City.
        In 1949, in Mr. Murphy's most famous case, he was the assistant United States attorney designated to be the lead prosecutor in the famous trial of Mr.  Hiss, a former State Department official accused of perjury. In a case that bitterly divided the public at a time of concern about Communist infiltration of the Government, Mr. Hiss was accused of having lied by denying he had passed confidential documents to Whittaker Chambers, an avowed Communist and courier for the party.
        After six weeks, the first trial ended in a hung jury. The retrial lasted 10  weeks. Each morning and afternoon, after court adjourned, Mr. Murphy went directly to his office and dictated a detailed series of notes on what had taken place.
        Fueling himself with steaming pots of coffee late into the night, he pored over the court record and eventually dragged out damaging contradictions. When it came time to address the jury, Mr. Murphy delivered a two-and-a-half hour summation without ever glancing at his notes. The jury returned a verdict of guilty on Jan. 21, 1950.
        That fall, given a mandate by Mayor Vincent R. Impellitteri to root out corruption, Mr. Murphy took over a Police Department undermined by the disclosures of a Brooklyn bookmaker named Harry Gross that widespread corruption and collusion had spread into the highest levels of the 19,000-member force.
        Mr. Murphy, who would hold the job for less than a year, moved quickly to replace every member of the 336-man plainclothes squad with younger officers and instituted a policy of promotions through merit. He shuffled 21 members of the senior staff and won praise for firmness and resolute action. In the Mayoral election that took place shortly after his appointment, Republican and Democratic candidates alike expressed admiration for him.
        Discussing the police, Mr. Murphy was quick to note, "For every cop who will  take a buck from a bookie, there are hundreds who will stand up for you and me and take a bullet."
        The next year, as he looked back, he said: "I am convinced today that basically, the large percentage of public servants are morally and intellectually honest. They try to do a day's job, honestly and conscientiously. There should be no place in government for the venal rascals who bring harm to other loyal workers as well as violate the public trust."
        That attitude, as well as Mr. Murphy's Democratic politics and his success as a prosecutor, doubtless helped to convince President Harry S. Truman to appoint  Mr. Murphy to the United States District Court in July 1951.
        As a Federal judge, Mr. Murphy presided over a wide range of cases. They included those involving the Swedish sex film "I Am Curious -- Yellow," which he termed "repulsive and revolting"; James R. Hoffa, the president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, who was charged with wiretapping, and a  former Yale lecturer, Vladimir Sokolov, who, Judge Murphy ruled, concealed his past as a World War II Nazi propagandist.
        Mr. Murphy, who was born in Manhattan, was a son of Thomas Murphy, for many years the chief clerk of the Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity and a grandson of a New York City patrolman. Thomas Murphy was not the only one of the four children in his family to achieve renown. His younger brother, Fireman  Johnny Murphy, was an ace relief pitcher for the New York Yankees in the 1930's  and 40's before finishing his career with the Boston Red Sox and eventually becoming general manager of the New York Mets.
        In fact, when Mr. Hiss was finally convicted and Mr. Murphy, his wife and another couple sought release from the tensions of the trial by going to a nightclub, they were emerging from a taxi when the driver asked the other man in the cab:
        "Who's the big fellow?"
        "That's Tom Murphy, the man who just convicted Alger Hiss," came the reply.
        "Oh," the driver said, "you mean Johnny Murphy's brother!"
        Thomas Murphy graduated from Regis High School and entered Georgetown University, where he earned a bachelor of arts degree in 1927. Three years later, he received a law degree from Fordham University and, after admission to  the bar that year, joined the firm of Alcott, Holmes, Glass & Paul and spent the next 12 years in private practice.
        In 1942, Mr. Murphy became an assistant United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, and two years later became head of the office's criminal division, prosecuting embezzlement, smuggling, draft evasions, kidnapping, stock and mail fraud, counterfeiting, draft evasion and other Federal crimes.
        Seven years later, after compiling a 99 percent conviction record, he became  chief prosecutor in the Hiss trials.
        He served on the Federal bench until taking senior judge status. In 1968, after he moved to Connecticut, he became a visiting judge for the Federal District of Connecticut in Waterbury, and also served during the winter months on the Ninth Circuit bench in Arizona and Connecticut.
        In addition to his wife, Katherine, Mr. Murphy is survived by a sister, Anna  Henn of New York City.
      