
        John B. Poor, a former president and chairman of RKO General Inc., the broadcasting company, died on Tuesday at the Pine Rest nursing home in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 80 and for most of his life had homes in Garden City and East Hampton, L.I.
        Mr. Poor suffered from Parkinson's disease, according to his son, John B. Poor Jr. of Short Hills, N.J.
        A graduate of Wesleyan University and Harvard Law School, Mr. Poor joined RKO General in 1948 as vice president and general counsel. Two years later, he was named president of the Mutual Broadcasting System, a radio network that was a subsidiary of RKO until 1957, when it was sold to a subsidiary of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation.
        Mr. Poor ran Mutual Broadcasting until 1962, when he was named president of RKO General. In 1975, he became chairman and chief executive, posts he held until his retirement in 1981.
        A diversified subsidiary of what was then called the General Tire and Rubber Company, RKO owned 13 radio and 6 television stations around the country, including WOR-TV, WOR-AM and RKS-FM in New York City, KHJ-TV in Los Angeles, WNAC-TV in Boston and HBQ-TV in Memphis, as well as Cable TV Systems, an early cable television venture.
        In addition to its broadcasting operations, RKO General owned several large Pepsi-Cola bottling companies, Frontier Airlines and several resorts and hotels.
        General Tire, now known as Gencorp Inc., began to sell off its RKO broadcasting properties soon after Mr. Poor retired; the sell-off process was completed in 1991. Gencorp's decision to get out of broadcasting was partly based on a series of challenges by various groups to its licenses.
        Mr. Poor's wife, Betty Rome Poor, died in 1984.
        Besides his son, Mr. Poor is survived by a sister, Betsey Poor Fisher of Andover, Me.; four daughters, Nancy Poor Kelley of Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J., Penelope Dolara of Coral Gables, Fla., Pamela Mallory of Charlotte, N.C. and Lisbeth Poor Farnum of Duxbury, Mass., and 11 grandchildren.
      