
        Wladyslaw Otton Biernacki-Poray, an architect who founded and designed the American Research Hospital for Children in Krakow, Poland, died on Wednesday in Warsaw, where he was on a business trip. He was 71 and lived in Montclair, N.J.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Krystyna Poray-Goddu.
        Mr. Biernacki-Poray was born in Lwow, Poland, now Lvov, Ukraine. He joined the Polish Army in 1939 and, after spending time as a Russian prisoner, served with the Second Polish Corps of the British Eighth Army in the Middle East and Italy. He received decorations for valor in the battle of Monte Cassino, Italy, where he was wounded.
        After studying architecture at the University of Rome and Polish University College in London, Mr. Biernacki-Poray worked as an architect in Britain. In 1952 he came to the United States, where he worked for the Manhattan architects Howard T. Fisher & Associates before starting his own company, Biernacki-Poray & Associates, in 1955.
        In 1958, he persuaded Senators Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota and Jacob K. Javits of New York, both Democrats, to lead an effort to amend the Battle Act of 1950, which prevented the United States Government from spending Polish currency to build anything in Communist Poland. The United States had acquired the money from sales of surplus agricultural products.
        The amended act allowed the money to be used to the children's hospital, which was completed in 1965.
        The hospital, now the Pediatric Institute of the Medical University of Krakow, is one of the largest children's hospitals in Europe, with 720 beds. For establishing the hospital, Mr. Biernacki-Poray was awarded the Order of Polonia Restytuta, one of the country's highest civilian honors.
        Mr. Biernacki-Poray also designed the Lady of Czestochowa Shrine and Pauline Fathers' monastery in Doylestown, Pa., and the Federal Building in Newark.
        In addition to his daughter Mrs. Poray-Goddu, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife, Zofia; a son, Marek, of Montclair; another daughter, Renia, of Burlington, Vt., and two grandchildren.
      