
        William R. White, an accidental banker who followed a circuitous path to become New York's youngest Superintendent of Banks during a critical period in the 1930's and then spent a quarter-century as a top officer of what became the  Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Lewisburg,  Pa. He was 92.
        Mr. White never intended a career in banking. Indeed, his son David said yesterday, until his father worked his way through Bucknell University in Lewisburg, all he wanted to do was to make a decent life for himself outside Coudersport, an impoverished farming community in north-central Pennsylvania, where his own father had broken with a family subsistence farming tradition to eke out a living by operating a general store.
        While at Bucknell, Mr. White finally made a firm career choice: to become a  lawyer in New York.
        After obtaining his law degree from Columbia in 1929, Mr. White did become a  lawyer, but he made the fateful mistake of joining a firm, Chadbourne & Whiteside, that did so much legal work for the New York State Banking Department that for a year Mr. White did little else but work on state banking matters.
        He also apparently did the work uncommonly well; well enough, anyway, that he caught the attention of the state's Banking Superintendent, Joseph A. Broderick, who persuaded him to accept an appointment to the department's legal staff in 1930.
        Six years later, at 32, he was named by Gov. Herbert H. Lehman to succeed Mr. Broderick as Superintendent.
        The 1930's was a heady time to be a bank regulator in New York. For one thing, the Depression had taken a heavy toll on the nation's financial institutions, causing many banks to fail, putting even more in severe jeopardy and uncovering a range of abusive or unsound practices that needed corrective attention.
        For another, far more than it is today, New York was the nation's banking capital, and the state's banking department had enormous responsibilities for the nation's financial stability.
        With the exception of the Bank of America in California and Continental Illinois in Chicago, all of the nation's largest banks were based in New York City and operated under charters from New York State, not from the Federal Government.
        As a result, with perhaps half the nation's financial assets under his supervisory control and with with broad regulatory jurisdiction over everything  from reserve requirements and interest rates to the minutiae of specific loan and other banking practices, the Superintendent had the combined powers of today's Comptroller of the Currency and the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.
        Although the worst of the banking crisis was over by the time he became Superintendent on Jan. 1, 1936, Mr. White, who had been deeply involved in the department's activities as he worked his way up the administrative ladder, had plenty on his plate.
        In addition to his day-to-day duties, Mr. White, who persuaded the State Legislature to put a cap on interest rates charged by small-loan companies, also spearheaded an overhaul of the state's banking laws that at once strengthened New York State's position as the chartering agency of choice for the nation's largest banks and foreordained its decline.
        The revamped regulations were considered so advanced that they served as a model for those later adopted by the Federal Government, which eventually lured  the big banks to the Federal fold.
        Mr. White resigned his post in 1942 to become a vice president of the old Guaranty Trust Company, which later merged with the Morgan Bank to become Morgan Guaranty Trust.
        As the officer in charge of Guaranty's operations in a region running from New York to Maryland, Mr. White had reason to welcome the merger with Morgan. As Superintendent on March 21, 1940, he had presided over the demise of J. P. Morgan & Company's long and storied role as a private bank by approving its certificate of incorporation as a state-chartered bank.
        He may have become a banker by accident, but when it came to his retirement,  Mr. White, an avid hunter and fisherman, left nothing to chance. In 1944, he bought a 21-acre Dutchess County farm situated in the middle of the famous hunting and fishing preserve operated by the Clove Valley Rod and Gun Club in La Grange, N.Y. When he retired as a Morgan Guaranty senior vice president in 1968, he moved there full time.
        Besides his son, of Chatham, N.J., he is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; another son, William Jr., of Venice, Fla.; a daughter, Deborah Anderson, of Hilton Head Island, S.C.; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      