
        Dr. Willet F. Whitmore Jr., a New York specialist on tumors of the urologic tracts, died yesterday at his home in Amagansett, L.I. He was 78.
        The Williams Funeral Home in East Hampton said the cause was prostate cancer, a disease on which he was an internationally recognized authority.
        For 33 years, starting in 1951, Dr. Whitmore served as chief of urology at what is now Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. There and beyond, he was known as "the dean of urologic oncology."
        He helped to define a relatively new field dealing with conditions of the urinary system and the male genital tract. He introduced new surgical techniques and ways to treat urologic cancers by combining surgery with radiotherapy or chemotherapy.
        He was among a number of his colleagues who disputed the value of the prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, screening test for men over 65. He recommended "watchful waiting" rather then rushing into surgery with older men with elevated PSA levels or even confirmed prostate cancers. In his view, survival had less to do with treatment than with the biology of individual tumors.
        He was a respected teacher of young clinicians and established a urology fellowship. Through that program and its graduates, he influenced many practioners in his field.
        In 1976, he removed the bladder of Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota to treat a cancer. The historian Cornelius Ryan, who chronicled his own struggle with prostate cancer in "A Private Battle," described Dr. Whitmore in the book as the "Cary Grant of medicine" because of his "intensity of spirits, health, charm, vitality."
        Born in Amityville, L.I., Dr. Whitmore was a graduate of Rutgers University and Cornell University Medical College. He trained for his specialty at New York University-Cornell Medical Center and was appointed to the attending staff at Memorial Hospital in 1947.
        He is survived by three daughters, Wendy Whitmore of Glen Cove, L.I., Linda Whitmore of Troy, Mich., and Polly Whitmore of Marblehead, Mass.; three sons, Dr. Willet F. 3d, of Sarasota, Fla., and Dr. Wayne G. and Carl S., both of Manhattan; his mother, Elsie Whitmore of Amityville; a brother, Charles, of Amagansett; a sister, Margaret Johnson of Ortonville, Mich., and four grandchildren.
      