
        Kukrit Pramoj, a former Prime Minister of Thailand who steered the country through a difficult and politically dangerous period after the end of the Vietnam War, died yesterday in Bangkok. He was 84 and had been hospitalized for  heart disease and diabetes.
        Mr. Kukrit -- who was usually addressed with the noble title of Mom Rajawong  because he was the son of a royal prince -- was one of Thailand's most colorful, outspoken and versatile characters. He co-founded a newspaper and wrote political commentary, mastered classical Thai dancing and opened a school to teach it to younger generations, acted in a film -- "The Ugly American" with Marlon Brando -- and remained an unashamedly opinionated elder statesman until the end of his life.
        It was as a defender of nascent Thai democracy in the 1970's that Mr. Kukrit is best remembered by historians of contemporary Southeast Asia. Prime Minister  for only 14 months in 1975-1976, he faced the collapse of South Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia to Communist movements, which many believed would soon threaten Thailand.
        But Mr. Kukrit, rejecting the domino theory, established diplomatic relations with China and asked American troops to leave the huge bases from which they had mounted much of the war in Vietnam.
        These bold steps were popular with Thai intellectuals, particularly leftists  who had a influence on his thinking, John Bresnan, executive director of the Pacific Basin studies program at Columbia University, said yesterday. But his policies quickly provoked a conservative backlash. Mr. Kukrit and his Social Action Party were defeated in an election in 1976 that he had called in the hope of strengthening his political hand.
        While Prime Minister, Mr. Kukrit tried to build a democratic polity strong enough to resist persistent pressures from the Thai Army, which has staged repeated coups over more than half a century. As late as 1987, when he was in his 70's, he was still defying the generals. After a speech in which he accused  the military of trying to establish the equivalent of a Communist-style "politburo" to run the country, 250 ill-disciplined Thai Army rangers, troops known for violent behavior, arrived in buses from the remote northeast and tried to break into his home to threaten him.
        When the Army commander, Gen. Chavalit Yongchaiyudh, who is now Defense Minister, did not discipline the troops, a storm of criticism arose in the ever-bolder Thai press. Students from 21 institutions of higher education -- precursors of the student leaders and young professionals who would take to the  streets to defend democracy in 1992 -- came to his home with bouquets of flowers, a touching, traditional Thai way of showing respect or making amends.
        Mr. Kukrit was born on April 20, 1911, and was educated in Thailand and at Oxford University. At 25, he married Pakpring Tongyai and they had two children: a son, Rongrit, and a daughter, Visumitra. His political career began in 1946 with his election to the Thai Parliament. Several years later he co-founded the  Thai-language newspaper Siam Rath. He did not withdraw formally from politics until about four years ago.
        A quiet nationalist -- his dog barked only at Westerners, he would tell visitors with a chuckle -- Mr. Kukrit became a strong advocate of holding on to  Thai traditions in architecture, language and the arts while others were rushing into the Westernization that accompanied a phenomenal economic takeoff. In the center of booming Bangkok, surrounded by rising concrete apartment blocks and offices, he lived in a classical Thai house built of tropical wood, and filled it with Thai treasures. He set a powerful, if increasingly lonely, example.
        "We Thai can lead a life that is genuinely Thai and be quite happy about it," he said in an interview in 1987. "We don't have to live in Western houses or employ Western methods in our daily lives. If we were to limit ourselves to just being Thai people, I think we would be happier all around."
        In addition to his immediate family, Mr. Kukrit is survived by a brother, Seni Pramoj, 90, also a former Prime Minister.
      