
        Lord Home of the Hirsel, the languid aristocrat who, as Sir Alec Douglas-Home, was Prime Minister of Britain for 12 months in 1963 and 1964, died yesterday at his home in Berwickshire, Scotland, near the English border. He was 92.
        Lord Home (pronounced hume) was a rich Scottish landowner and a Conservative. He was the 14th Earl of Home until he was obliged to renounce that title, and lesser ones that he also held, in order to become Prime Minister, who must sit in the elected House of Commons, .
        And so in October 1963 he became plain Sir Alec -- having been knighted in 1962 -- and replaced his fellow Conservative Harold Macmillan, who was ailing, as Prime Minister.
        Sir Alec held that post from October 1963 to October 1964 and was the last blueblood to head the Conservative Party, which he did from 1963 to 1965. In 1974 he was given a life peerage -- a baronage -- and became Lord Home of the Hirsel.
        The current Prime Minister, John Major -- a Conservative and a lifelong commoner -- said yesterday, "Alec was understated and often underestimated."
        Years earlier, the writer and critic Cyril Connolly, a former schoolmate of the young Alexander Frederick Douglas-Home, described him as "honorably ineligible for the struggle of life." And indeed he had a diffident charm.
        Yet as the years passed, the future Prime Minister moved casually, even reluctantly, up the ladder of Government appointments. Critics said he was unfit for each new challenge. Then he would prove competent, if not inspiring, and be  elevated to a new post.
        He was asked once in 1962 why Mr. Macmillan, who was Prime Minister then, had summoned him from the post of Commonwealth Secretary two years before to become  Foreign Secretary -- Britain's Foreign Minister.
        "I don't know," he said then. "I can tell you I wasn't keen. I was sorry he asked me, and he knew it at the time."
        Then Lord Home was asked, "Would you like to be Prime Minister?"
        "No."
        "You sound very definite. Why not?"
        "Well," the 14th Earl replied, "after I had dipped fairly freely into my first bottle of port, my father said to me, 'You know, the most important thing  in life is to know when to stop.' "
        But the slim and frail-seeming Scot did not stop. He was helped by his diffidence to become the Conservatives' compromise choice to succeed Mr. Macmillan. And a safe Scottish seat in the House of Commons was found for Sir Alec to occupy.
        For some time, he seemed uneasy in his new job. Though he was able to argue effectively on foreign affairs in the House of Commons, he often found economic  matters beyond his grasp in the heat of debate.
        He was reminded frequently of an interview he had given two years earlier, when he said, "When I have to read economic documents, I have to have a box of matches to simplify and illustrate the points to myself." And so cartoonists pictured the Prime Minister working out balance of payments problems with matchsticks.
        Nonetheless, he learned quickly to like the office. He scheduled general elections for Oct. 15, 1964, warned voters that a Labor victory would "demand massive surrender of freedom to the state," and led the Conservatives through a  hard-hitting campaign.
        But Labor won a majority in the House of Commons, which meant that Sir Alec had to submit his resignation as Prime Minister to the Queen, and the Labor leader, Harold Wilson, who called him "an elegant anachronism," became Prime Minister.
        Looking back at Sir Alec's defeat, the British news agency Reuters said yesterday that his tenure as Prime Minister "was not regarded as a great success" and that his defeat had come "as Britain turned away from his evocation of traditional values to embrace a new age of technology promised by Wilson."
        The future Lord Home was born in London, went to Eton and studied history at  Oxford. Before he inherited the earldom, he was a member of the House of Commons from 1931 to 1945. Spinal tuberculosis kept him out of uniform in World War II.
        He was back in the House of Commons in 1950 and 1951, when he succeeded his father and became the 14th Earl. Then he was in the House of Lords from 1951 to  1963. His last stint in the House of Commons went from 1963 to 1974, when he was made a life peer.
        Lord Home's many Government posts included functioning as his country's Foreign Minister from 1960 to 1963 and again from 1970 to 1974.
        His wife of 54 years -- the former Elizabeth Alington, daughter of his headmaster at Eton -- died in 1990.
        His survivors include his son, David Douglas-Home, who now becomes the 15th Earl of Home, and three daughters.
      