
        George Ignatius Lythcott, a former assistant Commissioner of Health in New York City and assistant Surgeon General in Washington, died on Saturday at his home in Martha's Vineyard, Mass. He was 77 and lived in Tappan, N.Y., until retiring from his city post last year.
        The cause was complications from prostate cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Lythcott, a prominent New York pediatrician, also served as a dean and professor at the City University Medical School and Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education, a branch of the City University system. He held that position from 1986 to 1990. Then, as assistant commissioner, he was in charge of the Health Department's Bureau of Schoolchildren's and Adolescent Health.
        A native of Manhattan, he grew up in Tulsa, Okla. He graduated from Bates College and Boston University Medical School. He interned and trained in pediatrics at Boston Children's Hospital, where he was also chief resident in pediatrics.
        In the 1960's, Dr. Lythcott spent six years in West Africa. Initially, he conducted clinical research in pulmonary diseases at the West African Research Laboratory in Accra, Ghana. He then worked in a five-year United States assistance program as a regional director, helping 19 African countries to combat smallpox and measles.
        Columbia University appointed him associate dean for urban and community affairs at its College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1969. There, he led a university program to improve health services for residents of Washington Heights and Harlem.
        He left New York in 1974 to be a professor of pediatrics and associate vice chancellor for academic affairs at the University of Wisconsin at Madison.
        In 1977, President Jimmy Carter named him Administrator of the Health Services Administration in the Department of Health and Human Services and an assistant Surgeon General. During his tenure, he and the National Medical Association conducted a major nationwide drive by black physicians to vaccinate  minority children against childhood diseases.
        Dr. Lythcott is survived by his wife, Jean Snookes Lythcott; two daughters, Ngina Lythcott of Swarthmore, Pa., and Julie Lythcott-Haims of Menlo Park, Calif.; two sons, Michael, of Atlanta, and George I. 3d, of Oakland, Calif.; a stepson, Ian Forrester of London; a sister, Sybil Peterson of Buffalo, and six grandchildren.
      