
        Gerard de Vaucouleurs, an astronomer whose controversial theories about the clustering of galaxies helped shape the way science now views the structure of the universe, died on Saturday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 77, and until  his retirement had been a professor at the University of Texas.
        His wife said the cause was a heart attack.
        In a field where direct observation of the universe is limited to individual telescopic glimpses of the tiniest pinpricks of light in the vast canopy of the  sky and where "seeing" the universe is reserved to those with the imagination to conceptualize the structures implied by an array of specific observations, Mr. de Vaucouleurs came to be regarded as a master visionary.
        For a while, he was viewed as a crackpot.
        That stars, like the sun and its 10 billion or so immediate stellar neighbors, are clustered by gravity into galaxies, had been well known before Mr. de Vaucouleurs came along, and it had also been known that there were billions of galaxies beyond the Milky Way, as the local galaxy is known.
        What Mr. de Vaucouleurs did, beginning in the 1950's, was to establish that through the interplay of gravity, galaxies themselves, are arrayed into superclusters, among them a Local Supercluster including the Milky Way, its neighbor Andromeda and a pair of galaxies known as the Magellanic Clouds.
        Like others of his generation, Mr. de Vaucouleurs expanded on the work of Edwin Hubble, the founding father of modern astronomy, whose work at the Wilson  Observatory in 1929 led to the "big bang" theory suggesting that the universe was created with an explosion, the existence of which is implied by the observation that the farther away an object is from a theoretical center of the  universe the faster it is traveling away from that center.
        Mr. de Vaucouleurs's theories created an immediate controversy, in part because they led him to conclude that the universe was expanding much faster than had been thought and was therefore much younger, a mere 10 billion years rather than 20 billion or so.
        Although there is still considerable room for debate about that and other of  his theories, Mr. de Vaucouleurs is almost universally acknowledged to have opened up an entire field of study, that of the galaxies beyond the Milky Way.
        Mr. de Vaucouleurs, who was born in Paris and received degrees in physics, mathematics and astronomy at the University of Paris, did work at many of the world's leading observatories, most especially in Australia, where his observations of the southern skies in Canberra and at the Yale-Columbia Southern Station on Mount Stromlo, laid much of the groundwork for his theories.
        In a field in which determinations of the speed and line-of-sight direction of a galaxy's movement is determined by spectrographic analysis, Mr. de Vaucouleurs's most important work was based on a statistical analysis of hundreds of specific readings.
        For all the early controversy, his work tended be be so meticulous and his findings eventually so corroborated by others that his theories gained wide acceptance.
        To colleagues he was known as a walking encyclopedia, one whose familiarity with even the most recent research reports seemed astounding considering the extent of his own writings.
        Together with his longtime collaborator, his first wife, the former Antoinette Pietra, who died in 1988, he produced 400 research and technical papers, 20 books and 100 articles for laymen.
        Mr. de Vaucouleurs did so much pioneering work in studying a myriad of aspects of the outer galaxies, especially their subtly diverse shapes, that it was easy for his colleagues to forget that his early focus had been in planetary physics with particular attention to Mars.
        It was also easy to see why he turned away from the comparatively simplistic  physics of the solar system to the bizarre worlds beyond, an arena where the official classifications of galactic shapes include spiral, elliptic, irregular  and peculiar.
        If astronomy is sometimes whimsical, Mr. de Vaucouleurs looked like an astronomer. A small, dapper, impeccably dressed man, who favored tailored suits, Mr. de Vaucouleurs carried his Paris boulevardier formality to rare extremes: When outdoors he always wore thin gray gloves, a stylistic affectation that always seemed startling for a man who also made it a point to wear a 10-gallon hat.
        He is survived by his second wife, Elysabeth.
      