
        Aditya Vikram Birla, the chairman of the $2.3-billion Birla Group and an advocate of expanding Indian economic activity abroad, died Sunday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore of complications arising from pneumonia, according to his business associates.
        Mr. Birla, who was 51 and widely regarded as one of India's most successful businessmen, was admitted to the hospital about four months ago for treatment of a slipped disc. His associates said he had contracted pneumonia in the hospital.
        Finance Minister Manmohan Singh called Mr. Birla "among the best and brightest citizens of India."
        A top executive at the Birla group said Mr. Birla was likely to be succeeded by his son, Kumaramangalam Birla, the company's deputy chairman.
        Aditya Birla was born in 1944 in Calcutta, the son of the industrialist Basant Kumar Birla. His grandfather, Ghyansham Das Birla, was an associate of Mohandas K. Gandhi, the Indian independence leader, and built his fortune on aluminum prospecting and as the manufacturer of the sturdy Ambassador car.
        After college in Calcutta, Mr. Birla earned a degree in chemical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        Returning to India in 1965, Mr. Birla resisted his grandfather's pressure to enter the aluminum industry and struck out on his own in textiles. His Eastern Spinning Mills at Calcutta became a swift success, and he was placed in charge of the corporation's expansion into the oil sector.
        Mr. Birla initiated the first Indian joint-venture company in Indonesia, a textile plant in the Philippines, moved into palm-oil refining in Malaysia and built advanced plants to manufacture viscose rayon fiber in Indonesia and carbon black in Egypt. Since the late 1970's, he had set up 15 companies in South and Southeast Asia and the Middle East.
        Earlier this year, Mr. Birla signed agreements with the AT&T Corporation to provide telephone and cellular services in India.
        Apart from business and finance, Mr. Birla was interested in painting, music and badminton. Besides his son, he is survived by his wife, Rajashree, and a daughter, Vasavadatta.
      