
        Harry Hurwitz, a film director, screenwriter and painter, died on Sept. 21 at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 57.
        He died of heart failure while awaiting a heart transplant, said Dr. Raphael  J. Osheroff, a friend.
        Mr. Hurwitz's best-known film was "The Projectionist" (1971), a comic fantasy starring Chuck McCann as a movie projectionist who lived a dream life as the amazing Captain Flash. The movie was written, produced and directed by Mr. Hurwitz, who appeared in the role of the Friendly Usher. In a reversal of the usual order, the fantasy scenes in the film were in black and white and the others in color.
        Although Mr. Hurwitz was later to work in Hollywood directing films for other producers, he considered himself a maverick and insisted, "I haven't made my movies the easy way." A dedicated film buff, he specialized in making movies about the movies. One of them was "The Eternal Tramp," a television documentary  about Charles Chaplin that Gloria Swanson narrated.
        Mr. Hurwitz's other film credits as director, writer or producer include "Richard" (1972), a satire about Richard Nixon starring Mickey Rooney and John Carradine); "The Comeback Trail" (1974), which also starred Mr. McCann; "Safari  3000" (1982); "The Big Score" (1983) and "That's Adequate," about a fictitious studio called Adequate Pictures.
        He was one of five screenwriters for "Under the Rainbow," a movie about the filming of "The Wizard of Oz." Under the pseudonym Harry Tampa, he also wrote what he called "disco vampire movies."
        As a painter, Mr. Hurwitz has work in the permanent collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the National Gallery of Art and the Corcoran Gallery in Washington and the Philadelphia Museum of Fine Art. He taught painting, drawing, film history and film esthetics at various colleges and universities.
        Mr. Hurwitz was born in New York City and was a graduate of the High School of Music and Art and New York University.
        He is survived by his wife, Joy, and three sons.
      