
        Robert H. Finch, who managed Richard Nixon's 1960 Presidential campaign and later served as his Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, died of a heart  attack today. He was 70.
        After managing Mr. Nixon's unsuccessful 1960 Presidential campaign, Mr. Finch served from 1967 to 1969 as Lieutenant Governor of California and then became H.E.W. Secretary in the first Nixon cabinet, in 1969.
        Mr. Finch later became Presidential counselor, but he left the Nixon Administration and returned to Southern California to practice law, disappointed that he had been frozen out of Mr. Nixon's inner circle by H. R. Haldeman, John  Ehrlichman and others who later became central figures in the Watergate scandal.
        Mr. Finch was never implicated in the scandal, but his close association with Mr. Nixon effectively ended his political career. He sought the Republican nomination for the Senate in 1976, but lost the primary to S. I. Hayakawa.
        Mr. Finch ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 1952 and 1954. In 1956, he was elected chairman of the Los Angeles County Republican Central Committee.
        In 1958, he became administrative assistant to Mr. Nixon, who was then Vice President, and went on to manage Mr. Nixon's 1960 campaign for President, which  he lost to John F. Kennedy.
        Mr. Finch recommended against Mr. Nixon undertaking his ill-fated 1962 campaign for Governor of California, but Mr. Finch was a loyal aide once Mr. Nixon entered the race. In 1964, he directed the actor George Murphy's successful campaign for the United States Senate.
        Two years later, Mr. Finch ran for Lieutenant Governor and was swept into office in the Republican tide led by Ronald Reagan, who won the Governorship.
        A pragmatic middle-of-the-road Republican, Mr. Finch was not close to the conservative Mr. Reagan, and he eagerly accepted Mr. Nixon's bid to join his cabinet in 1969, resigning halfway through his four-year term as Lieutenant Governor.
        His political star started to dim immediately. He was widely criticized as an ineffective H.E.W. Secretary and was eased out of that high-profile post with the appointment as Presidential counselor, where he was overshadowed by Mr. Haldeman and Mr. Ehrlichman.
        Although Mr. Finch was never involved in the Watergate scandal -- having been frozen out of the inner circle before it began -- his reputation was nonetheless tarnished.
        "I couldn't run for dogcatcher without it turning into a referendum on Watergate," he said in a 1974 interview. "But at least I don't have any trouble  sleeping at night."
        Mr. Finch married the former Carol Crothers in 1946. They had four children,  Maureen, Kevin, Priscella and Cathleen.
      