
        Robert Elliott Hall, a New York obstetrician and psychiatrist who helped lead the campaign that resulted in the 1970 New York State abortion statute, at that time the country's most liberal, died Oct. 6 in Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 70 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Hall was a strong advocate for women's reproductive rights, often appearing before state, national and international bodies concerned with population growth, birth control and abortion. When the issue became a focus of public debate in the 1960's, he founded several groups aimed at changing New York's prohibitive abortion law.
        As the director of the birth-control clinic at Presbyterian Hospital, he considered the existing restrictions "inhumane and unrealistic." He contended that respectable doctors and hospitals were already performing many "therapeutic" abortions that were technically illegal.
        As support for change grew, he testified before committees and debated the issue on television. The Legislature amended the state's penal law in 1970.
        Dr. Hall was considered a turncoat by some fellow advocates when he championed strict residency requirements for obstetricians likely to perform the procedure and a ban on abortions out of the hospital. In turn, he criticized some colleagues for making abortions "as difficult as they can": too expensive, too burdensome and too restrictive.
        Dr. Hall was born in Pittsburgh and received his M.D. from Columbia University in 1947. He was a captain in the Air Force in postwar Germany.
        As a physician and teacher, Dr. Hall was associated with Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center and Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons from 1948 until 1976. After completing his residency as a psychiatrist that year at St. Luke's Hospital, he practiced psychiatry out of his home and in Stamford, Conn., until shortly before his death.
        He wrote many scientific papers, but also wrote for the general reader, including a popular book, "Nine Months' Reading -- A Medical Guide for Pregnant Women" (Doubleday, 1963).
        Dr. Hall is survived by his wife, Toni Heller Hall; four children from a previous marriage, Suzette, Rachel, Anthony and Timothy; a sister, Rachel Higgins, and four grandchildren.
      