
        Wilbur Hugh Ferry, a liberal, iconoclastic foundation executive, died on Saturday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 84.
        He had Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Carol Bernstein Ferry.
        Mr. Ferry, known professionally as W. H. Ferry, was on the board of the DJB  Foundation, based in Scarsdale, from 1970 to his death. He was also vice president of the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, a research organization based in Santa Barbara, Calif., from 1954 to 1969.
        Victor S. Navasky, publisher of the liberal weekly The Nation, said Mr. Ferry was "a radical philanthropist, a free spirit, letter-writer and troublemaker."
        He said Mr. Ferry and Carol Ferry, whom he married in 1973, financed through  DJB Foundation grants and direct personal contributions "things that no one else would fund because they were too radical for conventional foundations." Recipients ranging from "little groups of native Americans" to people doing research into the Alger Hiss case, he said.
        Over the years, the foundation's and the couple's interests also included nuclear disarmament and issues related to peace and racial justice. Mr. Ferry's  other concerns included the effect of technology on society.
        He was the second-in-command of the Santa Barbara center and oversaw operations that included research, the publishing of a magazine and conferences  of experts.
        An old friend, Vincent McGee, said yesterday that, as a liberal, Mr. Ferry believed until his death "that America was a racist society that wouldn't willingly integrate, in the deepest sense." Mr. McGee said Mr. Ferry thought that racial justice was essential but that white people who had the power talked about it but did not do much about it.
        Mr. Ferry was born in Detroit, the son of an automotive executive. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1932 and worked in various fields before 1954.
        His 1937 marriage, to Jolyne Marie Gillier, ended in divorce.
        Besides his wife, his survivors include three daughters, Denise La Tourelle and Robin Ferry, both of Santa Barbara, and Fay Christiansen of Hanover, N.H.; a son, Lucian, of Ontario; two stepchildren, Katherine Andre of Eliot, Maine, and  John Bernstein of Guilford, Vt., and 10 grandchildren.
      