
        William J. Koslo, the Diamond International chief executive officer who negotiated the company's $400 million sale to Sir James Goldsmith in 1982, died  on Thursday at Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 65 and lived in Garden City, L.I.
        His son William Jr. said the cause was a stroke.
        Mr. Koslo, a former salesman, had been president and chief executive of Diamond, a diversified forest products company, for three years when Sir James,  the British-French corporate raider, came calling in 1980.
        Having quietly acquired 6 percent of Diamond's stock, Sir James, who had assigned Diamond the code name "New New World" on a secret list of takeover targets, made an unsolicited offer to increase his stake to 40 percent in the company, which had extensive timber holdings, pulp, paper, printing and packaging operations and an array of products, from Bee playing cards to Vanity  Fair toilet paper.
        Although Sir James's offer of $45 a share represented a 38 percent premium, Mr. Koslo, describing the offer as "grossly inadequate," went shopping for another buyer.
        When none came forward, he cut a deal that allowed Sir James's company, Generale Occidentale, to buy Diamond in 1982.
        For Mr. Koslo, who remained with the company for three more years, the sale capped an unlikely climb up to corporate prominence.
        When he was growing up in Mount Carmel, Pa., the son of second-generation Lithuanian immigrants, his prospects seemed decidedly grim. His father died when Mr. Koslo was a toddler and his mother supported the family by operating a small grocery store.
        But Mr. Koslo, who changed his name from the original Kazlauskas in 1960, had a couple of personal advantages. He was a good student and a terrific football player, a 6-foot, 200-pound offensive lineman with an unyielding drive that caught the eye of a Fordham assistant coach named Vince Lombardi, who later led  the Green Bay Packers to glory in the National Football League.
        Mr. Koslo, who attended Fordham on a football scholarship, earned his keep. In his senior season the team went 8-1, losing only to a powerful Yale team.
        After graduating in 1951, he joined the Marines and worked a couple of years  as a high school science teacher and football coach before joining what became Diamond in 1955.
        The New York-based company, known at the time as U.S. Printing and Lithograph, expanded considerably under its chairman, William H. Walters, as Mr. Koslo, who began as a salesman peddling packaging to companies like the Rhinegold Brewery in Brooklyn, moved steadily into higher positions.
        In 1976, as executive vice president, Mr. Koslo served seven days in a Federal jail after he and more than 40 paperboard industry executives pleaded no contest to charges of participating in a vast price-fixing scheme organized by R. Harper Brown, the president of the Container Corporation of America, the industry giant.
        "He was the fall guy, not the company point man," his son William Jr., said yesterday, underlining a theme that seemed obvious enough at the time: with the  exception of Mr. Brown, the executives convicted in the scheme tended to be lower level vice presidents who loyally refused to implicate their superiors.
        The next year, Mr. Koslo was chosen as president to replace Richard Walters,  who had succeeded his father in that office in 1970.
        In addition to his son, of Darien, Conn., Mr. Koslo is survived by his wife,  Margaret; a daughter, Karen Bingham of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I.; two other sons, Mark and Patrick, both of Garden City, and six grandchildren.
      