
        John Walker 3d, the patrician art connoisseur who as chief curator and then director of the National Gallery of Art in Washington shaped the museum into a world-class institution, died on Sunday at his home near Arundel in Sussex, England. He was 88 and had lived in England since his retirement from the gallery in 1969.
        Mr. Walker was a member of a ground-breaking generation of museum professionals who, spurred by a wide-ranging interest in art old and new, left an indelible stamp on this country's art institutions, often inventing them from scratch.
        Like many of his peers, he attended Harvard University, studying art history and museum practices in a fabled seminar of Prof. Paul J. Sachs. While there, he formed with Philip Johnson, Lincoln Kirstein and Edward M. M. Warburg the Society for Contemporary Art, whose exhibitions of art and design paved the way  for museums and institutes of modern and contemporary art around the country for decades to come.
        But Mr. Walker soon turned from an interest in modern art to a passion for Old Master painting. After graduating from Harvard in 1930, he spent six years studying with Bernard Berenson, the doyen of connoisseurs, at his villa outside  Florence. Mr. Walker then worked for several years in the department of fine arts at the American Academy in Rome.
        Arriving in Washington in 1939, Mr. Walker was more or less present at the founding of the National Gallery. It had been established by an act of Congress  in 1937 at the urging of Andrew W. Mellon, the Pittsburgh steel magnate, and was built on the Washington Mall over the next four years.
        Working with the gallery's first director, David E. Finley, Mr. Walker had a  hand in the museum's layout and helped oversee the construction of its great Romanizing building, designed by John Russell Pope, which remains one of the outstanding museum structures in the country. Mr. Walker also oversaw the installation of the gallery's original collection, a group of 38 paintings from  the collections of Samuel H. Kress and Andrew Mellon that included works by Raphael, Rembrandt and Titian that Mellon had purchased from the Hermitage in Leningrad.
        Those paintings occupied only a few galleries of the National Gallery's new building, which opened in 1941. Over the next three decades, Mr. Walker worked assiduously to fill the remainder with the best art he could find.
        "His great achievement was in persuading all these American collectors to give their collections to the nation," said Everett Fahy, the John Pope-Hennessy Chairman of European painting at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, who was reached by telephone yesterday. "These enormous collections, which would have been given to their local museums, went instead to Washington. They found his argument irresistible. Exhibitions come and go. It's the great art that remains."
        J. Carter Brown, former director of the National Gallery and Mr. Walker's immediate successor, described him as the "unsung hero" of the museum, and "the  art brains behind it."
        Born in Pittsburgh in 1906, Mr. Walker was the only son of wealthy parents and was a childhood friend of Andrew Mellon's son, Paul. A self-described "galloping Anglophile," he married Lady Margaret Drummond, daughter of the Earl  of Perth, in 1937. Mr. Walker's background gave him access to many of the wealthy patrons whose gifts of art or money turned his institution from a concept into one of the preeminent picture galleries of the world.
        He made the final selections from Samuel Kress's collection of Renaissance art and helped persuade several other collectors, including Joseph A. Weidner, Lessing J. Rosenwald and Chester Dale, as well as Paul Mellon and his sister, Ailsa Mellon Bruce, to donate the best of their holdings to the museum. Among the many paintings he acquired for the National Gallery was Leonardo da Vinci's  portrait of Ginevra de' Benci.
        One of his most difficult tasks was landing Chester Dale's great collection of 19th- and early-20th-century French paintings. According to Mr. Brown, Mr. Walker said that the wooing of Dale, a mercurial stockbroker, was so trying that it turned his hair white and left him on tranquilizers for the rest of his  life. Besides leaving the museum his paintings in his will, Dale surprised Mr. Walker by leaving him a sum of money. With it Mr. Walker purchased a summer home in Fishers Island, N.Y. and named it Will O' Dale.
        After retirement, he wrote books on Turner, Constable and Whistler and a frank memoir titled "Self-Portrait With Donors." He worked as an adviser to several English cultural institutions, including the National Trust, the London  Library and the Glyndebourne Opera.
        Mr. Brown also credited Mr. Walker with an important role in the realization  of the National Gallery's East Building, designed by I. M. Pei and completed in  1978. "He was very instrumental in getting Mr. Mellon focused on the opportunity of the building and nailing down the land for it," Mr. Brown said. "He loved being a host. I used to ride up in the elevator with him and he'd start talking  to the visitors and tell them how happy he was to have them there."
        Mr. Walker's wife died in 1987, and his son, John, died in 1986. He is survived by his daughter, Gillian, wife of the documentary film maker Albert Maysles, and three grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
      