
        Walter C. Williams, a pioneering aerospace engineer whose 50-year career helped to propel the country into the jet age and the era of manned space exploration, died on Oct. 7 at his home in Tarzana, Calif. He was 76.
        He suffered a brief illness, according to the Dryden Flight Research Center in Edwards, Calif., of which he was the founding director.
        America's early astronauts' confidence in Mr. Williams's solid performance provided some of the lift as they rode their rockets into orbit.
        Mr. Williams worked as a project engineer on piston-driven fighter aircraft in World War II. He then moved on to the rocket-powered X-1 research craft and in the early 1960's oversaw the missions of Project Mercury, the first American  manned space flights. He retired in 1982 as chief engineer of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration at its headquarters in Washington, but he continued off and on as a consultant to NASA panels into the 1990's.
        Walter Charles Wilson was born in New Orleans and built model airplanes as a  boy. He graduated from Louisiana State University with a degree in aeronautical  engineering in 1939, and joined the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, NASA's forerunner, the next year.  His assignment was to improve the designs of  high-speed fighters like the P-47 and P-51.
        By 1946, he headed an engineering team sent to what is now Edwards Air Force  Base in California to prepare for supersonic research flights. Then, at what became the Dryden center, he directed various research programs, including the first flight at twice the speed of sound and the start of the X-15 hypersonic project.
        As operations director of Project Mercury at NASA's spaceflight center in Houston, he was responsible for factory check-out of spacecraft and equipment, launching preparations, launching and inflight activities, recovery operations and post-flight analysis -- as well as planning for future flights.
        He left NASA in 1964 for the vehicle systems division of Aerospace Corporation, a nonprofit concern advising the Air Force on missile and space projects. He returned to NASA in 1975.
        Mr. Williams is survived by his wife, Helen Manning Williams; two sons, Charles M., of Houston, and Howard L., of Phoenix; a daughter, Elizabeth Ann Powell of Redmond, Calif., and nine grandchildren.
      