
        John Gardner, who kept century-old boat-building skills alive as the associate curator of small craft at the Mystic Seaport Museum in Connecticut, died yesterday at his daughter's home in Haverhill, Mass. He was 90 and retired two months ago.
        Mr. Gardner, as founder and longtime director of the boat-building classes at the museum, taught thousands of people to build small wood boats with 19th-century methods. A venerated figure, he was known to his colleagues for his encyclopedic knowledge of world history and his extensive vocabulary. But for all his erudition, nothing Mr. Gardner learned from school or from his voluminous reading made as much impression as the simple lessons of coastal craftsmanship he learned as a boy in Calais, Me.
        Like generations of New Englanders before them, his father and grandfather made boats for their personal use, cutting the wood for their construction at the same time that they cut firewood for the winter.
        By the time he went to college, to the Maine Normal School, Mr. Gardner had acquired the skills that he would pass on.
        For all that, it took a while for Mr. Gardner to return to his life's calling. Initially intending a career as a teacher, he received a master's from Teachers College at Columbia University in 1932, but was almost immediately distracted by the Depression, his populist leanings and the experience of hobnobbing with radical socialists in Greenwich Village coffeehouses.
        He spent the rest of the 30's as a full-time radical, participating in a march on Washington, picketing the White House and working as a labor organizer for the Congress of Industrial Organizations.
        He took a job as a professional boat builder in Marblehead, Mass., in 1940 and later worked in a boatyard in Quincy, Mass., turning out picket boats and other craft for World War II.
        He found his first major platform for popularizing small boats when he joined The Maine Coast Fisherman magazine, now called National Fisherman, in 1940 as technical editor. He held that position for the rest of his life.
        By 1969, when he joined the Mystic museum, he had a large and devoted following. When he began his boat-building classes the next year, they were an almost instant success, drawing afficionados who drove three hours or more to learn how to use rudimentary tools, like wooden planes, spokeshaves, drawknives, the adz and the broadax to build peapods, Swampscott dories, Rushtons and Whitehalls.
        An expert in the history of small boats, Mr. Gardner built a copy of the racing boat given Lafayette on a tour of the United States in the 1820's.
        Mr. Gardner, who wrote books on boat building, also believed that museums should not be static repositories. Under his prodding, Mystic started a livery where visitors can rent historic boats and copies.
        But for all his devotion to boat building, Mr. Gardner's interest in boats ended at the water's edge. When a colleague once asked him out for a sail, Mr. Gardner told him that he had not been on the water in 25 years and had no intention of going again.
        Besides his daughter, Jean, he is survived by two sisters, Sally Oppedisano and Mary Richards, both of Portland, Me. Mr. Gardner's wife, Beatrice, died in 1990.
      