
        Henry P. Smith 3d, who served in the House of Representatives for 10 years, representing the 36th District in Niagara and Erie Counties in western New York, died on Sunday in Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 85 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Smith, a Republican, withstood the Johnson Democratic landslide and was elected in 1964 to the first of five terms. His turbulent decade in the House spanned the student protests against the Vietnam War and the Watergate scandal.
        In one of his first votes, in 1965, he departed from the conservative position that would shape his record: he was the only House member to vote against a bill to establish criminal penalties for people who destroyed their military draft cards. Mr. Smith said that even though he supported the objectives of the bill, he believed its penalties were too harsh.
        In 1973, he provided an essential vote on the House Judiciary Committee, giving reporters the right to refuse to reveal sources of information.
        As the third-ranking Republican member of the committee, Mr. Smith also voted against impeaching President Nixon, arguing that the evidence against him was not strong enough. Shortly after the vote, he announced that he would not run for re-election.
        At the time, he called the Watergate scandal "stupid" and said he "hated to belong to a stupid party."
        A tall, lanky politician with silver hair and a deep, resonant voice, Mr. Smith graduated from Dartmouth College and the Cornell University Law School. After serving as Mayor of North Tonawanda, the suburb of Buffalo where he grew up, he was appointed a surrogate and family court judge by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller.
        He then became the Niagara County Republican chairman before running for the House. On his retirement, he was appointed the United States chairman of the International Joint Commission, United States and Canada, by President Gerald R. Ford, and he held the position until 1978.
        In 1981, he became chairman of the Association to Unite the Democracies.
        He is survived by his wife, Helen; three daughters, Susan McConnell and Christiana Hays of Washington, and Lucinda Shave, of Apopka, Fla.; a brother, John Belding, of West Yarmouth, Mass., and six grandchildren.
      