
        Stanley B. Gertz, a businessman and philanthropist known for his efforts to revitalize Jamaica, Queens, where his family operated its flagship Gertz department store for many years, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Greenwich Village. Mr. Gertz, who lived in Manhattan and in Locust Valley, L.I., was 74.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his wife, Charlotte, said.
        Mr. Gertz, whose grandfather Benjamin, a Russian immigrant, founded the family business with a stationery store on Jamaica Avenue in 1918, devoted much of his life to his family's real estate interests.
        In addition to serving as president of the Gertz family enterprises, including real estate development and management companies, Mr. Gertz was a co-founder, the treasurer and a director of the Greater Jamaica Development Corporation from its inception in 1967 until his death.
        "Our grandfather believed in Jamaica, and so do we," Mr. Gertz said a few years ago. "We grew up here, we worked here, our parents and grandparents struggled here. People said we were crazy to stay. But we stayed, and we're determined to make it work."
        The Greater Jamaica Development Corporation is a nonprofit private organization established to redevelop a square mile of Jamaica, bounded by Hillside Avenue, Liberty Avenue, Merrick Boulevard and the Van Wyck Expressway. The area, once the city's third largest shopping district, had fallen into decline in the 1970's, when it was encircled by vast new shopping malls in Brooklyn, Queens and Nassau County.
        Mr. Gertz was instrumental in the campaigns to situate York College in Jamaica, to extend subway service in the area and to re-establish the family's former flagship department store as an office building and retail center that accommodates 2,000 workers. The Gertz department store was sold to Allied Stores in 1941 and closed in 1981.
        Mr. Gertz, who was involved in many civic and philanthropic activities, served for a decade as chairman of the board of Jamaica Hospital, where the Gertz Pavilion for Ambulatory Care was named for his family in recognition of its support.
        Mr. Gertz was born in Jamaica. He received a bachelor's degree from Union College in 1940 and a law degree from Harvard two years later.
        Besides his wife, the former Charlotte Kess Pickman, Mr. Gertz is survived by Jeffrey, of Hartford -- a son by Mr. Gertz's first marriage, which ended in divorce, to Irma Isserman -- and by three grandchildren.
      