
        Don Cherry, one of the most lyrical and important jazz trumpeters, died on Thursday at the home of his stepdaughter, Neneh Cherry, near Malaga, Spain. He was 58.
        The cause was liver failure caused by hepatitis, said his wife, Moki.
        Mr. Cherry used a pocket cornet -- a shrunken cornet -- to get an open, quiet sound. He managed emotionally charged statements without force, and his playing radiated fragility, as if he had come to his style without study.
        He began his career studying the works of the trumpeter Fats Navarro, and his playing was often a lyrical paraphrase of be-bop ideas without a wasted note. By the end of his life, his music incorporated funk and ethnic musics from around the world, fusing his avant-garde vocabulary with folk and pop music. In describing his studies to the drummer Art Taylor for the book "Notes and Tones"  (Da Capo Press, 1993), Mr. Cherry said, "First it was form, then phrasing and then sound, always sound."
        Mr. Cherry was a product of the fertile postwar be-bop scene in Los Angeles in the 1940's. He came from a musical environment, with a grandmother who played piano accompaniment for silent movies, a mother who played piano at home and a father who owned a music club in Tulsa. His father also worked as a bartender at the Plantation Club, a leading jazz club, in the Watts section of Los Angeles.
        At Jefferson High School, Mr. Cherry studied with Samuel Brown, a respected teacher who had taught the jazz musicians Wardell Gray, Frank Morgan, Hampton Hawes and Art Farmer. The Los Angeles of his youth produced or was home to many  jazz musicians who helped to set the standard for experimentation in the next few decades, including Charles Mingus, Scott LaFaro, Gary Peacock, Eric Dolphy,  Charlie Haden and Paul Bley.
        By 1954, Mr. Cherry, still a teen-ager, was playing professionally, a career  course his father tried to stop. Two years later, Mr. Cherry met Ornette Coleman, a meeting that changed the course of jazz history.
        Mr. Cherry, along with the drummer Billy Higgins (whom Mr. Cherry met when both were high school students in a truant-detention school) and a tenor saxophonist, James Clay, were drawn to Mr. Coleman's ideas and began rehearsing  regularly with him. At the same time, Mr. Cherry was performing in the area, working with the intermission band at the Lighthouse, which was then the most famous jazz club in Los Angeles.
        In 1958, Mr. Cherry and Mr. Coleman, along with the pianist Paul Bley (who was the leader of the group), the bassist Charlie Haden and the drummer Mr. Higgins began an engagement at the Hillcrest Club; live recordings of some of those sessions show the band playing Mr. Coleman's tunes with authority and a sense of experimentation.
        In February 1958, Mr. Coleman began his recording career with "Something Else," an album that included Mr. Cherry and Mr. Higgins. The pianist John Lewis arranged for the group to join Atlantic Records, where it recorded the album "The Shape of Jazz to Come" a year later. That same year, the group spent two and a half months at the Five Spot in New York, a stay that was meant to last only two weeks. Mr. Coleman's music split the jazz world between those who believed in his rewriting of jazz orthodoxy and those who didn't.
        The importance of Mr. Coleman's recordings with Mr. Cherry cannot be overestimated. The rhythmic relationship between the two musicians, loose and flexible yet completely empathetic, took jazz modernists away from an emphasis on overt discipline and precise detailing. And both Mr. Cherry and Mr. Coleman drew on a huge variety of sources for their melodies. They knew be-bop, but even Mexican melodies showed up in their improvisations, along with country blues lines. This added a rural, folk element to jazz.
        Mr. Cherry first recorded under his own name in 1960, on an album called "The Avant Guarde"; John Coltrane was a sideman. He recorded infrequently in the next few years, but began a series of associations that had him collaborating with nearly every important player in the mushrooming avant-garde of the time.
        In 1962, he began an association with the saxophonist Sonny Rollins that included concert appearances around the world and recordings; he also recorded with the saxophonist Steve Lacy. That year Mr. Cherry also helped form the New York Contemporary Five with the saxophonists Archie Shepp and John Tchicai. By 1964, Mr. Cherry had begun work with the saxophonist Albert Ayler.
        In 1964, after touring Europe, Mr. Cherry went to Paris. He formed a band of  international musicians there that included the tenor saxophonist Gato Barbieri. A year later, the band came back to New York City, where it recorded what is often considered Mr. Cherry's masterpiece, "Complete Communion," for Blue Note records, beginning a short association with the label.
        In the mid-60's, Mr. Cherry began experimenting with all sorts of music, and  for the rest of his career he wandered internationally. He began playing duets with the drummer Ed Blackwell, which he continued until the 1980's.
        In the 70's, he taught at Dartmouth College, and lived not only in Europe but also in the Middle East, all the while absorbing local music. In 1973, he recorded the "Relativity Suite," with the Jazz Composers' Orchestra, which included a string section. He recorded with Lou Reed, the singer and guitarist,  and took part in the group Codona, with Nana Vasconcelos and Collin Walcott.
        Mr. Cherry recorded a funk-and-ethnic album in Paris and also performed with  the band Old and New Dreams, a revival of Ornette Coleman's acoustic quartet with the saxophonist Dewey Redman in Mr. Coleman's place. In 1984, he founded the group Nu, which included the saxophonist Carlos Ward and Mr. Vasconcelos. He continued to make recordings into the 90's.
        In addition to his wife, of New York City, and his stepdaughter, he is survived by his sons Jan and David, of Los Angeles; Eagle Eye, of New York; Christian, of Copenhagen, and his mother, Daisy McKee of Los Angeles.
      