
        Alex Rosen, the first dean of the reorganized Graduate School of Social Work  at New York University, who also developed outreach programs and improved health care services on the Lower East Side, died on Tuesday at his winter home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 80 and also lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Rosen retired in 1981 as professor emeritus of preventive medicine, with emphasis on community medicine, at the N.Y.U. School of Medicine. He held the concurrent position of director of urban health affairs at N.Y.U. Medical Center.
        The university divided its Graduate School of Public Administration and Social Service into two separate entities in 1960 and put Dr. Rosen in charge of the new Graduate School of Social Work. He remained dean until 1970, when he was named a professor and director at the medical center.
        His urban health unit developed new community programs to improve health-care services as well as combined M.D.-Ph.D. curriculums for students of medicine, psychology, law, public administration and social work. Attending graduate students fanned out to health and welfare agencies on the Lower East Side to assist patients and clients.
        Born in Brooklyn, Dr. Rosen graduated from N.Y.U. He received a master's degree from the New York Graduate School of Social Work at Columbia University and a Ph.D. in human relations at N.Y.U.
        He taught at the University of Vermont, Yeshiva University, Pennsylvania State University and Cornell University. At the time of his appointment at N.Y.U. in 1960 he was directing a research project on intergroup relations at Columbia.
        He contributed articles to professional journals, and with John P. Dean of Cornell wrote "A Manual of Intergroup Relations" (University of Chicago Press, 1956). The book received an Annisfield-Wolf Award of the Saturday Review of Literature as the year's best book on race relations.
        Dr. Rosen is survived by his wife of 56 years, Rose Shenderoff Rosen; two sons, Fred and Robert, both of Manhattan; a sister, Rose Feldon of Los Angeles,  and two grandsons.
      