
        Ernest Jarvis, who began his career as a 14-year-old union electrician and ended it 64 years later as head of his own contracting company, died on Tuesday  at a nursing home in Morristown, N.J. He was 92 and had outlived many of his most famous projects, from the illuminated West Side Highway in Manhattan to a string of Loews movie palaces across the country.
        Mr. Jarvis, who bore such a striking resemblance to his second cousin, Jacob  Javits, that the Senator's bodyguards were forever being fooled, could be a case study of the social and economic saga of 20th-century America.
        His father, Louis, an immigrant from Russia who changed the family name from the original Hebrew, settled in Newark, where he went to work for a hat factory  and helped organize the work force at a time when union organizing was not an especially genteel activity: He almost went to jail after the factory happened to burn down.
        Mr. Jarvis himself obtained his first electrician's union card in Newark in 1917, and maintained it long after he became a senior executive at the old Hoffman & Elias electrical company, which operated in some pretty tough times. As his son Michael, also an electrical contractor, recalled yesterday, when the  union electricians showed up for a job, "the bulges under their coats weren't sandwiches."
        Despite the security of union work, Mr. Jarvis was so determined to improve himself that, although he lacked academic credentials for admission, he virtually camped out at the dean's office at Columbia University until he was accepted into its engineering school in 1925.
        He did well in his courses, but a lack of funds forced him to withdraw without a degree two years later. This was a galling failure for a man who prided himself on finishing everything he started, so much so that decades later, whenever asked to receive a civic award, he invariably declined, to avoid calling attention to his lack of college degree.
        Moving from union to management ranks when he joined Hoffman & Elias, Mr. Jarvis was so impressive that while still in his 20's, he was operating as chief estimator, calculating projected costs before bids are submitted for a job. He advanced the process considerably in the 1930's when he developed a unit estimating system that is the basis of procedures in use today.
        In addition to working on many theaters, including the old Roxy at Seventh Avenue and 50th Street and other movie palaces in New York as well as a number of Loews theaters across the country, Mr. Jarvis was in charge of the electrical work on the Julius Miller Highway, along the West Side of Manhattan, which is recalled as both the Depression's largest construction project and the nation's  first elevated urban highway.
        Other big projects included the Jersey City Medical Center, where Mr. Jarvis's daughter, Joyce, was the first baby born, in the Martha Hague maternity unit after it was completed in 1932.
        After leaving Hoffman & Elias in the late 1930's, he worked for other contractors, and supervised several projects, including the installation of the  Edison Memorial Light in Edison, N.J. He formed a company, Ernest Jarvis & Company, in Newark in 1940.
        Striking out on his own was a daring move given the economic times, but Mr. Jarvis had some key financial backing -- a revolving $600 loan from his mother-in-law.
        "That money went back and forth a dozen times," his son said, recalling that  every time his father would repay the loan he would need to borrow it again.
        The company, which specialized in industrial work, was eventually so successful that half a dozen branch offices were opened before Mr. Jarvis retired in 1972.
        Since then, changing entertainment patterns and urban development have doomed the Roxy and many of the other theaters he worked on. Much of the once-wondrous  West Side Highway has been torn down for safety measures. That, of course, was hardly Mr. Jarvis's fault. It was not, after all, flaws in the highway's lighting system that caused the demolition.
        Indeed, as for the quality of his work, city officials said yesterday that the memorial light Mr. Jarvis helped install in Menlo Park, at the base of a tower erected on the spot where Thomas Alva Edison invented the light bulb, has  been burning continuously since 1938.
        Mr. Jarvis's wife, Dorothy, died in 1960. In addition to his son, of Livingston, N.J., he is survived by his daughter, Joyce Hoch, of Morristown; a sister, Sylvia Margolis of Dallas, six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      