
        Emanuel Pisetzner, a retired structural engineer who helped create the underpinnings and skeletons of prestigious architectural projects from New York  to Singapore to Boston to Lyons, died on Tuesday at Rosary Hill Home, a hospice  in Thornwood, N.Y. He was 69 and lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, tumors of the bone marrow, his family said.
        Mr. Pisetzner, who teamed up with some of the world's foremost architects, had a 40-year career with the Manhattan-based consulting engineers' firm of Weiskopf & Pickworth. He joined the company in 1953, became a partner in 1960, and retired two years ago.
        With the aid of computers, structural engineers figure out the stress a structure must be able to withstand, such as its own weight, gale-force winds, severe temperature changes or earthquakes. After that, they determine the right  combination of building materials to be used, and where and how to use them.
        Among the architects relying on his calculations was I. M. Pei, who designed  the United States Holocaust Memorial in Washington and won acclaim for its exposed structural steel and twisted skylight. He also collaborated with Mr. Pei on the Raffles City complex in Singapore, featuring a 72-story hotel that bills  itself as the world's tallest. Other Pei designs Mr. Pisetzner worked on were the John F. Kennedy Memorial Library in Boston and the East Wing of the National Gallery of Art in Washington.
        For the architectural firm of Kevin Roche John Dinkeloo & Associates, he supervised the structural design of one of Connecticut's largest buildings, Union Carbide's world headquarters in Danbury, as well as Merck & Company's headquarters in Whitehouse Station, N.J., and the Central Park Zoo in Manhattan.
        He relished treating company to the story of his biggest challenge in the Central Park renovation. It was, he said, to determine how much pressure the nose of a frisky swimming polar bear might put on the Plexiglass plates of its watery confines.
        His other projects included the Credit Lyonnais Tower in Lyon, France, the Commerce Court project in Toronto, the General Foods Corporation headquarters in Rye, N.Y., L'Enfant Plaza in Washington, and the Credit Suisse Building in London.
        Mr. Pisetzner was born in Manhattan and graduated from City College with a degree in civil engineering after wartime service in the Army. He was licensed as a professional architect in 17 states and Singapore, and was a past president of the New York Association of Consulting Engineers.
        Mr. Pisetzner is survived by his wife of 46 years, Stella Martin Pisetzner; three sons, Joel, of Highland Park, N.J., Jeff, of Puyallup, Wash., and Barry, of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a daughter, Ann, of Greenwich, Conn.; two brothers, Michael, of Delray Beach, Fla., and Joseph, of Brooklyn, and a granddaughter.
        Correction:  November 27, 1995, Monday
        An obituary on Friday of Emanuel Pisetzner, the structural engineer engaged for the construction of the Holocaust Memorial in Washington, misidentified its  designer. It was James Ingo Freed of the Manhattan firm of Pei, Cobb, Freed & Partners, not I.M. Pei.
      