
        Shoppers and store clerks at a mall here ran up to the Rev. Jesse Jackson the other day asking for his autograph and squeezing close to pose for pictures. The civil rights advocate, two-time Presidential candidate and talk show host was glad to oblige as he hugged and kissed his way down the hall, the jingle jangle  of a Salvation Army bell echoing behind him.
        "We need your support," Mr. Jackson told a man who had elbowed his way through a group of people waving pens and paper. "Don't forget to vote for Jesse."
        I promise," the man said, pumping Mr. Jackson's hand. "But you mean Junior, right?"
        "That's right," Mr. Jackson replied, a proud-papa smile spreading across his  face. "Vote for Jesse Jackson Jr. for Congress."
        According to a recent Chicago Tribune poll, Mr. Jackson's oldest son and namesake is leading a crowded field of Democratic candidates in a special primary election set for next Tuesday to replace former Representative Mel Reynolds in Illinois's Second Congressional District, a diverse stretch of rich  and poor, black and white, urban and suburban. Mr. Reynolds will have to watch the election from a prison cell, having been convicted in August of having sex with an underage campaign worker.
        The general election is scheduled for Dec. 12. While the polls show that a large number of voters remain undecided and that a Jackson victory is by no means certain, winning the party primary in the heavily Democratic district that includes a large part of Chicago's South Side and several of its southern suburbs has long been a ticket to Washington.
        The stakes are high for the elder Mr. Jackson, as a parent and a politician.  His star has faded in the last few years, although it was shining blindingly bright as he walked through the mall on a campaign visit with his son. And in some ways, the special election is a referendum on Mr. Jackson and his clout, despite his insistence that his son is his own man, running his own campaign, although with fatherly advice.
        When Mr. Jackson talks about his son's campaign, his eyes twinkle.
        "He inherited my name," he said. "But he's earning a Congressional seat."
        The younger Mr. Jackson, 30, who has never held elected office, has a law degree and a master's degree in theology. He is the field director for his father's political organization, the Rainbow Coalition, and has been active as a volunteer in Democratic politics.
        If he goes to Congress, he will have defeated three much older and more experienced politicians, largely because of the accident of birth, said Robert T. Starks, a professor of political science at Northeastern Illinois University  and a supporter of one of Mr. Jackson's opponents, State Senator Alice Palmer.
        "I'm sure that at least 60 percent of Jesse Junior's poll numbers are related to his name," Mr. Starks said. "However, I think he is a very impressive young man. Still, the fact remains, being as young and as inexperienced as he is, without the name he couldn't get in the door."
        The Jackson name has been both boost and burden for the first-time candidate.
        For 30 years, the Rev. Jesse Jackson has romanced the spotlight with rhetoric and rhymes, passion and protests. He is a lightning rod, attracting love and loathing almost everywhere he goes, but especially in Chicago and its suburbs where he has spent so many of his 54 years, leading inner-city audiences in a chant of "I am somebody."
        Now, Mr. Jackson's offspring is reaping the benefits and the brickbats of his life's work.
        Beverly Sanders, a 41-year-old service representative for the telephone company, said she would vote for Jesse Jackson Jr., because "his father has been a role model and a great mentor for him."
        But Dorothy Merchant, 46, a payroll officer for a railroad company, said the  younger Mr. Jackson was too inexperienced.
        "If he was anyone else," she said, "I don't think he'd be running at this point."
        And Janet Hayes, 45, a police officer, said she was not happy with any of the candidates.
        "I really don't think any of the candidates have the interest of the people at heart," Ms. Hayes said. "Most of them are grandstanding."
        But there is little doubt that Jesse Jackson Jr. is smooth and smart, speaking in an urbane hip-hop style, mixing "What's up?" one moment with a discourse the next, complete with charts, that links joblessness and the growing "jail-industrial complex."
        The core constituency for the candidate is the 20- and 30-something crowd. The younger Mr. Jackson has also spent considerable time courting voters in high schools and community colleges across the district, registering several thousand voters along the way. His mother, Jacqueline, and siblings have also campaigned  for him.
        On the trail, he pushes his own relative youth as one of his major assets for the job of representative, arguing that Congress is ruled by seniority. As he sees it, "We need to send someone to Congress who is young enough, to stay long  enough to deliver for all of us."
        Vernon Jarrett, a former Chicago newspaper columnist and longtime civil rights advocate, said, "Jesse Junior is playing the youth card that says, give young blacks a chance."
        "You hear so much about young failures these days," Mr. Jarrett said. "A lot  of people are in the mood for elevating young black men."
        Mr. Jackson has a ready response for those who say he lacks experience.
        "They don't know Jesse Jackson Jr.," he said in an interview. "I've been a member of the National Democratic Committee for seven years. I've worked numerous Congressional campaigns around the country, and I've shaken the hand of every President since Jimmy Carter."
        Whether experience through osmosis will satisfy the voters remains to be seen.
        Up to now, the elder Mr. Jackson has kept a low profile in his son's bid for  office, content to work the telephones behind the scenes and to raise money and  support across the country. The visit to the shopping mall here last Saturday was a rare joint campaign appearance.
        "I don't want people making me the issue," the elder Mr. Jackson explained. "And you can only learn to fly if you use your own wings."
        The two men, followed by a gaggle of aides and campaign volunteers, walked slowly through the Evergreen Plaza mall. Mr. Jackson, a former college football  star, towered over his son, as they shook hands with everyone in sight.
        A man stopped one of the younger Mr. Jackson's aides and said, "I'm going to  vote for you."
        The aide told him he was not the candidate and pointed behind him. The man shook the right man's hand and again promised support.
        Then a woman walked up to the younger Mr. Jackson and said: "I'm so proud of  you. You're just like your father."
        Father and son beamed as the elder Mr. Jackson handed her a campaign button with the words, "A new generation."
      