
        John F. Collins, one of three strong postwar mayors who rebuilt Boston with a formula emulated around the country, died of pneumonia today at Vencor Hospital  here, where he had been under treatment since July. He was 76.
        During his two terms as Mayor, from 1960 to 1968, Mr. Collins oversaw a wave  of rebuilding and renovation begun in the late 1950's by his predecessor, John Hynes.
        What Collins has left us is the greatest legacy any mayor can, which is an  investment in the city for the long term," Marisa Lago, director of the Boston Redevelopment Authority, said today. "He had the vision to insure that Boston wouldn't recede into a backwater city."
        During Mr. Collins's tenure, the redevelopment authority, created by Mr. Hynes, channeled $2 billion of Federal money into renewal projects. Government Center arose from the rubble of seedy Scollay Square during the Collins administration, the Prudential Center became an anchor of the city's economic and commercial revival, and the city's dying waterfront began a new life as a business and tourist center.
        Mr. Collins also envisioned the conversion of run-down warehouses around Faneuil Hall into a bright mix of restaurants and stores. That project, Quincy Market, was begun under his successor, Kevin White.
        Not that Boston's urban renewal was regarded as universally successful. The wholesale razing of the working-class, vibrant West End to make way for high-rise apartments became its most widely criticized feature.
        Mr. Collins, a native of Boston's Roxbury section, attended city schools before enrolling in Suffolk University, where he studied law and, in 1941, graduated at the top of his class.
        Mr. Collins, a Democrat, practiced law in Roxbury before serving for several  years in the Massachusetts Legislature. Then, during a 1955 epidemic, he and his four children were all stricken with polio. The children recovered fully, but he spent 10 years in a wheelchair and later was able to walk only with the help of  crutches.
        Mr. Collins is survived by his wife, Mary Patricia Cunniff; their four children, and five grandchildren.
      