
        Junior Walker, one of popular music's premier saxophonists and leader of the  Motown group Junior Walker and the All Stars, died today of cancer at his home in Battle Creek, according to Perry Mortuary. He was 53.
        Reference books say Mr. Walker was born Autry DeWalt Jr. in Blytheville, Ark., sometime in 1942.
        He started out playing in local groups in Indiana in the mid-1950's before moving to Battle Creek and forming the All Stars. The group went on to record some of Motown's most enduring hits, including "Shotgun," "What Does It Take to  Win Your Love," "How Sweet It Is" and "These Eyes."
        "There isn't a sax player out there who didn't get something from him," said  Jimmy Vivino, whose band, Jimmy Vivino and the Black Italians opened for Walker  at the Bottom Line in New York City.
        The All Stars, which included the guitarist Willie Woods, the keyboard player Vic Thomas and the drummer James Graves, was said to have gotten its name when an enthusiastic fan jumped to his feet during a show and shouted, "These guys are all stars."
        Mr. Walker continued to tour into the 90's, sometimes with his son Autry DeWalt III backing him on drums. He had recently returned from a tour with The Four Tops, the Temptations and other Motown stars, said Mr. Woods, his friend since school days.
        "When he got back he had lost the strength in his legs," Mr. Woods said. "He  never really came back to where he could walk again."
        Never known as a great vocalist, Mr. Walker gained acclaim for his brilliant  sax solos, and some of the All Stars' best work included instrumentals. His style is credited with influencing the jazz saxophonist David Sanborn, among others.
        Mr. Vivino, who was spending Thanksgiving night at a Manhattan jazz club, said Mr. Walker was known for "his command of what the sax players call the upper register -- funky."
        Mr. Walker and Mr. Woods hooked up in South Bend, Ind., in the mid-1950's, where they formed the band Jumping Jacks.
        After moving to Battle Creek in the late 1950's they found regular work at El Grotto, a lounge credited with helping them get noticed.
        They signed with a small label that was eventually taken over by Motown, and  from the mid-1960's into the 1970's Junior Walker and the All Stars produced a string of hits, including "Come See About Me," "Hip City" and "Road Runner."
        Their later albums included "Greatest Hits," released in 1982 and "Nothing But Soul: The Singles," a 40-song collection released last year.
      