
        Israel Cohen, whose family helped develop the concept of the supermarket, died in Washington, his hometown, on Wednesday, four months after taking a medical leave of absence as chairman and chief executive of Giant Food Inc. He was 83.
        The company, based in the Washington suburb of Landover, Md., said the cause  of death was complications from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
        For more than three decades after the 1964 retirement of his father, Nehemiah M. Cohen, Israel Cohen was a leading figure in the expansion of Giant Food into a huge regional supermarket chain. The company, which had 90 stores when Nehemiah Cohen left, now has 164 from New Jersey to Virginia and annual revenue of nearly $4 billion. Almost halfof the consumers in the Washington area do their grocery shopping at a Giant Food store.
        The elder Mr. Cohen and his partner, Samuel Lehrman, opened the first Giant Food store, in Washington, during a driving snowstorm in 1936. Israel Cohen, then 24 years old, stocked the store's shelves and drove the company truck, along with his brother, Emmanuel, now deceased.
        At a time when most grocery shopping was done at small stores that specialized in meat, vegetables or canned goods, Giant Food helped pioneer large stores that offered a wide variety at low prices, making them especially attractive to cash-strapped customers during the Depression.
        Israel Cohen, known as Izzy to friends and employees alike, became president  of Giant Food in 1977 and chairman in 1978. During his tenure, the company's stores became larger and more diversified, with drug departments and gardening shops. In 1979, Giant Food became one of the first supermarket chains to introduce electronic scanning of merchandise at checkout counters and to offer ready-to-eat foods that could be reheated at home.
        Earlier this year, J. Sainsbury P.L.C., a British supermarket company, bought 17 percent of Giant Food's nonvoting class A shares, as well as all 125,000 class AL shares, which give Sainsbury the right to elect three of Giant's seven  directors. Still, Mr. Cohen remained the controlling shareholder.
        Because Sainsbury has expressed interest in buying more shares, word of Mr. Cohen's death caused Giant Food's stock to rise sharply in very active trading yesterday, on speculation that the company would ultimately be sold to Sainsbury outright. Giant Food's shares gained $2.75, to close at $34.25, on the American  Stock Exchange.
        Giant Food declined comment on the market speculation.
        Mr. Cohen is survived by a daughter, Dana, of McLean, Va.; a son, Peter, of Altamonte Springs, Fla.; a sister, Lillian Cohen Solomon of Washington, and two  grandchildren.
      