
        Dr. John Watters, a pioneer in the fight for clean needle programs to prevent the spread of AIDS, was found dead on Monday at his home in San Francisco, the coroner's office said. He was 47.
        A spokesman for the coroner said the death was being investigated as a possible drug overdose. Dr. Watters's body was found by his partner, Lesley Iura, with a syringe nearby, according to a coroner's report.
        Results of toxicology tests to determine the cause of death will be available in six to eight weeks, the spokesman said. No note was found near the  body.
        Dr. Watters was assistant adjunct professor of family and community medicine  in the Institute for Health Policy Studies at the University of California at San Francisco and director of the Urban Health Study.
        Dr. Watters strongly advocated programs that allowed drug users to exchange used needles for clean ones. He conducted studies that he said showed that needle exchanges reduced the transmission of H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, among intravenous drug users without increasing in drug addiction.
        Dr. Watters and his colleagues helped start the first needle outreach programs in San Francisco. Dr. Watters helped develop the "bleach and teach" outreach method in 1987 to get drug users to clean their syringes, a program that several other cities later instituted. At the time of his death, Dr. Watters was working with Dr. Thomas Coates, director of the Center for AIDS Prevention Studies, in San Francisco, on a new needle exchange study.
        Dr. Watters testified in several trials on behalf of people prosecuted for giving out needles. Mayor Frank Jordan approved the programs in San Francisco in 1993 under a declaration of a local state of emergency, although the needle exchanges still violate California state law.
        Dr. Watters was born in New York City and raised in Andover, Mass. He earned  three degrees in psychology, a bachelor's from Boston University, a master's from Harvard University and a doctorate from the University of Michigan, respectively.
        Dr. Watters served a fellowship for the United States Public Health Service at the National Institute on Drug Abuse from 1979 to 1981, and was acting director for the division of drug programs at the San Francisco Health Department from 1982 to 1984. He later served as director of the Urban Health Study, which was then affiliated with the Haight Ashbury Free Clinic, where he began doing research involving intravenous drug users. He joined the University  of California at San Francisco in 1989.
        Besides his partner, Ms. Iura, Dr. Watters is survived by his 8-year-old son, Jake Watters, who lived with him; his mother, Myrtle Watters, and his sister, Barbara Klisiewicz of Orrington, Me.
      