
        Arnold H. Vollmer, an engineer and landscape architect who did extensive work in the New York region over the years, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 80 and had homes on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Nantucket, Mass.
        The cause was leukemia, said his daughter, Ann Svanson.
        At his death, Mr. Vollmer was chairman emeritus of Vollmer Associates, a Manhattan-based multidisciplinary design firm whose main fields are landscape architecture, civil engineering and urban planning. He retired in 1981.
        Mr. Vollmer and his firm did much work for the New York City Parks Department over the decades. He was associated for almost half a century with Robert Moses, Parks Commissioner from 1934 to 1960 and the chairman of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority.
        Prof. Kenneth T. Jackson, the chairman of Columbia University's history department, said yesterday that "Arnold Vollmer was a 'Moses man' in the best sense of the term." He was "one of the best designers and planners on a talented team that for decades built huge projects, under Mr. Moses's supervision, across the New York metropolitan region," Professor Jackson said.
        Henry J. Stern, the current Parks Commissioner, said yesterday: "Vollmer was  an ardent defender of Moses and he did a lot for the Parks Department. And he advised parks commissioners on and off from Moses to me. He was crusty, but at the same time he was always fair and decent with people who wanted to learn."
        Mr. Vollmer was born in Washington Heights, graduated from Townsend Harris High School and studied in the 1930's at City College and at Columbia University, where he received a certificate in landscape architecture. He won the Parks Department's lifetime achievement award in 1989.
        In addition to his daughter, Anna Svanson of Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and his  wife of 53 years, the former Rebecca LaMonte -- a former Moses aide -- he is survived by two other daughters, Jane McNiff of New Fairfield, Conn. and Martha  LaFata of Webster Groves, Mo.; a son, Mark of Manhattan; three granddaughters, and a sister, Ruth Maitland of Drake, Colo.
      