
        Frank M. Hammond, an umpire whose booming voice and flamboyant style earned him a reputation for controlling a tennis match better than anyone else, died Thursday at the St. Elizabeth's nursing home on Staten Island. He was 66.
        The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, said a friend, Eugene L. Scott, the editor and publisher of Tennis Week magazine.
        At a time when most tennis umpires were volunteers whose competence was routinely questioned, Mr. Hammond became the sport's first full-time professional umpire and linesman in the 1970's. Mr. Hammond was widely considered by players to be the most reliable umpire in tennis, and his services were often requested at matches in the United States, Italy, Australia and England. He had a long association with the United States Open.
        Among tennis fans, Mr. Hammond's style made him almost as popular as the players: His nose would almost touch the court as he made a call as a linesman,  and when umpiring he would lean forward from the chair to get a clearer view. At the United States Open in 1980, fans came seeking his autograph while he relaxed in the referees' tent.
        Part of Mr. Hammond's fame resulted from an uncharacteristic incident at the  1979 United States Open, when he lost control of a match between Ilie Nastase and John McEnroe.
        Mr. Hammond disqualified Mr. Nastase in the fourth set for stalling. His exchanges with the players were thought to have contributed to a near riot in the audience. As spectators booed for 17 minutes, some ran onto the court and fights broke out in the crowd. Mr. Hammond was replaced after being overruled by tournament officials. Mr. McEnroe, who went on to win, said after the match that Mr. Hammond's officiating style, which frequently relied on spectator involvement, may have encouraged the fans to misbehave.
        Mr. Hammond was born in Manhattan and started his tennis career at the age of 15 when he began calling lines. It was on the service line, the most difficult to call because of the speed of the ball, that he earned his initial fame. Players sometimes asked the referee to remove a service linesman so Mr. Hammond  could take over.
        In the "Modern Encyclopedia of Tennis" by Bud Collins, Mr. Hammond, who stopped officiating in the late 1980's, described his umpiring style: "I think an umpire is very much like a conductor. Without being hammy, and before you can concentrate on the players, you'd better have great empathy with the people who  are paying the money to come in."
        He is survived by a sister, Joan Hammond Brewster of Chicago, and a brother,  Charles Hammond of Charlotte, N.C.
      