
        Allan Taub, a New York lawyer who pleaded labor and civil rights cases in the 1930's, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 93 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan.
        Mr. Taub, who practiced law in New York for 45 years, was associated with the International Labor Defense group and the Civil Liberties Union.
        It was as a volunteer with civil liberties groups that he became involved in cases that helped to define the era: the rape case of the Scottsboro Boys, named after their Alabama town; the 1932 coal miners' strike in Harlan, Ky., and the Pippin murder trial in Tuscaloosa, Ala. In all three instances, he defied local hostility.
        The Scottsboro case began in 1931 when nine young black men were charged with raping two white women. Mr. Taub acted as co-counsel in the early stages of the case, which ended in convictions. After years of complicated proceedings, the state agreed to quash charges against some of the men in 1937. Another escaped to Michigan, which refused to extradite him, and Gov. George Wallace pardoned yet another in 1976.
        Mr. Taub was a lawyer for the strikers in Harlan in 1932 when sympathizers trucking in food for the miners' families were forced to leave by local officials. Disorders broke out, the visitors and lawyers were beset by a mob, and Mr. Taub suffered a serious head injury.
        The next year, he defended Dan Pippen Jr., an 18-year-old black youth accused of slaying a white woman. Mr. Pippen was lynched after his indictment, and Mr. Taub was threatened by a mob and had to leave under National Guard escort.
        He retired from practicing law in 1981. Until recently, he was active in the 23d Street Association, for which he served as a lawyer and, from 1966 to 1974, as managing director.
        He was born in Manhattan, and graduated from Cooper Union and Fordham Law School.
        He is survived by a daughter, Alice Farber of Philadelphia; a son, Elliot H., of Oceanside, L.I.; two sisters, Rose Perlman of Manhattan and Pearl Sashin of Pittsburgh, and two grandchildren. His wife of 53 years, Hilda Budin Taub, died last May.
      