
        John D. Stevenson, a retired Air Force major general who fought in World War  II, helped to shape the United States' air defenses during the cold war and directed space missions, died yesterday at his home in Augusta, Ga. He was 81.
        In the 1950's and 1960's, General Stevenson held several high positions in the United States' air-defense network in Europe. In the early 1950's in England, he commanded the first all-jet bomber force capable of carrying out a nuclear strike.
        From 1960 to 1963, he was director of operations of the Western defense arm  known as Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers in Europe.
        The general was outspoken in his beliefs about the Soviet Union's intentions  and how best to thwart them. Talking with journalists in 1954, he boasted of the newest type of jet fighter-bomber, the Republic F-84F Thunderstreak, then being  added to his command.
        "That is something which will give the Russians cause for consideration and possibly keep them off so that we can continue to employ diplomatic discussions  to a point when a hot war will never come about," he said.
        An editorial in the Soviet newspaper Pravda singled out General Stevenson as  a possible future war criminal. But the State Department brushed aside a Soviet  protest that the general's remarks amounted to a threat of an atomic attack.
        General Stevenson retired from the Air Force in 1966 and became an administrator in the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Early in 1967, he became director of mission operations in the space agency's Office of Manned Space Flight, a post he held until 1971.
        A native of Laramie, Wyo., General Stevenson attended the University of Wyoming and graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1937. He got his wings as a fighter pilot at the Army Air Corps Flying School in 1938. He was shot down over Sicily in 1943 and was a prisoner of the Germans until the war's  end in 1945.
        Surviving are his wife, Frances; a son, John Jr. of Brooklyn; two daughters,  Martha Olson of San Diego and Trent Colbert of Wilmington, N.C.; a stepson, Lucien Williams Jr. of Atlanta; three stepdaughters, Ann Ewell of New York City; Frances Hummell of White Hall, Md., and Sara Saron of Charlotte, N.C.; four grandchildren, and six stepgrandchildren.
      