
        Israel Goldiamond, an experimental psychologist who found novel ways to investigate animal and human behavior patterns and used this knowledge to help patients overcome unwanted habits, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Chicago. He was 76.
        The cause was a cancer of the bone marrow, multiple myeloma, the University of Chicago Medical Center said. Dr. Goldiamond had retired from the university in 1990 as professor emeritus of psychiatry and psychology.
        Dr. Goldiamond's forte was the scrupulous analysis of behavior under controlled laboratory conditions. His research generated methods of altering harmful or problematic behavior, including overeating, smoking, stammers and phobias.
        Dr. Harry Trosman, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Chicago, said Dr. Goldiamond developed approaches to help patients modify their activities in sensitively regulated, incremental steps. "He understood pathological behaviors to be modifiable by appropriate therapeutic interventions," Dr. Trosman said, "and used that information to develop systems  of reinforcements that could encourage a patient to develop a better sense of self-awareness and self-control."
        Dr. Goldiamond, born in what is now Ukraine, was brought to the United States at the age of 3. He graduated from what is now City College in New York and earned a doctorate in experimental psychology in 1955 at the University of Chicago, where he was working as a research assistant.
        He taught at Southern Illinois University and Arizona State University and directed the Institute for Behavioral Research in Silver Spring, Md., before joining the University of Chicago faculty in 1968 as a professor in the departments of psychiatry and psychology. He also directed the Behavior Analysis Laboratory at the university and joined its Committee on Human Nutrition and Nutritional Biology.
        An automobile accident in 1970 left him paralyzed from the waist down, but he was able to resume his work and became an advocate for the disabled. He was the  author of more than 60 scientific articles and served on the editorial boards of several professional journals.
        Dr. Goldiamond is survived by his wife of nearly 50 years, Betty Johnson Goldiamond; two daughters, Dr. Lisa Plymate of Tacoma, Wash., and Shana Aucsmith of Portland, Ore.; a son, Joseph, of Paris; a sister, Shulamit Resnick of West Palm Beach, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      