
        Oscar Kolin, who devoted his life to looking after the business and philanthropic interests of his aunt, Helena Rubenstein, died on Saturday at New  York Hospital. Mr. Kolin, who was 87, had been president of both her cosmetics company and the Helena Rubenstein Foundation. He lived in Manhattan and had homes in East Hampton, L.I., and Palm Beach, Fla.
        The son of one of the eight remarkable Rubenstein sisters, Mr. Kolin, who was born in Poland, spent his entire career with the far-flung cosmetics empire founded by his aunt Helena on the basis of a family face-cream formula.
        Mr. Kolin, who studied chemistry in Paris and at Columbia University, began  as a 16-year-old chemist's assistant in the Paris office, later directed the European operations and ended up as chief executive after the death of his aunt  at the age of 94 in 1965.
        The company, which was sold to Colgate for $125 million in 1973, is now part  of L'Oreal, the French conglomerate.
        After his retirement as company chairman in 1980, Mr. Kolin became president  of the Helena Rubenstein Foundation. Established by his aunt, the foundation, now headed by Mr. Kolin's daughter, Diane Moss of New York City, has assets of about $30 million and dispenses $3 million a year to education and other programs benefiting women and children.
        Mr. Kolin, an officer of the foundation since 1953, also had a wide range of  other philanthropic interests, particularly in the world of art. With his wife,  Berthe, who died in 1994, he was a collector who gave support to artists and museums, including the Tel Aviv Museum of Art.
        A fellow of Brandeis University, he was also on the boards of the Parsons School of Design, the New School, the March of Dimes and the American Committee  for the Weizmann Institute of Science.
        In addition to Mrs. Moss, Mr. Kolin is survived by another daughter, Jacqueline Herrmann and a sister, Mala Rubenstein, both of Manhattan, and three  grandchildren.
      