
        John S. Burke Jr., who was chief executive of the once-popular B. Altman & Company department store chain from 1962 until 1986, died yesterday at home in Watch Hill, R.I. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, John W. Townsend, a son-in-law, said.
        After joining the store's staff in 1946, Mr. Burke became president in 1954, succeeding his father as chief executive in 1962. He served as chairman from 1969 until 1986, when the store chain was sold by the Altman Foundation, which had owned it since the death of its founder, Benjamin Altman, in 1913.
        The 1986 sale ushered in a period of difficult times for the venerable retailing chain, whose flagship store at Fifth Avenue and 34th Street had been a landmark for shoppers since 1906. The chain was acquired in 1987 by the Hooker Corporation of Australia, which filed for bankruptcy protection in 1989. In January 1990, the chain was closed. The flagship store now houses the business,  science and industry collections of the New York Public Library.
        Mr. Burke, who attended Yale University and served in the United States Marine Corps during World War II, spent his entire business career at the store  chain.
        He was president of the Altman Foundation, which supports a variety of artistic, educational and social welfare programs in New York City, until his retirement from that post early this year. He had been a trustee of the foundation since 1948, and also served as a trustee of the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, the Canterbury School, the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation and the Roman Catholic Orphan Asylum.
        He was married to Mary Stan O'Connell, who died in 1982.
        Mr. Burke is survived by a brother, Thomas C. Burke of Watch Hill, R.I., and  Hobe Sound, Fla.; three sisters, Mary C. Burke, also of Watch Hill, Patricia B.  Debany of Bedford, N.Y., and Jane B. O'Connell of New York City; a son, John Stephen Burke 3d, of New York City, and four daughters, Kate B. Townsend and Mary Stan Burke, both of New York City, Anne B. Rathbun of Westerly, R.I., and Margo H. Burke of Watch Hill.
      