
        J. Bradbury Thompson, whose talent for graphic design and art direction left  its mark on America's books, magazines and postage stamps and influenced generations of students who studied with him at Yale University, died on Wednesday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Thompson was 84, and lived in Riverside, Conn.
        Mr. Thompson's work extended to such limited-edition books as a masterly lectern Bible, Stephen Crane's "Red Badge of Courage" and Herman Melville's "Typee"; to art and fashion magazines like Art News and Mademoiselle, and to the design of more than 120 United States postage stamps devoted to subjects like architecture, belles-lettres and history.
        Because Mr. Thompson was the design coordinator of the Citizens Stamp Advisory Committee from 1969 to 1978, his taste and influence extended beyond those stamps he created himself. These included 16 Christmas Stamps from Old Master paintings in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the "Love" series stamp with the word "Love" stacked five high and each "v" replaced by a heart, and United States Bicentennial stamps honoring George Washington, John Paul Jones and the Marquis de Lafayette.
        Mr. Thompson's bold experiments with typography, photographic reproduction and color combined the best of traditional design and modernism. His strong sense of design, coupled with his belief in the power of the printed word, characterized his teaching to four decades of students at Yale, where he was a visiting professor of graphic arts from 1956 until ill health forced him to curtail his work there this year.
        Many of Mr. Thompson's students went on to become art directors for well-known magazines, newspapers and corporations.
        His artistic autobiography, "The Art of Graphic Design," was published by Yale University Press in 1988. It won the Art Libraries Society of North America's George Wittenborn Memorial Award as best art book of the year and was  praised in The New York Times Book Review as a book in which "art and design are gloriously and daringly mixed."
        Mr. Thompson, who was born in 1911 in Topeka, Kan., embarked on his career by designing yearbooks at Topeka High School and continued at Washburn College in Topeka. While working toward a bachelor's degree in economics in 1934, he was the editor and designer of the yearbook.
        When he sent off copies of his work to Conde Nast's art director, he was encouraged to come East. Mr. Thompson arrived in New York City in 1938, and before long he was designing an official catalogue for the 1939-40 World's Fair.
        With the outbreak of World War II, he went to work as art director for the Office of War Information's publications division, designing the magazines Victory, U.S.A. and America.
        In 1938, Mr. Thompson began a 24-year association with the West Virginia Pulp and Paper Company. The pages of its arts journal, Westvaco Inspirations, became  a showcase of his experiments in typography, photographic reproduction and color.
        In 1958, Mr. Thompson began designing the American Classic Book Series for Westvaco, using period typography and engravings in innovative designs for books like "The Red Badge of Courage" and "Typee."
        From 1945 to 1959, he was the art director of Mademoiselle, where he hired many progressive artists to illustrate the magazine's strong fiction section, from Andy Warhol, who was then unknown, to Joan Miro, Willem de Kooning and Jasper Johns.
        In all, Mr. Thompson designed or redesigned more than 35 magazines, including Business Week and the Harvard Business Review; in 1969, the Smithsonian Institution hired him to create the design for Smithsonian magazine, a classic format that has been maintained for more than a quarter of a century.
        Mr. Thompson's work in mass-market books included Time-Life's "Library of Art" and "Foods of the World," both series that received design awards from the American Institute of Graphic Arts.
        In 1969, Marshall Field 4th commissioned Mr. Thompson to create a great lectern Bible in the tradition of the Gutenberg folio edition. This resulted in  what was widely regarded as Mr. Thompson's masterpiece: The Washburn College Bible, published by Oxford University Press in 1979 in a limited edition of 400  copies. Although Gutenberg's Bible was printed in columns of type of identical width, Mr. Thompson set the type of the Washburn College Bible in a flush-left,  ragged-right format that allowed the lines of text to be printed in the phrases  in which they were spoken.
        Mr. Thompson was a recipient of the American Institute of Graphic Arts gold medal for lifetime achievement and the National Society of Art Directors Gold T-Square for career distinction, and was a member of the Art Directors Club Hall of Fame.
        He is survived by his wife, Della Deen Dodge; two sons, Mark Thompson of Philadelphia and D. Dodge Thompson of Washington; two daughters, Leslie Keller of Cleveland and Elizabeth Riley of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      