
        Edward R. Egan, the New York detective turned film star whose smashing of a heroin-smuggling ring was the basis of the Academy Award-winning thriller "The French Connection," died on Saturday at the University of Miami Hospital. He was 65 and had lived in Fort Lauderdale since 1988.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his longtime companion, Cheryl Kyle-Little.
        In more than 15 years with the New York City Police Department, Mr. Egan became famous among colleagues and criminals for posing as a hot dog vendor, a deaf-mute, a priest and a theatrical agent to make arrests.
        One winter, Mr. Egan plodded the streets of East Harlem in a Santa Claus suit, clanging a bronze bell. When the bell rang twice, his partner emerged to handcuff another drug peddler. In four days, they arrested 37 dealers.
        By the time he left the department in November 1971, he was a first-grade detective credited with more than 8,000 arrests. The 1962 case that led to "The  French Connection" catapulted him into a Hollywood acting career. It involved a  dapper French drug smuggler named Jean Jehan, who convinced a French actor, Jacques Angelvin, to hide 97 pounds of heroin in his Buick, which arrived in New York by ship. Five men, including Mr. Angelvin, were arrested and convicted. But Mr. Jehan escaped.
        The 1971 film starred Gene Hackman as Detective Popeye Doyle, the nickname given to Mr. Egan by fellow detectives.
        "He chased some guy down an alley, and when he came back he flexed his muscles," recalled Mr. Egan's former partner, Sonny Grosso. "And we said, 'You can't get away from Popeye.' "
        Edward Egan was born on Jan. 3, 1930, in Queens. An orphan at 12, he ran away from his grandmother's home to join the Marines in 1947. In 1950, he played on the New York Yankees Triple A club. Called back into the Marines to serve in Korea, he lost his place in center field to Mickey Mantle.
        He began his career with the Port Authority Police, transferred to the New York City Police Department in 1955 and was appointed a narcotics detective in 1956.
        "I think he was always looking for a place to belong," Mr. Grosso said. "I think he found it in the Police Department. This guy lived and bled blue."
        After "The French Connection," Detective Egan asked to retire. Instead, he was accused of withholding drugs and of failing to appear in court when he was scheduled to testify. He was dismissed from the Police Department.
        Mr. Egan denied the charges and his dismissal was reversed in court. He was allowed to retire and receive his pension. He left New York and lived in Florida and in California. He acted in several films and television series and owned a film company.
        In addition to Ms. Kyle-Little, he is survived by two half sisters, Maureen Massett and Joan Massett, who live in New York.
      