
        Fred M. Hechinger, the former education editor of The New York Times whose articles, columns and books reflected his abiding concern for the impact of education on shaping individuals and the nation, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 75.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said his wife, Grace, who often joined him in his writing, editing and research.
        After retiring in 1990 from The Times, where he had been president of The New York Times Company Foundation and The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund since 1977, he was named a senior adviser to the Carnegie Corporation of New York. He worked at the philanthropic foundation until his death, focusing on education and youth programs.
        In a career in journalism that began not long after World War II, the soft-spoken, good-humored Mr. Hechinger, who was often seen puffing on a pipe, was not only an education writer for The Times of London, The New York Herald Tribune, The Washington Post and Harper's Magazine but was also the associate publisher and executive editor of The Bridgeport (Conn.) Sunday Herald and education editor of Parents Magazine.
        At The New York Times, which he joined in 1959, he originated the newspaper's special education sections, wrote on a vast spectrum of educational issues, served on the editorial board and became an assistant editor of the editorial page before heading The Times Foundation and the Neediest Cases Fund.
        In one of his reports on the activities of the foundation, which supports education, journalism, the arts, community services and environmental concerns,  he said the test of its success "is the impact on human lives of the dollars we  are able selectively to allocate."
        Summing up the foundation's mission at a time when government support was shrinking, he wrote:
        "To teach children to read and the elderly to continue to learn; to provide interpreters for deaf students; to improve the condition of poor youngsters or to expand opportunities for those who have suffered discrimination; to fight against censorship; to help tiny or giant stages to let the show go on or to provide a forum for poets; to further the restoration of urban parks or the redevelopment of decaying city blocks."
        Mr. Hechinger's writings covered a range of topics, from school integration and Federal school legislation to merit pay for teachers, after-school programs, teen-age delinquency, sex, free speech for students, college admissions standards, black studies programs, cram courses and overseas studies.
        He was the author of "An Adventure in Education: Connecticut Points the Way"  (Macmillan, 1956), "The Big Red Schoolhouse" (Doubleday, 1959) and, with his wife, "Teen-Age Tyranny" (Morrow, 1963), "The New York Times Guide to New York City Private Schools" (Simon & Schuster, 1968) and "Growing Up in America" (McGraw-Hill, 1975).
        Mr. Hechinger was a founder of the Education Writers Association; twice a winner of the George Polk Memorial Award (1950 and 1951), a journalism award, and a recipient of the Distinguished Service Medal of Teachers College of Columbia University.
        Fred Hechinger was born on July 7, 1920, in Nuremberg, Germany, and left the  country in 1936. Arriving in the United States, he completed high school and studied nights at City College, from which he received a bachelor of arts degree. During World War II, he served in the Army in military intelligence, attached mainly to the British War Office in London.
        After his discharge in 1946 as a master sergeant, he studied at the University of London before embarking on a career as a foreign correspondent, covering Europe and the Middle East for the Overseas News Agency. In 1948, he was a special consultant to the education and cultural relations division of the United States military government in Germany.
        Explaining his interest in education reporting, he said, "I began to realize  that a country's approach to education in general, and especially to its children, could tell more about its social, political and economic background than a whole battery of interviews with politicians."
        Mr. Hechinger joined The Herald Tribune in 1950 as education editor, simultaneously serving as American correspondent for the Educational Supplement  of The Times of London. In 1959, after spending three years in Bridgeport, he joined The Times.
        Arthur Gelb, who worked closely with Mr. Hechinger for more than 20 years as  metropolitan editor and managing editor of The Times and as Mr. Hechinger's successor as president of The Times Foundation and Neediest Cases Fund, said: "During his vigorous tenure at The Times, Fred Hechinger was the voice of wisdom, reason and conscience in the often-volatile world of education. His influence extended beyond his many articles and books, for he also served informally as a trusted adviser to public school chancellors, as well as deans and presidents of our leading universities."
        In his farewell "About Education" column, written in December 1990 after three decades of assessing the good and bad in American education, Mr. Hechinger recalled his very first column in The Times, in 1959. Then he had called the nation's schoolchildren "earthbound," bemoaned the neglect of mathematics and science and called for national educational goals.
        "My report of 31 years ago might suggest that little has changed," he wrote.  "Americans have landed on the moon, but schools are still mired in earthbound problems, such as mastery of math and science. Junior high schools still await reform.
        "Some things have grown worse, poverty, disintegrating families, drugs, violence."
        He recalled, though, that he had visited many classrooms where great teachers infused their students with the joy of learning.
        "But after leaving such good-news classrooms, I would think about hundreds of thousands of youngsters who are never allowed to taste such pleasures," Mr. Hechinger wrote. "Should I have ignored the bad news -- about a system that deprives the many of joy reserved for the few?
        "I tried to celebrate the islands of excellence, but I could not overlook the sea of neglect and apathy that threatened to wash over them."
        In addition to his wife, the former Grace Bernstein, Mr. Hechinger is survived by two sons, Paul D. Hechinger of Manhattan and John E. Hechinger of Charlotte, N.C.
      