
        Isang Yun, a Korean-born German composer of powerful, kaleidoscopically scored chamber and orchestral works, died on Friday in Berlin, where he lived. He was 78.
        The cause was a lung infection, according to The Associated Press.
        Mr. Yun, who was admired among musicians for the inventiveness with which he combined Western and traditional Korean and Chinese musical techniques, became known outside musical circles in June 1967, when South Korean agents abducted him and his wife, Soo Ya Yun, from their West Berlin apartment. Because he had visited North Korea four years earlier, Mr. Yun was tried for treason and sentenced to life in prison. His wife was sentenced to three years as an accomplice.
        International pressure on South Korea -- including a formal protest by the West German Government and a petition from a large group of Western composers and performers, led by Igor Stravinsky -- led to the Yuns' release two years later. They returned to West Germany and became citizens in 1971. A second kidnapping attempt in 1976, during a visit to Japan, was thwarted by the composer's bodyguards.
        Mr. Yun was born in Tongyong, in what is now South Korea, on Sept. 17, 1917.  He began composing when he was 14 and in the early 1940's went to Japan to study in Tokyo and at the Osaka Conservatory. But he opposed the Japanese occupation of Korea, and upon his return to Korea he joined an underground group, an act for which he was imprisoned by the occupation authorities.
        After World War II, he became a music teacher in Tongyong and later at Seoul  University. His early compositions were performed and published (although he subsequently withdrew these), and in 1955 he won the Seoul City Award, which made it possible for him to pursue further studies at the Paris Conservatory, the Hochschule fur Musik in Berlin, and at Darmstadt. He remained in Germany, settling in West Berlin in 1964.
        In the music he composed during these years -- "Loyang" (1962) and "Reak" (1966), for orchestra; "Gasa" for violin and piano (1963), and "Garak" for flute and piano (1963) -- he drew inspiration from Chinese and Korean court music, blending exotic tone-production techniques with the angular Western style he had developed at Darmstadt.
        His style continued to evolve through the 1970's, when he was using what he called "main-tone technique," a method in which grand textures were woven around central melodic figures. And by the mid-1980's, the sometimes acerbic edges of his early style had softened. In recent works like "Distanzen" (1988), string and wind quintets play off each other, creating a magical shimmer that eludes stylistic classification.
        Mr. Yun also composed four operas on Korean and Taoist themes, as well as five symphonies and numerous vocal and chamber works.
        He is survived by his wife; a son, John Yun of California, and a daughter, Djong Yun of New York City.
      