
        Jose Yglesias, a novelist, journalist and playwright best known for writing about Latin Americans affected by revolutions, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, said his son, the novelist and screenwriter Rafael Yglesias.
        In his books -- seven novels and four works of nonfiction -- Mr. Yglesias chronicled the lives of exiles and emigres as well as those who remained at home. The tone of his work was set in 1967 in his second book, "The Goodbye Land," about Galicia, his father's native province in Spain. The elder Yglesias  had returned there to die. Years later, his son visited his father's birthplace, hoping to come to an understanding of his family legacy. Reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review, Clancy Sigal wrote, "It is not often that one finds a 'travel book' so affecting, generous and tender."
        The next year Mr. Yglesias published "In the Fist of the Revolution," an intimate view of Mayari, a small country town in Cuba, under the rule of Fidel Castro. Norman Gall said in The New York Times Book Review, "Mr. Yglesias is an  honest and experienced reporter who, though sympathetic, refuses to be drugged by revolutionary rhetoric." Instead he focused "on the essential quality of the  Cuban people," which has remained intact "through the convulsions of the past decade," he added.
        Similarly, his book "Down There" deals with the lives of people in Brazil, Cuba, Chile and Peru. In 1975, he returned to Spain and wrote "The Franco Years." In The Times, John Leonard called it "a modest and extremely interesting series of interviews, filtered through a sympathetic intelligence" with people "who managed to survive Franco's dreary rule."
        Mr. Yglesias was born in the Ybor City section of Tampa, Fla., and was of Cuban and Spanish descent.  "None of us thought of ourselves as immigrants," he  said. "This was our place." It was in Ybor City that he received his initial political education. Years later he was to write about his hometown in a trilogy of plays dealing with three generations of a Hispanic family.
        Moving to New York City at the age of 17, he worked as a dishwasher and stock clerk. After serving in the United States Navy during World War II, he studied at Black Mountain College and was a film critic for The Daily Worker. For more than 10 years he was an executive for the pharmaceutical company Merck, Sharp &  Dohme.
        His first novel, "A Wake in Ybor City," about Cubans who immigrated to Florida, was published in 1963. From then on, he devoted himself to writing, moving back and forth between fiction and nonfiction. His other novels were "An Orderly Life," "Double Double," "The Truth About Them," "The Kill Price," "Home Again" and "Tristan and the Hispanics." "Tristan and the Hispanics," published in 1989, centered on a man who was the most famous Latin American writer of his generation.
        Mr. Yglesias also wrote articles for The New Yorker, The New York Times Magazine and other periodicals. Two new novels and a book of his short stories are to be published by Arte Publico, which also plans to reissue all his earlier works.
        He lived in New York City and North Brooklin, Me. Writing about Maine, he said it "engages a seldom visited corner of our minds: that corner where we dream of islands and deep green forests and golden ponds."
        Mr. Yglesias was the patriarch of a writing family, which in addition to his  son included his former wife, Helen, a novelist, and two stepchildren, Lewis Cole and Tamar Cole. He is also survived by his sister, Dahlia Corro, and five grandchildren.
      