
        Slappy White, one of the black stand-up comedians who blazed a trail out of the so-called chitlin' circuit to perform before predominantly white audiences in the 1950's, died on Tuesday at his home in Brigantine, N.J. He was 74.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a spokesman for the Atlantic City Medical  Center.
        With colleagues like Nipsey Russell and Timmie Rogers, Mr. White emerged from the round of cabarets, nightclubs and small theaters that catered mostly to black patrons to appear before mainly white audiences.
        As black humor moved into the American mainstream, Mr. White became a regular in Las Vegas and performed frequently with Dean Martin in the 1960's. He also appeared in nightclubs, on television and in films with entertainers like Dinah  Washington, Moms Mabley, Billy Crystal and his boyhood friend Redd Foxx.
        In his routines, Mr. White often drew on his own hard-luck experiences:
        "My landlord said he's gonna raise the rent. 'Good,' I said, 'cause I can't raise it,' " he would say.
        In "On the Real Side," his history of black American humor, Mel Watkins recounted an incident that occurred in the 1950's when Mr. White was appearing in a show headlined by Washington in Las Vegas.
        The comedian, who often chose members of the audience as targets of his humor, selected the cigar-chomping manager of the night spot, who always began to pace the floor nervously when Mr. White began his act. Although the jokes were mild, the manager dismissed Mr. White for violating an unstated rule that black comedians refrain from wisecracks aimed at white customers.
        His job was saved when Washington threatened to pull the entire act.
        Mr. White, whose real name was Melvin White, was born in Baltimore and began  his career in show business by dancing for pennies on the streets. Often his partner in those early days was Foxx.
        He was planning to retire because of a heart ailment and was in the process of moving from Los Angeles to Brigantine when he died.
        He is survived by two sisters.
      