
        Reza Abdoh, an Iranian-born creator of innovative large-scale stage spectacles known for their visual flamboyance and ferocious energy, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 32.
        The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Brendan Doyle.
        A theatrical visionary who was better known in Europe than in the United States, Mr. Abdoh was the director of Dar a Luz, a tribelike theater group based in New York and Los Angeles. For his young ensemble he devised four original productions between 1990 and 1994: "The Hip-Hop Waltz of Eurydice" (1990), "Bogeyman" (1991), "The Law of Remains" (1992) and "Quotations From a Ruined City" (1993). These environmental theater pieces were phantasmagoric nightmares that used multimedia techniques and raw images of urban decay to bombard the senses.
        His work in the United States was presented first in Los Angeles and later in New York, most often in unusual and unmarked spaces: storefronts, warehouses, side streets, industrial lofts, gymnasiums and disused hotels. In Europe, by contrast, his troupe was presented at major arts festivals and urban theater centers.
        Mr. Abdoh was born in Teheran in 1963. At the age of 12, he moved to England. By the time he was 14, he had started to direct productions at the National Youth Theater. After moving to the United Sates, he attended the University of Southern California. In 1985, Diane White, who became his longtime producer, and Bill Bushnell at the Los Angeles Theater Center presented his work for the first time in a theatrical venue.
        In 1990, he was commissioned by the director Peter Sellars to create a work for the Los Angeles Festival, which led to a series of later commissions in Europe. He was recently a recipient of a Cal Arts/Herb Alpert Foundation Award.
        In addition to Mr. Doyle, he is survived by three brothers, Salar Abdoh of Manhattan, Sid Abdoh of Los Angeles and Ali Mohadjerin of Iran; his mother, Homa Mohadjerin of Iran, and a sister, Negar Fathi of Iran.
      