
        Ernest Gellner, an expert on social anthropology, philosophy and politics at  universities in London, Cambridge, England, and Prague, died on Sunday at the Prague airport. He was 69 and had led an academic institute in Prague since 1993.
        The Guardian and The Financial Times of London said the cause was a heart attack. He had long suffered from osteoporosis, a bone disorder.
        As an anthropologist he has spent his life puzzling over the conditions of  modernization," Alan Ryan, a professor of politics at Princeton, wrote of Dr. Gellner in The New York Times Book Review in January. As a philosopher, he "has  always celebrated the rise of what Karl Popper," the Anglo-Austrian philosopher, called the open society, Mr. Ryan added.
        In 1959, relatively early in his career, he helped make himself well known in the world of philosophers with a controversial book, "Words and Things," which has been described as arguing that philosophy should have something to say about the world.
        Among Dr. Gellner's most influential books was "Nations and Nationalism," published in 1983. The Financial Times suggested on Tuesday that he had helped to prepare "the intellectual ground for the resurgence of nationalism, or at any rate of interest in it, which accompanied and followed the end of the cold war."
        Dr. Gellner was dazzlingly argumentative in his chosen fields. A notable example of his combativeness was his recent skirmishing, in the pages of The Times Literary Supplement, a British weekly, with Edward W. Said, a Palestinian-American professor at Columbia University.
        The confrontation centered on Dr. Said's book "Culture and Imperialism," a 1993 work grounded in literary criticism, and "Orientalism," a 1978 book critiquing Western attitudes toward the East.
        In a letter, Dr. Gellner contended that Dr. Said's book "Orientalism" was "entertaining but intellectually insignificant." Dr. Said responded by describing Dr. Gellner's critique as a "puerile American joke."
        Dr. Gellner was professor of philosophy at the London School of Economics from 1962 to 1984 and of social anthropology at Cambridge University from 1984 to 1993. Later that year he became a professor at the Central European University in Prague as well as the director of that university's Center for the Study of Nationalism.
        In reporting his death, The Guardian said on Tuesday: "His understanding of the development of nationalist ideologies in modernizing societies and their role in attempts by intellectual elites to achieve the integration of populations into modern communities gave distinctive substance to his way of practicing the sociology of ideas, including philosophical ideas."
        The Times of London, also reviewing Dr. Gellner's career on Tuesday, cited his "torrential intellectual energy" and his many writings, saying: "He was more than once heard to apologize to his friends: 'I'm sorry. I've written another book -- I just can't help it."' All told, he wrote or edited more than a score of books, of which a dozen are currently in print in the United States.
        His latest, "Conditions of Liberty: Civil Society and Its Rivals," drew praise from Professor Ryan in the Times Book Review in January as "a witty, elegant and sharply pointed essay on the prospects for liberal democracy in the  late 20th century."
        Dr. Gellner was born in Paris, the son of Rudolf Gellner, a Jewish lawyer from Czechoslovakia, and the former Anna Fantl. He was reared mainly in Prague,  where he attended an English school.
        He moved with his family to Britain in 1939 and went on to serve as a private in a Czech armored contingent late in World War II. He earned an M.A. at Oxford  and years later received his Ph.D. in anthropology from the London School of Economics, where he remained on the staff, beginning as a junior lecturer, from 1949 to 1984.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Susan Ryan; two sons and a daughter.
      