
        Richard L. Coe, a longtime drama critic for The Washington Post, died at his  home in Washington yesterday. He was 81.
        The cause was lymphoma, his family said.
        In his more than four decades of reviewing, Mr. Coe became known as one of the most influential theater critics outside New York City. He was the leading theater reviewer in Washington when that city was a major tryout stop for shows  headed for New York. It was the postwar period that was considered Broadway's last golden era of prolific production. Consequently, it was often Mr. Coe's reviews that directors used to help smooth out productions before heading to the harsher lights of Broadway.
        Among the many shows Mr. Coe reviewed at Washington's National Theater were David Merrick's original productions of "Hello, Dolly!" and "Carnival." He also  reviewed the premieres of plays by Neil Simon, Tennessee Williams and William Inge.
        Mr. Coe was born in New York City in 1914. He often said that his interest in music and theater began during his years at the choir school of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in Manhattan. He graduated from George Washington University in 1938 and immediately joined The Washington Post as a radio editor and assistant drama critic. During World War II he served in the United States Army  Air Corps as a writer and editor for Stars and Stripes, reporting out of Cairo.
        He returned to The Post in 1946 as drama critic, although he also reviewed motion pictures and other entertainment. He retired in 1979 and was named a critic emeritus.
        In 1946, too, he married Christine Sadler, who later became the Washington editor of McCall's magazine and wrote the book "America's First Ladies." Mrs. Coe died in 1983. The couple had no children.
        Mr. Coe wrote for numerous other publications, including The New York Times and The New Republic. He was also a regular radio and television commentator. He was named Critic of the Year by the Directors' Guild of America in 1963 and "Washingtonian of the Year" in 1980.
        Mr. Coe was considered a generous reviewer. The Oxford Companion to American  Theatre describes him this way: "One of the leading non-New York critics, he was a warm, knowledgeable advocate of all good theater, and his views were regularly solicited by Broadway producers, even when they did not try out their shows in Washington."
        His columns, however, were not limited to theatrical productions. He also wrote articles condemning racial segregation at the National Theater in the early 1950's, and seeking the repeal of a child labor law in Washington that prohibited performances by casts that included children.
        Mr. Coe was known as an enthusiastic advocate for new theatrical institutions in Washington, including Arena Stage and the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. In 1980, the New Playwrights' Theater in Washington established an award in his name.
      