
        Dr. Charles Vevier, a professor and former senior administrator at the Newark-based New Jersey Medical School, died on Thursday at Englewood Hospital.  He was 71 and lived in Tenafly, N.J.
        He had suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        Dr. Vevier started his career as a historian of American diplomacy and wrote two books reflecting that background. He also contributed many scholarly papers.
        From 1971 to 1983, Dr. Vevier was executive vice president of the University  of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. He helped develop overall university policy and directed faculty and academic affairs, like recruitment, tenure and promotions. At his death, he was professor of social and behavioral sciences in  the medical school's psychiatry department.
        Dr. Vevier edited "Flexner 75 Years Later: A Current Commentary on Medical Education" (University Press of America, 1987), which remains in print. It updated a classic critique in 1910 by Dr. Abraham Flexner.
        The Flexner report rated the quality, priorities and finances of 155 medical  colleges, to resounding effects around the country. Many of the schools that Dr. Flexner failed in the 1910 critique closed their doors and others drastically revised their policies and curriculums.
        Dr. Vevier, who was born in Brooklyn, received three degrees in history from  the University of Wisconsin, where he focused on Chinese-American relations as a Ph.D. candidate.
        In 1959, he became an associate professor at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee. He served as vice chancellor from 1963 to 1969.
        He next became president of Adelphi University in New York, where he established a black studies program. He resigned in 1971 in a disagreement with  the trustees who, he felt, failed to give him enough authority to match his responsibilities.
        Dr. Vevier is survived by his wife of 43 years, Marcia Gold Vevier; two daughters, Ann Vevier Lockwood and Ellen Vevier, both of Austin, Tex.; a son, John, of Tenafly, and two grandsons.
      