
        Sir Robert Stephens, a leading actor in the formative years of Britain's National Theater who won fresh acclaim as a major Shakespearean performer late in his career, died on Sunday at a London hospital. He was 64.
        Last year he had undergone a liver and kidney transplant, and recently had suffered rejection problems.
        Sir Robert's career fell into two distinct parts. Indeed, he virtually had two separate careers. In the 1960's he was widely regarded as the natural heir of Sir Laurence Olivier, then the National Theater's director. But after his departure from the company in 1970, and the breakup of his marriage to the actress Maggie Smith three years later, he suffered a slump that was made worse  by heavy and persistent drinking. Not until the 1990's, when the Royal Shakespeare Company invited the half-forgotten actor to play first Falstaff in "Henry IV," then the title role in "King Lear," did he re-establish himself at the forefront of his profession. His reward was a knighthood earlier this year.
        His first major success came in 1958 when he was cast as a bitter would-be writer in a play John Osborne had written with Anthony Creighton, "Epitaph for George Dillon." The Broadway production of the play was a failure, but he himself was warmly received. He got his biggest break in 1963, when Olivier invited him to join the new National Theater Company, in Chichester and later in London. There, he established himself as one of the most accomplished actors of  his generation.
        Starting as Horatio in "Hamlet," he rapidly rose to take leading parts, including Atahualpa, the Inca god-king, in Peter Shaffer's "Royal Hunt of the Sun." His distinctive qualities were humanity, vulnerability, a quiet intelligence and, not least, a sense of fun. This was especially marked when he  appeared as a flamboyant yet touching Benedick to Ms. Smith's Beatrice in Franco Zeffirelli's 1965 production of "Much Ado About Nothing." The couple were also memorable in Noel Coward's revival of his own "Hay Fever" and in Farquhar's "Beaux Stratagem."
        He and Ms. Smith were married in 1967, after he divorced his second wife. The glittering young couple were sometimes called the new Lunts, but what Sir Robert was to remember as their "golden age" did not last. In 1970 he quarreled with Olivier, gave up his post as the National's associate director and then left the theater. And thanks partly to the adulteries he confessed in his recently published autobiography, "Knight Errant," he and Ms. Smith were divorced in 1976.
        By this time, he had also tried and failed to become a film star. He played second fiddle with some success to Ms. Smith in "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie," but he was not so fortunate with the lead role in Billy Wilder's 1969 film "The  Private Life of Sherlock Holmes." What Sir Robert regarded as the director's perfectionism so undermined his confidence that he had a nervous breakdown and attempted suicide. Moreover, the finished movie neither pleased the public nor gave him the new career he wanted.
        In the 1970's he brought his trademark humanity to roles that are usually considered unsympathetic, the writer Trigorin in Chekhov's "Seagull" and the priggish Pastor Manders in Ibsen's "Ghosts." But there was soon no doubt that his career was in decline, and by the 1980's in serious decay. Hard living had taken its toll. There were no memorable performances until 1991, when the Royal  Shakespeare Company suddenly invited him to tackle the roles of Falstaff in both parts of "Henry IV" and, two years later, to star in "King Lear."
        The years of absence and self-destructive behavior had clearly deepened him in ways peculiarly relevant to those roles. His melancholy Falstaff seemed to exude a sense of grief and self-disgust for times wasted. His Lear was less the  ferocious, vindictive tyrant than a foolish, fond old man who learned to look beyond his own self-pity and see the injustice and suffering endured by others.  His performance proved an immense public success.
        Sir Robert was born in Bristol in 1931, son of a laborer, and had what he later called "a terrible childhood, with no money, no love and no prospects." In "Knight Errant," he recalled his mother's treating him with extreme violence  and once telling him she had tried to abort him in early pregnancy. Though academically a total failure, he became involved in amateur theatricals and eventually won a scholarship to a drama school in Yorkshire, where he lost his working-class accent and made a disastrous and short-lived first marriage.
        Repertory work in the provinces led in 1956 to an invitation to join a new troupe called the English Stage Company, which was about to bring new energy and relevance to the British theater by staging Osborne's "Look Back in Anger." Sir  Robert did not appear in that, but he took a small part in Osborne's play "The Entertainer," and understudied Olivier in the title role. That began a long association with an actor he regarded as a hero and a model, "the great example  and mentor of my career."
        In spite of the mistakes he readily confessed in "Knight Errant" -- "I have drunk the sediment and heard the chimes at midnight" -- Sir Robert was a cheerful, lively man who loved nothing better than to exchange anecdotes with friends and admirers. In recent years, these included Prince Charles, who was reported to have acted out scenes involving Falstaff and Prince Hal in Sir Robert's hospital room only days before he died. And after seeing his Lear, the  heir to the British throne told him, "There's one thing I've learned from this play: don't abdicate."
        Sir Robert is survived by his fourth wife, Patricia Quinn, and four children  by his other marriages.
        Not least, he leaves behind a reputation for acting with emotional candor and pluck. Who will easily forget the great animal yowl his Lear emitted over the body of his daughter Cordelia, or the numbed desolation with which he mourned her death?
      