
        Kenneth S. Goldstein, a folklorist, record producer and collector who was a prime mover in the 1960's folk revival, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 68.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Rochelle.
        Mr. Goldstein was the chairman of the department of Folklore and Folklife at the University of Pennsylvania. He produced more than 500 albums of folk recordings, including Celtic, Appalachian and cowboy songs, and he was a co-founder of the Philadelphia Folk Festival. His doctoral dissertation became his first book, "A Guide for Fieldworkers in Folklore" (1964), a standard text that has been widely translated. He collected and studied ballads and ghost stories, sea songs and riddles from Scotland to Newfoundland to Australia.
        Mr. Goldstein was born in Brooklyn, earned bachelor's and master's degrees in business administration from the City College of New York, and served in the Army in the 1940's. During the 1950's and early 60's he worked as a producer and music editor for Stinson, Folkways, Prestige and Riverside Records. He recorded  Jean Ritchie, the Rev. Gary Davis, Lightnin' Hopkins and Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee. He also helped start the Philadelphia Folk Festival in the early 1960's.
        In 1963, he earned the first Ph.D. in folklore awarded by the University of Pennsylvania, and began teaching there. He received the Lindback Foundation Award for distinguished teaching in 1967, and became chairman of the department  of Folklore and Folklife, educating and developing methodology for a generation of folklorists. In 1985, he also became chairman of the university's  graduate program in social gerontology.
        During the 1960's, Mr. Goldstein became active in publishing. He was executive editor and president of Folklore Associates from 1960 to 1969 and later worked for Breakwater Books, Folklorica Inc. and Pastime Books, where he became editor and president in 1982. He was active in the Pennsylvania Folklore  Society and in the American Folklore Society, of which he was president in 1975-76.
        During the 1970's, he was a special assistant on folklore and folklife to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. He was also on the advisory and review panel for the folk arts program of the National Endowment for the Arts. During the 1980's and 90's in Pennsylvania, he was a longtime member of the governor's  Heritage Affairs commission, and in 1988 he was an adviser to the Australian National Folk Trust.
        His collection of books and records is now housed at the Center for Southern  Culture in Oxford, Miss., and his collection of American broadsides and country-western folios will be housed at the Middle Tennessee State University center for popular music in Murfreesboro, Tenn.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, two daughters, two grandchildren and a brother.
      