
        Simon H. Rifkind, a famously versatile lawyer whose clientele included the Municipal Assistance Corporation, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and needy Holocaust survivors, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 94 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        At his death, Mr. Rifkind was the senior partner in his New York-based law firm, Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, which has more than 90 partners  and about 300 other lawyers.
        The work of the firm encompasses corporate law, including mergers and acquisitions, and a variety of litigation as well as trusts and estates and real estate law. It has offices in Washington, Paris, Tokyo, Beijing and Hong Kong.
        A former Federal District Court judge, Mr. Rifkind won renown as a trial lawyer. He continued to come in to his office at the firm until early this fall. He was increasingly frail recently and used a wheelchair for the last few months. In his last years, much of his professional time was spent advising lawyers in his firm on a wide range of matters.
        In 1986, at age 85, he was one of six lawyers who argued on behalf of Pennzoil in a Houston courtroom in one stage of its landmark legal confrontation with its rival Texaco. The Pennzoil team was successful in its effort to persuade the Texas First Court of Appeals to uphold a judgment that required Texaco to pay Pennzoil $10.53 billion in damages for interfering in Pennzoil's plan to acquire three-sevenths of the Getty Oil Company; the case was later settled for $3 billion.
        William O. Douglas wrote after his retirement from the United States Supreme  Court that Mr. Rifkind became "the most outstanding advocate of all" the lawyers who appeared before the Court between 1939 and 1975.
        As Mr. Rifkind's long career went on, he came to be seen as exemplifying the  unspecialized, general-practitioner lawyers who were widely supplanted, with the passage of the decades, by specialists who focused on relatively narrow areas of the law.
        Mr. Rifkind's strengths included the ability to master vast quantities of data in new fields and to cut to the heart of the issues involved. He was so esteemed by the Supreme Court that it chose him in 1956 for the epic task of sorting out Western states' rival claims to water from the Colorado River.
        For some years, Mr. Rifkind was prominent in other similar roles, as a referee in complicated legal actions and as a mediator in labor cases. In 1961,  President John F. Kennedy chose him to head a study of railroad labor problems.
        Mr. Rifkind also represented or advised such New York political figures as Mayor Robert F. Wagner and Gov. Hugh L. Carey as well as New York State Democratic leaders, whom he represented in 1965 and 1966 in intricate litigation about reapportionment.
        Similarly, Mr. Rifkind worked in various ways for such prominent individuals  in other realms as the restaurateur Toots Shor and J. Truman Bidwell, a former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange.
        Mr. Rifkind spent seven decades, all told, in the world of the law. From 1927 to 1933, he was legislative secretary to Senator Robert F. Wagner, the New York  Democrat who was Mayor Wagner's father. In that post, he helped draw up important New Deal measures. He was the Senator's partner in the New York law firm of Wagner, Quillinan & Rifkind from 1930 to 1941 and a Federal District Court judge in New York from 1941 to 1950. He joined Paul, Weiss in 1950 and was president of the American College of Trial Lawyers in 1976 and 1977.
        Mr. Rifkind took a broad and personal view of the lawyer's role. "Like an usher in a dark movie theater, holding the client by the hand, the lawyer guides him through the maze of law and regulation which now enmeshes all our lives," he said in a 1984 speech.
        Over the years, he worked on behalf of a broad range of corporations and other organizations. Having specialized early in his career in bankruptcy matters, he played a prominent role in the formation in 1975 of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, the rescue agency for New York City in its mid-1970's brush with municipal bankruptcy. He became general counsel of the MAC and also acquired something of a reputation among New Yorkers as a behind-the-scenes operator who could get things done around the city.
        In addition, Mr. Rifkind worked for General Motors, Lazard Freres & Company and other major clients in the business world.
        But he was perhaps best known to the general public for his work on behalf of Mrs. Onassis. He represented her in two notable legal confrontations. The first  was her struggle to keep William Manchester's 1967 book "The Death of a President" from being published.
        She contended that it contained personal material that would cause her "great and irreparable injury" and that her rights had been breached by plans to have the work published without her approval.
        Early in 1967, she withdrew a lawsuit she had brought against Mr. Manchester  and the book's publisher, Harper & Row, when they agreed to deletions and changes before the book came out.
        The second confrontation was in 1971 and 1972 between Mrs. Onassis and a persistent photographer of celebrities, Ronald E. Galella. In 1972, a Federal judge in New York ruled that Mr. Galella had "relentlessly invaded" her right to privacy and had interfered with her protection by Secret Service agents. The judge permanently enjoined Mr. Galella from approaching her or her children to take pictures of them. He also dismissed a suit that Mr. Galella had filed against her.
        In 1945 and 1946, as an adviser on Jewish affairs for the Army in Europe, Mr. Rifkind championed uprooted Holocaust survivors who were then in Germany and Austria and made appeals for more aid to them. That experience helped lead him to champion the creation of the State of Israel and led President Harry S. Truman to award him the Medal of Freedom.
        In 1970, he was retained by Justice Douglas, who had been his classmate at Columbia Law School, to be the Justice's own lawyer when he faced possible impeachment proceedings.
        Mr. Rifkind, who liked to be called "Judge," was praised as pragmatic, quick-witted and hard-working, but he was also the subject of cooler appraisals. A 1983 sketch of Mr. Rifkind in The New Yorker observed that some judges called his courtroom style corny. It also quoted his partner Jay Topkis as saying: "Rifkind has represented a lot of sinners, but as soon as he accepted their cases, to him they became angels. At that moment, he stopped being able to see their flaws."
        The subject of those appraisals was physically a modest figure. In 1960, when the Colorado River controversy had put him in the limelight, he packed 140 pounds on his 5-foot-6-inch frame, and his blue eyes looked out owlishly through heavy-rimmed spectacles.
        Yet he loomed large for years behind the scenes at Paul, Weiss, doing much to expand its roster of lawyers, its workload and its revenues.
        Simon Hirsch Rifkind was born on June 5, 1901, in Meretz, Russia, one of the  five children of Jacob Rifkind and Celia Bluestone. The boy was brought in 1910  to New York, where Jacob Rifkind was a woolens merchant on the Lower East Side.
        Simon Rifkind graduated in 1922 from City College after being elected to Phi  Beta Kappa. He received his LL.B. degree from Columbia in 1925.
        In 1930, he earned a niche in New York judicial history by becoming the person who reported the mysterious disappearance of a State Supreme Court judge, Joseph Force Crater, after the judge got into a cab outside a West 45th Street chophouse and was never seen again.
        Mr. Rifkind's many community activities over the years included serving as a  member of the New York City Board of Higher Education from 1954 to 1966. He also served as chairman of the administrative board and of the executive board of the American Jewish Committee and as chairman of the board of the Jewish Theological Seminary.
        Judge Rifkind's wife of 57 years, the former Adele Singer, died in 1984.
        He is survived by two sons, Dr. Richard A. Rifkind of Manhattan, the chairman of the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research, and Robert S. Rifkin of Manhattan, a partner in the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, and four granddaughters.
        A funeral service is to be held at 10 A.M. tomorrow at the Park Avenue Synagogue, at 50 East 87th Street.
        Correction:  November 16, 1995, Thursday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about the New York lawyer  Simon H. Rifkind misspelled the surname of a surviving son. He is Robert S. Rifkind, not Rifkin.
      