
        Rene Wellek, the Yale professor who schooled, scolded, impressed and inspired a generation of literary scholars, died on Friday at a nursing home in Hamden, Conn. He was 92 and widely regarded as a founder of the study of comparative literature in the United States.
        Known as a walking encyclopedia, Mr. Wellek simply read so many more books and scholarly papers in so many more languages than anyone else -- and remembered so much of it -- that to engage him in scholarly discourse was to risk not only being outflanked by his vast scholarship but also being skewered by his precise mind.
        For all that, with his voluminous writings he gained a reputation as a fair-minded critic of critics, one as likely to find something praiseworthy in one he disagreed with as to spot a weakness in one he generally admired.
        As the chairman of a Yale department that has often been at the cutting edge  of literary criticism and at the center of scholarly controversy, Professor Wellek, whose tenure extended from the dawn of the New Criticism to the twilight of deconstruction, tended to stay somewhat above the fray. That was partly because he operated equally as a historian of literary criticism and as a critic.
        His eight-volume "History of Modern Criticism, 1750-1950," is regarded as definitive, all the more so because he finished dictating the last two volumes from his nursing-home bed at the age of 90. Not that he was shy about using his  historical writings to reveal his own notions of proper literary criticism, his belief in the value of interpretation and his impatience with empirical, fact-grubbing scholarship.
        Professor Wellek was born in Vienna and was taken as a child to Prague, where he completed his education, specializing in English literature and languages.
        Before being called to Yale in 1946 to establish what became a full-blown department of comparative literature, Professor Wellek spent seven years teaching at the University of Iowa, where he collaborated with a colleague, Austin Warren, on "Theory of Literature," a work that introduced European scholarship to the United States and helped lay the groundwork for the study of  comparative literature here.
        He is survived by his second wife, Nonna; a son from his first marriage, Ivan, of Cheshire, Conn.; a sister, Elisabeth Steidl of Ratzeburg, Germany, and  a granddaughter.
      