
        Conrad J. Lynn, a longtime civil rights lawyer whose clients included freedom riders in the South, Vietnam War draft resisters and Puerto Rican nationalists,  died on Thursday at his home in Pomona, N.Y. He was 87.
        During a six-decade law career, Mr. Lynn espoused scores of unpopular causes, leading the State Department to seize his passport in 1968 after he traveled to  North Vietnam.
        Mr. Lynn was born in Newport, R.I., the second son of a domestic worker and  a laborer who migrated from Georgia. His family moved to Rockville Centre, L.I., when he was a boy. In 1932 Mr. Lynn became the first black graduate of Syracuse  University Law School.
        A member of the Communist Party in the late 1920's and 1930's, Mr. Lynn was expelled from the party in 1939 for supporting striking Trinidadian oil workers  in their fight against Britain.
        Mr. Lynn participated in some of the earliest freedom rides in the 1940's, when interracial groups of civil rights advocates rode buses to the South to protest Jim Crow laws.
        In the early 1940's, Mr. Lynn defended his brother Winfred, who had refused to be drafted into the United States Army in protest of its segregationist policies. He took the case despite the concerns of mainstream civil rights groups like the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which felt that blacks would profit more by supporting the war effort.
        Mr. Lynn also had a longstanding association with the Puerto Rican "independentistas," who wanted their island to be free of United States rule. In the early 1950's, Mr. Lynn was the lawyer for one of the five Puerto Rican nationalists charged with shooting at members of Congress while they were in session. They were convicted.
        In what became known as the "Kissing Case," Mr. Lynn represented two young black boys from North Carolina, age 7 and 9, who were charged with rape because  they had kissed a young white girl while they were playing house.
        The boys, who were held for months without bail, were eventually released after supporters, including Eleanor Roosevelt, led an international campaign on  their behalf.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Lynn defended many draft resisters who refused to fight in Vietnam. One of those cases reached the United States Supreme Court. Mr. Lynn argued unsuccessfully that conscientious objector status should be given to those who resist fighting in a particular war, but not necessarily all wars.
        Mr. Lynn also defended many black activists of that era, including H. Rap Brown, a member of the Black Panther Party.
        While defending many unpopular cases, Mr. Lynn sought to make blacks an integral part of the judicial system.
        "It's time for a black man to serve on the state's highest court, since 90 percent of all those awaiting trial in state prisons are either black or Puerto  Rican," Mr. Lynn said in 1972 as he sought one of three vacancies on the New York State Court of Appeals.
        Mr. Lynn continued practicing law until a few months before his death.  He is survived by his wife, Yolanda Moreno; three children, Suzanne Lynn of Manhattan, Alexander Lynn of Boston and Gabrielle Savage of Woodland Park, Colo., and five  grandchildren.
      