
        Sidney Hurwitz, a doctor who helped elevate the treatment of diaper rash, acne and the entire spectrum of childhood skin disorders into a distinct medical specialty, died on Monday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 67 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn.
        The cause was viral pneumonia, said his wife, Teddy.
        Dr. Hurwitz was a pediatrician in New Haven in the 1960's when he made a troubling observation: about a third of his patients had some sort of skin problem, sometimes as a primary complaint, sometimes, as his wife recalled yesterday, almost as an afterthought.
        "He'd be treating an earache, say, and the mother would say, 'Oh, yes, doctor, as long as he's here, could you just take a look at this little rash?' "
        Aside from the surprising prevalence of such complaints, what troubled Dr. Hurwitz was his realization that his pediatric training had given skin disorders short shrift and his discovery, after repeated consultations with dermatologists, that their specialized training had also glossed over children's skin problems.
        Having discovered a medical gap, Dr. Hurwitz moved to fill it. In 1968, after 14 years of practice, he closed his office and went back to school, emerging after a second round of residency at Yale with board certification in dermatology.
        If he had any doubts about his career change, they were quickly dispelled. Within six months of hanging out his new shingle as a pediatric dermatologist, he had a full caseload and was increasingly in demand to share his new expertise.
        His wife recalled the first time he gave a lecture at an annual meeting of the American Academy of Dermatology, "They assigned him a room with 100 seats, and 1,000 doctors showed up." When the same thing happened at a meeting of the American Academy of Pediatrics, she said, the word got around, "Dr. Hurwitz gets the ballroom."
        By 1974 he was able to join with three other doctors to establish the American Society for Pediatric Dermatology, which now has 450 members, and in 1981 he published the infant field's premier textbook, "Clinical Pediatric Dermatology," which he revised in 1993.
        He was in the forefront of clinical research that established that two competing topical acne medications, Retin-A and benzoyl peroxide, were highly effective when used together.
        He also helped spread the alarm about the growing incidence of skin cancer -- urging, for example, the use of strong sunscreens on babies as young as 6 months -- and he even provided practical advice on early childhood's most common skin problem: change the little one promptly; pat, do not rub; use an ointment, and air the baby out by leaving diapers off.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Dr. Wendy Hurwitz of Manhattan, Laurie Attias of Paris and Alison Hurwitz of San Jose, Calif.; a brother, Norman, of Woodbridge, and a sister, Thelma Muffs of Orlando, Fla.
      