
        Solomon Liptzin, an educator and prolific author and scholar in Yiddish and German literature, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Jerusalem, where he had gone to live after retiring from the City University of New York in 1962. He was 94.
        Writing mostly in English, he published many scholarly articles, book reviews and 20 books and biographies, at least a half-dozen of which remain active on publishers' lists as reprints. One work of 1932, "Arthur Schnitzler: Studies in  Austrian Literature, Culture and Thought," was reissued this year by Ariadne Press.
        His most recent book issued in the United States was "Biblical Themes in World Literature" (1985). It was what he termed "an inexhaustible subject" that  had always fascinated him. He devoted much of his later research and writings to it.
        He also wrote "A History of Yiddish Literature" (1972) and "Historical Survey of German Literature" (1936). "Germany's Stepchildren" (1944) examined how German writers of Jewish origin dealt with that part of their heritage.
        Mr. Liptzin was born in Satanov, Ukraine, and was brought to New York when he was 9. He graduated from City College, did postgraduate work at the University of Berlin and earned a master's degree and a Ph.D. at Columbia University.
        His sojourn in Berlin awakened his interest in the romantic movement in German literature of the 19th century. He returned to the subject several times with books about its famous exponents, like the poet Heinrich Heine.
        From 1923 until his departure for Jerusalem, Mr. Liptzin taught at City College, where he served as chairman of the Department of Germanic and Slavic Languages for 15 years. He retired in 1963 as professor of comparative literature.
        Shortly after he became department chairman in 1943, he was able to convince  college officials that Yiddish was basically a Germanic tongue laced with Hebrew and Russian and should be taught as such at the college level. His success led other universities and international meetings of linguists to grant Yiddish the  same recognition.
        He was a founder of Bar-Ilan University and the American College in Jerusalem and taught at both for many years. He also founded the humanities program at Haifa Technion.
        He is survived by his wife, Anna Ohrenstein Liptzin; two daughters, Dr. Yelva L. Lynfield of Cedarhurst, N.Y., and Karen Sitton of Jerusalem; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      