
        Charles Gordone, who pioneered a polemical form of race-conscious theater with a blistering drama that made him the first black playwright to win the Pulitzer Prize, died Friday at his home in College Station, Tex. He was 70.
        The cause was cancer, said his former wife, Jeanne Warner.
        Mr. Gordone, an elegant man who had the copper-colored skin of a Native American and favored eccentric hats and rainbow love beads, was fond of telling  interviewers that he was "part Indian, part Irish, part French and part nigger." He was born in Cleveland, Ohio, reared in Elkhart, Ind., and moved to New York City in 1952.
        A struggling actor, Mr. Gordone found work -- and the material for the first  play he had written, "No Place to Be Somebody" -- as a waiter at Johnny Romero's bar in Greenwich Village. The play told the story of a black bartender named Johnny, a hustler who tries to hoodwink his way out of small-time swindles by fighting the white mob, but winds up shot and forced to close down his saloon.
        The play was produced on Broadway and won the Pulitzer Prize in 1970.
        Winning the Pulitzer seemed for Mr. Gordone to be both a blessing and a curse. The New York Times drama critic Walter Kerr proclaimed him "the most astonishing new American playwright to come along since Edward Albee."
        But with so much success crowded into one year of his life, Mr. Gordone set a standard for himself that the rest of his career never again approximated. He worked as a director and lecturer in community theaters around the country. He wrote a few other plays and was cast in a few bit parts in other people's plays. But he essentially fell off the theatrical radar. In 1982, Mr. Kerr asked, "Has  anyone seen hide or hair of the Pulitzer-Prize-winning Charles Gordone, whose 'No Place To Be Somebody' was once -- once -- so exciting?"
        Although his prominence may have diminished over the years, his activism did  not. In the 1960's, he fought for the inclusion of blacks in the performing arts as the chairman of the Congress of Racial Equality's committee for employment of Negro performers. In 1975, he worked with a group of inmates at the Bordentown,  N.J., Youth Correctional Institution on Clifford Odets' play, "Golden Boy," using theater as rehabilitation therapy.
        In the late 1980's, he weighed in on the controversial concept of nontraditional casting, arguing that minority actors should be included in realistic American plays, but not without acknowledging their ethnicity or the play's historical context. At the American Stage in Berkeley, Calif., Mr. Gordone himself cast Hispanic performers as migrant laborers in "Of Mice and Men," and a Creole actor as Stanley in "A Streetcar Named Desire."
        His play, "No Place to Be Somebody," has been revived several times over the  years by schools and regional theaters.
        In addition to his writing, Mr. Gordone was a member of the faculty at Texas  A & M University in College Station, where, until taking a leave in the spring,  he taught English and theater for the last nine years.
        Mr. Gordone is survived by his companion of 13 years, Susan Kouyomjian; two daughters, Judy McGee of Marino Valley, Calif., and Leah-Carla Gordone of Harlem; two sons, Petty Officer David Gordone and Stephen Gordon of Glendale, Calif., and nine grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 20, 1995, Monday
        An obituary yesterday about Charles Gordone, the first black playwright to win the Pulitzer Prize, omitted a survivor. She is his sister Shirley Gordon Jackson of Duarte, Calif.
      