
        Arthur Lubin, the Hollywood director whose more than 60 credits ranged from the lush 1943 remake of "Phantom of the Opera" to "Francis the Talking Mule" and its spinoff, the "Mr. Ed" television series of the 1960's, died on Thursday at the Autumn Hills nursing home in Glendale, Calif. He was 96.
        The nursing home put the age at 94, but his friend Critt Davis said Mr. Lubin had shaved two years off his real age. "This is Hollywood," Mr. Davis explained.
        Whatever his age, Arthur Lubin was as Hollywood as they come, a Los Angeles native who broke into the movies as an actor in the 1920's, became a director of highly successful action and mystery thrillers in the 1930's and then found even greater success directing a string of Abbott and Costello comedies in the 1940's.
        It was these that laid the groundwork for Mr. Rubin's emergence as a Hollywood visionary in 1949 when he managed to persuade skeptical studio executives that the American public, weary of war movies, was ready for a war whopper movie about an Army mule who not only talked but talked back to generals.
        The executives drove a hard bargain. Mr. Lubin, who had become enchanted by David Stern's novel about a talking mule responsible for an important Army victory in Burma in World War II, was forced to forgo a part of his fee and accept a percentage of the profits to win their backing.
        When the low-budget "Francis the Talking Mule," starring Donald O'Connor, became a runaway success in 1949, Mr. Lubin brayed all the way to the bank.
        In an article in The New York Times the next year, he said that the idea of giving directors and principal players a share of the movie wasn't half bad. "It's a new idea," he wrote, "and one that I think deserves serious consideration." The practice has since become a staple of film financing.
        Mr. Lubin rode Francis to the bank five more times, and then, with Francis transmogrified into a talking horse, transferred his success to television with the "Mr. Ed" series, starring Alan Young, from 1961 to 1965.
        He also directed Gene Lockhart in the feature film "Rhubarb" (1951), Maureen O'Hara in "Lady Godiva" (1955), Ginger Rogers in "First Traveling Saleslady" (1956), and Don Knotts in "The Incredible Mr. Limpet" (1966).
        Mr. Lubin, who grew up in Jerome, Ariz., and graduated from Carnegie Tech in 1922, returned to Los Angeles, initially as an actor both in films and on stage. In 1925 he and some fellow actors were arrested by the Los Angeles police and charged with putting on an obscene performance: Eugene O'Neill's steamy play, "Desire Under the Elms."
        Before Francis, Mr. Lubin's most noteworthy effort had been the first talking, or rather, singing, version of the 1925 silent movie classic "Phantom of the Opera." While this 1943 Technicolor "Phantom," starring Claude Rains, is widely regarded as the best of a string of remakes, it has also been criticized for devoting too much time and attention to the operatic singing of its co-star, Nelson Eddy.
        If Mr. Lubin's "Phantom" must inevitably suffer in comparison with the original, his time may be coming. Last year, Walt Disney Pictures bought the rights to the "Mr. Ed" television characters, and it is against the Lubin originals that "Mr. Ed" purists will measure the planned Disney version.
      