
        Hamilton H. Hobgood, who won national respect for the North Carolina judiciary when he presided over the racially charged Joan Little murder trial in 1975, died on Friday at Franklin Memorial Hospital in Louisburg, N.C.
        He was 87 and lived in Louisburg.
        If there were any doubts that a black convict accused of murdering her white jailer could get a fair trial in North Carolina, they were dispelled soon after  Judge Hobgood took his place behind the bench in Wake County Superior Court in Raleigh in 1975 as swarms of chanting demonstrators surrounded the courthouse.
        The case had aroused such deep-seated racial feelings that the trial had been moved to Raleigh from remote Beaufort County and Judge Hobgood had been handpicked by the Chief Justice of the State Supreme Court to preside.
        The defendant, Joan Little, a 21-year-old woman who had been sentenced to 7 to 10 years in prison after a conviction for breaking and entering the previous  year, stood accused of having stolen an ice pick from the jail office and using  it to kill a 62-year-old jailer after luring him to her cell as part of her escape from the Beaufort County jail.
        Miss Little, who testified in her own defense, acknowledged the killing, but  said it occurred after the jailer had used the ice pick to force her to perform  a sex act.
        Because of its mix of interracial sex and murder, the case drew national attention, so much so that one of Judge Hobgood's first judicial acts was to take the unprecedented step of ordering an entire room set aside for the scores  of reporters, courtroom artists and broadcasters who descended on Raleigh.
        Judge Hobgood's son, Robert, then a young lawyer and now, himself, a Superior Court judge, recalled yesterday that his father had received so many death threats from all sides that he was assigned a state bodyguard throughout the trial and that even more striking precautions were taken at the Hobgood family home in the small town of Louisburg, 25 miles outside Raleigh.
        "It was the first time in my life," he said, "that the door to our house was  locked."
        The selection of Judge Hobgood was hardly surprising. He had such a natural judicial temperament that his neighbors in Louisburg had made him a judge before he was a lawyer and such an aptitude for the law that he had become a licensed lawyer before he graduated from law school.
        During the emotional five-week trial, Judge Hobgood's affability was repeatedly tested. At one point he sentenced Miss Little's chief lawyer to serve two weeks in jail after the trial for contempt of court. At another he ordered one of her 35 assisting lawyers, William M. Kunstler, taken directly to  jail from court. He was released after two hours.
        In the end, it took a panel of six white and six black jurors less than 78 minutes to find Miss Little not guilty.
        Although it was by far his most famous case, it was hardly a special challenge for Judge Hobgood, who once estimated that he had presided over more than 60,000 cases.
        Born on a farm outside Louisburg, Judge Hobgood had to abandon his early plans to become a lawyer when the Depression forced him to drop out after a year in law school.
        He returned to law school, taking night courses at Wake Forest, after he was  elected judge of the old Recorders Court in 1938.
        In addition to his son, who succeeded him in 1979, Judge Hobgood is survived  by his wife, Margaret; another son, Charles, of Raleigh; a daughter, Betty Eidenier of Hillsborough, N.C., and six grandchildren.
      