
        Michael Sterne, a former real estate editor and travel editor of The New York Times, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 63.
        He died after a long illness, his wife, Geri, said.
        Mr. Sterne joined The Times on the rewrite desk in 1966 after a stint at The New York World-Telegram and Sun, where he covered everything from Congressional  elections and the decline of ethnic neighborhoods to royal visits and gangland slayings. He also wrote documentaries on drug addiction and housing for Channel  13 and was a commentator and moderator on some of its news programs.
        In his 26 years as a reporter and editor at The Times, Mr. Sterne held various posts. He was an assistant metropolitan editor, an urban affairs reporter and a correspondent based in London. When he returned to New York in 1974, he wrote about the economy of the metropolitan area.
        He was known as a quick and deft writer. Late one afternoon not long after he joined The Times, word came that Marianne Moore, the celebrated poet, moved from her beloved Brooklyn to Greenwich Village because she no longer felt safe in the fifth-floor apartment she had lived in for almost 40 years. Mr. Sterne raced to  the Village, persuaded Miss Moore to confide her fears and wrote a poignant article for the next day's newspaper.
        In 1978, he was appointed editor of the Sunday Travel section, and four years later, he assumed responsibility for the Sunday Real Estate section. In 1992, he was named editor of a new section called Your Money, which featured personal finance and consumer news. He retired the next year.
        Mr. Sterne graduated from Columbia University and received a master's degree  in history from Northwestern University. He returned to Columbia for two years of doctoral study in history.
        He was a board member of the Chapin School from 1977 to 1990 and elected a corporate trustee and a vice president of the board. He was also a member of the Vestry of Saint James' Episcopal Church and served on its executive committee, and was a member of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, a charitable organization founded in the 11th century.
        Besides his wife, survivors include two daughters, Evelyn Savidge Sterne of Newport, R.I., and Christie Savidge Sterne of Manhattan.
        Mr. Sterne's funeral is to be held at 1:30 P.M. tomorrow at Saint James' Episcopal Church at 865 Madison Avenue, at 71st Street.
      