
        O. Roy Chalk, an entrepreneur whose interests included real estate, airlines, bus companies, newspapers and a rail line that hauled bananas in Central America, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 88.
        Mr. Chalk, who had homes in Manhattan, Washington and Palm Beach, Fla., died  of cancer, according to his family.
        Mr. Chalk owned El Diario-La Prensa until the New York-based Spanish daily was sold to the Gannett Company in 1981.
        About three decades ago he started The Washington Examiner, a tabloid newspaper, and promoted it aggressively. The first morning it was published, riders on the District of Columbia Transit System's buses found free copies on board. They had been placed there under orders of the transit system's owner, Mr. Chalk.
        At the time, Mr. Chalk also owned Trans Caribbean Airways, which he had founded. Later, the airline was sold to American Airlines.
        It was through Trans Caribbean that Mr. Chalk ran an 800-mile rail line that  transported bananas in Central America. Trans Caribbean acquired the line, International Railways of Central America, in the mid-1960's, and Mr. Chalk became the line's chairman.
        International Railways had been hauling bananas for the United Fruit Company  for several decades and, after a quick study of the banana industry, Mr. Chalk announced that he just might get into the banana-growing business himself. He did, owning a banana plantation for a while.
        In 1959, Mr. Chalk tried to buy New York City's transit system, but city officials rejected the offer after weeks of serious consideration.
        In some ways, a Washington Monthly profile suggested in 1971, O. Roy Chalk was a man born in the wrong time. "Loosed on the previous century," the article  said, "Chalk might have been rewarded with fame, power and a lot more money."
        As it was, Mr. Chalk did quite well, earning a fortune large enough to indulge his fondness for art (he owned works by Renoir), travel, fancy cars, yachts and clothes, lots of clothes. Mr. Chalk owned dozens of suits, with shirts, ties and shoes to match. Some of his suits were fitted with both single-breasted and double-brested vests, to go with Mr. Chalk's whim of the day.
        But Mr. Chalk also gave money and time to cultural and charitable endeavors.  He was a regular at the opera, which he loved, and was sponsor of a lavish ball at the Plaza Hotel about 30 years ago to benefit the National Society for Crippled Children and Adults.
        Mr. Chalk was a founder of the American-Korean Foundation to foster closer ties between the United States and South Korea. The Government in Seoul gave him its National Medal of Honor and another tribute that his family said he cherished even more: honorary citizenship.
        Mr. Chalk was chairman of the United Nations finance committee for several years and was a prominent fund raiser for the Democratic Party in the 1960's. He also helped raise money for the United Negro College Fund and served on the Georgetown University Board of Regents.
        O. (for Oscar, a name he detested) Roy Chalk was born in Britain. His Russian-born father and Polish-born mother brought him to America when he was 3. "I'm a New York boy," he declared in 1959, when he was trying to buy the city's  transit system.
        He grew up in the Bronx with George and Ira Gershwin for neighbors and fielded sandlot grounders hit by a playmate who would later achieve a measure of success in Major League Baseball, Lou Gehrig.
        He graduated from New York University and its law school and learned about the real estate business from his wife's father. He learned well, eventually becoming owner of several New York City apartment buildings as well as his airline, which he started with two DC-3's.
        Surviving are his wife of 64 years, Claire; a daughter, Barbara Hubshman of Washington; two sisters, Blanche Wolther of Long Island and Helen Buckley of Florida; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 5, 1995, Tuesday
        An obituary on Saturday about O. Roy Chalk, whose business interests included real estate, airlines, bus companies, newspapers and a rail line, referred incorrectly in some editions to the timing of his sale of the Spanish-language newspaper El Diario-La Prensa to the Gannett Company. It was in 1981, not 25 years ago.
      