
        Dr. Hugh Hollingsworth Smith, a virologist who was a principal member of the  scientific team that developed the yellow fever vaccine for the Rockefeller Foundation in the 1930's, died on Monday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 93.
        Dr. Smith, in collaboration with Dr. Max Theiler, conducted the field trials  in Colombia and Brazil that proved the effectiveness of the 17D vaccine strain in 1937. The work was carried out by the International Health Division of the Rockefeller Foundation.
        In 1938, the New York foundation reported success, crowning an intensive eight-year effort by its research laboratories. Dr. Theiler, the leader of the team, was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for that achievement in 1951.
        Yellow fever, transmitted by mosquitoes, was for centuries a mass killer in much of the world. The 17D vaccine has saved a great many lives, including those of American soldiers fighting in World War II in regions prone to yellow fever.
        The 17D vaccine was administered by the millions of doses in the United States and elsewhere, and yellow fever has generally been banished as a fearful  public-health threat. Nonetheless, devastating epidemics with thousands of deaths broke out in Ethiopia and Senegal in the 1960's.
        Besides yellow fever, Dr. Smith's primary interests focused on tuberculosis and epidemiology. He continued his work in Arizona after retiring from the Rockefeller Foundation in 1954.
        He was born in Easley, S.C., and graduated from Davidson College in 1923. He  received his medical degree in 1927 at Johns Hopkins University, where he also earned a master's in public health in 1939.
        He joined the field staff of the Rockefeller Foundation in 1930. He was named assistant director of what was then the Division of Medicine and Public Health in 1944 and served as associate director from 1951 until his retirement.
        In Tucson, he taught microbiology and conducted research at the University of Arizona and founded the Tucson Society of Tropical Medicine. In 1978 he published his memoirs, "Life's a Pleasant Institution: The Peregrinations of a Rockefeller Doctor."
        Dr. Smith is survived by two sons, Peter H., an astronomer at the University  of Arizona, and Robert, an artist in Bozeman, Mont., and two granddaughters.
      