
        Clair R. McCollough, a radio and television executive who helped set industry standards as a longtime officer of the National Association of Broadcasters, died on Thursday in a nursing home in Lancaster, Pa. He was 92 and lived in Lancaster.
        Mr. McCollough retired in 1974 after a 44-year broadcasting career. His bases were WGAL-TV of Lancaster, which he helped establish in 1949 as one of the country's earliest television outlets, the old Steinman Stations chain in Pennsylvania and Delaware and Cable TV Associates of Lancaster.
        He was a founder of the licensing and copyright-protection company Broadcast Music Inc., known as B.M.I., and led the fight that ended censorship by states of films shown on television. He helped write broadcast agreements that the United States entered into with Canada and Mexico.
        He was the founding chairman of the Television Information Committee, a panel in Manhattan formed in 1959 to mend the tattered reputation of a scandal-ridden  industry. It was the time of rigged quiz shows, mendacious commercials and "payola" for disk jockeys and performers promoting records and products.
        The National Association of Broadcasters put Mr. McCollough, who later became the organization's chairman, in charge of a special committee to clean up the industry when Congressional and Federal investigators began to scrutinize it. His panel prescribed rules for the industry to police itself and get rid of unsavory practices.
        The national association gave him its Distinguished Service Award and called  him "one of the guiding forces in virtually every industry organization evolving from the development of radio and television broadcasting."
        He was involved in religious programming as chairman of the Department of Radio and Television of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A. and served on the  Broadcasting and Film Commission of the National Council of Churches.
        Mr. McCollough, who was born in York, Pa., started his career as an advertising salesman for Lancaster Newspapers. After its owners, John F. and J.  Hale Steinman, branched out into boadcasting in 1929, they asked him to head what later became a chain of 13 radio and television stations.
        In 1933, their stations -- four by then -- formed the country's first baseball network by putting the Philadelphia Athletics games on the air. In 1939 Mr. McCollough was named to the copyright commission that led to the creation of Broadcast Music Inc.
        He is survived by a daughter, Constance A. McCollough of Lancaster, and two sisters, Helen M. Moyer of Media, Pa., and Margaret Willard of Lancaster.
      