
        Bernard E. Witkin, a legal scholar who for some 60 years condensed and explained everything a lawyer or judge could want to know about California law,  died on Saturday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 91.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Witkin started his monumental compendium in 1928, the year he graduated  from Boalt Hall Law School at the University of California at Berkeley, when he  made carbon copies of the notes he took while preparing for the bar examination  and sold them to fellow students. He never practiced law himself but kept revising the notes for three more mimeographed editions of what he titled "Summary of California Law."
        Its first printed version, the fifth edition, appeared in 1936. In those years he worked for the California Supreme Court as a law clerk, and later as the reporter of decisions for that court and the Court of Appeal.
        Mr. Witkin kept updating right up to his death, using his manual typewriter though his books were by this time being published with a high-tech computer system and on CD-ROM. Thirty-two of his volumes are now in print, including, in  addition to "Summary of California Law," "California Procedure," "California Evidence" and "California Criminal Law."
        Mr. Witkin's output kept 11 lawyers and 7 paralegals busy at his publishers,  Bancroft Whitney of San Francisco. The compendiums, with periodic supplements, are works in progress found in every law library in California and cited in decisions issued by the California courts.
        He wrote the "Manual on Appellate Court Opinions," which is used in courts throughout the country. For many years he also taught aspiring lawyers and judges, leading the American Bar Association and American Law Institute in 1994  to present him with its Francis E. Rawle Award for his contributions to legal education.
        He and his wife, Alba Pichetto Witkin, established a charitable trust in 1982 through which they supported the Berkeley university community and charities like the Y.M.C.A. Building Fund and organizations serving children. Two months ago they jointly received the 1995 Benjamin Ide Wheeler Award for their contributions to the Berkeley community.
        Mr. Witkin, who was born in Holyoke, Mass., attended Berkeley before going on to law school. In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Cara Monson of Pioneer, Calif., and Lucy Davaly of Santa Rosa, Calif.; a son, Joel, of Guerneville, Calif., and a grandson.
      