
        Phillip Areeda, a Harvard Law School professor who was considered the country's foremost specialist on antitrust legislation and was writing the eleventh volume of his life work, "Antitrust Law," at his death, died on Sunday  in Cambridge, Mass. He was 65.
        Doctors at the Stillman Infirmary at Harvard said he had been under treatment for leukemia.
        My life has been teaching and writing," Professor Areeda said in a recent interview -- except for what he called a couple of "excursions" to Washington, including four years as a special counsel to President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Professor Areeda had taught at Harvard Law School since 1961 and was appointed the Langdell Professor of Law in 1981.
        One of his students was Robert Clark, now the school's dean. "He trained literally thousands of students to be precise, critical, careful and aware of alternative viewpoints," Mr. Clark said. He noted that Professor Areeda was an opera fan and said that may have influenced his teaching. "There was a certain drama to it, very exciting," he said.
        Professor Areeda himself said that when students being schooled through the Socratic method came up with "oddities and twists, the challenge is to guide the student from misunderstanding -- or perhaps profound insight -- back to the center line of the argument."
        Acknowledging that contemporary students might consider him a bit old-fashioned, he said, "My emphasis on not losing sight of the law may also make me old-fashioned.'
        ' In the 1990's, he noted, the teaching of law had become increasingly interdisciplinary, a development he applauded. But, he added, "In my classroom,  the students remember that they are doing law, not economics as such or sociology as such."
        Derek Bok, a law school classmate from 1951 to 1954 and later president of Harvard for two decades, said his longtime friend's devotion to his field of expertise, antitrust, grew out of twin interests in public policy and economics. "Antitrust law is where they intersected," Mr. Bok said.
        Mr. Areeda was an economics major as an undergraduate at Harvard.
        In the spring of 1994 Professor Areeda, in a response he gave to the Harvard  University Gazette to a question about the state of his subject, said: "Like all fields of law, antitrust ebbs and flows, sometimes with greater populist concern for protecting small firms from big ones. At other times, the emphasis is on economic efficiency.
        "The major change in the field," he said, "has been the growing awareness that business affairs are more complex than they might seem initially, and that  motivations for what initially appears to be a restraint of trade might in fact  in a more subtle way promote competition."
        As for his mammoth work, then nearing completion of Volume 10, he said: "I see a Volume 11 and, I'm afraid, a Volume 12. I attack a topic and work steadily at it almost to the exclusion of everything else, except for my teaching."
        Originally he expected the thesis to be completed in two volumes. Then he found himself writing a footnote that went on for some 20 pages.
        Associate Justice Stephen G. Breyer of the Supreme Court, a former Harvard Law School colleague, remarked several years ago that most lawyers would rather  have the support of "two paragraphs of Areeda on antitrust than four courts of appeals and three Supreme Court Justices."
        In 1988 Professor Areeda was the co-author, with Louis Kaplow, of what has become a standard textbook, "Antitrust Analysis" (Little, Brown).
        Phillip Areeda was born Jan. 28, 1930, in Detroit. A scholarship student, he  graduated from Harvard in 1951 and was later awarded a Harvard traveling fellowship.
        In addition to his four years in the Eisenhower White House, he served briefly in 1969 as executive director of the Cabinet Task Force on Oil Import Control under President Richard M. Nixon. For four months in late 1974 and early 1975 he was a counsel to President Gerald Ford.
        In October 1972 he was among 79 academics who took out full-page advertisements in The New York Times urging people to re-elect President Nixon.  A year later, in the wake of the Watergate, he and others voiced regrets for that action. "There's no way to put how I feel about that in a way I want to be  quoted," Professor Areeda said at the time.
        In moments of leisure away from his books and his classroom, Mr. Areeda tried to jog nearly every day and to indulge "a weakness for good food and good wine." His devotion to Harvard was reflected in his donation of more than $5 million earlier this year to the Harvard Law School -- the second largest gift from an individual in the school's history.
        Mr. Areeda was not married, and left no immediate survivors.
      