
        William Woodman, a theater director and a former artistic director of the Goodman Theater in Chicago, died on Dec. 19 in Manhattan. He was 63 and lived in New York City.
        He collapsed while having dinner in a restaurant and died of cardiac arrest,  said his former wife, Liz Woodman.
        Although Mr. Woodman directed on Broadway and on television and also staged  operas, he was best known for his work in regional theaters. As head of the Goodman Theater from 1973 to 1978, he was instrumental in bringing the company national recognition and in establishing a more experimental repertory, presenting works by David Mamet, Sam Shepard, Edward Bond and Studs Terkel, among others. Mr. Mamet's "American Buffalo" was one of the first plays presented in Mr. Woodman's theater program.
        He staged the American premiere of Brian Friel's "Freedom of the City" at the Goodman in 1973, winning a Joseph Jefferson Award for his direction. The following year the play moved to Broadway, the first transfer there from the Chicago company.
        In 1980 his environmental production of Orson Welles's "Moby Dick Rehearsed"  (with Delroy Lindo as Queequeg and Tyne Daly as Pip, the cabin boy) was a highlight of the opening of Helen G. Bonfils Theater Complex at the Denver Center for the Performing Arts. In 1988 he offered a staging of "Man and Superman," starring Frances Conroy and David Birney, at the Roundabout Theater Company. This season, he directed "Twelfth Night" at the Syracuse Stage in Syracuse.
        Mr. Woodman was born in Manhattan. He graduated from Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., and received a master's degree from Columbia University's School  of the Arts. He worked at the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn., and served as executive assistant to John Houseman and Michel Saint-Denis in the Juilliard School's drama division.
        He directed a television version of "Long Day's Journey Into Night" (with Ruby Dee and Earle Hyman) for the A&E network and "Diaries of Adam and Eve" for  American Playhouse on public television. Among the operas he staged were "La Dafne" at the Festival of Two Worlds in Spoleto, Italy, and "The Lighthouse" for the Chicago Opera Theater.
        He is survived by a sister, Winthrop Rich of Mission Viejo, Calif.
      