
        Dr. John H. C. Ranson, a surgeon at the New York University Medical Center who developed a widely used system for predicting the outcome of pancreatic disease, died on Thursday at the University of Arkansas Medical Center in Little Rock, where he had gone for treatment. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was complications from a bone marrow transplant for myeloma, the New York University Medical Center said.
        Dr. Ranson, who was director of the division of general surgery and the S. Arthur Localio Professor of Surgery at N.Y.U., helped improve the treatment of inflammation of the pancreas, which secretes digestive enzymes. Such inflammation, called pancreatitis, often affects people with gallstones or those who have been heavy drinkers. It can also arise from trauma, such as in a car accident.
        In 1974, Dr. Ranson published a set of criteria to use in determining the degree of illness in patients with acute pancreatitis, which can be mild or life threatening. The Ranson Criteria, as they are called, classify cases by correlating the information from blood tests with other physical signs, like how much fluid a patient needs to keep from becoming dehydrated. That information helps physicians choose appropriate treatments and identify the patients who are most at risk.
        Dr. Howard A. Reber, a professor at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center and the executive secretary of the American Pancreatic Association, said, "This was the first of the systems that allowed you to predict how severely ill these patients would be and their likelihood of survival."
        Dr. James H. Grendell, chief of the division of digestive diseases at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, added, "If a patient has a high Ranson score, that means you'd be more likely to admit to an intensive care unit, and it lowers the threshold for ordering additional tests."
        For that reason, said Dr. H. Kim Lyerly, a surgeon at the Duke University Medical Center in Durham, the Ranson Criteria "permeated all of medicine, being  used by surgeons, gastroenterologists and even your local doctor."
        The Ranson Criteria also helped researchers test new ways to treat pancreatic disease, Dr. Reber said. Before the criteria were available, it was difficult to say whether patients getting a particular treatment were as sick as those in the control group, and that made it hard to assess the effect of the treatment, he explained. Dr. Ranson's work, he said, "allowed us to do better research in patients with acute pancreatitis."
        Dr. Kenneth Eng, a colleague at New York University, said Dr. Ranson had also helped improve the treatment of pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer and liver disease.
        Dr. Ranson was born on Oct. 28, 1938, in Bangalore, India, where his father,  the Rev. Dr. Charles Wesley Ranson, was a missionary. He graduated from Oxford University in 1960 and from its medical school in 1963. He joined the faculty of the New York University Medical School in 1969 and became director of the division of general surgery there in 1992. He was the author, with Jeffrey Glazer, of the book "Acute Pancreatitis" (Saunders, 1988).
        Dr. Ranson is survived by his wife, Patricia, a daughter, Elizabeth, and a son, Jonathan, all of Manhattan, and a sister, Anne, of New Milford, Conn.
      