
        Darwin E. Smith, who led the growth of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation into a  consumer products giant, died on Tuesday after collapsing at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 69.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Lois Claire Archibold Smith.
        Mr. Smith, who was chairman and chief executive of Kimberly-Clark for 20 years until retiring in 1991, refocused and built the company, whose well-known  brands include Kleenex tissues and Huggies disposable diapers. Last July, the company announced plans for a $9.4 billion merger with the Scott Paper Company,  to create the world's largest tissue manufacturer.
        Mr. Smith had little interest in joining industry groups or high-profile executive associations. Instead, he channeled his attentions on Kimberly-Clark,  which was founded in 1872 in Neenah, Wis., as a newsprint business. The company  broadened its operations in the 1920's by introducing Kotex sanitary napkins and the first throw-away tissues, Kleenex. It also developed large interests in coated paper and book paper.
        Not long after he became chief executive, Mr. Smith sold off large interests  in coated paper and closed down inefficient mills, including one in Kimberly, Wis., a town named after the company. Later in the 1970's he pushed the company  into new products, particularly by revamping a disposable diaper, renamed Huggies, which would compete with Procter & Gamble's leading brand, Pampers.
        By the time of Mr. Smith's retirement, Huggies had become the nation's leading disposable diaper and accounted for about 23 percent of the company's $7 billion in annual revenues.
        Mr. Smith used the cash he raised from auctioning off paper mills and forest  lands to strengthen the company's consumer products division, making it less reliant on commodity products and providing higher returns for its shareholders. Out of the company's own operations, he even formed an airline, Midwest Express. The company later sold a majority holding in Midwest for a profit of more than $40 million.
        In 1985, he moved the company's headquarters to Dallas from Neenah.
        In the last 10 years of Mr. Smith's tenure, Kimberly-Clark was repeatedly cited by Fortune magazine as the most admired forest products company in the nation.
        Darwin Eatna Smith was born in Garrett, Ind., where his father, K. Bryant Smith, was a railroad engineer. He graduated with distinction from Indiana University in 1950. He later attended Harvard Law School, graduating cum laude in 1955, and took a position with a Chicago firm, Sidley, Austin, Burgess & Smith.
        In 1958, he joined the legal department of Kimberly-Clark at a salary of $15,000 a year, intending to stay only long enough to gain corporate experience. But he rose through the ranks and remained with the company for 34 years.
        At the time he became chairman, he learned that he had throat cancer and underwent radiation treatment, his wife said. Although the doctors said he would probably not live much more than a year, Mr. Smith regained his health and served as a vigorous chief executive.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Smith is survived by two sons, Steven B., of Lorena, Tex., and Blair A., of Duluth, Ga.; two daughters, Valerie C. Hunt of Winnetka, Ill., and Pamela C. Smith of Elm Grove, Wis., and eight grandchildren.
      