
        James E. Meade, an economist who won a Nobel Prize for his pioneering research into international trade and played an influential role in British politics, died on Dec. 22 at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 88.
        His family, which withheld announcement of the death until today, declined to specify the cause of death.
        Professor Meade, who was heavily influenced by the work of John Maynard Keynes, was best known for his work on trade and the international economy, for  which he shared the Nobel Prize in Economic Science in 1977 with Bertil Ohlin of Sweden. His research analyzed how government tax, spending and interest rate policies affect trade, and how trade policies affect economic welfare.
        Widely respected among economists for the quantitative rigor and detailed knowledge he brought to his work, he spent much of his life trying to apply the  lessons of his sometimes arcane work to practical public policy.
        His politics were left-leaning. He served as the chief economist to Britain's post-war Labor Government from 1945 to 1947, and was an adviser during the 1980's to the Social Democrats, a centrist party formed by defectors from Labor.
        During the era of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, Professor Meade argued that governments and central banks had gone too far in their emphasis on taming  inflation and that more emphasis was needed on creating jobs and reducing unemployment.
        Among the policies he advocated over the years for Britain was a "labor-capital partnership" in which employees would be paid partly in shares of the company for which they worked, and a system under which pay disputes would be settled on the basis of which outcome would create more jobs.
        In "Full Employment Regained?," published earlier this year, Professor Meade  argued that policies of addressing economic ills through education, training and increased investment "are concerned basically with raising the output per head of those who are in employment rather than about the number of heads that will find suitable employment."
        In an assessment in The New York Times of Professor Meade at the time he won  the Nobel Prize, Paul A. Samuelson, the economics professor who won the Nobel Prize in 1970, wrote: "The last of the utilitarians who trace from Jeremy Bentham, James Meade would give his cloak to a shivering beggar, not only because he feels it is right and fair to do so, but also for the reason that the beggar will receive more pleasure from it than a well-off professor of political economy."
        James Edward Meade was born in Dorset, England, on June 23, 1907. He graduated from Oriel College at Oxford University and then did post-graduate work at Trinity College at Cambridge University. It was at Cambridge that he encountered Keynes, who included him in a group of young economists would would  debate and test ideas that later formed the core of Keynes's "General Theory of  Employment, Interest and Money."
        After a stint teaching at Cambridge, he became an economist in 1937 for the League of Nations in Geneva, where he remained until the outbreak of World War II.
        During the war he helped manage economic policy for the British Government, and from 1945 until 1947 was director of the Cabinet's economic section under the post-war Labor Government.
        He then spent a decade teaching and doing research on trade at the London School of Economics, followed by another decade at Cambridge, where he was a professor of political economy until 1968.
        His most influential works, collectively known as "The Theory of International Economic Policy," were published in two volumes in 1951 and 1955.  In awarding him the Nobel Prize, the Swedish Nobel committee said that his work, like Ohlin's similar, earlier research, had attracted attention at the time of publication, but that the breadth and importance of his work did not "become obvious until the Sixties and Seventies in conjunction with the growing internationalization of the economic system."
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth, and by a son and three daughters.
      