
        Virginius Dabney, historian, author, journalist and a winner of the Pulitzer  Prize for editorial writing, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Richmond. He was 94.
        A native of Virginia and a grandson of a Confederate veteran, he was an early and steadfast opponent of segregation. For many years as the editor of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, he took stands against Southern sectionalism and fundamentalism that aroused protest from his conservative colleagues and neighbors.
        In a 1981 book, "The Jefferson Scandals: A Rebuttal," he challenged previous biographies that claimed that Thomas Jefferson had a long romantic relationship  with Sally Hemings, one of his slaves. Although Mr. Dabney's book was endorsed by several historians, one, C. Vann Woodward, took a more dispassionate approach in his review in The New York Times Book Review. He said the work "should be read as a brief for the defense rather than as a work of pure scholarship." Through his mother, Lily Heth Dabney, Mr. Dabney was a direct descendant of Jefferson.
        An outspoken and independent writer and editor, Mr. Dabney once said in regard to one of his books, "I'm going to say whatever I think I ought to say, and if they don't like it, that's just too bad." Tall and patrician, he remained a courtly figure throughout his life.
        He won the Pulitzer Prize in 1948 for his published attacks on the segregation of buses and streetcars in Richmond and for editorials seeking the end of the poll tax, which was designed to keep blacks and poor whites from voting.
        In the 1950's he drew criticism, however, for not taking a stronger stand against Virginia's role in resisting the Supreme Court's 1954 decision on school desegregation. In an interview in 1969, Mr. Dabney told The New York Times that  he had not personally supported "massive resistance" to desegregation but that his editorial page had not sufficiently criticized steps taken by the Virginia Democratic organization to avoid integrating the schools. He said he would have  insured that the paper opposed such policies editorially if he had been the owner of The Richmond Times-Dispatch.
        Still, for many years, he was known as a Southern liberal, and as a man who argued for the advancement of blacks before the civil rights movement took root.
        He was born in University (now Charlottesville), Va., on Feb. 8, 1901. He was named after his grandfather, Virginius, who was named for the state. Mr. Dabney's family had a long history with Richmond and with the University of Virginia. For 49 years, his father, Richard Heath Dabney, was professor of history.
        After graduating from the university, Virginius Dabney taught briefly, then switched to journalism. He began as a reporter on The Richmond News Leader in 1922 and in 1928 moved to the editorial staff of the Times-Dispatch. Six years later he became the chief editorial writer. By 1936, he was editor of the Times-Dispatch, a position he held until his retirement in 1969.
        His credentials as a progressive thinker were established with his first book, "Liberalism in the South," in 1932. Among his other books were "Below the  Potomac," "Dry Messiah: The Life of Bishop Cannon," "Virginia: The New Dominion," "Richmond: The Story of a City," "Across the Years: Memories of a Virginian," "Mr. Jefferson's University" and "Virginius Dabney's Virginia: Writings About the Old Dominion." In 1957 and 1958, he was president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors.
        He is survived by a sister, Alice D. Parker of Franklin, Va.; a son, Richard  Heath Dabney 2d, and two daughters, Lucy D. Leverty and Douglas D. Watkinson, all of Richmond; 10 grandchildren, six great-grandchildren and two stepgreat-grandchildren.
      