
        Adm. F. Julian Becton, who was at the center of a dramatic two hours of naval history when his destroyer survived a swarm of Japanese kamikaze planes off Okinawa in 1945, died on Monday at his home in Wynnewood, Pa. He was 87.
        The 2,200-ton U.S.S. Laffey, guns blazing, battled an onslaught by 22 suicide planes, 6 of which struck the ship. Two bombs also hit the ship; one jammed the  rudder of the Laffey, whose deck was a mass of flame.
        The Laffey's crew shot down eight or nine of the planes, but it paid a high  price: 31 crewmen were killed or unaccounted for, and 60 were wounded.
        Admiral Becton, then a commander, escaped injury. His deft maneuvering and the skill of his engineers were credited with bringing the Laffey, riddled like  a sieve above the waterline, back to Seattle for repairs. He received the Navy Cross for extraordinary heroism.
        It was not his first close call. He was in command of the destroyer Aaron Ward when she was part of an Allied convoy that was attacked off Guadalcanal in  April 1943. The Aaron Ward and two other vessels were sunk, but the enemy lost 39 planes.
        Admiral Becton was also decorated for the Laffey's support role in the invasion of Normandy and other wartime action. He received four Silver Stars, two commendation ribbons, two Presidential Unit Citations and the Croix de Guerre.
        Frederick Julian Becton was born in Des Arc, Ark., and graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1931. He served on battleships and destroyers, rising to the post of executive officer before being put in command of the Aaron Ward.
        He retired in 1966 and told the story of the Laffey and her crew in a book, "The Ship That Would Not Die" (Prentice-Hall, 1980).
        Admiral Becton is survived by his wife of 46 years, Elizabeth Reuss Becton; two daughters, Julie B. Becton of Wynnewood and Hilary B. Wagner of Warrington,  Pa.; a brother, John, of Hot Springs, Ark., and two grandsons.
      