
        Arthur J. Benline, an architect and engineer who served as New York City's Commissioner of Air Pollution Control in the Wagner and Lindsay administrations, died last Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 92 and had lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan for the last 43 years.
        Mr. Benline began work as a housing official under Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia. He served in a number of city and state posts before Mayor Robert F. Wagner named him his air pollution commissioner in March 1960.
        Until his retirement in 1966, Mr. Benline was regularly in the public eye with his outspoken complaints about the city's air quality. He pilloried polluters and railed at judges and other officials he accused of being too soft on them. He pleaded for funds so that he and his inspection force could fulfill their mission. He accused the Police Department and the Transit Authority of paying lip service to the problem of "obnoxious, stinking fumes" from buses and cars. And he complained that many "magnificent" buildings on the East Side "belch poisonous black smoke just as if they were a fleet of old-fashioned steamboats."
        Showing a flair for publicity, Mr. Benline once had a bevy of Rockettes atop 30 Rockefeller Plaza launch a cloud of experimental balloons to trace pollution patterns. The city, he said, exported far less dirty air than it received, being "the place at the end of a 3,000-mile-long sewer from the California coast."
        And then there were his seasonal admonitions against illegal burning of garden debris in the spring, leaves in the fall and Christmas trees.
        In retirement, he sharply criticized the Lindsay administration, which he accused of politicking with pollution, promising dramatic solutions that it could not deliver.
        Mr. Benline was born in Manhattan, the son of a builder. He received degrees in engineering and architecture from New York University and worked with leading concerns constructing theaters and commercial buildings. Before entering public service in 1938, he built city schools and hospitals for the Federal Public Works Administration.
        In World War II, he was a captain in the Navy, commanding 1,100 men in a special assault battalion of Seabees. Wounded at Okinawa, he won a Bronze Star.
        Mr. Benline's wife of 35 years, Peggy Cornell Benline, died in 1986.
      