
        Marshall Burns Williams, the President pro tempore of the South Carolina Senate whose legislative career of almost 50 years made him the longest-serving  State Senator in the United States, died on Thursday at Providence Hospital in Columbia, S.C. He was 83 and lived in Orangeburg.
        The cause was complications from heart disease, hospital officials said.
        Mr. Williams was first elected to the General Assembly in 1946 and served in the House of Representatives until his election to the Senate in 1953. He was elected President pro tempore in 1989 and was still in office at the time of his death.
        He had served longer than any other State Senator in the nation, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
        He came to the General Assembly in an era in which the legislature was dominated by rural whites, and then he made the transition to single-member districts, achieving unopposed re-election in an Orangeburg Senate district that has sometimes had a majority of African-American voters.
        "He survived numerous challenges and changes in South Carolina," said Alex Sanders, president of the College of Charleston and a former legislator. "He became a champion of the black interests and of South Carolina State College. There is a black intelligentsia associated with that university, and he held their confidence with tremendous political acumen."
        Mr. Williams, who practiced general law from 1936 to 1942 in Orangeburg, was  among a shrinking band of South Carolina politicians whose leadership credentials were forged in World War II. He rose to the rank of lieutenant commander in the Navy Air Corps in the island-hopping campaign across the Pacific.
        He graduated with a bachelor's degree from the University of South Carolina in 1933 and from the university's law school in 1936.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret S. Williams of Orangeburg; two sons, Marshall Burns Jr. of Barnwell, S.C., and Charles Hiram 2d of Orangeburg; a daughter, Ann Williams Platz of Atlanta; a brother, C. B., of Charleston; nine grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      