
        Sir Colville Deverell, who became the first full-time secretary general of the International Planned Parenthood Federation after a career as an administrator of British colonies, died on Dec. 18 at Wokingham, west of London. He was 88, and his family home was nearby in Henley-on-Thames.
        His death was reported on Thursday by The Times of London.
        From 1964 to 1969, Sir Colville was an outspoken secretary general of the federation, a private organization of autonomous family-planning groups in many  countries. In 1967 it comprised groups in 50 nations on five continents.
        At the World Planned Parenthood Assembly in Santiago, Chile, in 1967, he called on all governments to adopt programs to help their peoples make use of birth control.
        At the final session of that conference, attended by delegates from 87 countries and international organizations, he declared that being able to plan the number and spacing of children was "a contemporary human right" that governments and international bodies like the United Nations must support. But he said there were up to half a billion people of reproductive age in developing countries where little progress had been made in providing birth control information and services.
        Earlier, beginning in 1931, he held administrative posts in the West Indies and Africa and rose to be the Governor of the British crown colony of Mauritius, a group of islands in the Indian Ocean, from 1959 to 1962, when he retired from the British Colonial Service.
        The Times of London, in reporting his death, said his "second career was prompted by the experiences of his first one," in which "he observed at first hand the misery caused by unwanted pregnancies and the consequences of overpopulation in the third world."
        Sir Colville was born near Dublin into a family of Irish Protestants, studied at Trinity College in Dublin and at Cambridge and was a British Army officer during World War II.  He was knighted in 1957 and again in 1963.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret, and two sons.
      