
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne Faye. On January 21, at her home in St. Pardoux de Drone, France. Attended, as always, by her three devoted men, husband Peter; sons John and Paul. Also survived by her loving mother-in-law, Marie, sister Doreen, and many friends young and old. A woman of great vitality, creativity and love, blessed with the Eye. She died so reluctantly, too young. Memorial in honor of her life to be announced. Condolences to Le Mas de la Faye, St. Pardoux de D.,24600, Riberac, France.
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne, born July 6, 1937 in New York City, passed away on Tuesday, January 21, 1997, in Saint Pardoux de Drone, France. She was a registered nurse, received a BA from Fordham University, an MA with honors from New York University and was a doctoral candidate in Political Science at New York University. She is survived by her husband, Prof. Dr. Peter Berczeller, their two sons Paul and John, and her mother-in-law Maria. Through the family of her Austrian born husband, Adrienne was closely connected to the Austrian community in New York, which extends its heartfelt sympathy to the Berczeller family. The funeral will take place in Saint Pardoux de Drone, France.
        BERCZELLER - Adrienne F. Grace, charm and vitality marked this lovely woman. Adrienne Berczeller was one of a kind. Imbued with a gifted intellect, she was always a delight to be with-engaging, warm and compassionate-a friend beyond compare and a personality that sparkled. She departed from our midst much too early. To Dr. Peter Berczeller, a dear friend and inspired faculty colleague at NYC School of Medicine and Medical Center, and to sons, Paul and John, we extend our heartfelt sympathy. We join them in their personal sorrow, as do countless others who will always remember Adrienne as a unique, loving and stimulating friend. Doris and Saul Farber Martin Begun
        BERCZELLER - Adrienne. Her courageous, loving and open heart was as a warm and welcoming home no matter where she lived. Her grace, encouragement, friendship and generosity will be with me forever. She will be missed, loved and remembered. Jeffrey Vanefsky
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne. In memory of our dear friend. She was good. She was very, very good. We loved her and will miss her deeply. We embrace Peter, Paul and John. Dolly and Ira Berkow
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne Faye. Your incredible capacity for love, humor and life live on through your boys. How lucky we are to have them; how lucky they were to have you. Adam, Rosie and Mollie
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne. Dear Adrienne, to our very brave, dear friend, we shall miss you. We shall always remember you with love and pleasant memories, especially of Margaretville. Au revoir-Ina and Howie
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne. You so enriched our lives with your warmth and love, and along with Peter, Paul and John, we will miss you greatly-you left us too soon. Andrea and Seth
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne. Gifts of joy, love, spirit, faith and truth. The gifts of my special friend. The gifts that are forever as you are with me. Dona
        BERCZELLER - Adrienne. Al though our relationship was all too short our souls met long ago and will be together always. Hillary Finver
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne. Ever warm and courageous. Nancy and David Terri and Arthur
      