
        HARMON - Charles Myron, Jr. Age 62, of West Palm Beach, FL. Died January 8, 1997. Lived in West Palm Beach since 1988, coming from New Vernon, NJ. He maintained a summer residence in Chester, NJ since 1990. Born in Greenville, SC. Raised in Dunedin, FL. Mr. Harmon joined Goldman, Sachs & Co in 1966 and served as a general partner and member of the firms' investment Banking Policy Committee before becoming a limited partner in 1986. He was elected to Vice President of the Fixed Income Division and managed the Municipal Bond Division where he developed business relationships with most of the nation's state and local finance and investment officials. After many years as an executive in the investment banking industry, Mr. Harmon formed C.H. Investments of Flordia in 1987. Mr. Harmon is a limited partner of Harmon, Heppner & Landry, L.P. and Chairman of Hercules Engine Company. He has served as a member of the investment Committee of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, and as a trustee and member of the Executive Board of Southern Methodist University, the Pennington School and Newark Academy. Mr. Harmon has served on the advisory boards of the Edwin L. Cox School of Business at S.M.U. the Perkins School of Technology at S.M.U. Stern Graduate School of Business. Mr. Harmon received a B.B.A. from Souther Methodist University and a M.B.A. from New York University with graduate studies at Columbia University. Survived by wife, Germaine; daughter, Jennifer Gaffney of Farhills, NJ; sons, Charles Bradford Harmon of Chester, NJ. Paul Foulhaber Harmon and Timothy Britt Harmon both of Canton, Ohio; granddaughter, Caroline Elizabeth Gaffney of Farhills, NJ; sisters, Mary Wooten of Palm Harbor, FL, Yvonne Worner of Victor, Montana and Lois Hancock of Jacksonville, FL. A mass of the resurrection will be celebrated 11 AM Saturday, January 11, 1997 at St. Rita Catholic Church, 13645 Paddock Dr. Wellington, FL. Friends may visit at the Palms West Funeral Home, Royal Palm Beach, Friday, January 10, 1997 from 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Entombment at Our Lady Queen of Peace Catholic Cemetery, Royal Palm Beach, FL. Contributions to: Charles M. Harmon, Jr. Endowed Scholarship Fund, Southern Methodist University, P.O. Box 750402, Dallas, TX 75275-0402
      