
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. An outstanding person who came to our great country with courage, determination and a devotion to productivity, Etta Silverstein helped develop this country and city for the benefit of the generations to come. She devoted her life to her family and to worthy institutions. Young people benefited enormously from her dedication to help them develop their careers. Always full of enthusiasm and optimism, she was the favorite of many of us and to many students and faculty who benefited from her wisdom and generosity. She had a great deal of pleasure witnessing our students develop into the finest of physicians. Her son Larry and his spouse Klara, and their children and spouses were totally devoted to Etta, who was the glorious queen. Larry and Klara, leading citizens of our city and community, created an environment that was, and is, the gold standard for the care of parents. We at New York University School of Medicine and Etta's numerous friends mourn her passing. A wonderful friend has left our community and our institution. To Larry, Klara and their family, we extend our deepest sympathy. Saul J. Farber, M.D., MACP Provost and Dean, New York University Medical Center and School of Medicine
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. The officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds extend their deepest sympathy to Larry A. Silverstein on the passing of his mother Etta, a devoted supporter of the Israel Bonds program. Larry Silverstein is an honorary chairman and former general chairman of Israel Bonds' New York Real Estate Campaign and a member of the prestigious President's Club. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Larry, his wife Klara and the entire family. Gideon Patt, President William Belzberg, Chairman of the Board David B. Hermelin, International Chairman Susan Weikers-Volchok, International Campaign Chairman Burton P. Resnick, National Campaign Chairman Irwin Hochberg, Greater New York Chairman
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. On behalf of our entire organization, the partners of Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. wish to express their deepest sympathy and heartfelt sorrow to our longtime friend and colleague, Larry Silverstein, his loving wife Klara and his wonderful, loving children on the death of Larry's cherished mother, Etta. Staff and partners of Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. William Cohen Ronald Goldberger Barry Gosin Aaron Gural Jeffrey Gural Ira Fishman James Kuhn Arthur Lerner Marlene Post Arthur Rosenbloom
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. The Board of Directors, Faculty and Staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership extend deepest condolences to Larry Silverstein, his wife Klara, our esteemed Associate Chair, and the entire family on the passing of Larry's beloved mother, Etta. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Radine Abramson, Chairman Rabbi Irving Greenberg President Rabbi Irwin Kula, President-Elect Donna M. Rosenthal Executive Vice-Chairman
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. The Board and staff of The Educational Alliance wish to express our deepest condolences and heartfelt sympathy to Larry and Klara Silverstein on the death of Larry's beloved mother. Etta, an alumna and benefactor of The Educational Alliance, was truly a woman of valor who never forgot her early immigrant experiences at the Alliance. She and her wonderful family have enriched the lives of the less fortunate.
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. Chavin Lambert Advertising extends its deepest sympathies to our dear friend Larry Silverstein, and his family, in mourning the passing of Larry's beloved mother Etta. The Silverstein family has always stood for the truest example of family affection and devotion in celebration and in sorrow. We all learn from your love. The staff of Chavin Lambert Advertising
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends heartfelt condolences to our dear friend, Larry Silverstein, on the passing of his beloved mother. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Martin S. Begun, President Michael S. Miller, Executive Director
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. We wish to send our sincere sympathy to Larry Silverstein and his family on the death of his beloved mother Etta. Admired by many, Etta will be greatly missed. Irving Schneider Alvin Schwartz Helmsley-Spear, Inc.
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. Our heartfelt sympathy to Klara, Larry and the Silverstein families. It was a privilege to have known Etta. She was savvy, a gem, unique and inspirational to all who knew her. She will be very much missed and remembered. Joy and Walter Samuels
      