
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. The Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York mourn the passing of our distinguished and loyal member, Harry B. Helmsley. Our heartfelt sympathy and respect is extended to his wife, Leona.  Robert Selsam, Co-Chairman  Arnold Sollar, Co-Chairman  Jerome, Belson, President  Nicholas LaPorte, Jr. Exec. Dir.
        HLEMSLEY - Harry. Harry-Thank you for preserving the landmarked Villard Houses and for providing a beautiful home for us. You will always be fondly remembered.  The Board and Staff of the  Municipal Art Society of N.Y.
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of The Society of the New York Hospital and Cornell University Medical College are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed Life Governor and benefactor Harry B. Helmsley. A long-standing supporter of the Medical Center, his generosity and commitment have led to significant advancements in the areas of patient care, research and education. The Helmsley Medical Tower and The Helmsley Cardiovascular Center are his living memorials at New York-Cornell. Our deepest condolences are extended to his wife, Leona, and the Helmsley family.  John F. McGillicuddy  Chairman, Board of Governors  The Society of the
        New York Hospital  David B. Skinner, M.D.  President  The New York Hospital  Sanford I. Weill  Chairman, Board of Overseers  Cornell University Medical College  Antonio M. Gotto Jr. M.D.  Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean  Cornell University Medical College
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York are saddened by the loss of one of its leaders. Harry was one of the original founders of the Foundation and through its history, his dedciation to the goals and beliefs remained forever strong. The real estate world has lost one of its giants. A true pioneer, Harry had the ability to inspire and pave the way for the future of the city of New York and the real estate industry. His knowledge of New York and wisdom with respect to the future of New York are legendary. We will miss you Harry. We extend our sincerest condolences to Leona.  Larry A. Silverstein  Chairman  Jerry L. Cohen  President  Officers and Directors
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. The Real Estate Board of New York mourns the passing of distinguished New Yorker Harry B. Helmsley, his generations leading real estate entrepreneur whose achievements in every aspect of the profession set the highest standard for his colleagues. We also remember him as a mentor and inspiration to many who went on to splendid careers, a generous and thoughtful philanthropist, and a great friend. He will be deeply missed.  Bernard H. Mendik, Chairperson  Steven Spinola, President
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. It is with profound sorrow I mourn the passing of my friend and mentor, Harry Helmsley. Harry gave me my start in the real estate industry and for 29 years I was privileged to receive his wise counsel and to enjoy his friendship. I will always remember Harry for his honesty, integrity and generosity and I extend my heartfelt condolences to his wife, Leona.  Edward A. Friedman  Executive Managing Director  Newmark & Co. Real Estate Inc.
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. A rare combination of leader and visionary. His principles and vitality earned the respect of his peers, and enriched our city. Our sincere sympathy to the Helmsley family.  Julia Jacobs and Miller  Advertising Agency, Inc.
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. With so many achievements and so full a life, few may recall the important support provided by Harry Helmsley for persons with Alzheimer's Disease and their families, as he and Mr. Helmsley helped establish and funded the Helmsley Alzheimers Alert Program. This life-saving wanderers safety system has since been replicated nationwide as Safe Return. The NYC Chapter of the Alzheimers Association is saddened by the passing of this generous visionary and community leader. Our hearfelt condolences go out to his loving wife, Leona. May she find comfort in the memories of the many wonderful years they shared.  William M. Brachfeld  President  Marilyn Cohen, Co-President  John A. Joger  Executive Director
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. The Board, Staff, and Friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Harry B. Helmsley, a longtime friend and member of the Directors Emeriti Council, and former member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors. Harry served us with dedication and wisdom in many capacities over the years. From our early years and into the 1980's, he was a tireless supporter, as first chairman of the Physical Planning & Area Development Committee and member of the Executive Committee and General Service Committee, among others. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Leona.  Beverly Sills, Chairman  Nathan Leventhal, President  Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. You were a great industry leader and an inspiration to our membership. You will be missed.  Young Men's/Women's  Real Estate Association  of New York, Inc.
      