
        DYER-Jack, died in a tragic accident, Sunday, January 26, 1997. Adored and cherished by his wife Carolyn Abrams-Dyer. Father of Julia & Michael Dyer. Stepfather of Ali Frankel. Son of Cissy Brown and Adair Dyer. Stepson of Susan Dyer. Son-in-law of Bobbie Abrams. Brother of Gretchen, Julia and Stephen Dyer. Brotherin-law of Alan and Laura Abrams and Elizabeth Abrams. We all loved him so-services private.
        DYER-Jack. The development and public affairs committees of Beth Israel Medical Center and the Society for Beth Israel join the physicians and staff in noting with sadness the untimely passing of Jack Dyer, beloved son-in-law of our dear colleague, Bobbie Abrams. To Jack's wife, Carolyn, their children and all who loved him, we extend our deepest sympathies. Eugene Mercy, Jr., Vice Chairman, Board of Trustees, Chairman, Development Comm. David J. Stern, Chairman, Public Affairs Comm. Carol R. Maslow, Chairman, Society for Beth Israel Jane G. Blumenfeld, Vice President Development Kathleen McGovern, Vice President Robert L. Ginsberg Department of Public Affairs and Marketing
        DYER-Jack. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with great sadness the tragic passing of Jack Dyer, beloved son-in-law of our dear friend, Bobbie Abrams, a devoted member of our Board for 17 years. To our esteemed colleague, Bobbie, her daughter Carolyn, her grandchildren and all her loved ones, we offer our heartfelt condolences during this very difficult time. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Board of Trustees Robert G. Newman, M.D. President Jerome S. Breslaw, M.D. President, Medical Board
        DYER-Jack. The officers, leadership and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Jack Dyer, beloved husband of Carolyn Abrams Dyer, devoted brother-inlaw of Alan and Laura Abrams, and cherished son-in-law of Bobbie Abrams, an outstanding leader of the Jewish community and former officer of UJA-Federation. To Carolyn; to Bobbie; to Alan and Laura; and to the entire family, we extend our deepest sympathies. Larry A. Silverstein, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        DYER-Jack. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Association for New Americans, Inc., wish to convey to our esteemed board member, Bobbie Abrams, her daughter, Carolyn, and the family, heartfelt condolences on the tragic passing of Jack Dyer, Carolyn's husband. In this time of sorrow, our thoughts and prayers are with you. Michael S. Preston, President Mark Handelman, Exec. V.P.
      