
        GOLDHAIR - Milton, 83, of White Plains and Palm Beach, January 6. Loying and most devoted husband of Elayne. Adored and cherished father of Judy and Burt Resnick, and Richard and Debbie Goldhair. Dear brother of Lilyan Lipson. Beloved and adored grandfather of Scott, Jonathan and Sue, and Peter Resnick and Lucy and Sally Goldhair. Services on Thursday, January 9, at 12 Noon, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and 91st Street.
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. Bar-lian University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the loss of Milton Goldhair and extend our sincere condolences to his daughter Judith and her beloved husband Burton, Presidential Fo9unders of our university. Their extensive philanthroples in all the world must have been a source of great ''nachat'' to him and they must derive solace from that fact. May they and all the family find comfort in inspiring memories in the days ahead.  Rabbi Emanuel Rockman,  Chancellor, Bar-lian University  Prof. Moshe Kaveh,  President, Bar-lian University  Jane Stern Lebell,  President, American Friends  Brig. Gen. (Res) Yehuda Halevy,  Executive Vice President,  Bar-lian University
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. The President of Montefiore Medical Center and its Board of Trustees are profoundly saddened by the passing of Milton Goldhair, dear father of Judith Resnick and father-in-law of Burton Resnick, an esteemed member ofour Board of Trustees. Our sincere condolences are extended to his beloved wife, Elayne; Judith and Burton Resnick; his son Richard Goldhair and daughter-in-law Debbie, and to his entire family.  Spencer Foreman, MD, President  Jay B. Langner, Chairman  Board of Trustees  Montefiore Medical Center
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. Pops, thanks for being a great friend, teacher, and loving grandfather. We will never forget you and will cherish the times we spent together.  Love, Scott, Jonathan and Susie and Peter
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. Deepest sympathy to my dear friends Judy and Burt Resnick on the loss of her beloved father and my condolences to his dear wife, Elayne.  Diane Belfer
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. Beloved uncle, your bright smile will live within our hearts forever.  Love, Susan, Harvey, Andrew, Marc and Felicia
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. Dear Milt, we'll always remember your sweetness and love of family.  Love always,  Paula Stamier and Ira Resnick
      