
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. The Board, Staf, and Friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Harry B. Helmsley, a longtime friend and member of theDirectors Emeriuti Council, and former member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors. Harry served us with dedication and wisdom in many capacities over the years. From our early years and into the 1980's, he was a tireless supporter, as first chairman of the Physical Planning & Area Development Committee and member of the Executive Committee and General Service Committee, among others. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Leona.  Beverly Sills, Chairman  Nathan Levethal, Presidental  Lincoln Center  for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. On behalf of the partners and staff at Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. wish to express our hearfelt sorrow at the passing of a true legend, Harry B. Helmsley, who through his professionalism and philanthropic accomplishments, has forever left his imprint on our industry and our city.  Staff and partners of  Newmark & Company Real  Estate, Inc.  William G. Cohen  Ronald Goldberger  Barry Gosin  Aaron Gural  Jeffrey Gural  James Kuhn  Arthur Lerner  Marlene Post  Arthur Rosenbloom
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. The Real Estate Board of New York mourns the passing of distinguished New Yorker Harry B. Helmsley, his generation's leading real estate entrepreneur whose achievements in every aspect of the profession set the highest standard for his colleagues. We also remember him as a mentor and inspiration to many who went on to splendid careers, a generous and thoughtful philanthropist, and a great friend. He will be deeply missed. We extend our hearfelt condolences to Mrs. Helmsley.  Bernard H. Mendik Chairperson  Steven Spinola, Pres.
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. Harry B. Helmsley was the leading Real Estate professional of the 20th Century. His knowledge, acuity and reputation were unmatched. He was also a wonderful mentor, partner, client and friend for almost 50 years. We shall miss him greatly, but shall always honor his memory by preserving the heritage that he left in the buildings that he created and enhanced. We extend most sincere condolences to his beloved and most loving wife.  Peter L. Malkin  Wien & Malkin in LLP
        HELMSLEY - Harry B. Brown Harris Stevens, Inc. is deeply saddened by the passing of Harry B. Helmsley. We offer tribute to this great visionary who also was the owner and leader of our company for 25 years.
        Brown Harris Stevens
        HLEMSLEY - Harry B.  A leader, a visionary, an inspiration and a loyal client for many years. We extended our sincerest condolences to Mrs. Helmsley.  Jim Richards  MSRI/Richards Group Advertising
      