
        GOLDHAIR - Milton, 83, of White Plains and Palm Beach, January 6. Loving and most devoted husband of Elayne. Adored and cherished father. of Judy and Burt Resnick, and Richard and Debbie Goldhair. Dear brother of Lilyan Lipson. Beloved and adored grandfather of Scott, Jonathan and Sue and Peter Resnick and Lucy and Sally Goldhair. Services on Thursday, January 9, at 12 Noon, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and 91st Street.
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. Dear Dad, we will miss your humor, generosity, smile and your love of family. We will cherish you and will be always thinking of you.  Your loving children  Richard and Debbie
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine express deep sorrow on the passing of the beloved husband of Elayne; father of Judith (and Burton P.) Resnick - AECOM Benefactors and Founders - and richard (and Debbie) Goldhair, AECOM Founders. Mr. and Mrs. Resnick and their family have played a prominent role in the Medical College's development. Burton Resnick is chairperson, AECOM Board of Overseers, and chairman, Executive Committee, YU Board of Trustees; Judith Resnick is a member, National Board of Directors, AECOM Women's Division, and honorary president, Westchester-Fairfield Chapter; Richard Goldhair is a member, AECOM Young Men's Division. They have brought great pride to their late father, whose influence on them will continue to their children as well. Heartfelt condolences to grandchildren and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.  Dr. Norman Lamm, President  Yeshiva University  David S. Gotteman, Chairman  Board of Trustees  Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean  Albert Einstein  College of Medicine
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Milton Goldhair. He and his family ahve been distinguished leaders and very generous philanthropists. His daughter, Judy Resnick, is active in our Women's Campaign. His son-in-law, Burton P. Resnick, was general chair of the annual campaign, and is now a leader in our Real Estate Division. To his wife Elayne; children Judy and Burt Resnick, and Richard and Debbie Goldhair; and his grandchildren Scott, Jonathan and Sue, Peter, Lucy, and Sally, may you be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.  Larry A. Silverstein, Board Chair  Louise B. Greilsheimer, President  Charles R. Borrok, Campaign Vice  Chair and Real Estate Div. Chair  Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. The National Women's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of the beloved father of our dear friend Judith Resnick, who has been a source of inspiration to the Division's Westchester-Fairfield Chapter, as well as to our organization as a whole. Our hearts are with Judith, National Board Member and honorary Westchester-Fairfield Chapter president, her husband, Burton P. and their entire family during this time of sorrow.  Nancy Oelbaum,  President  National Women's Division  Judy R. Rosenberg,  Chairwoman  Board of Directors,  National Women's Division
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff wish to extend our heartfelt sympathy to Board member, Judith Resnick, on the apssing of her father, Milton Goldhair. We extend our deepest condolences to the Goldhair and Resnick families.  Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman  Co-Chairmen  Herman S. Sandler, President  Albert Schussier, Pres. Emeritus  Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Director
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. The Officers and Executive Committee of State of Israel Bonds Real Estate and Construction Division mourn the passing of the father of Judith Resnick, whose husband Burton P. Resnick is the esteemed immediate Past Chairman of the Divsion and Israel Bonds' 1997 National Campaign Chairman. We express our deepest condolences to Judy, Burt and the entire family.
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. Papa was a dear fellow. He was funny and taught us a lot of things and we'll treasure them forever. If you knew him, he would touch your heart as he did ours. If you had a problem, he would be there to help you.  Love, Lucy and Sally
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of the father of Judith Resnick and the father-in-law of Burton P. Resnick. Mrs. Resnick is former Chairwoman of Israel Bonds' Westchesterd's Women's Division. Mr. Resnick is Israel Bonds' 1997 National Campaign Chairman and immediate Past Chairman of the New York Real Estate and Construction Division. We express our deepest condolences to Judith, Burt and the entire family.  Gideon Patt, President  William Beizberg,  Chairman of the Board  David B. Hermelin,  International Chairman  Susan Weikers-Volchok  International Campaign Chairman  Michael Siegal  North American  Campaign Chairman  Irwin Hochberg, Greater N.Y.  Chairman
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the passing fo Milton Goldhair. We extend our sincere sumpathy to his wife Elayne, daughter Judy Resnick and her husband Burton, son Richard and his wife Debbie, his grandchildren and the entire Goldhair and Resnick families. We hope that your loving memories of Milton will ease your sorrow during this time of sadness.  The Hebrew Home for the Aged  at Riverdale  Milton A. Gilbert, President  Bernard Goldberg, Chairman,  Board of Directors  Jacob Reingold, Vice Chairman,  Board of Directors  Daniel Reingold, Executive VP
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. The Board and staff of The American Friends of The Israel Museum and of The Israel Museum, Jerusalem, are-deeply saddened by the death of Milton Goldhair, father of our Board member Judy Resnick. The Resnick family ahs been instrumental in the development of The Israel Museum Ruth Youth Wing's Teachers' Training Center. We send our sincere condolences to Judy and Burt and the whole family.  Maureen Cogan, Chairman, AFIM  Judy Steinhadt, Pres. AFIM  James S. Snyder,  Anne and Jerome Fisher  Director, IM  Michele Cohn Tocci, Exec Dir,
        AFIM
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Washington, D.C. mourns the passing of Milton Goldhair, beloved father of Judith Resnick and father-in-law of Burton Resnick, Founders of the museum. We express our sorrow to the entire family, and pray God will comfort and console them.  Miles Lerman, Chair  The Council, Staff and  Friends of the U.S. Holocaust  Memorial Museum
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. DOROT's staff, board, volunteers and elders mourn the loss of the beloved father of Honorary Board member Judith Resnick. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Judith and her husband Burton, and to the entire Goldhair and Resnick families at his most difficult time.  Renee Adler Ascher, Pres.  Vivian Fenster Ehrlich, Exec. Dir.
        GOLDHAIR - Milton. A special love. I will miss you forever. Our condolences to Elaine, Judy and Burt, Richard and Debbie and families.
        Dorothy Widder,  Charles and Allison Opolinsky and  Jill and Brad Siegel
      