
        HYMAN - Edith Wolfson Barnett. On January 12, 1997. Born in Glasgow, Scotland, 1902. Devoted wife of the late Esmond Barnett and the late Ralph Hymna; dearly bloved and cherished mother of Adele Suslak and Victory J. Barnett and mother-in-law of Helaine Barnett; loving sister of Rosie Wolfson Martyn, Dolly Wolfson Raisler, Bebe Wolfson Steinberg, and the late Sam Wolfson, Sir Isaac Wolfson, Charles Wolfson, Jeannie Wolfson Williams, Eva Wolfson Gerber, Esther Wolfson Levy, Bette Wolfson Schapiro; adored grandmother of Brian and Annette Suslak, Neil Suslak, Valerie Suslak, Pamela and Joe Gerraioli, Craig and Jennifer Barnett, and Roger Barnett; and dear great-grandmother of Lauren Suslak and loving aunt and great aunt of many nieces and nephews. She will be remembered always for her abiding love of amily, her elegance, grace and kindess. Her unique spirit, optimism and great inner strength served as a model for her familya nd touched the lives of so many people throughout the world. She will always be loved and forever missed. Funeral services January 13, 1997, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave, at 12:30 PM.
        HYMAN - Edith Wolfson Barnett. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member, mother of its honorary President, Mr. Victory Barnett, and mother-in-law of Mrs. Lainie Barnett, grandmother of Craig and Jennifer Barnett, Roger Barnett, and sister of Mrs. Robert K. Raisler. Heartfelt sympathy is extended to the bereaved family.  Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi  Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres.  Shelley S. Goren, Chairman  David Yagoda, President
        HYMAN - Edith Wolfson. Cherished sister of the late Bette Wolfson Schapiro. Beloved aunt of Stuart, Joan, Gerald and Barbara Schapiro. You will be missed but will be remembered always with love.  Joan and Stuart Schapiro  and Family  Barbara and Gerald Schapiro  and Family
        HYMAN - Edith Wolfson Barnett. A gracious, hospitable and loving lady. We had a unique and happy relationship with her as we enjoyed loving the children and grandchildren we shared in common; and the memory of those years will ever remain precious to us.  Helen and Harry Meresman
      