
        GINSBERG - Edward. The officers and staff at National United Jewish Appeal mounr the passing of Edward Ginsberg, UJA General Chairman from 1968 to 1971, and UJA President from 1971 to 1974. Following the Six-Day War, Mr. Ginsberg, led a UJA leadership team to Israel to survey the war's impact on immigrant absorption and report back to the American Jewish community. The resulting campaign exceeded all other UJA fund-raising efforts including those of the post-World War II and Nazi Holocaust years. His dedication to Israel an the Jewish people included serving as Trustee of United Israel Appeal, Chairman of the Join Distribution Committee, and Vice President of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society. A Life Trustee of the Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland, Mr. Ginsberg was also the recipient of the Charles Eisenman Award, the Federation's highest honor. His leadership and dedication will be greatly missed. To his wife, Rosalie; his children, William and Robert; daughters-in-law, Inger and Jan; grandchildren, Tracy and Amy; his sister, Mildred Sindell, and the entire family, we extend our deepest condolences.  Richard L. Wexler,  UJA National Chairman  Richard L. Pearlstone,  UJA President  Bernard C. Moscovitz,  UJA Vice President,  Chief Operating Officer
        GINSBERG - Edward. The Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) deeply mourn the passing of our Honorary President, Edward Ginsberg, who served as JDC President from 1972-74. A warm and committed man, he was deeply involved in Jewish affairs locally, nationally and internationally. His distinguished leadership of National UJA resulted in the most successful fundraising effort in American Jewish history. During his presidency, many advances were made in JDC's services to Israel, Europe and North Africa. He received many awards in recognition of his work on behalf of the Jewish people everywhere. Our candolences to his wife, Rosalie, and his sons, William and Robert.
        Jonathan W. Kolker, President  Michael Schneider, Executive VP  Ambassador Milton A. Wolf,  Chairman of the Board
      