
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. On January 15, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Larry and Klara, and the late Annette. Adoring grandmother of Roger and Liana, Lisa, Sharon and Annette, Laurie, Kevin and Lori, Todd and Julie. Great grandmother of Rachel, Robby, Ariel, Cory, Marty and Zachary. Also survived by her sister Elizabeth. Service Friday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Etta Silverstein, beloved wife of the late Harry Silverstein; and devoted mother of Larry A. Silverstein, UJA-Federation's chairman of the board, and his wife, Klara Silverstein, co-chair of Our New York Metropolitan Campaign, and the late Annette Mendik. Etta, a true ''eishet chayil,'' was the matriarch of an outstanding philanthropic family. Her charitable work in immunology and respiratory medicine helped save many lives. Her concern for the infirmed, and her commitment to higher education, was the impetus for her generously providing medical school scholarships to needy students. The altruistic endeavors of Etta and Harry became the foundation for Larry and Klara, two of the most generously philanthropic and outstanding leaders of our generation. We are grateful for the immeasurable and extraordinary guidance they provide to our community. Among their previous positions, Larry has served as chair of the Real Estate Division, and chair of the Campaign; Klara was chair of the Women's Campaign. Etta instilled the Jewish value of tzedakah in her children; Larry and Klara follow in her footsteps by involving their children as well. Their son, Roger, has taken his father's lead by his commitment to our Real Estate Division and to the community at large. The Silverstein family is a pillar in the charitable world; their devotion to Jewish and secular communal service is an inspiration for generations to come. We send our deepest condolences to Larry and Klara; Etta's grandchildren: Roger, Liana, Lisa, Sharon, Annette, Kevin, Lori, Laurie, Todd, Julie; great-grandchildren, Robby, Cory, Rachel, Ariel, Zachary, Marty; and the entire family. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P. Jeffrey R. Solomon, C.O.O.
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. New York University extends its profound sympathy to University Trustee Larry A. Silverstein, his wife Klara and their children, Roger, Sharon and Lisa on the death of Larry's dearly beloved mother, Etta. The Silverstein family, led by Etta Silverstein, has over the years come to epitomize the NYU family. Having embraced the mission and vision of NYU as her own, Etta Silverstein demonstrated a genuine involvement and a long-standing commitment in support of the NYU Medical Center, the Real Estate Institute, student loans and scholarship fund and the general enhancement of student life at NYU. Moreover, Etta Silverstein grasped the critical importance and infinite value of a superior education and was a devoted champion of Jewish causes. For her generosity, grace, humor, marvelous spirit, great inner strength and many, many kindnesses, she will always be cherished and forever missed. Laurence A. Tisch Chairman of the Board L. Jay Oliva President
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. Tzivos Hashem extends its most heartfelt condolences to its esteemed friend and benefactor, Larry Silverstein, on the passing of his beloved mother. She was a woman of valor and her glory is reflected in her children and in their good deeds. May the entire Silverstein family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Yerachmiel Benjaminson Exec Director
      