
        KRAINIK-Ardis. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our esteemed colleague and beloved friend, Ardis Krainik. Virtually synonymous with the Lyric Opera of Chicago, she was one of the great figures of the opera world. We had the privilege to work closely with her on many occasions, allowing us ample opportunity to admire her creative spirit, artistic wisdom, and devotion to excellence. A staunch champion of new works, she brought enthusiasm, optimism, and courage to everything she did, serving as an inspiration to every professional in the field of opera. Her contributions to the operatic life of this country are inestimable, and we shall miss her deeply. We extend our sincerest sympathy to her family, to all her friends, and to our colleagues in Chicago. Joseph Volpe, General Manager James Levine, Artistic Director
        KRAINIK-Ardis. The Board of Directors of The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns the death of Ardis Krainik, the distinguished general director of The Lyric Opera of Chicago. Her many artistic and administrative accomplishments set a standard of excellence that has immeasurably benefited the cause of opera in our country and, indeed, the world. We extend our sympathy to her family, friends, and all those who were blessed by her presence for so long at The Lyric Opera of Chicago. James W. Kinnear, Chairman of the Board Bruce Crawford, President and Chief Executive Officer Board of Directors, Metropolitan Opera Association
        KRAINIK-Ardis. New York City Opera mourns the passing of our friend and colleague. One of the leading lights in the operatic world has been extinguished and we are all diminished by the loss. Her contributions to our art form have been enormous, and her enthusiasm and vision for opera in the next century has inspired us. She will be missed. We extend our condolences to her family and to our friends and colleagues at The Chicago Lyric Opera. Paul Kellogg General and Artistic Director
        KRAINIK-Ardis. Although a Pavarotti admirer, myself, who rued her decision, she, like Laszlo Halasz, promoted the performances of American performers and composers. Wagner and the financial stability fared well under her aegis. Kenneth Lane, Wagnerian Heldentenor, Lake Hiawatha, New Jersey
        KRAINIK-Ardis. The Board of Directors of the Richard Tucker Music Foundation sadly notes the passing of Ardis Krainik. A dedicated leader in the field of opera and strong supporter of young singers, her vision and her leadership will be missed. Jeffrey S. Tabak, Chairman Barry Tucker, President
      