
        FAY-Valle Weber. Of Rowayton, CT, who led the efforts to revitalize South Norwalk in the late 1970's and 80's, died Wednesday night in Norwalk Hospital of complications following an emergency operation. Beloved wife of Francis X. Fay, Jr. and loving mother of Valle Gaynor Blake of Brighton, MA, was 77. As Founder and President of the Norwalk Preservation Trust in 1977, Mrs. Fay arranged the educational programs and forums that redirected the focus of Norwalk's urban redevelopment from demolition to rehabilitation. Concurrently, as one of five Norwalk Redevelopment Agency Commissioners, she influenced the agency between 1978 and 1981 to adopt the rehabilitation of the Washington Street Historic District, a project that won two national awards in 1988. Mrs. Fay was one of five cited in the US Department of Interior Historic Preservation Award for the ''creative use of contemporary historic preservation techniques.'' The project was also selected and she was cited for the Downtown Development Award of the Downtown Research & Development Center of NYC, ''as a demonstration of public/private partnerships creating a vibrant downtown.'' ''Valle was the inspiration behind the city's approach to restoring the wonderful assets of South Norwalk,'' said former Mayor William A. Collins, who had appointed her to the Redevelopment Agency. ''I don't belive we could have gathered enough strength in the community to support the program without her effort.'' ''Valle was the pivotal person, and her voice was the stongest in saving the South Norwalk heritage despite the tremendous opposition at the time,'' said Rod Johnson, former Redevelopment Agency Excecutive Director. Mrs. Fay's interest in architectural antiquity had been inspired as a youngster by visits to St. Genevieve, Missouri, 60 miles south of St. Louis. Her paternal ancestors, the LaVallee family, had been among the early settlers in that first white development of Missouri (1735), and had produced three governors general of what was then known as the Louisana Territory. Mrs. Fay was Chairman of the Norwalk Green Historic Commission, Trustee and Secretary of the Lockwood-Mathews Mansion Museum and served twelve years as a member and Vice Chairman of the Norwalk Historical Commission. Mrs. Fay had been Post Master of the Rowayton Post Office from 1961 to 1963. She had been a trainee with the Women's Air Service Pilots (WASP) during WW II. She was cited for her accomplishments in 1995 by Celebrate Women!, a Norwalk organization honoring women's achievements. Mrs. Fay was born in St. Louis on March 5, 1919, and raised in nearby Webster Groves, MO, the only child of the late John A. and Ethel Bass Weber. She was a gradaute of Mary Institute (1936) in the St. Louis area. She also attended Mills and Barnard colleges. She was predeceased in 1969 by a son, Robert E. Blake III. A memorial program will be held at 7 PM, February 2, at the Norwalk Maritime Aquarium. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Norwalk Museum, 141 East Ave., Norwalk, CT 06851, or the Norwalk Maritime Aquarium, 10 Water St, South Norwalk, CT 06854.
      