
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne Faye. On January 21, at her home in St. Pardoux de Drone, France. Attended, as always, by her three devoted men, husband Peter; sons John and Paul. Also survived by her loving mother-in-law, Marie, sister Doreen, and many friends young and old. A woman of great vitality, creativity and love, blessed with the Eye. She died so reluctantly, too young. Memorial in honor of her life to be announced. Condolences to Le Mas de la Faye, St. Pardoux de D.,24600, Riberac, France.
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne Faye. In loving memory of Adrienne Faye Berczeller. ''In the golden lightning of the sunken sun, o'er which clouds are bright'ning, thou dost float and run; like an unbodied joy whose race is just begun. Mike and Lizzie Henty Tim Gell, Bonnie Leeds, Jolie Mulvany
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne. Alma and Stephen Flesch mourn the death of their friend, January 21, 1997, in France. Her illness was unforgiving but her spirit was unbowed and she died as she had lived, a woman of valor. Our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Dr. Peter Berczeller, to her sons Paul and John and to her mother-in-law Maria.
        BERCZELLER - Adrienne. We cherish every single moment that we were able to spend together. We admired you when you fought back with courage and with your unbreakable spirit. We will always be grateful for what you meant to us and we will never stop to keep you in our hearts. Anna and Joachim
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne. A fabulous, loving friend who lived with true ''joie de vivre'', dignity, courage and incredible sense of humor. You are loved and will be deeply missed. A BientotVeronica and Ernie Chambers Katie and Chris
        BERCZELLER - Adrienne. We mourn the loss of a great friend, but we will remember her with great love. We know the grief of Peter, Paul and John and we hope our sympathy and understanding comfort them. Beth, Carl, Andrew, and Stef Lieberman
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne. ''Comfort, softness, love were her trinity; everything important could be touched through skin and the other senses. Yes, that's the definition of a mother. But she had talent.'' We love you mom. Paul and John
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne, Nurturer, confidante, my mentor's wife, my best friends' mother, brilliant cook and conversationalist. I will miss her unequalled sense of style and the way she decorated the world with her projected Beauty. Nick Restifo
        BERCZELLER - Adrienne. Warmth, generosity, compassion, curiosity, energy without bounds and love without qualification-we miss our friend acutely. She died unfairly soon, but we will always remember who she uniquely was. Carol and Eamon Brennan
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne. Of N.Y. and Dordogne, France. She will be remembered by her friends as socially caring, esthetic, and a soul who radiated warmth. We extend condolences to her family. Jorge Letelier, Sheryl Rock
        BERCZELLER-Adrienne. Dearest Adrienne, you are so treasured, so loved, so missed. From the English daughter you never had. Lyndsay, Marc, Aldo
      