
        ULLMAN - Gerald Howard, on December 30, 1996 in Scottsdale, AZ, formerly of 51 Fifth Avenue, New York City. Loving husband of his late wife, Marcia Dubey Ullman. Survived by his second wife Susie Press Ullman; his son Steven M. Ullman and daughter Marjorie Ullman; grandchildren Jerry and Michael Ullman. Mr. Ullman graudated with honors from Dartmouth College and Harvard Law School. Prior to enlistment in the U.S. Army in 1941 he served on the staff of Assemblyman Irving M. Ives (R), Majority Leader. Upon his honorable discharge as Captain in 1946, Mr. Ullman again served U.S. Senator Ives in Washington, D.C. Thereafter he was counsel to two New York state legislative committees under Republican New York States Senators McNeil Mitchell and Seymour Halprin. Mr. Ullman began his private law practice in New York City in 1948 specializing in international ocean transportation. He was General Counsel for the National Customs Brokers and Forwarders Association along with many other firms including freight forwarders, customs brokers, steamship lines, customs brokers, steamship lines, NVOCCs, motor property brokers, exporters and importers, and public warehouses. During his more than forty years in practice, Mr. Ullman litigated shipping issues extensively in federal trial and appelate courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court and often appeared before Congressional committees on shipping matters. Mr. Ullman drafted the 1961 amendment providing of the licensing of ocean freight forwarders and participated in the drafting of the Shipping Act of 1984. In addition, Mr. Ullman recently served as lead counsel before the U.S. Supreme Court obtaining a final ruling holding unlawful restrictive and costly union requirements (the ''50 Mile Container Rule'') that seriously impeded movement of U.S. exports and imports. This victory has been described as a major contribution candidate for New York State Assembly in 1960 and 1962, and for civil court in 1969. Mr. Ullman was described by the nonpartisan Citizens' Union as ''a distinguished and able lawyer ... who is highly regarded for his ability and high integrity.'' Mr. Ullman was the author of the books ''The Ocean Freight Forwarder, the Exporter and the Law,'' and ''U.S. Regulation of Ocean Transportation Under the Shipping Act of 1984,'' which are widely used in shipping circles, in law schools, and by merchant marine academies. In addition, Mr. Ullman wrote extensively in law journals in the United States and Europe on the legal issues involved in the intermodal movement of traffic and has had articles cited by the U.S. Supreme Court. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, January 5th at 12:30 PM at the Village Temple, 33 East 12th Street, NYC.
      