
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. New York University's School of Continuing Education and its Real Estate Institute extend sincere condolences to the Institute's founder and Chairman Emeritus, Larry A. Silverstein, and his family on the death of his mother, Etta. Through the influence of her warmth, strength, and intelligence, the Silverstein family has made extraordinary contributions to the School, the University, and the community as a whole, with Larry's visionary leadership of the Real Estate Institute serving as an outstanding example. It was a great joy to have known her and experienced her energetic generosity, and a great sorrow to mourn her passing. Dr. Gerald A. Heeger Dean, NYU School of Continuing Education Arthur Zabarkes Associate Dean, Real Estate Institute
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. On behalf of our entire organization, the partners of Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. wish to express their deepest sympathy and heartfelt sorrow to our longtime friend and colleague, Larry Silverstein, his loving wife Klara and his wonderful, loving children on the death of Larry's cherished mother, Etta. Staff and partners of Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. William Cohen Ronald Goldberger Barry Gosin Aaron Gural Jeffrey Gural Ira Fishman James Kuhn Arthur Lerner Marlene Post Arthur Rosenbloom
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York extend their hearfelt condolences to our Chairman, Larry A. Silverstein, his wife Klara and their entire family on the loss of Larry's mother, Etta. May her legacy of philanthropy, her spirit and warmth remain forever strong and bring comfort to the family. She was dearly loved and she shall be deeply missed by all who knew her. Jerry L. Cohen, President Charles R. Borrok, Executive Vice President H. Dale Hemmerdinger Executive Vice President Officers and Directors
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. The Real Estate Board of New York extends its sincere condolences to our esteemed past Chairperson, Larry A. Silverstein, on the passing of his mother Etta. She set a high standard for philanthropy that her family has carried on to the benefit of our entire community. She will be remembered with great affection and respect. Bernard H. Mendik, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        SILVERSTEIN-Etta. Etta. What a gal. Everyone loved Etta. ''To laugh often and much, to win the respect of intelligent people, and the affection of children; ..To find the best in others; to leave the world a bit better; ..This is to have succeeded.'' She had spirit; she had love. And best of all, she was Etta. She will be missed by everyone. Brian Marlowe
      