
        HALSEY - Bryant. Age 85, a retired executive from the Cafritz Company of Washington, D.C. and a real estate consultant with national and international affiliations died on Wed. January 1, 1997. Mr. Halsey was born in Manhattan and attended Choate School and majored in architecture at Princeton University. He began his real estate career with Douglas L. Elliman in NYC in 1935. During W.W.II he served as a Lieutenant Commander in Naval Intelligence anti-submarine activities. After the war he established his own consulting firm. He was involved in the development of many diverse projects including the Pan Am Building in N.Y. Main Pl. in Dallas and 20th Century City in L.A. He was a developer and builder of single family homes and projects. In 1957, he built the Ideal Home for Better Homes and Gardens Magazine in Morristown, NJ. In 1963, Mr. Halsey moved to Washington, D.C. to become President of Westminister Investing Corporation which purchased 78 properties including 7 Corners Shopping Center. Subsequently he became economic consultant to the National Corporation for Housing Partnerships. Mr. Halsey retired as president of the Cafritz Company in Washington, D.C. in 1992. Mr. Halsey was widely recognized for his imaginative and innovative approach to developing and financing commercial real estate. He attributed much of his talent to the training he received from his father, Charles Bryant Halsey, who among many other projects inititated the commerical development of upper Madison Ave, NYC, which in 1913 was a residential area. Mr. Halsey had been a member of the National Association of Home Builders, the N.Y. Real Estate Board, the Washington Board of Realtors and the Fairfax County Industrial Development Commission. He had also been a Trustee of Lambda Alpha (Land Economics Society), a director of the NJ. Home Builders Association and a member of the Advisory Board of the Fairfax County National Bank. Affiliations include the Princeton Club of N.Y. the Rumson Country Club in N.J. and the City Tavern in Washington, D.C. Mr. Halsey was an avid yachtsman & hand been a member of the Larchmont and Manhasset Bay Yacht Clubs in N.J. the Sailing Club of the Chesapeake and the Classic Yacht Club of America. Among the many boats he had owned was the ''Richard Smith'', an 81 foot bugeye built in 1880. After residing in NYC, N.J. and then Arlington, Va. for the last 27 years, Mr. Halsey and his wife moved in 1994 to their new home on Dividing Creek on the Chesapeake Bay near the town of Kilmamock, Va. where Mr. Halsey continued his love of the water and sailing. Mr. Halsey is survived by his wife, Loraine, a son, Charles Bryant III of Sterling, Va. a daughter, Hilary Lynn Halsey of Burke, Va. and three grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, January 4, 1997 at 2:00 PM at the Wicomico Parish Church, Va. In lieu of flowers the family request that any tributes take the form of contributions to The Wicomico Church Memorial Fund, P.O. Box 70, Wicomico Church, Va. 22579. ''Bryant Halsey was a true sailor. He felt the wind, and rode out the storms in antiticipation of favorable winds hin the following days.''
      