
        CUNNINGHAM-Francis J. Major U.S. Army (Retired), 82 and the beloved husband of Dorothy Cunningham, died at his home in Venice, FL, on Monday, February 24, 1997. Born in Chicago, IL, October 3, 1914, Frank was the son of James Cunningham and Katherine Fitzpatrick Cunningham. He graduated from DePaul University in Chicago, and joined the Corporate Trading department of the investment banking firm of Kidder, Peabody & Co, Inc, in NY, in 1936. In June of 1942, Frank was inducted into the U.S. Army and was commissioned as a First Lieutenant at Fort Benning, GA in 1943. In World War II, he served with the 29th Infantry Regiment overseas in Iceland, Scotland, England, France, Belgium, Holland and Germany, and was wounded in the Battle of the Bulge in the Ardennes Breakthrough, for which he received the Purple Heart. He was also awarded the Legion of Merit and the Bronze Star for Bravery beyond the line of duty when he took over command of his unit after his Captain was killed on the battlefield. In the fall of 1945, Frank returned to Westport with the rank of Captain, after which he earned his Majority serving in the Army Reserves. He resumed his position with Kidder, Peabody & Co, Inc, in 1945 and was made a Senior Partner of that firm in February 1952. After serving as a member of the Board of Governors of the National Association of Security Dealers (NASD) from 1969 to 1971, he became Vice Chairman in 1971. He also served on the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC) until his retirement from Kidder, Peabody & Co Inc, in 1972. During the 27 years he lived in Westport, Frank was active in forming the Saugatuck Fathers' Club for which he served as President for many years. He was also President of the Compo Beach Improvement Association. For the last 20 years of his residence in Westport, he headed the planning and directing of the Memorial Day parade, serving several times as Grand Marshall. After moving to Venice, Fl in 1975, Frank and Dorothy enjoyed playing golf at the Lake Venice Golf Club and the Buck Hill Falls Golf Club for over 20 years. In addition to his wife, Dorothy, Frank is survived by a brother, Bernard J. Cunningham, of River Forest, IL, three daughters; Sheila Perry of Amsterdam, NY, Gail Cunningham Coen of Westport, CT, Blithe Dotson of Newtown, CT, five grandsons, three granddaughters and one great-grandson. He is also survived by his first wife, Toni Cunningham of Westport, from whom he was divorced in 1973. He was predeceased by a sister, Mary Morrison, and a brother, James William Cunningham. For information Harding Lewis Funeral Home Westport, CT, Burial will be in Willowbrook Cemetery in Westport. There will be no calling hours. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the American Cancer Society.
      