
        FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library mourn the loss of Lawrence Fleischman, devoted husband of Trustee Barbara Fleischman, and esteemed friend of the Library. His deep personal affection for and commitment to The New York Public Library and to our Library for the Performimg Arts and its staff will be forever remembered. A passionate collector and scholar of art and antiquities, Mr. Fleischman's interest and generous philanthropy have had a profound and lasting impact on cultural institutions in New York, in the nation, and abroad. We will always be grateful for his wisdom and dedication to our Library. Our deepest sympathies to his wife, Barbara, and to his children, Rebecca, Arthur, and Martha. Elizabeth Rohatyn, Chairman Paul LeClerc, President Brooke Russell Astor, Honorary Chairman Marshall Rose and Andrew Heiskell, Chairmen Emeriti
        FLEISCHMAN - Lawrence A., Chairman of Kennedy Galleries Inc. New York, died on January 31 in London. He is survived by his wife, Barbara; his three children Rebecca, Arthur, Martha, and grandchild Jennifer. Funeral services will be private. A memorial service will be held at a future date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to American Friends of the British Museum, 575 Lexington Av., Suite 410, NY 10022.
        FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Lawrence A. Fleischman. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. The International Fine Print Dealers Association notes with sorrow the passing of one our esteemed members, Lawrence A. Fleischman, Chairman of the Kennedy Galleries. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. He championed American paintings and sculpture, and was an influential dealer in American prints. Sylvan Cole, President
      