
        KENT - Arthur. Our Council mourns the passing on February 9 of longtime former president of Local 11 of the National Assoc. of Broadcast Technicians and member of our executive board for many years. His involvement with the trade union movement and the broadcasting industry began with the Voice of America during WWII. He later worked on such top shows as Milton Berle's ''Texaco Star Theater,'' Sid Caesar's ''Your Show of Shows,'' and Jack Paar's ''Tonight'' show. Always organizing, promoting the teaching of labor history and the use of union professionals, he helped found the NYC Chapter of the National Academy of TV Arts & Sciences (NATAS), and was its presdient at the time of his death. He helped re-open the Astoria Sudios and establish the Museum of the Moving Image. A warm, self-effacing man, he was the consummate professional and trade unionist. We will miss his energy, dedication and commitment. Condolences are extended to his wife Jeannette and their children, Martin, Stephen and Susan. In lieu of flowers, the family would prefer a donation to the Arthur Kent Scholarship Fund of the NYC Chapter NATAS (1560 Broadway, NYC 10036). NYC Central Labor Council Brian M. McLaughlin, President Ted H. Jacobsen, Secretary Margaret Samuels, Treasurer
        KENT-Arthur. February 9, 1997. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of The New York Chapter of NATAS, the flagship chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts & Sciences, mourn with great sadness the passing of our President, dear friend and colleague, whose splendid leadership, commitment, and devotion to the academy's ideals were marked with significant accomplishments. He will be sorely missed and we extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Jeannette and his children, Stephen, Martin and Susan. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Arthur Kent Memorial Scholarship Fund of the Foundation of the New York Television Academy, 1560 Broadway, New York, New York 10036.
        KENT-Arthur. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Will Rogers Memorial Fund note with the most profound sorrow the passing of Arthur Kent, a distinguished member of the Board. He had a deeply felt dedication to our organization and to the concept of helping the less fortunate and those in need of medical assistance. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. We have all lost a great friend. The Will Rogers Memorial Fund Martin Perlberg, Exec Director
      