
        STODDARD-Thomas B. The board and staff of Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund mourn the death of Thomas B. Stoddard, civil rights champion and Lambda's former executive director. To lesbians, gay men, people with HIV and AIDS, and Lambda in particular, Tom was not just a part of our civil rights struggle, he was an irreplaceable leader and friend. As Lambda's executive director from 1986 to 1992, when the country rarely saw such a persuasive and confident gay activist demanding public attention and respect, Tom taught us the power of pride, dedication, and even humor. He was another of the great leaders of our civil rights struggle who kept fighting until his death. The force of his eloquence and intellect, and his determination to continue the fight for justice even in the face of his own illness with AIDS, inspires Lambda and many others for the future. Lambda expresses sympathies to Tom's spouse, Walter Rieman, and other members of his family. Kevin M. Cathcart, Executive Director Shedrick O. Davis, III Gale Richards, Co-Chairs of the Board of Directors Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund
        STODDARD-Thomas B. The entire New York University Law School community mourns the passing of one of our most distinguished and public-spirited alumni and faculty colleagues, Tom Stoddard. He was a brilliant student, a sage and committed counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union and the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, and a person of wit, vivacity, and learning. Although rightly noted for his pathbreaking advocacy and teaching concerning the rights of lesbians and gays, Tom was a committed all-around civil libertarian who was dedicated to establishing equality for all groups in society and to protecting their free speech and other constitutional rights. Tom was also a warm and caring friend who will be sorely missed by all who came his way. We extend condolences to Walter Rieman and other members of Tom's family. Martin Lipton, Chair NYU Law School Trustees John E. Sexton, Dean Norman Dorsen Sylvia A. Law Co-Directors, Arthur Garfield Hays Civil Liberties Program.
        STODDARD-Tom. We, the Board of Directors and Staff of The American Foundation for AIDS Research, mourn the loss of our most valued colleague, treasured friend, and Co-Chairman of our Board. We have come to reply daily on his judicious counsel and penetrating insight, while admiring his deep sense of a quality and his high moral standards. We have benefited from his cheerful determination and steely focus. And, most of all, we have cherished his never-failing inspiration to complete our work and find a cure for AIDS. Our love goes to Walter, his beloved partner. We will miss Tom. We already do. Mathilde Krim, Chairman Chairman of the Board Elizabeth Taylor, Founding National Chairman Art Ammann, President Jerry Radwin, Chief Exec. Officer American Foundation for AIDS Research
        STODDARD-Thomas B. The Board, Staff, Volunteers and Members of the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center mourn the passing of our beloved friend and colleague, Tom Stoddard. Tom was a leader in the struggle for the civil liberties of lesbian and gay people. Our love and thoughts are with his lover, Walter Rieman. We are forever indebted as a community for the courage Tom showed us, the freedom he struggled to ensure for us, and the goals which he set for us and to which we continue to aspire. We will miss him more than words can say. Judith E. Turkel, Esq President Richard D. Burns, Esq Executive Director Lesbian & Gay Community Services Center
        STODDARD-Thomas. The Board and Staff of the New York Civil Liberties Union mourn the death of a former board and staff member, colleague and friend. We will miss Tom's thoughtfulness and dedication to civil liberties. His idealism and vision of a society where everyone is treated fairly & justly will always be remembered. His long-time commitment to equality principles, and his special dedication to the rights of gays and lesbians will be a cornerstone of his legacy. We extend our condolences to his partner Walter Rieman & other family members. Steven Hyman, President Norman Siegel, Executive Dir. NYCLU
        STODDARD-Thomas. The Board and Staff of the Treatment Action Group (TAG) mourn the loss of our friend and supporter, Tom Stoddard. To all those that fight for the lives of people living with AIDS and for civil rights for gay men and lesbians, he was a true hero. Tom was a tireless fighter on behalf of AIDS Research as a trustee of AmFAR and a founding supporter of TAG. While today's advances in AIDS treatments came to late to save Tom, his legacy is the renewed hope felt by many for longer, healthier lives, and an eventual cure. Our love and thoughts are with his lover Walter, and with his family.
        STODDARD-Thomas B. The Paul Rapoport Foundation notes with sadness the passing of our friend, Tom Stoddard, whose many good works have been instrumental in the growing recognition and protection of the civil rights of gay men and lesbians. A man of grace, heart, and conviction, Tom leaves behind a community of men and women whose liberties are more assured and whose lives have been enriched by his skillful, caring efforts over many years. Our sympathies are extended to Walter Rieman, his family, and his many friends. Jed Mattes, President Jane D. Schwartz, Executive Dir.
        STODDARD-Thomas B. The Board and staff of the Empire State Pride Agenda mourn the loss of a pioneer gay rights, civil rights and AIDS advocate. Tom was an early effective and eloquent voice for the gay and lesbian community in our state capital. His example of courage, commitment, intelligence and coalition building will continue to inspire us in our work. Jeff Soref and Sue Cowell Co-Chairs, Board of Directors Dick Dadey, Executive Director
        STODDARD-Thomas. The Board, staff, and volunteers of the Hetrick-Martin Institute mourn the loss of our friend and benefactor, Tom Stoddard. The young people we serve live with greater opportunities in a less confusing world because of his courage and tireless devotion to the cause of lesbian and gay civil rights. We will miss him and we honor his memory. Clyde Jones, President Verna Eggleston, Exec Director The Hetrick-Martin Institute
        STODDARD-Thomas B. All of us at Gay Men's Health Crisis join in mourning the loss of Tom Stoddard, our incomparable ally in the fight against AIDS. Ardent leader, visionary, and fearless warrior for the rights of gay men, lesbians, and people living with AIDS, Tom changed the world. His memory will continue to inspire us always. Louis Bradbury, Board President Mark Robinson, Exec Director Gay Men's Health Crisis
        STODDARD-Tom. The advisory committee of the Royal S. Marks Foundation Fund of the New York Community Trust celebrates our colleague, Tom Stoddard. His integrity, good spirit, humor and passion for justice are an enduring blessing. Gerald Friedland, M.D. Sharon B. King Donald P. Kotler, M.D. Carol Levine Vincent McGee
        Stoddard-Tom, Esq. The Board and members of LeGaL extend heartfelt condolences to Walter Rieman and the rest of Tom's family. Tom was an indefatigable champion of the legal rights of lesbians and gay men, a peerless lawyer and activist, and a long time member of LeGaL. We shall miss him. The Lesbian and Gay Law Association of Greater New York
        STODDARD-Thomas B. We mourn our friend, leader and hero whose memory will be preserved by each step forward and each victory for lesbians and gay men across the country. He was the ultimate role model of the positive image we strive to broadcast and emulate. The Board and Staff of In the Life Television
        STODDARD-Tom. Tom Stoddard didn't sit on the side lines. He was involved and cared. May his life and work encourage all of us to do likewise. Warmest condolences to Walter Rieman, the Stoddard family and Tom's many friends. The Aaron Diamond Foundation Irene Diamond, President Vincent McGee, Exec Director
        STODDARD-Thomas B. We mourn the passing of our former Board member. A great leader, pioneer in the fight for civil liberties, fearless visionary, focused activist. He is our history and our future. The Board of Directors Stonewall Community Foundation
      