
        INNISS-Charles E. The Board of Trustees, the Central Administration, the College Presidents, the faculty, students and staff of The City University of New York deeply mourn the passing of Trustee Charles E. Inniss. Appointed to the Board by the Governor in 1992, he served with great distinction and honor, chairing the Fiscal, Facilities, and Presidential Search Committees and the CUNY Construction Fund. His dedication to the University's mission, his love of education, and his extraordinary service to the community will have an enduring impact. He will be sorely missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. James P. Murphy, Chairman Board of Trustees W. Ann Reynolds, Chancellor
        INNISS-Charles. The Board and staff of The Studio Museum in Harlem mourn the loss of our inmediate past-Chairman, Mr. Charles E. Inniss. Charlie was chairman from 1992 through 1996 and was also the Museum's first Executive Director in 1968. His years of distinction and dedicated service were critical to the Museum's development. We will miss his vision, compassion and humor. Our sympathies go out to his wife, Marjorie, his brother, Wilbur and his entire family. Chairman of the Board, Mr. George L. Knox Kinshasha Holman Conwill, Director
        INNISS-Charles E. The faculty, students and staff of The Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York mourn the passing of Charles E. Inniss, member of the CUNY Board of Trustees and Chair of the City University Contruction Fund. We are deeply grateful for the unfailing support and guidance he devoted to making possible our new campus. We offer our sincere condolences to his family. Frances Degen Horowitz, President
        INNISS-Charles E. The Brooklyn Union Gas Company mourns the passing of Charles Inniss, beloved friend and revered colleague. His caring spirit, leadership and commitment to the community were an inspiration to all who knew him. He left us a legacy to treasure. We remember him with great love and affection. To his wife, Margorie, and to his entire family, we extend our sincere condolences. Robert B. Catell, Chairman & CEO
      