
        PERLMAN-Julian, on February 1, 1997. Loving father to Tom and the late Jane Elizabeth. Husband of the late Jane. Brother to Murray Perlman and Charlotte Walsh. Son-in-law of Anne Norris. Friend to Sylvia Wolf. A kind and devoted uncle. Services Tuesday 12 P.M., at Temple Israel of the City of NY, 112 East 75th Street. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
        PERLMAN-Julian. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem and American Friends of The Hebrew University are deeply saddened by the sudden loss of its great friend, Julian, president of The Norman and Rosita Winston Foundation. Together with his late wife, Jane, the Perlmans and The Hebrew University shared a long and close relationship. Deeply concerned for the future of the State of Israel, through their leadership the Foundation became a Benefactor of The Hebrew University, generously supporting important programs including the Harry S Truman Research Institute for the Advancement of Peace, The Winston Fellows at the Institute for Advanced Studies and Gateway to Learning grants at The Rothberg School for Overseas Students, among others. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire family. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Prof. Hanoch Gutfreund, President Alex Grass, Chairman, International Board of Governers Amb. Moshe Arad, Vice President for External Affairs Prof. Moshe Ma'oz, Director, Harry S Truman Research Institute for the Advancement of Peace Harvey M. Krueger Samuel Rothberg Robert H. Smith Honorary Chairmen American Friends of the Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President Lawrence Newman, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        PERLMAN-Julian S. The Officers and Board of the American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, mourn the tragic and untimely loss of a devoted friend, Julian S. Perlman, director of the Norman and Rosita Winston Foundation. The Foundation is a generous and long time benefactor of Ben-Gurion University. We extend our deepest sympathies to the beloved members of his family. Kenneth L. Tucker, President Harold L. Oshry, Chairman of the Board Kenneth M. Farber, Executive Vice President Lis Gaines, Greater NY Metropolitan Regional Chairperson
        PERLMAN-Julian S. It is with great sadness that the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Julian Perlman. His generosity of spirit and encouragement informed his thoughtful philanthropy and enriched us all. His good cheer, wisdom and friendship will be missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and colleagues at the Norman and Rosita Winston Foundation. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        PERLMAN-Julian. Fordham University School of Law records with profound sorrow the passing of Julian Perlman, a dear friend, whose support of our Public Interest Resource Center through the Norman and Rosita Winston Foundation was enormously important and whose counsel for over ten years as a founding member of our Board of Visitors was deeply appreciated. We extend our sincere sympathy to his son, Thomas, his brother, Murray, his sister, Charlotte, his mother-in-law, Anne Kuff Norris and to his family. John D. Feerick, Dean
        PERLMAN-Julian. The Board and staff of The American Friends of The Israel Museum and of The Israel Museum, Jerusalem, are deeply saddened by the death of Julian Perlman, Director of the Norman and Rosita Winston Foundation, a generous donor to our projects and activities. We send our sincere condolences. Maureen Cogan, Chairman, AFIM Judy Steinhardt, Pres., AFIM Michele Cohn Tocci, Exec. Dir., AFIM James S. Snyder, Anne and Jerome Fisher Director, IM
        PERLMAN-Julian S. Ballet Master in Chief Peter Martins, Chairman of the Board Eugene P. Grisanti, President of the Board Gordon B. Pattee, and the dancers and staff of New York City Ballet mourn the passing of Julian S. Perlman. Julian's passion for performance, along with a vast knowledge and abiding love of dance, informed our lives and art for many years. A great man and dear friend of the Company, his memory will be cherished for the spirit and caring that marked the time he shared with us.
        PERLMAN-Julian S. The 92nd Street Y notes with sadness the passing of Julian S. Perlman. His spirit lives on in the good work of The Norman and Rosita Winston Foundation, Inc. whose commitment to the performing arts has touched the lives of thousands in our community. We extend our deepest condolences to his entire family. Joseph Leff, President Daniel Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Sol Adler, Executive Director
        PERLMAN-Julian. The Board of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the death of Julian Perlman, who was a wonderful friend of the arts, an avid theater lover and enthusiast who encouraged and supported the aspirations of this theater. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John Beinecke, President Andrew Heiskell, Joan Cullman, Vice Chairs Elizabeth Peters, Secretary Robert Linton, Treasurer
        PERLMAN-Julian S. The Eldridge Street Project mourns the untimely death of its adored Chairman, Julian Perlman. Warm, wise, inspired and inspiring, gentle, thoughtful, gracious, modest and joyful. No words are enough. They don't come any better. Roberta Brandes Gratz, Pres. Meyer S. Frucher, Vice Chair Michael Weinstein, Secretary William Josephson, Treasurer Amy Waterman, Exec. Director
        PERLMAN-Julian. Peter Martins and the entire School of American Ballet family note with sadness the death of Julian Perlman. He was a generous friend and a terrific pool party host. Condolences to his family.
        PERLMAN-Julian. The Board of Directors, shareholders and staff of 815 Park Avenue mourn the untimely passing of their former board president, good friend and neighbor. We shall miss him.
      