
        SHANKER-Albert, 68, President of the American Federation of Teachers, 1974-Present; President of the United Federation of Teachers, 1964-1986. Senior Vice-President, AFL-CIO Executive Council, 1973-present. Died Saturday, February 22, 1997, of complications from cancer at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, New York City. He is survived by his wife of 36 years, Edith Shanker (nee Gerber) of Mamaroneck, NY; his sister Pearl Harris of Beachwood, OH; his sons Carl Sabath of Gaithersburg, MD; Adam Shanker of Mt. Vernon, NY; Michael Shanker of Tarrytown, NY; his daughter Jennie Shanker of Philadelphia, PA; and his three grandchildren, Adrian, Jeremy, and Olivia. Private interment. Memorial services to be arranged in New York and Washington, DC. Contributions in his memory may be made to the International Rescue Committee (122 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10168) or Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (attention: Development Department, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021).
        SHANKER-Albert. NYC labor mourns the death of the longtime American Federation of Teachers President, senior AFL-CIO VP, respected labor leader, advisor to presidents, civil rights fighter, former IFFTU President, former UFT President, and former VP of our Council. For a career devoted to improving public education, teacher unionism in the USA and internationally, world democracy, working conditions and benefits for school professionals and all workers and their families, and for his uncanny talent to analyze complex problems and situations and to develop simple, clear, positive solutions, we memorialize him. To his wife Edie and their family, we extend sincere condolences. NYC Central Labor Council Brian McLaughlin, President Ted H. Jacobsen, Secretary Margaret Samuels, Treasurer
        SHANKER-Albert. The Board of Directors and worldwide staff of the International Rescue Committee mourn the loss of our longtime Board member and friend, Al Shanker. He was a steadfast champion for the cause of refugees, individual liberty and human freedom. We salute his memory and offer sincere condolences to his family and friends. Leo Cherne, Chairman Emeritus John C. Whitehead, Chairman Robert P. DeVecchi, President
      