
        LANE-Herbert G. Loving husband of Harriet. Devoted father of Kenneth and Nancy, Donna and Simon Swaap. Cherished ''Poppy'' of Ryan and Allison. Dear brother of Robert, Arthur and Richard. And dear Mitzi. Service today February 3, 11:30 AM at Temple Israel of the City of New York, 112 East 75th St, NYC. In lieu of flowers contributions to Temple Israel would be appreciated.
        LANE-Herbert G. Chairman of the Board. The Officers and Trustees of Temple Israel of the City of New York record with profound sorrow the tragic death of our beloved Chairman. Our deepest condolences to his cherished wife, Harriet, and his children Kenneth and Nancy, and Donna and Simon, and his grandchildren and all his loved ones. His memory is an abiding blessing. Oskar Brecher, President Judith S. Lewis, Rabbi Martin J. Zion, Rabbi Emeritus Jack L. Berezov, Exec. Director
        LANE-Herbert G. The Sisterhood of Temple Israel of the City of New York mourns the passing of beloved past President Herbert G. Lane. He was a warm and generous person supportive of Jewish causes and was especially concerned with the well-being of children. Sisterhood extends its condolences to Harriet, Kenneth and Donna as well as all members of the family. We will miss him. Ruth Javna and Blanche Pobiner, Sisterhood Co-Presidents
        LANE-Herbert G. The Brotherhood of Temple Israel deeply mourns the sudden loss of our past President, who served our organization with great dedication for many years. As President of our Temple, he was an inspiration to all of us. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Harriet, and children Kenneth and Nancy, Donna and Simon. Harry Hirschkorn, Brotherhood Chairman
        LANE-Herbert. The executives and employees of Pressman Toy extend their deepest sympathy and love to Harriet, Ken and Donna and their precious families on their and our great loss. James M. Pressman, President
        LANE-Herbert. We love you so much and shall miss you terribly. Love you forever. Aunt Lynn, Ann, Steve, George, Jeff, Annie, Edward, Sammy, Donna, Jim, and Kate
        LANE-Herbert G. The entire congregation of Temple Israel mourns the untimely death of our beloved past President, Chairman of the Board and friend. Our sympathies are with his family.
        LANE-Herbert G. Deepest condolences to Harriet, the children and grandchildren. We have lost a very dear friend. Audrey and Jimmy Goodman and family
        LANE-Herbert. To our dearest cousin and friend, who was one in a million. We will love you and miss you always. Ann and Steve Markelson
        LANE-Herbert. Loved by all, gone much too soon. We will remember you always. Love, Jane and Reese
        LANE-Herbert. The sweetest and gentlest of men. You will live in our hearts forever. Ann and Arnold Gatof
        LANE-Herbert. Of the four of us, you were far and away the best. I will love you and miss you always. Bob
        LANE-Herb. We will miss you, dear sweet friend. Love, D & D
      