
        COE-Jacques, stockbroker, died on February 23, 1997 at age 103. Spent 88 years on Wall Street. Beloved husband of the late Florence Curtis Coe (formerly married to Clara Bartels Coe). Loving father of Jean Fink and the late Jacques Coe, Jr. and Tech/Sgt. William Coe, and devoted stepfather of the late Joan Curtis Cowen; cherished grandfather of William, Liz, James and David Coe; Nancy Ceccorulli, Lisa Fink and Lorie Cowen Levy. Also survived by nine great-grandchildren. Memorial service on Sunday, March 2, 11:30 AM at Frank Campbell Funeral Chapel, NYC. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Chess-inthe-Schools, the American Chess Center, 353 W. 46 St., NYC 10036.
        COE-Jacques. The entire partnership of Cowen & Company mourns the passing of our longtime friend and eminent colleague, Jacques Coe, 103. Widely recognized as the oldest active broker on Wall Street, Jacques joined Cowen & Company in 1964 as a limited partner. He epitomized an exceptional standard of service and integrity in the financial services industry and will be missed by all who knew and worked with him. Jacques will be remembered for his consummate professionalism, keen market insight, vibrant personality and sense of humor. Heartfelt condolences are extended to the entire Coe family. As Jacques was a founder of the American Chess Association, and past president of the Manhattan Chess Club, contributions in lieu of flowers may be made to Chess-in-the-Schools, The American Chess Center, 353 West 46th St., NYC 10036. Memorial service will be held Sunday, March 2nd, 11:30AM, at Frank Campbell Funeral Chapel, NYC.
        COE-Jacques. Esteemed Honorary Chairman and a founder of Chest - in - the - Schools, formerly The American Chest Foundation. A Trustee for 42 years, he was devoted to chest and using it to make a better world. We will miss his sage counsel, warm friendship and delightful wit. Lewis B. Cullman, Chairman Faneuil Adams, Jr., President Allen Kaufman, Exec. Director
      