
        SHANKER-Albert. The officers and members of the United Federation of Teachers mourn the loss of the revered and beloved leader & early organizer of their union, Albert Shanker, 68, Feb. 22. An indefatigable fighter for the dignity of all of us who teach children, he inspired us to the causes of improving our schools & working for a more just & democratic world where quality education is the key to equal opportunity for all. Throughout his life, Al Shanker never hesitated to act according to his beliefs, whether or not they conformed to what was popular at the moment. He was a staunch champion of human rights in totalitarian countries, civil rights in the U.S., the rights of workers everywhere and the rights of students to safer schools and more rigorous academic standards. His contributions to education and labor are unsurpassed, and he leaves us a legacy that will surely continue to guide us in our personal & professional lives. The 125,000 members of the United Federation of Teachers join their colleagues nationwide in extending our heartfelt sympathies to the Shanker family, his wife Eadie, his children, Carl, Michael, Jennie and Adam and his three grandchildren, all of whom sacrificed precious time with him so that he could lead and inspire us with his personal humanity, ringing oratory and prescient vision. For that we are grateful. Sandra Feldman, Tom Pappas, Harriet Merchant, Randi Weingarten, Phyllis Wallach, Carmen Alvarez, Frank Carrucci, Ronald Jones, Richard Miller, David Sherman, John Soldini.
        SHANKER-Albert. The National Board for Professional Teaching Standards mourns the loss of its founding member, inspiring leader and dear friend, Albert Shanker. He was a shining example for millions of teachers, other educators and children that learning is a lifelong pursuit. A brilliant man, he was deeply committed to the creation of high standards for teaching, and he was a principled champion of increased student learning for all children. We shall miss him greatly. NBPTS Current and Former Board of Directors Staff and America's National Board Certified Teachers
      