
        GENTRY-James Baxter (''Baxter''). Born on September 9, 1906, in Lumber City, Georgia, the first child of Oscar Alachua Gentry and Mary Bird Baxter Gentry, died in Houston, Texas, on Friday, February 14, 1997. Mr. Gentry was predeceased by his wife of 69 years, Dora Ferrell Gentry on May 5, 1996. He is survived by his three sons, James Baxter Gentry, Jr., Chisholm Ferrell Gentry and Wilmer Edgar (''Bill'') Gentry; two daughters-in-law, Julia Smith Gentry (Mrs. Baxter Gentry, Jr.) and Judith Tift Gentry (Mrs. Chisholm Gentry); ten grandchildren, sixteen great-grandchildren, and many nieces, nephews and other relatives. He graduated from public school in Eastman, Georgia, and attended Emory University in Atlanta and received a law degree with honors from The Woodrow Wilson School of Law. He was engaged in the marine insurance industry for 46 years, retiring in 1971 as Vice President and Senior Partner of Johnson and Higgins Insurance Brokers of New York City. He also was the head of his firm's offices throughout South America and Europe. He was largely responsible for the introduction and implementation of multiple-peril insurance policies, and was considered the leading expert in this once revolutionary, now widespread form of risk coverage for business and industry. In his retirement he created a tropical garden on his Sugar Loaf Key estate in Florida which became internationally famous for the large variety and outstanding specimens of its palm trees and other cycads. He travelled the world with his wife, with frequent trips to Europe, Asia, South America and Africa, as well as Russia and China when both were first opened to foreign visitors from free-world countries. He was an active board member of Fairchild Gardens in Miami and a leading conservationist in the Lower Keys until he moved to Houston in March of 1995. He possessed an adventurous spirit, a keen intellect, and an unswerving dedication to the highest level of integrity in all his dealings both as a businessman and a friend to his many associates and acquaintances. A memorial service will be held in The Founders Chapel of Grace Presbyterian Church, 10221 Ella Lee, in Houston, at 2 PM, Wednesday, February 19, 1997. Graveside services will be held on Friday, February 21, 1997, at 10 AM, at Woodlawn Cemetery in Eastman, Georgia.
      