
        CASTELLANOS-Donald F., on Monday, February 10, 1997 of the Chelsea section of NYC. Devoted brother of Mary Comba, Francis W. and James J. Castellanos; Daniel L. Wollenziehn. Mr. Castellanos was appointed to the New York State Banking Department by then Governor Mario Cuomo. He served the banking department for seven years acting as: Executive Assistant to the Superintendent of Banking, Director of Community Re-Investment and Director of Community Services. Prior to his appointment to the banking department he worked with Chase Manhattan Bank, NYC for twenty-three years. He was active in, and a contributor to, numerous community causes. Mr. Castellanos was an Army veteran of the Vietnam War having received the Good Conduct Medal, the Vietnam Service Medal, the National Defense Service Medal & the Vietnam Campaign Medal. Funeral services will be held Saturday, 8:30 AM from the Vander May Wayne Colonial Funeral Home, 567 Ratzer Road, Wayne, NJ, then to Holy Cross RC Church, Wayne, NJ, where at 9:30 AM a scripture service will be held. Friends may call Friday 2-4, 7-9 PM. Interment will be in Christ the King Cemetery, Franklin Lakes. In lieu of flowers memorial donations to your favorite charity would be appreciated.
        CASTELLANOS-Donald Francis/d, resident of New York City and Fire Island Pines, died peacefully of complications of lung cancer February 10, 1997. Mr. Castellanos was a decorated Vietnam veteran. He worked for Chase Manhattan Bank for twenty years before being appointed by Gov. Cuomo to serve in various positions in the New York State Banking Dept. He, along with Peter Vogel, were cofounders of LAMBDA Independent Democrats of Brooklyn. He was also a member of the Founders Circle of the Gay and Lesbian Community Center, as well as a supporter of the Hetrick Martin Institute and the Anti-Violence Project. Mr. Castellanos had been a member of Congregations Beit Simcha Torah of New York City and B'nai Olam of Fire Island Pines. He is survived by his brothers, Francis of Miami, Fla., James of Wayne, NJ; sister, Mae Comba of Delmar, Del.; sister-in-law, Lucy of Floral Park, NY, many nieces, nephews, grandnieces and nephews throughout the US and UK. He is mourned by his companion and friend, Dan L. Wollenziehn. We who survive him will miss his love, generosity and support, but most of all his humor and intense love of life. Contributions to any of the above-mentioned organizations would be a fitting memorial to his life.
        CASTELLANOS-Don F./d The Board, Staff and volunteers of the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center mourn the passing of our good friend and colleague, Don Castellanos. His work as member of the Founders Society played an important role in assuring the Center's presence for future generations of lesbian and gay people. Our love and thoughts are with Dan L. Wollenziehn, his lover of nine years. Judith E. Turkel, President Richard D. Burns Executive Director The Lesbian & Gay Community Services Center
      