
        BURROWS-Selig S. Age 83. Cherished husband of the late Gladys. Died 2/16 peacefully in his sleep after a long and valiant struggle with lung disease. Adored father of Kenneth, Jonathan, & Patricia Burrows, loving father-in-law of Milt Wolfson & Erica Jong. Grandfather extraordinaire to Jessica, Jordan, Jody, Tracy and Molly. Brother of the late Abe Burrows and the late Shirley Alter. Brotherin-law of Doris and Mel Sirow, Bobbie and Gene Wells, Taube & Manny Meltzer and Paul Alter. His spirit and courage, his wit, warmth and boundless generosity will be felt for generations. Services at 11:15 A.M., Wednesday, February 19, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        BURROWS-Selig. Intellectual, sophisticated, charming, warm, loving, caring, sharing, humorous and witty, acute, astute, a connoisseur of the arts, a connoisseur of life with the ability to extract the best and the most from it, a towering inner strength, and a friend above all friends, in good times and bad, throughout each of the sixty years of our remarkable friendship. Arnold joins me in expressing our heartfelt sympathies and deepest condolences to his wonderful children, Kenneth, Patricia and Jonathan, and to all of the members of his beautiful family, with the thought that Gladys and Selig, parted from each other so abruptly, will, once again, be watching over all of you together. Muriel Abramson Shapiro
        BURROWS-Selig S. The Board of Directors of the Armory Art Center in West Palm Beach, FL, mourn the passing of its fellow board member, Selig Burrows. His lively humor, his intimate knowledge of art and his generosity will be much missed. Condolences to his family and many friends. David Edgar, Exec. Director Bill Finley, Chair Mary Montgomery, Muriel Kaplan, Board Members
        BURROWS-Selig S. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Selig S. Burrows. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        BURROWS-Selig S. The Board of Governors and the Members of the Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their esteemed member and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his family. Board of Governors Buddy Martin President
        BURROWS-Selig. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        BURROWS-Selig S. The members of the City Athletic Club mourn the loss of its esteemed member, Selig Burrows and wish to express heartfelt sympathy to his family. The Board of Governors
        BURROWS-Selig S. A remarkable man who touched many lives. We share the loss with his family. Doris and Charles Margett
        BURROWS-Selig. Fifty years of friendship were not enough, but you'll always be in our hearts. Sol and Muriel
      