
        STRAUS-Robert K. formerly of New York City, died on February 24, 1997 at St Francis Hospital in Santa Barbara, CA. Straus is survived by his wife, Barbara, his daughter, Penelope More of Olema, CA and his son, Christopher Jesse of Santa Barbara. A stepson, Simon Flower, lives in Kingston, England. Penelope More is the mother of his two grandchildren, Braden More of New York City and Alexandra More of Olema, CA. Straus is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Jesse Isidor Straus. He graduated from Harvard College in 1927 and spent two years studying abroad at Trinity College, Cambridge; the Ecole des Sciences Politiques in Paris, and the Geneva School of International Relations in Switzerland. On returning to the United States, he entered and graduated from the Harvard Business School in 1931. He first worked for the Temporary Emergency Relief Administration of New York State and in Washington, DC for two New Deal agencies, the National Recovery Administration and the Resettlement Administration. Returning to New York in 1936, he was elected to the New York City Council in 1937 and served two terms. In 1942 he enlisted in the United States Army. After a year in the Pentagon, he went to London as a Military Government officer, assigned to the Civil Affairs staff at Supreme Headquarters. In 1958, he and his family moved from New York to Los Angeles, where he had purchased a bi-weekly newspaper in the San Fernando Valley. In this enterprise he, with partners, developed one of the first cold type and web offset printing businesses in California, Sun Litho, which they sold in 1980; after which Straus retired in Santa Barbara. In Santa Barbara, Straus served as a trustee of the Santa Barbara Museum of Art for a number of years. In the 1980s he and his wife established the Barbara and Robert K. Straus Thinking and Learning Center at Pace University in New York to encourage interdisciplinary education based on the work of Alfred Korzybski, the founder of the Institute of General Semantics. Straus had been interested in this approach to education and the study of decision-making for many years. He and his brother, Jack Straus, established a fund at the Harvard Business School in 1973 in memory of their father, for the same purpose. The funeral will be private. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to the American Diabetes Association.
      