
        INNISS-Charles E. The Board of Trustees and staff of the City University Construction Fund mourn the death of our beloved chairman, Charles E. Inniss. He was a man of great intelligence, compassion and dignity, whose visionary leadership guided the design and construction of several major educational facilities which offered greater opportunities for The City University's students, and enhanced the New York City community. We will miss him and thank him for his many years of dedicated service to the City University. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Marjorie, and the Inniss family. Harvey Auerbach, Vice Chair Emma E. Macari, AIA, Exec Dir.
        INNISS-Charles E. The Board and staff of the Bedford Stuyvesant Family Health Center, Inc. mourn the passing of our dear friend and founder. Despite his own personal struggle, he continued to emote compassion and caring for those who had the good fortune of being in his presence. His generous spirit seems to have catapulted him beyond his pain. His words were always uplifting. He personified love, understanding and goodness. His great intellect never got in the way of his compassion. Although he has returned to the source, the Creator, his light will brighten our path always. The Bedford Stuyvesant Family
        INNISS-Charles. The Board and staff of The Studio Museum in Harlem mourn the loss of our inmediate past-Chairman, Mr. Charles E. Inniss. Charlie was chairman from 1992 through 1996 and was also the Museum's first Executive Director in 1968. His years of distinction and dedicated service were critical to the Museum's development. We will miss his vision, compassion and humor. Our sympathies go out to his wife, Marjorie, his brother, Wilbur and his entire family. Chairman of the Board, Mr. George L. Knox Kinshasha Holman Conwill, Director
        INNISS-Charles E. The Board and staff of the Citizens Committee for New York City mourn the loss of one who devoted his life to improving his city. It will be with heavy hearts that we bestow upon him, posthumously, the Elizabeth Chapin Award for Volunteers in the Arts on February 18th at our New Yorker for New York dinner. We extend our condolences to his family. Citizens Committee For New York City Osborn Elliott, Chairman Michael E. Clark, President
        INNISS-Charles E. Dear Charlie, you, our late friend Bruce Wittmer and I were called the Brooklyn Rat Pack. With the support of our companies, BUG, Con Ed, A&S and friends, we changed the social, economic and cultural climate in Brooklyn and other places. I miss you guys, but I know you and Bruce are again shaking things up. Take care, Francesco
      