
        FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library mourn the loss of Lawrence Fleischman, devoted husband of Trustee Barbara Fleischman, and esteemed friend of the Library. His deep personal affection for and commitment to The New York Public Library and to our Library for the Performimg Arts and its staff will be forever remembered. A passionate collector and scholar of art and antiquities, Mr. Fleischman's interest and generous philanthropy have had a profound and lasting impact on cultural institutions in New York, in the nation, and abroad. We will always be grateful for his wisdom and dedication to our Library. Our deepest sympathies to his wife, Barbara, and to his children, Rebecca, Arthur, and Martha. Elizabeth Rohatyn, Chairman Paul LeClerc, President Brooke Russell Astor, Honorary Chairman Marshall Rose and Andrew Heiskell, Chairmen Emeriti
        FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their esteemed colleague and friend. More than a great dealer in American Art, he was a leader in his profession, serving as a director of ADAA. His interests, activities and contributions ranged across the entire spectrum of the arts and humanities, as a connoisseur, collector, lecturer, advisor, founder, board member and patron of many arts institutions. A dynamic, forthright, generous, warm and caring human being, he gave us wise counsel and set a standard of excellence which brought honor to him, his family and his profession. Our deepest sympathy and condolences to his wife Barbara, to their children Rebecca, Arthur and Martha, and to their grandchildren. James N. Goodman, Pres. Gilbert S. Edelson, Admin. V.P.
        FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. The Friends and Patrons of the Arts of the Vatican Museums record with deep regret the death of its founding member, the architect of its major successes in acquisition and conservation, and a dear personal friend. His work and generosity also led to the construction of the Cardinal Cooke Conservation Laboratory at the Vatican Museums. He was created a Knight of St. Sylvestre of the Holy See for his leadership and care of the fine arts at the Museums. Lucy F. McGrath, Chairman Monsignor Eugene V. Clark
        FLEISCHMAN-Lawrence A. The Board of Trustees of the Archives of American Art are saddened to learn of the death of our founder Lawrence A. Fleischman, on Friday, January 31, 1997. His leadership, commitment and continued devotion to the Archives' mission will be sorely missed. We are especially grieved to have lost a good friend and wish his family comfort and spiritual resolution during this difficult period. Nancy Wellin, Chairman Frank Martucci, President
        FLEISCHMAN - Lawrence. The Trustees, Director and staff of the British Museum, London, express sincere condolences to Mrs. Barbara Fleischman and her family on the death of Mr. Lawrence Fleischman, Chairman of the American Friends of the British Museum. We have lost a generous friend and lover of the classical world, who worked tirelessly to further cultural exchanges between the British Museum and the United States. Non omnis moriar.
        FLEISCHMAN - Lawrence A., Chairman of Kennedy Galleries Inc. New York, died on January 31 in London. He is survived by his wife, Barbara; his three children Rebecca, Arthur, Martha, and grandchild Jennifer. Funeral services will be private. A memorial service will be held at a future date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to American Friends of the British Museum, 575 Lexington Av., Suite 410, NY 10022.
      