
        KLEINSCHMIDT-Hans, 83, psychiatrist and art collector. Dr. Hans Joachim Kleinschmidt, who practiced and taught psychiatry in New York for five decades, died on February 21 in his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 83. Born in Prostkin, East Prussia in 1913, Dr. Kleinschmidt grew up in Berlin and began medical school at the University of Freiburg. In 1933, he fled the Nazi regime and escaped to Italy, where he completed medical school at the University of Padua. In 1939, he fled to Jerusalem, where he began a training in neurosurgery. He emigrated to the United States in 1946 and completed a residency in psychiatry at Hillside Hospital in Queens. He joined the staff of Mount Sinai Hospital in 1952, where he became Associate Clinical Professor of Psychiatry. He married Ruth Benjamin, a designer, in 1948 and was widowed in 1990. Dr. Kleinschmidt retired last year from an active clinical practice and throughout his career, wrote on the interrelations between creativity and psychoanalysis. Dr. Kleinschmidt also donated his services to survivors of the Holocaust in their efforts to receive remuneration from the German government in the years after World War II. His life was enriched by his abiding interest in art and literature. An expert in abstract expressionism, he edited Richard Heulsenbeck's memoirs on the origins of the Dada movement, published in 1959. A part of Dr. Kleinschmidt's private collection was exhibited by the University of Iowa's Fine Arts Dada Archives and Research Center in 1988. Dr. Kleinschmidt is survived by his four children, Peter, Trude, Catherine and Nina, and four grandchildren. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel on Sunday, February 23rd at 11 AM. Donations may be sent to the United Jewish Appeal.
        KLEINSCHMIDT-Hans J., on February 21, 1997. Beloved husband of the late Ruth. Loving father of Peter, Trude, Catherine, and Nina. Grandfather of Justin, Samuel, Benjamin, and Sarah. Survivor of the Nazi Holocaust. Service Sunday 11 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.
      