
        KLEINFELD-Morris, M.D. Wellknown gerontologist and Founding Director of the Department of Long-Term Care Medicine at Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center from 1975 until 1994, member of the Emeritus Staff until his death. Served on numerous hospital and medical staff committees at KJMC. Graduated from Baylor University in 1935, received M.D. Degree from Baylor University School of Medicine in 1938. Completed residency in medicine at Downstate Medical Center and Maimonides Medical Center. Served in the Armed Forces in 1941 to 1945, earned rank of Major. Diplomate of American Board of Internal Medicine, American Board of Preventive Medicine, Occupational Medicine. Teaching appointments included Professorships at New York University Medical Center and SUNY Health Sciences Center at Brooklyn. For almost 20 years, Director of the Division of Industrial Hygiene, also known as Occupational Medicine, for the New York State Department of Labor. Memberships in professional societies included the American College of Physicians, the American College of Preventive Medicine, the New York Academy of Science, and the American Academy of Occupational Medicine, in addition to many others concerned with safety, occupational medicine and internal medicine. Past Chairman of the Continuing Medical Education Committee of the Academy of Medicine of Brooklyn Inc. Conducted numerous seminars and symposiums relating to geriatric medicine. Author of over 100 scientific publications, lectured widely in medicine, pharmacology, and toxicology. Hospital appointments included Bellevue Hospital, Maimonides Medical Center, Kings County Hospital, University Hospital of Brooklyn, and St. Clare's Hospital. Survived by his wife, Miriam, and 4 children. On behalf of the Members of Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center, we would like to express our condolences to the family. The medical world has lost a brilliant and devoted physician and educator. Rajat Mukherji, M.D. President, Medical Staff Michael B. Krasner, President, Board of Trustees David Minkin, President Emeritus Milton M. Gutman, Chief Executive Officer Mohammad Zahir Executive Medical Advisor Linda Brady, M.D. Medical Director
      