
        HADDAD-Bruce Ernest, 43, senior vice president-international operations for the GTE Corp and his wife, Dorothy Summers Haddad, in an airplane crash February 19 near Guatemala City airport in Guatemala. The couple, who were traveling on business, perished when the chartered jet, carrying a crew of three, crashed during its approach to the airport. The members of the crew also died. Bruce E. Haddad was a 20-year veteran of GTE, the telecommunications company, and was named senior vice president-international operations in January 1997. Prior to that appointment, he served in several key international and corporate positions, including pesident of CANTV, the Venezuelan telephone company. He was born in Princeton, NJ on October 20, 1953. His family later moved to Ormond Beach, Florida where he met his future wife at Seabreeze High School in Daytona Beach. The couple was married in 1975, the same year both graduated from Florida State University. Dorothy Summers Haddad was born in Pensacola, Florida; the family later moved to Daytona Beach. ''Bruce was not only one of the best businessmen I've ever had the pleasure to work with, but he and Dorothy also were great friends and important members of the GTE family,'' said GTE Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Charles R. Lee. ''Bruce brought extraordinary energy, intellect and creativity to all the posts he held.'' Bruce E. Haddad is survived by his parents, the Rev. Ernest and Miriam Haddad, Ormond Beach, FL; two brothers, Kenneth Haddad, St. Petersburg, FL and David Haddad, Winter Park, FL; a sister, Judith Sharpe, Ormond Beach; two nephews and three nieces. Dorothy Summers Haddad is survived by her mother, Elaine Rogers, New Smyrna Beach, FL; her father, Robert Summers, DELand, FL; a sister, Susan Summers Persis, Ormond Beach; a nephew, Alexander Clark Cone II, West Palm Beach, FL; a half-sister, Kim Summers, Sarasota, FL and a half-brother, Dray Summers, DE Land. A memorial service is scheduled for today, 4 pm, at the Ormond Beach Presbyterian Church. In lieu of other remembrances, donations may be made to the Bruce Ernest and Dorothy Summers Haddad Scholarship Fund, Seabreeze High School, 2700 North Oleander Avenue, Daytona Beach, FL 32118.
      