
        INNISS-Charles E. The members of the Board of Trustees of the Catholic Interracial Council are deeply saddened by the death of Charles E. Inniss, our devoted and spirited leader for more than 15 years, serving both as President and a member of the Board. His sophisticated understanding, quiet manner, humanitarian concern and generosity profoundly influenced the scope of the Council. He was an inspiration to all of us as he worked tirelessly to promote justice, social equality and racial harmony. His warmth and kindness will be remembered always. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved Marjorie and family. Gerald W. Lynch, President The Catholic Interracial Council
        INNISS-Charles. The Trustees, Staff and all the Children of the Brooklyn Children's Museum mourn the great loss of our cherished Trustee and Past President, Charles Inniss. He gave each of us his heart, his wisdom, his inspiration, his leadership-and most of all his vision for a world of caring, of sharing, of learning and of living in peace and always together. Our heartfelt love and sympathy to his devoted wife Marge and his family. The Brooklyn Children's Museum
        INNISS-Charles. On January 30 the Arthur Ashe Institute for Urban Health lost a champion and our community lost a great humanitarian with the death of Charles Inniss, a member of the Institute's Board of Directors. His remarkable life and extraordinary legacy of caring will be remembered by all whose lives he touched. Board of Directors and staff Arthur Ashe Institute for Urban Health
        INNISS-Charles E. The SUNY Health Science Center at Brooklyn mourns the passing of Charles Inniss, a Director of the SUNY HSCB Foundation, and a devoted advocate for our campus, borough and city. We extend our deepest sympathy to his relatives and friends. Eugene B. Feigelson, M.D., Interim President
        INNISS-Charles E. Loving cousin. Your life of inner strength, quiet dignity, and devotion to public service will serve to inspire many. Deepest sympathies to Marjorie. Requiesat in pace. Lorraine E. Rolston
      