
        BURROWS-Selig S. Age 83. Cherished husband of the late Gladys. Died 2/16 peacefully in his sleep after a long and valiant struggle with lung disease. Adored father of Kenneth, Jonathan, & Patricia Burrows, loving father-in-law of Milt Wolfson & Erica Jong. Grandfather extraordinaire to Jessica, Jordan, Jody, Tracy and Molly. Brother of the late Abe Burrows and the late Shirley Alter. Brotherin-law of Doris and Mel Sirow, Bobbie and Gene Wells, Taube & Manny Meltzer and Paul Alter. His spirit and courage, his wit, warmth and boundless generosity will be felt for generations. Services at 11:15 A.M., Wednesday, February 19, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        BURROWS-Selig. It is with deep regret and profound sorrow that the Officers, Board and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City mark the passing of Selig Burrows. Selig and his late wife Gladys were generous supporters of the needs of people with cerebral palsy, appearing regularly on our telethon to present one of many annual gifts. We extend our condolences to their children Kenneth, Jonathan and Patricia, daughter-in-law Erica Jong, sonin-law Milton Wolfson and to the entire Burrows family. Leo Hausman, President Jack Hausman, Founder UCP of NYC, Inc.
        BURROWS-Selig. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum note with sorrow the death of Selig Burrows, esteemed member of the Museum Council and Fine Arts Acquistions Committee, who was dedicated to the advancement of the Museum throughout the community. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his children, Kenneth, Jonathan and Patricia Burrows and their families. E. Robert Goodkind, Chairman Robert J. Hurst, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
        BURROWS-Selig. The Trustees and staff of Long Island Jewish Medical Center mourn the loss of their beloved colleague, Selig Burrows. A long-time member of the Board of Trustees, he will be missed for his warmth, intelligence and good humor. Our deepest condolences to all the members of his family. Gedale B. Horowitz, Chairman David R. Dantzker, M.D., President and CEO
        BURROWS-Selig. He was a good friend to me for more than 50 years. Selig was the best, a caring man, generous to United Cerebral Palsy and North Shore University Hospital. He is already missed. My sincere sympathy to Kenneth, Jonathan, Patty, Erica and Milton. Jack Hausman
        BURROWS-Selig S. Renaissance man. A connoisseur of art. He loved his fellow man. He touched so many lives and will always be remembered. Dorothy and Jerry Blonder
      