
        FREEDMAN-Irving S. I have lost my delicious husband who was also a loving uncle and great-uncle and was loved by his many nieces and nephews. He was a Trustee and friendly council to the Park East Synagogue as well as Sam & Esther Minskoff Cultural Center. He was a Real Estate Division Chairman/UJA Federation, a Founder of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, & a supporter of Brooklyn Law School & Visions Inc. Service Wednesday 10:15 A.M. at Park East Synagogue on 68th Street, between Lexington & 3rd. For further information call Plaza Memorial Chapel 769-4400.
        FREEDMAN-Irving. The Board of Overseers of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University notes, with profound regret, the passing of Irving Freedman, a dear friend, respected member of our Society of Founders and esteemed community leader. To his wife, Harriette, his nieces and nephews, and to his entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Dr. Norman Lamm President Yeshiva University Burton P. Resnick Chairperson, Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        FREEDMAN-Irving S. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Irving S. Freedman, a devoted friend and supporter of UJA-Federation, who served as Real Estate Division Chair. To his wife Harriet and to the entire family, we extend our deepest sympathies. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, March 12, at 10:15 AM, at Park East Synagogue. Larry A. Silverstein, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        FREEDMAN-Irving S. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our dedicated Trustee, Irving S. Freedman, who served for many years as our Synagogue Counsel and, with his wife Harriette, was a Founder of the Minskoff Cultural Center and dedicated a classroom in the Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School. To his devoted Harriette and the entire family, our sincere condolences. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        FREEDMAN-Irving S. Brooklyn Law School is saddened to note the death of our loyal alumnus. A graduate of the Class of 1931, Mr. Freedman practiced law for more than a half century while serving many civic organizations and supporting several charitable organizations. Our sincere sympathies to his family. Paul Windels, Jr., Chair, Board of Trustees Joan G. Wexler, Dean
        FREEDMAN-Irving S. Sisterhood of Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our the beloved husband of our Board member Harriette. Heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. Beverly Greenberg, President Polly Etkind Hochberg, Chairman
        FREEDMAN-Irving S. Our adored Uncle Ike. You touched our lives with your wisdom and intellect and above all our hearts. Your sensitivity, humor and guidance will remain as a perpetual source of inspiration to us all always. Your loving Nieces and Nephews.
      