
        DYSON-Charles H. Financier and philanthropist, died March 14, 1997, at the age of 87. Mr. Dyson lived in Millbrook, NY, and Barbados. At the time of his death, Charles H. Dyson was chairman emeritus of The Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corporation, a private company that he founded in 1954, which became one of the largest privately held companies in the country. Charles Dyson was born in NYC and grew up in Englewood, NJ. As a young man, Charles Dyson worked as an accountant, and attended Pace University (then Pace Institute) at night, graduating in 1930. During the war years, he was a Special Consultant to the Secretary of War and worked with the Army and Navy on helping to design the Lend Lease Act. He later worked for the Department of the Treasury and after helping to organize the International Monetary Fund, he represented Treasury Department at the First IMF conference at Bretton Woods. Commissioned as a colonel in the Air Force, he was decorated with a Distinguished Service Medal and was made a Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE) for his wartime service. After the war, Mr. Dyson worked for several national corporations before beginning his own company in 1954. That year he bought his first company with $10,000 of his own money and $5 million borrowed from a bank. Mr. Dyson became known as a pioneer in the field of leveraged buyouts. The Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corporation's manufacturing and industrial businesses currently generate annual sales of close to $600 million. In addition to Charles Dyson's many accomplishments in the business world, he was a noted philanthropist and community leader. He served as chairman of several boards of directors, including Pace Univeristy and the American Ballet Theater. The liberal arts school at Pace University is known as the Dyson College of Arts and Sciences, in recognition of Mr. Dyson's leadership and contributions to that institution. He lent his support and leadership to a long list of voluntary organizations and served as a trustee for many including Rockefeller University Council, Hospital for Special Surgery, White Plains Hospital, Common Cause, Center for Defense Information, Westchester County Medical Center, Greer Children's Services, New York Law School, and the Metropolitan Opera Association. Charles Dyson's commitment to philanthropy and the importance of the voluntary sector was lifelong. In addition to his personal philanthropy and that of his whole family, he and his late wife Margaret founded The Dyson Foundation in 1957. He later created The Dyson Charitable Fund as another adjunct to his family's charitable work. In recent years, major gifts were made by Mr. Dyson, and by the Dyson Foundation to many important institutions, including Pace University, Cornell University, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical College, Marist College, the American Ballet Theater, and the Metropolitan Opera. Charles H. Dyson was the widower of Margaret Macgregor Dyson to whom he was married in 1941. Margaret Dyson passed away in 1990. Survivors include his second wife, June Marston Dyson; his three sons and one daughter; John S. Dyson, Robert R. Dyson, Anne E. Dyson, M.D., and Peter L. Dyson; 10 grandchildren; and a sister, Laura Bucciarelli. Private services and burial will be held in Millbrook, NY. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to Pace University in New York City or to Grace Episcopal Church in Millbrook, NY. A memorial service has been scheduled for April 1, 1997, at 11 AM, at St. James Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Avenue, NY NY.
        DYSON-Charles H. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend, Charles H. Dyson, an esteemed member of The Rockefeller University Council for over twenty years. His generosity touched a broad spectrum of University initiatives, from research on neonatal jaundice, to the creation of a childcare facility for the Rockefeller community, to-most recently-the establishment of a training program for graduate students at the interface of biology, chemistry and physics. He was also a strong advocate for and supporter of the University's Field Research Center in Millbrook, New York. A knowledgeable and generous benefactor in the area of biomedical research and education, he will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, June, and to his children, John, Robert, Anne, Peter. Torsten N. Wiesel, President Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman Board of Trustees, and David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee, Board of Trustees
        DYSON-Charles H. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Hospital for Special Surgery are greatly saddened by the loss of Charles H. Dyson, our life trustee and generous friend. His vision and commitment were extraordinary and will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the Dyson Family. Richard Menschel, Chairman Winfield Jones, Co-Chairman John Ahearn, President
      