
        FINK-Stanley. In Memory of the Hon. Stanley Fink, Esq. The faculty, staff, administration and students of Kingsborough Community College join all residents of the City and State of New York in mourning the untimely passing of the Honorable Stanley Fink, Esq., former State Assembly Speaker and City University of New York Trustee. Speaker Fink retired as New York State Assembly Speaker in 1986 after a distinguished record of service to the people of the Borough of Brooklyn, the City of New York and the State of New York. Stanley Fink, a longtime resident of Brooklyn, earned his baccalaureate degree from Brooklyn College in 1956 and his law degree from New York University Law School in 1959. After serving in the Judge Advocate General's Office of the United States Air Force, he returned to Brooklyn to practice law & began what would become a distinguished career in civic and public affairs. In 1968, he ran for the State Assembly & was elected to represent the Canarsie Assembly District. He became Assembly majority leader in 1977 and, in 1979, he was elected Speaker of the Assembly, a position in which he served with distinction until his retirement in 1986. In 1989 he was appointed to the Board of Trustees of The City University of New York by Governor Cuomo. As a trustee he continued his commitment to the students of the City of New York. He championed the cause of access to higher education for all New Yorkers and was a strong advocate of Kingsborough Community College's emergence as an educational force in the Brooklyn community. Speaker Fink's contributions to the College were recognized when he was awarded the Kingsborough President's Medal for his devotion to the cause of higher education, in general, and open admissions specifically. Known as a forceful leader capable of fostering bi-partisanship in the legislature, Stanley Fink leaves a record of legislative innovation in the areas of criminal justice reform, highway safety, school aid & primary, secondary, and higher education. Both as Speaker of the New York State Assembly and as a Trustee of the City University of New York, he was a strong voice for the educationally and economically disadvantaged, women returning to the workforce, and education for new immigrants. He took particular pride in the development of new programs at Kingsborough Community College to serve these populations. His commitment to access through open-enrollment became the public policy of New York State and, for this, he will be long remembered and held in the highest regard. Stanley Fink's contributions in government, in the business sector and in higher education are many. He will always be remembered, however, for his extraordinary intelligence, his great sense of humor and his innate ability to cut through rhetoric and get to the heart of the matter. His energy and magnetic personality merged to form a commanding presence wherever people gathered. Stanley Fink was a loving husband to his wife, Judith, a devoted father to his son, Marc and daughter-in-law, Laura Kirschstein, his son, Keith and daughter-in-law, Caryn, and an adoring grandfather to his granddaughter, Alexandra. His legacy of excellence as a public servant, his passion for justice, his devotion to his family and the joy he derived from their love, serve to help us remember Stanley Fink as a man who made a difference. Leon M. Goldstein, President Kingsborough Community College
        FINK-Stanley. With profound sorrow and an indelible sense of loss, the John Jay College community mourns the death of Stanley Fink. His brilliant leadership in the New York State Assembly as Speaker, his tireless commitment to social justice, and his passion for public service will be deeply missed by all those who knew & worked with him. As a member of the Board of Trustees of The City University of New York, he was dedicated to increasing opportunity for a quality education to all New Yorkers and made a lasting contribution to public higher education. On behalf of the faculty, staff, students and alumni of John Jay College, we extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Judy and his family. Gerald W. Lynch, President John Jay College of Criminal Justice The City University of New York
        FINK-Stanley. The Board of Trustees, the Central Administration, the College Presidents, the faculty, students and staff of The City University of New York deeply mourn the passing of beloved friend, colleague, Brooklyn College Alumnus and former Trustee, Stanley Fink. As Speaker of the New York State Assembly he consistently championed the educational mission of CUNY and lead efforts to secure passage of the 1979 CUNY Governance and Financing Legislation. His outstanding service to the University as a member of the Board of Trustee for seven years will have an everlasting impact. His loss truly diminishes all of us. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Judith, and sons, Marc and Keith, and their families. Anne A. Paolucci, Chairwoman Board of Trustees W. Ann Reynolds, Chancellor
        FINK-Stanley. Our beloved friend, Board member for many years and an outstanding human being, passed away on Tuesday evening, March 4, Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. Stanley Fink will be truly missed by all. We extend our heartfelt and deepest sympathy to his wife Judy and his two sons Marc and Keith. Service will be held Thursday, March 6, at 12:30 P.M., Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street (at Amsterdam Ave), New York City. Atwood Richards Advisory Board Gregg Young, Jerry Jasinowski Archie Albright, Wayne Nelson Tom Constance, Alan Schwartz Lee Iocaca, Jeffrey Silverman Moses Deitcher, William Whitman Moreton Binn
        FINK-Stanley. The law firm of Ledy-Gurren and Blumenstock profoundly mourns the loss of Stanley Fink, a man of tremendous warmth, intellect and insight. He was our dear friend, mentor and confidante. This was a man of character and strength who had a boundless ability to know, and nurture, his fellow man. We shall always feel an emptiness from his absence, but will find comfort in the very privilege of knowing him. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved family, wife Judith, children Marc and Laura, Keith and Caryn, and granddaughter Alexandra.
        FINK-Stanley. The Officers, Board of Trustees and congregants of the Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourn the passing of our esteemed member, Stanley Fink. We extend our deepest condolences to Judy and his entire family. Rabbi Seth H. Frisch Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Betty L. Marmon, President
        FINK-Stanley. You were the brightest star in New York's political sky. You were tough, brilliant and always fair. Over the few short years of your life you won the respect and affection of all who knew you. We will truly miss you. Our condolences to Judy and the entire family. Suzan and Jerry Kremer
        FINK-Stanley. The Board of Directors and Members of The Association For A Better New York (ABNY), extend our deepest sympathies to the family of Stanley Fink, a loyal member of the ABNY Steering Committee. Lewis Rudin, Chairman. Association For ABNY
      