
        WALL-Edwin Craig, Jr., age 59, died on Wednesday, March 5, 1997 in Charlotte, NC. Mr. Wall was born in Conway, the son of May Howard Wall and the late Edwin Craig Wall, Sr. He was a resident of Conway and a lifelong member of Kingston Presbyterian Church where he served as a trustee. Mr. Wall graduated from Davidson College with a BA in Economics, & received his Master's of Business Administration from the Harvard Business School. He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Canal Industries, Inc., and also served as Board Chairman of New South, Inc., and a director of the Pelican Companies, Inc. Mr. Wall served as a member of the Board of Directors of a number of local, affiliated, and national companies. Among the local and affiliated companies are Dargan Construction Company, Chicora Development Corporation, Waccamaw Clay Products Company, Inc., Litchfield Enterprises, and Power Sources, Inc. Among the national companies are NationsBank Corporation, Blue Cross/Blue Shield of South Carolina, Sonoco Products Company, Ruddick Corporation, SCANA Corporation, and RTO, Inc. He also served on the Board of Advisors of Carousel Capital, Inc. Mr. Wall was extensively involved in numerous civic and charitable organizations. These activities included service as a trustee of The Duke Endowment, chairmanship of the Davidson College Board of Trustees, serving in several roles for Coastal Carolina University, including membership on the Board of Trustees, and chairmanship of the Board of Trustees of Brookgreen Gardens. He was a member of Clemson's President's Advisory Council, the Palmetto Business Forum, a director of the Palmetto Seed Capital Fund, and a trustee of the Conway Hospital Foundation. Mr. Wall was active in a number of roles for the Horry County United Way. He was instrumental in founding this charity which is so important to our community and served as its President and as a member of its Advisory Council. Among other civic and charitable organizations that Mr. Wall has served are the Horry County Mental Health Association, the Governor's Economic Task Force, the State Chamber of Commerce, the Belle W. Baruch Foundation, Coker College, Converse College, South Carolina Mental Health Association, Presbyterian College, the South Carolina Foundation of Independent Colleges, and USC Development Foundation. His service to the Pee Dee Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America led to his being recognized with a Silver Beaver Award. Among other awards received by Mr. Wall are a Distinguished Service Award for the Conway American Legion Post III, recognition as the South Carolina Chamber of Commerce Businessman of the Year and as an Outstanding Alumnus of the Conway High School Hall of Fame. Mr. Wall was honored as the recipient of an Endowed Professorship Chair in the Humanities at Davidson College and received honorary degrees from both Coastal Carolina University and Coker College. Surviving in addition to his mother of Conway are: his wife, Judith Atkins Wall of Conway, two sons, Edwin Craig Wall III of Charlotte, NC and Benjamin Rutledge Wall II of Davidson, NC; one daughter, Judith Atkins Wall of New York, NY; 3 sisters, May Ervin Wall of Hartsville, Harriet Wall Martin of Chapel Hill, NC and Nell Wall Otto of Greenwich, CT. Services will be held Friday, March 7th at 2:00 P.M. at Kingston Presbyterian Church in Conway. Interment to follow at Lakeside Cemetery. Memorials may be made to the E. Craig Wall, Jr. Fund, C/O Robinson, Bradshaw & Hinson, 1900 Independence Center, 101 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28246.
      