
        DYSON-Charles H. Financier and philanthropist, died March 14, 1997, at the age of 87. Mr. Dyson lived in Millbrook, NY, and Barbados. At the time of his death, Charles H. Dyson was chairman emeritus of The Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corporation, a private company that he founded in 1954, which became one of the largest privately held companies in the country. Charles Dyson was born in NYC and grew up in Englewood, NJ. As a young man, Charles Dyson worked as an accountant, and attended Pace University (then Pace Institute) at night, graduating in 1930. During the war years, he was a Special Consultant to the Secretary of War and worked with the Army and Navy on helping to design the Lend Lease Act. He later worked for the Department of the Treasury and after helping to organize the International Monetary Fund, he represented Treasury Department at the First IMF conference at Bretton Woods. Commissioned as a colonel in the Air Force, he was decorated with a Distinguished Service Medal and was made a Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE) for his wartime service. After the war, Mr. Dyson worked for several national corporations before beginning his own company in 1954. That year he bought his first company with $10,000 of his own money and $5 million borrowed from a bank. Mr. Dyson became known as a pioneer in the field of leveraged buyouts. The Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corporation's manufacturing and industrial businesses currently generate annual sales of close to $600 million. In addition to Charles Dyson's many accomplishments in the business world, he was a noted philanthropist and community leader. He served as chairman of several boards of directors, including Pace Univeristy and the American Ballet Theater. The liberal arts school at Pace University is known as the Dyson College of Arts and Sciences, in recognition of Mr. Dyson's leadership and contributions to that institution. He lent his support and leadership to a long list of voluntary organizations and served as a trustee for many including Rockefeller University Council, Hospital for Special Surgery, White Plains Hospital, Common Cause, Center for Defense Information, Westchester County Medical Center, Greer Children's Services, New York Law School, and the Metropolitan Opera Association. Charles Dyson's commitment to philanthropy and the importance of the voluntary sector was lifelong. In addition to his personal philanthropy and that of his whole family, he and his late wife Margaret founded The Dyson Foundation in 1957. He later created The Dyson Charitable Fund as another adjunct to his family's charitable work. In recent years, major gifts were made by Mr. Dyson, and by the Dyson Foundation to many important institutions, including Pace University, Cornell University, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical College, Marist College, the American Ballet Theater, and the Metropolitan Opera. Charles H. Dyson was the widower of Margaret Macgregor Dyson to whom he was married in 1941. Margaret Dyson passed away in 1990. Survivors include his second wife, June Marston Dyson; his three sons and one daughter; John S. Dyson, Robert R. Dyson, Anne E. Dyson, M.D., and Peter L. Dyson; 10 grandchildren; and a sister, Laura Bucciarelli. Private services and burial will be held in Millbrook, NY. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to Pace University in New York City or to Grace Episcopal Church in Millbrook, NY. A memorial service has been scheduled for April 1, 1997, at 11 AM, at St. James Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Avenue, NY NY.
        DYSON-Charles H. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Charles H. Dyson. A man of uncommon vision and generosity, Mr. Dyson's deep interest in and commitment to the entire Medical Center have led to significant advances in patient care, research, and medical education. We join with all those who knew him in mourning his loss. Our sincere condolences are extended to Dr. Anne E. Dyson, member of the CUMC Board of Overseers, and the Dyson family. John F. McGillicuddy Chairman, Board of Governors The New York Hospital David B. Skinner, M.D. President Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Cornell University Medical College Antonio M. Gotto, Jr., M.D. Dean
        DYSON-Charles H. The faculty and staff of the Margaret M. Dyson Vision Research Institute at The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center note with profound sadness the passing of our beloved friend and benefactor. We express our deepest condolences to the Dyson family. Charles and Margaret Dyson's foresight and extraordinary generosity created a vision research center for scholars from all over the world. The faculty, both young and established scientists, all welcomed Mr. Dyson's visits for he brought with him a deep interest in our work and an abiding kindness. We shall miss his gentle presence. D. Jackson Coleman, M.D. Director of The Dyson Institute and Chairman of the Department of Ophthalmology Enrique Rodriquez-Boulan, M.D. Director of Research Dyson Institute
        DYSON-Charles H. The Pace University community mourns the passing of Charles H. Dyson, '30, valued alumnus, former Board chairman, Trustee Emeritus and generous friend. His vision and leadership are reflected in the programs and values of The Dyson College of Arts and Sciences, which was named in his honor; and in The Dyson Family Challenge, which provides the foundation and inspiration for the Campaign for Pace University that will lead the institution into the 21st Century. Our sympathy is extended to the entire Dyson family. Carl H. Pforzheimer III, Chairman Board of Trustees Patricia O. Ewers, President Charles Masiello, Dean The Dyson College of Arts and Sciences
        DYSON-Charles H. The Department of Pediatrics of The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center mourns the passing of our beloved friend Charles H. Dyson. Mr. Dyson was a devoted advocate for children and the Department of Pediatrics. We are saddened by his loss and will miss him sorely. Our deepest condolences are extended to his daughter Dr. Anne E. Dyson and the Dyson family. Maria I. New Chairman, Dept of Pediatrics
      