
        LASDON-Mildred. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and benefactor Mildred Lasdon. Mrs. Lasdon, along with her late husband William S. Lasdon, will be long remembered for their generosity and commitment to the Medical Center. From the establishment of the William and Mildred Lasdon Biomedical Research Center and the Stanley S. Lasdon Teaching Laboratories to the endowment of the Nanette Laitman Distinguished Professorship in Public Health, their devotion to the advancement of health care, medical research and education has left an indelible mark on the medical and scientific community. Our deepest condolences are extended to her children, Nanette and Robert, and the entire Lasdon family. Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Cornell University Medical College Antonio M. Gotto, Jr., M.D. Dean Cornell University Medical College John F. McGillicuddy Chairman, Board of Governors The New York Hospital David B. Skinner M.D. President The New York Hospital
        LASDON-Mildred. Yeshiva University's Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology is saddened by the passing of a devoted friend, beloved wife of the late William and mother of Nanette Laitman and Robert Lasdon. The family's generous gift to the library will advance Ferkauf's training and research programs in several vital areas of psychology. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Samson Bitensky Chairman, Board of Governors Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology Dr. Lawrence J. Siegel Dean, FGS
        LASDON-Mildred. The Board of Governors at The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Mildred Lasdon and offers its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. A. Ephraim Diamond, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary
      