
        HAUSMAN-Blanche. With profound sorrow the Board, staff and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City, mourns the passing of Blanche Hausman. For 64 years she was the beloved wife of Leo Hausman, President of the Board of Directors and for many of those years a devoted friend of children and adults with cerebral palsy and their families. We share the sorrow felt by Leo; her son Marty and daughter Jane; her daughter-in-law Helaine and sons-in-law Dick Karp and Albert Sarasohn; her granchildren Jonathan, Kenneth, James, David, & Katherine; and all the Hauman family. Many will miss her. Edward R. Matthews, Executive Director Ronald J.H. Napal, Director of Development UCP of NYC, Inc.
        HAUSMAN-Blanche. The Women's Divison of UCP of NYC, records with sorrow the passing of Blanche Hausman. Blanche was an active member of our ''Gamboling Gala'' Committee and a friend to children and adults with cerebral palsy and their families. We extend our condolences to Leo; to Marty and Helaine, Jonathan and Merrill, Ken & Susan, and Jimmy; to Jane, Dick and David; to Albert and Katherine; and to all the family. Hazel I. Weinberger, President
        HAUSMAN-Blanche. On behalf of the members of Fresh Meadow Country Club, we extend our heartfelt sympathy to Leo and the bereaved family on the passing of Blanche, the beloved wife of our longtime member. She will be missed by all of us. Richard Reitman, President Allen Kaplan, Secretary
        HAUSMAN-Blanche. The International League for the Repatriation of Russian Jews extend heartfelt sympathy to Leo Hausman, Honorary Chairman, on the loss of his beloved wife Blanche and offers condolences to the entire Hausman family. James H. Rapp, Chairman Morris Brafman, Pres.
        HAUSMAN - Blanche. Beloved wife, devoted mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. We are deeply saddened by her death and offer our comfort to Leo and the entire Hausman family. Marcia and James Rapp
        HAUSMAN-Blanche. She was not only my sister-in-law but a good friend to my late wife Ethel and myself for sixty years. She will be sorely missed. Jack Hausman
        HAUSMAN-Blanche. An elegant lady, beautiful person and good friend. We will miss you. Maureen and Irv Patron
        HAUSMAN-Blanche. I shall miss you always. I'll see you at the Featherbed Ball. Phyllis Finkel
      