
        CHANIN-Marcy. Died on March 11, Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Leona. Devoted father of Jim Chanin and Beryl Shaw, Ann and Michael Glazer, Nancy and Andrew Sneider. Loving grandfather of Rachel and Daniel Chanin, Seth, Marc and Andrew Gold and Sara Beth Glazer, David, Jodie and Samuel Sneider. Loving brother of Paul and Carol Chanin, the late Doris and Alan Freedman & Joan Schwartz. Funeral services Friday, March 14, 11 AM, Temple Israel, 112 East 75th Street. Interment Acacia Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, contributions would be appreciated to: American Jewish Congress, 15 East 84 Street, NYC 10028, American Technion Society, 810 7th Avenue, New York City 10019 or Hunter College, 695 Park Avenue, New York City, 10021.
        CHANIN-Marcy. The American Jewish Congress mourns the passing of Marcy Chanin, a giant in the Jewish community, who with his beloved wife and partner Leona, has been a fervent supporter of our work for decades. A Senior Vice President of the American Jewish Congress, Marcy's dedication and wisdom helped shape our programs for building a more just American society, supporting Israel, and strengthening the Jewish people worldwide. Marcy's values were firm and abiding, and his life was a translation of those values into practical work. Numerous constructive and imaginative projects would have gone unrealized but for his generous support and unflagging enthusiasm. His modesty, his utter lack of pretense, concealed a passionate devotion to education, to Israel and to remedying social injustice across the board. With Leona by his side, he fought tirelessly for civil rights and civil liberties in this country; he was a founder of the Louise Waterman Wise Youth Hostel in Jerusalem; and for the past ten years, he maintained and made possible the annual International Jerusalem Conference of Mayors, which has been of inestimable value in developing Israel's relationships with Jewish & non-Jewish communities around the world. Marcy's record of devotion to Jewish communal service is unrivaled, surpassed only by his unbounded love for Leona. He was the exemplar of the Jewish ideal of ''Ish Yashar V'Tamim''-one who is upright and complete. We will more than miss him; we will remain inspired by him. We extend our deepest condolences at this time of sorrow to Leona and to Jimmy, Ann and Nancy and their families. David V. Kahn, President Phil Baum, Executive Director Norman Redlich, Chair, Governing Council Belle Faber, Asst. Executive Dir.
        CHANIN-Marcy. The officers, board and staff of the American Society for Technion (ATS) mourn the untimely passing of Marcy Chanin of Palm Beach. To the last, he was an active and honored member of the ATS National Board of Directors and chairman of the board of the ATS Palm Beach Chapter. He was also a member of the Technion International Board of Governors. He and his widow Leona achieved Technion Guardian status as foremost lifetime donors to the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology. Together with his brother Paul and Paul's wife, Carol, they established the Paul R. and Marcy Chanin Genetic Engineering Building at the Technion. They also founded the Leona Chanin Genes and Growth Control Laboratory, and the yet to be dedicated Marcy & Leona Chanin and Paul & Carol Chanin Dormitory. Marcy Chanin's distinguished military service in World War II earned him a Bronze Star and the Croix de Guerre. He will be sorely missed by all whose lives were enriched and illuminated by his outstanding generosity, exemplary leadership and nobility of purpose. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Leona Chanin and their three children, to Paul and Carol Chanin and to the entire Chanin family. American Society for TechnionIsrael Institute of Technology Irving A. Shepard, President Ben Z. Sosewitz, Chairman of the Board Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Cindy Sipkin, New York Metropolitan Region Chairperson Richard Zaretsky, Palm Beach Chapter Co-President Bill Langfan, Palm Beach Chapter Co-President
        CHANIN-Marcy. The entire Hunter College community mourns the loss of Marcy Chanin, a gallant gentleman whose generosity, intelligence, compassion-and visionresulted in philanthropic endeavors that improved the health, cultural, social, and educational conditions of countless human begins everywhere. With his wife, Leona, he compiled an extraordinary record of communal leadership and philanthropy. Although he was not a graduate of Hunter College, he joined his wife, Leona, a Hunter alumna, in unflagging support of Hunter's mission to provide quality public higher education to the sons and daughters of New York City. After many years of dedicated support to Hunter, in 1991 both Leona and Marcy Chanin became founding members of the Board of Trustees of The Hunter College Foundation. Their most recent gift to the College, the Leona and Marcy Chanin Language Center, which will be a state-of-the-art facility for language study in an international atmosphere, was dedicated last October. Hunter has been privileged to benefit from Marcy Chanin's extraordinary generosity and wise counsel. We extend our deepest sympathy to his many friends and to his family, above all to his devoted wife, Leona. David A. Caputo, President, Hunter College
        CHANIN-Marcy. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our dear friend, the beloved brother of Paul Chanin, who is an esteemed member of the Einstein Board of Overseers and a past chairman of our Young Men's Division. As a member of the Einstein Society of Founders and a Guardian of the University, Marcy continued a family tradition of commitment to Jewish education and medical research and training begun by his late parents, Sylvia and Irwin S. Chanin, Benefactors of our institution. To his wife, Leona; to his children, James and Beryl Chanin, Nancy and Andrew Schneider, and Ann and Michael Glazer; to his grandchildren and to the entire family, we offer our profound sympathy. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers, Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        CHANIN-Marcy. It is with deep sorrow that we note the passing of Marcy Chanin, a founding member of The Hunter College Foundation. Marcy Chanin's steadfast dedication to Hunter College, his unwavering support demonstrated over the course of many years, is all the more remarkable since he was not a Hunter College graduate. He chose, nonetheless, to support Hunter, his wife Leona's alma mater, and shared her zeal, enthusiasm, and generosity to the College. On behalf of all the members of the Board of Trustees, I extend our sincere condolences to Leona Chanin, a cherished friend and Board member, and to all the members of the Chanin family. Floria V. Lasky, Chair, Board of Trustees, The Hunter College Foundation
        CHANIN-Marcy. Dear friend. Gentle man. A warm, magnanimous human being. We shall miss ''the old days'', the camaraderie, the shear pleasure of our being together. We grieve with Leona and the family. Naomi and Leonard Phil and Bette Betty and Mal
        CHANIN-Marcy. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Marcy Chanin, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. A. Ephraim Diamond, Pres. Robert S. Puder, Secy.
        CHANIN-Marcy. The Officers and Members of Old Oak Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member Marcy Chanin. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Leona, to his children and other members of his family. Robert K. Low, President
        CHANIN-Marcy. Your all-encompassing warmth and wonderful charm, your thoughtfulness and complete goodness-are special conversations-How much I will miss them-and you. Belle Faber
        CHANIN-Marcy. Our dear friend, a loving, kind, gentle man. His compassion and understanding will live on. Our sympathies to Leona and his family. Lola and Saul Kramer
        CHANIN-Marcy. Dear friend, how does one say goodbye after so many years of fun, happiness and friendship? We will always miss and remember you. Sydelle and Arthur Meyer
        CHANIN-Marcy. A rare man. Good, kind, generous. Our hearts go out to Leona. Norman and Elaine.
      