
        LASDON-Mildred D. Wife of the late pharmaceutical executive William S. Lasdon. Died at age 95 on March 16 in Palm Beach. She was a remarkable woman with an indomitable spirit. Her life was dedicated to enriching the lives of others through her many philanthropic endeavors in the fields of medical research, music and education. She was dearly loved and is survived by her daughter Nanette Laitman of New York City, her son Robert Lasdon of Lantana, FL, two granddaughters and four great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be held at 3 PM on March 17 at Riverside Gordon Memorial Chapel, West Palm Beach. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Library of the Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology at Yeshiva University, 500 West 185th Street, New York, NY 10033.
        LASDON-Mildred S. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deepest sorrow the passing of our dear friend and Benefactor, who, with her late husband, William, established a Chair in Pharmacology at our institution. An early charter member of our National Women's Division and member of the Society of Founders, she was a greatly loved and admired guiding force in the Women's Division through more than 40 years of dedicated service on the Board of Directors. She was a woman of uncommon wisdom and compassion, and she will be greatly missed. To her devoted children, Nanette Lasdon Laitman and Robert Lasdon, her grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and the entire family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers, Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Nancy Oelbaum, President National Women's Division Judy R. Rosenberg, Chairman Executive Committee, National Women's Division
        LASDON-Mildred. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Mildred Lasdon. With her family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of her life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved her. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
      