
        GREENBERG - Donald, March 27th, 1997. A wonderful man, a wonderful friend. Beloved husband of Roslyn, father of Susan Lebow and Debbie Schneeman, brother of Jack L. Green, grandfather of Jaime, Allison, and Kasey. Services at The Riverside, 76th and Amsterdam, Sunday, March 30th, 11:15 AM.
        GREENBERG-Donald. Our deepest sympathy to the family. A long-time friend, mentor and a true gentleman. You will be sorely missed. Fred and Anna Enrico
        GREENBERG-Donald. March 27, 1997. The Partners and Staff of H.J. Behrman & Company, LLP, express our heartfelt sympathy to the family of our partner, colleague and friend, Donald Greenberg upon his passing. We hope that they will take comfort in the fond memories he provided us all. We are all enriched by his life-long commitment to excellence in his personal and professional endeavors. His loyalty, dedication, guidance, and magnificent leadership has inspired all who came in contact with him. His words and actions reflected his quiet yet profound honesty, grace, dignity and strength of character. He will remain in our hearts forever and be sorely missed.
        GREENBERG-Donald. He was more than our accountant, more than a business associate, more than an advisor, he was our dear friend. Deeply involved in all our business ventures and sensitive to the needs of our ever-growing family, we will sorely miss him. He left us with a void that cannot be filled but will always be remembered and cherished for his warmth and friendship. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Roslyn, his children and grandchildren. The Punia Families
        GREENBERG-Donald. Rhonda and I send our most sincere and profound sympathy to the family of Donald Greenberg. The lessons he taught me will last for a lifetime. He taught me that nice guys don't always finish last. He showed me that one's dignity is a most valuable possession. He taught me that patience is truly a virtue. He gave me a chance and the room to grow under beneficent tutorage. Your guidance and friendship will be missed. Howard Krams
        GREENBERG - Donald. Our friendship goes back thirty years. Donald was one-of-a-kind-astute, incisive yet compassionate, and sensitive to the needs of his many clients. Always there when needed, always coming up with the right answers. I cherish our professional and personal relationship, and will miss the warmth of his friendship. My sincerest condolences to Ros, Susan, Debbie and the Greenberg family. Seymour D. Reich
        GREENBERG - Donald. We mournfully regret the loss of our friend, business partner, advisor and compatriot. For over forty years, we have turned to him for solace and advice. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him and everyone who loved him. Deepest regrets to Roz, her children, his brother Jack, and the entire family. Jerry, Stanley, Thelma Marx and their families
        GREENBERG-Donald. It is with profound sorrow that we note the passing of our family friend, advisor and mentor. We looked to his wisdom, logical mind, understanding and voice of reason to lead us through many difficult times over the past several decades. His absence and its accompanying silence is and will be missed. Cynthia (Marx) Marks George L. Marks
        GREENBERG-Donald. The partners of Punia and Marx, Inc., has lost a dear friend and business associate. Our warm and caring relationship over these many, many years will keep him in our hearts forever. He bettered all whom he had contact with. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Greenberg family. Punia and Marx, Inc.
        GREENBERG-Donald. We mourn the loss of our good friend and business partner for the last 45 years. We will miss his personal friendship and sound business advice. He was a truly gentle person in a really tough world. Our condolences to Roz and the family. The Aisenberg Family Rosedale Management Company
        GREENBERG-Donald. It is with deep regret that we note the passing of Donald Greenberg, our trusted business associate, confidant and friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to Roz, the children, and his brother, Jack. Patricia and Martin Goodstein Michel, Jeff, Shari
        GREENBERG-Donald. It is with deep regret that we note the passing of Donald Greenberg, our trusted business associate, confidante and friend. Patricia and Martin Goodstein, Michel Rockmore, Geoffrey Goodstein and Shari Goodstein
        GREENBERG-Donald. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Donald Greenberg, and will always cherish his wisdom, kindness and warmth. Our most sincere condolences to Roz, Susan, Debbie and his family. Sara, Victor and Fran Strauss
        GREENBERG-Donald. The Partners and employees of The Sollar Organization are deeply saddened by the passing of Donald Greenberg, our longtime friend and colleague. Our sincere condolences to Roz and the entire family. Arnold R. Sollar
        GREENBERG-Donald. We mourn the passing of a cherished colleague and friend of 55 years. Donald, a blessed memory, was a unique and beautiful human being. Our deepest condolonces to Roz and the family. Harry M. and Gladys Auerbach
        GREENBERG-Donald. We mourn the passing of Donald Greenberg, an invaluable business associate and a man of integrity. Martin Goodstein, Samuel Lewis, and the Staff of Goodstein Management, Inc.
        GREENBERG-Donald. The Kern and Shapiro families are saddened by the death of our dear friend and confidant. Our profound sympathy goes to Donald's wife Roslyn, his daughters Susan and Debbie, and his grandchildren.
        GREENBERG-Donald. To our dear friend of over 50 years. We will miss your guidance and your wisdom. Our heartfelt condolences to Roz and all the children and grandchildren. London Terrace Gardens Partners
        GREENBERG-Donald. March 27, 1997. With heartfelt regret, I mourn the death of my partner. I will miss his wise counsel, gracious manner and guidance. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Joan and Kenneth Trainor
        GREENBERG-Donald. The staff and employees of Savon Wash Corporation deeply regret the loss of Donald Greenberg. He will be missed by all who knew him. Regrets to the entire family. The Savon Wash Corporation
        GREENBERG-Donald. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and business associate. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Greenberg family. Bassuk Brothers
        GREENBERG-Donald. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Donald Greenberg. Our sympathy and condolences to his wife, Roslyn and family. Frances and Louis Levy
        GREENBERG-Donald. You were always there providing help, advice, and an example. I'll be forever grateful. Your partner, Neal Klinger
        GREENBERG-Donald. Our dear employer, good friend, mentor, and ''Mensch''. A man for all seasons. He will be greatly missed. Yetta and Joan
        GREENBERG-Donald. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague, and extend our sympathy to Ros and the entire family. Gallet Dreyer & Berkey, LLP
      