
        ROSENBAUM-Hazzan Samuel''Nafla Ateret Rosheinu...the crown of our head has fallen...'' The entire membership of the Cantors Assembly mourns the loss of its beloved Executive Vice President of more than four decades and the Cantor Emeritus of Temple Beth El of Rochester, New York. Since 1959, he served as the Executive Vice President of the Cantors Assembly, the largest organization of cantors in the world. He labored untiringly and was successful in elevating the status and role of the Cantor in Jewish worship. He was deeply involved in winning four landmark court cases to gain recognition for the Cantor as a Clergyperson. As past President, officer, and member of the Cantors Assembly since its inception, he is responsible for much of the organization's innovative programs and growth. An author, poet, and visionary, Hazzan Rosenbaum was particularly well known for his moving texts to more than a dozen major musical works presented on radio and television. His translations of Yiddish poetry and folk songs earned high praise. He authored four text books that are in wide use in Jewish religious schools across the country. He lectured extensively on Jewish music, culture and folklore. His works include ''Yizkor: In Memory of the Six Million'', an oratorio presented on ABC Television with Richard Tucker and Howard da Silva that received an Emmy nomination in 1973; ''The Last Judgement'', an oratorio with music by Lazar Weiner, presented on CBS Television; ''Stars in the Dust'', a commemorative composition of the 50th anniversary of Krystal Nacht; and ''Ever Since Babylon'', marking the 500th anniversary of Columbus' first voyage to America and the expulsion of the Jews from Spain. Numerous solo and choral works and four Holiday recordings, narrated and written by Hazzan Rosenbaum, comprise another segment of his creativity. He was managing Editor of the Assembly's ''Journal of Synagogue Music'', consultant to the ''Prayer Book Press'' and author of ''A Yiddish Word Book for English Speaking People''. He was a graduate of New York University and of the Herzliah Hebrew Teachers College. He studied music and voice privately and prepared for the Cantorate under Cantor Jacob Beimel and Cantor Adolph Katchko. Cantor Rosenbaum was granted a Doctor of Music Degree, honoris causa, by the Jewish Theological Seminary in May 1985 and received three Cantors Assembly Kavod Awards for originality and variety in Jewish music programming. At the time of his demise, he was writing a major commentary to the High Holiday Prayer Book entitled ''Machzor 101''. We lift our ''Kos Tanchumim-Cup of Consolation'' to his beloved wife, Ina, and to his children Judy (and Thomas) Witt, Michael Rosenbaum , and David Rosenbaum, and to his grandchildren Abigail, Daniel and Adam. Hazzan Abraham Lubin, President Hazzan Abraham Shapiro, Executive Administrator
      