
        WEISGALL-Hugo David, on March 11, 1997, aged 84. Devoted husband of Nathalie, loving father of Deborah and Jonathan, fatherin-law of Ruth Weisgall and Throop Wilder, adoring grandfather of Alison, Andrew, Benjamin Weisgall, and Charlotte Wilder. Services March 12th, 2:30 PM, Feinberg Auditorium, Jewish Theological Seminary, Broadway and 122nd Street.
        WEISGALL-Hugo. The faculty, administration, board of directors and students of the Jewish Theological Seminary record with profound sorrow the passing of our great teacher, Dr. Hugo Weisgall. A world renowned composer whose operas and other works make him one of America's leading musical lights and whose liturgical works combine the central and eastern European tradition of Hazzanut with the musical and cultural influences of the Western world, Dr. Weisgall was one of the founders of the Seminary's H.L. Miller Cantorial School and served as chairman of its faculty since 1952. The recipient of numerous awards and citations, he was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Seminary in 1976. A fiercely committed Jew, his life was a model of spiritual and artistic excellence. With his passing, an era comes to an end. May his memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Board Chairman
        WEISGALL-Hugo. It is with profound sadness that the New York City Opera notes the passing of Hugo Weisgall, one of the great composers of the 20th century, and a dear friend of our company. His long relationship with us dates back to 1959, when ''Six Characters in Search of an Author'' received its world premiere at City Opera, and continued throughout the years to our triumphant world premiere of ''Esther'' in 1993. He was committed to opera as a living art form, and his contributions to the world of music are immeasureable. He was a devoted teacher, an eloquent musician, and a dear friend of the company. We will miss him. Paul Kellogg General Director
        WEISGALL-Hugo. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers joins the world music community in mourning the passing of our member Hugo Weisgall, in New York on Mar. 11, 1997. Dr. Weisgall was a distinguished composer of opera and chamber music and a dedicated advocate for 20th century American music. His wisdom and leadership will be greatly missed. Marilyn Bergman President and Chairman, ASCAP
        WEISGALL-Hugo. The members of the American Academy of Arts and Letters note with sorrow the death of their esteemed colleague whose passing will be mourned by the world of music.
      