
        GREENBERG - Donald, March 27th, 1997. A wonderful man, a wonderful friend. Beloved husband of Roslyn, father of Susan Lebow and Debbie Schneeman, brother of Jack L. Green, grandfather of Jaime, Allison, and Kasey. Services at The Riverside, 76th and Amsterdam, Sunday, March 30th, 11:15 AM.
        GREENBERG-Donald. March 27, 1997. The Partners and Staff of H.J. Behrman & Company, LLP, express our heartfelt sympathy to the family of our partner, colleague and friend, Donald Greenberg upon his passing. We hope that they will take comfort in the fond memories he provided us all. We are all enriched by his life-long commitment to excellence in his personal and professional endeavors. His loyalty, dedication, guidance, and magnificent leadership has inspired all who came in contact with him. His words and actions reflected his quiet yet profound honesty, grace, dignity and strength of character. He will remain in our hearts forever and be sorely missed.
        GREENBERG-Donald. He was more than our accountant, more than a business associate, more than an advisor, he was our dear friend. Deeply involved in all our business ventures and sensitive to the needs of our ever-growing family, we will sorely miss him. He left us with a void that cannot be filled but will always be remembered and cherished for his warmth and friendship. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Roslyn, his children and grandchildren. The Punia Families
        GREENBERG-Donald. Rhonda and I send our most sincere and profound sympathy to the family of Donald Greenberg. The lessons he taught me will last for a lifetime. He taught me that nice guys don't always finish last. He showed me that one's dignity is a most valuable possession. He taught me that patience is truly a virtue. He gave me a chance and the room to grow under beneficent tutorage. Your guidance and friendship will be missed. Howard Krams
        GREENBERG - Donald. Our friendship goes back thirty years. Donald was one-of-a-kind-astute, incisive yet compassionate, and sensitive to the needs of his many clients. Always there when needed, always coming up with the right answers. I cherish our professional and personal relationship, and will miss the warmth of his friendship. My sincerest condolences to Ros, Susan, Debbie and the Greenberg family. Seymour D. Reich
        GREENBERG-Donald. Sir Donald, to a man whose time was yours, who understood and performed in his inimitable easy going indomitable manner. A jewel in the business jungle, a man unique in his modesty, his self depreciation and sincere caring for the problems of others. We loved you, we will miss you. Our sincerest condolences to Roz and his wonderful family. Barbara and Alvin E. Orlian
        GREENBERG - Donald. We mournfully regret the loss of our friend, business partner, advisor and compatriot. For over forty years, we have turned to him for solace and advice. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him and everyone who loved him. Deepest regrets to Roz, her children, his brother Jack, and the entire family. Jerry, Stanley, Thelma Marx and their families
        GREENBERG-Donald. It is with profound sorrow that we note the passing of our family friend, advisor and mentor. We looked to his wisdom, logical mind, understanding and voice of reason to lead us through many difficult times over the past several decades. His absence and its accompanying silence is and will be missed. Cynthia (Marx) Marks George L. Marks
        GREENBERG-Donald. The partners of Punia and Marx, Inc., has lost a dear friend and business associate. Our warm and caring relationship over these many, many years will keep him in our hearts forever. He bettered all whom he had contact with. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Greenberg family. Punia and Marx, Inc.
        GREENBERG-Donald. To our dear friend of over 50 years. We will miss your guidance and your wisdom. Our heartfelt condolences to Roz and all the children and grandchildren. London Terrace Gardens Partners
        GREENBERG-Donald. March 27, 1997. With heartfelt regret, I mourn the death of my partner. I will miss his wise counsel, gracious manner and guidance. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Joan and Kenneth Trainor
        GREENBERG-Donald. The staff and employees of Savon Wash Corporation deeply regret the loss of Donald Greenberg. He will be missed by all who knew him. Regrets to the entire family. The Savon Wash Corporation
        GREENBERG-Donald. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Donald Greenberg. Our sympathy and condolences to his wife, Roslyn and family. Frances and Louis Levy
        GREENBERG-Donald. You were always there providing help, advise, and an example. I'll be forever greatful. Your partner, Neal Klinger
        GREENBERG-Donald. Our dear employer, good friend, mentor, and (Mensch). A man for all seasons. He will be greatly missed. Yetta and Joan
        GREENBERG-Donald. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague, and extend our sympathy to Ros and the entire family. Gallet Dreyer & Berkey, LLP
      