
        LEYDET-Francois G. The death of Francois Leydet brings to end a life filled with joy, adventure, love and accomplishment. Born 26 August 1927 at Neuilly-sur-Seine (France), he became a U.S. citizen in 1956 after attending prep school and colleges in both France and the U.S.: bachelor's degree, University of Paris, 1945; bachelor's degree, Harvard University, 1947; Harvard Business School, 1948/9 and 1950/62; School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, 1952/3. Fluent in English and French, Francois spoke several other languages and delighted in puns and other word play. In recent years he devoted much effort to institutions he believed in, serving as a docent at the Arizona-Sonora Desert Museum, and as an active worker and supporter of Planned Parenthood. Among his many ''careers'' were experience in investment banking, wrangler on ranches in Oregon, crewing shrimpboats in the Gulf of California, and rowing dories through the Grand Canyon, but always there was writing. Starting as a copyboy for the Washington ''Evening Star'' in 1953, Francois worked at the San Francisco ''Chronicle'', 1954/62, and ''Examiner'', 1962/3, before turning to freelance writing, specializing in nature, wildlife and conservation subjects, for the remainder of his life. He edited and wrote books for the Sierra Club (''Tomorrow's Wilderness'', 1963, ''The Last Redwoods'', 1963, the award winning ''Time and the River Flowing''-about the Grand Canyon-1964), and a comprehensive book about the maligned and misunderstood coyote, ''The Coyote, Defiant Songdog of the West'', 1977; passengers on his river trips can remember Francois climbing on the ledges above the river and howling like a coyote and in later years at least one friend often referred to him as ''The Old Coyote''. Francois' essays and articles appeared in magazines and journals as diverse as ''National Geographic'', ''American West'', ''Holiday'', ''Harvard Magazine'' and ''Vogue''. Though never published, his sonnets, odes and other poetry were a delight shared with his friends and family. Francois died Tuesday, March 4, of complications following a diagnosis and treatment for lung cancer, in Tucson, Arizona, where he lived with his wife Roslyn since 1990. He leaves cherished dogs, Bruno, Max, Mortimer and Emma. Francois is survived by the people he loved, who adored him in return, his wife of 27 years, Roslyn (Tucson), his step-children: Walter Robb (San Francisco), Dr. Rachel Avery (Portland, ME), Holly Prunty (Palo Alto), Peckie Peters (Vail), and 9-3/4 grandchildren. His siblings are brother Hugues Leydet (Montreal, Canada) and sister Beatrice Mosca (Rome, Italy). A Memorial service will be held later in the spring after grandchild 10 is born. The family requests that memorial donations in lieu of flowers or other memorials be made to the Arizona-Sonora Desert Museum or Planned Parenthood.
      