
        GUTERMAN-Simeon. We extend our Kos Tanchumim to Sidney Adler on the loss of his beloved brother-in-law, and to Silver Founder Abraham Guterman on the loss of his beloved brother. When a history of the Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem will be written, an important chapter will be devoted to the outstanding devotion, generosity of heart & leadership on behalf of Israel's ''Hospital with a Heart'' by Sidney and Betty Adler and members of their family. That is because from the very inception of the hospital, the Adler family has played a vital role in providing compassionate medical care to the people of Jerusalem. Sidney serves as Treasurer of the American Comittee and together with Betty is a Diamond Founder of the hospital. They have continued the family's involvement through the participation of their son David, who serves on the Metropolitan Cabinet, and who is a Founder of the Hospital along with his wife Renee. May the entire family have warm and loving memories of Simeon Guterman and may they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee of the Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Charles H. Bendheim, President Erica Jesselson, Chairperson of the Board Lee Weinbach, Secretary International Board of Governors Menno Ratzker, Chairman Morris Talansky, Executive Vice Chairman
        GUTERMAN-Dr. Simeon L. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a distinguished historian and educator, professor emeritus of history and dean of Yeshiva College 1953-59, beloved husband of Bette. A dedicated, pioneering administrator, he helped develop the College into the institution it is today, and later chaired the new social science education program at the predecessor school of our Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology. Brother of Abraham S. Guterman-devoted alumnus and YU Benefactor with his late wife, Irene, and YU trustee and director of our Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law-Dr. Simeon Guterman was the son of the late, revered Rabbi Henry Guterman, Chief Rabbi of Scranton (PA), also a devoted alumnus. Our heartfelt condolences as well to sister, Hazel Schwab, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        GUTERMAN-Dr. Simeon. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Betty Guterman on the loss of her beloved husband, Dr. Simeon Guterman. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President
      