
        FOX-Everett V. The trustees, faculty, and staff of New York University Medical Center deeply mourn the loss of Everett V. Fox age 81, March 3, former Secretary and Vice President of the Medical Center. Mr. Fox joined the Medical Center in 1965 as administrator for its affiliation contracts. He was appointed Vice President and Administrator of University Hospital in 1974. Later he was promoted to Vice President and Secretary of NYU Medical Center and was an Associate Professor of Hospital Adminstration at NYU School of Medicine. In 1973 the American Hospital Association honored him for his contributions to health care. Mr. Fox also visited the Soviet Union in 1975 as a participant in the USA-USSR Citizens Exchange Conference on the delivery of health care. Mr. Fox was a founder and the first President of the National Association of Health Service Executives (NAHSE), formed by AfricanAmerican hospital executives to ensure greater participation of African-Americans in health care. Mr. Fox was a member of several other professional groups including the American College of Hospital Administrators. He also served in an advisory capacity to the National Institutes of Health, The United Hospital Fund of N.Y. and the US Public Health Services. Mr. Fox retired from NYU Medical Center in 1984. He lived in Manhattan for many years. Born June 16, 1915 in Richmond, VA, Mr. Fox earned a BS degree from Hampton Institute in Hampton, VA and an MBA degree from the University of Chicago. After a tour of duty in the US Navy during W.W. II, he married Laura Kellum. They spent 48 years together separated only by her death in 1990. Mr. Fox is survived by his sister, Aurelia Leggett, his brother Carroll Porter, his niece Pamela Pitts and nephew Duane Porter all of Chicago. Mr. Fox was a trustee of the Riverside Church, and services will be held there at 490 Riverside Drive, Manhattan, Friday, March 7, 11 A.M., with Dr. James A. Forbes presiding. Visiting will be at 10 A.M. and a reception will follow the services. Mr. Fox will be buried in Winston-Salem, NC. Thomas S. Murphy, Chairman Board of Trustees NYU Medical Center Sol J. Farber, MD MACP Provost and Dean NYU Medical Center and School of Medicine Margaret L. Mc Clure RN Ed.D Vice President of Hospital Operations and Executive Director of Nursing, NYU Medical Center
      