
        GOLDEN-Sam, Lake Worth, FL. Mr. Sam Golden, 82, of Columbus, NY died unexpectedly at Wellington Community Regional Hospital, Wellington, FL on Tuesday, March 11, 1997. He was predeceased by his wife of 51 years Adele, and is survived by four children: Tom Golden of Tenafly, NJ; Mark Golden and his wife Barbara of Earlville, NY; Jo-Ann Golden of Lake Worth, FL; Steven Golden and his wife Marilyn of Easton, PA; grandchildren Jean Marc Golden of Tenafly, NJ; Tania Golden of Buffalo, NY; Callen and Emma Golden of Earlville, NY; Michelle Golden and Joshua Golden of Easton, PA; and one great grandchild Joshua Golden-Asseo of Buffalo, NY. Sam Golden, the founder of Golden Artist Colors, an internationally recognized manufacturer of artists colors in Columbus, NY, started his paint making career in New York City in 1936. Sam, a partner in Bocour Artist Colors, Inc., with his Uncle Leonard Bocour, until his first retirement in 1972, was called a ''20th Century alchemist'' for his breakthrough work in modern synthetic paints for artist's use. Sam collaborated with many well known artists, providing custom materials for their individual use. Sam's innovative work has been credited as having a profound influence on the direction of modern art and its use of acrylic paint. After a long career as paintmaker, inventor, chemist, and a brief try at the retired life, Sam, at the age of 67 with wife Adele, son Mark and his wife Barbara and Chuck Kelly, formed Golden Artist Colors. This new company was created to perpetuate Sam's lifelong dedication to serving the professional artist. Sam had, in recent years, begun painting and had exhibited his work at both the Chenango County Council of the Arts and the Earlville Opera House Gallery. In 1996, Sam was honored by receiving the first Entrepreneur of the Year Award given by the Chenango County Chamber of Commerce. A family graveside service was held at the Beth David Cemetery in Elmont, Long Island on March 14. A memorial service for friends of Sam will be held at a later date. Memorial contributions may be sent to the Sam and Adele Golden Foundation for the Arts, c/o Golden Artist Colors, Inc., 188 Bell Road, New Berlin, NY 13411.
      