
        HETSKO-Cyril F., 85, retired Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Director of American Brands, Inc., died Saturday, March 1, of complications of pneumonia at The Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, NJ. Mr. Hetsko was instrumental in the diversification during the 1960's and 1970's of The American Tobacco Company into what became American Brands, Inc., a broad based international consumer products company. Prior to joining The American Tobacco Company, Mr. Hetsko was a partner in the New York law firm of Chadbourne, & Parke. Mr. Hetsko was President of the United States Trademark Association (now International Trademark Association) in 1965 and 1966. Mr. Hetsko was a key member of the management team leading the transformation of American Tobacco into American Brands with the acquisition of companies such as Sunshine Biscuits, Inc., DuffyMott Company, Inc., James B. Beam Distilling Co., Master Lock Company, Andrew Jergens Company, Swingline, Inc., Acushnet Company, Wilson Jones Company, Acme Visible Records, Inc., & Gallaher Ltd. (United Kingdom). Mr. Hetsko served on the Boards of Directors of these companies subsequent to their acquisition. Mr Hetsko was born October 4, 1911, in Scranton, PA., and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Dickinson College in 1933. He graduated from the University of Michigan Law School in 1936 where he was a member of the Order of the Coif. Immediately after receiving his law degree, Mr. Hetsko joined the New York law firm then known as Chadbourne, Parke, Whiteside & Wolff, becoming a partner in 1955. In 1964, he resigned his partnership to join The American Tobacco Company as General Counsel, and was named Vice President and elected to the Board of Directors in January of 1965. Mr. Hetsko was a member of the New York, Pennsylvania and Federal Bars, including The Supreme Court of the United States. He was a member of the American Bar Association and the Association of the Bar of the City of New York. For over 15 years, he served as a member of the Board of Directors of the United States Trademark Association. He also served as its President and Executive Vice President in the mid 1960's. Mr. Hetsko was involved in a number of community activities in Ridgewood, NJ, where he and his wife resided for over 40 years, including Boy Scouts, the Session of West Side Presbyterian Church, and the Ridgewood High School Jamboree, which he co-produced in 1960. Mr. Hetsko was a member of the Hobbyists Unlimited Club of Ridgewood and of The Explorers Club of New York City. He and his wife traveled extensively to remote areas of the world, and lectured on their experiences in Bhutan, Tibet, China, Ladakh and Mongolia. Mr. Hetsko is survived by his wife of sixty-five years, Josephine Stein Hetsko; two daughters, Jacqueline Kaufer of Ridgewood, NJ, and Cynthia Rainey of Lawrence, KS; two sons, Cyril M. Hetsko, M.D. of Madison, WI, and Jeffrey F. Hetsko, Esq., of Atlanta, GA; a brother, Richard Hetsko of Middlefield, CT; and five grandchildren.
      