
        FINK-Stanley. Stanley Fink was one of the great leaders of New York State. As the Democratic Leader of the New York State Senate while he was Speaker of the Assembly, I was proud to be his partner in many of the great accomplishments in which he led the way: The first of several major capital financing packages for the MTA; the restructuring of the finances of the CUNY and SUNY systems; and his leadership in helping restore the City of New York to fiscal solidity, were among these projects. I was proud to work with him and to be able to consider myself one of his close personal friends. In private life he also succeeded brilliantly. He was a leading member of the team which is masterminding the pending merger of the Bell Atlantic and NYNEX systems. He took enormous pride in this work and committed the full range of his talents to it. He would have counted the successful conclusion of this effort as one of his crowning achievements. My colleagues and I join in expressing our heartfelt condolences to his wife Judy and his sons Mark and Keith. Manfred Ohrenstein Ohrenstein & Brown, Esqs. TPG Advisors, Inc., The Professional Group
        FINK-Stanley. The Board of Directors, staff, and residents of Phoenix House mourn the passing of Stanley Fink. A thoughtful and compassionate legislator, he sought and found practical and humane solutions to many of New York's most troubling problems. He came early to understand the problems created by substance abuse, recognized the need for treatment and other services, and did much to build and sustain, in New York State, the world's most comprehensive substance abuse services system. Charles A. Heimbold, Jr., Chmn. Mitchell S. Rosenthal, M.D., Pres. Phoenix House Foundation
        FINK-Stanley. The President, Administration, Faculty, Staff and Students at Baruch College mourn the passing of Stanley Fink former member of the Board of Trustees of the University. We will remember him for his commitment, inspired leadership and unstinting efforts on behalf of the University. He was an outstanding human being who will be missed by all who were touched by hime. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Judith, his sons and their families. Matthew Goldstein, President Baruch College
      