
        DYSON-Charles H. It was a Spring morning, a quarter-century ago, when word first traveled down to the Village Green in Millbrook that a handful of young teenagers had moved into the little white house on the hill, formerly The Millbrook Manor. The word was ''Daytop'' and the currency was ''drug abuse''. The Town was still recoiling from the blemish of Timothy Leary's sojourn there and his gospel of 'dropping out' and hopelessness. Charles Dyson was the very first to arrive at our door, greeted by the radiant, hope-filled faces of young Daytoppers, bent on recovery of their lives. He found it difficult to tear himself away that morning and down through these years remained ''our Kids' best Friend'' and Neighbor. Each Christmas Eve, our love unfolded all over again as our Daytop Christmas Choristers made their way to his door. Oftentimes, I mused that he surely meditated upon O. Henry's somber reflection: ''No calamity so touches the common heart of humanity as does the straying of a little child. Their feet are so uncertain and feeble; their paths so steep and strange.'' His incredible capacity for caring has left with us indelible footprints of a life well-lived. May he be welcomed home by his beloved 'Lord of the Little Ones.' Our prayerful support for the Dyson Family. (Msgr.) William B. O'Brien President Daytop Village, Inc.
        DYSON-Charles H. Cornell University mourns the loss of a cherished friend and benefactor. Charles H. Dyson was a loving father, a distinguished man of business, and a thoughtful and generous philanthropist. Through the Dyson Foundation, he touched numerous lives, and his example inspired his children to dedicate themselves to improving the quality of life for others. At the Medical College and on the Ithaca campus, the Dyson name is associated with compassion and leadership and is carried forward today by Medical College Board of Overseer Anne E. Dyson and Cornell trustees John S. Dyson '65 and Robert R. Dyson, MBA '74. Charles Dyson was a friend to many and an inspiration to all. We join the Dyson family in their loss and in celebrating the life of this kind, visionary, and inspiring man. Stephen H. Weiss Chairman, Board of Trustees Cornell University Hunter R. Rawlings III President, Cornell University
        DYSON-Charles H. It is with great sadness that the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., mourn the passing of Charles H. Dyson. His generosity of spirit and encouragement informed his thoughtful philanthropy and enriched us all. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, June, to his children, John, Robert, Anne and Peter; and to his family. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, Pres. Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        DYSON-Charles H. The Board and Staff of the Conservation of Human Resources deeply mourned the loss of our Chairman Emeritus, dear friend and dedicated supporter, Charles H. Dyson. He will always be remembered for his devotion and wise counsel to those at CHR an agency he helped established in 1979. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the entire Dyson family. Conservation of Human Resources, Millbrook, NY
        DYSON-Charles H. The Members of the Board of Directors and the Officers of The 740 Park Corporation mourn the passing of their colleague, friend and neighbor. His unstinting service to his neighbors, his kindness and unfailing courtesy earned him the respect and affectionate regard of all who worked with him. Heartfelt condolences to his wife, June, and to his children and grandchildren.
        DYSON-Charles H. The Trustees and staff of the Museum of the City of New York express deepest sympathy to our esteemed Trustee June Marston Dyson on the death of her husband Charles H. Dyson. Louis S. Auchincloss, Chairman David C. Clapp, President Robert R. Macdonald, Director
      