
        HORNSTEIN-Gertrude. The Hebrew Academy of Nassau County mourns the passing of Gertrude Hornstein, a gracious and beloved friend. She and her late husband, Moses Hornstein, pursued many philanthropic endeavors. Their magnanimity helped make many of the Hebrew Academy of Nassau County's dreams, and aspirations of other institutions, reality. Her love and devotion were always felt by family and friends. Gertrude Hornstein was a grand lady and she brings to a close an era never to be replicated. Our sincerest condolences to children Larry and Francine Hornstein and Judy and Eugene Goldman, grandchildern Meryl and Mark Nachbar, David Hornstein, Pam and Danny Fried, Jeff and Laurie Goldberger, Michael and Robin goldman, sisters Eve Ferster, Ann Holtzer, Jean Tierney, Helen, and Roslyn. Rabbi Moshe Gottesman, Dean Rabbi Yussie Lieber,Admin. Harvey S. Liebman, President Isaac Blachor, Chairman of Board
        HORNSTEIN-Gertrude. The administration, faculty, student body and board of directors of the Jewish Theological Seminary record with sorrow the passing of Gertrude Hornstein, staunch supporter of the Seminary for over 3 decades. Together with her late husband, Moses, a member of the Seminary's Society of Fellows, Mrs. Hornstein established a charitable remainder trust which will benefit generations of Jewish educators being trained at the Seminary's William Davidson Graduate School of Jewish Education and enrich the lives of untold numbers of children. May her memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Board Chairman
        HORNSTEIN-Gertrude. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a dear friend, a YU Guardian and, with her late husband Moses, a Founder of our Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Fellow of our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. We extend our heartfelt condolences to children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
      