
        WEISGALL-Dr. Hugo. The officers and members of the Cantors Assembly record in deep sadness the passing of one of the great American composers of our generation. Superbly skilled in opera and lied composition, recipient of numerous prestigious awards, a stubbornly dedicated teacher and mentor, a gifted conductor and scholar in a wide variety of disciplines, a truly learned and observant and talented Jew. For us, of the Cantors Assembly, he wil long be remembered as the driving force behind the organization of the Cantors Institute of the Jewish Theological Seminary in 1952. He quickly managed to bring to the faculty of the new school a wide array of important figures in the cantorate, in liturgical composition, and well-known instructors in the field of classical music. He vowed to devote the Institute's resources toward developing the great tradition of Jewish music and the training of Hazzanim who would some day serve the great American Jewish community's synagogues. As Chairman of the Faculty, his chief aim for the school would be to communicate through the medium of music, the spirit inherent in Judaism. He succeeded in both of his high goals beyond his own dreams. After four decades, his school and his curriculum produced over one hundred and seventy graduates, who day in and day out strive to carry out his plan for them. They, and we who helped establish the school, are a living memorial to his vision and talent. May his memory abide as a blessing for us all. Hazzan Abraham Lubin, President Hazzan Samuel Rosenbaum, Executive Vice President
        WEISGALL-Hugo. It is with profound sadness that the New York City Opera notes the passing of Hugo Weisgall, one of the great composers of the 20th century, and a dear friend of our company. His long relationship with us dates back to 1959, when ''Six Characters in Search of an Author'' received its world premiere at City Opera, and continued throughout the years to our triumphant world premiere of ''Esther'' in 1993. He was committed to opera as a living art form, and his contributions to the world of music are immeasureable. He was a devoted teacher, an eloquent musician, and a dear friend of the company. We will miss him. Paul Kellogg General Director
        WEISGALL-Hugo. The entire Lyric Opera of Chicago family mourns the passing of Hugo Weisgall, eminent director of our Brena and Lee Freeman, Sr. Composerin-residence program since 1986. His glorious musical sensibilities, his brilliant sense of dramatic timing, his keen mind, and his big heart were the powers behind the unique success of the Freeman Composer-in-Residence Program. All of our lives are richer for having had the honor and privilege to know him. William Mason General Director
        WEISGALL-Hugo. Meet The Composer mourns the death of Hugo Weisgall, a long-time member of the Board of Advisors. One of the seminal figures in post-war opera, he was a man of towering integrity and talent. Opinionated, charming, and brilliantly articulate on a wide variety of subjects, Mr. Weisgall never wavered in his commitment to, and belief in, his audience, his students, and his readers. The world is a poorer place without him. Omus Hirshbein, President Frederick W. Peters, Chairman of the Board
        WEISGALL-Hugo. The Theodore Presser Company is saddened by the death of Hugo Weisgall. He will be remembered as one of the most important composers of the Twentieth Century. His musical legacy is a treasure that will be shared by many generations. We will miss him. Thomas Broido, President
      