
        GRANGER - Percy. Playwright, screenwriter and actor, 51, died Tues, March 10, of cardiac arrest. He was the son of Dr. Bruce Granger, retired professor of English at the University of Oklahoma, and Rosemary Ingham, painter. He graduated from Harvard University magna cum laude in 1967. He began his playwrighting career at the Provincetown Playhouse with ''The Complete Works of Studs Edsel,'' which was later produced at the Folger Shakespeare Theatre Company, Washington, DC and then at the Ensemble Studio Theatre in NYC. His play, ''Eminent Domain,'' was selected for The National Playwrights Conference at the Eugene O'Neill Theatre Center in 1977 and then on Broadway at Circle in the Square in 1982. He wrote for Radio Mystery Theatre, was one of the creators of ''Loving,'' the daytime soap, and for ''As The World Turns.'' His screenwriting credits include ''My Brother's Wife'' and ''The Comeback.'' His play ''Vivian'' premiered at the Ensemble Studio Theatre, then at The Vivian Beaumont Theatre at Lincoln Center. ''Dolphin Position'' premiered at the Ensemble Studio Theatre and then an expanded version was performed at East Coast Arts and Primary Stages in NYC. ''Scheherazade'' premiered at the Ensemble as well and was subsequently produced in Los Angeles. He was one of the founding members of the Ensemble Studio Theatre, where several of his other plays were premiered. His last finished play, ''Coyote Hangin on a Barbed Wire Fence,'' was also selected for the National Playwrights Conference in 1990. It was to premiere on Broadway at Circle in the Square in spring of '93 but Percy suffered a cardiac arrest Sept. 8, 1992, which left him unable to continue his life work. His acting career spanned thirty years. He played Verlaine in the North American premiere of ''Rimbaud'' and performed numerous other roles. He was an avid sports enthusiast and played rugby with the New York Rugby Club. He taught playwrighting at the 52nd St Project and worked in the St. Ignatius Soup Kitchen. From the time of his initial heart attack until his death, Percy often visited the Option Institute in Sheffield, MA who taught his family and volunteers to run a stimulation and education program designed for him. He is survived by his wife, MariElena Granger, and his sons, Andrew and James. A memorial service will be held at the St. Ignatius Episcopal Church, 552 West End Avenue at 1 PM on Thurs, March 13. In lieu of flowers the family requests that a donation be made in his name to the Option Institute and Fellowship, 2080 S. Undermountain Rd, Sheffield, MA 01257.
      