
        HORNSTEIN - Gertrude. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a cherished member of its extended family. Gertrude Hornstein, together with her beloved husband, Moses, who served as Chairman of the school's Building Committee, transformed the Boys Town dream into a reality as they led the effort to develop a tract of barren land into a magnificent 18 acre campus. Their more than three decades of generous support went far beyond the school's bricks and mortar as they invested in the lives of its students, both past, present and future. The perpetual scholarship assistance made possible through the Moses and Gertrude Hornstein Scholarship Endowment enables Boys Town to continue its mission of turning young boys from limited backgrounds into young men with limitless futures. May Gertrude's soul be united in the bond of everlasting life with her beloved Moses, and may their memories be a source of eternal blessing. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Alexander S. Linchner, Vice Chair Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Exec. VP Rabbi Simcha Freedman, Exec. Dir., Florida Friends of BTJ
        HORNSTEIN-Gertrude. Of Hollywood, Florida, formerly of Merrick, L.I. Passed away March 23, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Moses. Devoted mother of Larry and Francine and Judy and Gene Goldman. Cherished grandmother of Meryl and Mark Nachbar, David Hornstein, Pam and Danny Fried, Jeff and Laurie Goldberger, Michael and Robin Goldman. Most special and adored greatgrandma to Perry, Sydney, Cody, Kyle, Jamie and Jared. She was their best friend. Special friend to Eunice Mendes. Devoted sister of Eve Ferster, Ann Holtzer, Jean Tierney, Helen and Philip Schectman, Roslyn and the late Ira Schectman. Services Tuesday 1 PM, 3/25/97, at the Riverside Nassau-North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the Dysautonomia Foundation, 20 East 46 Street, NY NY 10017, or the Long Island Hearing and Speech Society, 430 Lakeville Rd, New Hyde Park, New York 11042.
      