
        CHANIN-Marcy. Died on March 11, Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Leona. Devoted father of Jim Chanin and Beryl Shaw, Ann and Michael Glazer, Nancy and Andrew Sneider. Loving grandfather of Rachel and Daniel Chanin, Seth, Marc and Andrew Gold and Sara Beth Glazer, David, Jodie and Samuel Sneider. Loving brother of Paul and Carol Chanin, the late Doris and Alan Freedman & Joan Schwartz. Funeral services Friday, March 14, 11 AM, Temple Israel, 112 East 75th Street. Interment Acacia Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, contributions would be appreciated to: American Jewish Congress, 15 East 84 Street, NYC 10028, American Technion Society, 810 7th Avenue, New York City 10019 or Hunter College, 695 Park Avenue, New York City, 10021.
        CHANIN-Marcy. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Marcy Chanin. An active and generous philanthropist & outstanding Jewish communal leader, he was a committed friend and supporter of UJA-Federation. He and his wife, Leona, have improved countless lives in New York and in Israel through their generosity. We extend our deepest sympathies to Leona; his brother, Paul and sister-in-law, Carol; his sister, Joan Schwartz; his children, Jim Chanin and Beryl Shaw, Ann and Michael Glazer, and Nancy and Andrew Sneider; his grandchildren, and the entire family. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Larry A. Silverstein, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        CHANIN-Marcy. The Board of Directors of the Scholarship and Welfare Fund of the Alumni Association of Hunter College mourns the death of Marcy Chanin, husband of Leona F. Chanin, a Director of the Fund for many years. Their outstanding generosity and dedication to the students of Hunter College is greatly appreciated. We extend our sympathy to Leona and her family. Leah D. Greisman, Pres. Scholarship and Welfare Fund Alumni Assn. of Hunter College
        CHANIN-Marcy. On behalf of the Board, staff and elders of DOROT, deepest condolences to Leona Chanin, Joan Schwartz and the Freedman family on the loss of their beloved husband, brother and uncle. With his family, Mr. Chanin took to heart the plight of the frail, homebound, elderly and strove to improve their lives through his support of DOROT. He is truly a blessed memory. Renee Adler Ascher, Pres. Vivian Fenster Ehrlich, Exec. Dir.
        CHANIN-Marcy. It is with deep sorrow that we mourn the passing of Marcy Chanin, member of the Board of Directors and ardent supporter of the United Hebrew Geriatric Center for many years. Condolences are extended to the bereaved family. David Shatz, President Malcolm Lazarus, Chairman Rita C. Mabli, Executive Vice President
        CHANIN-Marcy. The Board of Trustees and Friends Of Town Hall mourn the loss of a good friend and fellow trustee. He will be sorely missed by all whose lives were enriched by his outstanding generosity, compassion and leadership. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Leona, and family. Marvin Leffler, President
        CHANIN-Marcy. Your all-encompassing warmth and wonderful charm, your thoughtfulness and complete goodness-our special conversations-How much I will miss them-and you. Belle Faber
        CHANIN-Marcy. Dear friend, how does one say goodbye after so many years of fun, happiness and friendship? We will always miss and remember you. Sydelle and Arthur Meyer
      