
        LONNER-Sassi. On March 4, 1997. Beloved wife of Fred Lonner, mother of David Lonner, Sharon Prince, and Jonathan Lonner, sister of Jakim Notea. Born in Tel Aviv, Israel. Contributions may be made to the American Committee for Shaare Zedek Hospital in Jerusalem, 49 West 45th St, Suite 1100, New York, NY 10109 and International Medical Search Network, 820 2nd Ave, Suite 1701, New York, NY 10017. Family is sitting shiva at 160 W. 66 St, New York, NY 10023.
        LONNER-Sassi. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Fred Lonner on the loss of his beloved wife, Sassi. To anyone who had the good fortune of knowing her, she was a source of happiness and joy. She was a righteous woman who personified the qualities of elegance, grace and extraordinary dignity. Together, the Lonners built a family dedicated to Jewish values and devotion to Eretz Yisrael. As Diamond Founders and longtime supporters of the Shaare Zedek Medical Center's National Women's Division, they expressed their love of Klal Yisrael and their commitment to providing compassionate medical care through their exemplary support of the Jesselson Heart Center and cancer research projects. The patients, physicians and nurses at the Hospital will remember Sassi with gratitude for being their ''Partner in Healing''. May the family have warm and loving memories of a very special, caring wife, mother and grandmother. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee of the Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Charles H. Bendheim, President Erica Jesselson, Chairperson of the Board Sidney G. Adler, Treasurer Lee Weinbach, President, National Women's Division International Board of Governors Menno Ratzker, Chairman Morris Talansky, Executive Vice Chairman
        LONNER-Sassi. The Jericho Jewish Center of Jericho, L.I., New York, sadly mourns the passing of Sassi Lonner. Our heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Stanley Steinhart Cantor Israel Goldstein Barry Arnold, President Herb Stein, Vice-President The Board of Trustees
      