
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French (Mrs. Laurance S.) It is with the deepest sense of loss that The Boards of Overseers and Managers of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center mourn the death of the beloved Mary French Rockefeller, wife of our honorary chairman & benefactor, Laurance S. Rockefeller and the mother of our colleague Dr. Lucy R. Waletzky. She was a leader in our society, a dear friend, mentor and model of commitment and dedication to the goals of our Center. Above all else, she was a gentle spirit whose belief in tending to the intangible needs of the human heart bettered our lives and the lives of our patients. Mrs. Rockefeller's commitment to Memorial Sloan-Kettering over the last 30 years has left a legacy that is everywhere visible at our Center for she focused on the aesthetic and spiritual environment for patients and staff. Mrs. Rockefeller said it best herself: ''For the patients, we hope that having something beautiful to look at brings them peace or strength or respite. That's our main concern.'' She brought us all that and much, much more. On behalf of The Boards, our staff and patients, we extend our condolences to the entire Rockefeller family. We are grateful to have been able to share in her unique qualities. Benno C. Schmidt, Honorary Co-Chairman James D. Robinson III, Chairman, Board of Overseers Douglas A. Warner III, Chairman, Board of Managers H. Virgil Sherrill, Vice-Chairman Richard L. Gelb, Vice-Chairman Paul A. Marks, M.D., President Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        ROCKEFELLER - Mary. The Board, Trustees and staff of The YWCA of the City of New York extend their deepest sympathy and condolences to Laurance Rockefeller and his family upon the death of his wife, Mary French Rockefeller. Mary was a pastboard member of the New York City YWCA and continued her service to the New York City YWCA as a member of the Honorary Board and as co-chair of its World Mutual Service Committee. She believed deeply in the programs and mission of The YWCA and worked long and hard on behalf of the Association. She gave generously of herself in every respect, and her presence and gentle demeanor touched YWCA staff and leadership alike. We will miss her. Jean Way Schoonover, Pres. Vivian Manning Fox, Exec. Dir.
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French (Mrs. Laurance S.) The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourns the passing of Mary French Rockefeller, whom we had the privilege of honoring earlier this week. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Mrs. Rockefeller, with her discerning eye and quiet sense of purpose, taught us how to feed the human spirit through the medium of art. She was the mainstay of our Art Program for 30 years and, at the time of her death, a member of The Society's Advisory Council. We shall miss Mary Rockefeller and her fine example of grace and commitment. Mrs. M. Anthony May, President, The Society of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The Trustees and staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the passing of Mary French Rockefeller, long time friend of the Society, its zoos and aquarium, and beloved wife of the Society's Honorary Trustee and past Chairman, Laurance S. Rockefeller. Her gentleness, compassion and kindness will long be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. She will be missed by all. David T. Schiff, Chairman Howard Phipps, Jr., Chairman Emeritus William Conway, President
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. ''The world is charged with the grandeur of God...'' In no single individual was this more evident than in the life and person of Mary French Rockefeller. The trustees, staff, and students of The HealthCare Chaplaincy, whom she loved and cherished as a family, join in heartfelt expressions of prayerful condolence to her beloved husband, Laurance, and to their children, grandchildren, and greatgrandchildren. To God's eternal embrace we commend her magnanimous, loving, and caring spirit. William G. Spears, Chairman The Rev. Dr. Walter J. Smith, S.J., President & CEO
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. Vassar College mourns the death of its alumna Mary French Rockefeller, Class of 1931, and celebrates her exemplory life of talented and dedicated service to others. The College extends its deepest sympathies to her husband, Laurance, and the entire family. Frances D. Fergusson, President Vassar College
      