
        SAMERS-Bernard N. The Officers, Board and Staff of the Weizmann Institute of Science and its American Committee are immensely grieved by the death of a luminous figure in all of our lives. As Executive Vice President from 1986 to 1995 and later as Executive Vice President Emeritus, he inspired ACWIS to record-setting achievements in support of the Institute. His fervor was contagious, his commitment total. With stubborn determination, he never allowed serious illness to slacken his pace. Eloquent and knowledgeable in support of basic scientific research as a vehicle of progress for the benefit of humankind, immensely proud of the role of Weizmann scientists in stimulating the economic strength of Israel, he set a personal example of total devotion, admired throughout the United States and the entire worldwide Wiezmann Family. He was an exceptionally effective bridge builder to the Institute community in Rehovot, sharing insights and wisdom with its leaders and scientists. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife of 38 years, Edith, to his daughter Audrey, sons Michael and William and the entire family. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Bernard and Edith Samers Scholarship Fund in Cancer Research at the Weizmann Institute of Science. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Haim Harari, President S. Donald Sussman, Chairman American Committee Robert G. Begam, President Fran Ginsburg, Exec. Director
        SAMERS-Bernard. The Board and leadership of UJA-Federation of New York are saddened by the passing of Bernard Samers, father of Audrey Samers. Ms. Samers is a member of our Board of Directors, a steering committee member for our Young Lawyers Division, and co-chair of our Young Leadership Division. To Mr. Samers' wife, Edith, sons Bill and Michael, to Audrey, and to the entire family, we express our sincere sympathy. Larry A. Silverstein, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Jeremy Diamond, Co-Chair, Young Leadership Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        SAMERS-Bernard. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Greater NY Chapter of the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America records with sorrow the death of Bernard Samers, beloved husband of our esteemed Executive Director, Edith. We extend condolences to Edith and their children: Audrey, Michael and William. May the knowledge of the support of so many friends help to sustain the family at this time. Daniel Crown, Chairman of the Board Judy Saphir, Chapter President Joan Telley, Dir. of Development Ed S. Munoz, Manager Special Events and Operations
        SAMERS-Bernard N. With deep feelings of love and respect, members of the national and regional staff of the American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourn the death of an unforgettable guide and leader. A man of wit and wisdom, he generously shared his experience in fundraising and his special fascination with science. He inspired immense pride in our partnership with the Institute. All of us will miss our friend Bernie. Our sincere condolences go to his wife Edith, daughter Audrey, sons Michael and William and the entire family.
        SAMERS-Bernard. We loved you very much and will miss you dearly. Edith, Audrey, Michael and Bill Samers. Services will be held today, 11:30AM at Temple Beth El, Stamford, CT. Shiva will be observed at the Samers home through Sunday. Donations can be made to the American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science, 51 Madison Ave., NY, NY 10010
        SAMERS-Bernard. Bernie, My Friend. We have shared so much together. We so appreciated your leadership, your loyalty and the tremendous dedication to a cause we both believed in. Your terrible suffering did not stop you from carrying on your responsibilities. We will sorely miss you. Judith and Norman Cohen
      