
        MERESMAN-Helen Chafets. On April 25, 1997. Beloved wife of Harry Meresman for 60 years; devoted and cherished mother of Helaine Meresman Barnett and Victor Barnett and Janis Meresman Goldman and Michael Goldman; adored grandmother of Craig and Jennifer Barnett, Roger Barnett, Melissa Goldman, and Lori Goldman; loving sister of Henrietta and Alan Leiner, Selma and Bill Rafsky, and Emanuel Chafets; and loving aunt and great aunt to many nieces and nephews. A woman known for her remarkable beauty, grace, and intellect, she also had a special gift of language that turned conversations into poetry. Her devotion, guidance, and unconditional love helped to define every member of her family and everyone she touched. She remains uniquely loved and irreplaceable. Funeral services April 27, 1997, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, at 1:15 P.M.
        MERESMAN-Helen. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation send our deepest condolences to the Meresman family on the passing of their beloved Helen-wife of Harry Meresman, one of our founding Directors; mother of Helaine Barnett, a current Director; and mother-in-law to Victor Barnett, a Director Emeritus. We also express our shared sadness to her daughter, Janis Goldman of Washington, D.C. and all the grandchildren. We remember Helen's elegance and charm, her brilliance as a storyteller and poet, and her generous spirit as a loving wife, mother and grandmother. We will miss her. Robert S. Rifkind, Chairman Eli N. Evans, President
        MERESMAN-Helen. We mourn with great sadness the loss of Helen, beloved wife, mother, grandmother, sister and friend. Her vitality and warmth, and expressive qualities, endeared her to all. She will remain ever alive in the memories of those she loved and who loved her. Our deeepest sympathy and love to all her beloved family. Adele Suslak Brian and Annette Suslak Neil Suslak Valerie Suslak Pamela and Joe Ferraioli
        MERESMAN-Helen. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the mother of its esteemed member, Mrs. Helaine Barnett, wife of its Honorary President, Mr. Victor Barnett, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres. David Yagoda, Chairman William Schwartz, Pres.
        MERESMAN-Helen. Cherished friend to and role model for four generations of Morrises who will miss her greatly. Jeff, Dona, Donny, Carole Lee
      