
        COOPER-Burton S. On April 15, 1997. Beloved husband of Dorothy, loving father of Douglas and Terry Cooper & Lisa and Stanley Brettschneider, dear brother of Jerome & Iylene Cooper, adoring grandfather of Andrew, Joshua, Allison and Abigail. Service today 12:30 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions may be made to the Multiple Sclerosis Society of Westchester, 11 Skyline Drive, Hawthorne, New York 10532.
        COOPER-Burton S. The management and employees of Triboro Coach Corp. wish to express their deep regret and sorrow at the passing of Burton S. Cooper who served as Chairman of the Board and Vice President for many years. His leadership qualities and respect for his fellow man will be remembered by all who served with him. We extend our sympathy and prayers to his wife Dorothy and all of his family. Stephen J. Eagar, President
        COOPER-Burton S. In memory of our beloved President, Burton S. Cooper. His unselfish dedication to service the needs of people will remain an everlasting testimonial to his memory. The respect and admiration of everyone associated with him will be remembered forever. All our employees extend their sincerest condolences to the family. May his memory live forever. Command Bus Company, Inc.
        COOPER-Burton S. The Board of Directors and Members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Burton S. Cooper, whose many years of friendship and devotion to the club will always be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Michael Feidelson, Pres. Edward J. Landau, Secy.
        COOPER-Burton. Counselor, advisor, conscience and childhood friend. Our deepest sympathies to Dorothy, Lisa and Stan, Doug and Terry, Ilene and Jerry and their families. An irreplceable loss to all who had the privilege of knowing Burt. We will think of you and miss you always. Rest in peace dear friend. Claudia and Emil Buckner
        COOPER-Burton S. It is with deep sorrow that we record the loss of Burton Cooper. His firm hand, clear mind and infinite wisdom was a source of strength. His hard work, strong will, determination and skillful leadership cannot be measured. He will be missed forever. The Employees of Jamaica Buses Inc.
        COOPER-Burton S. The Management and Employees of Green Bus Lines, Inc. wish to express their deep regret and sorrow at the passing of Burton S. Copper who served as the leader of this company for many years. His knowledge, fairness and respect for all will be missed. We extend our sympathies to his family.
        COOPER-Burton. Dear friend, counselor and confidant, truly a one-of-a-kind guy. His wisdom and strength set an example for all who knew him. Rest in peace, good friend. We miss you so much already. Norma and Burton Bernard
        COOPER-Burton S. With deep respect, Mr. and Mrs. Stephen Eagar feel the loss of a lifetime friend and extend our prayers to his wife Dorothy and their family.
        COOPER-Burton S. Dear and cherished friend. We shall miss you always. Marci and Jules
      