
        SEPTEE-Moe. On April 1, 1997. Of Philadelphia, PA. and Deal, N.J. Husband of Ruth Attermann. Father of Yael Septee Kane, Elisa Septee Lunzer, Rena Septee Goldstein. Brother of Esther Glyn and Shirley Levitan. Also survived by five loving grandchildren. Relatives and friends are invited to services on Wednesday 10 A.M., Joseph Levine & Son, North Broad Street, above 71st Avenue, Philadelphia. Interment Beth El Cemetery, Paramus, New Jersey. The family will return to the late residence in Philadelphia and respectfully requests that contributions in his memory be made to the Moe Septee Memorial Scholarship Fund, C/O Kathy Mellon at the American Israel Cultural Foundation, 317 Madison Avenue, Suite 1605, New York, New York 10017.
        SEPTEE-Moe. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, its Sisterhood and Couples Club mourn the passing of the beloved father of their devoted member, Elisa Lunzer and extends heartfelt condolences to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Fred Distenfeld, President
        SMIALY-Szloma. Holocaust survivor. Beloved husband of Hena. Cherished father of Sylvia (Tzipy) and David Posner. Adoring Zayde of Rachel and Raphael. Loving uncle. Services will be held on Thursday, April 3, at 1 PM, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65 St. Contributions may be made: the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, 100 Raoul Wallenberg Place, SW, Washington D.C. 20024-2150 or Friends of the Israel Defense Forces, 21 West 38 St., 5th floor, NY, NY 10018.
        SMIALY-Szloma. It is with deep and saddened hearts that the Rabbis, Cantor, Officers, Trustees, Administrators and Members of Congregation Emanu-El note the passing of Szloma Smialy, the beloved husband of Hena and never to be forgotten father of Sylvia, darling wife of our cherished and revered teacher, Rabbi David M. Posner. These sentiments of care & concern embrace Mr. Smialy's cherished grandchildren Rachel and Raphael. A man of grace and quiet dignity, he survived the horrors of the Holocaust years, came to America with his wonderful wife, and together they made it possible for those whom they loved most to make significant contributions to Jewish life and continuity. His memory will be a blessing forever. Rabbi Ronald B. Sobel Rabbi Richard S. Chapin Rabbi Amy B. Ehrlich Cantor Howard Nevison Dr. Mark W. Weisstuch David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
      