
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The National Board of the YWCA of the U.S.A. is deeply saddened by the loss of Mary French Rockefeller, National Board member for over twenty years, a member of the Board of Trustees and the World Service Council. She will be remembered for her warmth, commitment and dedication to the improvement of the quality of life of the women, girls and their families. As a pillar of the YWCA movement, both nationally and globally, she leaves behind a legacy of visionary leadership. The YWCA of the U.S.A., National Board and staff extend their heartfelt condolences to her husband and family. We will miss her. Alexine C. Jackson, National President Prema Mathai-Davis, National Executive Director
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend Mary French Rockefeller. She touched us all with her gentle kindness and gracious presence. Our sincere sympathy is extended to our Life Governor Laurance S. Rockefeller and to the family. John F. McGillicuddy Chairman, Board of Governors The New York Hospital David B. Skinner, M.D. President and CEO Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Cornell University Medical College Antonio M. Gotto, Jr., M.D. Dean
        ROCKEFELLER - Mary. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art notes with great sadness the passing of Mary Rockefeller, former Trustee and long-time supporter of the Whitney Museum and its education programs. Her dedication to this institution and her unselfish wish to help others will be missed by all. Flora M. Biddle, Hon. Chairman Leonard A. Lauder, Chairman Gilbert C. Maurer, President David A. Ross, Director
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The Cardiovascular Institute of The Mount Sinai Medical Center extends profound sympathy to our dear friend, longtime supporter and member of our Advisory Board, Laurence S. Rockefeller, on the passing of his beloved wife, Mary French Rockefeller. We offer our sincerest condolences to the entire Rockefeller family. Valentin Fuster, M.D., Ph.D. Director
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The Trustees and Staff of the Natural Resources Defense Council wish to extend condolences on the passing of Mary French Rockefeller to her beloved husband, Lawrence;, to our friend, colleague and Trustee, her son, Larry, and all her children and grandchildren. We will all miss her warmth and graciousness.
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The trustees and staff of the United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia are saddened by the passing of Mary French Rockefeller, a loving and caring member of its board since 1989. We express our condolences to the Rockefeller family.
      