
        HAUSMAN-Robert J. Former Chairman of Loews Hotels, Chairman of the Princess Grace Foundation-USA, Director of the 92nd Street ''Y,'' and Director of the Foundation for Westchester Community College died on April 15, 1997 in Greenwich, CT. He is survived by his wife, Gloria; his three daughters, Judith Hausman of Bedford, NY, Dr. Alice HausmanBerlin of Merion, PA, and Laura H. Kadane of Lynnfield, MA; his sister, Nancy Blumenthal of Armonk, NY; and his four grandchildren. A funeral service will take place on Friday, April 18, 1997 at 10:30AM at the Greenwich Reform Synagogue, 257 Stanwich Road, Greenwich, CT. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Princess Grace Foundation-USA at 150 East 58th Street, NYC 10155 or the 92nd Street ''Y'' at 1395 Lexington Avenue, New York City 10128.
        HAUSMAN-Robert J. The 92nd Street YM-YWHA Board of Directors and Staff deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed, long time director, Robert Hausman. As a director for more than 25 years, Bob competently guided the Y toward the 21st century through modernization and automation, and offered his forward-thinking business expertise to help streamline administrative functions and operations. His commitment to the institution was shown through his dilligent service as chairman of the Finance Committee and the recently created New Building and Expansion Committee, the Y's first major expansion project in thirty years. Additionally, Bob was an advisor to the Investment, House & Building and numerous other committees. Our profound sympathy to his wife Gloria, daughters Judith, Alice and Lauren, sister Nancy and his four grandchildren. Joseph Leff, President Daniel Kaplan, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        HAUSMAN-Robert J. The staff of Loews Hotels and Loews Corporation deeply mourn the passing of Robert J. Hausman, who served our hotel division for thirty years until his retirement in 1996. He contributed significantly to the growth and success of Loews Hotels, while still finding time to serve a number of charitable organizations. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Gloria and his entire family.
        HAUSMAN-Robert J. The Board of Trustees and the entire Princess Grace Foundation-USA deeply mourn the passing of Robert J. Hausman, our Chairman, founder, and mentor. The world has lost a committed philanthropist, the arts have lost a devoted patron, and the Foundation has lost a visionary leader and friend. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family.
        HAUSMAN-Robert J. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Robert J. Hausman, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Roy R. Raizen, President
      