
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The Trustees and staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the passing of Mary French Rockefeller, long time friend of the Society, its zoos and aquarium, and beloved wife of the Society's Honorary Trustee and past Chairman, Laurance S. Rockefeller. Her gentleness, compassion and kindness will long be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. She will be missed by all. David T. Schiff, Chairman Howard Phipps, Jr., Chairman Emeritus William Conway, President
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. ''The world is charged with the grandeur of God...'' In no single individual was this more evident than in the life and person of Mary French Rockefeller. The trustees, staff, and students of The HealthCare Chaplaincy, whom she loved and cherished as a family, join in heartfelt expressions of prayerful condolence to her beloved husband, Laurance, and to their children, grandchildren, and greatgrandchildren. To God's eternal embrace we commend her magnanimous, loving, and caring spirit. William G. Spears, Chairman The Rev. Dr. Walter J. Smith, S.J., President & CEO
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The Board of Trustees and the staff of the Central Park Conservancy mourn the loss of Mary F. Rockefeller. Her devotion to Central Park and to preserving its historic treasures was a great and generous gift to all New Yorkers. Her steadfast support over the years of the Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy was deeply appreciated. We offer our deepest sympathy to our life Trustee, Laurance S. Rockefeller and his family. Ira M. Millstein, Chairman Karen H. Putnam, President
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The Board and staff of the New York Community Trust note with sadness the death of Mary French Rockefeller, who served on our Board for nearly 25 years. She graced us with her kindness and gentle support. Our condolences to the family. William M. Evarts, Jr., Chairman Lorie A. Slutsky, President
        ROCKEFELLER-Mary French. The Trustees and Staff of Historic Hudson Valley note with sadness the loss of our first lady and wife of Laurance S. Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus, and express our sympathy to the entire family. John S. Dyson, Chairman Max C. Chapman, Jr., Vice Chair John H. Dobkin, President
      