
        BAKER-Sheila Dineen. OPEIU Local 153, AFL-CIO, mourns the loss of Sheila Dineen Baker, 78, who died Friday, March 28, at her home in Asbury Park, NJ. Sheila was our leader and friend. She was the first female President of Local 153-a local union of 20,000 members-in its 50-year history. Long before becoming president, she led the employees in organizing at Fordham University, even before they were covered by the NLRA. For years, she remained their chief representative in bargaining and union representation. In addition, she was instrumental in organizing other university members, helping to build what is now the Local's college and university division with 4,000 members throughout the tri-state area. Her leadership abilities led her to serve on the union's executive board from 1968. She also served as the Local's recording secretary and vice president, before she became president in 1983. She retired from the presidency in 1988, although she remained very active in the Local 153 Retirees' Association and served as trustee of the Lavina Michl Wright Scholarship for members' children. Throughout her years in the labor movement she received numerous awards, including the YWCA's Woman of Achievement Award in 1983 and an award from the AFL-CIO's Union Label and Service Trades Department. Sheila also served her own community as a member of the Asbury Park Woman's Club, a communicant of St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church and a member of its Cartonian Club and choir. Sheila was born in New York City, the youngest of nine children. She was married for more than 50 years to Jack Baker who died in 1993. She is survived by her two sons Thomas of Paris and John of New York, and three grandchildren. To them we send our sincerest condolences for their loss. It is a loss we share for an incomparable woman of both strength and gentleness, integrity, selflessness and love for humanity. We deeply mourn her passing. For more information, Buckely's Funeral Home in Asbury Park, New Jersey (908) 775-2455. Her funeral mass will occur at 10 AM, Tuesday, April 1, at St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church in Deal, NJ. Michael Goodwin, Business Manager Richard Lanigan, SecretaryTreasurer Local 153, Office and Professional Employees International Union, AFL-CIO
        BAKER-Sheila Dineen. We deeply mourn the passing of our past president, vice-president, recording secretary, executive board member, sister and fellow trade unionist Sheila Dineen Baker. She was a constant inspiration to all of us to better serve our members, their families and children. She generously gave of herself, to all of us during her nearly 30 years in the labor movement. We all owe her a debt of gratitude that we can only repay by continuing her legacy of bettering the lives of working men and women. We offer our sympathies to her family: sons Thomas and John and three grandchildren. We join you in grief, but celebrate Sheila's long and immensely fruitful life. Alton Merchant, President, and OPEIU Local 153 Executive Board
        BAKER-Sheila Dineen. We offer our heartful sympathies and prayers to the family of Shelia Dineen Baker and to our Local 153 in New York City. Sister Baker served as a leader and guiding light for that local union and its members for many years. She also served this International Union and its 140,000 members on organizing, political campaigns and as a convention delegate. Her ideas, energy and strength contributed to progress in the lives of our members and their families. We celebrate her life and contributions as we also mourn her loss. Michael Goodwin, President, and Gilles Beauregard, Secretary-Treasurer Office and Professional Employees International Union AFL-CIO, CLC
      