
        WALDMAN-Lester J. On April 8, 1997. Adored husband of Blanche. Loving father of Michael and daughter-in-law Rebecca. Devoted uncle of Stuart and Tomi Berney. Friends may call Thurs. evening, 7-9PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Services Friday, April 11, 10AM, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave. at 65th St.
        WALDMAN-Lester J. With saddened hearts the Rabbis, Officers, Trusties, and Members of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York record the passing of Dr. Lester J. Waldman who brought joy to our hearts and meaning to our lives. For more than 60 years he was an integral part of the life of our Congregation, culminating in his service as a Member of our Board of Trustees. A passion for justice was the hallmark of his life, and in its pursuit he never faltered. His love for the Jewish people and their welfare mirrored the prophetic voice of ancient Israel. He bequeaths to all whose lives he touched a legacy of grandeur. With his beloved Blanche, Michael and Rebecca, we share the sorrow of his death and the gratitude for his life. May his memory be a blessing forever. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        WALDMAN-Lester. On April 8, 1997. The Board of Directors and the staff of the New York Society for the Deaf record with sorrow the passing of Lester Waldman. As a former Executive Director and Counsel to the Board, he was a vital member of our organization for over forty five years, offering valuable guidance in serving the Deaf Community with honor, integrity and leadership. We extend to his wife, Blanche, his son Michael who is also a Board Member of The New York Society for the Deaf, his daughter-in-law, Rebecca our deepest sympathy. Friends may call Thursday 7-9pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Services Friday April 11, 10am at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. Stephen Adler, Chairman Paul Kohnstamm, President Pearl Johnson, Exec Director
        WALDMAN-Lester J. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of a treasured colleague, friend and sage counselor, Lester J. Waldman. Lester served ADL for 25 years as the first director of the New York Regional Office in 1949, and director of Organization and Planning until his retirement in 1973. He was ADL's archivist, historian and an Honorary Life Member of the National Commission. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, our colleague, Blanche, his son Michael, and the entire family. He will be sorely missed. David H. Strassler National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        WALDMAN-Lester J. The Men's Club of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York deeply mourns the loss of its former President and long time member, Lester J. Waldman. His guidance, wisdom and keen insight will be profoundly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family Richard E. Friedman, President Steven J. Chait, Secretary
        WALDMAN-Lester J. The Board and staff of the Neighborhood Coalition for Shelter mourn the passing of long-time Board member Lester Waldman. We will miss your wisdom, your wry humor and your friendship.
      