
        HERZOG - Chaim. Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the passing of Chaim Herzog, the sixth President of Israel. His memory will be forever cherished by all fellow Zionists for his courageous stand as Israel's ambassador to the UN against the reprehensible 1975 UN resolution equating Zionism with racism. A devoted friend of Hadassah, he had been designated to receive this organization's treasured Henrietta Szold Award this summer at the Hadassah's National Convention. In his varied roles as head of Israeli military intelligence, Israel's ambassador to the UN, Knesset member and then, for 10 years, Israel's president, he brought great honor to the Jewish state and to the Jewish people. Our deepest condolences to his wife Aura and his entire family. May his memory be for a blessing and may the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marlene E. Post National President Beth Wohlgelernter National Executive Director
        HERZOG-Chaim. American ORT and women's American ORT join with the world wide Jewish community in mourning the loss of Chaim Herzog, former President of the State of Israel and a towering figure in modern Jewish history. A former President of the World ORT Union, he was a visionary statesman and Zionist leader whose personal history and achievements paralleled the founding and development of the State of Israel. We extend heartfelt condolences to Mrs. Herzog and the entire Herzog family. Ruth S. Taffel National President Women's American ORT Pepi Dunay First Vice President Rosina K. Abramson National Executive Director/CEO Paul Borman President, American ORT Murray Koppelman, Chairman of the Board Gary Perl Acting Executive Vice President
        HERZOG-Chaim. The Orthodox Union joins in mourning the passing of the sixth President of the State of Israel. Statesman, warrior and diplomat, Chaim Herzog was first and foremost the able son of Rebbitzen Sara and Rabbi Yitzchok HaLevi Herzog, z''l, the first Chief Rabbi of Medinat Yisrael. His passion and wisdom will be sorely missed as will be his historic role in defending the honor of Am Yisrael, the glory of Torat Yisrael, and of the office his father helped shape. May the Almighty comfort his family and the bereaved people of Zion and Jerusalem. Mandell I. Ganchrow, M.D., President Marcel Weber, Chairman, Board of Directors Dr. Marcos Katz, Chairman, Board of Governors Rabbi Raphael B. Butler, Executive Vice President
        HERZOG - President Chaim. Statesman and scholar, soldier and strategist, historian and humanist, leader and lawyer, distinguished in culture and commerce, he was an eloquent spokesman for Israel and the Jewish People and a thoughtful interpreter of the Jewish Heritage in an enlightened and tolerant spirit. Our Friend and Advisor for almost three decades, he leaves behind a distinguished and adoring wife and family, and countless admirers. Jonathan D. Levine The Directors of Media Judaica
        HERZOG-Chaim. We mourn the passing of the past President of Israel, a liberator of Bergen Belsen, a great friend of the survivors, who maintained his friendship with us and during all the years since the liberation. We shall always remember this noble leader and prince of the Jewish People. Our sincere condolences to Ora and the entire Herzog family. World Federation of Bergen Belsen Survivors Hadassah Rosensaft Norbert Wollheim Lilly and Sam Block
        HERZOG-Chaim. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of a former President of Israel, a great leader of the Jewish State and the Jewish Nation. To his wife and children and the people of Israel, we extend our condolences. We pray they will know no further sorrow and will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Leon Levy, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        HERZOG-Chaim. The American Zionist Movement joins with the people of Israel in mourning the death of Chaim Herzog, sixth President of Israel. Soldier, author and diplomat Chaim Herzog staunchly and eloquently served and defended the Jewish people and the Zionist ideal. He will long be remembered. May his memory be blessed. Melvin Salberg, Pres Karen J. Rubinstein, Exec Dir
      