
        LYNCH-Vincent. A leader in political and humanitarian work for NYC School Employees Local 372. Died April 8, at age 66. Mr. Lynch was born into a prominent political family in Jamaica, W.I., on Christmas Day, 1930. His father Leopold was a leader in the Labor Party, a member of Parliament for 36 years and Minister of local government. Vincent was an outstanding student at Oliver Park School and Titchfield High in Port Antonio. He started as a School Aide for the NYC Board of Ed. in 1974 and worked at IS 195 in Harlem for two decades. In addition to his job at the school store, he served as an advisor and ''father figure'' for thousands of students. His co-workers elected him Shop Steward, and his dedicated union work led to key assignments in the 23,000-member Local 372, which is part of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO. Mr. Lynch chaired the Political Action Committee of the Local which operates computerized telephone and puts hundreds of volunteers into the field in election campaigns and is well known as a powerhouse in city politics. He served as 2nd Vice President of Local 372 for many years, and represented the Union on disaster relief missions and at conferences in Africa, Israel and throughout the Caribbean region and the U.S. Beyond his official duties, he was a close friend and advisor to Local President Charles Hughes. ''He gave me and the entire Union the benefit of his insight and judgement without fear or favor,'' said Hughes ''more than an officer, more than a friend, Vincent was like a brother to me. The Union will never be able to replace his strength of character, his warmth and wit and his loving sparkling smile.'' As an immigrant himself, Lynch was particularly proud that he was named to chair DC 37's Citizenship Committee which set up the Union's Citizenship Program with the unanimous backing of the DC 37 Executive Board. In 1996, its first year, the program helped more than 1000 union members exchange their green cards for full citizenship in the U.S.A. Mr. Lynch is survived by his wife Audrey and children Sadia, Dominic, Yvonne and Amy. Interment will be in Jamaica, W.I. A memorial service will be held Monday, April 14, at 6:00 PM at The Cathedral Church of St. John The Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Ave., at 112 St. in NYC. Charles Hughes, President Local 372
      