
        POLIKOFF-Benet, Jr., April 22, 1997. Beloved husband of Florence Davis Polikoff. Adored father of Elisabeth Polikoff Doyle and her husband Peter, Benet Steven Polikoff and his wife Cynthia, Louise Polikoff Belsky and her husband Paul, Andrew Charles Frank and his wife Atsuko, and Thomas Leon Frank. Cherished grandfather of Kylee, Chloe, Natasha, Sarah and Briggs. Beloved brother of Peggy Polikoff Bradt and her husband Bud, and treasured uncle of George and Richard Bradt. Was counsel to the law firm of Rosenman & Colin. He was a long time member of the Board of Trustees of the Lexington School for the Deaf and former chair of the Real Property Committee of the Bar Association of the City of New York. He was an active member of the American College of Real Estate Lawyers and a trustee of the Victor D'Amico Institute of Art. Family receiving at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street between 7-9PM on Wednesday, April 23. Service at Campbell's at 10 AM, on Thursday, April 24. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to a charity of your choice.
        POLIKOFF-Benet, Jr. A great lawyer and a great person who was a friend, teacher and colleague to many; you will always be with us. Your Marshall Bratter Friends
        POLIKOFF-Benet Jr. With sadness the Directors, shareholders and staff of Ten Eighty Apt Corporation mourn the passing of Bebet Polikoff, Jr, our esteemed past Vice President, friend & neighbor. We are thankful for his years of service & leadership. His devotion will be remembered with gratitude, appreciation and affection. To all of the bereaved family we offer heartfelt sympathy. Board of Directors, Ten Eight Apartment Corporation
        POLIKOFF-Benet, Jr. It is with our deepest sorrow and regret that the Firm of Rosenman & Colin LLP mourns the passing of our friend and esteemed colleague, Benet Polikoff, Jr. He will always be remembered as a good friend, a man of great integrity, a wise counselor and a ''lawyer's lawyer.'' We extend our sincerest sympathies to his wife, Florence, his children and grandchildren. Rosenman & Colin LLP
        POLIKOFF - Benet, Jr. The Trustees of the Victor D'amico Institute of Art, The Art Barge, mourn the loss of fellow trustee, Benet Polikoff Jr. His dedication, counsel and humor will be greatly missed. Our condolences to Flippy and family. C. Kohan, President
      