
        SHULMAN-Rebecca. On March 30, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Herman. Loving mother of Mark and the late Paul. Cherished grandmother of David, Judy, Jonathan, Rebecca, Diane, Alice, David and the late Herman. Great grandmother of Mor, Roni, Ben, Gal, Assaf, Yaniv, Oded, Shir, Robyn, Andrew, Caroline, Marina, Lauren, Scott, Alex and Deborah. Services on Tuesday, 1:30 P.M., ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        SHULMAN-Rebecca. Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the passing of Rebecca Shulman, lifelong Zionist activist and the National President of Hadassah from 1953-1956. Deeply committed throughout her long life to building the State of Israel, Rebecca began her Zionist activities in 1929, as a delegate to the World Zionist Congress. As chairman of the Hadassah National Convention in 1945, she called for the mobilization of the then-150,000 members to become ''soldiers'' in the war for Jewish liberation and nationhood. A trained nurse and professional social worker, in 1946 she was sent to pre-state Palestine to study Hadassah's medical services and its ability to absorb thousands of refugees from Europe. She was in Jerusalem during the War of Liberation and was present when the State of Israel was proclaimed. Her late son, Paul, helped establish Israel's navy and was its first admiral. Rebecca was able to transmit her firsthand knowledge of the most urgent needs of the fledgling country to her Hadassah colleagues all over America, when she became National President. After her presidency she continued to devote her talents and skills to the building of the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center. In 1954, to commemorate her husband Herman, also an ardent Zionist, she presented 12 paintings to the Israel Museum in Jerusalem, establishing an American wing. Rebecca's passion for Israel and the Jewish people have inspired generations of Hadassah leaders and members. She will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences to her children and grandchildren. May her memory be for a blessing and may the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marlene E. Post National President Beth Wohlgelernter National Executive Director
      