
        WALTON-Jean. Loving, wonderful wife of Samuel, cherished and much loved mother of Carolyn and Stanley Fried, Susan and Steven Tomback, Diane and Stuart Walton, Janice and Robert Genser. Proud, devoted grandmother of Robin and Andrew Fried, Jessica, David and Alyssa Tomback, Joshua Walton, and Lori and Lee Genser. Dear sister of Seymour Rosen, Sylvia Geffen and the late Hy Rosen and Sollie Rosen. Services Tuesday, April 8, at 12:15 P.M., Riverside Nassau North Chapels, Great Neck.
        WALTON-Jean. Our Members and entire personnel express their profound sympathy to Sam on the loss of his beloved wife, to Caroline, Susan, Stuart and Janice and their respective spouses on the loss of an unusually caring mother, and to all the grandchildren on the loss of a special, spirited, family-oriented grandmother. She was a person of extraordinary courage and strength of character. She will surely be an enduring influence for good for all her loved ones. Herbert Rubin for Herzfeld & Rubin, PC
        WALTON-Jean. To our dear, wonderful mother. You were a truly remarkable person. You personified unconditional love, never ending devotion, and boundless optimism. You instilled in all of us your love of family and tradition. Everyone who knew you loved you and repspected you. The values and love of life that we learned from you will be with us forever. Carolyn and Stanley Susan and Steve Diane and Stuart Janice and Robert
        WALTON-Jean. Dearest Bubba. Our lives will never be the same without you. You made everyday special for each of us. You set wonderful examples for us to follow. Your legacy of loving kindness and caring will be with us always. We will love you forever. Your loving grandchhildren, Robin and Andrew Fried Jessica, David, and Alyssa Tomback Joshua Walton Lori and Lee Genser
        WALTON-Jean. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Eileen Putterman, President
        WALTON-Jean. Dear, dear treasured friend and confidante. Since kindergarten, her happy, warm, generous and all embracing good and caring nature enriched my life. Always remembered. Irma
      