
        WIENER-Gabe. Class of '84 at The Day School. Gabe exemplified all that we hold important. He was raised to pursue excellence in all things, by parents who nurtured his love of ideas, and delighted in his enthusiasm for the intellect. His warm heartedness, the encouragement and support he gave to others and his creative spirit will always be cherished by us. The Wiener family and their love and respect for each other have served as a model to all of us. You have good reason to be proud, Mike and Zena, and our hearts ache with you and Jenny. Jack Dexter, Head of School Alexandra Peters, President, Board of Trustees
        WIENER-Gabe. New York City Opera is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of the son and brother of our very good friends, Mike, Zena and Jenny Wiener. We extend our friendship and profound sympathy to the entire family on their tragic loss. May the knowledge of the support of their many friends help to sustain them at this time. Irwin Schneiderman Co Chairman Paul Kellogg General Director Sherwin M. Goldman Executive Producer
        WIENER-Gabe. Beloved alumnus of the class of 1984, The Day School. The Day School community extends our deepest sympathy to our friends and extended family, Michael, Zena and Jenny. His exemplary love and quest for knowledge, music and life will be an inspiration for all that passed through The Day School halls for generations to come. We will miss our cherished student, alumnus friend.
        WIENER-Gabe. The members of the Board of Directors and residents of 1021 Park Avenue express their heartfelt condolences to their neighbors, Zena and Michael Wiener, and their daughter, Jennifer, on the tragic loss of their son and brother, Gabe. He will be missed by us all.
        WIENER-Gabe. The Members of I Cantori di New York and Mark Shapiro, Conductor, mourn the sudden loss of Gabe Wiener, colleague and friend, artist and entrepreneur. You changed our lives. We extend sincere condolences to his family and many friends.
      