
        WIENER-Gabe. On April 9, 1997. Beloved son of Michael and Zena Wiener, cherished brother of Jenny, suddenly taken away at the tender age of 27. His wonderful, indomitable spirit and gift for life made this world a better place. His passions have deeply touched our lives and his talent and vision will always surround us. He will serve as an inspiration for all who knew and loved him. Gabe will always be with us. Funeral services will be held at Central Synagogue, Lexington Avenue and 55th Street, on Friday, April 11th at 10 A.M.
        WIENER-Gabe. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center extend our deepest condolences to our generous and committed supporters, Michael and Zena Wiener, who, among their many interests at Mount Sinai, established the Zena and Michael Wiener Professorship in Cancer, on the tragic and premature death of their beloved son, Gabe, at the age of 27. We extend our most profound sympathy to these cherished friends and members of the Mount Sinai family, and to their daughter, Jennifer, on their tragic loss. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Nathan G. Kase, M.D., Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Wendy Z. Goldstein, Director
        WIENER-Gabriel Mark. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of Gabriel Mark Wiener, beloved son of Michael and Zena Wiener and brother of Jenny. Gabe blessed us with his love of music and brought us to a knowledge of liturgial song in a sacred and blessed fashion. We will miss him, but we will continue to carry him with us. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President
        WIENER-Gabe. The Cardiovascular Institute of The Mount Sinai Medical Center extends profound sympathy to our cherished friends, Michael and Zena Wiener on the sudden death of their beloved son, Gabe, at the age of 27. We offer our deepest condolences to them and to their daughter, Jennifer, on their devastating loss. Valentin Fuster, M.D., Ph.D. Director
        WIENER-Gabe. Our darling, darling Gabe. We will always hear your sweet voice and never forget how bravely you fought all your battles. You are a credit to us all. We will always love and remember you. Aunt Bobby and Uncle Sidney
      