
        KRAVIS RUGER-Helene Diane, New York, April 2, 1997. Devoted wife of the late J. Thompson Ruger. Beloved mother of Robert S. and Kimberly R. and the late Harrison S. Kravis. Loving sister of Mrs. Sharon Beckerman. Devoted aunt of Brad and Jordon. Funeral services Friday, 10 AM, at Temple Emanu-el, 65th Street and 5th Avenue. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to one of the following: Irvington Institute For Medical Research, 120 East 56 St, NY, NY 10022; The Mount Sinai Medical Center, 1 Gustave L. Levy Place, Box 1049, NY, NY 10029; Bachmann-Strauss Dystonia & Parkinson Foundation, Inc., The Mount Sinai Medical Center, 1 Gustave L. Levy Place, Box 1490, New York, New York 10029.
        KRAVIS RUGER-Helene Diane, New York, April 2, 1997. The employees of Cullman & Kravis, Inc. offer our deepest sympathies to the children and family of Helene (Hedi) Kravis Ruger. She was a mentor, a mother and a friend, whose graciousness and guidance was invaluable to all of us. Her impeccable taste and sense of style will be with us always. As a principal of Cullman & Kravis, Hedi devoted herself to designing and creating beautiful interiors for family and friends throughout the world. Her constant pursuit for perfection instilled a similar sense of aesthetic in us which we will carry on in her honor. We extend our hearts and our love to Ellie Cullman, Hedi's best friend, business partner and surrogate sister. We mourn her loss with her children Kimberley and Robert, her sister Sharon Beckerman and her nephews Brad and Jordan. The Employees of Cullman and Kravis Incorporated: Angeline Bafford, Lee Cavanaugh, Leigh Chiu, Jennifer Flanders Amanda Marcantonio, Tracey Pruzan, Allison Schrank, Ellen Sperrazza, Arden Stephenson, Sheryl Vandermolen, Sandy Vanderzee and Vaughan Woodson
        KRAVIS RUGER-Helene Diane, New York, April 2, 1997. She was a friend to all of us, compassionate and always there for us. She entertained us in her home with grace and style. She cared deeply about our children whom she considered her young friends. She cherished all of lifes' pleasures and lived life to the fullest. She achieved prominence as a founding partner of the interior design firm of Cullman and Kravis. She wrote beautifully and used words so effectively to describe her thoughts & feelings. We shared many happy occasions together-birthdays, anniversaries, weddings and more. We shared several tragic experiences but it was all part of a very special relationship with a very special person. We extend our deepest sympathies to Robbie and K.K., her sister Sharon, and her nephews Brad and Jordon. Her loving friends from the world over.
        KRAVIS RUGER-Helene Diane. The Contemporary Arts Council of The Museum of Modern Art mourns the loss of its devoted member and friend, Helene Kravis Ruger. Hedi was an active participant in our programs for many years, an enthusiastic supporter of the Museum, and above all, a beautiful presence. She will be long and affectionately remembered by all of us. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to Hedi's children Robbie and K.K., to the other members of her family, and to her associate and fellow council member, Ellie Cullman. Barbara Foshay-Miller Melville Straus, Co-Chairmen Patricia Whitman, Director, The Contemporary Arts Council
        KRAVIS RUGER-Helene Diane. (Hedi). The Board of Directors of the Irvington Institute for Immunological Research records with profound sadness the passing of Mrs. Helene Diane Kravis Ruger. Hedi was a dear friend and a devoted member of Irvington's Board for more than twenty-four years. Hedi brought compassion, commitment and grace to Irvington. Her expertise and guidance on Irvington's Art & Antiques Auctions were invaluable. Hedi's strength, joie de vivre and sense of style will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to her children and family. Mrs. John J. Veronis, Chairman Joshua S. Rubenstein, Esq., Pres. Gail L. Freeman, Exec. Director
        KRAVIS RUGER-Helene Diane. You were always there with advice, understanding and the deepest friendship. Hedi, we love you, and will miss you always. Our prayers are with your most wonderful and courageous children, KK and Robby, and your devoted sister Sharon, and nephews Brad and Jordon. Pam, Ed, Jason and Jordan Pantzer
        KRAVIS RUGER-Helene. We will greatly miss our friend, Hedi, who added much joy to our lives. Her energy, style and courage were lessons for us all. We offer our love to her dear children, KK and Robby, and to her adoring sister, Sharon, and nephews, Brad and Jordon. Karen, Richard, Harrison and James LeFrak
        KRAVIS RUGER-Hedi. The Finch College Association expresses its deepest sympathy to Hedi Shulman Kravis Ruger's children and family.
        KRAVIS RUGER-Helene Diane. To our childhood friend who always ''had that thing.'' We will miss you. Dara and Susan
      