
        HERZOG-Chaim. The entire Boys Town Jerusalem family joins with the family of Israel in mourning the passing of Chaim Herzog, the sixth President of Israel. We remain inspired by the remarks he made after his visit to Boys Town. ''The things I saw here today convince me that Boys Town Jerusalem is truly unique. This outstanding institution of Torah and technology gives its students not only a comprehensive education but a sense of respect and love for the People and the State of Israel. Behind the name of Boys Town Jerusalem rests an exalted conceptone which brings together the youths of all tribes of Israel and unites them in the spirit of the Torah, 'whose ways are ways of pleasantness and whose paths are all of peace.' Here, one learns not to shut oneself in, not to be isolated from the community of Israel, but rather to be an involved, creative and responsible citizen of Israel as it takes the first steps on the road to redemption. If there is any development that should give us cause for concern, it is the splintering of the Jewish People into sects and groups of all kinds. At Boys Town Jerusalem, I have found a source of hope I have found a source of hope for unity and love between the different parts of the Jewish People. The students of Boys Town Jerusalem leave here strengthened in their Torah and in their faith, able to identify heart and soul with the building of the State of Israel, and appreciative of the contributions of all segments of our nation, without exception, to Israel's redemption. Boys Town Jerusalem's graduates are spread throughout the land. They have fought in the ranks of the Israel Defense Forces, shoulder to shoulder with their brothers from cities, villages and kibbutzim. Many have fallen in battle, and their names are inscribed forever in the hearts of our People. In the weekly portion of the Prophets, we read: 'And the people shall all be righteous and they shall inherit the land forever; they are the offshoots of My plantings, the glorious works of My hands. The small shall grow into thousands, and the young shall become a mighty nation. These wonderful verses are fitting to be said of Boys Town Jerusalem. May there indeed be more of you.'' May there be many more like Chaim Herzog. May the Almighty comfort his family among the mourners of Zion and Jersualem. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Alexander S. Linchner, V. Chmn Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Exec VP
        HERZOG-Chaim. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Chaim Herzog, sixth President of the State of Israel, Ambassador to the United Nations, head of the Israeli Military Intelligence and General in the Israel Army, who not only lived through a historic period in world history-but helped to create it. As the son of Isaac Halevy Herzog, first Ashkenazi Chief Rabbi of the State of Israel, he received a thorough religious and secular education starting with the Hebron Yeshiva through the Wesley College in Dublin, the Government of Palestine Law School in Jerusalem and London and Cambridge Universities. Although he received many awards as co-author of more than six books, liberator of the victims of Nazi concentration camps while serving as officer in the British Armed Forces and honored by both branches of the U.S. Congress-In recent years he was most proud of the establishment of the Chaim Herzog Center for Middle East Studies & Diplomacy and the Ben Gurion University in the Negev-he served as a distinguished member on the Board of Directors of our Slim Fast Foods Companies for many years as a colleague of the greatest reliability, a loyal associate and an important factor in the success of a number of our business decisions. President Chaim Herzog brought a great sense of dignity and respect to the Jews throughout the world in general, and the citizens in Israel in particular because of his intellect, warmth, and his profound feeling of love and understanding for all members of the human race throughout the world. May the ''Almighty'' comfort his wife, Aura, his children and grandchildren among the bereaved people of Zion and Jerusalem and may his memory serve as a beacon of light to guide them all in the years ahead. S. Daniel Abraham, Chairman of the Board Dr. Edward L. Steinberg, Vice Chairman of the Board Slim Fast Foods Company
        HERZOG-Chaim. Dearest Aura, we extend to you our deepest and most heartfelt condolences on the loss of your beloved Chaim. Our thoughts are with you and your family. We all mourn the loss of your beloved husband, a great leader and our dear friend. Through his devotion, commitment and courage, Chaim's life was perfect metaphor for the history of our people. His guidance and wisdom, always so pivotal to the growth and well being of our young nation, will be deeply missed. His brilliant legacy, however, will never fade. Chaim Herzog lives on in the hearts of all of us. May the Almighty comfort his family and the bereaved people of Zion and Jerusalem. American Friends Council for a Beautiful Israel
        HERZOG-Chaim. United Jewish Appeal mourns the passing of Chaim Herzog: courageous soldier, Israel's brilliant and articulate Ambassador to the United Nations and sixth President, who served with dignity, strength and grace. May his wife Ora and his entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Richard L. Wexler National Chairman Richard L. Pearlstone President Bernard C. Moscovitz V.P., Chief Operating Officer
        HERZOG-Chaim. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of former Israeli President, Chaim Herzog. His service to the Jewish State and the Jewish people and his dedication to democracy and civil rights was unparalleled. We extend our deepest sympathies to the Herzog family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. David H. Strassler National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        HERZOG-Honorable Chaim. Con gregation Kehilath Jeshurun mourns the passing of the illustrious past President of the State of Israel who was a cherished member and regular worshiper in our Synagogue during his days of brilliant service as Israel's Ambassador to the United Nations. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife and children and to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Fred Distenfeld, President
        HERZOG-Chaim. EMUNAH of America mourns the loss of President Chaim Herzog, beloved son of our late World President Rabbanit Sarah Herzog. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Dr. Rosalie Reich National President Shirley Singer, Exec VP
      