
        WIENER-Gabe. New York City Opera is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of the son and brother of our very good friends, Mike Zena and Jenny Wiener. We extend our friendship and profound sympathy to the entire family on their tragic loss. May the knowledge of the support of their many friends help to sustain them at this time. Irwin Schneiderman Co Chairman Paul Kellogg General Director Sherwin M. Goldman Executive Producer
        WIENER-Gabe. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation extend our heartfelt condolences to our Honorary Board Members and dear friends Zena and Michael Wiener on the sudden and untimely loss of their beloved son Gabe. He was a young man of great promise and his passing will create an unfillable void. Our hearts go out to his sister Jen, and to those who loved him. Alan P. Safir, Chairman David T. Workman, President
        WIENER-Gabe. The current and former staff members of Quintessential Sound and PGM Recordings express their profound sorrow at the sudden loss of QSI/ PGM's founder and visionary, Gabe M. Wiener, on April 9, 1997. We are privileged to have worked so closely with one whose love of music, passion for audio and quest for knowledge touched us so deeply. Though we will miss him dearly as a friend, mentor and leader, we will carry Gabe's spirit and drive into our future endeavors.
        WIENER-Gabe. The Board of Directors, musicians and staff of the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra send most profound sympathies to our dear friends and generous supporters, Zena and Michael Wiener, and their daughter Jennifer, on the devastating loss of their son Gabe. He was a young man of exquisite musical taste, brilliant vision and boundless energy. Classical record lovers the world over have been deprived of a great talent who had already bebegun to enrich our lives.
        WIENER-Gabriel. To our beloved cousin who left us far too soon. His passion for music and language will never be forgotten. His glorious voice, creativity and thirst for knowledge will be in our hearts always. His memory will be an inspiration to us all. Amy, Neal, Joshua and Rachel Rosenberg
        WIENER-Gabe. To our dear and cherished friends, Zena and Mike Wiener and Gabe's loving sister Jenny, the bright, shining star of your darling son and brother Gabe will live in all our hearts forever. We love you. Barbara and Fred
        WIENER-Gabe. We mourn the loss of Gabe, most beloved and talented son, brother and friend. To Zena, Mike and Jennie, all our thoughts and love. Sandy and Cynthia, Jackie, Eve and David, and Susan
        WIENER-Gabe. To Zee, Mike and Jenny, the world will miss his genius and the sounds that will never be recorded. Our hearts go out to each of you. We love you. Joan and Alan
        WIENER-Gabe. Special cousin, we will miss you but we will always hear your music and remember you with love. Marty, Jill, George and Sarah
      