
        SAMERS-Bernard. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of the American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology (ATS) mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Bernie Samers. Bernie succumbed after a long and gallant battle with cancer but he faced his illness with courage, grace and dignity and worked creatively until the very end. He fought his disease and pursued his career with the tenacity and sense of humor that were so much a part of his character. He ably filled the position of vice president for administration and vice president for campaign with ATS from 1983 to 1986, when he became the executive vice president of the American Committee for the Weizmann Institute. In making a transition from volunteer to professional in the field of Jewish communal service, he displayed exemplary leadership ability, intelligence, wisdom and dedication to Jewish values. He had a significant impact on both organizations he served and made a major contribution to the American Jewish community and to Israel. Bernie brought out the best in people and he will remain in our hearts. We, his colleagues, extend deepest sympathy to his wife, Edith, and his children, Bill, Michael and Audrey. Irving A. Shepard, President Ben Z. Sosewitz, Chairman of the Board Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Paul Rovinsky, Senior Vice President/Finance Stephen D. Schreier, Senior Vice President/Campaign Beth Wilner, Vice President/Development
        SAMERS-Bernard. The Board and staff of Hillel of New York mourn the passing of Bernard Samers, father of Audrey, a member of our Board. Our heartfelt condolences to Audrey and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mimi Alperin, Chair of the Board Eric Zahler, President Maidelle Goodman Benamy Executive Director
        SAMERS-Bernard. The Board and leadership of The United Jewish Federation of Stamford mourn Bernard Samers, distinguished Past President of the Federation and husband of Edith, our Vice President. To Edith, Audrey, Michael and Bill, we extend our sincerest sympathies. Robert A. Breakstone, President Sheila L. Romanowitz, Exec. Dir.
      