
        DOLGENOS-David. We mourn the passing of a very special man. Your wisdom, counsel and humanity will guide us forever. Our deepest condolences to Nancy and to your entire family. Services Thursday, May 8th, 3:30 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. The firm of Dolgenos Newman & Cronin
        DOLGENOS-David, on May 6th, 1997. Husband of Nancy Dunbar; father of Peter, Peggy, Carey, and Tom. Step-father of Jennie and Gabe. Survived also by Sally Ashley. Grandfather of Jake, Annika, and Kate. Father-in-law of Chris Neklason, Sarah Ricks and Luca Padulli. Service Thursday, May 8, 3:30 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St.
        DOLGENOS-David. The Officers of Workbench Inc. mourn the death of our wise counselor, vigorous advocate and beloved friend, David Dolgenos. Warmth, wit and insight fused his personal and professional selves into one remarkable man. We will miss him greatly. To Nancy and the family which gave him so much joy, we offer our loving sympathy. Warren Rubin Bernice Wollman
        DOLGENOS-David. The Dickens Group grieves the death of the husband of our dear friend and member Nancy Dunbar. David's zest for life, sense of humor and love for Nancy made us all happy. We miss him. Olivia Altschuler, Judith Baumrin, Joanna Cole, Barbara Fisher, Joann McGrath, Jane Meltzer, Susan Rieger, Susan Strane, Florian Stuber
        DOLGENOS-David. The Partners and staff of Weissbarth, Altman & Michaelson LLP express their sorrow at the passing of their friend and counsellor David who was suddenly taken from Nancy, his children, step-children and all who knew him. Ronald Altman Robert Michaelson Martin Gang
        DOLGENOS-David. A lifelong friend and Partner whose humor, compassion, wisdom and counsel will be severely missed by all who knew him. Our heartfelt condolences to Nancy, his children, stepchildren, extended family and friends. Ronald, Toby, Helen & Liz Altman
        DOLGENOS-David. The Board of Directors and staff of Lawyers for Children, Inc. extend our heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathy to our friend and colleague, Nancy Dunbar, and her family on the sudden loss of Nancy's beloved husband, David Dolgenos.
        DOLGENOS-David. Our heartfelt condolences to Nancy, Thomas, Peter, Peggy, Carey, Gabe and Jennie and his extended family. We share your profound sorrow and loss. Bob and Barbara Michaelson
        DOLGENOS-David. We will miss his wit, his love of life and his insightful intelligence, which made him such a great partner. All of us from the Gateside Organization will miss him.
        DOLGENOS-David. It's tough to lose a partner, tougher still to lose a friend. We'll remember you always. Arline and Norman Feinberg
        DOLGENOS-David. Barkis was willing. I love you. Nancy
      