
        LUTZ-William Charles. December 12, 1911-April 14, 1997. Bill Lutz was born in Brooklyn, NY. He met ''the light of my life,'' Natalie Trentowski, at the end of a fencing foil in 1937. They were married in 1940 and had three daughters: Winifred, Barbara, and Beverly. In 1945/46, he served as an Army Corps of Engineers 1st Lieutenant in Manila, the Philippines, utilizing his real estate appraisal skills in the reconstruction efforts. He had joined the New York Life Insurance Company at age 14 as office boy, and rose to Senior Vice President in charge of Real Estate and Mortgage Loans during his 51 years there. He was highly regarded for his ethical integrity, social conscience, and irreverent humor. His business career included membership in the Institute of Real Estate Appraisers, Institute of Real Estate Management, Chicago Real Estate Board, Mortgage Advisory Committee of the New York State Employees' Retirement System, and Advisory Board of NYU's Real Estate Institute. Bill's energy was boundless and his ability to focus this energy over a breadth of interests was amazing. A skillful self-taught carpenter, he obtained a patent on an adjustable rocking horse, remodeled four homes, built exquisite bookcases for his bibliophile wife. He exercised his considerable flair for drama at church play-reading groups and took his family camping in the national parks every summer. He served on the boards of the many Unitarian Universalist Churches he joined as his family moved across the U.S. due to his promotions at NYLIC. He also found time to write eloquent letters to the government against the Vietnam War, supporting reproductive rights, decrying pollution, advocating gun control and the fight against racism. On retirement, he embarked on an active schedule of Elderhostels, and also served as an RTM member in Greenwich, CT. Late in his 70's, he became a volunteer income tax counselor for ''the old folks,'' ESL tutor, and blood donor to age 80. He will be remembered for his creativity, commitment to family and friends, his love of laughter, his embrace of life. After his wife died, Thanksgiving Day, 1996, Bill dreamt he heard her say, ''why don't you join me?'' A confirmed secular humanist, he responded, ''where are you?'' All of us who loved this remarkable, generous man are sure that he will find her. Memorial service, May 31, 3:30 PM, Unitarian Society of Stamford, CT (203-348-0708). In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions in his name to Environmental Defense Fund, 257 Park Ave., NY, NY or Unitarian Society, 20 Forest St., Stamford, CT 06901.
      