
        RIFKIN-Dr. Harold. After a long illness. Adored husband to Bibi. Beloved father to Janet, Matthew, and Phyllis. Devoted grandfather to six wonderful grandsons. Funeral private. Memorial service to be announced at a later date.
        RIFKIN-Harold, M.D. Distinguished and dedicated physician, teacher and author, loving husband and father, and my dear brother-in-law and good friend. Rest in peace. Helen Sunshine and Family
        RIFKIN-Harold, M.D. Montefiore Medical Center notes with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Harold Rifkin. A distinguished member of our staff for more than 45 years, and chief of the division of Diabetes, Dr. Rifkin was an internationally renowned clinician, researcher and educator who made vital contributions to the understanding and treatment of diabetes and other metabolic diseases. A leader in national and international diabetes organizations, he served as president of the American Diabetes Association, as vice-president of the International Diabetes Federation and was the author of numerous scientific publications. Dr. Rifkin was awarded many professional honors. In 1991, the ADA created the Harold Rifkin Award and Medal for Distinguished International Service in the Cause of Diabetes in his honor. Our heart felt sympathy goes to his wife, Bibi, his daughters Janet and Phyllis and son Matthew, and to his entire family. Spencer Foreman, MD, President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        RIFKIN-Harold, M.D. The American Diabetes Association New York State Affiliate notes with sorrow and a deep sense of loss the passing of Dr. Harold Rifkin, an outstanding clinician, internationally recognized scientist and renowned educator. He served with distinction as President of the Board of Directors and as President of the Clinical Society. Dr. Rifkin cared for and served people with diabetes in many ways, always with a vision of a world without diabetes and for a better life for those affected by diabetes. His friendship, counsel and leadership will be sorely missed by all those who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathy to his dear wife, children and grandchildren. Margaret Spencer, Chair of the Board Harvey Katzeff, M.D., President of the Board and Staff
      