
        GURWIN-Rosalind. Beloved and devoted wife of Joseph. Adored and cherished mother of Laura Flug, Eric Gurwin, mother-in-law of Karen, twin sister of Murray Brizel, loving grandmother of Danielle, Jeffrey, Jason and Jaclyn. Services on Tuesday, 12 noon, Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, corner Middle Neck Road and Old Mill Rd. Contributions can be made in her name to the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center, PO Box 9017, Commack, NY 11725, or to the charity of your choice.
        GURWIN-Rosalind. With great sadness, the Board of Directors, Administration and Residents of the Rosalind and Joseph Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center of Long Island mourn the passing of Rosalind Gurwin, a founding member of our Center and cherished wife of Joseph Gurwin, President of the Board of Directors. Roz was a woman of great strength and dedication. Together, Roz and Joe's vision of providing a home for the Jewish aging, paying tribute to their own parents, has grown to become a comprehensive care institution nationally renowned for its outstanding care delivered with warmth, dignity and compassion. Roz was intimately involved with the Center from the beginning, attending every meeting and imprinting her own sense of grace, warmth and compassion on its ambiance, and its mission of ''caring for those who cared for us.'' Together, as partners in philanthropy spanning the globe, Roz and Joe built numerous monuments to human caring. Her charitable service is her legacy to the world, just as her love and devotion is her legacy to her family. Rosalind Gurwin will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to Joseph, their children, Laura Flug, and Eric and Karen Gurwin, and their grandchildren. Alfred W. Levy, Chairman of the Board Herbert H. Friedman, Executive Vice President
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The officers, board and staff of the American Society for Technion (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Rosalind Gurwin of Long Island and Palm Beach, Fl., a visionary supporter of the American Technion Society, the Technion and Israel. Together with her husband, Joseph, she provided major support for the Technion's 1995 ''Gurwin I Tech-Sat'' satellite and the ''Gurwin II Tech Sat,'' to be launched this fall, helping further Israel's and the Technion's lead in micro - satellite design. Their projects have provided employment for immigrant scientists and unique world-class design experiences for Technion students. As Technion Guardians, the Gurwins demonstrated the highest level of commitment for the Technion. In recognition of her exemplary devotion, Mrs. Gurwin and her husband were awarded the Albert Einstein Award, the highest honor bestowed by the ATS. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Joseph Gurwin and the entire Gurwin family. American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Irving A. Shepard, President Ben Z. Sosewitz, Chairman of Bd. Melvyn H. Bloom, Exec. V.P. Cindy Sipkin, N.Y. Metropolitan Region Chair Joseph Huber, NY Metropolitan Region Director
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York deeply mourn the passing of Rosalind Gurwin, wife of Joseph Gurwin, our former chairman of the board and one of our community's true giants in philanthropy and communal service. For many years, Mrs. Gurwin, a true partner with her husband, was an outstanding leader for UJA-Federation, and a strong supporter of both the New York and Palm Beach campaigns. She was active in the Women's Campaign and served with distinction as a member of our Board of Directors and Building Art Committee. Her philanthropic support extended to the Rosalind and Joseph Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center of Long Island, an outstanding beneficiary of UJA-Federation. Her compassion and devotion to helping those in need, both in New York and in Israel, will always be remembered. To her husband, Joseph; her daughter, Laura Flug; her son, Eric; daughter-in-law, Karen; grandchildren, Danielle, Jeffrey, Jason, and Jaclyn; and her entire family, we extend our deepest sympathies. Larry A. Silverstein, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        GURWIN-Rosalind. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine express profound sorrow on the death of this gracious lady. Together with her husband, noted philanthropist Joseph Gurwin, she was dedicated to the creative advancement of our institutions. Heartfelt condolences to Mr. Gurwin, son Eric, daughter Laura Flug, and all members of the bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman Chairman, Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick Chairperson, Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The Board of Directors and Administration of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Foundation are profoundly saddened by the passing of Rosalind Gurwin beloved wife of Joseph Gurwin, adoring mother of Laura Flug, Karen and Eric Gurwin, and proud grandmother. Through the years Rosalind and Joseph's generousity and fervor has made an extraordinary impact on people of all ages and diverse needs. Mrs. Gurwin truly was the embodiment of, ''share in the joy of giving.'' Lawrence Simon, Chairman of the Board S. Merrill Skeist, President Herbert H. Friedman, Executive Vice President
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The trustees and staff of Long Island Jewish Medical Center mourn the loss of Rosalind Gurwin, beloved wife of our esteemed colleague and devoted trustee, Joseph. Their extraordinary contributions to LIJ, to the Jewish community and to the field of health care have enriched the lives of countless people in Long Island, New York City and the State of Israel. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her entire family. Gedale B. Horowitz, chairman of the Board of Trustees David R. Dantzker, MD, president and CEO
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The Leadership and Staff of Israel Bonds Greater New York Campaigns mourn the passing of Rosalind Gurwin and extend heartfelt condolences to Joseph Gurwin, long time member of Israel Bonds Prime Minister's and President's clubs and a staunch supporter of Israel's economic development. Our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Gideon Patt, President Burton P. Resnick, National Campaign Chairman Irwin Hochberg, New York General Chairman
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) deeply mourn the passing of the beloved wife of its devoted Board member, Joseph Gurwin. She was a warm and gracious lady who shared her husband's deep concern for the rescue, relief and reconstruction of Jewish life around the world. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Jonathan Kolker, President Michael Schneider, Executive VP Amb. Milton A. Wolf, Bd. Chair.
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The Board of Directors and Staff of the American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev mourn the loss of Rosalind Gurwin, beloved wife of Joseph Gurwin, a longtime supporter and friend of BGU. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Joseph, Eric, Laura and the entire family. Harold L. Oshry Chairman of the Board Kenneth L. Tucker, President Kenneth M. Farber Executive Vice President
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The Tel Aviv Foundation mourn with deep sorrow the passing of Rosalind Gurwin, loving wife of Joseph. Our heartfelt condolences to our very special friend. She will be greatly missed. Hon. Roni Milo, Mayor Tel Aviv-Yafo David Altman, Dir. General of the Tel Aviv Foundation Miri Nash and Barbara Harris, Tel Aviv Foundation USA
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The Washington Institute for Near East Policy records with profound sorrow the passing of our devoted trustee and dear friend Rosalind Gurwin. Her indomitable spirit and devotion to good causes served as an inspiration to all of us. Michael Stein, President Barbi Weinberg, Chairman
        GURWIN-Rosalind. Rosalind was a woman of valor whose memory will live in the hearts of all she touched. We feel privileged to have known her and express our heartfelt condolences to her husband Joseph, their children Laura Flug, Karen and Eric Gurwin, and their grandchildren. Esther and Herb Friedman
        GURWIN-Rosalind. Roz Gurwin's commitment to make the world a better place, her good humor in the face of physical problems, her rationality, her capacity for empathy make her loss so much greater and her memory treasured. Our condolences to her Joseph and her loving family. Marian and Merrill Skeist
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The Board of Governors of The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Rosalind Gurwin, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary
        GURWIN-Rosalind. We feel grateful to have shared the friendship that lasted close to one-half century. Your warmth, quick wit, and generous spirit will always be remembered and missed. Our condolences and deepest sympathy to Joseph, Laura, Eric and Karen. Mel and Doris Sirow
        GURWIN-Rosalind. Dear friend for many years. Our heartfelt condolences to Joseph, Laura and Eric. We share your profound sorrow and loss. Dorothy and Harold Ames
        GURWIN-Rosalind. Dearest Ros, we will miss you so. A gracious lady-a warm, caring and wonderful friend. Our deepest sympathy to Joe, Laura and Eric. With love, Bernice and Sid Jacobson
        GURWIN-Rosalind. We deeply mourn the loss of our dear, dear friend of more than 40 years. Our love to Joe and the entire family. Bobby and Maurie
        GURWIN-Rosalind. Roz, a sweet and loving friend who will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathy to Joe and Laura and Eric. Love, Ronne and Sam Wulwick
      