
        FOLDES-Francis F., M.D. The Chairman, faculty and members of the entire Dept. of Anesthesiology are very deeply saddened by the death of Francis F. Foldes, M.D., Chairman Emeritus of Montefiore's Dept. of Anesthesiology. Dr. Foldes, Montefiore's first Chairman of Anesthesiology was a dedicated physician and scientist and admired colleague and a respected mentor to generations of students. He was also a close friend to many members of the department. His research, including pioneering work in muscle relaxants, had an enormous impact on the practice of anesthesiology and surgery. Dr. Foldes was awarded many honors including the Distinquished Service Award and the Award for Excellence from the American Society of Anesthesiology. He was the first American to serve as President of the World Federation of Societies of Anesthesiologists and was Chairman of the Medical Advisory Board of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation. Born and educated in Budapest, Dr. Foldes and his wife, Edith, emigrated to the United States in 1941. He authored numerous clinical articles and co-authored four books. In 1997, Montefiore Medical Center established a Francis F. Foldes, M.D. Chair of Anesthesiology in his honor. Our deepest condolences are extended to his wife, Edith; his children Eva Travers, Barbara Wolkowitz and Judy Dickson; his grandchildren and entire family. Albert J. Saubermann, M.D. Francis F. Foldes, M.D. Professor of Anesthesiology and Chairman, Dept. of Anesthesiology Faculty and Staff, Department of Anesthesiology Montefiore Medical Center Jacobi Medical Center North Central Bronx Hospital
        FOLDES-Francis F., M.D. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is saddened by the passing of Dr. Francis F. Foldes, a distinguished anesthesiologist who served on our faculty for over three decades. We admired his skills as a physician and scientist, and were particularly grateful for his dedicated mentorship to generations of our students. We extend condolences to his wife, Edith, and the entire family. Dominick P. Purpura, M.D., Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
      