
        KRIEBLE-Robert H. Scientist, entrepreneur, and a founder of the Loctite Corporation, died on May 8th at his home in Old Lyme, CT. He was 80 years old. He attended Phillips Academy, Andover; Haverford College; and received his Ph.D. in Chemistry from Johns Hopkins University where he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Signa Xi. He held various positions with the General Electric Co. He was a patentee in silicone chemistry there, and later head of commercial chemical development. Dr. Krieble with his father, Vernon, developed the first commercially successful anaerobic adhesive and founded the Loctite Corporation which later became a Fortune 500 company. Dr. Krieble always believed that private free enterprise was a better promoter of world peace and international cooperation than any governmental organization. At retirement, he founded the Krieble Institute, dedicated to promoting political and economic freedom within the still existing Soviet Empire. In 1989 he was declared an agent of influence and an enemy of the State by the Supreme Soviet for his success in encouraging democracy throughout the Empire, an act which he considered one of his greatest achievements. After the dissolution of the Soviet Empire, Krieble institute volunteers went on to teach the basics of political technology in eleven time zones contributing to the election of over 4,000 elected officials committed to democratic principles. Volunteers also taught basic business techniques and capitalist principles to hundreds of young entrepreneurs. Dr. Krieble was a trustee of Johns Hopkins University as well as the Heritage Foundation, a director of the Hoover Institution, Mont Pelerin Society, Free Congress Research and Education Foundation, Citizens Democracy Corp. (a Reagan Presidential Appointment), Jamestown Foundation, Empower America and many more. Among his many awards were the Commerical Development Association Honor Award, The Eagle Award in Public Affairs and The Chemical Industry Association's Entrepreneur of the Year award in 1979. He is survived by his wife, Nancy Brayton Krieble, his son Frederick B. Krieble, daughter Helen E. Krieble (Fusscas) and five grandchildren. A Memorial service will be held at the Trinity College Chapel in Hartford, CT on May 22nd at 2:p.m.
      