
        WALSH-Cornelius Stephen. Mr. Walsh, 89 years old, of Palm Beach, Florida, died Friday May 2, 1997, at Good Samaritan Medical Center in West Palm Beach. Born in New York City, he was a long time resident of Palm Beach, New York and Spring Lake, NJ. Mr. Walsh was a Founder of States Marine Corp., which was begun in 1931 and which operated in the Merchant Marine Service that supported our troops during World War II. From 1946 to 1965 he served as President and Director of States Marine Lines which owned and operated more than 100 vessels in service throughout the world from Atlantic, Gulf and Pacific ports under the States Marine flag or those of affiliated concerns. Retiring after 35 years of service with States Marine Lines, Mr. Walsh purchased Waterman Steamship Co. of Mobile, AL. Mr. Walsh served as Chairman of the Board of Waterman Steamship and Waterman Industries from 1965 to 1989 and was Chairman of Hammond Leasing Corp. from 1967-1990. He served as Chairman of the Board of Waterman Lijnen, Rotterdam, Netherlands; Waterman Linen of Bremen, Germany. Mr. Walsh was also an Honorary Director of the Japan Society, New York City, NY, and served as Director of the Far East American Council of Commerce and Industry. He was a member of the syndicate which built the 12 Meter Yacht ''Weatherly,'' which successfully defended the America's Cup in 1962. Mr. Walsh held memberships in the American Bureau of Shipping, New York City, NY; the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, also of New York City, NY; The Metropolitan Opera of New York; Sewanaka-Corinthian Yacht Club in Oyster Bay, NY; The Pine Valley Golf Club of Clementon, NJ. Other memberships included: The Society of the Four Arts, The Bath and Tennis Club, The Everglades Club and the Palm Beach Civic Association, all of Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Walsh was a long-time member of St. Edward's Catholic Church in Palm Beach, FL. Survivors include his son: Richard S. Walsh of Millbrook, NY; two daughters: Jane W. Weed of Puerta Vallarta, Jalisco, Mexico and Greenwich, CT, and Suzanne P. White of Bryn Mawr, PA. Also surviving are five grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. Additional survivors include a sister: Frances Moore of Yorktown Heights, NY, and a brother: Edward P. Walsh of New York City, NY. Friends may call at Quattlebaum-HollemanBurse Funeral Home, 1201 South Olive Avenue, West Palm Beach, FL, on Wednesday, May 7, 1997, from 10:00 until 11:30 AM. Private services will be held at 12 Noon. In lieu of flowers, those who wish may make contributions to Good Samaritan Medical Center, 1309 North Flagler Drive, West Palm Beach, FL 33401. A memorial service will be held in New York City at a future date.
      