
        RIFKIN-Harold, MD. We at NYU Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of our colleague and dear friend, Dr. Harold Rifkin, Professor of Clinical Medicine. He was a giant among physicians who were the elite of clinical researchers and stood out as a leader in the academic community of scholars and researchers who contributed greatly to the advances of medicine by bringing the results of highly productive and imaginative laboratory results to the bedside. His numerous publications and his classic textbook on diabetes expanded our knowledge of the basic and clinical sciences related to diabetes which improved and prolonged the lives of many diabetics. To his many patients, he was a model personal physician. Dr. Rifkin was always supportive and compassionate to the individual patient as well as to their families. He was highly respected, admired and recognized worldwide by professional organizations as a leading clinician, researcher and teacher. He was the recipient of the most prestigious awards from medical schools and professional organizations and served as President of the American Diabetes Association. His students included medical students, residents, fellows and post graduate physicians. All benefited immensely from his teaching and considered him a role model par excellence. We have lost a great physician scientist of the golden era of medicine encompassing fifty years of clinical research. Harold Rifkin was a beloved husband to his loving wife of many years Bibi, and a wonderful father and grandfather. We express our deep sympathy to his spouse Bibi, son Matthew, daughters Janet and Phyllis and to his grandchildren. Laurence A. Tisch, Chairman Board of Trustees New York University L. Jay Oliva, President New York University Thomas S. Murphy, Chairman, Board of Trustees NYU Medical Center Saul J. Farber, MD, MACP Provost and Dean NYU Medical Center
        RIFKIN-Harold. We mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague, mentor, partner and dear friend, Harold Rifkin, M.D. His erudition, scholarly lectures and numerous publications have touched the lives of millions of people afflicted with diabetes, the disease to which he devoted his entire professional career. However, nowhere was his impact felt greater than in the confines of our office where he gave personalized attention to each of the patients for whom he cared. We were privileged to share in his boundless energy devoted to direct patient care and in his passion to teach generations of young physicians. The world of medicine has lost one of its truly great giants. We extend our condolences to Bibi, Janet, Matthew, Phyllis and grandchildren. Gerald Bernstein, M.D. David Seinfeld, M.D.
        RIFKIN-Harold, M.D. The physicians and staff of the Harold Rifkin Diabetes Centre mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Harold Rifkin, M.D. A distinguished endocrinologist and driving force in the understanding & treatment of diabetes, Dr. Rifkin's vision and leadership will continue to be an inspiration for us all. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wife and family. The Harold Rifkin Diabetes Centre of Mid-Manhattan Med Assocs. Gerald Bernstein, M.D. Director
        RIFKIN-Harold, M.D. The Officers and Trustees of The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourn the passing of Dr. Harold Rifkin, a devoted member of our Board of Trustees. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Bibi and his family. Seth H. Frisch, Rabbi Debra Stein-Davidson, Cantor Betty L. Marmon, President
      