
        RACKMAN-Ruth. The Officers, Board of Directors, faculty and staff of Bar-Ilan University in Israel, and the American Friends of Bar-Ilan, mourn with great sorrow the passing of the beloved First Lady of our university, Mrs. Ruth Rackman. A woman of quiet strength, character and dignity, she was a devoted mother, grandmother and great-grandmother who was loved and respected by all who knew her. The adored wife of Bar-Ilan Chancellor Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Mrs. Rackman was a full partner and guiding influence in all of Rabbi Rackman's achievements and efforts on behalf of the Jewish People. A driving force in her own right, she attained professional success as Associate Professor of Guidance at Bronx Community College as well as in her role as a full-time Rebbetzin. Her love for Israel, the Jewish People and our university is embodied in the Maria Finkle & Ruth Rackman Student Counseling Building at Bar-Ilan University, a testament to her abiding concern and commitment to serving the needs of students. She will be sorely missed. May the entire Rackman family draw solace from inspiring memories and pride in the sterling example she set for others to emulate. May her memory be for a blessing. Professor Moshe Kaveh, President, Bar-Ilan University Jane Stern Lebell, President, American Friends, Bar-Ilan University Brig Gen. (Res.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice-President Bar-Ilan University
        RACKMAN-Ruth. The Yeshiva University family expresses profound sorrow on the passing of this very special woman, beloved wife of Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, chancellor and former president of Bar-Ilan University. The Rackman family has always been a ''Yeshiva University Family'': Dr. Rackman, a world-renowned rabbinic leader, author, and educator, is a dedicated alumnus and honorary degree recipient, and was YU provost during the 1970s, and their three sons are also alumni. Ruth Rackman presided as a modern matriarch over her family for the 66 years she and her husband were married. Innately elegant, yet warm and witty, she was the consummate ''Rebbitzin'' and, later, first lady. A generous and giving person, she was adored by her family and by admiring friends on two continents. We offer our heartfelt condolences to Rabbi Rackman, sons Michael (and Honey), Joseph (and Elaine), and Bennett (and Ruth), brother Bernard Fishman, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        RACKMAN-Ruth. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of a noble lady, beloved wife of its illustrious former Rabbi, Dr. Emanuel Rackman, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres. David Yagoda, Chairman William Schwartz, Pres. Dorothy Hirsch, Chair, Women's Club Suzanne Javitt, Pres. Women's Club
        RACKMAN-Ruth. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun mourns the passing of the beloved wife of the esteemed Rabbi and Chancellor of Bar Ilan University, Rabbi Emanuel Rackman and the beloved sister of our devoted member, Bernard D. Fischman. We extend heartfelt condolences to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Fred Distenfeld, President
        RACKMAN-Ruth. Congregation Ohab Zedek, Belle Harbor, NY, mourns the passing of the beloved wife of Rabbi Emanuel Rackman and beloved mother of our esteemed member, Dr. Bennett Rackman. May the bereaved family be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob Reiner, Rabbi Joel Berkowitz, President
      