
        NEUBERGER-Marie Salant, 88, died on May 11th, 1997. Beloved wife of Roy R. Neuberger for nearly sixty-five years. Devoted mother of Ann Aceves, Roy S. and Linda Neuberger, and James Neuberger. Treasured grandmother of Andrea, Patricia and Matthew London, Sarah Lancry, Yaffa Jungreis and Miriam, Aharon and Nechama Neuberger, great-grandmother of seven. Cherished sister of Walter and Edna Salant and the late William Salant and his widow, Dorothy. Mrs. Neuberger was a past president of the Women's City Club of New York, former chairman of the Board of Governors of The Ethical Culture Schools for thirteen years and a member of the Board of Trustees of Bryn Mawr College, her alma mater. In lieu of flowers, a contribution to any of the above organizations would be appreciated. Graveside services were held at Mount Neboh Cemetery, Queens, on Monday, May 12. A memorial service will be announced.
        NEUBERGER-Marie Salant. The Board of Trustees and the entire Ethical Culture Fieldson Schools community note with great sadness the death of Marie Salant Neuberger, Fieldston Class of 1926 and parent of three graduates. Marie will be remembered for her wisdom, integrity, and loyal commitment to the founding mission of the schools. Over the years she was a forceful, energetic advocate who served the schools in many capacities, including: Chair of the Board of Governors, Co-Chair of the Tate Library Committee, and Honorary member of the Board of Trustees. We extend our condolences to her husband, Roy, her children Ann, Roy, and James, and her brother Walter S. Salant. Sara E. Nathan and S. Donald Sussman Co-Chairs, Board of Trustees Jeanne E. Amster, Director
        NEUBERGER-Marie S. Purchase College and the Trustees of the Purchase College Foundation express their deep sense of loss on the passing of their friend and benefactress, Marie S. Neuberger whose commitment to education and to the Arts are paralleled only by her beloved husband Roy R. Neuberger. Marie Neuberger always will be remembered for her graciousness, intelligence, independence, warmth and extraordinary generosity. We offer our profound sympathy and heartfelt condolences to our dearest friend Roy R. Neuberger and sons Roy S. Neuberger and James Neuberger and daughter Ann Aceves. Bill Lacy, Pres. Purchase College. Emily Grant, Chair, Purchase College Foundation
        NEUBERGER-Marie Salant. The Women's City Club of New York extends its profound sympathy on the death of Marie Neuberger to the Newberger family and indeed to all New Yorkers. Marie held many positions at the WCC, including the presidency, and was the only honorary president in our 82 year history. Her common sense, energy and refusals to accept the superficial have endeared her to the many organizations she participated in. Her passing is a loss to all of us. Peg Myerson, President
        NEUBERGER-Marie S. HINENI mourns the passing of Marie S. Neuberger, a woman of great integrity and impeccable ethics, whose love and concern for family touched the greater family of mankind. Our profound sympathy to her husband Roy Neuberger, Sr., her daughter Anne, her sons Roy and James Neuberger, and her many beautiful grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis, Pres. Barbara Janov, Executive Dir.
        NEUBERGER-Marie S. Purchase College Council gives it warmest sympathy to Roy R. Neuberger on the death of his beloved wife Marie. The Neuberger's were a team of strong supporters of Purchase College for many years and Marie always joined with her husband in the substantial gifts made to the College over a period of many years. We will miss her. Richard Maass, Chair, Purchase College Council
      