
        BENDHEIM - Charles Henry. Passed away Saturday, May 10, at his home in Jerusalem, Israel, and was interred there on May 11. He will be sorely missed by wife, sister, children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and by everyone he came in contact with. The family will sit shiva in Jerusalem until Tuesday evening, May 13; Fax 972-2-625-3843; email bendheim@inter.net.il. Thereafter, shiva will continue at 4680 Livingston Avenue, Riverdale, New York, through Friday, May 16.
        BENDHEIM-Charles. Ma'ayanot Yeshiva High School joins the Bendheim family in mourning the loss of a pillar of the Jewish community. May his legacy of Ahavat Torah, Am Yisrael and Eretz Yisrael bring comfort to his wife Els, children and grandchildren. Sheldon Chanales, President Esther Krauss, Principal
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. Charlie breathed his last in the city he loved, Jerusalem, surrounded by a family he loved and to the very last moment labored on behalf of the hospital he loved-Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem. His love was reciprocated one hundred fold by the people who were fortunate enough to have crossed his path during a lifetime complete with love of God, the Jewish people & an extraordinary family. He was faithful to the legacy of the Bendheim-Salamon families in his love for the many institutions that taught our tradition. He was the captain of our ship and his steady hand kept the course during the turbulent storms that threatened to engulf the Hospital with a Heart. We held fast to our captain as he stayed the course and brought us safely to harbor. For close to forty years and for the last twenty years as president of the American Committee, Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem became and was his full time career. He brought balance and wise counsel uniting us to build a medical center of world renown yet committed to the motto since its founding over 100 years ago -''we treat the patient; not the disease.'' He was a manhig par excellence. His wisdom and commitment to the sacred teachings of the founders of the hospital was the map he referred to in protecting a tradition that has survived the winds of time. No task was too daunting; whether traveling around the world to visit heart centers or children's hospitals in order to secure the best techniques and medical equipment for the Jesselson Heart Center and the Woman and Infant Center. His office at Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem was the magnet that drew the staff of the hospital to discuss their professional and personal problems, for Charlie was indeed a man of experience and good judgement. He was a father figure and we all felt, with Charlie at the helm, that we could weather every storm and ill wind. There was much yet to be done and we, upon hearing of his passing, have become momentarily bewildered and confused. It will take time to regroup but we will recall his words always delivered in a gentle manner, with a smile''yihyeh tov''-it will be good. Charlie, ''it will be good''; but it will take us longer and the uncertainty will not become certainty as quickly as when you were with us. We are engulfed with a profound sorrow and emptiness that leaves us bereft. Yet, we know that you labored since this illness visited you to ensure that the quality of healthcare for the people of Jerusalem would never be diminished. You made sure that we would be true to our mission: to reach out to assuage the pain of the afflicted and ensure our viability for the people of Jerusalem and the State of Israel. All of your life and with your holy work, you labored in the vineyard of the Lord to fulfill His command ''Verapo yerapeh.'' Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem will be a living tribute to you as long as the memory of man endures. There are not enough words in the human vocabulary to fully express our anguish but you in your foresight knew the angel of death would be victorious and prepared an extraordinary ''House of Healing'' to meet and face the future. Our heartfelt condolences to your beloved partner, Els, children, grandchildren and great grandchildren who were fashioned in the tradition of tzedaka and to be oskim betzarchey tzibur. Yours is a mesora that will be unbroken in the long chain of the Bendheim-Salamon families. May the Almighty who took you too soon, comfort your family, your cherished sister Gertrude Herlands Engelberg, our founder and generous supporter, and all of us who loved you, amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chairperson of the Board Sidney Adler, Treasurer International Board of Governors Menno Ratzker, Chairman William J. Lowenberg, Vice Chairman Morris Talansky, Exec Vice Chairman Lee Weinbach, Secretary and President of the Women's Division Prof. Jonathan Halevy, Director General Shlomo Sirkis, Associate Director General
        BENDHEIM-Charles Chaim. The Roshei Yeshiva Administration and Faculty of Beth Medrash Govoha, Lakewood, New Jersey, and its affiliated branches are deeply saddened by the loss of a dear friend & long-time supporter. He was the scion of an illustrious family whose parents Siegfried and Nannette Bendheim were early devoted friends and founding supporters of the illustrious founder of Beth Medrash Govoha, Hagaon Reb Ahron Kotler, of sainted memory. He joins his mother in dedicating the new Beth Medrash, built after Reb Ahron's passing in memory of his father, and completely furnished it with impeccable taste. It still serves as the beautiful main study hall and chapel of our institution. He also joined the small cadre of friends whose indomitable spirit and boundless energy ensured the survivor of the Yeshiva, as Hagaon Reb Schneur Kotler ''osm'', led the Yeshiva on to grow to be the leading center of Talmudic scholarship, a community of 2200 student scholars and a pioneer in learning outreach through its Community Kollels nationwide and abroad. This spirit and courage allowed him and his life-long partner in all his charities and endeavours Els, to relocate and build anew in Eretz Yisroel and particularly in Yerushalayim where he lived his golden years dedicated to Sharei Tzedek Hospital. He earns his eternal resting place in that holy city. Our sincere condolences to his wife Els, his sister Gertrude Herlands his children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. May his memory be a blessing as they continue in his ways and that of his spirit. Rabbi Aryeh Malkiel Kotler, Rosh Yeshiva Rabbi Y. J. Weisberg, Administrative Dean
        BENDHEIM-Charles. The American Friends of the Jerusalem College of Technology-Machon Lev mourns the death of its long time benefactor and President Emeritus. He was a righteous man in his generation and a role model for future generations. His role in building our institution was immense, his leadership and commitment to JCT and many others was unparalleled. Sincere condolences to his entire extended family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Yosef Bodenheimer, President Jerusalem College of Technology Eli Hoffman, President AFJCT Jonathan Feldstein, Executive Director
        BENDHEIM-Charles. Parents For Torah For All Children (P'TACH) mourns the passing of a committed and caring individual who helped open the doors of Yeshiva University High School to our Jewish learning disabled children, so that for the past two decades our children have been assured the education they are entitled to. Our condolences to his beloved wife, Els, and their beloved family. Rabbi Burton Jaffa, Exec. Director Steven B. Rothschild, President Dr. Joel Rosenshein, Founder-P'TACH Judah Weller, Educational Dir.
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. Under his devoted and philanthropic leadership as Chairman, the four Yeshiva University High Schools enjoyed its record enrollment in its glorious history. Heartfelt condolences to his Aishes Chail Els and to the entire family. To Judi, Jackie, Philip, Debra, Aviva, Edna all proud graduates of Yeshiva University High School during the Bendheim era. Rabbi David L. Weinbach Principal (Retired)
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of our member, Charles H. Bendheim. We extend profound condolences to his wife, Els, to his son and daughter-in-law, Jack and Giti, to all his children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. The Yeshivat Hakotel family mourns the passing of Charles Bendheim whose life was dedicated to his family, and the State of Israel. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mrs. Els Bendheim, Jack & Giti Bendheim, our alumnus Yonatan and the entire Bendheim family. May all be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Harav Aharon Bina Yeshivat Hakotel
        BENDHEIM-Charles. The West Side Jewish Community Mikvah mourns the passing of their founder, builder and supporter, Mr. Charles Bendheim. Together with his wife Else, he maintained the integrity and purity of generations of Jewish families. We, our children and our grandchildren are forever indebted to them. Elliot Gibber Denise Karasick Chairpeople
        BENDHEIM-Charles. MaTan, The Sadie Rennert Women's Institute for Torah Studies shares in the grief of Els, Jack, Giti and the entire Bendheim family in mourning the loss of Charles H. Bendheim. Leader and devoted friend. Lili Weil, Chairwoman of the Board Malke Bina, Educational Director
        BENDHEIM-Charles. Keren-Or, Jerusalem Center for Multi-Handicapped Blind Children mourns the passing of Charles Bendheim, esteemed member of our Board for many years. We will miss his wise and compassionate counsel. Edward L. Steinberg, Msc, Od, Board Chairman Albert Hornblass, MD, President
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. Yeshivat Sha'alvim deeply mourns the passing of a devoted friend and mentor who stood beside the founders and leadership of the Yeshiva in word and deed since its inception. Our heartfelt condolences to Els and the entire family. Hamakom Yenachemchem.
        BENDHEIM - Charles. Mentor, Leader and Friend. May his family be comforted by the memory of his leadership and his extraordinary accomplishments. Helen and Menno Ratzker.
      