
        GILLEN-Rose R., 85, a retired hospital administration specialist and civic volunteer, died at home in the Boulevard Gardens, Woodside, Queens, on May 29, 1997 after a long illness. The widow of the late Patrick A. Gillen, a former officer of Local 15 of the Operating Engineers and a well known professional boxer in the 1920's, she recently retired from Western Queens, Community Hospital following 32 years of service. During her 40 year career in hospital administration she was employed at Forest Hills General Hospital, Lexington Hospital, and Triborough Hospital. At Western Queens Community Hospital she was instrumental in the organization of the union and served as a Delegate to District 37. The daughter of James McPartland and Anna Whalen and the sister of the late Anne Dooley, she was born in Manhattan and raised in Queens. Mrs. Gillen was an original resident of the Boulevard Gardens where she organized Brownie Troop 207, was instrumental in the formation of the Cub Scout Pack 127, and served as the Leader of Girl Scout Troop 4-504. When two of her daughters were stricken in the polio epidemic of 1948 she became the Queens County Campaign Manager for the March of Dimes and she led the effort to readmit recovering polio victims into the public and parochial schools from which they had been banned. She is survived by four children: Neal P. Gillen, an attorney and trade association executive of Potomac, Maryland, Carol Gillen-Costello, the Principal of P.S. 161 in the Bronx, of Woodside; Rose Collins, a supervisory nurse, of Purdys, NY; and James R. Gillen, an attorney, of Marina Del Rey, California; a daughter Patricia Sutherland Dermody is deceased; eleven grandchildren and ten great grandchildren. A funeral mass will be celebrated 10:00 AM, June 2, 1997 at Corpus Christi Roman Catholic Church in Woodside followed by interment at Maple Grove Cemetery in Kew Gardens. Reposing at the Thomas M. Quinn & Sons Inc. F.H. Visting Saturday and Sunday 2-5 and 7-9:30.
      