
        ADLER-Kurt, PhD, M.D., on May 28, 1997 in New York City. The faculty and staff of The Alfred Adler Institute and The Alfred Adler Mental Health Center and Community Consultation Center as well as the students of the Institute, mourn the loss of our esteemed teacher and friend, loyal son of Alfred Adler, the internationally renowned founder of Individual Psychology. For 49 years in New York City, Dr. Kurt Adler was teacher and developer of his father's ideas and a servant of The Alfred Adler Institute of New York including time spent as Director of that Institute. Since the inception of the Alfred Adler Institute in 1948 by Dr. Kurt Adler, hundreds of psychoanalysts and psychotherapists have been trained. Dr. Adler will be remembered with gratitude and affection by his colleagues, students, patients and friends. Robert Ellenbogen, Ph.D., Director, Alfred Adler Institute of New York Barbara Berger, M.S. Director, Alfred Adler Mental Health Center
        ADLER-Kurt A., M.D., Ph.D. Lenox Hill Hospital mourns the loss of Kurt A. Adler, M.D., Ph.D., who joined our medical staff in 1948. Dr. Adler was an esteemed and invaluable senior member of our Department of Psychiatry. An exceptional practitioner and teacher, his significant contributions to the field of psychiatry are recognized worldwide. Dr. Adler, who exemplified the highest standards of his profession, leaves a remarkable legacy. We honor the memory of this dedicated and compassionate physician, and extend our deepest sympathies to his family. James S. Marcus, Chairman Board of Trustees Gladys George President and CEO Stephen A. Obstbaum, MD President, Medical Board
        ADLER-Kurt A., MD, Ph.D. We mourn the loss of our senior internationally known psychiatrist, Dr. Kurt A. Adler. A 40-year member of the staff of Lenox Hill Hospital, who practiced and lectured actively until his recent final illness, Dr. Adler set a standard in his field which will be difficult to emulate. He was respected as an outstanding intellectual, practitioner, and humanitarian. To his wife, Tanya, and his entire family, we express our deepest condolences. Michael S. Bruno, MD Director of Medicine Ira R. Hoffman, MD Associate Director of Medicine
      