
        RIFKIN-Dr. Harold. After a long illness. Adored husband to Bibi. Beloved father to Janet, Matthew, and Phyllis. Devoted grandfather to six wonderful grandsons. Funeral private. Memorial service to be announced at a later date.
        RIFKIN-Harold, MD. We at NYU Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of our colleague and dear friend, Dr. Harold Rifkin, Professor of Clinical Medicine. He was a giant among physicians who were the elite of clinical researchers and stood out as a leader in the academic community of scholars and researchers who contributed greatly to the advances of medicine by bringing the results of highly productive and imaginative laboratory results to the bedside. His numerous publications and his classic textbook on diabetes expanded our knowledge of the basic and clinical sciences related to diabetes which improved and prolonged the lives of many diabetics. To his many patients, he was a model personal physician. Dr. Rifkin was always supportive and compassionate to the individual patient as well as to their families. He was highly respected, admired and recognized worldwide by professional organizations as a leading clinician, researcher and teacher. He was the recipient of the most prestigious awards from medical schools and professional organizations and served as President of the American Diabetes Association. His students included medical students, residents, fellows and post graduate physicians. All benefited immensely from his teaching and considered him a role model par excellence. We have lost a great physician scientist of the golden era of medicine encompassing fifty years of clinical research. Harold Rifkin was a beloved husband to his loving wife of many years Bibi, and a wonderful father and grandfather. We express our deep sympathy to his spouse Bibi, son Matthew, daughters Janet and Phyllis and to his grandchildren. Laurence A. Tisch, Chairman Board of Trustees New York University L. Jay Oliva, President New York University Thomas S. Murphy, Chairman, Board of Trustees NYU Medical Center Saul J. Farber, MD, MACP Provost and Dean NYU Medical Center
        RIFKIN-Harold, M.D. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the death of Dr. Harold Rifkin, a leading light of clinical medicine who was a role model to students and fellow members of our faculty since our medical school was established in 1955. A clinical professor of medicine since 1963 and distinguished university professor emeritus since 1993, he was the first scientist to demonstrate the role of hypertension in diabetic renal disease. For the past 20 years, he was the principal consultant to our Diabetes Research and Training Center. He earned numerous honors for his contributions to diabetes teaching, clinical care and research, and we are proud that he made us his primary academic home. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife, Bibi, and the entire family. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers, Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dominick P. Purpura, M.D., Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        RIFKIN-Harold, M.D. The Department of Medicine of Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center mourn the passing of its Distinguished Professor. Dr. Rifkin was a pioneer in Diabetes Research and Care, and president of the American Diabetes Association. He authored hundreds of scientific papers and the most authoritative text book in Diabetes. He led the Department of Medicine at Montefiore through critical years. He was a teacher, mentor and role model for a generation of medical students, medical residents and post-doctoral fellows, and a counselor for numerous young faculty members. He was the catalyst and shepherd of our Diabetes Research and Training Center. All of our faculty and staff who benefited from Dr. Rifkin's counsel and friendship are saddened by his passing, and express heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife, Bibi and to all his family. James Scheuer, M.D. Chairman Joan I. Casey, M.D. Vice Chairman Milford Fulop, M.D. Vice Chairman
        RIFKIN-Harold, MD. The Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of Lenox Hill Hospital express their deep sorrow at the loss of Harold Rifkin, MD, Honorary Consulting Physician in the Department of Medicine. A distinguished endocrinologist who was highly regarded by his patients and peers alike, Dr. Rifkin made invaluable contributions to the understanding and treatment of diabetes. He was a brilliant diagnostician and a devoted physician who exemplified the highest standards of the medical profession. We honor the memory of this very special man and extend our deepest sympathies to his family. James S. Marcus, Chairman Board of Trustees Gladys George President and CEO Stephen A. Obstbaum, MD President, Medical Board Michael S. Bruno, MD Director of Medicine Ira R. Hoffman, MD Associate Director of Medicine
        RIFKIN-Harold, M.D. The Diabetes Research and Training Center at Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourns the passing of Dr. Harold Rifkin, one of the giant figures in the field of diabetes. He was a founding member of the Einstein Diabetes Center and served on its Executive Committee until his retirement. Dr. Rifkin's leadership and vision provided inspiration to three generations of scientists and clinicians not only in New York but around the world. His memory will remain a part of our heritage. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Bibi, and the entire Rifkin family. Norman Fleischer, M.D. Director
        RIFKIN-Harold, M.D. My doctor and our friend. Jacob and Bronka Weintraub
      