
        GURWIN-Rosalind. Beloved and devoted wife of Joseph. Adored and cherished mother of Laura Flug, Eric Gurwin, mother-in-law of Karen, twin sister of Murray Brizel, loving grandmother of Danielle, Jeffrey, Jason and Jaclyn. Services Tuesday, 12 noon, Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, corner Middle Neck Rd and Old Mill Rd. Contributions can be made in her name to the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center, PO Box 9017, Commack, NY 11725, or to the charity of your choice.
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York deeply mourn the passing of Rosalind Gurwin, wife of Joseph Gurwin, our former chairman of the board and one of our community's true giants in philanthropy and communal service. For many years, Mrs. Gurwin, a true partner with her husband, was an outstanding leader for UJA-Federation, and a strong supporter of both the New York and Palm Beach campaigns. She was active in the Women's Campaign and served with distinction as a member our of Board of Directors and Building Art Committee. Her philanthropic support extended to the Rosalind and Joseph Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center of Long Island, an outstanding beneficiary of UJA-Federation. Her compassion and devotion to helping those in need, both in New York and in Israel, will always be remembered. To her husband, Joseph, her son, Eric, and daughter-in-law, Karen, and daughter, Laura Flug, and grandchildren, and her entire family, we extend our deepest sympathies. Larry A. Silverstein, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. VP
        GURWIN-Rosalind. The Board of Governors and the members of the Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Rosalind, wife of our esteemed member, Joseph, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her family. BOARD OF GOVERNORS Buddy Martin President
        GURWIN-Rosalind. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved member and wife of Joseph, former Officer of our congregation. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        GURWIN-Rosalind. Dearest Ros, we will miss you so. A gracious lady-a warm, caring and wonderful friend. Our deepest sympathy to Joe, Laura and Eric. With love, Bernice and Sid Jacobson
        GURWIN-Rosalind. She taught us to live with compassion, goodness and generosity. Our condolences to the entire family. Shirley Katz and Benjamin Duhl
        GURWIN-Rosalind. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Roz, and extend sincere condolences to Joseph, Laura and Eric. Gertrude and Bennett
        GURWIN-Rosalind. Dear Roz-a gentle, kind, loving woman. We will miss you. Our love to Joseph and their family. Lola and Saul
      