
        NEUBERGER-Marie Salant, 88, died on May 11th, 1997. Beloved wife of Roy R. Neuberger for nearly sixty-five years. Devoted mother of Ann Aceves, Roy S. and Linda Neuberger, and James Neuberger. Treasured grandmother of Andrea, Patricia and Matthew London, Sarah Lancry, Yaffa Jungreis and Miriam, Aharon and Nechama Neuberger, great-grandmother of seven. Cherished sister of Walter and Edna Salant and the late William Salant and his widow, Dorothy. Mrs. Neuberger was a past president of the Women's City Club of New York, former chairman of the Board of Governors of The Ethical Culture Schools for thirteen years and a member of the Board of Trustees of Bryn Mawr College, her alma mater. In lieu of flowers, a contribution to any of the above organizations would be appreciated. Graveside services were held at Mount Neboh Cemetery, Queens, on Monday, May 12. A memorial service will be announced.
        NEUBERGER-Marie S. The Board of the Friends of the Neuberger Museum of Art deeply mourn the passing of Marie Salant Neuberger and extend our profound sympathy and condolences to founding benefactor and dear friend, Roy R. Neuberger, daughter Ann Aceves, sons Roy S. Neuberger and fellow Board Member James Neuberger & the entire Neuberger/Salant families. Her gracious manner and gentle nature belied a wealth of wisdom, strength of character and deep commitment to family values which she shared with the community through her abiding concern for public education and interest in the preservation and enhancement of the arts. We share the family's loss. Lucinda Gedeon, Director Neubeger Museum of Art Mary Beth Buck, Chair Friends of the Neuberger Museum
        NEUBERGER-Marie Salant. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Marie Salant Neuberger. She, with her husband, Roy R. Neuberger, and their family, have been longtime, devoted supporters of UJA-Federation. She improved many lives through her great generosity and active community involvement, which included serving on the board of trustees of one of our member agencies, the Mosholu-Montefiore Community Center. We extend our deepest sympathies to her husband, Roy; her children, Ann Aceves, Roy and Linda, and James; her brother, Walter Salant; her grandchildren; her greatgrandchildren; and the entire family. Larry A. Silverstein, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        NEUBERGER-Marie. The New York Society for Ethical Culture records with deepest sorrow the death of our devoted member on May 11, 1997. Mrs. Neuberger, a woman of remarkable intellectual curiosity and dedicated service to worthy causes, joined the Society in 1949. Mrs. Neuberger was a graduate of the Ethical Culture Schools, Chair of the Board of Governors, a devoted volunteer in the Ethical Culture Schools, and a committed advocate for excellence in the public schools. We extend our sympathy to her husband, Roy, her children Ann, Roy, James and her grandchildren and great grandchildren. Don Johnson, Senior Leader Judith Wallach, President Trustees & Staff of the New York Society for Ethical Culture
        NEUBERGER-Marie. Our deepest sympathy to the Neuberger family upon the loss of Marie Neuberger, devoted wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. With her kindness and generosity she was a mainstay of our student scholarship fund. All that she did was done with modesty, dignity and warmth. Her presence will sorely be missed. May the Almighty comfort the entire family among the mourners in Zion. Rabbi Jacob Jungreis, Director Yeshiva Ateres Yisroel of Canarsie
        NEUBERGER-Marie Salant. The Alumni Executive Board of the Ethical Culture Fieldston Schools mourns the death of Marie Salant Neuberger, Class of 1926. She set an example of leadership that spans many years and we will miss her. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband Roy R. Neuberger, to her brother Walter Salant, to her children Ann Aceves, Roy S. and Linda Neuberger and James Neuberger and to her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Dorothy Merlo Prodani '72 Chair Alumni Executive Board
        NEUBERGER-Marie Salant. The Women's City Club of New York extends its profound sympathy on the death of Marie Neuberger to the Neuberger family and indeed to all New Yorkers. Marie held many positions at the WCC, including the presidency, and was the only honorary president in our 82 year history. Her common sense, energy and refusal to accept the superficial have endeared her to the many organizations she participated in. Her passing is a loss to all of us. Peg Myerson, President
        NEUBERGER - Marie. The Trustees and the staff of The American Federation of Arts mourn the passing of Marie Neuberger, philanthropist, educator and great art lover, and extend heartfelt condolences to her husband, Roy Neuberger, President Emeritus and long-time benefactor of the AFA. Roy and Marie have been an integral part of the AFA family for half a century, she will be much missed. Robert M. Meltzer, Chairman Jan P. Mayer, President Serena Rattazzi, Director
      