
        WEINGARTEN-Leonard A., M.D. On May 2, 1997. Beloved husband of Joan; loving father of Leslie (Scott) Singer and Mark (Nancy Greenstein) Weingarten; cherished grandfather of Jordan Taylor Singer; devoted son of Dr. Michael and Beatrice Weingarten; dear brother of Muriel (Sam) Dachs. Service today Sunday, May 4, 3:30 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Contributions to Beth Israel Hospital in his memory would be appreciated.
        WEINGARTEN-Leonard A., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with profound sadness the passing of our longtime friend and devoted colleague, Leonard A. Weingarten, M.D., a member of the Beth Israel medical staff for almost 40 years. An expert in the field of gastroenterology, Dr. Weingarten will be remembered for his devotion to his patients. During his distinguished career, he made many contributions to Beth Israel, serving as president of the Medical Board, as well as chairman or member of numerous Medical Board or Medical Center committees. His father, Michael Weingarten, M.D., has been a member of the medical staff for almost 70 years, and also served as president of its Medical Board. To his wife Joan, his parents Beatrice and Michael, his children Leslie and Mark, his sister Muriel, the entire Weingarten family and all who loved him, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Board of Trustees Robert G. Newman, M.D. President Thomas Killip, M.D. Executive Vice President Medical Affairs Jerome S. Breslaw, M.D. President, Medical Board Sidney Stein, M.D. President, Doctors Alumni Association
        WEINGARTEN-Leonard A., M.D. The physicians and staff of the Department of Medicine of Beth Israel Medical Center are deeply saddened at the passing of our beloved friend and colleague, Leonard A. Weingarten, M.D. He will be greatly missed by all whose lives were touched by his compassion and his commitment to patient care. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Joan, his parents Beatrice and Michael Weingarten, M.D., the entire Weingarten family and all his loved ones. Stephen G. Baum, M.D. Chairman Department of Medicine
        WEINGARTEN-Leonard, M.D. To Joan and your loved ones-we will miss Leonard always, remembering his wonderful cooking, sense of humor, knowledge of so much, and love of family, garden, books and the Connecticut retreat. Our friend, colleague, partner-a loss to all, much too soon. Peace, dear Len. Alice, Mort, Eric, Vicki and Dave
      