
        BENDHEIM - Charles Henry. Passed away Saturday, May 10, at his home in Jerusalem, Israel, and was interred there on May 11. He will be sorely missed by wife, sister, children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and by everyone he came in contact with. The family will sit shiva in Jerusalem until Tuesday evening, May 13; Fax 972-2-625-3843; email bendheim@inter.net.il. Thereafter, shiva will continue at 4680 Livingston Avenue, Riverdale, New York, through Friday, May 16.
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a longtime friend, a distinguished philanthropist and communal leader, a Benefactor who with his wife Els, served on YU's Board of Trustees for over three decades and was Honorary Board Chairman of our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. A hands-on leader, he was RIETS Board Chairman 197786 and YU High Schools Board Chairman 1963-79, and he guided those institutions with great vision during periods of significant growth. He was instrumental in the establishment of the Brooklyn predecessor of our Samuel H. Wang YU High School for Girls and, with his late mother, Nannette, endowed RIETS' Siegfried Bendheim Memorial Fellowship honoring his father. Later this month he was to be presented with a YU honorary doctor of humane letters degree for his many years of outstanding service. We extend heartfelt condolences to children, Dr. Judi (and Rabbi Harris) Gedalia, Jack C. (and Dr. Giti B.) Bendheim, Philip E. (and Donna) Bendheim, Debra (and Rabbi Barry L.) Eisenberg, Aviva (and Marvin) Sussman, Edna (and Aver) Zussman, and Karen (and Dr. William) Levine; sister, Mrs. Gertrude Herlands Engelberg; grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Judah Feinerman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees Elliot Gibber, Chairman YUHS
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. As your business associate for over fifty years, I will have you in my heart and thoughts every day for the rest of my life. Although our life styles and personalities were different, you always afforded me and my family great affection, respect and encouragement that I will never forget. You generously supported our charitable endeavors along with so many others. I offer my solace to your devoted wife Els, your loving sister Gertrude, your older son Jack, whom I work closely with now, and the rest of your children, grandchildren & great grandchildren. You were a great humanitarian and will leave a great void in the Jewish community. I miss you, Charles. Carrie and Murray Bock
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. As an industrialist, he combined new world skills and technology with old world grace and charm to build an international reputation in the chemical industry. As a philanthropist, his vision, leadership and determination made possible the accomplishments that remain his lasting monument. The Jewish Community has lost an energetic leader who together with his wife, Els, founded, built and expanded many institutions in the U.S. and Israel. We mourn the loss of a dear friend whose loyalty and counsel will always be remembered. To his wife, his children, grandchildren and great grandchildren, we offer our deepest condolences. Golenbock, Eiseman, Assor & Bell
        BENDHEIM-Charles. The Mesivta of Long Beach, with profound sorrow, mourns the loss of Mr. Charles Bendheim, of blessed memory, our long-time supporter and dear friend. An esteemed and loyal champion of Jewish education, his deep love and respect for Torah and Chesed causes will long be remembered. Our heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife, Els, who shared in his many praise worthy endeavors and his loving children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. May the entire family be comforted and spared from further sorrow. HaRav Yitzchok Feigelstock Rosh HaYeshiva Rabbi Shlomo Lesin Executive Vice President
        BENDHEIM-Charles. The American Friends of the Jerusalem College of Technology-Machon Lev mourns the death of its long time benefactor and President Emeritus. He was a righteous man in his generation and a role model for future generations. His role in building our institution was immense, his leadership and commitment to JCT amd many others was unparalleled. Sincere condolences to his entire extended family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Yosef Bodenheimer, President Jerusalem College of Technology Eli Hoffman, President AFJCT Jonathan Feldstein, Executive Director
        BENDHEIM-Charles. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of its distinguised benefactor Charles Bendheim, renowned Jewish communal leader and philanthropist. Our sincere condolences to his beloved and devoted wife Els, recipient of NJOP's New Horizons Award in February 1997 his children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and the entire family. His imprint on the Jewish community, both in the US and in Israel will be everlasting. Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchwald, Dir.
        BENDHEIM-Charles. The Berkshire Bank, its Board of Directors, officers and staff, mourn the passing of a dear friend. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Bendheim family, and most especially to Els, his beloved wife, and to his son, Jack, our friend and Board Member. Mr. Bendheim's wisdom, friendship and charisma will be missed by us all. Oded Aboodi Chairman of the Board Moses Krausz President
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. The Trustees and Staff of the Riverdale YM-YWHA mourn the passing of the beloved father of our trustee and benefactor, Jack C. Bendheim. Our sincere condolences to Els, Jack, Giti and to all of his children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. May they find comfort in the love of their friends and the greatness of Charles' life. Harry M. Feder, president Diane Rubin, executive director
        BENDHEIM-Charles. The Pardes Institude of Jewish Studies and the American Pardes Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Charles Bendheim, a great leader in the Jewish community. May his legacy act as a source of inspiration to all those whom he touched. Our profound sympathy and sincere condolences to the family. Rabbi Danny Landes, Director Selig Sacks, President Libby Werthan, Chairperson
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. A bright light in our lives has been extinguished. His courage, indomitable spirit, boundless energy, effervescent humor and unfailing faith and optimism is his legacy to us all. Our love and heartfelt condolences to our Mother, Els, Judy, Jack, Debbie, Aviva, Philip, Edna, Karen, their spouses and grandchildren. Jim, Joyce, Andrew, Tiffany, Jill and Alana Herlands
        BENDHEIM-Charles. Young Israel of Long Beach extends deepest condolences to his entire family. Dr. Chaim A. Wakslak, Rabbi Joseph Langer, President
        BENDHEIM-Charles. For the great joy and inspiration he brought into our lives, we grieve with the family for the passing of our dear friend Charles Bendheim. Pat and Manny Gantz and Family
      