
        ROSENSHEIN-Carol Judith. Beloved and devoted wife of Bernard, adored and cherished mother of Lisa, Michele and Julie, daughter of Louis Kane, niece of Sylvia Kahan, mother-in-law of Mark Todes, friend of Maltese Reggie, honored member of her community. Services: Wednesday, May 7, 1997, 1 P.M., at Beth El Synagogue, 1324 North Ave, New Rochelle. Carol was a woman who touched everyone she knew in deep and personal ways. She was uniquely empathetic & generous. Her insight, intelligence, honesty, and sensitivity were evident in all facets of her life. Carol served as Executive Director of the Mamaroneck Beach and Yacht Club for over 15 years. She held a degree in design from the New York Institute of Design, a master's in elementary education from Yeshiva University and a Bachelor of Arts in History from Brandeis University. She will also be remembered for her charitable work with Hadassah, the UJA Federation & the American Cancer Society. With deep sadness and respect, her family & friends will be sitting Shiva at the home she shared with her husband, 35 Kenilworth Rd in Harrison from Wednesday, May 7 through Monday, May 12. Contributions to the Carol J. Rosenshein Memorial Cancer Research Fund at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine are deeply appreciated.
        ROSENSHEIN-Carol Judith. The Board of Governors, members and staff of Mamaroneck Beach & Yacht Club, express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Carol Rosenshein, who was our Executive Director, wife of our esteemed President of the Board of Governors-Bernard Rosenshein, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her entire family. Board of Governors Mamaroneck Beach & Yacht Club
        ROSENSHEIN-Carol. Dearest Carol, we were blessed with the gift of your friendship for over four decades. Our feelings of great loss at your sudden passing are beyond measure. We will treasure all our wonderful memories forever. Our deepest sympathy to Bernard, Lisa and Mark, Michele, Julie, your Dad, Aunt Sylvia and the Krantz family. With love, Phyllis and Irwin Margolin
        ROSENSHEIN-Carol. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, its Sisterhood and Couples Club mourn the passing of the beloved mother of their devoted member Lisa Todes and extend their heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Fred Distenfeld, Pres.
      