
        ENGEL-Irving H. Our sturdiest pillar of strength has fallen. Temple Israel of Long Beach, together with its Sisterhood, mourns the loss of our President Emeritus, past President, Trustee and member of more than 50 years. His inner beauty, strength and wisdom guided this institution throughout this entire time. Together with his wife, Rose, past President of our Sisterhood, he inspired generations to share their love of Temple, Torah, and Judaism. Their generosity and commitment as well as those of their children, Sandor and Susan, Maynard and Sally, Ellen and Jean-Marie will never be forgotten. The memory of Irving H. Engel is a blessing to all who were privileged to have known him. Our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Rose, and the entire family. Jacob Chiger, Rabbi Karl S. Kritz, Cantor Mark I. Samuels, Bruce A. Sklover Co-Presidents Mollie Consor, Sisterhood Pres.
        ENGEL-Irving H. The Board of Trustees of Long Beach Medical Center records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague and past President, Irving H. Engel. For more than 40 years, he served this medical center and the patients in our care, with dignity, wisdom and a strong commitment to help those less fortunate than himself. He was a tireless volunteer for the medical center, guiding its growth and helping to forge its vision for the future. His strength of character was a model for all of us to emulate. Our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife Rose, his children, his grandchildren and the entire Engel family. We are all diminished by his loss. Alfred I. Osterland, Chairman, Board of Trustees Bernard Kennedy, President, Board of Trustees Martin F. Nester, Jr., Chief Executive Officer
        ENGEL-Irving H. The medical staff of Long Beach Medical Center is saddened by the demise of Irving H. Engel, a past President of our institution. His expertise in medical staff relations was legend. He fostered cooperative relationships between the Board of Trustees and the medical staff that resulted in a harmonious union. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, Rose, and all his family. Mordecai Bluth, M.D, Chairman, Medical Staff Paul Schulster, M.D., President, Medical Board ENGEL-Irving H. The auxilians, volunteers and employees of Long Beach Medical Center mourn the loss of Irving H. Engel. He was a champion of all who volunteer and work for his hospital and was a good friend to all of us. We will miss him greatly. Douglas L. Melzer, Chief Operating Officer Gloria Nicolosi, President, Medical Center Auxiliary Jane Rooney, Director of Volunteers ENGEL-Irving. The partners of H.J. Behrman & Company, LLP, mourn the loss of our client of 87 years (1910), Irving Engel. He was a unique individual, a philanthropist, a leader of his community and an example for all of us. Louis Levy will especially miss his friendship and guidance. Our condolences to his wife Rose and family members.
      