
        STONE-J. Jacques, on May 6th, in his 90th year. The good times will always be remembered by his wife Janet, by his beloved children Toni & Freeman Shore, and Carol and Alan Pomerantz; and by his adored grandchildren Peter and Julie Strauss & Michael Romano. Services on Thursday, 12 Noon, Central Synagogue, 55th St. and Lexington Ave. For those wishing to make a contribution in his memory, donations to The Stone Family Fund, 22 E. 40th St, NYC 10016, would be appreciated.
        STONE-J. Jacques. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors & Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of J. Jacques Stone, who, with boundless energy and enthusiasm, helped strengthen the CollegeInstitute & the Reform Movement, providing resources critical to their growth and continuing development. His deep attachment to, and knowledge of Judaism were manifested in his personal and professional commitments throughout his life. He was an alumnus of the New York School of Education of the CollegeInstitute and served as a loyal and long-time member of its New York Board of Overseers and Dean's Council. His wisdom, pragmatism and devotion were invaluable to the leadership of the College-Institute. To his beloved Janet and their family, we extend our heartfelt sympathies. May Jacques' memory be a blessing. May God comfort you among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman, Pres. Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Burton Lehman, Chairman Board of Governors
        STONE-J. Jacques. It is with deep sorrow that the officers, Board of Directors and staff of HIAS note the passing of J. Jacques Stone, a HIAS board member since 1982 and an active member of the scholarship comittee. To Janet his wife, his children and grandchildren, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Norman D. Tilles, President Martin A. Wenick, Executive Vice President
        STONE-J. Jacques. We mourn the death of J. Jacques Stone, a respected benefactor of the Institute for Child, Adolescent & Family Studies, and the beloved father of Carol Stone Pomerantz, MSW, an esteemed faculty member and Trustee of our Board. We extend deepest sympathy to the family. Ava L. Siegler, Ph.D., Director, ICAFS
        STONE-J. Jacques. The New York Board of Rabbis mourns the passing of its long-time supporter and treasurer of its Advisory Council. May Heaven comfort his mourners. Rabbi Alvin Kass, President Rabbi Gilbert S. Rosenthal, Executive Vice President Mortimer Propp, President Advisory Council
        STONE-J. Jacques. The Women of Central Synagogue Sisterhood mourn the death of the beloved husband of our esteemed Board Member Janet. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Susan Bayer and Audrey Zucker Co-Presidents
      