
        STONE-J. Jacques, on May 6th, in his 90th year. The good times will always be remembered by his wife Janet, by his beloved children Toni & Freeman Shore, and Carol and Alan Pomerantz; and by his adored grandchildren Peter and Julie Strauss & Michael Romano. Services on Thursday, 12 Noon, Central Synagogue, 55th St. and Lexington Ave. For those wishing to make a contribution in his memory, donations to The Stone Family Fund, 22 E. 40th St, NYC 10016, would be appreciated.
        STONE-J. Jacques. Central Synagogue mourns with tremendous sorrow the passing of our past president J. Jacques Stone. A precious man who embodied the life, history and soul of Central Syngogue, he was an extraordinary friend to all members, clergy and professionals. Jacques always had time to listen to us all. His gentleness was persuasive and genuine. Though just months short of 90 years, he lived with full energy and vitality. As one who respected history, Jacques understood the need for change and embraced it with deep understanding and appreciation for the passage of time. He loved Judaism. He loved the Jewish people and he was passionate about our synagogue. From his early years, he was a leader-as the founder of a young couples group, a member of Brotherhood, a member of the Board of Trustees and as President, he was continously engaged in an institutional life. J. Jacques Stone was among the greats of our generation. He will forever be a blessing and we will miss him. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President Bernie Silverman and Richard Kandel Brotherhood Presidents
        STONE-J. Jacques. The Jewish Braille Institute of America and the blind, visually impaired and reading disabled whom we serve mourn the loss of a beloved Honorary Life Trustee whose keen insight, compassion and dedication added strength to our worldwide programs in their behalf. Our hearts go out to his wife Janet and other family members and friends who will miss the goodness and warmth of his caring personality. Through his many inspiring deeds he truly chose ''to light a candle of understanding that shall not be put out.'' Selma Shavitz, President Dr. Jane Evans, Honorary President Gerald M. Kass, Executive Vice President
        STONE-J. Jacques. The Directors and Staff of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York record with profound sorrow the death of J. Jacques Stone. Jacques was a loyal and active Board member for close to fifty years and served as president of BJE from 1965 to 1968. His friendship and the wisdom of his council will be missed. Our sincerest condolences to his wife Janet and the entire family. Philip Schatten President David Mann Executive Vice President Stephen A. Kramer Chairman of the Board
        STONE-J. Jacques. The leadership of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations mourns the death of a cherished Honorary Trustee. Jack served the cause of Reform Judaism for many years and in almost every facet of our doing. He gave of himself and his manifold talents with a caring heart and selfless devotion. We express deepest condolences to his loving wife, Janet, his daughters and all his loved ones. Jerome H. Somers, Chairman Rabbi Eric H. Yoffie, President Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler President-Emeritus
        STONE-J. Jacques. The Officers, Board and staff of the National Federation of Temple Brotherhoods and the Jewish Chautauqua Society mourn the sudden loss of their esteemed chancellor and past president, J. Jacques Stone. The Reform movement has lost a giant leader and we have lost a friend. Our deepest sympathies go out to his loving wife, Janet and family.
        STONE-Jack. To Janet and the entire Stone family we mourn with you on the passing of our beloved friend, Jack. Gloria and Jerry Strumpf
        STONE-J. Jacques. A man who touched many lives. He will be missed but never forgotten. Muriel Mutterperl
      