
        FOX-James Monroe. On May 16, 1997. Retired Assistant Director F.B.I. in charge of NY Office. A graduate of Augustana College and University of Illinois Law School. A resident of NYC and Carmel Valley, CA. Beloved husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Sandra Cerdan and Tracey Van Every. Loving grandfather of Tyler James Van Every and Colton Monroe Cerdan. Dear brother of Patricia Owsley. A service and celebration of his life will be held on Wednesday, May 21, at 10:30 AM, in the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, 5th Avenue at 55th Street, NYC. In lieu of flowers, a contribution in his memory to one of the following charities would be appreciated: The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, 9176 Alternate A1A-Suite 100, Lake Park, FL 33403, Guiding Light for the Blind, 611 Granite Springs Road, Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, or the Health Care Chaplaincy, 307 East 60th St, NY, NY 10022.
        FOX-James M. The Board of Trustees, the President, faculty and students of the New York College of Podiatric Medicine and the Foot Clinics of New York mourn the loss of their valued trustee, James M. Fox. Jim was supportive, generous and dedicated. We will miss his warmth and gracious spirit. It was a rare privilege to know him. We extend heartfelt sympathies to his family. Martin Mussman, DPM Chairman, Board of Trustees Louis L. Levine, Pres and CEO NY College of Podiatric Medicine and the Foot Clinics of NY
        FOX-Jim. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Jim Fox, on May 16, 1997. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Wednesday, May 21st at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church at 10:30AM. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean Pierre Trebot, Exec Dir
        FOX-James M. We mourn the passing of James M. Fox, esteemed member of the Board of Directors of the Citizens Crime Commission of NYC, Inc. His strong leadership and wise counsel will be deeply missed. Gary A. Beller, Chairman Thomas A. Reppetto, President The Directors and Staff, Citizens Crime Commission, Inc. of New York City
        FOX-James. It is with our deepest sorrow and regret that The Centurion Foundation mourns the passing of our esteemed Board Member James Fox. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his family. The Centurion Foundation Board of Directors
      