
        PERLMAN-Sidney. On May 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Claire. Devoted father of James and Ariane Mindling, Toni and Stuart Young and John and Maxine Perlman and loving grandfather of Mitchell, Ann, Betsy, Sam and Natasha. He was President of Adams & Co Real Estate. He was very active in Jewish causes, particularly UJA-Federation and Israel Bonds; a man who loved his family and friends and was always ready to help them. Service will be held on Wednesday, May 28th at 12:30 PM, at Boulevard Chapel in Hewlett, L.I. In lieu of flowers the family would appreciate contributions to UJA-Federation or the Samuel Field YM-YWHA.
        PERLMAN-Sidney. It is with a heavy heart that the officers, leadership and staff of UJA-Federation note the passing of Sidney Perlman, husband of Claire Perlman, both long-time and major supporters of our Long Island Campaign. A true humanitarian, Mr. Perlman has worked tirelessly on behalf of the Jewish people and land of Israel with extraordinary commitment and leadership. Mr. Perlman is a distinguished member of UJA-Federation's South Shore Executive Committee in the Five Towns community. Mr. and Mrs. Perlman are also generous supporters of the Samuel Field/Bay Terrace YM-YWHA, a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation, where Mrs. Perlman serves as Vice President. Mr. Perlman will be sorely missed. To his wife, Claire; to their children and grandchildren; and to the entire Perlman family, we extend our deepest sympathy. Larry A. Silverstein, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Arlene Wittels, L.I. Chairman Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        PERLMAN-Sidney. The Staff and Board of Directors of the Samuel Field YM & YWHA mourn the loss of Sidney Perlman, beloved husband of Claire Field Perlman, our devoted Board Member and benefactor. Together as husband and wife they have carried forth the commitment to community service established by our founders, Helen and Samuel Field. They have been an unwavering source of inspiration and support for all of us. We extend our sincere and heartfelt sympathy to our dear Claire and her family. William Frumkin, President Walter Bregman, Chairman of the Board Steven Goodman, Executive VP
        PERLMAN-Sidney. It is with deep sorrow and a sense of profound loss, that we record the passing of our much admired and much loved chairman of the board for over 40 years. He was a visionary and an inspiration to all of us and we were all privileged to have worked with him. He will be truly missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his beloved wife Claire and to his children and grandchildren. The employees of Adams & Co., Real Estate
        PERLMAN-Sidney. With sadness and a deep sense of loss we accept the passing of a courtly, most distinguished presence. His devotion to family, his business accumen, his dedication to charitable causes will always be an inspiration to all who knew him. Our sincere condolonces to Claire, his children and grandchildren and the entire Perlman family. Martin and Harriet Radwell
        PERLMAN-Sidney. The partners of the Arsenal Company wish to extend deepest sympathy to Claire and the children. Sidney was a kind, loving, caring soul with a great sense of humor and a smile for all. ''May his memory be for blessing.'' The Roaman Family
        PERLMAN-Sidney. We mourn the loss of our cherished member and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Evelyn Maltman, President
        PERLMAN-Sidney. We deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend, Sidney Perlman. Our heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. The Feil Organization
      