
        BENDHEIM - Charles Henry. Passed away Saturday, May 10, at his home in Jerusalem, Israel, and was interred there on May 11. He will be sorely missed by wife, sister, children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and by everyone he came in contact with. The family will sit shiva in Jerusalem until Tuesday evening, May 13; Fax 972-2-625-3843; email bendheim@inter.net.il. Thereafter, shiva will continue at 4680 Livingston Ave., Riverdale, NY, through Friday, May 16.
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the passing of its devoted member, former Trustee and Honorary Trustee, and extends deepest sympathy to his family. Dennis B. Freilich, M.D., President
        BENDHEIM-Charles. The Faculty, Officers and Board of Manhattan Day School/Yeshiva Ohr Torah express their deep sense of loss on the passing of a giant in the Jewish community world-wide, Mr. Charles Bendheim, a founder of our school, long time President, Honorary Chairman, parent and grandparent. Our sincere condolences to his beloved wife, Els; his children, Aviva and Marvin Sussman, Debbie and Barry Eisenberg, Edna and Aver Zussman, Jack and Gitty Bendheim, Judy and Harris Gedalia, Karen and Bill Levine, and Philip and Donna Bendheim; his grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and the entire family. May they all be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. George Karasick President Elliot Gibber Chairman of the Board Rabbi David Kaminetsky Principal
        BENDHEIM - Charles. S/A/R Academy mourns the passing of our friend and generous benefactor. Sympathies are extended to his beloved wife, Els, and to his son Jack, President of S/A/R Academy Board of Trustees and daughter-in-law Giti, and to all of his children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. May the entire family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ludwig Bravmann Vice Chairman, Board of Trustees Bernard M. Weiner, M.D. Chairman, Executive Committee
        BENDHEIM - Charles. Bachurei Chemed of Long Beach, along with the entire Long Beach Jewish community is greatly saddened at the passing of our founder and Chairman of the Board, Charles Bendheim, A.H. May his family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yitzchok Frankel, Rabbi Gary Frechter, President Ruben Gober, President, Juniors Nettie Wertheimer, Ladies of Bach
        BENDHEIM-Charles. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and neighbor. He embodied all that is good and taught us that there is always more Tikun Olam to do. Charlie touched our lives in countless ways and we will carry him in our hearts forever. We pray that his beloved wife, Els, and the entire family finds comfort in the mourners of Zion. The entire Bellin family
        BENDHEIM-Charles H. Lincoln Square Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member and benefactor, Charles H. Bendheim, beloved husband of our devoted member, Els Bendheim. Together with his family, he provided vision and support for our congregation. His dreams and accomplishments are their heritage. Adam Mintz, Rabbi Richard Kestenbaum, President
        BENDHEIM-Charles. As we mourn the death of our beloved friend, Charles Bendheim, we also celebrate his fully realized life. It was a profound privilege to have known him. We join with Els and the entire family in remembering an extraordinary man. The Landowne Family
      