
        PICA-Marissa Ann, Assistant Director of Critical Care Nursing at The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died of breast cancer on June 5, 1997. Born in Waterbury, CT., she was 36 years old. Marissa graduated from Mount St. Mary's College, Newburgh, NY, in May 1983, cum laude, with a B.S. in Nursing and received her Masters of Science in Nursing from Hunter Bellevue Graduate School with a 4.0 GPA. She began her elite nursing career in June, 1983 at The NY HospitalCornell Medical Center and in 1992 she was promoted to Assistant Director of Critical Care Nursing. Marissa chaired the Major Modernization Critical Care Multi-Disciplinary Task Force for the move into the newly constructed pavilion at The New York Hospital. She was President of the NYC Chapter of AACN from 1995 to 1996, during which time she presented ''The Role of Patient Care Technician'' at The National Teaching Institute Critical Care Conference. As a recognized leader in the field of critical care nuring, Marissa was a guest speaker at various conferences and hospitals. She was named in Who's Who in American Nursing, 1996-1997. As a member of Mensa, Marissa typified the Society's own description of a member as ''someone with a good sense of humor who likes to talk!'' The tremendous respect, admiration and love of her peers, colleagues and especially family, will always be one of Marissa's greatest legacies. She is survived by her mother Jennie Pica of Waterbury, CT. and father Vincent Pica of Southbury, CT. and sisters Barbara Gervase-Claffey of NYC and Pattie Pica-Fitzgerald of Santa Monica, CA, as well as many beloved and close friends. Friends may call at Maiorano Funeral Home at 95 Willow St, Waterbury, CT, Sunday, June 8, 3-8PM. A mass will be celebrated at Our Lady of Mount Carmel, Monday, June 9th. at 9:00AM.
        PICA-Marissa Ann. The New York Hospital and its Division of Nursing are deeply saddened by the loss of our beloved friend and colleague, Marissa Ann Pica, R.N., Assistant Director for Critical Care Nursing. Her superior skills as well as her devotion and compassion for critically ill patients exemplified professionalism and made her a role model for nursing. We will miss her gentle smile and warm heart, and we join with all of those who knew and loved her in mourning her passing. Our deepest sympathies are extended to her family. David B. Skinner, M.D., President & CEO, The New York Hospital Kathryn Martin, Sr. Vice President/COO Doris Glick Vice President, Nursing
      