
        KOVEN-Irving. On June 5, 1997. Beloved husband of Esther, revered father of Cory, Jay and his wife Juliet, adoring grandfather of Belle, Robbie, Willie and Rose, loving brother of Eleanor Magid and devoted uncle to Ken, Karen and Sabrina Magid. We will cherish his memory always. Services will be held Monday 11:15am at Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam and West 76 St, New York. Burial will take place at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, New Jersey. In lieu of baskets the family has requested that donations may be made in Irving's memory to the JCC Capital Development Fund, 371 South Broadway, Tarrytown, NY 10591 for the building of their new family community center.
        KOVEN-Irving. The officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of a member of its prestigious President's Club and longtime leader of its Real Estate Division and Architects, Designers and Builders Division. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Esther, his sons Cory and Jay and the entire family. Gideon Patt, President Burton P. Resnick Nat'l Campaign Chairman Irwin Hochberg Greater New York Chairman Peter S. Kalikow, Chairman of the Corporate & Professional Division Howard Hirsch, Chairman of Real Estate & Construction Division
        KOVEN-Irving. Farewell to our best friend Irving whose love, caring and devotion along with his zest for life will remain with us forever. Our sincerest condolences to Esther, Cory, Jay, Ellie and Ken and all the family. Rest well, dear friend. Lois, Stanley, Joanne and Mark
        KOVEN-Irving. The staff of Ambassador Construction mourns the loss of our President and Founder, Irving Koven. He founded Ambassador almost forty years ago and stamped it with his personal imprint of quality and integrity, providing leadership and support to a growing, vital organization. His humanity, compassion and genuine goodness earned him the respect, affection and loyalty of all who had the good fortune to work with him. From his abilty to get us to learn, improve and take responsibility in our professional and personal lives grew an inspired and dedicated company, striving toward excellence always and left us each with a road map for success. He was a staunch supporter of many charitable causes and a respected leader in his business world. We are all better for having known him and thank Esther, Cory, Jay, Juliet, his sister Ellie and Ken and Karen for sharing him with us. We will miss you, Irving. The Ambassador Family
      