
        LEVIN-Jonathan. The officers, leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jonathan Levin. A beloved teacher whose dedication inspired many young people, he will long be remembered by all those whose lives he touched. His father, Gerald Levin, a generous supporter and active member of UJA-Federation's Entertainment & Music Industries division, is an outstanding leader in the New York community and a force for improving the quality of life for the less fortunate. We extend our deepest sympathies to Jerry and Barbara Levin, Carol Levin, the entire family, and to all those who cared for this special young man. Larry A. Silverstein, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Edward Bleier & Marty Pompadur Co-chairs, Entertainment & Music Division Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        LEVIN-Jonathan. On behalf of the Board and staff of Citymeals-onWheels, we would like to express our sincerest condolences to the family of Jonathan Levin whose untimely death is tragic beyond words. His parents have been warm and generous to Citymealson-Wheels and our thoughts are with them. Gael Greene Chairman Preston Robert Tisch President Marcia Stein Executive Director
        LEVIN-Jonathan. We mourn the untimely and tragic death of Jonathan and extend our deepest condolences to Gerald Levin, dear friend of the Solomon Schechter School of Westchester and to his entire family. A teacher has an affect on eternity, for his work and influence continue for countless generations. May the memory of Jonathan be for a blessing to his family, friends and students. M. Mac Schwebel, President Board of Trustees Solomon Schechter School of Westchester
        LEVIN-Jonathan. The Officers, Trustees and Staff of the Greater New York Councils Boy Scouts of America express our deepest sympathy to Mr. and Mrs. Gerald M. Levin on the loss of their dear son Jonahtan who was an example for all youth leaders. John C. Whitehead, Co-Chairman Drew Lewis, Co-Chairman John F. McGillicuddy, Councils President Richard M. Ruffino, Scout Executive and 129,000 New York City Scouts
        LEVIN-Jonathan-The Board of Trustees, President David C. Chang, Chancellor George Bugliarello and the entire Polytechnic community express our heartfelt sorrow on the death of Jonathan, the son of Gerald R. Levin, our special friend and supporter and recipient of Polytechnic's 1995 Distinguished Service Award for Science and Technology. We extend our profound sympathy to Mr. Levin and his entire family on their tragic loss.
        LEVIN-Jonathan. The Northshire Civic Center, Manchester, Vermont deeply mourns the tragic death of Jonathan Levin, the son of our friend and neighbor, Gerald Levin. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Jerry, his wife, Barbara, our fellow director, and to Carol Levin and the entire Levin family. Susan Sargent, President Perk Perkins and Josiah Miles Vice Presidents
        LEVIN-Jonathan. The Greater New York Chapter of the March of Dimes expresses heartfelt condolences to our friend and benefactor Gerald Levin and to his family on the tragic death of Jonathan Levin. His death is a great loss to our city's education system and to the untold students who would have benefitted from his dedication and devotion to the teaching profession. The Board of Directors
        LEVIN-Jonathan. We express our deepest sympathy to Gerald, Barbara, Carol Levin and the Levin family for the death of Jonathan. This sad loss affects all of us who care about teaching and learning, and our thoughts will remain with the Levins during this tragic and difficult time. The Board of Trustees and Community of Hampshire College, Amherst, Mass.
        LEVIN-Jonathan. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The Animal Medical Center extend their deepest sympathy to our Trustee, Barbara Riley Levin, to Gerald Levin, and to the friends and students of Jonathan Levin on their tragic loss. Donald J. Bruckmann, Chairman Board of Trustees Guy L. Pidgeon, DVM, President The Animal Medical Center
        LEVIN-Jonathan. On behalf of the Class and the entire Manhasset community, we extend our heartfelt condolences to our classmate Lee on the tragic loss of his brother John, Class of 1984. Our thoughts and prayers are with him and his family during this most difficult time. Class of 1982 Manhasset High School
        LEVIN-Jonathan M. All of us wish to extend our deepest sympathies to Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Levin and family for the loss of Jonathan M. Levin. BIDE-A-WEE HOME ASSOCIATION, INC.
      