
        SANTULLI-Thomas V., MD, renowned pediatric surgeon died on June 2, 1997, from cancer of the lung, at the age of 82. He was a pioneer in the development of the speciality of Pediatric Surgery, initiating one of the first seven training programs in the U.S. Dr. Santulli received a B.S. degree from Columbia University in 1935 and his M.D. degree from Georgetown University in 1939. He taught at Columbia University for over 40 years where, as Director of Pediatric Surgery at Babies & Children's Hospital for 25 years, he trained many future leaders in the field. Nine of his former trainees became directors of Pediatric Surgery at major academic medical centers. At his retirement in 1983 as Professor of Surgery Emeritus in Columbia University, the pediatric Surgery Library and Conference Room at Babies & Children's Hospital were named in his honor. Dr. Santulli was president of the American Pediatric Surgical Association, the first president of the New York Pediatric Surgical Society, and a member of numerous other medical organizations, including the American Surgical Association, the New York Surgical Society, the British Association of Pediatric Surgeons, and the American College of Surgeons. He was an honorary member of many foreign surgical societies. He was recipient of the Babies & Children's Hospital Centennial Medal as the ''Father of Pediatric Surgery'' at Columbia University in New York City. The Santulli Society, which convenes at national meetings, was formed by his former trainees, and the Santulli lectureship in Pediatric Surgery was established in Columbia University. Dr. Santulli was the author of over 130 scientific publications and book chapters and was integral to the creation of many media publications and national exhibits. He is survived by his beloved wife, Patricia Anne (nee Rita); two sons, Dr. Thomas V. Santulli, Jr. and Dr. Robert B. Santulli; a brother, Vincent Santulli; and five grandchildren. He was predeceased by his first wife Dorothy (nee Beverly). William T. Speck, MD President and Chief Exec. Officer The Presbyterian Hospital Herbert Pardes, MD V.P. for Health Sciences and Dean Faculty of Medicine at Columbia University
        SANTULLI-Dr. Thomas V. The Department of Pediatrics of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend Dr. Thomas V. Santulli. Dr. Santulli, Professor of Surgery Emeritus in Columbia University, was a pioneer in the development of the specialty of Pediatric Surgery. He served as Director of Pediatric Surgery at Babies & Children's Hospital for 25 years and received the Babies & Children's Hospital Centennial Medal as the ''Father of Pediatric Surgery.'' We will remember him for his leadership and teaching skills and for his contributions to the advancement in the treatment of many surgical conditions of children including imperforate anus, malformations of the intestinal tract, meconium ileus and pediatric solid tumors. He also helped to elucidate the cause of small intestinal atresia and in 1975 wrote a seminal and much quoted article on neonatal necrotizing enterocolitis. Our loss is shared by his many friends and colleagues in the medical community and by the great number of patients he cared for over the years. John M. Driscoll, Jr., M.D. Director of Pediatric Service, Babies & Children's Hospital of New York Chairman of the Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University, College of Physicians & Surgeons
        SANTULLI-Thomas V. St. Christopher's-Jennie Clarkson Childcare Services mourns the loss of its former member of the Board of Directors who devoted tireless efforts and deep compassion to our children in care over many years. Our deepest sympathies to the Santulli family.
      