
        BRUNDAGE-Howard Denton, an investment advisor and Senior Vice President with Smith Barney Capital Management in Old Lyme, died at his home in Lyme, CT on May 31. He was 73 years old. Mr. Brundage was born in Newark, New Jersey on November 9, 1923 to Salome Louise Denton and Edgar Ray Brundage. He was a 1944 summa cum laude graduate of Dartmouth College and earned Phi Beta Kappa honors his Junior Year. He also graduated with distinction from Midshipmen Officers' School at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. Mr. Brundage married Nancy Williams in 1945. They resided for a number of years in Montclair, New Jersey and Nantucket, Massachusetts prior to moving to Lyme, CT in 1977. Mr. Brundage's career spanned investment banking, commercial banking, venture capital and corporate finance. He worked with Morgan Stanley & Co., Hanover Bank, was a partner of J.H. Whitney & Co., and from 1962 to 1974 was Chief Financial Officer of J. Walter Thompson & Company. Mr. Brundage was a Director of London Guarantee and Accident Company, Phoenix Assurance Company, Smith Barney Equity Fund and Smith Barney Income Growth Fund. He served on the boards of Minute Maid Corporation, Morton Packing Company and Parade Magazine and was President and Director of the Herald Tribune newspaper. Mr. Brundage took an active interest in civic and charitable affairs. While living in Montclair, New Jersey he served as Parks Commissioner and Director of Revenue and Finance. He also served on the boards of the Montclair Art Museum, Mountainside Hospital, the Mountclair Public Library and was a trustee and VicePresident for Finance of the John and Florence Schumann Foundation. Mr. Brundage is survived by his wife of more than fifty years, Nancy Williams Brundage; a son, Peter Brundage, of Ft. Lauderdale, FL; three daughters: Louise Brundage Lynch, of Old Lyme, CT, Joanne Brundage Wilcox, of Madison, CT, and Geraldine Elizabeth Brundage, of Chester, CT; and six grandchildren. A memorial service is planned for 11 am Thursday, June 5 at the First Congregational Church of Old Lyme. Fulton-Theroux Funeral Services at Old Lyme is in charge of arrangements. Contributions in Mr. Brundage's memory may be made to the First Congregational Church of Old Lyme (Ferry Road) or the Lyme Historical Society/ Florence Griswold Museum (Lyme Street) in Old Lyme, CT 06371.
      