
        FREUND-Lucas S. Beloved son of Barbara and Peter. Devoted brother of Charlotte. Loving grandson of Joel and Arlene Kirschenbaum and M.G. John and Margaret Freund. Adored nephew and cousin. Service Monday, 10 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Lucas Samuel Freund Foundation, c/o Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, 425 Lexington Ave, NYC 10017.
        FREUND-Lucas S. Temple Shaaray Tefila records his tragic death with profound and heartbroken sorrow. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his parents Barbara and Peter, his sister Charlotte, his grandparents and all the family, friends and classmates. We offer our yearnings for their healing and comfort. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Dr. Ellen Saxl, President
        FREUND-Lucas S. A young man of rare qualities who combined spirit and intelligence with tenderness and thoughtfulness. We're all better people because of having known him. We loved him dearly. Although we will miss him, he will be with us forever. Gail, Walter, Kate and Jenny Harris
        FREUND-Lucas S. The most wonderful nephew of Caryn Blackman, Diane and Elliot Resnick. A great cousin of Chris, Caroline, Sarah, and Kate. A truly outstanding, brilliant, artistic, loving, excpetional person who will be missed by us all.
        FREUND-Lucas S. The staff of Kirschenbaum Bros., Inc., extends its sincere, heartfelt sympathy for the sudden and untimely passing of Lucas S. Freund, beloved son of Barbara and Peter, brother of Charlotte, and dear grandson of Arlene and Joel Kirschenbaum.
        FREUND-Lucas S. Our sincerest sympathy upon the tragic passing of Lucas S. Freund, son of Barbara and Peter, brother of Charlotte and grandson of Arlene and Joel Kirschenbaum. We love you. Lorraine and Gene
        FREUND-Lucas. The Town Club announces with profound sorrow the death of our esteemed member Joel Kirschenbaum's grandson, Lucas Freund. Irving Friedman, Chairman Larry Korman, President
        FREUND-Lucas S. Unforgettable. A beloved grandson of Arlene and Joel Kirschenbaum who filled our lives with only happiness and pleasure. You will remain in our hearts and our thoughts forever.
        FREUND-Lucas. The Town Club Foundation announces with profound sorrow the death of our esteemed member Joel Kirschenbaum's grandson, Lucas Freund. Harry Morgenstern, President
        FREUND-Lucas S. We love you and we'll miss you every day for the rest of our lives. Every day with you was a joy. Love, Mom, Dad and Charlotte
        FREUND-Lucas. Lukie, we love you and miss you. You will live in our hearts forever. Josh Vlasto and Carol Opton
        FREUND-Lucas. We are devasted by our loss. We love you and will remember you always. Your Fieldston Classmates
        FREUND-Lucas. The Ethical Culture Fieldston community offers its deepest sympathy to the family of Lucas Freund.
      