
        RUTLEDGE-Felix Noah, M.D., an internationally known gynecologic surgeon who developed innovative treatments for women with cancer, died on Saturday, June 21, 1997, in Houston, Texas. He was seventy-nine. During his 38-year association with The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Dr. Rutledge helped improve the outlook for thousands of women with gynecologic cancers. He was at the forefront in designing conservative, individualized cancer therapy that extended survival and reduced post-surgical complications. He was born in Anniston, Alabama, on November 20, 1917, the only son of Josie and Felix Noah Rutledge, Sr. He began planning to study medicine as a youth. He received an undergraduate degree at the University of Alabama in 1939 and earned his medical degree at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in 1943. He completed an internship and residence training in three specialty areas at Johns Hopkins Hospital before moving to Houston. Dr. Rutledge joined the M.D. Anderson staff in 1948 on a part-time basis. At that time, patients were seen in temporary quarters on an old family estate while the first hospital facility was being planned and built in the then-new Texas Medical Center. He became the first chairman of the Department of Gynecology when M.D. Anderson opened in 1954 and continued in that post until he retired in 1986. Dr. Rutledge was instrumental in developing the Department of Gynecology at M.D. Anderson into one of the nation's most productive academic training centers. He was widely acclaimed for his work in pelvic exenteration, as well as poineering less radical methods to remove cancers and preserve patient function and body image. In addition to his surgical and teaching skills, Dr. Rutledge designed clinical trials that demonstrated conclusively the superior results of applying multidisciplinary therapy to treat many forms of gynecologic cancer. His research led to extensive publications in leading professional journals and contributions to several textbooks. As a teacher, he personally trained over 100 post-graduate fellows in gynecologic oncology, many of whom have gone on to hold senior academic positions in medical institutions around the world. In 1970, the physicians he trained honored him by establishing the Felix Rutledge Society. The Society's purpose, to share new developments in gynecologic oncology and to stimulate original investigation in gynecologic oncology and to related fields, mirrors Dr. Rutledge's philosophy and values in the practice and art of medicine. A member of all societies of his specialties as well as many other medical societies, Dr. Rutledge served as President of the Society of Gynecologic Oncologists in 1975, President of the American Radium Society in 1976, and President of the Society of Pelvic Surgeons in 1979. He was one of five physicians who created the Subspecialty of Gynecologic Oncology for the American Board of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Dr. Rutledge received many honors and awards throughout his life including the Janeway Medal, American Radium Society (1982); the Distinguished Service Award, American Cancer Society (1985); the Heath Memorial Award (1985); Fellow of the Society of Scholars, Johns Hopkins University (1994); Honoris Causa in Medicine, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy (1994); Honoris Causa, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain (1997); Honorary Fellow, Royal College of Obstetrics & Gynecology of Great Britain; and Honorary Fellow, Royal College of Obstetrics and Gynecology of South Africa. He is survived by his wife, Dorothy Wood Rutledge of Geneva, Texas, his son and daughter-inlaw, Don and Melanie Rutledge of Sugar Land, Texas, and two grandsons, Kevin Scott Rutledge and Travis Matthew Rutledge also of Sugar Land. Services and interment will be held on Saturday, June 28, at 11:00 A.M. at McMahan Chapel near San Augustine, Texas, under the direction of the Starr Funeral Home of Hemphill. Memorial contributions may be sent to The Felix Rutledge Society Foundation, in care of Dr. J. Taylor Wharton, Chairman, Gynecologic Oncology, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe, Houston, Texas 77030.
      