
        SCHLESINGER-Edward B., MD. Died on June 1, 1997 at 83. Dr. Schlesinger was the first Byron Stookey Professor of Neurological Surgery, Chairman of the Department of Neurological Surgery, and Director of Neurological Surgery Service of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in NYC. Dr. Schlesinger received his BA from the University of Pennsylvania and his MD from the University's Medical School. His research experience began in his college years when he became a voluntary assistant in neurophysiology at the Johnson Foundation of the University of Pennsylvania. He began his internship at Hartford Hospital after which he was an Assistant Resident, then Resident, in Neurosurgery at the Neurological Institute of Columbia-Presbyterian. Dr. Schlesinger's hard work earned him a fellowship to the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota in 1941. He joined the military where he served until 1945. Dr. Schlesinger's appointments at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons began in 1946 when he became Research Assistant in the Department of Neurology. He also served as Research Associate of the Department of Neurological Surgery, and as Assistant and Associate Professor of Clinical Neurological Surgery. During the years 1949-1963, Dr. Schlesinger was in charge of cancer research projects at the College of Physicians and Surgeons. During his tenure, he established the Isotope Laboratory with support from the John A. Hartford Foundation. This period brought the development of the multi-collimated scanning device for extra-cranial localization of brain tumors using gamma emitting radioisotopes. Dr. Schlesinger published over 70 articles on the topics of neurological surgery, neuropharmacology, and nuclear medicine. Many will remember Dr. Schlesinger as a person who brought to Columbia-Presbyterian a wealth of experience in terms of teaching, practice, professional writings, organizational participation, and research. Dr. Schlesinger is survived by his wife, Mary (formerly Mary Eddy), four children, Jane, Mary, Ralph and Prudence, and seven grandchildren. Memorial contributions may be sent to the Scoville Memorial Library, Salisbury, CT or Augustus C. Long Medical Library, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. A funeral service will be held on Sat., June 7th, 1:30 at the Mt. Riga Cemetery, Salisbury, CT. William T. Speck, MD, President and Chief Executive Officer The Presbyterian Hospital Herbert Pardes, MD V.P. for Health and Sciences and Dean, Faculty of Medicine at Columbia University
        SCHLESINGER-Edward B., M.D. Chairman of the Department of Neurological Surgery of the Neurological Institute of New York, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center from 1973 to 1981. Died June 1. Graveside services on Saturday, June 7 at 1:30PM at the Mt. Riga Cemetery in Salisbury, CT.
      