
        LEVITZ-Jacob. Educator and Writer. Died on June 17, 1997, nine days short of his 85th birthday, after a long illness. Son of Rabbi Meir Perets and Bella Genendl, was born in Kolno, Poland in 1912. He received a traditional Jewish education in his hometown and in various Yeshivot. He came to the United States in 1929 and graduated from the Jewish Teachers Seminary, New York City. He received a B.A. in 1944 and an M.A. in 1947 from Wayne University, Detroit, Michigan. (Thesis: ''The Acculturation of the East European Jews in Mexico 1920-1946''); Ph.D from Dropsie College, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1954 (Dissertation: ''The Jewish Community in Mexico 1900-1954''). He worked over half a century in the field of Jewish education as a Teacher, Principal, Consultant and as Professor of Yiddish Language and Literature in The Jewish Teachers Seminary-Herzliah and its graduate school, The New School and Touro College, New York City. Contributed poetry and essays to various Yiddish, Hebrew and Anglo-Jewish publications: ''Zukunft'', ''Literarishe Bleter'' (Warsaw), ''Getseltn'', ''YIVOBleter'', ''Yidishe Shprakh'', ''Niv'', ''Hadoar'', ''Shviley Hakhinukh'', ''Jewish Education'', ''American Jewish Yearbook'' and others. His poems were put to music and included in the Anthologies: ''Gezang Un Kamf'' (New York), ''Yiddish Poets In Song'' (New York), ''Cradle Songs In Yiddish'' (TelAviv), ''Yiddish Cradle Songs In Hebrew'' (Tel-Aviv). He translated into English Sholem Ansky's ''The Dybbuk'', produced for television by Sidney Lumet. He is included in ''Leksikon Fun Der Nayer Yidisher Literatur'' (''Biographic Dictionary of Modern Yiddish Literature'', Congress for Jewish Culture, New York); ''Who Is Who In World Jewry'' (Tel-Aviv, 1978), ''Who Is Who In American Jewry'' (Los Angeles, 1980), and others. Survived by loving partner of seventeen years, Erica Erdberg; beloved daughter and son-in-law Beverly and Stephen Vosko; cherished granddaughters: Jennifer and Michelle; dear sister Norma Friedman; devoted nephews, Dr. Philip (Ellen) Friedman and Jack (Sandy) Friedman and their families; caring-in-laws Claudia and Jim Warberg; adored nieces Emily and Anya Warberg and many special friends, colleagues and generations of students. A man of rare intellect and wisdom, his distinguished life enriched us all. Services are on Thursday, June 19, 1997, at 9:45 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Interment is at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, Long Island.
        LEVITZ-Jacob, on June 17, 1997. Scholar, Educator, Poet, with you has passed a knowledge and love of Judaism and Yiddish-Keit that can never be replaced. The excellence of your mind was only equalled by your sensitivity and delicacy of style. You managed mortal illness with the same quiet dignity, strength and humor that marked all of your long, productive and distinguished life. My dearest friend, beloved partner of so many years, I thank you for all that you gave to me and the fullness of the love we shared. May you rest always in your deserved peace. Erica
      