
        LEHMANN-Dr. Manfred R. BarIlan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of its honorary alumnus and distinguished member of our Global Board of Trustees, Dr. Manfred R. Lehmann, and extend its most profound condolences to his beloved wife Sara Anne and the entire family. In modern times, Dr. Lehmann personnified the man who was at one and at the same time a great scholar and successful merchant. However, he was also a distinguished champion of the cause of Israel. He wrote brilliantly on the subject and initiated many enterprises to achieve justice for the Jewish people-in almost every area where these claims were not being fulfilled. At Bar-Ilan University, he and his wife established a Chair in loving memory of their son Jamie, committed to the study and publication of Ancient and Medieval Jewish Liturgy, ''rightfully called archaeology of the Jewish soul.'' The more than one thousand articles he published were on subjects which ranged from the most scholarly to the most timely to the most fascinating. His loss is irreparable. We pray that his family will continue to play a vital role in Bar-Ilan University's development as already demonstrated by his daughter Karen and her husband David who were our inaugural Young Presidential Founders. We join with the family in deriving solace from inspiring memories. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor, Bar-Ilan University Prof. Moshe Kaveh, President, Bar-Ilan University Jane Stern Lebell, President, American Friends Brig. Gen. (RES) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President
        LEHMANN-Rabbi Dr. Manfred R./d The Yeshiva University family expresses profound sorrow on the passing of a cherished friend, a distinguished scholar who was a member of the Board of Directors of our Bernard Revel Graduate School and, with his beloved wife, Sara Anne, a YU Guardian. His erudition as a Jewish historian and rabbinics researcher was reflected in the many scholarly gifts he provided our Mendel Gottesman Library of Hebraica-Judaica, University Archives, and YU Museum. The embodiment of Torah Umadda, which defines our institution's mission, he combined business acumen with brilliant insights into Jewish literature and dedication to the welfare of our people. He will be sorely missed by academicians and lay leaders alike. We extend our heartfelt condolences to children, Barbara (and Yitzchok) Siegel and Karen (and David) Eisner; brothers, Bert and Erik Lehmann; grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Mordecai D. Katz, Chairman BRGS Board of Directors
        LEHMANN-Manfred Dr. The Young Israel of Lawrence-Cedarhurst mourns the passing of one of it's founders and benefactors, with condolences to Mrs. Lehman and all of the bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jersaleum. Moshe Teitelbaum, Rabbi Michael Kollander, President
        LEHMANN-Manfred, Dr. Likud USA mourns the passing of our Board member and unparalleledvisionary. May the family be comforted among the mourners for Zion and Jerusalem. Joel E. Abramson, President
      