
        LEVIN-Jonathan. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc. deeply mourns the death of Jonathan Levin, the son of Gerald M. Levin, Chairman and CEO of Time Warner, Board Treasurer of the Philharmonic, and a long-time friend and loyal supporter of the Orchestra. A popular faculty member at Taft High School in The Bronx, Jonathan was admired by his students, colleagues and neighbors. He was a devoted teacher, ever willing to assume new responsibilities for the welfare of his students. His untimely death at age thirty-one is a shock to us. We feel that the Philharmonic family has lost a beloved member. We extend our sincere condolences to Jerry and Barbara Levin, Carol Levin, and the children, Laura, Lee, Michael and Anna. Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Deborah Borda, Exec Director Directors of the Society
        LEVIN-Jonathan. All of Time Warner joins in extending our deepest sympathy to Jerry, Barbara, Carol Levin and the entire Levin family on the death of Jonathan. A young man of high ideals, deeply committed to his vocation as a teacher, Jonathan was a source of great pride to his family. They cherished and loved him. They encouraged and supported him in his work. There are no words to ease the pain or to convey the grief that his death leaves behind. May the memory of Jonathan's goodness and kindness, and of the difference his life made to his friends, colleagues and students, bring consolution and solace to his family. May God send them His comfort and healing. The Time Warner Family
        LEVIN-Jonathan We mourn the tragic loss of Jonathan, the beloved son of Gerald Levin, our friend, fellow trustee and devoted supporter of A Living Memorial to the Holocaust-Museum of Jewish Heritage. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Gerry and his family in their sad loss. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chairman and Trustees of the Museum of Jewish Heritage
        LEVIN-Jonathan. We express profound sorrow at the death of Jonathan Levin, the son of our beloved friend, Gerald Levin, and the brother of our colleague, Michael D. Levin. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Levin family. Paul Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison
      