
        SALVADORI-Mario G. Died June 25, 1997, aged 90. Beloved husband of Carol; father of Vieri and Michael; grandfather of Niccolo, Daniel, and Maia; and father-in-law of Rebecca and Beth. Mario was a master teacher, a brilliant engineer, and a clear and imaginative writer. He lives in the hearts of his thousands of students as well as in the soul of his family. Funeral services private. A memorial gathering will be announced later.
        SALVADORI-Mario G. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Salvadori Educational Center on the Built Environment (SECBE) feel very deeply the loss of their founder and dear friend, Mario G. Salvadori. James Renwick Professor Emeritis of Engineering and Professor Emeritis of Architecture, Columbia University, distinguished structural engineer and prolific author, he devoted the last 20 years of his life to enriching the minds and lives of children everywhere, most especially New York City's disadvantaged students. He recognized potential and cultivated it in those whom society undervalued. ''Mario's children'' returned his love and grew to believe in their ability to learn and achieve. He taught us what one person could accomplish working tirelessly and inspiring others. Through SECBE, we pledge to carry on his work. Our sincerest condolences to Carol, his beloved wife, and to his entire family. Alfred S. Posamentier, Chairman Charles H. Thornton, President Lorraine Whitman, Exec Director Salvadori Educational Center on the Built Environment
        SALVADORI-Mario G. With great regret, his friends, colleagues and former students at Weidlinger Associates note the passing of a founding partner, former Chairman of the Board and Renaissance man. It is our good fortune to inherit the creativity and enthusiasm in engineering and architecture that he brought to the firm forty years ago. He is revered among us for his gentleness, humor and wisdom as for his outstanding technical achievements. On behalf of the Board of Directors and Staff of Weidlinger Assoc., Inc. Jeremy Isenberg, President
      