
        COOPER-Eli. Beloved husband of Harriet, Loving father of Douglas and Neil, Dear brother of Isadore, Elaine, Roth and the late Samuel and Nathan. Cherished grandfather, uncle, great-uncle and cousin. WWII vet, Trustee of the Jewish Museum, Member of the Board of Directors of the Committee for Weizmann Institute of Science, Member of the Executive Committee of Shvut Ami, Member of the Board of Directors of Baron de Hirsch Fund. Contributions in his memory may be made to American Friends of the Shvut Ami, 14037 69th Road, Flushing, New York 11367 Attn: Rafi Gruber. Services Thursday 12:00 Noon at Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, 114-03 Queens Boulevard, Forest Hills, New York.
        COOPER-Eli. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science notes with deep sorrow the passing of a generous supporter, contributor and valued member of the ACWIS Board of Directors. His confidence in a better future for Israel and the world was eloquently expressed through scholarships for American youngsters selected for the International Summer Science Institute at Weizmann and through donations for postdoctoral fellowship research. We express sincere condolences to his wife Harriet and the entire family. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Haim Harari, President S. Donald Sussman, Chairman American Committee Robert G. Begam, President Fran Ginsburg, Executive Director
        COOPER - Eli. The Jewish Museum deeply mourns the death of our dedicated trustee, Eli Cooper, and extends sincere sympathies to his wife, Harriet, and family members. Eli resonated particularly to the ways the Museum demonstrates the vitality, beauty and wisdom of the Jewish heritage. He and Harriet were instrumental in the construction and furnishing of our Cooper Shops, which are named in their honor. Eli served on the shop committee, giving invaluable insight and generous support. The staff and his fellow trustees will sorely miss him. E. Robert Goodkind, Chairman Robert J. Hurst, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
        COOPER-Eli. The Board and staff of The Baron De Hirsch Fund mourn the passing of Eli Cooper, a dedicated trustee who always did his homework and brought a keen mind to the work of the foundation. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife and family. George W. Naumburg, M.D., President
      