
        SHABAZZ-Dr. Betty. Columbia University mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Dr. Betty Shabazz. Dr. Shabazz devoted her life to promoting the values of education, community, and family. She was herself a leading example of those principles, educating herself in college and graduate school while working and raising a family following the death of her husband, Malcolm X. All educators everywhere owe a deep debt to her leadership and the inspiration she gave to young people by her teaching, her dedication, and the example of her own life. Columbia is proud to have worked with her for more than a decade in establishing the Malcolm X Memorial Scholarship for minority students at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons. She was proud of the program, and proud of the more than 20 students who have been Malcolm X Scholars and who practice in fields as diverse as anesthesiology, obstetrics and gynecology, orthopedic surgery, pediatrics, and medicine. Betty asked these recipients to give something back, in the spirit of her husband, to the less fortunate, medically underserved people of the inner city. In the Malcolm X scholarship program, Columbia commits itself to helping instill the values Dr. Shabazz stood for not only through the work of the Malcolm X Scholarship, but to all students who study medicine and the health professions at Columbia. Dr. Shabazz was an inspiration in life and in deed. She will be deeply missed. George Rupp, Ph.D. President Columbia University Herbert Pardes, M.D. Vice President and Dean, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons
        SHABAZZ-Dr. Betty. The Board of Trustees, the Central Administration, the College Presidents, the faculty, students and staff of The City University of New York deeply mourn the tragic passing of Dr. Betty Shabazz. During more than 21 years of service to Medgar Evers College, first as Associate Professor in Health Sciences, and since 1984, as Director of Institutional Advancement and Public Affairs/Cultural Attache, she served with exemplary distinction and dedication. We extend our deepest condolences to her entire family. Anne A. Paolucci, Chairwoman Board of Trustees W. Ann Reynolds, Chancellor
        SHABAZZ-Dr. Betty. The North Star Fund mourns the loss of Dr. Betty Shabazz. Her courageous work in civil rights, international issues, as a role model for mothers, building Medgar Evers College, and keeping alive the spirit of Malcolm X has been a great inspiration. She will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. North Star Fund, NY, NY
        SHABAZZ-Betty. The Jewish Community Relations Council mourns the loss of a great humanitarian. Her efforts to bring people together in Crown Heights, around the city and the nation will remain as a living monument to her memory. We send our deepest sympathies and prayers to her family. Martin S. Begun, President Michael S. Miller, Exec. V.P.
        SHABAZZ-Dr. Betty. The Columbia University School of Nursing community is saddened by the death of nursing colleague Dr. Betty Shabazz and extends its most sincere sympathies to the family. In Dr. Shabazz's memory, the School is establishing an endowed nursing scholarship which will be available to students in the fall 1997 semester.
        SHABAZZ-Dr. Betty. On behalf of the people of Brooklyn, I extend my deepest sympathy to the family of Dr. Betty Shabazz. Her courage and determination were an inspiration. Her civil rights work and unity efforts in Brooklyn, the City and the nation will be remembered by all. She will be missed. Brooklyn Borough President Howard Golden
        SHABAZZ-Betty. We honor the life and heritage of a woman of inspiring courage, leadership and activism in behalf of women, children and all oppressed people. Our profound sympathy to the family she loved and nurtured throughout her too short life. Bella Abzug and Mim Kelber Women's Environment and Development Organization
        SHABAZZ-Dr. Betty. Rest in peace my ''ole'' friend. You inspired the world. Anne K. Johnson
      