
        RAGER-Yitzhack (Ijo), mayor of Beer-Sheva Israel. We mourn our long time friend and his devoted and exemplary service to the state of Israel and the Jewish people worldwide. Our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Dr. Bracha Rager-Zisman, the children and grandchildren. His adopted sister, Selma, and her husband, Melvin L. Maisel
        RAGER-Mayor Yitzhack I. The American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev mourn the passing of a great friend, the Mayor of Beer-Sheva, home of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev. His visionary leadership will be sorely missed as we strive to fulfill the dream of David Ben-Gurion-to develop the Negev, the gateway to Israel's future. Kenneth L. Tucker, President Harold L. Oshry, Chairman of the Board Kenneth M. Farber, Executive Vice President
        RAGER-Yitzhak. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations and the National Conference on Soviet Jewry mourn the passing of our dear friend and mentor Yitzhak Rager, Mayor of Beer Sheva. Few know the depths of his devotion, his many personal sacrifices and myriad of accomplishments on behalf of the Jewish people. From his critical role in the movement to free Russian Jews to his remarkable tenure as Mayor of Beer Sheva, he leaves an inspiring legacy for his family, friends and the people of Israel. We pray that Bracha and the family will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Melvin Salberg, Chairman Conference of Presidents Rabbi Mark Staitman, Chairman NCSJ Malcolm Hoenlein, Conference of Presidents Mark Levin, NCSJ
        RAGER-Yitzhak. The leadership and staff of Israel Bonds deeply mourn the death of Yitzhak Rager, Mayor of Beersheba and a former President of Israel Bonds, 1980-1982. An ardent Zionist, he devoted his entire life to the development and well being of Israel and the fulfillment of the Zionist dream. We send our heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. Gideon Patt, President Burt P. Resnick President National Campaign Chairman Susan Weikers-Volchok International Campaign Chairman David B. Hermelin International Chairman Michael Siegal North American Campaign Chrm. Irwin Hochberg Greater N.Y. Chairman
      