
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. The administration, faculty, staff and students of the State University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn mourn with great sadness the untimely passing of Deborah Shalita-Marmour, daughter of Dr. Alan Shalita, Chairman of the Department of Dermatology, and Simone Shalita. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to Deborah's husband, to her parents and sister, and to all family members and friends. Eugene B. Feigelson, MD, Interim President
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. The faculty and staff of the Skin and Cancer Unit of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology of New York University mourn the tragic death of Deborah Shalita-Marmour, daughter of our alumnus, colleague and friend Alan Shalita. We share this tremendous loss with Alan, Simone, Judy, David, Daniel and all of their family and friends throughout the world. Irwin M. Freedberg, M.D. MacKee Professor and Chairman
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. The members of the Manhattan Metropolitan Dermatology Society mourn the tragic loss of Deborah Shalita-Marmour, daughter of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Alan Shalita. Our heartfelt and heartrending sympathies to her husband, David, parents, Alan and Simone Shalita, as well as family and friends. Rachelle Scott, MD, President Steven R. Cohen, MD, VP Roy Geronemus, MD, Sec'y
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. We join the dermatology community in grieving the untimely loss of Deborah Shalita-Marmour, daughter of our distinguished colleague, teacher and friend, Dr. Alan Shalita. Our thoughts are with her husband, David, her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Alan Shalita, family and friends. Department of Dermatology Beth Israel Medical Center Steven R. Cohen, MD, Chairman
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. The Board of Directors, Advisory Board and staff of the American Skin Association express their deepest sympathy to our friend and associate, Dr. Alan Shalita and his wife Simone on the untimely passing of their daughter. Our condolences to the entire Shalita and Marmour families. S. Hazard Gillespie, Chairman John S. Strauss, M.D., Advisory Board Chairman
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Debbie. Our hearts are filled with sorrow over the tragic passing of a special young woman who we watched grow since childhood. Her untimely death leaves an unfillable void. To Alan, Simone, Judy and David, we love you and share in your tremendous loss. Linda and Herb
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. University Chapter, Women's League for Israel, is deeply saddened by the untimely death of Debbie, daughter of Simone and Alan Shalita. Alice Fisher, President University Chapter
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. Everyone in our office wishes to extend our deepest sympathy. We have lost a friend who was as close to us as a daughter. New York Gynecological and Obstetrical Associates
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. To Alan, Simone, Judy, David and Daniel, all of your friends who are too far away to be with you send you their love.
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. We shared innumerable family joys together. We will always think of you and miss you. With Love, Barbara, John, Charles & Richard
      