
        LEADER-Sidney D., M.D. On June 4, 1997. Beloved husband of Ruby Felt Leader, loving father of Isobel Aviva Kirsch and Steven Leader and father-in-law of Barbara, cherished grandfather of Beth and Gabrielle Kirsch and Jaclyn and Allison Leader. Services Friday 12pm at Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 W. 83 St, NYC.
        LEADER-Dr. Sidney D. We are grieved to record the passing of our Honorary Life President, Dr. Sidney D. Leader. Dr. Leader was President of our congregation for 7 years and worked tirelessly for the spiritual, emotional and cultural vitality of Rodeph Sholom. Sidney possessed a rare passion for life, gift for healing and fine understanding for Maimonides' synthesis of reason and revelation. Sidney's mind always stayed young and he was fully cognizant of the sacred potential of each day. Dr. Leader was blessed and he knew it. Through his considerable legacy he remains our teacher and inspiration. Our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife and soul-mate Ruby, their daughter Isobel Kirsch, son and daughter-in-law Steven and Barbara Leader and their grandchildren Beth, Gabrielle, Jaclyn and Allison. We are all diminished by his passing. May he rest in peace. Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi Jack B. Levitt, President and the Board of Trustees of Congregation Rodeph Sholom
        LEADER-Dr. Sidney. The Rodeph Sholom School mourns the passing of Dr. Sidney Leader, our lifelong friend and benefactor and distinguished past President of Congregation Rodeph Sholom. Together with his beloved wife, Ruby, he envisioned and assured the establishment of our school. Dr. Leader was a highly regarded West Side pediatrician for many years, a great man, and an eminent leader in the Jewish community. Generations of children in the years to come will greatly benefit from his vision, his wisdom and his counsel. We extend our deepest sympathy to Ruby and their children, Isobel Kirsch and Steven and Barbara Leader; and to the grandchildren, Beth, Gaby, Jaclyn and Allison. Irwin Shlachter, Headmaster David N. Roberts, Chairman, Board of Directors Stephen J. Pearlman, Chairman Emeritus
        LEADER-Sidney D, M.D. The Board of Directors of the Scholarship & Welfare Fund of the Alumni Association of Hunter College mourns the death of Sidney D. Leader, husband of Ruby Felt Leader, a director of the fund for many years. Their generosity and concerns for the students of Hunter College are greatly appreciated. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Ruby and her family. Leah D. Greisman, President Scholarship & Welfare Fund Alumni Assoc of Hunter College
        LEADER-Dr. Sidney D. It is with a feeling of great loss that The Brotherhood of Congregation Rodeph Sholom announces the passing of one its own. Sidney, you were a friend to Brotherhood and your counsel will be missed. And to you Ruby we are sorry for your loss. Mark Gerstel, President
        LEADER-Sidney Dr. We extend our deepest sympathies to Steven Leader and to the entire Leader family. Peter H. Harris, Marilee Bleetstein, Ron Short
      