
        LINDENBAUM-John, M.D., on June 11, 1997. Beloved husband of Shirley. Dear brother of Peter and sister-in-law Sheila. Service private. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory to the CPMC Fund for the Lindenbaum Lectures.
        LINDENBAUM-John. ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center community wishes to express sadness at the loss of one of its most exceptional leaders and teachers. These feelings come from all of the faculty, fellows, housestaff, medical students, administrators, technicians and secretarial staff especially those in the Department of Medicine who have been his students in the broadest sense of the word. He was among the leading clinical investigators in the world in the area of vitamin B-12 and folate metabolism. He served admirably for more than a decade as Chief of Hematology-Oncology and Associate Chair of Medicine at Harlem Hospital and then for a decade as Associate or Acting Chair of Medicine at ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center. His long-standing commitment to the advancement of minority physicians is reflected in his own recent establishment of a fund to bring minority leaders in the field of Medicine to Columbia-Presbyterian. This fund will be named in his honor. Contributions should be sent to the Dr. John Lindenbaum Fund, C/O Myron L. Weisfeldt, Chair, Department of Medicine, ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center, 630 West 168th Street, NY, NY 10032. Herbert Pardes, M.D. Vice President for Health Sciences & Dean, Faculty of Medicine at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. William T. Speck, M.D. President and CEO, The Presbyterian Hospital. Myron L. Weisfeldt, M.D. Samuel Bard Professor of Medicine, Chair, Department of Medicine at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons, Director, Medical Service, The Presbyterian Hospital.
        LINDENBAUM-John. The Medical Interns and Residents at Columbia-Presbyterian would like to express its deepest sympathy to the family of Dr. John Lindenbaum, Associate Chairman of the Department of Internal Medicine. Dr. Lindenbaum's passing is a tremendous loss to our community. He was a role model, healer, teacher, scientist, physician and champion of humanity worldwide. Most importantly, he was a friend. We will miss him. The Interns and Residents, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, Department of Internal Medicine, New York.
      