
        KAISER-Benjamin. On June 16, 1997. Beloved husband of Ita. Devoted father of Steven and Alan, and daughters-in-law Vivian and Debra. Cherished grandfather of Emily, Kara and Jeffrey. Services on Wednesday, 9:30 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers donations to the Holocaust Museum, Washington, D.C.
        KAISER-Benjamin. Baume and Mercier Inc. mourns the passing of the firm's beloved Chairman, Benjamin Kaiser. On Monday, June 16, 1997. Age 72. In respect to Mr. Kaiser the New York offices of Baume and Mercier Inc. will be closed on Wednesday, June 18. Mr. Kaiser served as Baume and Mercier's Chairman since March 1993, at that time he was succeeded by his son, Steven P. Kaiser as President and CEO. His roots with Baume and Mercier dates back to 1955 when he and his associates formed David G. Steven, Incwhich in 1962 was appointed the exclusive US Distributor of Baume and Mercier Watches. Mr. Kaiser attended The London School of Economics until 1948 and in 1949 he and his wife Ita immigrated to the United States where he entered the watch case manufacturing business. Always active in a number of trade associations, Mr. Kaiser served as President of the Jewelers Vigilance Committee. Funeral services will be held today, June 18 at 9:30 AM, at Riverside Chapel located at 180 West 76th Street. The Kaiser family respectfully requests any donations be made to: The Holocaust Memorial Museum, attention: Tribute Committee, 100 Raoul Wallenberg Place, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20024. He is survived by his wife Ita, two sons, Steven and Alan, daughters-in-law, Vivian and Debbie and grandchildren, Emily, Jeffrey and Kara.
        KAISER-Benjamin. The Jewelers Vigilance Committee mourns the passing of our President Benjamin Kaiser. Mr. Kaiser served as a director since 1987 and as 1st Vice President prior to his assuming the Presidency in 1996. His devotion and dedication to the jewelry industry, its standards and ethics was extraordinary, as he spent countless hours improving the quality of business practices. He wil be greatly missed by our officers, directors, staff and the entire membership. Our sympathies to his wife Ita, and sons Steven and Alan and their families. Michael Barlerin 1st Vice President Harold Tivol 2nd Vice President Michael Paolercio Secretary Stanley Schechter Treasurer Joel A. Windman Executive Vice President and General Counsel Abe M. Shainberg Executive Vice President of Operations
        KAISER-Benjamin. The officers, leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Benjamin Kaiser, a longtime friend and generous supporter of UJA-Federation. He was an outstanding leader and past chair of the Diamond, Jewelry, and Watch division. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Ita; his sons, Steven and Alan; his grandchildren; and the entire family. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Larry A. Silverstein, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Matthew Fortgang & Robert Kempler Diamond, Jewelry, & Watch Division Chairs Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        KAISER-Benjamin. The Officers, Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Joseph Bulova School are profoundly saddened by the loss of Ben Kaiser, Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees. Mr. Kaiser was a cherished and respected colleague for many years. To all who knew him, Ben was a pillar of strength and a man of great warmth and compassion. To his wife and family, we extend our deepest sympathy. Peter Laetsch, Chairman Warren MacKenzie, Director The Joseph Bulova School
        KAISER-Ben. The Wexler Family and the entire Tourneau organization mourns the grevious loss of our dear friend and confidant. His courage, integrity and generosity stand as exemplary models for both the business community and the community at large. We will deeply miss his charm, wit and counsel. The industry has lost a true leader. Our deepest condolences to Ita, Steven, Alan and the entire Kaiser Family.
        KAISER-Benjamin. The Twenty Four Karat Club of the City of New York records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed board member and past president. Our heartfelt sympathies to Ita and Steven and the family. Adam C. Heyman, Chairman Marvin R. Markman, President The Twenty Four Karat Club of the City of New York
        KAISER-Benjamin. A leader in the watch and jewelry industry for almost 50 years. His wisdom and knowledge will be missed by all of us. We extend our sympathy to his wife Ita, his children Steven, Vivian, Alan and Debbie and grandchildren Emily, Jeffrey and Kara. Grossbardt and Schechter families
        KAISER-Benjamin. The Board of Directors of the American Watch Association mourns the passing of our former Chairman, Director and longtime friend. His leadership and dedication will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. American Watch Association
        KAISER-Benjamin. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Benjamin Kaiser, and send condolences to his family.
        KAISER-Ben. We shall remember you always with affection and resopct. Indeed, we will miss you. Gerry Gewirtz Friedman Dr. Eugene Friedman
        KAISER-Ben. I have lost my special friend whom I shared a history of events with. To Ita and family we send our heartfelt sympathy. Fred and Georgette Standish
        KAISER-Benjamin, devoted friend for many years. We will miss you. Our hearts go out to the entire Kaiser family. Jean and Irene Vitau
        KAISER-Ben. We mourn the untimely passing of our best and dearest friend. Alexander Wincberg Helen Chiang
        KAISER-Benjamin. We mourn the loss of our friend and colleague. Ronny, Gary, Steve and Jeff Wayne, Kurt Wayne Inc.
        KAISER-Benjamin. We mourn his passing. Our thoughts are with his family. We will miss him. Ellen and Ronny Wayne
      