
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah, on June 10, 1997. Beloved wife of David Marmour; mother of Daniel; daughter of Simone and Alan Shalita; sister of Judith Shalita. Services Friday, 11am, at Congregation Shaaray Tefila, 79th Street and 2nd Avenue, NYC.
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Debbie. Temple Shaaray Tefila is filled with sorrow over her untimely death. She grew up in and was married in our synagogue. She shared her smile and laughter with all who knew her. We will sorely miss her. We extend our hearts and loving sympathy to her husband David, her parents Alan and Simone, to her twin sister Judy and all her family and friends. We will always remember her and pray for the comfort of those who loved her. Our sanctuary will embrace her one last time on Friday, June 13, at 11 A.M. Harvey M. Tattelbaum, Rabbi Dr. Ellen R. Saxl, President
        SHALITA MARMOUR-Deborah Mindy. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center record with sorrow the untimely death of Deborah Mindy Shalita Marmour, daughter of Dr. Allan Shalita. Our sincere condolences to the Shalita and Marmour families. Edwin L. Schulman, Chairman, Board of Trustees; Frank J. Maddalena, President and Chief Executive Officer; Alvin I. Kahn, MD, Sr. Vice President Medical Affairs; I. Akiva Wulkan, MD, President Medical Board; Eric Saltzman, MD, President Medical Staff
        SHALITA MARMOUR-Deborah. The Brooklyn Dermatologic Society mourns the loss of Deborah Shalita-Marmour, beloved daughter of our colleague and friend, Dr. Alan R. Shalita and his wife Simone. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to Dr. and Mrs. Shalita, Debbie's loving husband David Marmour, son Daniel, and her dear sister Judy Shalita. Debbie will be missed dearly by all. Elizabeth Carr, MD, President Teresita Laude, MD, Secretary Yehudi Felman, MD, Treasurer
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah M. Our hearts ache for the entire Shalita and Marmour families on the untimely passing of Deborah Mindy Shalita-Marmour. Our sincerest sympathy, love and condolences go out to her beloved husband David, son Daniel, devoted parents Alan and Simone and loving twin Judy. From your extended family, friends and colleagues, from the Dept of Dermatology SUNY-Brooklyn.
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. To David, Simone, Alan, Judy-no words can possibly express our sorrow over the tragic loss of our lifelong friend. Debbie truly brighten our lives with her warmth and her generosity. Her infectious smile touched us to the core. We will forever miss her. We are here for you always. Stacie, Allison, Stephanie Glenn, David, Nathaniel
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. We mourn the tragic loss of our dear friend, Debbie, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Alan Shalita and extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, David and family. Bay Ridge Skin and Cancer Dermatology, P.C. Laszlo Biro, M.D. Ely Price, M.D. Elizabeth Carr, M.D. David Biro, M.D.
        SHALITA-MARMOUR-D. All the members and employees of Sierra Realty Corp. offer our deepest sympathy to the entire Marmour and Shalita families on the untimely passing of Deborah ShalitaMarmour. Our prayers and condolences go out to her husband David, her son Daniel, her parents Simone and Alan and her twin sister Judy.
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. The members of the New York Dermatological Society are saddened by the death of Debbie, daughter of their esteemed colleague Dr. Alan and Simone Shalita. Our thoughts are with the Shalita and Marmour families. David N. Silvers, M.D., President Jerome Shupack, M.D., Secretary
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. The Department of Dermatology at Columbia University mourns the untimely death of Deborah Shalita-Marmour. We extend our deepest sympathy to her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Alan Shalita and her entire family.
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. The Bickers family extends heartfelt sympathy to Alan and Simone and their entire family at this time of such profound sadness on the sudden and unexpected death of Deborah Shalita-Marmour.
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Debbie. Debbie was a symbol of love, beauty and light. We love you and miss you. Our thoughts are with the Marmour and Shalita families. Ms. Montage
        SHALITA MARMOUR-Deborah. Votre esprit est avec nous toujours et votre coeur ne cesserai jamais. Je t'aime, Annette Clark Weisberg and Richard Weisberg
        SHALITA - MARMOUR - Deborah. We shared innumerable family joys together. We will always think of you and miss you. With Love, Barbara, John, Charles & Richard
      