
        LINCHNER-Rabbi Alexander S. Nofloh Ateres Roshaynu, the crown of our head has fallen. Oy lonu ki shokoh shimshosaynu, woe to us for our sun has set. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed, revered and beloved Rabbi Alexander Sender Linchner, zecher tzadik livrocho. Rabbi Linchner was a visionary who devoted his every thought, action and moment to Toras Yisroel, Am Yisroel and Eretz Yisroel. Inspired and guided by his legendary father-in-law, Reb Shraga Feivel Mendlowitz, zt''l, founder of Torah U'Mesorah, and spiritual force behind virtually every major institution of Torah, Rabbi Linchner set out with a passionate commitment to teach and inspire Jewish youth, both here and in Israel. As a young American yeshiva student, he went to pre-war Europe to study with the sainted Chofetz Chaim, whose love for the Jewish People would continue to inspire Rabbi Linchner throughout his life. He returned to the U.S. only to be devastated at the loss of six million Jews, particularly one and a half million innocent children. He was permanently affected by the Nazis carefully orchestrated plan to bring about the spiritual demise of the Jewish People by systematically murdering the Roshei Yeshiva, rabbis and Torah scholars and destroying of all of Europe's Torah centers, cities, towns and shtetlach. He viewed himself as a Holocaust survivor, committing his life to restore the Jewish People to their glory-primarily through its youth-return Torah learning to its primacy and build the Land of Israel. Profoundly influenced by Rabbi Shamshon Raphael Hirsch's philosophy of Torah im Derech Eretz, he founded Boys Town Jerusalem where he would teach students that they stood in the place of that lost generation of Jewish children and would inspire them to carry on with our timeless Torah heritage. Rabbi Linchner nurtured Boys Town not just as a school, but as a movement. Its 5,000 graduates have taken the value system imbued in them to virtually every Israeli city, town and village which now bears indelible imprint of the sterling character and values of Rabbi Linchner and his revered and sainted mentors, the G'doley Yisroel. Most important, he touched the lives of countless Israeli youth, giving them hope, opportunity and the means to lead a self-respecting life as they collectively build the Land of Israel while molding its spiritual fibre. The Jewish People have suffered an irreplaceable loss. Our ultimate tribute to Rabbi Linchner-who never compromised principle by remaining steadfast to the Torah-will be through our rededication to the tangible expression of his lifelong mission of perpetuating the timeless values of Torah im Eretz Yisroel, Boys Town Jerusalem. Boruch attoh b'voecho, u'voruch attoh b'tzaysecho. We express our heartfelt sympathy to Rebbetzin Linchner, Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Mrs. Naomi Rothstein, his children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and his cherished extended family, the Boys Town Jerusalem mishpocho. Hamakom yinachem eschem besoch shaar a'velay Tzion v'Yerushalayim. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Exec. V.P.
        LINCHNER-Rabbi Alexander. The Talmud (Sanhedrin 19b) questions why Parshas Bamidbar calls the sons of Aaron the offspring of Aaron and Moses. The inference made is that one who teaches Torah to someone else's children is regarded as having begotten them. Rashi states that because Moses taught Torah to Aaron's four sons, he became their spiritual father. The Jewish world has lost such a spiritual father with the passing of Rabbi Alexander Linchner, founder of Boys Town Jerusalem. He was a remarkable man spiritually and inspirationally. He knew no obstacles when it came to creating the premier learning institution in Israel for immigrant and disadvantaged children. Everyone who visited Boys Town Jerusalem came away with the feeling that they had been at a unique place where Torah and technology combined to create Israel's most dedicated and devoted citizens. Rabbi Linchner was the spiritual father to thousands. The Scharf family has lost a dear friend and a moral beacon. The Aaron and Blanche Scharf Institute for Advanced Jewish Education at Boys Town Jerusalem will insure that the legacy of teachers and graduates steeped in Torah continues. We extend our deepest sympathy to Rebbitzen Batsheva and to the entire Linchner family on their great loss. Michael and Fiona Scharf
      