
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The Board of Directors and staff of the Legal Action Center mourn with deep sorrow the passing of Arthur L. Liman, mensch, mentor, warrior for justice and our founding and only Chairman. Under his dedicated leadership for 25 years, the Center has fought discrimination at every level of society on behalf of people with histories of alcohol and drug problems, AIDS and criminal records. We have benefited from his extraordinary vision and unstinting commitment to public service, and we will sorely miss his counsel, wisdom and love. All who care about civil rights and social justice have lost a great champion. We send our deepest sympathy to his wife Ellen, his children, Emily, Douglas and Lewis, his sister Gladys, and his many friends and colleagues. Peter Barton Hutt, Vice Chairman Paul Nathan Samuels, Director/ President
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The Board of Directors of The Equitable Companies Incorporated and The Equitable Life Assurance Society note with profound sadness the passing of Board Member Arthur L. Liman. During his 13-year tenure, he served with distinction, imparting outstanding advice, counsel and wisdom to the management of Equitable. Throughout his life he was known for his great intelligence, dedication and outstanding skill as a trial lawyer. We will miss his friendship, passion and wit, and feel privileged to have been the recipient of his many talents. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family. Joseph J. Melone, Chairman of the Board The Equitable Life Assurance Society
        LIMAN-Arthur. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum sadly mourn the death of Arthur Liman, husband of Life Trustee Ellen Fogelson Liman. The Liman & Foeglson families were deeply involved in the growth and development of The Jewish Museum for nearly three decades. We extend heartfelt condolences to Ellen, Douglas, Emily, Lewis, and their entire family. Joan Rosenbaum, Helen Goldsmith Menschel Director Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. He brought honor to our congregation as he served the Jewish community and our Nation throughout his enormously productive life. We extend to his wife, Ellen, his children, Lewis, Emily (Don), Douglas, his sister Gladys (Gordon) and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Alan Levine, Ch. of the Bd. Robert P. Antler, President
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The partners and staff of Alpine Capital Group mourn the passing of our lawyer, trusted advisor, colleague, mentor and dearest friend, Arthur L. Liman. Our deepest sympathy and condolences to his wife Ellen, his children Emily, Lewis and Douglas, and his law firm, Paul Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton and Garrison. We will miss him, but he will always remain a member of our family. He was truly one of a kind, a great man. Alpine Capital Group
        LIMAN-Arthur. It is with deep sadness that the board and staff of The American Federation of Arts learned of the death of Arthur Liman, husband of devoted AFA trustee Ellen Liman. His passionate commitment to the pursuit of truth will be missed by all who knew him. The AFA extends heart felt sympathies to the entire Liman family. Robert M. Meltzer, Chairman Jan Mayer, President Serena Rattazzi, Director
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The partners and associates of the firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore express their sorrow at the passing of Arthur L. Liman, our admired friend and colleague who exemplified the finest qualities of the Bar. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Ellen and his children Emily, Lewis and Douglas.
        LIMAN-Arthur. On behalf of our organization we deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend and supporter. We extend our sincere condolences to Ellen, Lewis, Emily and Don, Doug; as well as other members of the Liman family. Robert Bernstein, Chair Kenneth Roth, Exec. Dir. Human Rights Watch
        LIMAN-Arthur. With deep sorrow, we note the loss of Arthur Liman. His love and dedication to family and friends extended beyond the call of duty. He will be greatly missed. Condolences to Ellen, Emily, Lewis and Douglas. Vita and Family
        LIMAN-Arthur. We note with deep sorrow the passing of Arthur Liman. He was a great friend, colleague and staunch supporter of ICP. We will miss him terribly. Willis Hartshorn Cornell Capa Int'l Center of Photography
        LIMAN-Arthur, L. Buckingham Research Group mourns the passing of a kind and dear friend. We send our sympathy to Ellen, Emily, Douglas and Lewis and all who loved him. Laurence C. Leeds, Jr. David B. Keidan
        LIMAN-Arthur.The Legal Aid Alumni Association mourns the untimely passing of a great mentor. Condolences to his family. Roz Lichter, President
        LIMAN-Arthur L. A wonderful person, superb lawyer and very good friend. I will miss you and never forget you. Arthur N. Abbey
      