
        KNOWLTON-Abbie Ingalls, MD. The Association of the Alumni of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University records with deep sorrow the death of its devoted alumna on July 15, 1997. A graduate of the Class of 1942, she trained at Presbyterian Hospital, then joined the faculty and rose to the rank of Clinical Professor of Medicine. She was an esteemed endocrinologist who was considered an authority on the management of patients with Addison's Disease of which her knowledge was encyclopedic. She devoted years to research, teaching and patient care at the Medical Center and was noted for her outstanding contributions, especially teaching of Physical Diagnosis, Internal Medicine and the monthly Clinical Pathology Conferences. She was adored by her patients, revered by her students and admired by her peers for the quality of her care and the depth of her caring. In 1986 she was awarded the Alumni Medal for Outstanding Service, and in 1990 Columbia's Alumni Federation Medal. In 1991 she was presented the Arnold Gold Foundation Award which is given to a physician who has demonstrated compassionate and devoted patient care and who has served as a humanistic role model for students and young physicians. She held almost every office in the Alumni Association, most notably Annual Fund Chairman from 1982-1997, 1942 Class Chairman from 1978-1997, & President from 1993-95. Her innovative leadership, wise counsel & dedicated service to her Alma Mater were a continuing source of pride to her colleagues in the Alumni Association. We join in expressing sincere condolences to her husband, Kenneth Calder, MD, P&S Class of 1944; her son, Thomas; her daughter, Mary; and two grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that contributions in Dr. Knowlton's memory be sent to Columbia University, College of Physicians & Surgeons, 630 West 168 Street, BB2-250, New York, N,Y, 10032. Lester Blair, MD, President Anke Nolting, Associate Dean
        KNOWLTON-Abbie. ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center mourns the passing of our beloved friend, colleague and teacher, Dr. Abby Ingalls Knowlton, Professor of Medicine in Endocrinology at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and Consultant Emeritus in Medicine at The Presbyterian Hospital. Abbie was a consummate physician, a scientist who brought her abundant humanity to the bench and bedside. She dedicated her professional life-over half a centuryto the study of the human species and the diseases that ailed it. Her impact was felt immediately upon her 1937 admission to Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons. At Columbia Presbyterian she made revolutionary progress in clininical research in Endocrinology, shepherded numerous chronically ill patients through decades of devoted care, and taught generations of students and house staff how to listen. Abbie did not allow her illness to crimp her style or dampen her enthusiasm. She applied the best in herself as physician, educator and human being to help bring out the best in those around her. Abbie considered herself privileged to study, practice and teach medicine. The privilege was ours. We will miss her dearly and extend our deepest sympathies to her husband, Dr. Kenneth Calder, children and grandchildren. Herbert Pardes, M.D. Vice President and Dean Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons William T. Speck, M.D. President & CEO The Presbyterian Hospital
      