
        FINLEY-Joseph E. Beloved and revered General Counsel Emeritus and historian for the Office and Professional Employees International Union died on July 8, 1997. Mr. Finley served the Union for Professional Technical and Clerical Employees for more than forty years. He advocated for OPEIU members in many court cases including several before the U.S. Supreme Court. He successfully argued the right of white collar employees of trade unions to organize and bargain collectively in OPEIU v. NLRB (353 US 313); and that the convention of the International Union could establish a minimum dues rate for local unions in Ranes v. OPEIU Local 28 (317 f.2d915). Besides chronicling the history of OPEIU in his book ''White Collar Union'' (1975), he was a prolific writer whose works include ''The Corrupt Kingdom'' (1973) on the United Mine Workers of America, the critically acclaimed novel, ''Missouri Blue'', which was part autobiographical, as well as several books on horse racing under a pseudonym. At the time of his death he was working on a book on the battle of Saratoga. Mr. Finley was born on August 7, 1919, to William V. and Nell (Whitten) Finely in Missouri. He was a graduate of the University of Missouri School of Journalism (1942) and Yale Law School (1951). He was a member of the bar of the United States Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, Maryland, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Besides having a private practice, he was a partner of Metzenbaum, Gaines, Finley and Stern, in Cleveland, Ohio, 1961 to 1970. He was also General Counsel for the International Brotherhood of Pottery and Allied Workers, East Liverpool, Ohio, 1970 to 1983. He heroically served in World War II from 1942 to 1946 as one of the early liberators of concentration camp survivors in Dachau. He is survived by his wife, Doctor Joanne Finely, MD, his daughter and fellow lawyer, Lucinda Finley and his sons, Scott, William and Ethan Finley. We offer them our most heartfelt condolences. We thank them for generously sharing him with us for so very long. His loss to our International Union is immense. There was no more dedicated, insightful defender of workers' rights. He rigorously pursued justice and fairness in the workplace and a better way of life for all working people. He was and is an inspiration to all. He was our historian, our advocate, our adjudicator, our brother and our very gentle friend. May he rest in peace. There will be no service, although a memorial will be held in New York City in a few weeks. For information, call OPEIU at 212-675-3210. The family has asked that any donations be made to the John Kelly Labor Studies Scholarship Fund or the Howard Coughlin Scholarship Fund. Please contact 202-393-4464 for details. Officers, staff, and members of the Office and Professional Employees International Union AFL-CIO, CLC Michael Goodwin, Intl President Gilles Beauregard, Intl Secy/Treas
        FINLEY-Joseph E. We the members of the OPEIU Executive Board mourn the loss of Joseph E. Finley, 77, who died in his home July 8, 1997, in Baltimore, Maryland. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Doctor Joanne Finley, M.D., daughter, Lucinda and sons, Scott, William and Ethan. We were honored to have him as our General Counsel for Office & Professional Employees International Union, AFL-CIO, CLC, for more than forty years. In that capacity, he successfully defended the right of working people to fairness, respect, a decent standard of living and better working conditions. His advice throughout the years as a legal expert to our executive board was invaluable and incomparable. He was also much more: a writer, both historical and literary; a Dachau concentration camp liberator during World War II; a husband and father; and a loyal, cherished friend and brother to union members throughout the U.S. and Canada. We will miss his optimism and idealism. But we cherish the time we had together and the legacy he leaves us. International Executive Board, Office and Professional Employees International Union AFL-CIO, CLC
        FINLEY-Joseph E. We grieve the loss of our brother, trade unionist, our International Union historian and General Counsel Emeritus, Joseph E. Finley who served our union and this local heroically and unselfishly for the majority of his life. He powerfully influenced this union, its policies, and legal battles. His idealism and vision have helped direct its course. His generosity and dedicated pursuit of fairness have bettered the lives of thousands of working people. There are few of which we are as proud. We send our deepest sympathies to his wife, Dr. Joanne Finley, M.D., daughter, Lucinda and sons, Scott William and Ethan. We mourn his loss but celebrate his life which was full and well-spent. Local 153, Office and Professional Employees International Union AFL-CIO Michael Goodwin, Business Mgr Richard Lanigan, Secretary/Treas
      