
        RISLEY-William H., 80, of Prospect St. in Litchfield, died early Monday morning. He was born in Brooklyn, NY on June 18, 1917, son of the late Dr. Harry and Emma (Smith) Risley. He graduated from the Taft School in 1935 and Dartmouth College in 1939. Following military service during World War II, Mr. Risley worked as an executive for Pan American Airways for 22 years. He was the founder of Sailfish Sportscraft of Canada and Italy, and later Travel Consultants of Litchfield. He served as an officer of the First National Bank of Litchfield. Mr. Risley was devoted to his community. He served as president and chairman of the White Memorial Foundation, as a director and treasurer of the Grafton Pond Land Trust, as trustee, planning committee member, chairman of the old boy challenge and 1996 recipient of the Citation of Merit at the Taft School, and as a trustee of Old Sturbridge Village. Mr. Risley was active in a number of clubs. He was a past president of the Litchfield Country Club and the Osler Bluff Ski Club of Canada. He held memberships in the following organizations: the Moorings Club and the Vero Beach Country Club of Florida, the Dartmouth Club of New York, the Sanctum of Litchfield, the Washington Rod and Gun Club, the Connecticut Historical Society, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the New York Pops, the Raleigh Tavern Society, the Audubon Society of New Hampshire, the Antiquarian & Landmarks Society, the Heritage Foundation, the Republican National Committee and the Republican Presidential Task Force. He leaves his daughter, Mary Snyder Risley of San Francisco; two sons, William Snyder Risley of Washington, CT, and John Taylor Risley of East Longmeadow, MA; two step-sons, Dr. Charles Joseph de Sieyes of Falmouth, Maine and David Conroy de Sieyes of Hamilton, MA; and eight grandchildren, Rebecca, Emma, Matthew, Mary, Nicholas, Evan, Malcolm, Charlotte. A memorial service will be held on Thursday at 3:30 P.M. at the First Congregational Church, Litchfield. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the White Memorial Conservation Center, 71 Whitehall Road, Post Office Box 368, Litchfield, CT. 06759.
      