
        GOETT-Edward J. Age 78, died on Thursday, July 3, 1997. He was born in New York City, NY in 1918. He received his education at Fordham University, earning his B.S. in mathematics and physics & graduating Magna Cum Laude in 1939. He received his M.S. degree in chemical engineering at Columbia University in 1942. Mr. Goett began his career in 1942 with Charles Pfizer & Co. as Manager of Sales Development & a member of the Board of Directors. During this time, he developed a process to concentrate and produce drugs in a pure therapeutic form. In 1954 he joined Atlas Chemical Industries as Director of the Commercial Development Dept. Soon after, he was elected V.P. in charge of Chemical Research and Chemicals Division. He became a Director of the Company in 1954, member of the Company's Executive Committee in 1955, Senior VP in 1957 with the added responsibilities for industrial & public relations functions, Executive VP in 1958, President & Chief Administrative Officer in 1966, & Chief Executive Officer in 1968. Atlas Powder Co. became Atlas Chemical Industries in 1961, and in 1972 it was acquired by ICI Ltd. and merged with ICI America. Mr. Goett was President and Chief Executive Officer of ICI America until his retirement in 1980. Some of Mr. Goett's many awards & accomplishments in his career include the Achievement Award in the field of science from Fordham University Alumni Assoc. in 1956, the ''Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice'' medal (for Church and Pontiff) from Pope Paul, VI in 1965, the Annual Human Relations Award in 1969, the Engleston Medal for distinguished engineering achievement from the Columbia Engineering School Alumni Assoc. in 1978, and being named to the Delaware Business Leaders Hall of Fame in October of 1995. His professional memberships include the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, American Chemical Society, the American Institute of Chemists, past chairman of the American Branch of the Society of Chemical Industry. He also served as a member of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee of the Chemical Manufacturers Assoc., Director of the Bank of Delaware, Director of the United Community Fund of Northern Delaware, Inc., Director of the Greater Wilmington Development Council, Wilmington Metro Chairman of the National Alliance of Businessmen, and a member of the Conference Board. His other memberships include the Wilmington Club, Wilmington Country Club and Greenville Country Club in Delaware and Royal Poinciana Golf Club. He was a parishioner of St. William Catholic Church in Naples, Florida. He is survived by his wife of fifty-three years, Hazel S. Goett; his 3 daughters: Barbara Marie Goett of Pittsburgh, PA., Mary (Joseph) Greco of Chicago, IL., Linda (John) Collins of Naples, FL.; his sons: Edward (Barbara) Goett, Jr. of Naples, FL., James (Lucy) Goett of Fair Haven, New Jersey and Stephen (Carol) Goett of Bridgewater, New Jersey. Also surviving are 13 grandchildren, two great-grandchildren and his brother, Harry (Barbara) Goett of Los Altos Hills, California. Services will be held at St. William Catholic Church on Tuesday, July 8, 1997 at 10:00 AM. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests memorial contributions to the American Cancer Society.
      