
        MEIKLE-Thomas Harry, Jr. M.D. Of Roxbury, CT. Former dean of Cornell University Medical College. On July 19, 1997. Public memorial gathering at 3 PM Sunday, July 27 at the Roxbury Congregational Church Fellowship Hall, 24 Church St, Roxbury, CT. In lieu of flowers contributions to Roxbury Congregational Church, 24 Church Street, Roxbury, CT 06783 or the Parkinsons Disease Foundation, William Black Medical Research Building, Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, 650 West 168 Street, New York City 10032-9982.
        MEIKLE-Thomas H. Jr., M.D. Cornell University, Cornell University Medical College and The New York Hospital mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague, Thomas H. Meikle, M.D. A brilliant academician, Dr. Meikle received his undergraduate and medical degrees from Cornell. He served Cornell University Medical College for 26 years, including eight years as Dean, skillfully guiding the college during a challenging period for medical education. His leadership and dedication reshaped the way in which medical students are trained and influenced the contemporary dialogue on health care. He leaves a legacy of devotion to the art and science of medicine and an example of scholarship for generations to come. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Jacqueline Winterkorn, M.D., and to his family. Harold Tanner Chairman, Board of Trustees Cornell University Hunter R. Rawlings, III President Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Cornell University Medical College Antonio M. Gotto, Jr., M.D. The Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean John F. McGillicuddy Chairman, Board of Governors The New York Hospital David B. Skinner, M.D. President & CEO
        MEIKLE-Thomas H. Jr., M.D. On behalf of the entire faculty of Cell Biology and Anatomy at Cornell Unviersity Medical College, we express our sincere regret at the passing of a distinguished colleague and friend, Thomas H. Meikle, Jr., M.D. His devotion to academic excellence in both the Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences has left an indelible impression on this medical center. To his wife, Jacqueline Winterkorn, M.D., his family and loved ones, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Donald A. Fischman, M.D. Harvey Klein Professor of Biomedical Sciences Chairman, Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy
        MEIKLE-Thomas Jr., M.D. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation record with deep sorrow the death on Saturday July 19, 1997 of their esteemed colleague and good friend. As President and member of the Board of the Foundation from 1987 until his retirement in 1996, Dr. Meikle was a dedicated and compassionate leader. We will miss his good humor, warm and gracious friendship and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Clarence F. Michalis, Chairman of the Board June E. Osborn, President
        MEIKLE-Thomas H., Jr. M.D. The Morchand Center for Clinical Competence of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine is deeply saddened by the passing of Thomas H. Meikle Jr., M.D., a respected educator and loyal friend. His legacy of outstanding service to medicine and his strong support for improving medical education as past president of the Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation will long be remembered. To his wife and family, our heartfelt condolences. Mark H. Swartz, M.D., Director
        MEIKLE-Thomas, MD. I mourn the loss of a dear friend and colleague of many years; a dedicated scholar and humanitarian devoted to the advance of medical education. As Dean his widsom significantly enhanced the goals of Cornell University Medical College. Walter F. Riker, MD
      