
        BELLIN-Lowell, M.D. The President and the Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are deeply saddened by the death of Dr. Lowell Bellin, beloved father of Eran Bellin, M.D., our esteemed colleague and Director of Medical Services at Rikers Island Health Services. A highly respected physician, educator and public health advocate, Dr. Lowell Bellin enjoyed a distinguished career as Commissioner of Health in Springfield, Massachusetts, and New York City; headed the New York City Medicaid program at its inception; was author of the City Ordinance requiring childproof gates to be installed on apartment windows, and was professor and Chairman of the division of Public Health at Columbia University. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Talah; his children, Eran, Eva, and Aytan; his grandchildren and entire family. Spencer Foreman, M.D., President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        BELLIN-Lowell E., MD. The faculty, staff, Advisory Board and Alumni Association of the Columbia School of Public Health mourn the loss of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Lowell E. Bellin. A faculty member of the Columbia School of Public Health for many years, as Professor and Head of the Division of Health Administration, Dr. Bellin was admired by his many students as one of the most outstanding teachers in the long history of the School. He was a mentor to students and faculty alike. He will be greatly missed. To his family and friends, we extend our deepest sympathy on their loss. Allan Rosenfield, MD, Dean Columbia School of Public Health
        BELLIN-Lowell. It is with sadness that the Health Science Center community marks the death of its esteemed colleague and extends its sincere sympathies to his family. For three decades, Dr. Bellin was a faculty member or lecturer in the Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health. A former NYC Commissioner of Health, he was a staunch and eloquent advocate of the public's health. Eugene B. Feigelson, MD Interim President and Dean State University of New York Health Science Center at Brooklyn
        BELLIN-Lowell, M.D. The Board and Staff of the Medical and Health Research Association of NYC, Inc. mourn the loss of one of NYC's great public health leaders and one of our strong supporters. Condolences are extended to his family and many friends and colleagues. Raymond Fink, Ph.D., Chairperson Ellen Rautenberg, President/CEO
        BELLIN-Lowell E., M.D. The Faculty and staff of the Department of Preventive Medicine, SUNY, HSCB, mourns the passing of their esteemed colleague, and expresses their heartfelf sympathy to his widow, Talah, and his family. Pascal James Imperato, M.D. Professor and Chair
        BELLIN-Lowell E. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our member Aytan Bellin. May the entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President
      