
        SONDERLING-Egmont. We have lost a loving husband, a father and a grandfather-our beloved Egmont Sonderling. To those of us who loved him, his kindness and concern for others will forever be in our hearts. Egmont's life is the story of faith, hard work, dedication and commitment. We will all cherish the memories of how he expressed his feelings to each of us in his quiet, unassuming way. Egmont's journey to America, almost 75 years ago, began on an oil tanker which crossed the Atlantic Ocean. He came to Chester, Pennsylvania. As millions of European immigrants had done, Egmont came to the United States because he heard and believed that here the streets were paved with gold. He very much wanted to participate in the American Dream. He would often remark that when he first saw New York City he was simply overwhelmed. Over the years, his faith centered him in the belief that G-d must have been on his side. Egmont never forgot that just ten years after his arrival in America, the horror of Nazi Germany would be unleashed against his beloved people and all of mankind. Egmont Sonderling's destiny took him to Chicago where he became a visionary in the emerging fields of broadcasting, entertainment and advertising. In the ensuing 65 years, he built a company that would become one of the world's pioneer group broadcasting corporations, covering 11 major markets. His success touched a large chain of movie theaters in New England and New York. In 1980, the majority of his then publicly owned Sonderling Broadcast Corporation was merged in to Viacom International. Throughout these years of active, creative leadership, this wonderful man always remembered his humble origins, always remembered his family, was always concerned for the quality of life for all people. Egmont was truly forever grateful for the opportunities he found in America. His enthusiasm for life was unbounded. His life's experience instilled within him a deep, principled commitment to give something back to the people in the communities where he lived. He decided early on that his success was to be shared with others and he derived a tremendous sense of joy in being able to support many causes across the nation and around the world. Egmont Sonderling had a special feeling for the residents, tenants and clients of the Miami Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged at Douglas Gardens. He was always conscious of his heritage and grateful that he had been given the opportunity to escape the years of horror in Germany. In this way, as both a philanthropist and as a Board Member, he was deeply involved with an organization which aids Jewish elderly and which provides care to thousands of Floridians of all races, religions and creeds. Our beloved Egmont earned a reputation as a most generous host in his support of a long list of other worthy causes as well: medical research, the handicapped, and the arts, especially the Opera and Ballet. He became a Crown Jewel during the Golden Anniversary Season of the Opera and also served as Co-Chair of the Grand Opera Ball. Those of us who mourn this loving, decent and honorable man will cherish the bright dreams he dreamed and the love which we will share always. Survived by his devoted wife Marjorie Serralles Sonderling, loving children Roy and Bonnie Sonderling, Annik Serralles Wolf and Michael, Juan E. Serralles, IV and Rita, Marjorie E. Serralles Russell and Terrence, Mary Ann F. Serralles Alonso and Mark, cherished grandchildren Morgan Wolf and Juan E. Serralles, V.
        SONDERLING - Egmont. The Board of Directors, FOUNDERS, Auxilians, Volunteers, Corporate Administration and all the Staff Members of the Miami Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged at Douglas Gardens, join with the Home's residents, Irving Cypen Tower tenants, and participants of the organization's communitywide services in extending our heartfelt condolences to the family of Egmont Sonderling on the passing of this remarkable man, this steadfast friend, this extraordinary leader and pillar of our community. Egmont Sonderling was an inspirational man of vision, a guiding force behind the ongoing success of the Miami Jewish Home. As a member of our Board of Directors, he gave of his brilliance and business acumen to make the visions of the Home come to fruition. He served wisely as a member of our Board's Finance and Appropriations Committee, the Health and Human Services Committee, and was an Honorary Vice President of our Home. Egmont Sonderling was a Million Dollar FOUNDER of our Home, and upon presenting a multi-million dollar gift, with tears of joy welling in his eyes, he expressed his love for the elderly residents of our Home and how it brought him much joy to see their smiling faces and the dignity of life they were provided through the philanthropy of our community. He thanked G-d for having given him success in life and said he was so happy to be able to share his success with others, stating, ''I wanted this contribution to be made to an organization which is considered to be an example by which similar organizations throughout the western world judge their effectiveness.'' Throughout his wonderful life, this kind and special man never forgot his heritage, his struggles or his dreams. His lifetime of achievement was marked by his philanthropic generosity to many organizations and causes throughout the world. Mr. Sonderling's life stands as a monument to the American experience-that belief that dreams could come true. Egmont Sonderling's legacy will live forever at our Home as we watch the construction now occurring and prepare to open, in late 1998, the magnificent One Egmont Sonderling Place. This majestic tropical gateway, where thousands of elderly persons and their family members, volunteers, scholars, academicians, researchers, elected officials, legislators, clergy, workers, donors, students, youth, and people from all walks of life will pass through as they enter the Southeast's largest, most progressive and most comprehensive center for care of the elderly, will be a fitting memorial to one who so unselfishly gave of himself to make their lives a more beautiful daily experience. In tribute to their magnanimous gesture, Egmont and his beloved wife, Marjorie, were honored last December at the Home's 50th Anniversary Celebration, where an audience of 1,200 leaders of our community applauded his sterling career and his devotion to charitable causes. Our Chairman of the Board and Honorary President, Irving Cypen, expresses on this occasion that ''In each generation, there are only a handful of people who allow the guiding hand of the Almighty to work His loving kindness through them, and who give themselves as His servants, to guide our people and our world. We have lost such a man with the passing of Egmont Sonderling. We will sorely miss this true lover of righteousness standing firmly in our midst.'' It is difficult in our deep mourning to find words that express our feelings now, and we sincerely extend sympathy to Egmont's family: devoted wife Marjorie Serralles Sonderling, loving children and grandchildren, Roy and Bonnie Sonderling, Annik Serralles Wolf and Michael, Juan E. Serralles IV and Rita, Marjorie E. Serralles Russell and Terrence, Mary Ann F. Serralles Alonso and Mark, cherished grandchildren Morgan Wolf and Juan E. Serralles V. Irving Cypen Chairman of the Board and Honorary President; Harold Beck, President; Helen G. Rechtschaffer, FOUNDERS President; Dr. Seth B. Goldsmith, Chief Executive Officer; Terry C. Goodman, Executive Director; Dr. Daniel Brady, Executive Director, DGCMHC; Norma A. Orovitz, Director of Development
      