
        DOWNEY-Dorothy. A woman of great wit and warmth who loved people and politics, words and music, grammar and syntax, but above all, family and friends, died peacefully Friday at her home in North Salem, NY. She was eightynine. Born Dorothy Evelyn Paddock on May 17, 1908, she was the daughter of Ellen Meehan Paddock and Lewis Nathan Paddock of Providence, RI. There she graduated from famed Classical High School and later from The Katherine Gibbs School. Subsequently, she worked for the Providencebased Paddock Paper Company and continued her musical studies. She was an accomplished pianist and vocalist when she met and in 1933 married James Edward Downey of Hartford, CT. The couple lived in Providence until 1940. Dorothy and James Downey were blessed with four sons and then two daughters. As she would with her grandchildren a generation later, Dorothy imbued her children with an individual sense of uniqueness, values and fair play. She made each person she touched feel like the most important being in the world. The Downeys lived in the New Haven area throughout the 1940s and afterwards in Concord, MA. In 1954 they moved to Darien, CT. Some years later, following her husband's death in 1969, Dorothy relocated to her home in North Salem. Mrs. Downey is survived by her children: Dr. James L. Downey, a pediatrician of Winnetka, IL; Robert N. Downey, partner Goldman Sachs of NY; Steven M. Downey, Chairman DWT, Inc., of NY; Paul A. Downey, President of Downey Capital, of San Francisco; Eleanor Downey Martinez, former Senior Editor at NetRadio of NY; and Caroline Downey Abrams, Chief of Legislation and Legal Opinions, NYS Division of Human Rights, also of NY; a sister, Eleanor Paddock LaBonne, of Somers, NY; 19 grandchildren and three great grandchildren. For information, contact Clark Associates Funeral Home of Katonah, NY. Visiting hours will be on Monday evening from 6-8 PM at 4 Woods Bridge Road in Katonah. A funeral mass will be offered for Dorothy at St. Joseph's Church in Croton Falls, NY at 10 AM on Tuesday, July 29, 1997, with interment that afternoon at Old North Burial Ground in Providence, RI. In lieu of flowers, and in recognition of Dorothy's lifelong love of politics, women's rights and public service, donations are asked to be made in her name to ''Emily's List'' or to the American Cancer Society.
      