
        FRUCHTER-Rachel G. The Health Science Center community mourns the death of a dedicated and beloved faculty member and extends its profound sympathies to her family. Dr. Fruchter was a member of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for nearly 25 years. A respected researcher, she was committed to increasing access to health care for women, particularly among immigrants. She will be missed by her many friends and colleagues here on campus and throughout the city. A memorial service will be held on campus in the Health Science Education Building Grove on July 17 at 5 pm. Eugene B. Feigelson, MD Interim President and Dean State University of NY Health Science Center at Brooklyn
        FRUCHTER-Rachel G. Her many colleagues and co-workers at the HIV Center for Women and Children at SUNY Brooklyn mourn the death of a respected and caring health researcher. Her contribution to the science of women's health will be greatly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with her family. The staff of The HIV Center for Women and Children, SUNY Health Science Center at Brooklyn.
        FRUCHTER-Rachel G. Members of Community School Board 15 note with deep sorrow the passing of Rachel G. Fruchter, beloved wife of former School Board President Norman Fruchter. We extend deepest sympathies to Norm and the family. Casto Rodriguez Arbelo, Heriberto Barbot, Jr., Robert Bell, Betty Feibusch, Dana Fernandez, Jill Harris, Margaret Kelley, Bonnie Nuzum, Mark Peters
        FRUCHTER-Rachel. The Board and staff of the Campaign for Fiscal Equity extend our heartfelt condolences to our colleague Norm Fruchter and his children, Lev and Chenda on the untimely death of Rachel Fruchter. Robert Jackson, Chairperson Michael A. Rebell, Exec. Dir.
        FRUCHTER-Rachel. The Board and Staff of New Visions for Public Schools extend our heartfelt condolences to our mentor and friend, Norm Fruchter, on the death of his wife Rachel. Beth Lief, President Dick Beattie, Chairman
        FRUCHTER-Rachel. Our wonderful friend, colleague and mentor. Your love, work, and spirit will be with us forever. Deepest sympathy to Norm, Chendra, Lev, Jill and the whole family. New York Task Force on Immigrant Health.
        FRUCHTER - Rachel. Beloved friend of 34 years, Godmother to Daniel, it was a gift to have you among us. We join Norm, Lev, Chenda and Jill in mourning. David, Daniel, Jacob Gurin, Laura Simich
        FRUCHTER-Rachel. Our deepest sympathy to Norm and family. NY Networks for School Renewal
      