
        SCHWARTZ-Robert J. Jr. On July 15th, after a heroic struggle with lymphoma. Beloved and loving husband of Gail Ross and father of Matthew, Michael and Alexandra. Devoted son of Beatrice and Robert, stepmother Josephine Martin, and mother-in-law Matilda Ross. We have been blessed to know, love and be loved by such a kind, caring and intelligent person; we will miss him dearly. Born August 29, 1946 in Washington, D.C. Alumnus of Bucknell University, Lehigh University and Harvard Business School. Executive Vice President and Deputy Treasurer of Republic National Bank of New York, former Managing Director of the Mitsubishi Bank, Ltd., and former Managing Director of The Chase Manhattan Bank. Robert's professional dedication was to the field of financial engineering and derivative products, of which he was a pioneer. Co-editor of three books on the topic, founding Chairman of the International Association of Financial Engineering, a three-time board member of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, and a guest lecturer at Harvard, Columbia, Yale and St. John's Universities. Robert also committed himself to the work of the Windward School, a school for children with learning disabilities in White Plains, serving as a member of the board and President Emeritus of the Board of Trustees. Services on Sunday, 10 A.M., at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, NY. Burial will follow at Sharon Gardens in Valhalla, NY. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Windward School, Windward Avenue, White Plains, N.Y., 10605, or to Harvard Business School, Boston, MA. 02163.
        SCHWARTZ-Robert. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Staff of Windward School mourn the passing of Robert Schwartz, our esteemed past President and Treasurer. Robert Schwartz was a remarkable individual whose vision enabled Windward to become a premier institution for learning disabled children. His financial expertise and guidance were instrumental in our expansion, which enabled many more children to benefit from our instructional program. Robert Schwartz's legacy will live forever through all the students who pass through our doors each year. His wise counsel, compassion, dedication and commitment as well as his friendship, intellect and humor will be missed by all of us. Our deepest sympathy goes to his wife Gail and his children Matthew, Michael and Alexander.
        SCHWARTZ-Robert J. Jr. Republic National Bank of New York mourns the passing of a financial pioneer, a respected colleague, a dedicated community leader, and a loyal friend. Republic's directors, management and employees extend deepest sympathies to his wife Gail Ross; children Matthew, Michael and Alexandra; parents Beatrice and Robert Sr.; stepmother Josephine Martin; and motherin-law Matilda Ross.
        SCHWARTZ-Robert. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member, Robert Schwartz, husband of Gail Ross; father of Matthew, Michael and Alexandra and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Judith Schindler, Assoc. Rabbi
      