
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The officers, leadership, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Arthur Liman, a giant in the New York legal world. He and his wife, Ellen, have long been devoted friends & generous supporters of UJA-Federation, and leaders in the New York community. A partner in the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton and Garrison, he ensured that the firm would provide philanthropic leadership. Mr. Liman, a recipient of the Proskauer Award of the Lawyers Division, improved countless lives through his generosity, relentless pursuit of justice, and steadfast support for public service. His late brother-in-law, James H. Fogelson, was also an exceptional leader of UJA-Federation's Lawyer's Division, which established the James H. Fogelson Young Leadership Award in his memory in 1992 and awarded him the Proskauer Award posthumously. We extend our deep sympathies to his wife, Ellen; his children:, Emily, Douglas, and Lewis; his sister, Gladys Phillips; and the entire family. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Laurence Greenwald, Chair, Lawyers Division Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        LIMAN-Arthur L. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of the beloved husband of Ellen Fogelson Liman, a dear friend of the medical school. His legacy of outstanding service to his profession, to his community and to the nation is a sterling example to us all and continues the tradition established by the family of the late Emily and Joe Lowe, major supporters of our institution and our university. To Ellen and to the entire family, we offer our profound condolences. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers, Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The Board of Directors and staff of the Legal Action Center mourn with deep sorrow the passing of Arthur L. Liman, mensch, mentor, warrior for justice and our founding and only Chairman. Under his dedicated leadership for 25 years, the Center has fought discrimination at every level of society on behalf of people with histories of alcohol and drug problems, AIDS and criminal records. We have benefited from his extraordinary vision and unstinting commitment to public service, and we will sorely miss his counsel, wisdom and love. All who care about civil rights and social justice have lost a great champion. We send our deepest sympathy to his wife Ellen, his children, Emily, Douglas and Lewis, his sister Gladys, and his many friends and colleagues. Peter Barton Hutt, Vice Chairman Paul Nathan Samuels, Director/ President The Legal Action Center
        LIMAN-Arthur. The American Friends of the Hebrew University mourn with sorrow the passing of Arthur Liman, a distinguished lawyer and our loyal friend. He was an active member of our Council of Trustees and of our Lawyers Division. To his entire family, we extend our most profound condolences. The American Friends of the Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs President Lawrence Newman, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The officers, members and staff of The American Jewish Committee are saddened to learn of the passing of Arthur L. Liman. Colleague and supporter, champion of justice and friend to mankind, he gave generously of his time and energy. We were proud to be associated with him and to honor him with our Judge Learned Hand Human Relations Award. To his wife, Ellen, and all the grieving family, our heartfelt condolences. Robert S. Rifkind, President David A. Harris, Exec. Dir.
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The partners and staff of Alpine Capital Group mourn the passing of our lawyer, trusted advisor, colleague, mentor and dearest friend, Arthur L. Liman. Our deepest sympathy and condolences to his wife Ellen, his children Emily, Lewis and Douglas, and his law firm, Paul Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton and Garrison. We will miss him, but he will always remain a member of our family. He was truly one of a kind, a great man. Alpine Capital Group
        LIMAN-Arthur. The Westchester Arts Council Board of Trustees extends its deepest sympathy to our trustee Ellen Liman and her family upon the death of her esteemed husband, Arthur Liman. A. Maren Hexter, President
        LIMAN-Arthur. We are proud to have been part of your family. We love you. We will miss you. Aunt Annette, Cousin Judy, Jill and Jennifer
        LIMAN-Arthur L. A wonderful person, superb lawyer and very good friend. I will miss you and never forget you. Arthur N. Abbey
      