
        WEINER-Harry. On July 13, 1997. An innovator in the housewares industry and an advisor to New York City entrepreneurs. Immigrated to New York City in 1910 from Poland. In 1932, founded General Slicing Machine Company in Brooklyn, where he was responsible for award-winning and patented application of suctioncup technology to the bases of home and office equipment requiring a temporary anchor. After his retirement, in 1972, he dedicated himself to the New York office of the Service Corps of Retired Executives (SCORE). As a volunteer in and Presiden of the New York SCORE office for over a decade, he counseled prospective small business owners, providing them with the benefits of his business experience and expertise. Born February 22, 1905 in Brezno, Poland (now Ukraine) lived in Brooklyn, Spring Valley, and Newburgh, New York. Retired to Manhattan where he lived until moving to New Orleans in 1994. Survived by two sons, Walter, of Manhattan, and Roy, of New Orleans. He was Papa to ten grandchildren, and also leaves six great-grandchildren. His wife of 43 years, Sylvia Friefeld Weiner, died in 1972 at age 62; and his son Sidney, of Irvine, California, died in 1993 at age 61. Services Tuesday, 11:15 A.M. at The Riverside, West 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Burial will follow at the Jewish Community Center Cemetery in Spring Valley, New York. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Tulane Cancer Center, 1430 Tulane Avenue, New Orleans, LA. 70112.
        WEINER-Harry.Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourn the passing of a respected communal leader and devoted Zionist; father of Walter H. (and Nina) Weiner and Dr. Roy S. (and Marjorie) Weiner. Walter Weiner, an honorary alumnus, played a leadership role in the establishment of the Edmond J. Safra/Republic National Bank of New York Chair in Cardiovascular Medicine at AECOM. We extend our heartfelt condolences as well to grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick Chairperson, Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura Dean, AECOM
        WEINER-Harry. ISEF deeply mourns the passing of Harry Weiner z''l, beloved father of ISEF Trustee Walter H. Weiner and cherished father-in-law of ISEF President Nina A. Weiner. ISEF's thousands of students and supporters send heartfelt condolences to the entire Weiner family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. International Sephardic Education Foundation Sonny Gindi, Chairman
      