
        FARR-Dr. Lee Edward, one of the nation's preeminent physicians in nuclear and environmental medicine, died in Walnut Creek, CA on July 16, 1997 of cancer. A native of Albuquerque, New Mexico, Dr. Farr was born on October 13, 1907, the only child of Edward and Mabel Farr. He was a graduate of Albuquerque High School and went on to Yale University, and Yale University School of Medicine where he earned his M.D. in 1933 and remained to serve as an Assistant in Pediatrics. In 1934 Dr. Farr was appointed an Associate in Medicine at the Hospital of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research in New York City, and from 1940-1949 served as Director of Research and Physician-inChief at the Alfred I. Du Pont Institute of the Nemours Foundation, Wilmington, DE., where he researched and developed a treatment for nephrosis in children. Dr. Farr was named Medical Director, Chairman of the Medical Department and Physician-in-Chief of the Medical Research Center at Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton, NY in 1949. While at Brookhaven, he pioneered the design and construction of the world's first nuclear reactor built and used primarily for medical purposes. In 1962 the University of Texas in Houston appointed Dr. Farr Chief of the Section of Nuclear Medicine at M.D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute as well as Professor of Nuclear and Environmental Medicine, Professor of Environmental Health, and Chairman of the Department of Environmental Health at the University of Texas School of Public Health. In 1968 the California State Department of Public Health appointed Dr. Farr Chief of Emergency Health Services and Head of Disaster Health Services. He worked to establish the State of California Bureau of Emergency Medical Services of which he was named the first Chief in 1970, a post he held until his retirement in 1973. During World War II, Lieutenant Commander Farr served with the U.S. Navy as a Medical Officer aboard the U.S.S. Tryon, an armed hospital transport ship in the Pacific assigned to remove casualties from Guadalcanal. On active duty from 1942-1946, he retired from the Reserve in 1968 as a Captain in the Medical Corps. Beginning in 1970, Dr. Farr served as a member of the Advisory Committee on Naval Medical Research of the National Academy of Sciences and was a consultant to the U.S. Naval Medical Research Missions to Formosa and Taiwan. In addition to his Navy positions, Dr. Farr was a Consultant for many programs for the Atomic Energy Commission and was a member of the U.S. Delegation to the International Conference on Atomic Energy in Geneva in 1955. He was also selected in 1955 as a member of the Advisory Committee to the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission analyzing medical effects on atomic bomb victims and served as Chairman from 1955-1968. Dr. Farr received the Mead Johnson Award for research in Pediatrics in 1940, and was made an honorary member of the Medical Society of Athens and awarded the Gold Cross Order of Phoenix by Queen Frederlika of Greece in 1960 for his consulting work in nuclear medicine. The West German Republic in Bonn bestowed upon him the Order of Merit in 1963 for similar consulting work in Julich, Germany. Dr. Farr was the author of over 200 papers and articles on nuclear medicine, nuclear reactors, protein metabolism, emergency medical services, and radioactive and chemical environmental contaminants. Dr. Farr was widowed in 1984 upon the death of his wife of 48 years, Anne. He is survived by his wife of twelve years, Miriam Kirk Farr, by his children, Charles Edward Farr of Long Beach, CA, Susan Farr Armstrong of Walnut Creek, CA, and Frances Farr Torrey of Alamo, CA, by seven grandchildren, and one greatgrandchild. A memorial service will be held on Monday, July 21, at St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Walnut Creek, CA., at 11:00 A.M. The family prefers contributions to the Lee E. Farr M.D. Lectureship at Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street, New Haven, Connecticut 06520.
      