
        LIMAN-Arthur L. Survived by his loving family. Services at 12 noon today, Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 East 87th Street, New York. Contributions to Yale Law School Arthur L. Liman Fund for Public Interest, Box 208-215, New Haven, CT. 06520, Harvard University Recording Secretary's Office, 124 Mount Auburn Street, 4th Floor, Cambridge, MA. 02138 or Legal Action Center, 153 Waverly Place, New York City 10014.
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The Board of Directors, the President's Council, the management and staff of The Legal Aid Society are saddened by the death of Arthur L. Liman, one of the nation's most prominent attorneys and dedicated public servants and our beloved friend. His career embodied the highest tradition of the profession. He served with great dignity and distinction. His wise counsel, support and warmth, which he so willingly shared, and his deep commitment to social justice, were sources of great inspiration to all who had the good fortune of knowing him. The Society carries with great pride the imprint of his leadership and guidance to our work and to our clients, which spanned a period of twenty-five years. As President of the Society from 1983 to 1985, he mobilized the City's major law firms in a massive effort of pro bono service and encouraged all segments of the bar to participate in the Society's mission of providing quality legal services to the poor of New York City. His clients were among the most prominent & powerful, yet his commitments to equal justice for the poor and the improvement of the justice system are exemplified by his outstanding public service on city, state and national levels. He held our respect and won our hearts. He was a true servant of justice. We extend our profound sysmpathy to his wife, his children and to his firm. Daniel L. Greenberg, Exec Dir. and Attorney-in-Chief Michael J. Chepiga, Pres. Archibald R. Murray, Chair
        LIMAN-Arthur. The Morgenthau Association (an association of former Assistant United States Attorneys) mourn the loss of our dear friend and outstanding member, Arthur Liman. He was a distinguished lawyer and a fine and compassionate human being. His profound knowledge of the law was an inspiration to all of us. We will miss his friendship and his wisdom. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Ellen, his children, Emily, Lewis and Douglas. Robert M. Morgenthau And Morgenthau Association
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The partners, associates & staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison are profoundly saddened by the passing of Arthur L. Liman, our partner, mentor and friend for over thirty years. His profound intellect, energy, idealism and patriotism were evident in the service of his country, his profession, his community, his faith and of all who turned to him in need. Our deepest sympathy goes out to his wife Ellen, his 3 children: Lewis, Douglas & Emily and her husband, Donald Arnold; and sister, Gladys Phillips.
        LIMAN-Arthur. The Vera Institute of Justice joins with others in extending our condolences to the family of Arthur Liman, trustee of the Vera Institute since 1985. He also served two organizations that subsequently spun off from Vera, as chairman of the Legal Action Center of New York, and president of Neighborhood Defender Service of Harlem. His service to these organizations was unquantifiable. We are diminished by his loss. Frederick A.O. Schwarz, Jr., Chair Christopher Stone, President
        LIMAN-Arthur L. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. He brought honor to our congregation as he served the Jewish community and our Nation throughout his enormously productive life. We extend to his wife, Ellen, his children, Lewis, Emily (Don), Douglas, his sister Gladys (Gordon) and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Alan Levine, Ch. of the Bd. Robert P. Antler, President
        LIMAN-Arthur L. John A. Levin & Co. expresses profound sorrow on the passing of Arthur L. Liman and extends our deepest condolences to his family.
      