
        ALPER-Daniel Marcus. August 20, 1997. Cherished son of Marilyn and the late Howard. Beloved brother of Joshua and the late Michael. Loved nephew of Linda and Victor Bakian and Charles and Connie Gagliardi. Dear cousin of Amanda, Marielle, Ann, Nicola and Jennifer. Adored godson of Marcia Thaler. A wonderful friend, Camp Scatico counsellor extraordinaire, lover of Shakespeare and life. Riverdale Country School Class of 1997. Dan will be missed by all who knew him. Contributions may be made to Central Synagogue. Services 1 pm on Friday, Aug 22, Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83rd St, NY, NY.
        ALPER-Daniel M. Our class has just lost a great friend. We all loved you. You had a wonderful sense of humor and brightened up our lives. You always walked the Riverdale campus with an arm around one of us. You listened to us as befitting a close friend and you cared. We trusted you. You had a special sensitivity to our problems and our needs. You always looked good - in either Polo or Armani. You were a real people person and we enjoyed being in your company. You loved to write and produce movies and could have done so much with those skills. You never outgrew your love for Disney World. You were still a child at heart. You and your younger brother, Michael, will be deeply missed by the entire Riverdale community. We send our love to your mother, Marilyn, and your older brother, Josh. As for our class, you have created a huge void which cannot be filled. You will be in our hearts today and every day. Your Riverdale friends
        ALPER-Daniel. The love of my life is gone and with him he has taken a piece of my heart. This empty place is now filled with pain and sadness. Someone as special as Daniel did not deserve to be removed from this earth; especially not at such a young age. No matter what, Dan is and will always be a part of me...now, in 4 years, in 10 years, and forever. He has touched my life and has filled me with unbounded happiness. Dan, know that I love you and that you remain a part of me always. Marilyn and Josh, my heart goes out to you and I can only imagine the pain you are suffering over the tragic loss of Daniel and Michael. Please know that I am always here for either of you and please don't ever forget how special Daniel is. Elana
        ALPER-Daniel and Michael. It is with great sorrow that the leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the tragic and untimely passing of Daniel and Michael Alper, beloved children of Marilyn Marcus Alper. Mrs. Alper, a longtime supporter of our Women's Campaign, is also the president of Camp Isabella Freedman, a beneficiary of UJA-Federation. Our deepest sympathies go to Mrs. Alper and to her son, Joshua, and the entire family. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Susan Stern, Chair, Women's Campaign Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        ALPER-Daniel and Michael. ''Arise, cry out in the night at the beginning of the watches; Pour out thy heart like water before the face of Adonai; Lift up thy hands toward God for the life of thy young children...'' (Lamentations 2:19). The Central Synagogue community cries out, mourning the loss of two beloved children, Daniel and Michael Alper. In grief, we extend our hands to God; in sympathy and comfort, we extend our hands to Marilyn and Joshua Alper. ''My soul hath them still in remembrance and is bowed down low within me. This I recall to my mind, therefore I have hope.'' (Lamentations 3:20-21). Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President
        ALPER-Daniel M. and Michael D. The entire Riverdale Country School community mourns with profound sorrow the tragic deaths of these two much-beloved members of our school. We extend our deepest and most heartfelt sympathy to their mother, Marilyn, and their brother, Joshua. Board of Trustees, John R. Johnson, Headmaster, John C. Gulla, Assoc. Headmaster/ Head of Upper School
        ALPER-Daniel and Michael. The Riverdale Country School Parents Association sends its love and a promise of our constant comfort to Marilyn, our friend and esteemed Executive Board member, and to Josh. Our school family is shattered. We grieve for sweet, vibrant Dan and Michael as if they were our own. Patricia Weiss, President
        ALPER-Daniel and Michael. In the too few years that were granted to Daniel and Michael, they brought love and loyalty to an ever-widening circle of friends. We grieve. ''Lift them up tenderly, handle with care.'' Camp Scatico
        ALPER-Daniel and Michael. Your untimely deaths have created a permanent hole in our lives. Our hearts go out to you, Marilyn and Josh. Love, the Bidermans
        ALPER-Daniel. Dan, you were like an older brother to me and like Elana, I will always love you. You will be missed by all of us. Love, Freddy
        ALPER-Daniel and Michael. With us forever. Our darling sons and brothers. Marcia, Karen and Lawrence
        ALPER-Daniel and Michael. The Board and Staff of Camp Isabella Freedman as a community mourn the passing of Daniel and Michael, beloved sons of Marilyn Marcus Alper, President of our Board. We extend our heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family.
      