
        COOPERBERG - Irving. The Board, Staff and Volunteers of the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center mourn the passing of our Founding President and dear friend and colleague, Irving Cooperberg. Irving had the foresight, determination, humor, and tenacity required to guide the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center through its early years. His generosity and determination played a key role in securing the building which is now the Center's home. Irving led the Center's first critical fund raising campaign, spurring other members of our community to follow his generous lead. Upon completion of his term as President (May 1987), Irving was named President Emeritus by the Center's Board of Director in 1988. Together with Lou Rittmaster, his lover of 25 years, Irving continued his fundraising efforts for the Center. Irving's wisdom and generous spirit were present in his devotion to New York's gay and lesbian synagogue, Congregation Beth Simchat Torah, where he served as Chairman for six of his fifteen years as a member of the Board. His smile and laughter overcame even the darkest hours, and he faced his twelve year struggle with HIV and AIDS with a courage none of us will forget. Through his example we learned about living and not dying with HIV. He was, simply put, a true Mensch. Our deepest sympathy and love go to his devoted lover, Lou Rittmaster. Everyone at the Center will miss Irving more than words can say, and we are forever indebted to him for sharing a vision and spirit that lights our path to a brighter tomorrow for future generations of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. Judith E. Turkel, Esq President Richard D. Burns, Esq Executive Director Michael Seltzer Board Co-Chair Janet Weinberg Board Co-Chair Lesbian & Gay Community Services Center
        COOPERBERG - Irving. God's Love We Deliver mourns the loss of such a strong leader for gay and lesbian rights, and for the rights of those battling AIDS. We will miss you. Kathy Spahn, Executive Director Richard E. Feldman, Chair, Board of Directors
      