
        BAER-Rudolf L., M.D. of New York City, July 31. Loving father of John R. Baer and the late Andrew R. Baer; cherished brother of Eva Baer; adored grandfather of David, Jessica, Alexandra and Abigail; father-in-law of Sherri Baer; brother-in-law of Elizabeth and Henry Werner and Virginia and George Grumbach. Also survived by special friend, Hilda Seligmann. The family would like to express its sincerest appreciation to the doctors, nurses and others who cared for Dr. Baer during his illness. A memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in his name to: Rudolf L. Baer Foundation, C/O Department of Dermatology, New York University Medical Center, 550 First Avenue, New York, New York 10016-6402.
        BAER-Rudolf L. The entire community of the New York University Medical Center deeply mourns the passing of our reknowned colleague, Dr. Rudolf Baer, an outstanding member of the faculty of the NYU School of Medicine for 55 years. He was the epitomy of a gentleman and a scholar. A most beloved Chairman of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology for over 20 years. During his tenure as Chairman, the Department developed to be the leading academic and clinical dermatology service in the US. Through his productivity, he set the direction of modern research in dermatology. As a physician/ scientist, he influenced the training of an entire generation of young dermatologists in cell biology, biochemistry and immunology. A whole new era of clinical investigation was developed by his efforts. He received numerous awards, honors and citations and was elected to the highest offices by his colleagues nationally and internationally. Every major dermatological society benefitted from his wisdom and clinical acumen. Dr. Baer was respected and admired by his peers throughout the world. A gentle and wise man who became a role model as a physician, spouse, father, grandfather and brother. A mentor to all who knew him. He was a constant presence at NYU until the last days of his life. He and his beloved late spouse, Louise, were loved and highly respected by all of us at NYU and in many places around the world. It was tragic to learn of the passing of his devoted son, Andrew during the same week of his own death. He will indeed be forever remembered by his colleagues and peers everywhere. We offer our deep condolences to his son John and the entire family. Lawrence A. Tisch, Chairman NYU Board of Trustees L. Jay Oliva, President NYU E. John Rosenwald Chairman, NYU Medical Cntr Bd Saul J. Farber, M.D. Provost and Dean NYU Medical Center and School of Medicine
        BAER-Rudolf L. The faculty, alumni, residents and staff of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New York University, record with profound sorrow the death of Dr. Rudolf L. Baer, a faculty member from 1942 until 1997 and Chairman of our Department from 1961 to 1981. Rudy was a gifted, caring physician; an innovative, world-renowned scientist; an exemplary teacher; a leader who held high administrative positions in all of the major national and international dermatological organizations; and, most importantly, a true gentleman and loyal friend. Although he will be deeply missed, the generations of dermatologists whom he trained will ensure that the Baer tradition of excellence will survive. We offer our sincerest condolences to the members of his family, who have suffered so many recent painful losses. Irwin M. Freedberg, M.D. George Miller MacKee Professor and Chairman
        BAER-Rudolf L. The Society for Investigative Dermatology mourns the passing of Rudolf Baer, MD, one of the founding pillars of our Society and a friend and mentor who made enormous contributions to medicine and investigative dermatology. Gerald S. Lazarus, MD President, SID
      