
        SHEINKER-Myra R., age 61, 37year resident of Roslyn, LI, NY, on August 11, 1997, after a courageous and valiant struggle against illness. Commissioner of the Garden City Park Water/Fire District for the past 24 years; senior commissioner and Chairperson of the Board. First woman ever elected as a water or fire commissioner in New York State. Founder and President of Harmony Travel, Inc, a leader in corporate, governmental and institutional travel. Past President, Hamilton Park (Roslyn, LI) Civic Association. Executive Board Member, Nassau County Association of Fire Districts. Former First Vice-Chairperson, LI Water Conference. Affiliated with American Water Works Association, Water Environment Federation, Society of Women Engineers, International Association of Fire Chiefs, National Fire Prevention Association. Born in Brooklyn, New York, Commissioner Sheinker received a BS degree from Adelphi University and did graduate work at Michigan State University in the field of water and wastewater utility management. She was an acknowledged leader and innovator in all her professional and community endeavors, and a warm and caring friend to many. Survived by her husband of 41 years William, three loving children, Taran Chernin, Craig and Kerrie, devoted son-in-law Howard Chernin, adoring grandchildren Amanda, Cara and Jenna, cherished brother and sister-in-law Seymour and Eleanor Krinsky, and dear nephews Scott and Glen Krinsky. Predeceased by her beloved parents, Fay and George Krinsky. Services Wednesday, August 13, 1997, 1:00 PM, at Sunset Chapels, Inc, 1285 Northern Boulevard, Manhasset, LI, NY. Burial immediately following at New Montefiore Cemetery, Farmingdale, LI. Memorial gifts to Garden City Park Fire Department-Subscription Fund, 333 Marcus Avenue, Garden City Park, NY 11040 would be appreciated.
        SHEINKER-Myra. Commissioner Myra R. The Garden City Park (LI) Fire District and Garden City Park Fire Department express their profound sense of loss on the passing of the esteemed senior commissioner of the District, Hon. Myra R. Sheinker. The first womam ever elected as a water or fire commissioner in New York State, she exemplified dedication and commitment in community and elected service. She was an innovator in public water supply management, a staunch supporter of the volunteer fire service, a good friend to numerous volunteer firefighters, and a leader in establishment of the District's Rescue Squad. She was a highly intelligent and gifted public servant who will be sorely missed and whose example will guide us in the years to come. She was as strong and courageous during her illness and final days as she was during the rest of her life. Sympathies are extended to her husband Bill and children Taran, Craig and Kerrie, as well as to the entire family. Board of Commissioners Garden City Park Water/ Fire District Alan H. Cooper, Secretary Frank Boccio, Treasurer John J. Sweeney, District Supervisor Garden City Park Fire Department Glenn E. Schaefering, Chief of Department
        SHEINKER-Myra. We sadly mourn the passing of Myra Sheinker, owner of Harmony Travel, and extend our heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Her hard work and devotion to the success of our agency will not be forgotten. We'll miss you Myra. The Staff at Harmony
      