
        CASTAGNO - PETTIT - Marion Macdonald Castagno-Pettit, M.D., of West Hartford, CT., wife of James G. Pettit, died on Tuesday (August 19, 1997) at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center. She was born in West Somerville, MA, the youngest daughter of the late Angus A. and Catharine Boland Macdonald. She graduated from Boston University and earned her medical degree from Boston University School of Medicine. She completed a rotating internship and residency in ophthalmology at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn, NY, where she also held a teaching fellowship. She practiced ophthalmology in Brooklyn and headed the Eye Clinic at the Metropolitan Insurance Company for several years before moving to Hartford in 1949; she has lived in West Hartford since 1956. Dr. Castagno-Pettit practiced ophthalmology in Hartford from 1949 until April 1997; she held the distinction of being the first female ophthalmologist to practice in Connecticut, and the first woman to perform surgery at both Hartford Hospital and St. Francis Hospital. For many years she served as editor of The Yearbook of Cancer. She regularly volunteered her services at glaucoma clinics throughout the state. Dr. Castagno-Pettit received numerous honors during her career, including the 1988 Woman of the Year Award from the Greater Hartford Business and Professional Women's Club and the 1989 Columbus Day Humanitarian Award. She was an active member of St. Peter Claver Church in West Hartford, and served on the church's Parish Council. She was a member of the Hartford Jazz Society for many years. Besides her husband, Dr. Castagno-Pettit is survived by a sister, Eleanor J. Macdonald, of Houston, TX; a daughter, Frances R. Castagno of New Britain; five sons; Anthony J. Castagno and his wife Karen, of North Stonington; Dr. Paul C. Castagno and his wife Molly, of Tuscaloosa, AL; Charles M. Castagno, of Laguna Niguel, CA; Richard A. Castagno, of West Hartford; Joseph M. Castagno and his wife Doris, of Woodbury; two stepdaughters, Anne Pettit Conway and her husband Jay, and Mary Pettit Orluk and her husband Lawrence, all of West Hartford; and a stepson, James A. Pettit and his wife Christine, also of West Hartford; she is also survived by eight grandchildren and a greatgranddaughter. She was predeceased by her first husband, Rowe A. Castagno, M.D., & two brothers and two sisters. Calling hours will be today from 4 to 8 P.M. at the Sheehan-Hilborn-Breen Funeral Home, 1084 New Britain Avenue, West Hartford. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at 11 AM, Friday at St. Peter Claver Church, 47 Pleasant St., West Hartford. Interment will follow at Fairview Cemetery. Memorial contributions may be made to St. Peter Claver Church or to the St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center Foundation, 114 Woodland Street, Hartford, CT. 06105.
      