
        JAFFE-Leo, on August 20, 1997. He is survived by his loving wife Anita; his son Howard; his daughter Marcia, her husband Gene and children Todd and Dana; his son Stanley, his wife Melinda and children Robert, Betsy, Alexander & Katie; his son Ira, his wife Sonda, and children Wendy, Eric and Lea; his daughter Andrea; his stepdaughter Marilyn Hessel, her husband George; and two greatgrandchildren Alexander and Tyler. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Thursday, August 21st between 6-9PM. Services Friday, August 22, 11 AM, Temple EmanuEl, Fifth Ave. and 65th St. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Children's Blood Foundation, 333 E. 38th St., Suite 830, NY, NY 10016; March of Dimes, 233 Park Avenue South, NY, NY 10003; or NYU, attention: Naomi Levine, 70 Washington Square South, NY, NY 10012.
        JAFFE-Leo. The Board of Directors, volunteers and staff of the Greater New York Chapter of the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation mourn the passing of their good friend, Leo Jaffe. Mr. Jaffe served as Board Chairman of the Greater New York Chapter from 1976 to 1978, and as Honorary Chair since then. The Greater New York March of Dimes awarded the first annual Leo Jaffe Distinquished Volunteer Service Award in 1987 in honor of volunteer service exemplified by Leo Jaffe. Leo Jaffe carried on the tradition of the motion picture industry's support of the March of Dimes which had been inherited from the days of FDR and Eddie Cantor. The Greater New York March of Dimes staff and volunteers extend their deepest sympathy to the Jaffe family. Lawrence J. Aiken Chairman of the Board Esther R. Dyer, Exec Dir Great New York March of Dimes
        JAFFE-Leo. The Officers and Directors of the Children's Blood Foundation note with great sadness the passing of Leo Jaffe, father of our esteemed Chairman, Stanley R. Jaffe. We wish to extend our sincerest sympathy to Stanley, his wife Melinda, our fellow board member, their children and family on their lost. Margaret W. Hilgartner, MD, Pres Lawrence D. Bass, Vice President Susan R. Byrne, Exec Director
        JAFFE-Leo. Our dear and old friend, we will miss you. Our deepest sympathies to Anita and the family. Muriel and Bernie Myerson
        JAFFE-Leo. Our deepest sympathy to Anita and the entire Jaffe family. He was a dear friend and we will miss him very, very much. Bob and Claire Rosen
        JAFFE-Leo. We will miss our dear friend, Leo, and extend our love and sympathy to Anita and family. Suzanne and Jerry Berns
        JAFFE-Leo. Farewell to our dear friend and great humanitarian. You will truly be missed. Dorothy and Bert Ostrau
      