
        JAFFE-Leo, on August 20, 1997. He is survived by his loving wife Anita; his son Howard; his daughter Marcia, her husband Gene and children Todd and Dana; his son Stanley, his wife Melinda and children Robert, Betsy, Alexander & Katie; his son Ira, his wife Sonda, and children Wendy, Eric and Lea; his daughter Andrea; his stepdaughter Marilyn Hessel, her husband George; and two greatgrandchildren Alexander and Tyler. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Thursday, August 21st between 6-9PM. Services Friday, August 22, 11 AM, Temple EmanuEl, Fifth Ave. and 65th St. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Children's Blood Foundation, 333 E. 38th St., Suite 830, NY, NY 10016; March of Dimes, 233 Park Avenue South, NY, NY 10003; or NYU, attention: Naomi Levine, 70 Washington Square South, NY, NY 10012.
        JAFFE-Leo. The President and the Board of Trustees of New York University mourn the death of our esteemed colleague, Leo Jaffe. He has played an active role in the life of the University for more than fifty years: as a 1931 alumnus of the School of Commerce, as a Life Trustee, as an active participant in the Tisch School of the Arts, and as a recipient of a Presidential Citation. His love of motion pictures and his commitment to education in the arts earned him the deep respect, abiding affection and sincere admiration of all in the University community, demonstrated most clearly in the dedication of the Leo Jaffe Theatre in his honor in 1986. L. Jay Oliva, President Laurence A. Tisch, Chairman
        JAFFE-Leo. The Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of the national office of the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Board Member Leo Jaffe. A volunteer since 1967, Mr. Jaffe served on the Board from 1979 to 1983. For his efforts on behalf of America's mothers and babies, Mr. Jaffe was named Humanitarian of the Year by the March of Dimes in 1969. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Jennifer L. Howse, PhD, Pres. Richard J. Freeman, Chairman of the Board March of Dimes
        JAFFE-Leo. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member and former Member of the Board of Governors, Friar Leo Jaffe, on August 20, 1997. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Friday, Aug. 22, 11 AM, Temple Emanu-El, East 65th and Fifth Avenue. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean Pierre Trebot, Exec. Dir.
        JAFFE-Leo. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Leo Jaffe. With his family we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        JAFFE-Leo. The Board of Directors of the New York Friars Foundation mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Leo Jaffe, on Aug. 20, 1997. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Friday, Aug. 22 at 11 AM at Temple Emanu-El, East 65th and Fifth Ave. Hon. Abraham D. Beame, Chmn Leo Greenland, President
        JAFFE-Leo. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member Leo Jaffe. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife Anita and to all his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors Norman Zarkin, President
        JAFFE-Leo. Our deepest sympathy to Anita and the whole Jaffee family. We will miss our dear friend, Leo. Margot and Fred Collins Vicki and Steven Haupt
      