
        BAER-Rudolf L., M.D. of New York City, July 31. Loving father of John R. Baer and the late Andrew R. Baer; cherished brother of Eva Baer; adored grandfather of David, Jessica, Alexandra and Abigail; father-in-law of Sherri Baer; brother-in-law of Elizabeth and Henry Werner and Virginia and George Grumbach. Also survived by special friend, Hilda Seligmann. The family would like to express its sincerest appreciation to the doctors, nurses and others who cared for Dr. Baer during his illness. A memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in his name to: Rudolf L. Baer Foundation, C/O Department of Dermatology, New York University Medical Center, 550 First Avenue, New York, New York 10016-6402.
        BAER-Rudolf L., MD. The Directors of the Rudolf L. Baer Foundation for Skin Diseases, Inc., mark with profound sorrow the passing of our founder. Epitomizing Dr. Baer's commitment to the future, the Foundation was created by him to encourage the work of young research scientists in the field of dermatology. Dr. Baer left a lasting impression on family, friends, patients, and colleagues in all disciplines. Through the Foundation and the Rudolf L. Baer Professorship of Dermatology at NYU, established in 1986, Dr. Baer's goal will be met in perpetuity.
        BAER-Rudolf, L. MD. The Department of Dermatology of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center recognizes the unique contributions of Dr. Rudolf L. Baer to the field of Dermatology in New York and the world. His career as a faculty member and Chair of the Department of Dermatology at New York University helped make the Skin Cancer Unit an international leader in our specialty. His leadership, integrety and commitment to excellence remain examples for us all. We extend our condolences to the Baer Family. Colleagues and Friends Department of Dermatology
        BAER-Rudolf, L. MD. We are deeply saddened by the death of Dr. Rudolf L. Baer. Rudy was an extraordinary man whose life spanned most of the 20th Century. He committed himself totally to his profession and thereby made substantive contributions recognized around the world. It was also our special privilege to experience and benefit from his wisdom as a mentor, teacher, gourmet and close friend. We feel uniquely fortunate to have known him and extend our deepest sympathy to his son John and the Baer family. The Bickers Family
        BAER-Rudolf, L. MD. The Bicontinental Association for Education and Research (BAER) recognizes the inspirational commitment of Dr. Rudolf L. Baer to strengthening the scientific base of dermatology. This organization, named in his honor, is dedicated to fostering international scholarly exchange in our field. We mourn his passing and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. David R. Bickers, M.D. Gunter Burg, M.D. Hans Merk, M.D.
      