
        HARRIS-Mary Jeanne. Of Brookville, L.I. on August 19, 1997. Beloved wife of Henry U. Harris, Jr., mother of Henry U. III (Eleanor M.), Jonathan M. (Cynthia B.) and Peter W. (Harriet R.), sister of Margaret J. Crump, grandmother of nine. Funeral Mass St. Paul the Apostle RC Church, Brookville, on Saturday, August 23, at 11 AM. Interment private. In lieu of flowers a donation may be made to The American Red Cross, Nassau Chapter, 264 Old Country Road, Mineola, N.Y. 11501 or Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, P.O. Box 100, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. 11724 or the Garden Club of America, 596 Madison Avenue, NYC 10022.
        HARRIS-Mary Jeanne. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Mary Jeanne Harris, wife of our Chairman Emeritus, Henry U. Harris, Jr., who joined the Hospital Board in 1961 and served with distinction as Chairman from 1972 to 1988. Mrs. Harris' deep devotion to her family, her inner strengths and gentle kindness combined to make her an inspiration to all who knew her and lent invaluable support to her husband's dedicated efforts in leading the Hospital toward the fulfillment of its mission of service. She will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to Mr. Harris, sons Henry III, Jonathan and Peter and to the entire Harris family. Richard L. Menschel Winfield P. Jones Co-Chairmen of the Board of Trustees John R. Ahearn John R. Reynolds Co-Chief Executive Officers Russell F. Warren, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief Philip D. Wilson, Jr., M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief Emeritus
        HARRIS-Mary Jeanne. The Board of Directors, Medical Staff and Administration of Burke Rehabilitation Hospital mourn with deep sorrow the loss of Mary Jeanne Harris, wife of our dear friend and Director, Emeritus, Henry U. Harris. She was a tower of strength and loving support to her family, an ardent supporter of our mission and an inspiration to our staff who speak of her with love and respect. We extend our deepest condolences to Mr. Harris, and sons Henry II, Jonathan and Peter. Peter J. De Luca President of the Board Mary Beth Walsh, M.D. Chief Executive Officer John J. Ryan Executive Director
      