
        MOSBACHER-Emil ''Bus'', Jr., 75, died Wednesday, August 13, at home in Greenwich, CT. Devoted husband of Patricia Ryan. Dear father of Emil III, R. Bruce and John. Loving father-in-law of Nancy. Adored grandfather of Jack and Emily. Dear brother of Barbara, brother of Robert. A memorial will be held at 4 PM on September 8th at the New York Yacht Club, where Mr. Mosbacher served as Commodore. Mr. Mosbacher was born in White Plains in 1922, graduated from Dartmouth College and served as an Officer in the Navy. Mr. Mosbacher served as the Chief of Protocol of the United States from 1969 to 1972, and as Chairman of Operation Sail. He served as a director of Chemical Banking Corporation, Chubb Corporation, Avon Products, Inc., United Merchants and Manufacturer's Co., Lily Tulip Cup Corp., Abercrombie & Fitch Corp., Dollar Savings Bank, Amax, Inc., Amax Gold, Inc. and Putnam Trust Company. He was an Honorary Life Trustee of Lenox Hill Hospital, & a former chairman of the Hoover Institute of Stanford University. The family requests contributions be sent to the Elliot W. Strong Endowed Chair, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York, 10022.
        MOSBACHER-Emil Jr. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Emil Mosbacher, Jr., a devoted friend and benefactor of the Hospital and husband of Patricia Mosbacher whose many years of outstanding service on Special Surgery's Board is inspirational. We extend our deepest sympathy to our dedicated Trustee, sons Emil III, R. Bruce and John and to the entire Mosbacher family. Richard L. Menschel Winfield P. Jones Co-Chairmen of the Board of Trustees John R. Ahearn John R. Reynolds Co-Chief Executive Officers Russell F. Warren, MD, Surgeon-in-Chief
        MOSBACHER-Emil, Jr. (Bus). The Trustees, Members and Volunteers of the South Street Seaport Museum mourn the passing of Emil (Bus) Mosbacher, Jr. Loving husband of our esteemed Trustee Patricia and valued friend of the Museum. A true gentleman, a yachtsman who enjoyed the admiration and respect of his peers, a distinguished and patriotic American & a champion of maritime history, Bus Mosbacher will be sorely missed. Our condolences to Pat and the entire family. Peter A. Aron, Chairman Peter Neill, President
        MOSBACHER-Emil Jr. Mona Mansell and the Directors of the Board of Freedom Institute extend heartfelt condolences to our vice chairman, Patricia Mosbacher, on the death of her beloved ''Bus.'' Emil Mosbacher Jr.'s great generosity to Freedom Institute over the past twenty years will continue to be appreciated in the memory of all whose lives have been changed and enriched. We send our love and prayers to Pat and her entire family. Mona L. Mansell, Chairman Board of Directors Freedom Institute
        MOSBACHER-Emil Jr. (Bus). The Officers and Trustees of The New York Sports Museum & Hall of Fame regret the passing of a charter member of the New York Sports Hall of Fame on August 13, in Greenwich, Connecticut. Bill Shannon, President Jordan Sprechman, Secretary
        MOSBACHER-Emil. The Trustees of The Arnold D. Frese Foundation mourn the loss of their fellow trustee, Emil Mosbacher, Jr. His wise counsel and sage advice will be greatly missed. We extend our sincere condolences to all of his family.
      