
        COLEMAN-George L., 85, of Hobe Sound, Florida, died July 23, 1997. He was engaged in mining and oil businesses and was an avid sportsman, who was a close friend of Ben Hogan and Bing Crosby. Born in Miami, OK. on Jan 1, 1912, Mr. Coleman attended Western Academy in Alton, IL., and attended the Univ of Ok. Mr. Coleman was an executive in a lead and zinc mining company and a truck manufacturing company. Later he was chairman of the board and president of the First National Bank in Miami, OK. Mr. Coleman was a director of Flo-Sun Incorporated and a director of Pennzoil Company and its predecessor companies for 33 years. Former corporate directorships included the Detroit Baseball Company, Chris Craft Industries and the Ben Hogan Company. During World War II, Mr. Coleman served in the Army Air Corp Reserves and U.S. Naval Reserve. As an experienced pilot, he served as director of the Spartan School of Aeronautics at Muskogee, OK. and was responsible for training 450 pilots at a time and maintaining a large fleet of aircraft. Later, he was commissioned a Lt. j.g. in the Navy, assigned to the Naval Air Transport Squadron VR-9 and then to the Bureau of Aeronautics. Mr. Coleman won various outboard motor boat (hydroplane) races and held the first recognized national and international records over 60 and 70 m.p.h. He loved golf and excelled in various amateur tournaments, was Oklahoma State Golf Champion in 1946 and played in the British Amateur, French Amateur and Swiss Amateur. Mr. Coleman was a member of the Board of Governors of Seminole Golf Club, Juno Beach, FL. since 1958 and served as President from 1981 to 1992 and then became President Emeritus. Mr. Coleman had the longest membership (60 years) in the Cypress Point Club, Pebble Beach, CA. Other memberships included the Augusta National Golf Club, Augusta, GA, Brook Club, N.Y., N.Y., Castle Pines Golf Club, Castle Rock, CO and Jupiter Island Club, Hobe Sound, FL. He is survived by his wife Dawn Coleman, daughters from a previous marriage, Ann Coleman Carmack of Santa Fe, Sarah Coleman Cecconi of Venice, Italy and Dobbie Bassett de Segur of Middleburg, VA., grandchildren, Frederick Woolworth, Georgina Woolworth Johnson and Caroline Bassett and 4 great grandchildren. A memorial service is planned for late October in Hobe Sound, FL. Memorial contributions may be made to Robert T. Jones, Jr. Memorial Scholarship Fund, C/O Thomas W. Burke, 555 Fifth Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, New York 10017 or AmeriCares, 161 Cherry Street, New Canaan, Connecticut 06840.
      