
        DE CASTRO-Jose Sergio Tavora. June 20, 1933-August 16, 1997. We will all remember the way he embraced life and captivated those around him. He was successful in all his endeavors: academic, professional and personal. Born in Fortaleza, Brazil, he was the son of Sergio de Castro and Idalina Tavora de Castro. He was a loving son, brother, spouse and father. He graduated from law school at the Universidade Federal do Ceara in 1953. His dreams began to unfold when he was awarded both Fulbright and Rotary scholarships to study in the U.S. Accepting the latter, he pursued international law at Yale University, graduating in 1957. He met his first wife, Emilia Faro, while working at Petrobras in NY. His career flourished at Banco Real, where he earned the title of Deputy Regional Director-North America. It was here that he found his second family. Sergio is survived by his children Diana and Nelson, by his fiancee Sumie Ogata, and by his siblings, Jose Valter, Jose Valdomiro, Rita, Helena, Sarah, Regina and Theresa, all of whom were by his side at his time of greatest need. He is now in the company of his loving parents and brother Clemente. There are no words to express just how much we will miss him. Love, Diana and Nelson.
        de CASTRO-Jose Sergio Tavora. After a long illness died peacefully August 16, 1997. Mr. de Castro graduated from Universidade Federal Do Ceara in 1953 with a law degree. He was awarded two scholarships, Fulbright and Rotary. He chose the latter and studied International Law at Yale University graduating in 1957. He leaves many friends in the International Banking Community of which he was an active participant for over 20 years. He was on the Board of Directors for the Brazilian-American Chamber of Commerce during the last five years as Deputy Regional Director of Banco Real. He is survived by his children Nelson de Castro and Diana Faro de Castro. Reposing at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street on Tuesday, August 19, 1997 from 2-9 P.M. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Patrick's Cathedral (5th Avenue at 50th St.), on Wednesday 10 AM. Interment to follow at Brookside Cemetery, Englewood, New Jersey.
      