
        COOPERBERG-Irving. The Empire State Pride Agenda extends its sympathies to the family and friends of Irving Cooperberg-a man of great charity. His early leadership of the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center helped build a community that is ever so stronger today because of him. The Board and Staff of the Empire State Pride Agenda
        COOPERBERG-Irving. Of New York City, Fire Island and Fort Lauderdale, after twelve years of living openly and courageous with AIDS on Wednesday, August 20, 1997. Beloved life partner for 25 years of Lou Rittmaster. Loving son of the late Abraham and Selma, may their memories be for a blessing. Devoted brother of Meyer and Eileen, brother-in-law to Helen and Manny. Dedicated and doting uncle to: Robyn, Mark, Eleanor, Richard, Arthur, and Sharon. Institution builder, visionary, mensh. Irving served twice as President of the Board of Directors of Congregation Beth Simchat Torah, New York City's Gay and Lesbian Synagogue. Founding President of New York City's Gay and Lesbian Community Services Center. First openly gay member of the Board of Governors of the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College. Services 11:00 AM, Friday, August 22, 1997 at Congregation Beth Simchat Torah, 57 Bethune St., New York City. Burial at New Montefiore Cemetery, Farmingdale, LI. Contributions in Irving's memory may be made to: Congregation Beth Simchat Torah or New York City's Gay and Lesbian Community Services Center.
        COOPERBERG - Irving. Good night, sweet Irving. My heart is broken. Your Lou
        COOPERBERG - Irving. The Board, Staff and Volunteers of the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center mourn the passing of our Founding President and dear friend and colleague, Irving Cooperberg. Irving had the foresight, determination, humor, and tenacity required to guide the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center through its early years. His generosity and determination played a key role in securing the building which is now the Center's home. Irving led the Center's first critical fund raising campaign, spurring other members of our community to follow his generous lead. Upon completion of his term as President (May 1987), Irving was named President Emeritus by the Center's Board of Director in 1988. Together with Lou Rittmaster, his lover of 25 years, Irving continued his fundraising efforts for the Center. Irving's wisdom and generous spirit were present in his devotion to New York's gay and lesbian synagogue, Congregation Beth Simchat Torah, where he served as Chairman for five of his fifteen years as a member of the Board. His smile and laughter overcame even the darkest hours, and he faced his twelve year struggle with HIV and AIDS with a courage none of us will forget. Through his example we learned about living and not dying with HIV. He was, simply put, a true Mensch. Our deepest sympathy and love go to his devoted lover, Lou Rittmaster. Everyone at the Center will miss Irving more than words can say, and we are forever indebted to him for sharing a vision and spirit that lights our path to a brighter tomorrow for future generations of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. Judith E. Turkel, Esq President Richard D. Burns, Esq Executive Director Michael Seltzer Board Co-Chair Janet Weinberg Board Co-Chair Lesbian & Gay Community Services Center
        COOPERBERG-Irving. Congregation Beth Simchat Torah, NYC's gay and lesbian Synagogue, mourns the loss of Irving Cooperberg, one of the g'dolei hador-the giants of our time. Irving was a visionary and an inspiration. Irving gave to community without limit. One of the earliest members of the shul, he served as a trustee for 15 years, and as Chair of the Board for 6. His soul was bound up with community. We are diminished without him. We pray that Lou and the family will find comfort in the many living monuments left by Irving which honor his memory. May they be comforted among all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sharon Kleinbaum Yolanda Potasinski, President Congregation Beth Simchat Torah
        COOPERBERG-Irving. The Paul Rapoport Foundation joins the entire lesbian and gay community in mourning the death of Irving Cooperberg. As an activist and a philanthropist, he never wavered in his faith in our community and in our united future. He was a dear friend to many; an inspiration to all. To his beloved Lou, his partner of 25 years, and to his entire family, our deepest condolences. As part of the community he loved and nurtured, we rededicate ourselves to continuing Iriving's legacy and realizing his vision. Jed Mattes, President Jane D. Schwartz, Exec Dir
        COOPERBERG-Irving. The Board of Governors of The Reconstructionist Rabbinical College (RRC) express their sorrow on the death of Irving Cooperberg. He was a deeply committed Jew and effective communal leader whose work contributed substantially to the betterment of the Jewish community. His concern for the future led him to serve on the RRC Board of Governors, where he served as a bridge to the gay and lesbian community.
        COOPERBERG-Irving. Our Irving is gone. Metaphors spring to mind: a mighty oak has fallen; a bold pioneer has left us. We admired and respected him, but above all we loved him (and indulged him) as a friend and colleague and brother. Our sympathies and love to Lou, Meyer, Eileen and all the others in Irving's remarkable family. Bill Fern Allan Masur
        COOPERBERG-Irving. ''He who immerses himself in the needs of the community, G-d Himself will pay his reward.'' We will miss our friend and role model. Susan Kafer Fern Schwaber
        COOPERBERG - Irving. Friend, godfather, mentor, as well as inspirational community leader. I will miss Irving greatly and grieve with Lou and our community. Paul Jeselsohn
        COOPERBERG-Irving. Thank you for so many years of love and laughter. You were always there for me. Diana
      