
        BULLOCK-Augustus George, II. Age 88, died Friday, August 22, 1997. Mr. Bullock, born in Worcester, MA, was a longtime resident of Grafton, more recently of Dedham, where he lived for the past 15 years with his wife Gertrude (Carter) Bullock. Mr. Bullock leaves in addition to his wife, two sisters, Elizabeth Barton and Mary Johnson, and his brother, the late Francis Bullock, all of Worcester. Mr. Bullock was married to the late Mary (Baugh) Bullock of Philadelphia for 49 years and leaves their children: A.G. Bullock, Jr. of Princeton, MA, the late Rufus Bullock of Greenwich, CT, and Polly Primrose Bullock of Weston, MA, seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. His extended family included three stepchildren: Katrina Cameron of Palo Alto, CA, Lewis Carter of Lincoln, MA, Rev. John Carter of Norwalk, CT, including numerous grandchildren. Mr. Bullock, the son of Rockwood H. Bullock and Elizabeth (Dewey) Bullock, was educated at Saint Mark's School in Southborough, MA, '27, and graduated from Harvard College in 1931. He remained active in both alumni associations and was Class Treasurer for Saint Mark's School. His professional career spanned 42 years with The State Mutual Life Assurance Company (Allmerica Financial). He joined the company as a securities analyst and retired as Vice-President, Treasurer, and Chief Securities Officer. In 1942 Mr. Bullock joined the Army Air Corps and served in the European Theater of Operations being separated as a Major. He was also Treasurer and Director of the Norwich and Worcester Railroad Co., Director of the Trust Committee, Mechanics Bank, Trustee and Chairman of the Finance Committee of Memorial Hospital, and Trustee of the Morgan Construction Company Pension and Profit Sharing plans. Besides Mr. Bullock's strong fmaily ties, he enjoyed skiing, sailing, woodsman and was an inveterate traveler. Burial will be private and a memorial service will be held at a future date. The Stanley R. Tippett Home, 920 South St, Needham, and the American Cancer Society are the family's choice for donations.
      