
        ENTIN-Lester M. Beloved husband of Sally and devoted father of Norma Rappaport and Sheila Lenner and brother Horace Entin and six grandchildren and 2 greatgrandchildren. Services are today 1pm at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, Rte 4 East, Paramus, N.J.
        ENTIN-Lester M. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University, its Board and Staff are deeply saddened at the loss of our friend, guide and mentor, Lester M. Entin. A man with an indomitable spirit and strength whose vision has profoundly enhanced the lives of the Jewish people here and abroad, and especially in Israel. His eloquent and deep-felt words were an inspiration to us all: Living each and every day to its fullest measure, productively using all that he has learned, friendships nurtured, and savoring each day of those remaining of his allotted time. Doing the Lord's work was the most fulfilling of the rewards life had to give him. A self-educated man who played a significant role in making Tel Aviv University a driving intellectual force in Israel and throughout the world. A member of the President's Council, he received an Honorary Doctorate from the University, was Vice Chairman of the International Board of Governors of Tel Aviv University and a member of the Board of the American Friends of Tel Aviv University. His spirit will be forever felt on the campus of Tel Aviv University by the students, faculty, administration and friends from the entrance to the campus at the Lester and Sally Entin Square to the Lester and Sally Entin Faculty of Humanities, the largest of the nine faculties at Israel's largest university; to his most recent legacy, the Lester and Sally Entin Fund for Medical Research in the Area of Pernicious Anemia, to find a cure to the dread disease against which he so gallantly fought, so others will not suffer. This does not include his leadership gifts to the many research and scholarship funds including the Program for Excellence, and the Tali Gordon and Inbar Attia Scholarship Funds, named for two students who were victims of a terrorist's bomb, as he was always, always seeking to bring something better to the world and especially to the youth of his beloved Israel. Lester brought us leaders, leadership and love and he will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved wife and life partner, Sally; his daughters, Norma and Sheila; his sons-in-law, Dr. Marvin Rappaport and Stanley Lenner; his brother and sister-inlaw, Horace and Shirley Entin; his brothers and sisters-in-law, Joseph and Ruth Waters, Paul and Norma Waters; his grandchildren, Marc, Heidi, Wendy, and Robert and Rachel Lenner and Lara and Justin Smolev; and great grandchildren Jared and Haley. May they all find comfort with the mourners of Jerusalem. Bernard Rapoport, Chairman Board of Directors Melvin S. Taub, Chairman Emeritus Robert J. Topchik, President Jules Love, Executive Vice President
        ENTIN-Lester M. A legend in his own time. Success is not unusual but to significantly give of himself & share his fortune with charitable and educational organizations is most unusual. His talents were extraordinary. He affected everyone with whom he had contact. Our families have been together for more than sixty years and we shall deeply miss him. Our sympathies to Sally, his family and his friends. Bernard and Ruth Hoberman, Robert and Jill Hoberman Rube and Joan Miller Larry and Teri Goldstein Steven and Susan Lesser
        ENTIN-Lester M. The Officers, Board of Governors and membership of the Preakness Hills Country Club mourn the loss of one its most respected 50-year members. His counsel and sage advice will be greatly missed. We extend our sincere condolences to Sally and the family. Paul Abrams, President
      