
        BING-Rudolf. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of former general manager Rudolf Bing. A consummate man of the theatre and the last of the great impresarios, Sir Rudolf served our company for close to a quarter of a century, guiding the Metropolitan to new heights of artistic achievements. He put his indelible stamp on the company by bringing to the House the world's greatest directors and designers, revolutionizing the look of our productions in which his involvement with the smallest of details is legendary. Of even more profound importance to our company was his fierce commitment to the breaking of all racial barriers. And under his leadership, the company moved successfully to its much needed new home at Lincoln Center in 1966. His unwavering adherence to exacting standards of artistic excellence, discipline and hard work-leavened always by his mordant wit-has served as an inspiration to the Metropolitan to this day. His incalculable contribution to the development of the art form of opera remains unequaled. Everyone who loves opera remains in his debt, and we remember him with deep pride, gratitude, and affection. James W. Kinnear, Chairman of the Board Bruce Crawford, President and Chief Executive Officer Joseph Volpe, General Manager James Levine, Artistic Director
        BING-Sir Rudolf. The Board, Emeritus Council and staff of the Metropolitan Opera Guild note with great sadness the death of Sir Rudolf Bing, for twenty-two years the General Manager of the Metropolitan Opera Association. While leading the Met through one of the most brilliant chapters in its history, Sir Rudolf strongly supported the educational programs of the Guild and showed keen interest in its campaign to develop new generations of opera lovers. Generous with both his energy and his counsel, he was a good friend of the Guild and will be missed by its entire membership. Thomas J. Hubbard, Chairman Alton E. Peters, President Rudolph S. Rauch, Managing Dir.
        BING-Rudolf. New York City Opera joins the worldwide musical community in mourning the passing of Rudolf Bing, former general manager of the Metropolitan Opera. During his tenure at the Met, he not only helped to shape the company into the distinguished international institution it remains today, but spearheaded a revolution in operatic production standards which continues to influence American opera companies in the present day. One of the great figures of the 20th century opera world, he was a man of vision, leadership and style, and the impact of his work will long enrich New York's cultural life. Paul Kellogg General Director
        BING-Sir Rudolf. The Board of The Richard Tucker Music Foundation sadly notes the passing of Sir Rudolf Bing, a true visionary and legend at The Metropolitan Opera. Sir Rudolf Bing was the guiding force behind the start of Richard Tucker's career, as he was for so many of opera's other great stars, and it is to his credit that many American singers were brought to the world's attention. He was a true friend of Richard Tucker, and the Tucker family joins in noting the loss of Sir Rudolf Bing. Jeffrey S. Tabak, Chairman Barry Tucker, President
        BING-Sir Rudolf. I am deeply saddened by the passing of Sir Rudolf Bing. I made my debut at the Met in 1968 under his management, and I knew immediately that I was part of a truly great opera company. His tenure was a legendary time for this theatre. Luciano Pavarotti
      