
        LAZAR-Ellen. It is with profound sorrow that we announce the untimely passing of our beloved Ellen. Devoted wife of Laurence. Cherished mother of Jason and Jodie. Dear sister of Susan, Michael, and Robert. Loving daughter of Sylvia Heidenberg and wonderful friend to many. Her life was filled with the joy of living. Her courageous death will be an inspiration to all those who knew her. Ellen will live in our hearts forever. Service is on Sunday, September 28, 1997, at 11:15 A.M., at The ''Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        LAZAR-Ellen. I know the love you brought to me you brought to countless others. When you walked into a room, your energy and wonderful smile always came with you. You never let your illness weigh heavily on others, although you struggled for over six years. This speaks to us all of your love of life. You go with all my love and the love of the family and friends who cherished you so dearly. Janey
        LAZAR-Ellen. Your seven AM phone calls will be missed but not forgotten. We will remember your honesty, loyalty and zest for life. Your courage, strength and determination will be an inspiration to those who knew you. We will always treasure the memories our families have shared together. Our heartfelt love and sympathy goes out to Larry, Jason, Jodie and the Heidenberg family. David, Jaclyn, Aimee and Scott
        LAZAR-Ellen. Your incredible courage, strength and dignity are truly an inspiration to us. We will always remember your smile, endless energy, love for life and all the happy times we spent together. Our love and prayers to Larry, Jason, Jodie, Sylvia and the Heidenberg family. Kenny, Arlene, Matthew, Nicole, Zach and Ryan
        LAZAR-Ellen. Ellen's sparkle, style and vitality lite up our lives. She was a dear friend whose memory will remain in our hearts forever. Our heartfelt sympathy to Larry, Jason, Jodie, Sylvia, Susan, Michael and Robert. Judi, Sheila and David Vivien and Sonny Trudi and Bob, Sandi and Bob
        LAZAR-Ellen. We grieve for the loss of Ellen, beloved wife of Larry, mother of Jason and Jodie. Her strength, dignity, and love for family and life will always be an inspiration. We will all miss her. Love, Your friends and co-workers, Network Group of Companies
        LAZAR-Ellen. Dear Larry, Jason and Jodie, the friendship we have developed and the warmth we feel for your family is profound. We will deeply miss Ellen. Her courage is an inspiration to us all. Our deepesth sympathies. Linda, Marshall, Jordan, Jessica and Jonathan Bernstein
        LAZAR-Ellen. Our hearts go out to Larry, Jason and Jodie and the entire family on the loss of our dearest friend. She meant so much to all of us. She inspired us with her courage, strength and love. She will remain in our hearts forever. Love, Andrea, Eddie, Scott and Erika
        LAZAR-Ellen. We will always think of you as our sister, aunt, and friend and cherish the good times our two families shared. We will never forget your determination strength and courage. You will live on in our hearts forever. Love Gail, Jimmy, Brett and Lindsay
        LAZAR-Ellen. Our hearts go out to Larry, Jason, Jodi and the family on the loss of our dear friend. Her courage and strength were matched by her love and devotion to her family and friends. Although she is gone, she will be in our hearts forever. Ricky, Roberta, Matt and Jon
        LAZAR-Ellen. The legacy of courage and great dignity displayed by Ellen and her devoted and loving Larry, Jason, Jodie and Sylvia will forever remain in our hearts. Our love and admiration to you all. Sherry, Herb, David and Jeff Rosenstock
        LAZAR-Ellen. My heartfelt sympathy to Larry, Jason and Jodie on the tragic loss of their beloved Ellen. She was a woman of infinite dignity, valor and compassion and I shall cherish the memory of our friendship. Diane Koplik
        LAZAR-Ellen. We will always miss and love our special friend who is part of our family. Ellen's courage, grace and energy will never be forgotten. Her spirit will live inside all she touched. Love, Adrienne, Kenneth, Jaime and Adam
        LAZAR-Ellen. So beautiful, so heroic, so full of life, stronger than a giant, living every moment with grace. That will always be our memory of a loving daughter, wife, mother and our very young friend. Jean and Eugene
        LAZAR-Ellen. We are deeply saddened by the loss of Ellen, a woman of strength and courage, who will be missed. Jodi, Mark, Brett, Jessica, Amanda and Erika Epstein
        LAZAR-Ellen. A woman of valor. Her zest for life was contagious. We will miss the good times and her friendship. Sue, Hank, Patti and Eric
        LAZAR-Ellen. We walked, we talked, we shared so much. You invented the word courage. I will love you and miss you forever. Andrea
        LAZAR-Ellen. Our heartfelt condolences go out to Larry, Jason and Jodi. We will miss Ellen's devoted friendship. With love, Donna, David, Brad and Jamie
        LAZAR-Ellen. We want to extend our deepest sympathy to the Lazar and Heidenberg family. We will miss you dearly. Sylvia and Abe Ginsburg
        LAZAR-Ellen. Our deepest sympathy to Larry, Jason, Jodi and the family on the loss of your beloved Ellen. P.T. Chui and Family
      