
        MAXWELL-Manuel, on September 23, 1997. Mercifully. Beloved husband of Rhoda for 53 years. Loving father of Douglas F. Dear brother-in-law of Sandy and Fern Granowitz. Devoted uncle of many nieces and nephews, great nieces and nephews and great great nieces and nephews. Service Sunday 10 AM at ''Riverside Memorial Chapel'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions may be made in his memory to either Parker Jewish Geriatric Institute or the NYU School of Law.
        MAXWELL-Manuel. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute for Healthcare and Rehabilitation is deeply saddened by the loss of one of its esteemed founders and Past Chairman, Manuel Maxwell. We will remain forever grateful for his visionary leadership and extraodinary devotion to the Institute. He carried forward the work begun by his father-inlaw, Jacob Granowitz, and now so ably continued by his son and our fellow Trustee, Douglas Maxwell. His name will forever be a part of our history just as his deeds will inspire us to perpetuate the mission that was such an integral part of his life. We are indeed diminished in every way by his passing. Our most sincrere condolences to Douglas and his other, Rhoda. David Taub, Chairman David Glaser, President
        MAXWELL-Manuel (Manny). It is with our deepest sorrow and regret that the Firm of Rosenman & Colin LLP mourns the passing of our friend, esteemed colleague and wise counselor, Manny Maxwell, who for many years was a Partner and Counsel to the Firm. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his wife, Rhoda, and their son, Douglas. Rosenman & Colin LLP
        MAXWELL-Manuel. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its former, long time member, Manuel Maxwell and extend to his bereaved wife Rhoda and the members of his family our sincere condolences. Clifford Friedricks, President Jeffrey Citron, Secretary
        MAXWELL-Manuel. The Board of Governors and Members of the Boca Rio Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Manuel Maxwell. Beloved husband of Rhoda. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Boca Rio Golf Club Norman Ricken, Pres.
      