
        PETERKIN-DeWitt, Jr., of Noroton, CT. Died August 29, 1997 of heart failure and complications related to Parkinsons Disease. He was 84. Mr. Peterkin is survived and missed by his wife Katharine Urban, two daughters Clare and Kate, three sons DeWitt III, George, and Patrick and his wife Jennifer and three grandchildren. He is also survived by his sister Jane Gurney and his brother John Peterkin. A memorial service will be held on Friday, September 5 at 11 AM at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 1864 Post Rd., Darien, CT. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to The American Parkinson's Association, 1250 Hyland Boulevard, Staten Island, New York 10305-1946 or to Waveny Care Center Employee Fund, 3 Farm Rd., New Canaan, CT 06840.
        PETERKIN-DeWitt, Jr. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center Family-trustees, administration, physicians, and staff-mourns the passing of DeWitt Peterkin, Jr., beloved trustee, benefactor, and dear friend, and extends deepest sympathy to his family. Named as a trustee of Roosevelt Hospital in 1972, he generously and tirelessly devoted himself to the hospital and its patients, serving both as president and chairman and, subsequently, as consulting chairman & trustee of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center after the 1979 merger. His kindness, wisdom, and enthusiasm inspired everyone who had the privilege of working with him. He will be missed. Lawrence S. Huntington, Chairman Ronald C. Ablow, MD, President Richard P. Fried, MD, President, Medical Board
        PETERKIN-DeWitt, Jr. The board of directors, other volunteers, and staff of the United Hospital Fund mourn the loss of a great friend & esteemed honorary chairman. During his 22 years of service as a board member, more than half of which he served as chairman or chairman emeritus, Pete shared his extraordinary insight and vast experience to the benefit of New York's health care institutions and the people they served. It was a privilege to know and work with a gentleman of such integrity, commitment and good humor. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Katharine, and the entire family. Howard Smith, Chairman James R. Tallon, Jr., President
      