
        ROSS-Daniel G. On September 29, 1997. Beloved husband of Grace Jarcho Ross. Loving father of Ann & Michael Loeb, James & Laura Ross, Lynn & Edward Rosenfeld. Adored grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of 6. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Tuesday 7-9 PM with service Wednesday 9:45 AM. Please omit flowers.
        ROSS-Daniel G. The American Friends of The Hebrew University is deeply saddened by the loss of Daniel G. Ross, our longtime, committed leader, supporter and friend. A prominent attorney, he worked tirelessly with us for many years. He received an Honorary degree from the University, was a member of its Board of Governors, and was a former President and Chairman of the Board The American Friends. He was firmly devoted to the University's Institute of Contemporary Jewry, and was its International Chairman, providing invaluable support. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. The American Friends of The Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President Lawrence Newman, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        ROSS-Daniel G. The Board and Staff of the New York Association for New Americans, Inc (NYANA) extend their heartfelt condolences to NYANA's President Laura G. Ross, her husband Jim Ross and their entire family on the passing of Daniel G. Ross. We hope that the strength and courage Mrs. Ross has brought to bear on the cause of immigrants and refugees over the last twenty years as a leading member of NYANA's Board of Directors, member of the Executive Committee and Chair of the Personnel Committee, will guide the family in this moment of grief. Our thoughts and prayers are with you. Michael S. Preston, Chair, Executive Committee Mark Handelman, ACSW Executive Vice President
        ROSS-Daniel G. The Board of Directors and Officers of the Joseph and Ceil Mazer Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Daniel G. Ross. As a Director of the Foundation he provided invaluable counsel and leadership. His thoughtfulness, kindness and personal interest in all who knew him is a monument to his love for humanity. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved wife Grace and the members of his family. William Mazer, President
        ROSS-Daniel G. It is with deep sorrow that the officers, Board of Directors and staff of HIAS regretfully acknowledges the passing of a long time friend and the Vice Chair of the HIAS National Council. We extend our condolences to his wife Grace and their three children. Norman D. Tilles, President Martin A. Wenick, Executive V.P. Edwin Shapiro, Chair of the National Council
        ROSS-Danny. The Society for the Advancement of Judaism notes with sorrow the death of longtime member Danny Ross, former Chairman of the Board and son of founder Albert Rosenblatt. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Julie Schonfeld, Rabbi Lawrence Budish, Bd. Chm.
        ROSS-Daniel G. His partners and associates at Becker Ross Stone DeStefano & Klein mourn the passing of this wise and generous man whose friendship and leadership we have treasured over the years and will always remember.
        ROSS-Daniel G. The Board and Executive staff of the Educational Alliance mourn the passing of the father of our esteemed past president and honorary trustee, James J. Ross. The Rosses have been longtime generous supporters including ther funding of the major renovation of the Mazer Theater. We offer our heartfelt condolences to James and the entire Ross family.
      