
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of an aishet chayil-a gracious lady, charming and helpful, a source of moral and psychological strength for her husband and children, and, in her own right, a personality of importance in the Jewish community; beloved wife of the late Rabbi Joseph H. Lookstein; mother of Rabbi Haskel (and Audrey) Lookstein and Nathalie (and Israel) Friedman. Gertrude Lookstein was the granddaughter of the RaMaZ, Rabbi Moses Z. Margolies, outstanding Jewish scholar and an early leader of RIETS. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein is a founding member of the Board of Directors, Bernard Revel Graduate School, and occupies RIETS' Dr. Joseph H. Lookstein Chair in Homiletics-established in memory of the eminent communal leader who was an honorary YU Trustee and Board member of Yeshiva College and RIETS. We extend heartfelt condolences as well to grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. We have lost our eishet chayil. For over six decades her strength, intelligence, dignity, common sense, wit, warmth and kindness guided Ramaz School's founder, her husband, the late Rabbi Joseph H. Lookstein and the current principal, her son, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, in creating, building and nourishing the Yeshiva named after her revered grandfather. She lived to see a child, grandchildren and great-grandchildren attend and graduate Ramaz. They serve as representatives for three generations of Ramaz students who are her living memorial. Our condolences to her children, Rabbi Haskel and Audrey Lookstein, Dr. Nathalie and Israel Friedman and the entire family. Dr. Noam Shudofsky, Administrator Rabbi Joshua S. Bakst, Dean David N. Kahn, Board of Trustees Lawrence A. Kobrin Melvin D. Newman Arthur C. Silverman Steven R. Gross, Past Chairman Albert Goetz Dr. Jay Stone Deborah Wrubel Faculty Council Karen Gibofsky, President Parents' Council
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of Mrs. Gertrude Lookstein, widow of the late Rabbi Joseph H. Lookstein, the first chancellor of our university and one of its founders. To the entire family, we extend sincerest condolences. Mrs. Lookstein was a full partner with her husband in everything he did during his brilliant career as one of the greatest Jewish leaders of the century. She was the granddaughter of Rabbi Moses Z. Margolies and as such, nobly born to one of the most important figures of American Orthodoxy in the early 1900's and the man in whose memory The Ramaz School was established. She also helped her husband at a critical period in BarIlan's history and shall be remembered for this. We share with her beloved kin countless memories of service to Klal Yisroel on every front. She will be sorely missed. May her soul be with the immortals. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Professor Moshe Kaveh, President Jane Stern Lebell, President American Friends Gen. (res.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. The leadership and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Gertrude Lookstein, a champion of the Jewish community, both here and abroad, and a longtime supporter of UJA-Federation. Descended from a long line of rabbis, she married the late Joseph H. Lookstein, a world-renowned rabbi who presided over congregation Kehilath Jeshrun for fifty-six years. Her dedication, philanthropy and leadership in many communal organizations, including Friends of Bar-Ilan and Hadassah, marked her as a true ''eseth chayil.'' Our deepest sympathies go to her son, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, the spiritual leader of Kehilath Jeshrun, an outstanding Jewish communal leader, and a board member of UJA-Federation of New York. Our condolences also go to her daughter, Nathalie Friedman, the family, and to the entire congregation. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. With profound sadness, Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, its Sisterhood, Men's Club and Couples Club mourn the passing of the beloved matriarch of our family, granddaughter of the late Rabbi Moses Z. Margolies, ''The RaMaZ,'' wife of the late Rabbi Joseph H. Lookstein, mother of Dr. Nathalie Friedman and Rabbi Haskel Lookstein and sister of Nathalie Herman, Sylvia Lipton, Hilda Fischman and Charles Schlang. An active leader in many Jewish organizations here and in Israel, she was a strong and powerful influence on the rabbinate of this congregation throughout most of the 20th century. Family, friends, congregants and so many others whom she touched will miss her unfailing love, her wise counsel and her gracious personality. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family and to the entire community who mourn her passing. Fred Distenfeld, President
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude Schlang. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Joseph H. Lookstein. Dear mother of Nathalie and Israel Friedman and Haskel and Audrey Lookstein. Adoring grandmother of Steven and Sheira Schacter, Jessica and Allen Gribetz, Judy and Mark Tykocinski, Naomi and Jonathan Price, Mindy and Jay Cinnamon, Debbie and Shelly Senders, Shira and Larry Baruch and Joshua Lookstein. Loving great-grandmother to twenty-eight greatgrandchildren. Devoted sister of Nathalie Herman, Sylvia Lipton, Hilda and Bernard Fischman, Charles and Dorothy Schlang and beloved aunt to her many nieces and nephews. Funeral services Thursday at noon at Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, 125 East 85th Street.
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. ''A woman of valor...Far beyond pearls is her value.'' The Ramaz Student Body mourns the loss of our Yeshiva's matriarch, wife of the late Rabbi Joseph H. Lookstein, founder of our school. Her love and devotion for the Ramaz and KJ community served as an inspiration to us all. Our heartfelt condolences to her son, our Principal, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, her daughter, Dr. Nathalie Friedman, and the entire family. ''... Let her be praised in the gates by her deeds.'' (Proverbs). The Ramaz Student Body Jonathan Gribetz, President Daniel Mark, Vice President Matthew Schneider, Vice President David Rosen, Secretary Aaron Yunis, Treasurer
        LOOKSTEIN - Gertrude. We mourn the passing of the revered mother of our principal, the venerable Rabbi Haskel Lookstein. Gertrude Lookstein was the exemplar of an ''aishet chayil'', a woman of valor. She combined the traditional virtues of piety and devotion to home and family with a zest for modern life and thougth. During the course of her long and fruitful life, she inspired generations of Ramaz women to emulate her. Our condolences to Rabbi Lookstein, to all the members of her immediate family and to the extended Ramza family. May her memory be blessed. The Faculty of the Ramaz School
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of a great lady and true Eshet Hayil. We extend our deepest, heartfelt sympathy to Rabbi Haskel and Audrey Lookstein and the entire family. Gideon Patt, President Burton P. Resnick, Chairman National Campaign Irwin Hochberg, Chairman Greater New York Rabbi Aaron Landes, Chairman National Rabbinic Cabinet
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. Congregation Orach Chaim extends heartfelt condolences to a much respected rabbinic leader and friend, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein on the loss of his mother Zichrona Livracha. In his manifold activities on behalf of Torah and the Jewish people may he find consolation. Dr. Michael D. Shmidman, Rabbi Wolf Scheck, President
        LOOKSTEIN - Gertrude. We mourn the passing of an unforgetable Jewish matriarch. Heartfelt sympathy to her beloved family. Dr. and Mrs. Meyer Texon and family
      