
        CHERKASKY-Martin, MD. Former President of Montefiore Medical Center. Died at his home on September 7. Husband of Carole Pesner. Father of Marny Cherkasky & Michael Cherkasky, brother of Fanny Goldstein, father-in-law of Richard Brodman and Betsey Cherkasky, grandfather of Eli, Susannah, Ethan, Dinah and Alexandria and stepfather of Ben and Jonah Pesner. Services today, Tuesday, September 9 at 9:30AM at Riverside at Amsterdam Avenue and 76th Street. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee or the charity of your choice.
        CHERKASKY-Martin, M.D. The President, Board of Trustees and entire Montefiore Medical Center community deeply mourn the death of Martin Cherkasky, M.D., a man of wisdom, tenacity and integrity, who for 6 decades served the public good as a physician, hospital leader and adviser to government and private institutions. As president of Montefiore for 30 years, he led its transformation into a modern medical center and university hospital. In building a world-renowned, scientifically advanced institution, he never relinquished his passionate conviction that the hospital must be a instrument for social change, which uses its resources to improve the public's health and welfare. Powerfully persuasive and fiercely resourceful, he succeeded in garnering the support necessary to create innovative programs that extended the hospital's reach to new settings and neglected populations. From home care to prepaid group practice, to neighborhood health centers, to prison health services, he built practical, enduring programs, which have vastly improved the lives of people in New York and have served as models for the nation. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Carole Pesner; his son, Michael; his daughter, Dr. Marny Cherkasky Brodman; his sister, Fanny Goldstein, and his grandchildren. Spencer Foreman, M.D., President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        CHERKASKY - Martin. The Trustees, staff, and Fellows of The New York Academy of Medicine record with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Martin Cherkasky, a long time Fellow of the Academy and former Chairman of the Board of Trustees. Elected to Fellowship in 1952, Dr. Cherkasky's active interest in the affairs of the Academy led him to a central role in its reorganization and revivification. The vision driving that commitment was the same vision that underlay his remarkable stewardship of Montefiore Hospital. He believed passionately that medicine and its institutions have profound social responsibilities. And that these should be expressed prominently in their programs and in their future planning. A tireless champion of a single class of health care, he urged both the public and private sectors to join in moving the health care system toward that objective. His wisdom and commitment, his intellectual energy and his uncompromising insistence on excellence will be missed by the Academy and numerous other institutions in this country and abroad. Deepest sympathies are extended to Carole and the entire Cherkasky family. Stanley Brezenoff, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Jeremiah A. Barondess, MD, President, The New York Academy of Medicine
        CHERKASKY-Martin, M.D. The Board of Governors, members and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) deeply regret the passing of Dr. Martin Cherkasky, a true legend in the New York health care community. During his long and distinguished career at Montefiore Medical Center, and as a past Chairman of GNYHA, Dr. Cherkasky was an innovator who continually pushed for progress but was also a constant reminder that in this era's increasing ''corporatization'' of health care, the entire health care community must always remember that the individual patient is the highest priority. He cared deeply for the underprivileged and strongly advocated-through both words and deeds-for a health care system that provides equal access to high quality health care services for all New Yorkers. Insightful, charismatic, and keenly intelligent, he was greatly admired by his colleagues, and received many awards, including the 1994 GNYHA Lifetime Achievement Award. At this difficult time, we extend our most sincere condolences to Dr. Cherkasky's family and friends. Barry R. Freedman, Chairman Kenneth E. Raske, President Greater New York Hospital Association
        CHERKASKY-Martin. On behalf of The Board of Trustees of New York University and of The Faculty and Students of its Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service, we note the passing of Dr. Martin Cherkasky. Dr. Cherkasky was a founding member of The Wagner School's Visiting Committee, and gave his name to an endowed chair in Health Policy and Management at Wagner. Martin Cherkasky was an institution builder. As he did notably during his long and illustrious career at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, and at The JDC Brookdale INstitute in Jerusalem, so, to, at The Wagner School did he imbue the institution with his passionate commitment to social justice. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife, Carol, his children, Michael and Marny, and their families. L. Jay Oliva, President New York University Jo Ivey Boufford, Dean Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service New York University
        CHERKASKY-Martin, M.D. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a dynamic and distinguished leader who developed Montefiore Medical Center into one of the nation's foremost teaching hospitals. Blending daring and depth, he also served on our faculty for more than three decades, most recently as professor emeritus of epidemiology and social medicine. He will be missed and long remembered for his social commitment to medical excellence. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife, Carole, his son, Michael and his daughter, Dr. Marny Cherkasky Brodman, an assistant professor of psychiatry at Einstein, and the entire family. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Burton P. Resnick, Chairman Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        CHERKASKY-Martin. The Officers, Board and Staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC), mourn the passing of its esteemed long term Board Member, who played a major leadership role in shaping JDC's health programs and services to the elderly. A man of sharp intellect and an articulate advocate for the needy, he headed JDC's Medical Advisory Committee and was central to the development of the Brookdale Institute of Gerontology in Israel. He was a dynamic and charismatic man of compassion and of principle, who strove for excellence and cared deeply about the Jewish people. We extend condolences to his widow Carol Pesner, his son Michael Cherkasky, and his daughter Dr. Marny Cherkasky-Brodman. Jonathan W. Kolker, President Milton A. Wolf, Chairman Michael Schneider, Executive VP Ralph I. Goldman, Hon. Exec VP
        CHERKASKY-Martin, MD. The Executive Committee of Montefiore staff and alumni association mourns the passing of Dr. Martin Cherkasky, past president of Montefiore hospital. A strong supporter of the association, he was among our first group of physicians to be honored in 1983 for his enormous contributions to the medical center, the association and the health care field. His leadership, guidance, dedication and commitment will always be remembered. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Carole Pesner, his children, Michael and Dr. Marni Cherkasky Brodman, and all the members of his family. Stephen M. Brenner, MD. President Margaret Pinsker, Exec Director
        CHERKASKY-Martin. The Offices and Staff of 1199 National Health & Human Service Employees Union AFL-CIO mourn the loss of an imaginative and effective leader who viewed Montefiore Hospital as an instrument for social progress. We in 1199 knew and respected him for his genuine concern for the welfare of health care workers. He honored their right to be treated with respect and dignity and to be represented by a union of their choice. In 1958, this was not very popular among his peers, but it was a major factor in developing meaningful labor-management relations in health care. We extend sympathy to his family. Dennis Rivera, President Phyllis Harris,
        CHERKASKY-Martin. The Department of Ancient Near Eastern Art, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, records with sorrow the death of Martin Cherkasky, a generous donor and member of our Visiting Committee. His notable gifts to the Metropolitan Museum of works of art in his collection and the unfailing support and wise counsel of this gracious gentleman and scholar are remembered with deep appreciation and affection. Prudence O. Harper, Curator Ancient Near Eastern Art The Metropolitan Museum of Art
        CHERKASKY-Martin, M.D. The Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery of the Montefiore Medical Center-Albert Einstein College of Medicine wish to acknowledge his life-long contributions and extend sincerest sympathy to his family. Dr. Cherkasky's limitless dedication to the Montefiore Medical Center will long be remembered. Jeffrey P. Gold M.D., Chairman Dept of Cardiothoracic Surgery Montefiore Medical CenterAlbert Einstein College of Medicine
        CHERKASKY-Martin, Dr. The Auxiliary of Montefiore Medical Center is deeply saddened by the passing of Martin Cherkasky, long-time friend and leader who gave us wise council. Our condolences to his wife Carole, his son Michael and daughter Marny and grandchildren. Ruth Saporta, President Mary Goldsmith, Secretary
        CHERKASKY-Martin, Dr. The staff of Kroll Associates extend our deepest sympathies to our colleague and Chief Operating Officer, Michael Cherkasky, on the passing of his father, Dr. Martin Cherkasky. Our profound condolences to Mike and the family.
      