
        CHERKASKY-Martin, M.D. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Dr. Martin Cherkasky, a giant in the field of hospital administration, and a longtime head of Montefiore Medical Center, one of our premier healthcare institutions. His dedication to the art of medicine and the healing of humanity was unsurpassed. During three decades as President of Montefiore, he expanded its social service programs, transforming it into a world-renowned hospital. A relentless innovator, he displayed a passionate commitment to the needy and a deep belief in high quality medical care for everyone. Beloved husband of Carol Pesner, devoted father of daughter, Marny Cherkasky, M.D. and son, Michael, and good friend to all who needed him. Dr. Cherkasky's many philanthropic endeavors included shaping health programs for The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, a UJAFederation beneficiary, and developing the Brookdale Institute of Gerontology in Israel. To his family, we send our deepest sympathies. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        CHERKASKY-Martin, M.D. The officers, board members and the entire Beth Abraham Health Services community are profoundly saddened by the death of Dr. Martin Cherkasky and mourn his passing. A physician, hospital administrator and spokesman for those without a voice, he was also a dear friend and mentor for over thirty years. As a leader who led by example and an advocate passionately committed to improving the health and welfare of all, he enriched our lives for having known him. We will miss his wisdom & counsel and always cherish his memory. To his wife Carole, his children Michael and Marny and his grandchildren we offer our heartfelt condolences. Edwin H. Stern, III Chairman of the Board BETHCO Michael R. Potack Chairman of the Board Beth Abraham Health Services William H. Frohlich President Beth Abraham Health Services
        CHERKASKY-Martin. The Offices and Staff of 1199 National Health & Human Service Employees Union AFL-CIO mourn the loss of an imaginative and effective leader who viewed Montefiore Hospital as an instrument for social progress. We in 1199 knew and respected him for his genuine concern for the welfare of health care workers. He honored their right to be treated with respect and dignity and to be represented by a union of their choice. In 1958, this was not very popular among his peers, but it was a major factor in developing meaningful labor-management relations in health care. We extend sympathy to his family. Dennis Rivera, President Phyllis Harris, Secretary-Treasurer
      