
        MUNK-Barbara D., M.D., passed away Friday, September 12 in New York. Survived by her brothers, Dr. Peter Munk and Prof. Dr. Klaus Munk, her sister, Dr. Rosemarie Hoffmann, many loving family members in Germany, and friends here and abroad. Her life was dedicated to child psychiatry. She was Founder and Director of The Parent-Infant Therapeutic Program at Gouverneur Hospital, a Clinical Assistant Professor and Supervisor in Child Psychiatry at New York University. A service will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st Street, on Monday, September 15, from 6-8 PM. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory to Zero To Three, National Center for Infants, Toddlers and Families, c/o Central Fidelity Bank, P.O. Box 25494, Richmond, Virginia 23286-8214, would be greatly appreciated.
        MUNK-Barbara D., MD. A German born child and adolescent psychiatrist and Director of the Parent Infant Therapeutic Program (PITP) at New York's Health and Hospital Corporation, who advocated passionately for the protection of vulnerable children. Died September 12, 1997 at the age of 72 after a long illness. Dr. Munk anticipated dual trends of modern psychiatry towards working with the severely mentally ill and their children. She designed and implemented the PITP to help some of New York's most vulnerable: mentally ill mothers threatened with losing custody of their children; and infants and toddlers at risk for developmental delays, neglect, abuse and even infanticide. Born in Berlin, Germany in 1925, she studied at the Hamburg University School of Medicine and at the University Hospital of Neurology and Psychiatry in Hamburg. She completed her residency in child psychiatry at Bellevue in 1959. Among the other appointments, she was a Psychiatric Consultant to the Brooklyn Juvenile Court, the Max Planck Institute in Munich, the New York Foundling Hospital, and was a Clinical Associate Professor and Supervisor in Child Psychiatry at New York University and the Director of the Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Services at Gouverneur Hospital. She served on the Board of the Puerto Rican Family Institute since 1965, The New York Council on Child and Adolescent Psychiatry since 1989 and was a founding member of the New York ZeroTo-Three Network. She is survived by her brothers Dr. Peter Munk, Professor/Dr. Klaus Munk, and her sister Dr. Rosemarie Hoffmann and many loving family members and friends in Germany, the US and abroad. Interment will be in Berlin, Germany.
        MUNK-Barbara D., MD. Child psychiatrist and advocate to the needs of young children-an inspiration to her colleagues and to the profession. She will be sadly missed. Board of Directors NY Zero-To-Three Network
      