
        KAHAN-Joshua Harrison. On September 17, 1997, of Voorhees, NJ. ''Our Joshy Bear.'' Born November 5, 1994, his smile is indelible in all of our hearts. He is truly a treasured gift to all of us. Joshy wanted to be a fireman. When one thinks of Joshy we think of his infectious, magical smile, his ability to light up a room. Joshy, you are so brave. You are our hero. We will always be with you. Joshy is survived by his parents, Jeffrey and Michele (nee Taub) Kahan, his sister, Allison Kahan, his brother, Brian Kahan. He is the grandson of Sunny and Jay Kahan, Myrna and Joseph Douglas and Lloyd and Linda Taub. Services Friday, 11 AM, Platt Memorial Chapels, Inc., 2001 Berlin Rd, Cherry Hill, NJ. The family will return to the late residence and respectfully requests in lieu of flowers contributions in his memory be made to Joshua Kahan Memorial Fund for Pediatric AML Leukemia, c/o The American Cancer Society, 1626 Locust Street, Phila, PA. 19103.
        KAHAN-Joshua Harrison. Born November 5, 1994. Beloved son of Michele and Jeffrey. Loving brother of Allison and Brian. In our hearts forever. Grandma Linda, Papa Lloyd, Aunt Amy, Uncle Lonny, Aunt Lori, Uncle Bennet, Aunt Hillary, cousins Alex, Ricki, Dani and Amanda, and great grandma Mildred Wurtzburger
        KAHAN-Joshua. With the deepest sorrow we mourn the passing of our nephew and cousin. We will remember his sweet smile and valiant struggle forever. Our hearts go out to his parents, Michele andJeff, his sister Allison and brother Brian and his great-grandmother, grandparents, aunts, uncles and cousins. Poppy and Ronny Bonnie, Seth, Richard, Mindy, Steven and Howard
        KAHAN-Joshua. Our Joshy Bear. Your smile lit up our hearts and lives. You will be a part of us forever. We will always love you. Nana Myrna, Papa Joe, Aunt Amy, Uncle Lonny, Alex, Ricki and Dani, Aunt Lori, Amanda, Aunt Lisa, Uncle Tommy, Madison, Mackenzie, Uncle Keith, Aunt Janet, Matthew, Great Aunt Rita and Harold
        KAHAN-Joshua. Taken too soon from his loving family. Together they fought with all their might. My heartfelt sympathy to Michele and Jeff, Alison and Brian and all of their family. I know they will find comfort in their love and support for each other. Aunt Charlotte
      