
        JACOBS-Jerry C., M.D. Of Riverdale and Westhampton Beach, NY, on September 6. Professor of clincial pediatrics at Columbia Univeristy College of Physicians and Surgeons. Beloved husband for 43 years of Isabel Fenster Jacobs. Devoted father of Deborah L. Jacobs (Ken Stern), Daniel S. Jacobs, and Paul S. Jacobs (Lisa Rau). Adoring grandfather of Bryan Rau-Jacobs, Kelly Rau-Jacobs and Jack Stern. Services Monday, September 8, at 10 AM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. Family sitting shiva September 8, 9 and 10, at 4621 Waldo Ave., Riverdale, NY. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to Babies Hospital, for the Jerry C. Jacobs Memorial Lectureship in Pediatric Rheumatology.
        JACOBS-Jerry C., M.D. Esteemed colleague Jerry Jacob's contributions to pediatric rheumatology epitomized the spirit and commitment to improving the lives of children. His pioneering efforts resulted in significant contributions in our understanding of rheumatological disorders. The Regional Arthritis Program for Children (RAP4-KIDS) at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, that Dr. Jacobs founded, provided community education and outreach, patient education and support services, and coordination of clinical and clinic support services. Without reservaton, Dr. Jacobs was internationally known and highly regarded as one of the most outstanding scholars and clinicians. In 1997 Dr. Jacobs was selected Master by the American Rheumatology Association. His colleagues in the Department of Pediatrics and at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center cherish his memory and will miss him deeply. John M. Driscoll, Jr., M.D. Chairman Department of Pediatrics College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University Director of Pediatric Service Babies & Children's Hospital of New York
        JACOBS-Jerry C., M.D. Pediatrician, teacher, mentor, Jerry Jacobs provided medical students and house staff of Babies Hospital and Columbia University with an indelible model of the responsible physician. A commanding figure on the wards and demanding the highest standards of care, he was completely committed to the well being of his patients. Unwilling to deny children the right to be children, Dr. Jacobs pioneered the concept of the rapid mobilization of the child with arthritis and refused to allow chronic disease to interfere with normal childhood activities. Beloved by his patients, revered and respected by his many students and trainees, Jerry Jacobs was one of the legendary role models of Babies Hospital. His loss to our institution will be irreplaceable. Stephanie Green, M.D., President Babies Hospital Alumni Assoc. Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons
        JACOBS-Jerry C., M.D. Round Dune is saddened by the passing of our friend, and offers Isabel and their family our sincere condolences.
      