
        SWIG-Richard. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound regret at the loss of Richard Swig of San Francisco. Chairman of the board of the Northern California chapter of the ATS for the past decade, Mr. Swig was fervent in his support of Israel and education and research at the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology. He served on the Technion International Board of Governors and the ATS Board of Regents. Together with his wife, Roselyne, he established the Roselyne and Richard Swig Sports Hall and supported the Baltimore Aerospace Laboratories, the Trauma Helicopter Development Project and other programs at the Technion. In recognition of his commitment, Mr. Swig was awarded an Honorary Fellowship from the Technion in 1995. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Roselyne Swig and to the entire Swig family. American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Irving A. Shepard, President Ben Z. Sosewitz, Chariman of the Board Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Sidney Konigsberg, Northern California Chapter President Jack Kadesh, Northwest Region Director
        SWIG-Richard. The leadership and staff of the State of Israel Bonds organization mourn the passing of our dear friend and supporter Richard Swig of San Francisco. His life was a model of philanthropic and humanitarian devotion and he will be greatly missed. A longtime friend of the Israel Bonds organization, his inspired leadership and generous support spurred our San Francisco campaign to new heights in raising investment funds for Israel's economic development. In all areas of endeavor, Richard Swig set the standard to be emulated. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Roselyne ''Cissie'' Swig and the entire family. Gideon Patt President William Belzberg Chairman of the Board Burton P. Resnick National Campaign Chairman David B. Hermelin International Chairman Susan Weikers-Volchok International Campaign Chairman Michael Siegal North American Campaign Chairman Milton Jacobs San Francisco General Chairman
        SWIG-Richard L. The American Friends of The Hebrew University deeply mourn the passing of Richard L. Swig of San Francisco. His leadership in his community, devotion to Israel and passion for life serve as an inspiration for us all. He was a loyal supporter and friend of The Hebrew University, and he and his family are among our Benefactors and Founders. We express our most sincere condolences to his wife, Cissie, and his entire family. The American Friends of The Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President Lawrence Newman, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        SWIG-Richard L. Ben-Gurion University of The Negev and its American Associates mourn the passing of prominent Philanthropist and Jewish community leader, Richard Swig of California. We extend heartfelt condolences to Roselyne Swig, his wife of 47 years, and their children, Rick, Susan, Marjorie and Carol; his brother-in-law, Richard Dinner; his sister-in-law, Charlotte Shultz, and the entire Swig family, who are longtime friends and generous supporters of Ben-Gurion University of The Negev. Professor Avishay Braverman, President, BGU Harold L. Oshry, Chairman Kenneth L. Tucker, President
        SWIG-Richard L. The members of the Weiler and Arnow families are saddened by the death of our associate and partner of many years. We extend our sincere sympathy and condolences to his wife, Roselyne, his children, and all of the members of the Swig and Dinner families. The Weiler and Arnow Families
      