
        OVERMAN - William Peter. Adored and beloved husband of Jane Leavy Overman. Adored and loving father of Jennifer Overman, David and Jonathan Blinken. Pop Pop to Allegra, Emma and Benjamin. Beloved brother to Nancy Sher and friend to so many. Funeral services to be held Wednesday, September 24, 9:45 A.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue. Burial will be in East Hampton. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations in his memory to either Dr. David Pfister Head and Neck Service Fund, in care of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Box E, 1275 York Avenue, NYC 10021, or SCAN NY, 207-215 East 27th St, New York City 10016.
        OVERMAN-William. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of William Overman, a champion of the Jewish community. As an outstanding and beloved leader in our Wall Street Division, he was honored last year for more than 10 years of compassionate service and extraordinary commitment to the UJA-Federation mission. His dedication and tireless efforts as the Division's former chairman earned him enormous admiration and respect throughout the community. He is equally recognized for his accomplishments on Wall Street as a Principal of Neuberger & Berman, LLC. Our deepest sympathies go to his wife, Jane, his two sons, David and Jonathan, his daughter Jennifer, and his grandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Thomas W. Brock, Wall Street Division Chair Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        OVERMAN-William. SCAN New York mourns the passing of William Overman, beloved husband of SCAN Chairperson, Jane Overman. Bill provided vital support and nurturance to SCAN's emerging presence as a children and families service provider. Bill's guidance, his active contribution of self and resources over twenty years, his true caring and humanity will serve as an eternal inspiration and source of strength. The SCAN Board of Directors, staff, families and children mourn the passing of a man of true compassion and philanthropy. To Jane and family we offer our sincerest sympathy. Bill Overman's spirit and compassion will forever brighten our path.
        OVERMAN-William P. The management and staff of Travelers Group extend our sincerest sympathies to Bill's family. As a company, we will miss the always constructive advice and counsel of one of our first and most loyal investors. We are grateful for his support and encouragement, as well as for his lessons on the significance of free cash flow. As individuals, many of us will miss him on a much more important and personal level, as a great friend, a wise confidant and a gentleman of the first order. Sanford I. Weill, Chairman and CEO James Dimon, President Travelers Group
        OVERMAN-William. The Employees and Principals of Neuberger&Berman, LLC, mourn the passing of our long time friend and partner, Bill Overman. During his entire tenure at our firm, which began twenty-three years ago, he was the example of what a good partner should be. He was accomplished, generous, good natured, and possessed the sense of decency that caused him to be well loved by all. We will miss him greatly. To Bill's wife, Jane, and their entire family, we extend our sincere condolences. The Employees and Principals Neuberger&Berman, LLC
        OVERMAN-William. The family of ELEM/Youth in Distress in Israel-all the board and professional committees in both countriesextend their sympathy to the family of Bill Overman, who was longtime financial advisor of ELEM. His good judgment, wisdom, and friendship will be missed by us all. Our thoughts are with his wife, Jane, and their children, Jenny, David, Jonathan, and their grandchildren. Ann Bialkin, President ELEM/Youth in Distress in Israel
        OVERMAN-William. On behalf of the members and staff of Atlantic Golf Club, we deeply mourn the passing of our friend and fellow member, Bill Overman, and we extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Jane and his family. Bill's good cheer and extreme courage in the face of difficulty will always stay with us. The Board of Governors Atlantic Golf Club.
        OVERMAN-William P. The members of the City Athletic Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, William P. Overman, and wish to express heartfelt sympathy to his family. The Board of Governors
      