
        KNIGHT-William T. III, of Saddle River, NJ, died September 16, 1997, at age 78, after a lengthy illness. Born in Savannah, GA., Mr. Knight graduated from the University of Georgia with a B.S. degree in Pharmacy. He served in the United States Navy during World War II and during the Korean conflict & retired as a Naval Commander. At the time of his retirement from American Cyanamid in 1981, Mr. Knight was the Departmental Manager with the Fine Chemicals Department and also Market Manager with the Organic Chemical Division with the Lederle Laboratories Division. A devoted citizen of Saddle River, Mr. Knight served as President of the Home and School Association and served the Borough as a councilman from 1976 to 1986. He was a member of the Guidance Council, Council Representative to the Zoning Board of Adjustment, Police Commissioner, Chairman of the Sanitation Committee, the Public Information and Personnel Committee and Ordinance and Legislature Committee Coordinator, and served as President of the Borough Council. He was a member of the Valley Hospital Foundation, St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church in Ho-Ho-Kus, The Society of the Cincinnati, The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, Proprietary Association, Drug, Chemical and Allied Trade Association where he served on the Board of Directors the last six years, the Philadelphia Drug Exchange and the Arcola Country Club. He is survived by his wife Frances (Peg) (nee Floyd); son Rex of Cortlandt Manor, NY; three grandchildren; brother Stuart Knight of Savannah, GA; sister Courtney Gaines of Savannah, GA. The family will receive their friends on Wednesday, September 17, at Vander Plaat Memorial Home, S113 Farview Avenue, Paramus, NJ from 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Funeral services will be at 10:00 AM, Thursday, St. Bartholomew's Church, Sheridan Ave, Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ. Interment will be on Saturday in Bonaventure Cemetery, Savannah, GA. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be made to Dr. Elliott W. Strong, Chair, C/O Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Box E, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021, The Valley Hospital, 223 N Van Dien Avenue, Ridgewood, New Jersey 07450 or the Van Dyk Manor Nursing & Convalescent Home, 304 S Van Dien Ave., Ridgewood, NJ 07450.
      