
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. Upper East Side Hatzolah, its members and coordinators, mourn the passing of Gertrude Lookstein, an exceptional individual, a true ''eishet chayil'', and leader in our community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her son, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Rabbi of Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and principal of The Ramaz School, and to her daughter, Dr. Nathalie Friedman. Mrs. Lookstein's dedicated support for and pride in Hatzolah as well as her decades of leadership in the Upper East Side Jewish Community will be sorely missed. May the bereaved family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. David W. Shipper Andrew M. Shipper Coordinators
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) records with sorrow the death of a true woman of valour, mother of our distinguished board member Rabbi Haskel Lookstein; a distinguished religious leader and widow of the late Rabbi Joseph H. Lookstein, who for many decades provided outstanding leadership in shaping JDC's programs to rebuild Jewish life overseas after the Holocaust. May the memory of her good deeds serve as a blessing. Jonathan W. Kolker, President Milton A. Wolf, Chairman Michael Schneider, Executive VP Ralph I. Goldman, Hon. Exec VP
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. Congregation Or Zarua extends its deepest sympathies to Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, his entire family and the communities of Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and The Ramaz School. She was a woman whose life was lived for the Jewish community as well as her family, and we pray that the community's sorrow provides a partial consolation to you. May He who brings comfort to the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to all those touched by this cishet hayil. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Samuel C. Klagsbrun, Pres
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of Gertrude Lookstein, Matriarch of the legendary Lookstein family, and beloved mother of Dr. Natalie Friedman and Rabbi Haskel Lookstein. Rabbi Lookstein's leadership has played a crucial role in transforming Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun into a leading outreach congregation, and his commitment to outreach has profoundly impacted on NJOP's efforts to assure a Jewish future for American Jewry. Condolences to the entire family. Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchwald, Dir
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. The Metropolitan NY Coordinating Council on Jewish Poverty mourns the loss of Gertrude Lookstein, mother of our esteemed Board member, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein. Gertrude Lookstein was an inspiration to her family and to the Jewish community as a whole. She inspired all to perform acts of loving kindness. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Merryl H. Tisch, President Menachem Lubinsky, Chair of Bd William E. Rapfogel, Exec Dir
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. AMIT is deeply saddened by the loss of the beloved mother of our dear friends and supporters Rabbi Haskel Lookstein and Doctor Nathalie Friedman and dear mother-in-law of our devoted National Vice President, Audrey Lookstein. A true Woman of Valour, Gertrude Lookstein epitomized love of Torah, love of Israel and selfless communal service. She will be sorely missed. Heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Evelyn Blachor, Nat'l Pres Marvin Leff, Executive Dir
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. We are deeply grateful for a lifetime of family friendship that spans generations as well as the ocean. The special qualities of a gracious lady are remembered with love and will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to Nathalie and Israel, Rabbi Haskel and Audrey, and Gertrude's brother and sisters. Our family mourns with your family. Bertha Kramer, Edna Cohen and Audrey Kallman
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. The Yeshivat Hakotel family mourns the passing of Gertrude Lookstein, beloved mother of Rabbi Haskel Lookstein and widow of the late Rabbi Joseph Lookstein, and extends sympathy to its alumnus, Rabbi Joshua Lookstein. B'avodat hakodesh timtzeuh tanchumim. May the family be comforted among all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Harav Aharon Bina Yeshivat Hakotel
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our illustrious neighbor, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein. She leaves a legacy of Torah, Zedakah and Chesed for her wonderful family. May they all be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Arthur G. Degen, Chairman of Bd Elza Weinman, Sisterhood
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. MaTan, The Sadie Rennert Institute for Torah Studies notes with sadness the passing of Gertrude Lookstein, mother of Rabbi Haskel Lookstein and Dr. Nathalie Friedman, two outstanding supporters of higher Jewish education for women. May the family be comforted among all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Malke Bina, Educational Dir
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. Hineni extends profound sympathy to our esteemed friend, the distinguished spiritual leader of K.J., Rabbi Haskel Lookstein and his family on the passing of their dear mother and grandmother, Gertrude, a true Aishes Chayil, whose life was an embodiment of Torah and chesed. Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis, Pres. Barbara Janov, Exec. Director
        LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. The S/A/R Academy family mourns the loss of a great woman and Aishet Chayil. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to her beloved children, Rabbi Haskel and Audrey Lookstein and to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President
      