
        STRICKLAND-Harold Allison, Jr., 82, of Vero Beach, FL., formerly of Greenwich, Connecticut, died on September 3, 1997. He was born February 5, 1915 in Detroit, Michigan, the son of Harold A. and Mary (Pugh) Strickland; m. Ruth Voigt, May 29, 1940 (dec. 1982); m. Anne Muir King, May 18, 1985 (dec. 1992); m. Betty Spangler Levenson, January 4, 1994. He was awarded a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering and a B.S. in Electrical Engineering by the University of Michigan in 1937 and an M.B.A. from Harvard in 1938. He was an executive engineer at Budd Wheel Company, 1938-1950, where he helped design the first automotive disc brakes and the first anti-lock brake skid control systems. More than 70 patents were granted in his name. From 1950-1964 he served at General Electric as Vice President and General Manager of Industrial Electronics. At GE, the businesses for which he was responsible created the first solid state electronic computer, the first automated bank check processing system-including magnetic character imprinting and high speed reading and sorting, and the first heart pacemakers. The mass flowmeter was invented for highperformance aircraft, managing fuel consumption on the supersonic Concorde where more than half the fuel is consumed on takeoff. In addition, computer-controlled electric generator stations were produced as well as numerical control systems for machine control and computer-aided design. From 1964-1980 he was President of General Signal Corporation. Under his tenure it grew from an annual volume of $35 million in sales to over $1.6 billion and achieved a position in sales and profitability among the upper half of Fortune 500 companies. He served on the boards of General Signal, Cross & Trecker, Prime Computer, Machinery & Allied Products Institute, and in Vero Beach, the Atlantic Classical Orchestra and the Center for the Arts. Club memberships included the Moorings Club, Vero Beach, and the University Club, New York City. Among his hobbies were music, travel, photography, boating, working in wood, metals, and electronics, and collecting paintings and antiquities. He was also interested in the genealogy of his family, which on his mother's side included Major Moses Van Campen, a Revolutionary War hero, and the Crandall family, who maintained a station on the Underground Railroad. He is survived by his sister, Elizabeth Forrester; his wife, Betty; three children-Stephanie Strickland, Leslie Strickland, Harold Strickland III; four grandchildren-Robin Pfaff, Alexander Pfaff, Douglas Pfaff, Samuel Strickland; and four stepchildren-Suzanne King, Melissa Klingenberg, Ann Roan, and Tom Levenson. The family will receive friends at home, 172 Springline Drive, Vero Beach, Florida, on Friday, September 5, 1997 from 11 A.M. to 1 P.M. Services will be held in the chapel at the Second Congregational Church, 139 East Putnam Avenue, in Greenwich, Connecticut on Sunday, September 7 at 4 P.M. For further information please contact the Strunk Funeral Home, Vero Beach, Florida.
      