
        ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah Bimko. October 3, 1997. On Friday night after Rosh Hashanah, surrounded by her children and granddaughter, our beloved, heroic, unique Hadassah left us at the age of 85 after a valiant battle with liver failure resulting from malaria and hepatitis she contracted at Auschwitz. After saving the lives of hundreds of Jews at Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen, and keeping alive 149 Jewish children at Belsen, she organized and led the efforts to restore to health the liberated Jews of Belsen. One of the earliest leaders of the survivors of the Holocaust together with her late and unforgettable husband Yossel, she was the principal witness for the prosecution at the first war crimes trial of the German murderers apprehended at Belsen. She served as head of the Health Department of the Jewish Committee of Belsen and the Central Commitee of Jews in the British Zone of Germany. She was a member of President Carter's Commission on the Holocaust and one of the founding members of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, where she served until 1994 as Chair of the Archives Committee and on the Executive Committee. She was the honorary President of the World Federation of BergenBelsen Survivors. The beloved mother of Menachem and Jeanie and devoted, cherished grandmother of Jodi, she will live in our hearts forever. Services Monday, 12 noon, Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 E. 87th St., NYC. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Dr. Hadassah Bimko Rosensaft Memorial Fund of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Washington, DC.
        ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah. The World Federation of Bergen Belsen Survivors Associations mourn the passing of our lifelong Honorary President. Together with her late husband Yossel, she was the driving force for all of us from the days of liberation in all our endeavors of remembrance. A noble and charitable woman of valor and courage. Her memory will remain a shining light for all Holocaust survivors the world over. Lilly and Sam Bloch Charlotte and Norbert Wollheim Ellis and Israel Krakowski Malka and Mannes Schwarz Lillian and Jack Rozmaryn Helen and Abe Enisman Max Silbernick, Chicago Bella and Isadore Eisenberg, Detroit Hela Berlinsky, Tel Aviv Rachmiel Finger, Tel Aviv Ephraim Londner, Tel Aviv Leon Nicinski, Montreal
        ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah. We join with Am Yisrael in mourning the death of our beloved Hadassah, survivor of Auschwitz and heroine of Bergen-Belsen. With no thought to her own endless pain and horrific loss, she struggled ceaselessly amidst her own captivity to strengthen and sustain all whom she could. In the final weeks of the war, she smuggled medicine and relief to hundreds of children dying of disease in Bergen-Belsen. She fought the Nazi monster with courage and with singular valor. Her life was a living testimony to the endurance of the Jewish people. May Menachem, Jean and Jodi be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Sylvia, David, Rachel, and Raphael Posner
        ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah. We deeply mourn the passing of our beloved Hadassah, who has been so much a part of our family. A cherished and devoted friend and a source of inspiration for all of us. We will miss her terribly. She will remain in our hearts forever. Lilly and Sam Bloch Gloria and Yoram Golan David and Romy
        ROSENSAFT - Hadassah. We share the sorrow of those who knew her. Our heartfelt sympathy to Menachem, Jeanie, Jodi and the whole family. Benjamin Meed, Sam Bloch, Norbert Wollheim, Roman Kent For The American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors
      