
        HOFF-George Edward, who was President of CPC International Inc. Worldwide Corn Wet Milling Division from November 1983 until his retirement in June 1985, died on Sunday, October 5, at his home in Oradell, N.J. Mr. Hoff, 77 years old, had Parkinson's Disease. Beginning his career with CPC in 1947 at Argo, IL Corn Products Plant, Mr. Hoff rose to be Director of Engineering. After being promoted to a corporate position, he was transferred in 1968 to the company's headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. Mr. Hoff advanced through positions in engineering and administration in its Corn Wet Milling Operations, traveling extensively throughout the world. At the time he was President, Mr. Hoff directed a division that had worldwide sales of over $1.5 billion, 38 manufacturing plants in 21 countries, and over 12,000 employees around the world. It was the largest such operation in the world. Mr. Hoff who was born in Waukegan, IL, in 1920, held a Bachelor of Science and a Master of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering from Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago. He was also a graduate of the Harvard Business School Advanced Management Program. He served throughout World War II with the rank of Lieutenant in the United States Navy as a Torpedo Officer in the Pacific Theatre. He was an active member of St. Joseph Catholic Church in Oradell, N.J. for 29 years and before that the Divine Infant Church in Westchester, IL for 14 years. Mr. Hoff was a member of the Hackensack Golf Club in Oradell, N.J. and a retired executive of the Men's Group Adventures Unlimited. Mr. Hoff is survived by his wife of 49 years, the former Mary Catherine Tuomey of Chicago. His seven surviving children are Mary Ilene Roof, Nancy Tishman, both of Arlington, VA; Walter Hoff of Atlanta, GA; Vincent Hoff of Honolulu, Hawaii; Edward Hoff of Cambridge, MA; Geri Havill of Packanack Lakes, N.J.; and James Hoff of Tulsa, OK. He is also survived by his children's seven spouses, 17 grandchildren and his sister, Agnes Gerthar of Sun City, AZ. A son, Thomas Hoff, died in 1965 as a result of Cerebral Palsy.
      