
        RICE-James P. Of Chicago, IL. Beloved husband of the late Paula (nee Yasgour). Loving father of William ''Bill'' (Myrna Sislen) and Michael (Jane). Dear grandfather of Joel and Nathan. Fond brother of the late Elizabeth (David) Carson. Services Tuesday, 1:30 PM, at Anshe Emet Synagogue, 3760 North Pine Grove Avenue, Chicago. In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to James and Paula Rice Immigrant and Refugee Fund, C/O JUF, 1 South Franklin Street, Chicago, IL 60606. For information, Piser Chapel, 773-561-4740.
        RICE-James P. Thanks to Scandinavia records with profound sorrow the death of a special human being who served as an Officer and Director since its inception in 1963. He was sensitive to the moral imperatives of Thanks to Scandinavia in reminding current and future generations of the heroism and bravery of the people, the governments and the churches of Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden in rescuing persons of the Jewish faith from the Holocaust and in expressing America's gratitued to the Scandinavians by awarding scholarships to them at American Universities and Medical Centers. He was instrumental in the recent affiliation of Thanks to Scandinavia with the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, with which he had been intimately involved in aiding the resettlement of hundreds of thousands of Jewish displaced persons at the end of World War II. An invaluble Officer and Director of Thanks to Scandinavia, he will be sorely missed as a friend and a colleague. Victor Borge, National Chairman Richard Netter, President
        RICE-James. It is with great sadness that HIAS, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, notes the passing of James Rice, our executive director from 1955-66. His lifelong contribution to helping immigrants and refugees was profound; his leadership in the Jewish communal world legendary. His dedication and caring guidance will be sorely missed. We offer our sincere condolences to his family. Norman D. Tilles President Martin A. Wenick Executive Vice President
      