
        BURT-Michael, M.D., Ph.D. October 4, 1997. Beloved husband of Kathleen. Dear son of Shirley and Maurice Mastromonico. Loving father of Bryan and Lauren. Dear brother of Gail Jannicelli and much loved son-in-law of Kathleen and John Ahearn. Friends may call Tuesday 2-4 and 6-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Funeral Mass at St. Catherine of Siena RC Church, 411 E. 68 St, Wednesday, 10 AM. Interment Gate of Heaven Cemetery, E. Hanover, NJ. Contributions may be made to the Dr. Michael Burt Memorial Fund for Cancer Research, Dept of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Ave, NYC 10021.
        BURT-Michael, M.D., Ph.D. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and staff of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center express their sincere sorrow on the tragic death of their dear colleague and friend, Michael Burt. Dr. Burt was an extraordinary physician-a gifted surgeon, medical researcher, and well-respected teacher. His work involving the prevention of lung metastases, exploration of mechanisms of drug resistance in tumor cells, and enhancement of patients' abilities to handle treatment will continue to impact the lives of cancer patients for many years to come. Dr. Burt was appointed to the staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in 1985. In 1991 he became the Director of the Thoracic Oncology and Surgical Metabolism Laboratories and received the Outstanding Teacher Award from the Department of Surgery. In 1992 he was appointed Attending Surgeon in the Thoracic Service and Clinical Nutrition Service. Earlier this year, Dr. Burt was elected President of the Medical Staff and appointed to the prestigious Alfred P. Sloan Chair. His eminent career at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center will long be remembered by staff and patients. He will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Laurance S. Rockefeller Honorary Co-Chairman Benno C. Schmidt Honorary Co-Chairman James D. Robinson III, Chairman Board of Overseers Douglas A. Warner III, Chairman Board of Managers H. Virgil Sherrill, Vice-Chairman Richard L. Gelb, Vice-Chairman Paul A. Marks, M.D. President Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        BURT-Michael, M.D., Ph.D. The Medical Board and entire staff of Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases note with great sorrow the death of their esteemed and respected colleague, Michael Burt. Dr. Burt joined the staff of Memorial Hospital in 1985 as an Assistant Attending Surgeon in the Department of Surgery. In 1992 he became an Attending Surgeon with the unique distinction of appointments in the Thoracic Service and the Gastroenterology and Nutrition Service. At the time of his death he was President of the Medical Staff and held the distinguished Alfred P. Sloan Chair. Dr. Burt, a nationally known thoracic surgeon, developed a procedureknown as isolated lung perfusion-that may help prevent the recurrence of some tumors. Dr. Burt also was a noted authority on nutrition and metabolism and was investigating new ways to enhance patients' abilities to tolerate cancer treatment. Dr. Burt will be greatly missed by all who knew him and by the many cancer patients throughout the world who will benefit from his scholarship and clinical expertise. David W. Golde, M.D. Physician-in-Chief and Chairman of the Medical Board James B. Dougherty, Jr., M.D. Deputy Physician-in-Chief William J. Hoskins, M.D. Deputy Physician-in-Chief Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases
        BURT-Michael, M.D., Ph.D. With heavy heart, the staff of the Department of Surgery at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center notes the untimely death of their colleague and outstanding teacher, Michael Burt. Dr. Burt began his long association with Memorial Sloan-Kettering in 1983 as a Fellow. At his death, Dr. Burt was President of the Medical Staff and a world renowned thoracic surgeon. In between, he graced our lives and the lives of his patients with his extraordinary knowledge and healing skills. He leaves a legacy of excellence and caring that his colleagues, friends, patients and family will always treasure. He was the surgeon's surgeon. We extend our deepest sympathy to Dr. Burt's family. They can be justly proud of this wonderful man and his accomplishments. Words are never enough. Murray F. Brennan, M.D., Chrmn and Staff Department of Surgery Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
      