
        GOTTESMAN-Esther (Garfunkel), on October 1, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin, adored mother of Milton, David and the late Alice, and loving mother-inlaw of Ruth. Devoted sister to Florence, Harold, Julian and the late Elsie and Mildred. Wonderful grandmother of Robert and Trudy, Alice and Larry, William and Debra. Loving great-grandmother of Benjamin, Sarah, Alan, Clara and Zachary. Funeral service is at 12 Noon, Sunday, October 5, at Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, 125 East 85th Street, NYC. Family requests no flowers be sent.
        GOTTESMAN-Esther. Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the passing of Esther Gottesman, a great Hadassah leader and leader of the Jewish people. A member of the National Board of Hadassah for 64 years, serving as a National Vice President and National Treasurer, as well as chair of various projects, Esther was renowned for her devotion to Jewish education, and for the training of young people in their commitment to Judaism and Zionism. She was responsible for the publication of ''Great Ages and Ideas of the Jewish People'', and devoted her life to teaching the next generation about their past while preparing them for future leadership. A lifelong Zionist, she was an early proponent of vocational education in Israel and guided the formation of the Hadassah College of Technology in Jerusalem, and continued to support it throughout her life. Beloved by all who knew her, Esther's wisdom, her elegance, dignity and grace, and her passion for Judaism, the Jewish people and Israel have made her a true woman of valor and an example for all who follow after her. We will miss her vision, her warmth and kindness, her passion. May her memory be for a blessing, and may her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marlene E. Post, Natl President Beth Wohlgelernter, Natl Exec Dir
        GOTTESMAN-Esther. The Center for Jewish History mourns the passing of the beloved wife of the late Benjamin Gottesman, devoted mother of Milton, David and Ruth Gottesman, and a loving grandmother and great grandmother. A visionary thinker, she has made a profound and lasting contribution to Jewish life to and all who knew her. Her wisdom, compassion and friendship will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Bruce Slovin, Chairman Joyce C. Kitey, Sr. Vice President The Center for Jewish History
      