
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Rockefeller University are profoundly saddened by the loss of our beloved friend, Nancy Dickerson Whitehead, an esteeemd member of The Rockefeller University Council since 1989. Her loyal friendship to the university and her advocacy of its medical research programs will be greatly missed. We admired her tremendous professional accomplishments as a television news correspondent, author, lecturer and president of her own independent televison production company. Her keen intelligence and astute insight into the world of government and politics have inspired succeeding generations of journalists. The Rockefeller University community will also treasure the memory of her warm and gracious nature, and the generous way in which she embraced those around her. With heartfelt sympathy, we extend our deepest condolences to her husband, John C. Whitehead, Trustee of the University, and to her family. Torsten N. Wiesel, President Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman Board of Trustees David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee Board of Trustees
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The members of the Board of Directors of Covenant House, and our staff and residents, mourn the death of Nancy Dickerson, beloved wife of John Whitehead. Since 1990 Nancy has served as an extraordinarily dynamic and hardworking member of this Board. Her unstinting commitment to the agency's mission and goals in service to homeless children of the street was repeatedly evident in her willingness to use her considerable influence in Washington and New York to interest those well placed in industry and government in assisting Covenant House in its work. Nancy demonstrated her remarkable loyalty to Covenant House throughout the period of her membership on the Board. Nancy Dickerson was a leader in the cause of helping the young people of Covenant House who have nowhere else to turn. May her husband, John, and her family take comfort in her selfless commitment to those most in need and least able to help themselves. We at Covenant House promise our fervent prayers for the repose of her soul.
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of our esteemed Board member, Nancy Dickerson. During Ms. Dickerson's many years of outstanding leadership the Hospital and the patients it serves benefited greatly from her wise counsel and tireless efforts. The compassion she exhibited for those in need provided an inspiration to all who were fortunate enough to have known her. She will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathies are extended to her husband, John C. Whitehead, and to her children, Elizabeth Earls, Jane Dickerson, Ann Pullion, Michael Dickerson and John Dickerson. Richard L. Menschel Winfield P. Jones Co-Chairmen of the Board of Trustees John R. Ahearn John R. Reynolds Co-Chief Executive Officers Russell F. Warren, MD, Surgeon-in-Chief
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Board of Directors and world-wide staff of the International Rescue Committee are deeply saddened by the passing of Nancy Dickerson, beloved wife of our esteemed Board Chairman and dear friend, John C. Whitehead. She was an integral part of the IRC family. Her frequent trips to refugee camps and her unwavering advocacy for the cause of refugees are a part of our history. We mourn her death and send deepest sympathies and condolences to John and all her family. Leo Cherne, Chairman Emeritus Winston Lord, Vice-Chair Liv Ullmann Vice-Chair International James C. Strickler, Chair, Executive Committee Reynold Levy, President Robert P. DeVecchi President Emeritus
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Board of Trustees, residents, alumni and staff of International House deeply mourn the loss of Nancy Dickerson, beloved wife of our Chairman, John C. Whitehead. Her accomplished life was an inspiration, and her energy, grace and joy of living left an indelible mark on this institution and all who knew her. Our profund sympathy is extended to her husband, children and grandchildren. William D. Rueckert, Chairman Executive Committee Donald L. Cuneo, President
        DICKERSON-Nancy. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns a woman of faith and courage. To our Trustee, John Whitehead, who has given leadership to our cause on behalf of religious freedom and human rights, and to the entire family we extend our sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier President Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, SJ. Vice President Dr. David H.C. Read Vice President
      