
        SCHEINER-Samuel (Sonny). Beloved husband to Royce, adored and devoted father to Randy and Tami, caring brother to Bea Schoedes. He was a unique individual, loved by all who were fortunate enough to be part of his life. He will be missed more than words can say. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, L.I., 10 A.M., Wednesday.
        SCHEINER-Sonny. It is with great sadness that Sonny has passed on, unexpectedly on Tuesday, October 28. He was our second brother and best friend for forty-three years. The dedication to his family was beyond reproach. His concern for his friends and the ones close to him was always monumental. The laughter, smiles and good times will be missed by all that knew and touched him. He has left a gigantic hole in my life and the lives of our family and friends. You will be missed forever, but never, never forgotten. Rest peacefully. Our utmost condolences to his wife, Royce, children Tami and Randy, sister Bea and other family members. Judy and Mel Marder and family
        SCHEINER-Samuel. We send our sympathies to Sonny's family: Royce, Randy and Tammy; and to his co-workers; and friend Ben Dreyfus. Sonny was a friend, companion and business associate for many years. He will be missed. Saul Fraiman, Fraiman and Associates
        SCHEINER-Sonny. The Board of Governors and members of the Seawane Club records with great sorrow the passing of its beloved member Sonny Scheiner and extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Royce and their family. Robert Roman, President
        SCHEINER - Samuel (Sonny). There is a new star shining in heaven. Brighter than any diamond or emerald. It is our dear Sonny. We will miss him. Our deepest condolences to Royce, Tami and Randy. Mona and Nat and Family
        SCHEINER-Sonny. A true friend, we could always count on you. We'll always remember the great times together. Our love is always with you. Bonny, Marvin, Sheri, Beth and Jeffrey
        SCHEINER-Sonny. To a very special person in our lives who will be missed by all of us. Our deepest condolences to Royce, Randy and Tami. Rest in Peace. We love you. Bernie, Diana and Family
        SCHEINER-Samuel (Sonny). A special man whose friendship, love and generosity will never be forgotten. Sharon and Doug
      