
        GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital, the entire Mount Sinai community, and physicians everywhere mourn the death of our esteemed colleague Richard Gorlin, MD. An internationally renowned physician, his extraordinary intelligence and energy propelled him to major achievements in ever-widening arenas of Medicine: from basic laboratory cardiologic research, to bedside Cardiology, to medical education and most recently to health care networking. He served Mount Sinai as Chair of Medicine and Physician-in-Chief, Dr. George Baehr Professor of Clinical Medicine, President of the Medical Board, member of the AAS Board of Directors, Senior Vice President of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and Medical Director of the Mount Sinai Health System. This gentleman-scholar excelled as brilliant scientist, astute and caring clinician, inspiring teacher and role model to generations of medical students and trainees. We miss him fondly and extend our sympathy to his devoted wife Florence, his children and family. Peter H. Rubin, MD, President Lynda Mandell MD, Secretary Amy J. Weinstein, Administrator
        GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine of the Mount Sinai Medical Center notes with great sorrow the passing of Dr. Richard Gorlin. Dr. Gorlin was our mentor and leader for two decades. He taught us that the best patient care is rendered by physicians/ scientists. Through his efforts and example, the Department of Medicine became preeminent in patient care, teaching and research. He continued to lead and teach even when afflicted by his cruel illness. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife Florence and his children. Your grief is ours. Alvin S. Teirstein, M.D., Director Pulmonary/Critical Care Medicine E. Neil Schachter, M.D., Associate Director Pulmonary/Critical Care Medicine The Mount Sinai Medical Center
        GORLIN-Richard, M.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our colleague and devoted friend, Richard Gorlin, M.D. A legendary clinician, teacher, leader and steward, Dr. Gorlin was our partner in practice and a determined advocate for patients and their families. We will miss Dr. Gorlin tremendously, and we extend our condolences to his wife, Florence, his children and grandchildren, and the entire family. Thomas Smith, RN, V.P., Nursing, on behalf of the Mount Sinai Hospital community of nurses.
        GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The Morchand Center for Clinical Competence of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine is deeply saddened by the passing of Richard Gorlin, M.D., a respected educator and loyal friend. His devotion to academic excellence and his strong support for improving patient care and medical education has left an indelible impression on thousands; he will long be remembered. To his wife and family, my heartfelt condolences. Mark H. Swartz, M.D., Director
        GORLIN-Richard, M.D. Sincerest condolences to Florence and the entire family. Our thoughts are with you. Mike and Renee Silverstein
        GORLIN-Richard, MD. A rare combination of brilliance, warmth and a great caring friend. Diane and Herb Jaffin
      