
        SLEWETT-Evelyn. The National Parkinson Foundation is deeply saddened by the recent passing of Evelyn Slewett, the beloved wife of our Chairman of the Board. Evelyn Slewett passed away on Tuesday, October 14, leaving behind her husband, Nathan and two beloved children, Alan and Robert, her daughter-in-law, Sheila and four grandchildren, Philip, Karen, Gregory and Danielle. Evelyn Slewett came from an intensely philanthropic background. Her father the late Andrew Miller of New York, founded Boys Town of Jerusalem and raised millions of dollars for Jewish charities throughout the world. Evelyn followed in her father's altruistic footsteps and encouraged her family to do the same. Her children and grandchildren are deeply involved in the charities she believed in and represent the fourth generation involved in the Boys Town of Jerusalem. She was a Founder of the National Parkinson Foundation, the University of Miami, Girls Town in Jerusalem, Mount Sinai Medical Center, the Miami Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Douglas Gardens, and the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis. In addition, she created and endowed the Slewett Free Loan Society in Israel. As the wife of the Chairman and one of the founding members of the National Parkinson Foundation, Evelyn traveled with her husband all over the world raising money for Parkinson's disease. Her dedication and commitment helped further the growth of the Foundation which encompasses offices in Miami, New York, Washington, DC and 50 Centers of Excellence throughout the world. The National Parkinson Foundation will greatly miss our sweet, courageous Evelyn. Donations in her honor may be sent to the Evelyn Slewett Parkinson's Research Fund, C/O NPF, 1501 N.W. 9th Avenue, Miami, Florida 33136. Nat'l Parkinson Foundation Staff Board of Directors Board of Governors Paul Oreffice Harold Kravitz Herbert Zemel Emilio Alonso-Mendoza
        SLEWETT-Evelyn. Reb Nochum'ke of Horodna (Grodna) was a legendary tzaddik - kind, learned and incredibly humble. The equally legendary Chofetz Chaim regarded Reb Nochum'ke as his teacher and inspiration. He died in Horodna on October 13, 1880. That same week a baby boy was born in Horodna. His parents named him Nochum, with the dream that he, like his namesake, would electrify the Jewish world and make it a better place. He did. Horodna was reduced to ashes, but that Nochum immigrated to America and planted the philanthropic seeds which would blossom into institutions of Jewish learning, hospitals, free loan and immigrant aid societies, and homes for the aged. He was noted for his benevolence - but mostly as a warm, kind, caring person, who preferred to give his help quietly, even secretly, like his namesake. Not only did he come to these shores to begin his family life anew, but he brought with him a family legacy which would enhance the quality of Jewish life for generations to come. That Nochum was Andrew Miller, father of Evelyn Slewett. Evelyn, following the example of her parents, was a woman of sterling character, nobility of soul and generosity of spirt. She selflessly devoted her time, energy & means to the lofty cause of helping others. Together with her partner in life and philanthropy, Nathan - whose role as President of the National Parkinson Foundation is legendary - Evelyn was a Chai Founder at Boys Town and established major Scholarship Endowments, enabling the school to fulfill its mission of turning young boys from limited backgrounds into young men with limitless futures. Boys Town takes spcial pride noting that in a time when the issue of Jewish Continuity is a priority concern, we are the beneficiaries of four consecutive generations of support & leadership from this exemplary family. Our hearfelt condolences to the entire Slewett and Miller families. May they find comfort knowing that Evelyn's good deeds will continue to inspire and will endure as an everlasting blessing and tribute. Rabbi Moshe Linchner, V. Chmn. Sidney Cooperman, Pres, So Florida Friends of BTJ Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Exec V.P. Rabbi Simcha Freedman, Exec Dir, So Florida Friends of BTJ
      