
        GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our most cherished friend and esteemed colleague Richard Gorlin, M.D., Senior Vice President of The Mount Sinai Medical Center, The Dr. George Baehr Professor of Clinical Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Medical Director of The Mount Sinai Health System, and internationally-renowned cardiologist in whose honor the Richard Gorlin, M.D./Heart Research Foundation Professorship in Cardiology was established last month for the Director of The Cardiovascular Institute of The Mount Sinai Medical Center. Born in Jersey City, NJ, Dr. Gorlin earned his undergraduate and medical degrees at Harvard, and was associated for more than two decades with Harvard Medical School and Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, where he rose to the position of Chief of the Cardiovascular Division, before joining Mount Sinai in 1974 as Murray M. Rosenberg Professor and Chairman of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine, a post he held for 18 years. He played a pivotal role in strengthening the capacity of Mount Sinai School of Medicine during its critical, formative years, developing programs of excellence in numerous medical disciplines, recruiting outstanding faculty, setting and achieving ambitious research goals, establishing a Division of Molecular Medicine to help Mount Sinai realize the potential of modern biomedical research, and transmitting his vast knowledge and skill to medical students. He also served Mount Sinai in numerous additional capacities, ranging from membership in the President's Advisory Group and President of the Medical Board of The Mount Sinai Hospital, to Dean for Clinical Affairs of Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Dr. Gorlin was known for his compassionate as well as expert care of patients, and he was recognized worldwide for his numerous outstanding contributions to the diagnosis and management of cardiovascular disease. He authored more than 400 published papers and over 100 invited articles, delivered no less than 75 honorary lectures, served on the editorial boards of prestigious journals, and was Editor-inChief of the journal Primary Cardiology for 20 years. He held countless appointments on task forces and memberships in professional societies, and his numerous awards included the Scientific Achievement Award from the American Heart Association, The New York Academy of Medicine's Glorney-Raisebeck Award and Medal for distinguished lifetime achievement in cardiovascular disease, and the Jacobi Medallion, highest award of The Mount Sinai Alumni. He will be remembered most fondly for his compassion, dedication, wisdom and personal warmth, and he will be sorely missed. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Florence, his children, Douglas, William, and Wendy Tayer, his son-in-law Marc Tayer, daughter-in-law Natalie Gorlin, grandchildren Madeleine and Melanie Tayer, and the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Wendy Z. Goldstein, Director Alan L. Schiller, M.D., President, Medical Board
        GORLIN-Richard, M.D. It is with great sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished and cherished colleague. Physician to legions of physicians, he was highly esteemed by all who knew him for his scholarship, judgement and clinical acumen. His prodigious scientific output has included landmark discoveries in valvular heart disease and coronary artery disease. These studies have been seminal to the vast array of new imaging and therapeutic measures now available for the study and treatment of heart disease. Among his greatest achievements has been his steadfast nurturing of young investigators, fellows, residents and students, providing the support necessary for them to flourish, always with the strongest emphasis on the need for the humanistic approach to the practice of medicine. After having served as Chairman of the Department of Medicine for 18 years, Dr. Gorlin continued to serve the institution as a leader in planning health care delivery to the community for the next century. In 1991, the Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Gorlin in acknowledgement of his profound professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the Medical Center and School. Our sincere condolences are extended to his wife Florence, and his entire family. Wayne S. Fuchs, M.D., President Avi Barbasch, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, M.D., Treasurer
        GORLIN-Richard, MD. The Cardiovascualar Institute of The Mount Sinai Medical Center notes with profound sorrow the passing of our distinguished colleague and dear friend Richard Gorlin, MD, the Dr. George Baehr Professor of Clinical Medicine and the inspiration for the Richard Gorlin, MD/ Heart Research Foundation Professorship in Cardiology. Dr. Gorlin was an insightful medical investigator, compassionate healer, and gifted teacher whose achievements in advancing our knowledge of Cardiology are recognized throughout the world. His numerous scientific acomplishments included landmark discoveries in valvular heart disease and coronary artery disease, and published studies seminal to the vast array of imaging and therapeutic measurements that have become integral parts of the study and treatment of heart disease. He will be missed most deeply. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, children, grandchildren and his entire family. Valentin Fuster, MD, Phd Richard Gorlin, MD/Heart Research Foundation Professor of Cardiology; Director, The Cardiovascular Institute of The Mount Sinai Medical Center.
        GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital, the entire Mount Sinai community, and physicians everywhere mourn the death of our esteemed colleague Richard Gorlin, MD. An internationally renowned physician, his extraordinary intelligence and energy propelled him to major achievements in ever-widening arenas of Medicine: from basic laboratory cardiologic research, to bedside Cardiology, to medical education and most recently to health care networking. He served Mount Sinai as Chair of Medicine and Physician-in-Chief, Dr. George Baehr Professor of Clinical Medicine, President of the Medical Board, member of the AAS Board of Directors, Senior Vice President of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and Medical Director of the Mount Sinai Health System. This gentleman-scholar excelled as brilliant scientist, astute and caring clinician, inspiring teacher and role model to generations of medical students and trainees. We miss him fondly and extend our sympathy to his devoted wife Florence, his children and family. Peter H. Rubin, MD, President Lynda Mandell MD, Secretary Amy J. Weinstein, Administrator
        GORLIN-Richard, MD. The Division of Cardiology at Beth Israel Medical Center notes with great sadness the passing of a friend and teacher. Dr. Gorlin's extraordinary career influenced generations of cardiologists and helped shape the philosophy of numerous cardiology divisions across the country, including our own. His special combination of intellectual curiosity, clinical skills, compassion for patients, and leadership will be missed by us all. Thomas Killip, MD Executive Vice President for Medical Affairs Stephen G. Baum, MD Chairman, Department of Medicine Steven F. Horowitz, MD Chief, Division of Cardiology
        GORLIN-Dr. Richard. In memory of Richard Gorlin, MD. Longtime friend of our department, dedicated and loving husband of Florence Gorlin, our friend and past administrator. In this difficult and sorrowful time our continued support, love, and friendship remain. Kenneth L. Davis, MD Professor and Chairman And your friends in the Department of Psychiatry Mount Sinai School of Medicine
      