
        GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The members of the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery of the Mt. Sinai Medical Center note with sorrow the loss of Dr. Richard Gorlin. His deep commitment to the welfare of his patients, to the growth of his proteges, and to the art of medicine were and continue to be an inspiration to those who knew him. His contributions to the science of medicine live on as a legacy to our profession. We will not soon see his like again. Randall B. Griepp, M.D., Professor and Chairman M. Arisan Ergin, M.D. Robert S. Litwak, M.D. Paul A. Kirschner, M.D. Steven L. Lansman, M.D. Jorge L. Camunas, M.D. Jan D. Galla, M.D. Khanh H. Nguyen, M.D. Jock N. McCullough, M.D.
        GORLIN-Richard M.D. The physicians and staff of Mount Sinai Faculty Practice Associates mourn the loss of Dr. Richard Gorlin. He accomplished so much and gave so much. We will remember him always as a compassionate physician, a brilliant scientist, an astute counselor and a good friend. Our deepest condolences to Florence and to his entire family. Kristjan T. Ragnarsson, M.D. Chair, Board of Governors Burton P. Drayer, M.D. Vice Chair, Board of Governors Sloane Elman, Executive Director Faculty Practice Associates Mount Sinai School of Medicine of the City University of New York
        GORLIN-Richard, M.D. The Board of Directors, volunteers and staff of the American Heart Association/New York City Affiliate mourn the passing of Richard Gorlin, M.D., former Board President. His contributions to cardiology and science touched the lives of so many. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Gayllis R. Ward, Esq., CPA, Chairman of the Board Diane M. Sixsmith, M.D., Pres. Richard I. Levin, M.D., Immediate Past President Michael L. Weamer, Exec V.P.
        GORLIN-Richard, M.D. With an overwhelming sense of loss we note the passing of Dr. Richard Gorlin, a dear friend and esteemed colleague. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Florence, and to his entire family. Eva B. Griepp, M.D. and Randall B. Griepp, M.D.
      