
        ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah Bimko. October 3, 1997. On Friday night after Rosh Hashanah, surrounded by her children and granddaughter, our beloved, heroic, unique Hadassah left us at the age of 85 after a valiant battle with liver failure resulting from malaria and hepatitis she contracted at Auschwitz. After saving the lives of hundreds of Jews at Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen, and keeping alive 149 Jewish children at Belsen, she organized and led the efforts to restore to health the liberated Jews of Belsen. One of the earliest leaders of the survivors of the Holocaust together with her late and unforgettable husband Yossel, she was the principal witness for the prosecution at the first war crimes trial of the German murderers apprehended at Belsen. She served as head of the Health Department of the Jewish Committee of Belsen and the Central Commitee of Jews in the British Zone of Germany. She was a member of President Carter's Commission on the Holocaust and one of the founding members of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, where she served until 1994 as Chair of the Archives Committee and on the Executive Committee. She was the honorary President of the World Federation of BergenBelsen Survivors. The beloved mother of Menachem and Jeanie and devoted, cherished grandmother of Jodi, she will live in our hearts forever. Services Monday, 12 noon, Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 E. 87th St., NYC. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Dr. Hadassah Bimko Rosensaft Memorial Fund of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Washington, DC.
        ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students deeply mourn the death of Dr. Hadassah Rosensaft, an honorary alumna of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion. She was an inspiring example of a woman governed by love and conscience, a woman of noble spirit, who in a life rich with service gloriously fulfilled the role of a woman of valor. She had borne testimony with elegance to the nightmare of the Shoah and her combination of courage, mirrored in her personal commitment and moral passion, helped sustain the lives of children in the darkness of Jewish history. She was a source of light as she delivered the future of Israel and rejoiced that ''her children had at last come home.'' We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her dearest Menachem, Jean and Jodi. May her memory be a blessing. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman President, HUC-JIR Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk Chancellor, HUC-JIR Burton Lehman Chairman, Board of Governors
        ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah. The United States Holocaust Memorial Council deeply mourns the death of its cherished longtime colleague, Dr. Hadassah Rosensaft. A member of the President's Commission on the Holocaust, the forerunner of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, she became a founding member of the Council, leading its Archives Committee and serving on the Executive Committee until 1994. Her heroic work to save others, even while herself a Nazi prisoner, her valiant efforts on behalf of the newly liberated, and her tireless commitment to education and remembrance forever exemplify the lessons of the Holocaust for future generations. Our heartfelt sympathy to Menachem, Jean, Jodi and her entire family. Miles Lerman, Chairperson Ruth B. Mandel, Vice Chairperson Walter Reich, Museum Director
        ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah. We deeply mourn the loss of Hadassah Rosensaft, an extraordinary and courageous woman, the mother of Menachem Rosensaft, our founding Chairman. She was one of the true heroes of the Holocaust. With her skill and compassion, she alleviated the pain of many of the survivors and victims during their concentration camp internment. We shall miss her warmth and wisdom. Our deepest sympathy to Menachem, Jeannie and Jodi. International Network of Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors
        ROSENSAFT-Hadassah. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her son Menachem, and to the entire family, our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Alan Levine Chairman of the Board Robert P. Antler President
        ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah. Her devotion to the well being of children was an inspiration to us all. Our hearts are with you, Menachem, Jean and Jodi. Dr. Judith Kestenberg Dr. Eva Fogelman Dr. Helene Bass-Wichelhaus Bernie Weber International Study of Organized Persecution of Children, A Project of Child Development Research
        ROSENSAFT-Dr. Hadassah. With deep sorrow, we mourn the death of our dearest Hadassah. She was an integral part of our daily lives. Her generosity in every way, her dignity in her most trying days, her sense of humor, her laughter, her understanding-we just loved her. How we will miss her. Our hearts go out to her beloved Meni, Jeanie, and her treasured Jodi. Malka, Mannes, Ghita and Tirzah
      