
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Board of Directors, staff and national membership of the United Nations Association of the United States of America (UNA-USA) are deeply saddened by the passing of Nancy Dickerson, beloved wife of our esteemed Chairman, the Hon. John C. Whitehead. We are grateful for her activity on behalf of the Association and her valuable participation in our peacekeeping trips, and we are inspired by her grace, compassion and commitment to those less fortunate. She will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to John and all her family. Michael W. Sonnenfeldt, Chair, Executive Committee of the Board Ruth J. Hinerfeld, Vice Chair, Board of Directors Estelle Linzer, Vice Chair, Board of Directors Arthur Ross, Vice Chair, Board of Directors William J. Rouhana, Jr., Vice Chair, Board of Directors Christopher W. Brody, Treasurer Shirley Quisenberry, Secretary Alvin P. Adams, Jr., President and CEO
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of our esteemed Board member, Nancy Dickerson. During Ms. Dickerson's many years of outstanding leadership the Hospital and the patients it serves benefited greatly from her wise counsel and tireless efforts. The compassion she exhibited for those in need provided an inspiration to all who were fortunate enough to have known her. She will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathies are extended to her husband, John C. Whitehead, and to her children, Elizabeth Earls, Jane Dickerson, Ann Pullion, Michael Dickerson and John Dickerson. Richard L. Menschel Winfield P. Jones Co-Chairmen of the Board of Trustees John R. Ahearn John R. Reynolds Co-Chief Executive Officers Russell F. Warren, MD, Surgeon-in-Chief
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Officers and Board of Trustees of the Asia Society note with profound sadness the death of Nancy Dickerson, beloved wife of our Trustee and Chairman Emeritus, John C. Whitehead. For many years while her husband served as Chairman of the Society, she joined him in traveling throughout Asia on our behalf, participating in international conferences and meetings with Asian leaders. Here in New York and throughout the country, she enthusiastically joined in our cultural, social and public policy activities, lending her warmth, expertise and insight to every event. To her husband John, her children and her grandchildren, we offer our deepest sympathies on their loss. Nicholas Platt, President M. R. Greenberg, Chairman Asia Society
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater grieve the death of Nancy Dickerson Whitehead and convey their love and condolences to Board Member John C. Whitehead. Nancy delighted in the theater and took much pleasure in virtually all the Lincoln Center plays she saw. Nancy enjoyed John's very active participation on the Board as Chairman of the Executive Committee and Co-Chairman of the Capital Campaign, and her proprietary interest in the theater added to her natural enthusiasm and sense of wonder at its manifestations and magic. She will be missed by all of us and we send our sympathy to John and all the members of her family. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Exec. Producer
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Board, Trustees and Staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America, are profoundly saddened by the loss of Nancy Dickerson, beloved wife of our Chairman, John C. Whitehead. Her friendship and encouragement will be sorely missed. Our profound sympathy is extended to John and her entire family. John F. McGillicuddy President, Board of Directors Drew Lewis Co-Chairman, Board of Trustees Richard M. Ruffino Scout Executive, Chief Executive Officer
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of an imminent journalist and a beloved friend of Jerusalem. The Foundation, together with the citizens of Jerusalem, extend their condolences to our devoted board member, John Whitehead, and to the Dickerson and Whitehead families. She will always be remembered for her keen interest in preserving Jerusalem's rich historic heritage. Teddy Kollek, Chairman International Council Ruth Cheshin, Int'l Pres. Alvin H. Einbender, Nat'l Chrmn. Michael Neiditch, Nat'l Pres.
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The staff of the Financial Services Volunteer Corps mourn the passing of Nancy Dickerson, a woman of extraordinary grace, intelligence and talent. We all admired her pathbreaking professional accomplishments, as well as her courage. We extend our heartfelt condolences to John C. Whitehead, our co-founder and Chairman, and to her entire family. John L. Walker, President J. Andrew Spindler, Exec. Dir. Margaret F. Mudd, Managing Dir.
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Board of Managers, alumni, administrators, faculty and staff of Haverford College are deeply saddened at the death of Nancy Dickerson, beloved wife of John C. Whitehead, alumnus, emeritus manager, and former chair of our Board. We send our deep sympathy to John and the children. John B. Hurford, Chairman Haverford College Board of Managers Thomas R. Tritton President of the College
        DICKERSON-Nancy. The Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy is saddened by the loss of a long standing Board Member. We admired her numerous accomplishments and greatly appreciated her commitment to Central Park. We send our deepest sympathies and condolences to John and her family. The Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy
        DICKERSON-Nancy. We mourn the loss of a devoted Women's Committee Board Member and a dear friend of the Central Park Conservancy. We extend deepest sympathy to her husband John and her family. Ira M. Millstein, Chairman Karen H. Putnam, President
        DICKERSON - Nancy. The Trustees and Advisors of Outward Bound U.S.A. extend their deepest sympathy to their beloved friend John Whitehead and his family for the loss of his wife, Nancy Dickerson.
      