
        LICHTENSTEIN - Roy. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Roy Lichtenstein. From a vast array of sources in our common culture, he fashioned an art of sharp sophistication that was humorous, ironic, elegant, and continually inventive. His brashness on canvas was balanced in life by a quiet, self-effacing manner informed by tremendous good will and generosity. Few artists so admired in the inner circles of the art world have had such a global impact on the visual sensibility of their time, and fewer still have commanded such a special blend of love and respect from those who knew him. He altered the way we see our culture, and the way we think and feel about it. Though his career was long and productive, we thought that he, like his art, was permanently blessed with an unassailable edge of usefulness. A singular joy has been taken from us, and in our sadness and loss we offer condolences to his beloved wife Dorothy and his family. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director Kirk Varnedoe, Chief Curator, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, N.Y.
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation deeply mourn the loss of Roy Lichtenstein, one of the foremost artists of the twentieth century. The Guggenheim Museum has had a long standing relationship with the artist, staging his first survey exhibition in 1969 and the definitive retrospective of his prolific career in 1993. His paintings, sculptures, and works on paper figure proudly in the Museum's permanent collection. Lichtenstein's oeuvre exerted a worldwide influence for four decades and is certain to endure in years to come. We extend our most sincere sympathy to Dorothy Lichtenstein and to the members of his family. Peter Lawson-Johnson, Chairman Ronald O. Perelman, President Thomas Krens, Director The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation
        LICHTENSTEIN - Roy. The Trustees, Fellows, Residents and staff of the American Academy in Rome mourn the death of Roy Lichtenstein, RAAR '89, esteemed Resident and Trustee Emeritus. The world has lost a great artist and we have lost a valued friend. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Dorothy, and his family. Michael I. Sovern, Chairman Board of Trustees Andrew Heiskell, Chairman, Executive Committee Adele Chatfield-Taylor, President
        LICHTENSTEIN - Roy. Agnes Gund, founder of Studio in a School, its Board of Directors and staff mourn the passing of their dear friend and Board Member, Roy Lichtenstein. Roy's generous support of Studio's programs in New York City Public Schools and his interest and caring in bringing the arts to children will be sadly missed. We extend our sympathy and condolences to his wife, Dorothy, and their families. Agnes Gund, Founder Thomas Cahill, Executive Director The Studio in a School Association
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Parrish Art Museum deeply mourn the passing of Roy Lichtenstein. His wry brilliance enriched the way we all see. We extend our sympathy and heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dorothy and their families. Mildred C. Brinn, Chairman, Board of Trustees Trudy C. Kramer, Director The Parrish Art Museum Southampton, NY
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The Board of Directors and staff of Independent Curators Incorporated (ICI) are deeply saddened by the death of Roy Lichtenstein. His contributions as an artist and humanitarian will be greatly missed. We extend our sympathy and heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dorothy and to the rest of his family. Gerrit L. Lansing, Chairman Sandra Lang, Executive Director Independent Curators Inc.
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The Tel Aviv Museum of Art and its American Friends deeply mourn the loss of a dear friend. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dorothy, and to the entire family. American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum Uzi Zucker, Chairman Board of Trustees Tel Aviv Museum of Art Mordechai Omer Director & Chief Curator
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The Brooklyn Academy of Music remembers Roy Lichtenstein with great affection and admiration. He had served as a Trustee and was extraordinarily generous and always gracious. His poster launched the first Next Wave Festival. We will miss his smile and his presence. We send Dorothy our love. Harvey Lichtenstein BAM Staff and Trustees
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The Board of Directors and Staff of Artists Space mourn the passing of their esteemed Board Member of 17 years. Roy's active participation and generous support has contributed immeasurably to the organization and in furthering our mission to support young emerging artists. He will be deeply missed.
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The children, staff and board members of the Bridgehampton Child Care and Recreation Center in Bridgehampton, Long Island mourn the passing of Roy Lichtenstein and extend their deepest sympathies to Dorothy Lichtenstein, our true and dear friend.
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The Board and staff of The American Federation of Arts mourn the passing of a great artist and a great friend. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Dorothy, and their families. Robert M. Meltzer, Chairman Jan Mayer, President Serena Rattazzi, Director
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. A brillant man whose heart was not only in the arts, but in the continuing struggle for reproductive freedom. Our deepest sympathy to Dorothy and her family. Planned Parenthood of Suffolk County
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The Board, staff and members of People For the American Way mourn the loss of our colleague, a leading champion of free expression, diversity and respect for individual differences.
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The members of the American Academy of Arts and Letters note with sorrow the death of their esteemed colleague whose passing will be mourned by the world of art.
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and friend, Roy Lichtenstein, and send condolences to his family.
      