
        LICHTENSTEIN - Roy. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Roy Lichtenstein. From a vast array of sources in our common culture, he fashioned an art of sharp sophistication that was humorous, ironic, elegant, and continually inventive. His brashness on canvas was balanced in life by a quiet, self-effacing manner informed by tremendous good will and generosity. Few artists so admired in the inner circles of the art world have had such a global impact on the visual sensibility of their time, and fewer still have commanded such a special blend of love and respect from those who knew him. He altered the way we see our culture, and the way we think and feel about it. Though his career was long and productive, we thought that he, like his art, was permanently blessed with an unassailable edge of youthfulness. A singular joy has been taken from us, and in our sadness and loss we offer condolences to his beloved wife Dorothy and his family. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director Kirk Varnedoe, Chief Curator, Department of Painting and Sculpture, The Museum of Modern Art, N.Y.
        LICHTENSTEIN - Roy. Agnes Gund, founder of Studio in a School, its Board of Directors and staff mourn the passing of their dear friend and Board Member, Roy Lichtenstein. Roy's generous support of Studio's programs in New York City Public Schools and his interest and caring in bringing the arts to children will be sadly missed. We extend our sympathy and condolences to his wife, Dorothy, and their families. Agnes Gund, Founder Thomas Cahill, Executive Director The Studio in a School Association
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Parrish Art Museum deeply mourn the passing of Roy Lichtenstein. His wry brilliance enriched the way we all see. We extend our sympathy and heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dorothy and their families. Mildred C. Brinn, Chairman, Board of Trustees Trudy C. Kramer, Director The Parrish Art Museum Southampton, NY
        LICHTENSTEIN-Roy. A gentle and generous spirit, who through his art and commitment to freedom of expression has touched a generation of young artists. A quiet mentor for us all, he opened up a world of possibilities. We will miss him deeply. Our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Dorothy and his family. Jeanette Ingberman, Papo Colo, Founders/Directors, the board and staff of Exit Art/The First World
      