
        HANDLER-Miriam A. Age 82. Died on October 16, 1997 after a long illness. Cherished wife of Professor Milton Handler; devoted mother of Carole E. Handler; adored grandmother of Lisi and Lani Schoenbach; beloved sister of Milton Adler & Avivah Benamy; beloved aunt of Dr. Daniel Adler, Denise Jaffe, Elan Benamy; dedicated grand-aunt of numerous nieces and nephews. Her rare beauty was matched by her charm and dedicated service to the various philanthropies in which she played a leading role. The family will receive friends at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, on Saturday, October 18th between the hours of 7 and 9 PM. Funeral services will be held at the Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th Street & Madison Ave, Sunday, October 19th at 10:30 AM. Burial private.
        HANDLER - Miriam. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America mourns the passing of our beloved friend and colleague, Miriam Handler, who had celebrated 50 years of service on the National Board. Miriam brought wisdom, elegance and grace to all her endeavors. She held a myriad of Chairmanships, a favorite was Hebrew Studies Chair. She served as Hebrew Editor of ''Hadassah Magazine.'' Her love of culture and the arts enhanced Hadassah for the many years that she was our consultant on fine arts. She took a deep interest in Israeli artists cultivating and supporting their work. She visited Israel frequently: both she and her husband were avid Zionists. To her husband Professor Milton Handler and family we extend heartfelt sympathy. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marlene E. Post President National Hadassah Beth Wohlgelernter, Exec Dir
        HANDLER-Miriam. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum are deeply saddened by the loss of Miriam Handler, Life Trustee and former Vice-Chair. Miriam dedicated her heart and soul to the Museum for well over twenty years. Her leadership contributed to the growth and success of the Museum's collection, exhibitions, gift shop, and gala fund-raising events. Great sympathy is extended to her dear husband Milton Handler and to their entire family. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
        HANDLER-Miriam. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband, Professor Milton Handler and to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Alan Levine, Ch. of the Bd. Robert P. Antler, President
        HANDLER-Miriam. The law firm of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler, LLP extends its deepest sympathy to its senior partner Professor Milton Handler, Carole E. Handler and their entire family.
        HANDLER-Miriam A. Valiant lady. Herbert and Eileen
      