
        POSNER-Lillian P. On October 17, 1997. Loving wife of Alan H. Posner. Beloved mother of Dr. Marshall R. Posner, Jeffrey P. Posner, Matthew A. Posner and Claudia A. Posner. Loving grandmother of M. Bowen Posner and Lily G. Posner. Service Tuesday, 12 noon, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St. Contributions to the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies would be appreciated.
        POSNER-Lillian P. The members of the Board of Trustees of Catholic Medical Center of Brooklyn and Queens mourn the passing of Lillian P. Posner, wife of Alan H. Posner, Member of the CMC Board of Trustees. We offer our heartfelt prayers and our deepest sympathy to the Posner family on their great loss. Most Rev. Joseph M. Sullivan Episcopal Vicar for Health and Human Services Chairman, Board of Trustees
        POSNER-Lillian P. The members of the administrative staff of Catholic Medical Center of Brooklyn and Queens deeply regret the death of Lillian P. Posner, wife of Alan H. Posner, Member of the CMC Board of Trustees. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to the Posner family, and offer them our prayers in this time of sorrow. William D. McGuire Pres. and Chief Executive Officer
        POSNER-Lillian P. The members of the Medical Board of Catholic Medical Center of Brooklyn and Queens note with sorrow the passing of Lillian P. Posner, wife of Alan H. Posner, Member of the CMC Board of Trustees. We are saddened by the Posner family's loss, and we extend our deepest sympathy to them. Sebastian Avolese, M.D. President, Medical Board
        POSNER-Lillian. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends heart felt condolences to our esteemed board member, Alan Posner, on the passing of his beloved wife. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Martin S. Begun, President Michael S. Miller, Executive VP
        POSNER-Lillian. The Board of Directors and Shareholders of 911 Park Avenue extend our deepest sympathy to our President and family on the passing of Lillian, beloved wife and mother.
      