
        DWYER-Virginia A. Retired Senior Vice-President of AT&T, died Monday, September 29, 1997 following a lengthy illness. She was 76. ''Ginny'' was a major presence. She was a Director and Deputy Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the University of Rochester; and a Board member of Eaton Corporation, Schering-Plough, Borden, Southern Company, the Atlantic Companies, and Georgia Power. She also served as a Director of St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan, Chairman, Finance Committee of the National Council-Girl Scouts of America and consultant to the Financial Advisory Board of the Sisters of Charity. She was named Dame of Malta by Pope John Paul and was a Director of the YWCA of New York. She joined Western Electric in 1943 in actuarial operations. She progressed through Western and then AT&T where she was named Treasurer in 1981. Four decades after joining the company she was asked to set up the organization that implemented the court-ordered divestiture. She retired in 1986. She is survived by a brother and sister-in-law, Jack and Nancy Dwyer of Naples, FL; a sister and a brother-in-law, Marie and Dale Buley of Seaford, LI; eight nieces and nephews and thirteen great nieces and nephews, and many, many friends. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st Street, NYC on Thursday and Friday, 3-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral mass Saturday at 10 AM at St. Paul the Apostle R.C. Church, 415 W. 59th St., NYC. Memorial contributions may be made to Virginia Dwyer Memorial Scholarship, University of Rochester R.C., Box 270032, Rochester, N.Y. 14627-0032.
        DWYER-Virginia A. The Board of Trustees, Sisters of Charity, Medical Staff, Hospital Auxiliary, Administration & the entire family of St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center of New York mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and former member of our Board of Trustees. Born in New York City on May 11, 1921, Ms. Dwyer distinguished herself as a member of our Finance and Investment, Executive and Nominating Committees and was Chairperson of the Planning Committee. She was named Trustee Emeritus at the time of her retirement from the Board in 1991. Ms. Dwyer also distinguished herself as Chairperson of the University of Rochester Board of Trustees and as a Senior Vice President for Finance at AT&T. While many will remember Ms. Dwyer for her significant achievements, we will remember her for her leadership, dedication, compassion and sense of good will. With great sadness we extend our prayers and condolences to her family. Thomas A. Coleman, Chairman of the Board Karl P. Adler, M.D., President, Chief Exec. Officer
      