
        SMITH-Arthur E., nationally renowned interior designer, died Friday of complications from cancer and renal failure at New York Hospital. He was 56. A native of Vidalia, Ga, he graduated from Auburn University's Interior Design program in 1960. Mr. Smith moved to New York City in 1962 where he worked with Billy Baldwin, first as his protege and then as his partner until Mr. Baldwin's retirement in 1972. Mr. Smith has had his own firm since that time. In 1988 he decided to expand his business and opened A Smith Antiques, Ltd. Mr. Smith's work has been featured in Architectural Digest, House & Garden and Veranda Magazine, along with the New York Times and other cultural publications. In 1990 Architectural Digest included Mr. Smith in its top 100 world-wide listing of interior designers. He is survived by his mother, Mary C. Smith and sister, Marilou Smith Russell, both of Vidalia as well as a nephew, Chris Russell of Charleston, SC, a niece, Sue Ann Wilson of Marietta and three great nephews. Memorial services will be held in New York and Vidalia. The funeral will be private. In lieu of flowers the family has requested donations be made to: Blood and Cancer Research Fund, in memory of Arthur E. Smith, 525 East 68th Street, New York, NY 10021.
        SMITH-Arthur E. Friends from all over the world from such places as: your birthplace Vidalia, GA; your beloved Isle of Manhattan, South Hampton, Quogue, East Hampton, Oyster Bay, Fire Island, New York; Philadelphia, PA; Baltimore, MD; Washington D.C.; Arlington, Middleburg, VA; Chicago, Lake Forest, Oak Park, IL; Lexington and Versailles, KY; Sedona, AZ; Charleston and Spartanburg, SC; Macon, Atlanta, Auburn, Savannah GA; Nantucket and Boston, MA; Providence, RI; Miami, South Beach, Palm Beach, Fort Lauderdale, Gulfport, FL; Danbury and Greenwich, Westport CT; Charlotte, NC; Abiquiu and Santa Fe, NM; Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Diego and Hollywood, CA; Honolulu, HI; Bermuda, and the Isle of Mustique; Mexico City & Acapulco, Mexico; Rio de Janiero; Brazil; Montreal, Toronto and Quebec City, Canada; London, England; Monte Carlo, Principality of Monaco; Madrid, Spain; Paris, your beloved St. Jean-Cap Ferrat, Nice, France; the Holy Vatican City; Rome, Milan, Venice, Florence, and your beloved Naples and Capri, Italy; Lausanne and Lugano, Switzerland; your beloved Dublin, Ireland; Tangier, Morocco; Athens, Greece; Beirut and Tripoli, Lebanon; Moscow & St. Petersburg, Russia; Sidney and Perth, Australia; Tokyo, Japan wish you farewell. We shall always miss you and your warmth, your smile, your generosity and your talent which you gave to all of us freely and abundantly. Your Devoted Worldwide Family of Friends.
        SMITH-Arthur. Age 56. One of the country's most noted interior designers died in New York Hospital on October 2, 1997 after a short illness. He was beloved and cherished by his many friends and he will long be remembered. Louis Weinel and Darracova
        SMITH-Arthur E. As Greg Dawson once wrote: ''I am not one but half of two. Only divisible by you.'' We had hoped we would not see the day the other went first. Dear Arthur, I lost. Andrew
        SMITH-Arthur. The six letters of your name, Arthur, mean this to me: A-Advising, R-Right, T-Truthful, H-Humble, U-Understanding; R-Rejoycing in Life. Salvatore and Alberto
        SMITH-Arthur. Friend and colleague, we will remember you always for your kindness and grace. Anne and Richard
        SMITH-Arthur. Great teacher and friend. Thank you for your time, patience and design excellence. Rob Robinson
      