
        TWERSKY-Rabbi Dr. Isadore. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a distinguished scholar and authority on Maimonides and Raavad, an eminent educator whose life embodied the cross-cultural enrichment at the heart of our institution. Erudite and intellectually demanding, he was a gentle and sensitive man. Ordained by our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary and a YU honorary degree recipient, he perpetuated an illustrious family legacy as the Tolner Rebbe and was Nathan Littauer Professor of Hebrew Literature and Philosophy at Harvard University. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Atarah-daughter of the late Rabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik, whose philosophy is central to YU and profoundly influenced Jewish thought in our age; to his children, Rabbi Mayer E. (and Faige) Twersky, who succeeded Rabbi Soloveitchik as Leib Merkin Distinguished Professor of Talmud and Jewish Philosophy at RIETS, Rabbi Moshe (and Basha) Twersky, and Tziporah (and Rabbi Jonathan) Rosenblatt, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        TWERSKY - Professor Isadore. The Center for Israel & Jewish Studies, Columbia University, mourns the untimely passing of our esteemed colleague, Professor Isadore Twersky of Harvard University and extends its deep sympathy to his wife Atara and family. Professor Yosef H. Yershalmi, Director Professor Michael Stanislawski, Associate Director
        TWERSKY-Rabbi Yitzchak. SAR Academy along with the entire Riverdale Jewish community extend condolences to Rebbetzin Tzippora Rosenblatt and her husband Rabbi Jonathan Rosenblatt of the RJC upon the loss of her beloved father. May the entire family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President
        TWERSKY-Yitzhak. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of Rabbi Dr. Yitzhak Twersky, beloved father of Tzipporah Rosenblatt, father-in-law of our Rabbi, Jonathan Rosenblatt and grandfather of Yehuda, Tonya, Shmuel and Rivka Rosenblatt. May the entire Twersky/Rosenblatt families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. On behalf of the entire Riverdale Jewish Center community. Tobias B. Schapiro, President Ludwig Bravmann, Chairman of the Board
      