
        ROSS-Mildred Berger. Beloved wife of Matthew H. Ross. Mother of Jane Ross, Alan and Eleanor Ross. Loving grandmother and adoring great-grandmother. A life filled with good works; among other activities she was the first woman President of Central Synangogue, Founder and first Director of Central Synangogue Nursery School and Synagogue Seniors Group. Member of Council to the Dean of Hebrew Union College, member of the Board and the Executive Committee of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, and she served on the Board of the Scholarship and Welfare Fund of Hunter College. Elected to the Hunter College Alumni Hall of Fame. Services will be at Central Synagogue, Lexington Avenue and East 55th Street, Monday, 10:00AM. Interment for family members only. Memorial contributions may be made to The Scholarship and Welfare Fund of Hunter College, 695 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10021.
        ROSS-Mildred. Central Synagogue mourns our esteemed and honored past President Mildred Ross. She guided our congregation with dedication, dignity and love & she demonstrated her devotion to all of us throughout her decades of involvement. As both founder of our nursery school and co-chair of our Seniors Program she embodied a fundamental commitment to, and affection for, people all ages. Careful about both principle and detail Mildred exemplified the glory of a life lived very well. She was a rare person who ''plants a vineyard by her own labors...girds herself with strength, and performs her tasks with vigor.'' (Prov.) We extend our condolences to Matt and to her family. Mildred will be remembered with deep affection and respect. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President
        ROSS-Mildred Berger. The Board of Directors of the Scholarship & Welfare Fund of the Alumni Association of Hunter College mourns the death of Mildred Berger Ross, a director and former secretary of our Fund. Her generosity, wise counsel and dedication on behalf of the students will long be remembered. Our deep sympathy is extended to her family. Leah D. Greisman, President Scholarship & Welfare Fund of the Alumni Association of Hunter College
        ROSS-Mildred. The Parenting Center and The May Family Nursery School of Central Synagogue note with extreme sadness the passing of our beloved founder and supporter. Her wisdom, grace, warm smile and frequent visits have been an inspiration to us all. We grieve with her family and feel blessed by having had her in our lives. Susan Alpert, Director Audrey Zucker, N.S. Comm. Chair
        ROSS-Mildred. The Sisterhood of Central Synagogue is deeply saddened by the death of Mildred Ross, esteemed and beloved past President and Board Member. We extend sincere condolences to her family. The Sisterhood Board
      