
        ROSENFIELD-Richard E. M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center note with sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague, Richard E. Rosenfield M.D., Emeritus Professor of Medicine and Director Emeritus of Blood Bank and Clinical Microscopy. Associated with Mount Sinai for more than half a century, Dr. Rosenfield was a distinguished authority on blood types and blood transfusion, a pioneer in exchange transfusions on ''Rh babies'', and a prolific author on nearly every aspect of immunology, including seminal studies of monoclonal anitibodies and receptors. Admired as an accomplished clinician, insightful researcher and devoted teacher, Dr. Rosenfield was a recipient of the Jacobi Medallion, highest award of The Mount Sinai Alumni. We extend our condolences to his wife, Olive, to his children, Cantor Richard Rosenfield Jr., Dr. Allan Rosenfield and Phyllis Steele, to his grandchildren, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, M.B.B.Ch., Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Wendy Z. Goldstein, Director Alan L. Schiller, M.D. President, Medical Board
        ROSENFIELD-Richard E., M.D. It is with great sorrow that the Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our highly esteemed and beloved colleague. A recognized authority on human blood types and blood transfusion problems, Dr. Rosenfield was one on the first to perform exchange transfusion on ''Rh babies''. His work demonstrating the many variants of the blood histocompatibiity antigens has led to accurate diagnosis, therapy and prevention of erythroblastosis fetalis. In 1997, the Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Rosenfield to acknowledge his many years as one of the outstanding leaders of the Medical Center. Admired for his accomplishments as a clinician, his insights as a researcher and his devotion as a teacher, Dr. Rosenfield will be remembered as a warm and caring gentle man who fully understood the importance of amenities in life. Our sincere condolences are extended to his wife Olive, and his entire family. Wayne S. Fuchs, MD, President Maria Padilla, MD, Secretary
        ROSENFIELD-Richard E., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai hospital mourns the passing of Dr. Richard E. Rosenfield, Director Emeritus, Blood Bank and Clinical Microscopy, Attending Hematologist, and our esteemed colleague, friend, and mentor. He dedicated more than 30 years of service to directing the Blood Bank, making many contributions in the field of Immunohematology, particularly in the management of erythroblastosis fetalis by exchange transfusion in the newborn. We will remember him as a warm and compassionate individual, generous in sharing his encyclopedic knowledge and dedicated to clinical investigation. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Olive, his brother Alvin, his 6 grandchildren, and his entire family. Peter H. Rubin, M.D., President Lynda Mandell, M.D., Secretary Amy J. Weinstein, Admin.
      