
        MONTVILA-Halina, Dr. Dr. Halina Montvila of Manhattan who had been Vice President of Bradford Computer Systems and McDonald Douglass Corporation died on October 26, 1997 in Danbury, CT. She was 79. Dr. Halina Montvila was born in Panevezys, Lithuania and graduated from Vilnius University in 1938. She married George Montvila in 1939 and after the end of World War II immigrated to NY in 1949. She attended NYU and received a Master's Degree in mathematics in 1954. She received a Doctorate of Mathematics, Magna Cum Laude in 1959; specializing in numerical anaylsis and the application of computer systems in the solution of scientific endeavors. Her doctoral thesis involved the prediction of hurricanes at high altitudes. She was awarded the Founder's Day Award by NYU for outstanding and exemplary scholastic achievements. During her doctoral studies at NYU, she was one of the pioneering women to work with computer systems, notably the ENIAC series. She joined RCA Laboratories in 1958 and focused on the applications of computer systems for national defense efforts. She left RCA as a Chief Scientist in 1967. She joined Tracor Systems in 1967 and pursued the application of numerical anaylsis methods for various national defense efforts until 1969. She joined Bradford Computer Systems in 1969 and was elected Vice President in September 1973. While at Bradford she was involved in the application of computer systems for commercial and business applications. Principally, she oversaw activities to computerize NY Municipal and State Departments for Health and Human Services. Bradford Computer Systems was acquired by McDonald Douglass Corporation in 1981, where she continued as Vice President responsible for the application of computer systems for Puerto Rico's Health and Hospital Services. She retired in 1988. From 1988 to 1990 she continued as consultant for the McDonald Douglass Corporation. She is survived by her son Stephen of Brookfield, CT and grandchildren Darius and Andrius, of Cambridge, MA.
      