
        GOTTESMAN-Esther. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Esther Gottesman of New York and Palm Beach, a dedicated and fervent supporter of Israel and the Jewish community through her lifelong involvement with Hadassah and a multitude of Jewish educational institutions, including the Board of Jewish Education in New York and Palm Beach. She actively supported the creation of the Jewish state, and played a major role in acquiring the Dead Sea Scrolls in Jerusalem. Our deepest sympathies go to her beloved son, David Gottesman (Sandy), who has so effectively emulated his family's humanitarian concern through his extraordinary philanthropy, dedication and leadership on behalf of UJA-Federation, Yeshiva University and many communal organizations nationwide. We extend our sincerest condolences to the entire Gottesman family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        GOTTESMAN-Esther (Garfunkel), on October 1, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin, adored mother of Milton, David and the late Alice, and loving mother-inlaw of Ruth. Devoted sister to Florence, Harold, Julian and the late Elsie and Mildred. Wonderful grandmother of Robert and Trudy, Alice and Larry, William and Debra. Loving great-grandmother of Benjamin, Sarah, Alan, Clara and Zachary. Funeral service is at 12 Noon, Sunday, October 5, at Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, 125 East 85th Street, NYC. Family requests no flowers be sent.
        GOTTESMAN-Esther G. The Yeshiva University community is profoundly grieved by the passing of a distinguished humanitarian, communal leader, and lifelong Zionist who was matriarch of a YU ''first family'' inextricably linked to the development of our institution. A dedicated supporter of Jewish education, she and her late husband Benjamin Gottesman, a YU Trustee 1927-79, were Benefactors who endowed a wide range of programs including the Mendel Gottesman Library at the Main Campus, a chair in library sciences there, and the Benjamin Gottesman Presidential Lecture Series. In recognition of her more than sixty years of remarkable service to the community, the University last year conferred upon her an honorary doctor of humane letters degree, noting that her leadership ''will stand as a beacon and standard for future generations.'' Her son David S. Gottesman, now YU Board of Trustees chairman, continues the family legacy begun by his grandfather Mendel Gottesman. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her children David (and Ruth) Gottesman and Milton Gottesman; brothers Harold Garfunkel and Julian Garfunkel; sister Florence Roswell; grandchildren, greatgrandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem, and may her influence continue to inspire and bless all generations of her distinguished family. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Burton P. Resnick Chairman, Executive Committee Board of Trustees
        GOTTESMAN-Esther. Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the passing of Esther Gottesman, a great Hadassah leader and leader of the Jewish people. A member of the National Board of Hadassah for 64 years, serving as a National Vice President and National Treasurer, as well as chair of various projects, Esther was renowned for her devotion to Jewish education, and for the training of young people in their commitment to Judaism and Zionism. She was responsible for the publication of ''Great Ages and Ideas of the Jewish People'', and devoted her life to teaching the next generation about their past while preparing them for future leadership. A lifelong Zionist, she was an early proponent of vocational education in Israel and guided the formation of the Hadassah College of Technology in Jerusalem, and continued to support it throughout her life. Beloved by all who knew her, Esther's wisdom, her elegance, dignity and grace, and her passion for Judaism, the Jewish people and Israel have made her a true woman of valor and an example for all who follow after her. We will miss her vision, her warmth and kindness, her passion. May her memory be for a blessing, and may her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marlene E. Post, Natl President Beth Wohlgelernter, Natl Exec Dir
        GOTTESMAN-Esther. With profound sorrow, the Directors and staff of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York record the death of our long time member of our Board of Directors, Mrs. Esther Gottesman. The Gottesman family has been a strong supporter of the work of BJE in strengthening Jewish education. Mrs. Gottesman was especially instrumental in making possible our Creative Teaching Award and other special programs sponsored by BJE. We extend our condolences to her sons David and Milton and her entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Philip Schatten, President David Mann, Exec Vice President Stephen A. Kramer, Chairman of the Board
        GOTTESMAN-Esther (Garfunkel). The Boards of Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mt. Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of Esther Garfunkel Gottesman, beloved mother of our esteemed Trustee, David S. Gottesman. We extend our sincere condolences to David S. Gottesman and the entire Gottesman and Garfunkel families on their profound loss. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Nathan G. Kase, M.D., Dean Barry R. Freedman, Exec VP Wendy Z. Goldstein, Director
        GOTTESMAN-Esther. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved mother of Milton and David S. Gottesman. Her passing comes as we begin construction of the Benjamin and Esther Gottesman Center which will house our new middle school. This school, among her many charitable and communal efforts, will be a lasting memorial to an extraordinary Jewish woman. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman of the Board of Trustees
        GOTTESMAN-Esther. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, its Sisterhood and Men's Club mourn the passing of their senior member, mother of Milton and David Gottesman and extend heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal Fred Distenfeld, President
      