
        DEFLIESE-Philip. A leader in the accounting profession who served in the 1960's and 1970's as the Chairman and CEO of Coopers & Lybrand, the world-wide accounting, auditing and consulting firm, as Chairman of the American of the American Institute of Public Accountants (AICPA) & as Chairman of the AICPA's Accounting Principles Board, the rule-making body that preceded today's Financial Accounting Standards Board, died in New York, Monday, after a brief illness. He was 82. Mr. Defliese combined his deep interest for teaching with a commanding knowledge of accountancy and auditing throughout his career. He co-authored with other partners from Coopers & Lybrand several editions of ''Montgomery's Auditing'', an authoritative text and reference on accountancy and audit practice. Following his retirement from Coopers & Lybrand in 1977, he was Professor at Columbia University's Graduate School of Business until 1986 and served as a founding member of the Government Accounting Standards Board from 1984 to 1990. Mr. Defliese also served on a number of corporate boards, most notably the board of ARAMARK Corporation. Born in Queens, N.Y. to a family of modest means, he earned a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration at city College of NY at night while working full time. Following service as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy in World War II, he married the former Pauline Harnisch, his beloved wife of fifty years, who died earlier this year. Together they raised their family in Garden City, N.Y., and were parishoners at St. Anne's Roman Catholic Church. Mr. Defliese is survived by his sons Philip Jr. of Mercer Island, WA., and Robert of Garden City, NY, as well as his daughter Jeanne of New York, NY and seven grandchildren. Friends may call at Thomas F. Dalton Funeral Home, 29 Atlantic Avenue, Floral Park, New York from 7 to 10 P.M. on Thursday, and from 2 until 5 P.M. on Friday. A mass of Christian burial will be held 9:15AM, Saturday, November 1, 1997, St. Anne's Catholic Church in Garden City, New York. Burial will follow in St. John's Cemetery in Queens, NY. Memorial donations may be sent to the Baruch College Fund, 17 Lexington Ave., Box D901, New York, N.Y. 10010.
        DEFLIESE-Philip L. The President of Baruch College and the Trustees of The Baruch College Fund mark with deep sorrow the death of Philip L. Defliese. Chairman and Managing Partner of Coopers & Lybrand from 1968 to 1976, Mr. Defliese was a highly esteemed member of the accounting profession who served the firm he led for thirty-five years. A distinguished teacher at Columbia University, he is remembered at Baruch as a founding trustee of The Baruch College Fund and a man who cared deeply about his alma mater. He remained always a generous supporter of students and a tireless promoter of their welfare. We extend our sincere sympathy to his family and many friends. Matthew Goldstein, President Baruch College Bernard Richards, President The Baruch College Fund
      