
        O'BRIEN-Robert H. Mr. Robert H. O'Brien, retired motion picture industry executive who when President of Metro Goldwyn Mayer shepherded the filming of ''Dr. Zhivago'' and ''2001 A Space Odyssey'', died October 6th in Seattle, WA. He had lived in Washington State since retiring from the MGM executive position. He was born in Helena, Montana, on September 15, 1904 to Montana pioneers, Joseph G. and Margaret V. O'Brien. As a child he lived with his family in the now ghost mining towns of Elkhorn and Marysville MT. His family moved to Butte, MT. in 1912. There he starred in football and graduated from Butte High School in 1920. He attended Beloit College where he played football under Tommy Mills. In 1925, he returned to Butte and worked for several years in the Geology & Sampling Department of the Anaconda Copper Mining Company before he returned to school. He graduated from the Law School of the University of Chicago in 1933. That same year he began his distinguished career with the Legal Department of the Public Works Administration. He joined the newly formed Securities and Exchange Commission in 1934 and there advanced very rapidly. He was appointed Commissioner of its utliity division by President Frankin D. Roosevelt on February 3, 1942. This post he held until his resignation from the SEC, on December 29, 1944. He became associated with the entertainment and film industry in January 1945, joining Paramount Pictures as assistant to the President. After the division of the Paramount Pictures Corporation & its acquistion of the American Broadcasting Company, he was appointed Executive Vice President of ABC-Paramount Theatres. In 1957 he left ABC-PT to become Treasurer and Vice President of Metro Goldwyn Mayer. He was appointed President of MGM in January 1963. Other films brought to the screen during his tenure at MGM included ''The Dirty Dozen'', ''Far From The Madding Crowd'' and ''Ryan's Daughter''. He retired from MGM in 1970. He served as a member of the Advisory Council of the Business School of the University of Notre Dame from 1948 to 1970. He was a member of the Board of Trustees of Beloit College for many years. Early in his career he was invited into membership into The Knights of Malta, a Roman Catholic Lay organization. In 1964, the University of Montana recognized him as an outstanding Montanan and presented him with its Order of the Grizzly Award that year. His contributions to the film industry were recognized with his being named Recipient of the 1965 Motion Picture Pioneer of the Year Award. In 1966, he was selected as the recipient of The Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews for distinguished service in the field of human relations. He served on numerous other Boards and received many other awards during his career. He is survived by his devoted and beloved wife, Minna in Seattle, WA. Other living relations include one nephew, Dr. D.J. McGonigle of Seattle, WA; six grand nieces and grand nephews, Dr. Mary A. McGonigle Wolak of Seattle, Dr. Kathryn F. McGonigle Rawlings of Santa Monica, CA.; D.J. McGonigle, III of Spokane, WA.; Michael E. McGonigle of Seattle; Anne T. McGonigle Witter of Seattle and Patricia J. Tokheim of Menlo Park, CA. He has three great grand nieces and one great grand nephew. He was preceded in death by his wife, Ellen O'Brien and their child Jo Ellen. A sister, Alice K. McGonigle, two brothers, Dr. J. Grant O'Brien and James Harold O'Brien. His life will be honored at a requiem mass and burial in Butte, Montana. He was greatly loved by his family and he will be deeply missed.
      