
        REES-Mina S. October 25, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Leopold Brahdy. Devoted aunt of Dorothy Halpin. Cherished great-aunt of Suzanne Schmitz, James, Kevin and Paul Halpin. A memorial service will be held at a later date at the City University of NY Graduate School.
        REES-Mina S. The City University of New York deeply mourns the passing of Dr. Mina S. Rees, President Emerita and Founding President of the CUNY Graduate School and University Center. Internationally renowned mathematician, nationally prominent educator who transformed high school through graduate math and science education; first woman President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science; Presidential appointee to the National Science Foundation and former Deputy Director of the Division of Science and Mathematics of the U.S. Office of Naval Research. A 1923 Hunter College alumna, she was a distinguished member of the CUNY faculty and administration for 35 years, interupted only by her enormous contribution to the war effort during WWII when she mobilized resources of modern mathematics and contributed to the development and government support of jet rocket propulsion, high speed computers and hydrofoil craft. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Anne A. Paolucci, Chairwoman, Board of Trustees Laurence F. Mucciolo, Deputy Chancellor
        REES-Mina S. The faculty, staff, and students of The Graduate School and University Center of The City University of New York mourn the passing of our founding President and Presient Emerita, Dr. Mina S. Rees. She nurtured the CUNY Graduate School through its formative years and established the base for its development as an eminent institution for doctoral studies. A pioneering woman mathematician, she lent her expertise to federal research during and after WW II, provided the foresight that resulted in US government funding for the development of the earliest computers, helped to shape national policy in basic siciences and graduate education, and was the first woman to serve as President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Although she will be deeply missed, her influence and accomplishments will continue to resonate in scientific and public realms. Burial is private; a memorial serivce for Dr. Rees will be held at the CUNY Graduate School on a date to be announced. Frances Degen Horowitz President
        REES-Mina S. The faculty and staff of the Mina Rees Library, CUNY Graduate School, mourn the passing of Dr. Mina Rees, first President of The Graduate School.
      