
        HANDLER-Miriam A. Age 82. Died on October 16, 1997 after a long illness. Cherished wife of Professor Milton Handler; devoted mother of Carole E. Handler; adored grandmother of Lisi and Lani Schoenbach; beloved sister of Milton Adler & Avivah Benamy; beloved aunt of Dr. Daniel Adler, Denise Jaffe, Elan Benamy; dedicated grand-aunt of numerous nieces and nephews. Her rare beauty was matched by her charm and dedicated service to the various philanthropies in which she played a leading role. The family will receive friends at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, on Saturday, October 18th between the hours of 7 and 9 PM. Funeral services will be held at the Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th Street & Madison Ave, Sunday, October 19th at 10:30 AM. Burial private.
        HANDLER-Miriam. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with deep sadness the passing of our beloved friend and honorary trustee, Miriam Handler, a member of the Board since 1982. As trustee chairperson of the Volunteer and Social Services Committee, and as a member of the Volunteer Service Board, Mrs. Handler provided invaluable leadership in furthering the important work of volunteers and in developing new programs that address the needs of our patients. Mrs. Handler, along with her devoted husband, generously named the Milton and Miriam Handler Waiting Room at the Beth Israel North Division Stroke Center. She will be greatly missed by all whose lives were touched by her compassion, generosity and concern. To her husband, Milton, stepdaughter Carole Enid, and all who loved her, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Boards of Trustees, Greater Metropolitan Health Systems and Beth Israel Medical Center Robert G. Newman, M.D., President, GMHS Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President, BIMC Jerome S. Breslaw, M.D., President, Medical Board
        HANDLER-Miriam. It is with deep sadness that The Volunteer Service Board and The Jeanette and Morris Kessel Department of Volunteer Services of Beth Israel Medical Center note the passing of our dear friend and devoted Board Member, Miriam Handler. Her long-time support and enthusiasm for volunteerism will remain forever her legacy at this institution. To her husband Milton, her step-daughter Carole Enid, and her family and friends, our deepest sympathies. Gladys Messenger, President, Volunteer Service Board Terry Williams, Director, Volunteer Services
        HANDLER-Miriam. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum are deeply saddened by the loss of Miriam Handler, Life Trustee and former Vice-Chair. Miriam dedicated her heart and soul to the Museum for well over twenty years. Her leadership contributed to the growth and success of the Museum's collection, exhibitions, gift shop, and gala fund-raising events. Great sympathy is extended to her dear husband Milton Handler and to their entire family. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
        HANDLER-Miriam. We mourn with sadness the passing of Miriam Handler, wife of Professor Milton Handler. Miriam's deeds, accomplished with dignity and modesty, were a standard to be achieved. Stanley and Roberta Bogen
        HANDLER-Miriam. The Board of Directors, the shareholders of 625 Park Avenue and Wallack Management wish to extend their deepest sympathy to Professor Milton Handler and his family.
      