
        ROSS-Daniel G. On September 29, 1997. Beloved husband of Grace Jarcho Ross. Loving father of Ann & Michael Loeb, James & Laura Ross, Lynn & Edward Rosenfeld. Adored grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of 6. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Tuesday 7-9 PM with service Wednesday 9:45 AM. Please omit flowers.
        ROSS-Daniel G. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University is profoundly saddened by the passing of our esteemed friend and member of our Founders Circle and Board of Directors. We will always be grateful for his inspired leadership and commitment to our University. A Tel Aviv University Honorary Doctorate recipient, he was a member of the University's Board of Governors and a former Deputy Chairman of the Board. A true humanitarian, his steadfast support of Post-Doctoral Scholarships at Tel Aviv University was directly responsible for enabling generations of Israelis to further their education. We will miss this gentle man of great compassion and kindness. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Grace, children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University Bernard Rapoport Chairman, Board of Directors Melvin S. Taub Chairman Emeritus Robert J. Topchik, President Mrs. George S. Wise Jules Love, Executive VP
        ROSS-Daniel G. The Board of Directors and Officers of Tootsie Roll Industries, Inc., regrets the passing of our longtime associate, Daniel G. Ross. Dan was an attorney for the company for many years and a Director from 1958 through 1994. We will miss his wise counsel and we extend our deepest condolences to his wife Grace and his family.
        ROSS-Daniel G. The Board and staff of Settlement Housing Fund extend sympathy to the family of Daniel G. Ross, tireless lawyer, civic leader and father of Ann R. Loeb, SHF Assistant Director. Charles S. Warren Carol Lamberg Susan Cole
        ROSS-Daniel. The Reconstructionist Rabbinical College community express their sorrow on the death of Honorary Board member Daniel Ross, whose generous leadership was a vital part of the founding of the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College.
      