
        FISHEL-Carlton Mark, age 88, suddenly on October 6th, 1997. Former Chairman of the Board of Trifari, Krussman & Fishel, Inc. until he retired in 1975. A graduate of Phillips Andover ('26) and Yale ('30), he was a founding member and past President of the Advisory Board of St. Vincent's Hospital, Harrison, New York on which he has served for over 40 years. He was a Knight of Malta and a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. For many years he served as a member of the Cardinal's Committee of the Laity, Catholic Charities, the Board of the United Hospital's Fund of New York and was affiliated with numerous other religious associations of the Archdiocese of New York. He was also an active parishioner of Resurrection Church in Rye. He was a past President of the ''24 Karat'' Club of New York (a fine jewelers' association). As a member of the Yale Club of New York City and the Apawamis Club of Rye, he enjoyed golf until the time of his death. He was predeceased by his beloved wife of 61 years, Helen M. Fishel, and is survived by two daughters, Penelope F. McDermott of Rye and Kathleen F. McCullough of Chatham, MA, son-inlaw William H. McCullough, 7 grandchildren and 9 adored greatgrandchildren. Visiting hours will be at the William H. Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Boston Post Road, Rye, New York, Thursday, October 9th, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass will be held at 10 AM Friday, October 10th at the Church of the Resurrection in Rye. Interment immediately following at Gate of Heaven Cemetery, Valhalla, New York. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to St. Vincent's Hospital of Westchester, 275 North Street, Harrison, New York 10528 or United Hospital Medical Center, 406 Boston Post Road, Port Chester, New York 10573.
        FISHEL-Carlton. The board of directors, other volunteers, and staff of the United Hospital Fund mourn the loss of an esteemed board member and supporter of New York's hospitals. During his sixteen years on the board, he shared his counsel and his expertise, serving as chairman of the hospital membership committee, and as a member of the distributing and budget, audit, and operations committees. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Howard Smith, Chairman James R. Tallon, Jr., President
      