
        GOLDSTEIN-Dr. Menek, died suddenly on October 18, 1997. Professor at NYU Medical Center. Beloved nephew of Frania Gitterman, Maria Rosenbloom, and Frieda Hirsch. Loving cousin of Dr. Alex Gitterman and Dr. Hana Savir and their families. Devoted to dear friend Dr. Mira Dziatelowski and her family. Funeral on Tuesday at 1:15 PM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and 76th Street.
        GOLDSTEIN-Menek, M.D. Ph.D. The trustees, faculty and staff of New York University Medical Center deeply mourn the loss of Dr. Menek Goldstein, age 73, Professor of Neurochemistry, Physiology and Neuroscience at NYU School of Medicine. Dr. Goldstein was dedicated to his research on brain chemistry which led to the understanding of movement disorders such as Parkinson's Disease. He died suddenly of unknown causes last Saturday at his computer while writing a grant proposal to continue his research. One of the leading authorities on the chemistry of neurotransmittors, Dr. Goldstein discovered how L-dopa, a chemical that is deficient in Parkinson's Disease is synthesized. He collaborated with other distinguished colleagues around the world, including scientists at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, who awarded him an honorary M.D. degree. Dr. Goldstein wrote innumerable scientific articles and chapters and textbooks, and rec eived research grants from the National Institutes of Health, and the National Parkinson's Foundation. We remember Dr. Goldstein as a meticulous investigator and a man with a great warmth and sense of humor. Born in Poland in 1924, Dr. Goldstein survived the Holocaust by hiding from the Nazis for the last two years of World War II, sheltered by a catholic family. Most of his own family was killed in the Holocaust. In 1955, Dr. Goldstein earned his Ph.D. degree from the University of Berne. Switzerland. He began working for NYU in 1957 as a biochemist, and worked his way up the ranks, becoming a full Professor in 1969. Dr. Goldstein is survived by his aunts, Frania Gitterman, Frieda Hirsch and Maria Rosenbloom and cousins Dr. Alex Gitterman and Hana Savir. The family requests that gifts be sent in lieu of flowers to the National Parkinson's Foundation, or a charity of the giver's choice. Services will be held at the Riverside Memorial Chapel on Tuesday, at 1:15PM. We express our deep sympathy to Dr. Goldstein's family. E. John Rosenwald, Jr., Chairman, Board of Trustees, NYU Medical Center Noel Cohen, M.D., Interim Provost and Dean, NYU Medical Center/ School of Medicine Robert Cancro, M.D., Professor and Chairman Department of Psychiatry, NYU School of Medicine G. Nigel Godson, Ph.D., Professor and Chairman Department of Biochemistry NYU School of Medicine Rodolfo R. Llinas, M.D. Ph.D., Thomas and Suzanne Murphy Professor of Neuroscience Chairman, Department of Physiology and Biophysics, NYU School of Medicine
      