
        JACOBY-Dr. John III. The Board of Trustees, Sisters of Charity, Medical Staff, Hospital Auxiliary, and Administration of St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. Born on August 17, 1957, ''Jack'' was an attending physician with the Cystic Fibrosis Center at St. Vincent's Hospital until the time of his death. The second of four children with Cystic Fibrosis, Jack's achievements were exceptional by any standard. He graduated from Duke University and received his M.D. at Northwestern University. As a CF physician at St. Vincent's, he served as both care giver and proponent of C.F. research. He will long be remembered for his special ability to empathise and encourage patients with Cystic Fibrosis to set, achieve, and exceed their goals. It is with great sadness that we extend our prayers and condolences to his family. Thomas A. Coleman, Chairman of the Board Karl P. Adler, M.D., President, Chief Exec. Officer
        JACOBY-John Z. III, M.D. It is with profound regret and sadness that we acknowledge the passing of our friend and colleague. During our association with him at the Cystic Fibrosis Center at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York, he distinguished himself not only as a gifted physician but also as an inspirational role model and trusted friend of individuals with cystic fibrosis. He gave generously of his time and energy, always exhibiting humility as well as uncompromisingly high professional standards and integrity. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his devoted family. Carolyn R. Denning, M.D. Pureza Flor Gaerlan, M.D. Peter R. Scaglione, M.D.
        JACOBY-John Z. III. The Department of Pediatrics at St. Vincent's Hospital is saddened by the death of our esteemed colleague and friend. Jack touched the lives of countless cystic fibrosis patients, families and caregivers with his warmth, compassion, empathy and dedication. His tireless efforts on behalf of the C.F. community will serve as his legacy and an inspiration to us all. Jayne D. Rivas, M.D., Chairperson
        JACOBY-John III, M.D. The Staff of the Cystic Fibrosis Center at St. Vincent's Hospital deeply mourns the loss of their dear friend and colleague. We are grateful to have had the opportunity to know him and share his extraordinary life. Our heartfelt condolences to his family.
      