
        NELSON-Dr. William James. On October 25, 1997 at his home in Damariscotta, Maine. Born in Brooklyn, NY, December 2, 1922, the son of William S. and Edna (McKenna) Nelson. Graduate of Poly Prep Secondary School, class of 1941, earned his B.A. Degree from Williams College, and his medical degree from New York Medical College. He served as a medical officer in the US Naval Reserve Medical Corps during WW II aboard the USS Frank Knox in the Pacific. Following his discharge, he began his surgical & urological residency at Bellevue Hospital and Roosevelt Hospital. In 1953, he entered private practice in New York City and became Director of Urology at Roosevelt Hospital, where he remained until relocating to Maine in 1988. While in Maine, he was on staff at Miles Memorial Hospital, Damariscotta, St. Andrew's Hospital, Boothbay Harbor and Maine Medical Center, Portland. He retired in 1991. He was active in several medical organizations, including the American Urological Association, where he served in many capacities, including President of the New York Section in 1978-79. He was President of the New York State Medical Society, President of the Roosevelt Hospital Alumni Assoc., and for many years taught at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was a founding member of the New York State Urological Society, and was a member of the Societe Internationale D'Urologie, United States Section. In Maine, he was a member of the Maine Medical Association. He leaves his wife Olive (Daley) Nelson, of Damariscotta, six children, Peter M. Nelson of Woodbridge, VA., Nora N. Tiffany of Winchester, MA., Michael J.T. Nelson of Orgeval, France, Andrew W. Nelson of Darien, CT, Sarah N. Dillaway of Natick, MA, William J. Nelson, Jr. of Darien, CT, and 13 grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to St. Jude's Childrens Hospital, P.O. Box 1818, Memphis, TN 38101.
        NELSON-William J., M.D. The members of the New York Section, AUA, mourn the passing of its esteemed colleague and Past President William J. Nelson, M.D. Dr. Nelson was a former Director of the Urology Service at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, and served his patients and his urological colleagues well. Our thoughts are with his beloved family to whom we extend our sincere sympathy. Robert H. Stackpole, M.D. President, NY Section, AUA
      