
        GILBERT-Paul L. M.D. On November 27, 1997. Beloved husband of Harriet. Father of Laura Gilbert-Merrill, David Gilbert and Daniel Gilbert. Cherished grandfather of Jena and Aidan Paul GilbertMerrill, and Michael and Zachary Gilbert. Memorial service Sunday 2 P.M., Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.
        GILBERT-Paul L., M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and distinguished colleague Paul L. Gilbert, MD, Associate Professor of Medicine, and Chief of the Division of General Medicine, who was associated with Mount Sinai for more than four decades. A graduate of Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, Dr. Gilbert joined Mount Sinai as a resident in 1954. He went on to do pioneering research in thyroid diseases and became highly regarded for his unique expertise, serving as Chief of the Thyroid Service of the Division of Endocrinology. An early proponent of the importance of the care of the patient as a whole, he was instrumental in the formation of an exceptional division dedicated to general internal medicine. As beloved for his personal warmth as he was respected for his medical knowledge, Dr. Gilbert was admired for his devotion to his patients and for his abilities as a teacher. He will be remembered most fondly for his compassion and dedication, and he will be sorely missed. We extend our sincerest sympathy to his wife, our esteemed Mount Sinai colleague, Dr. Harriet S. Gilbert, to their children Laura, David and Daniel, to their grandchildren and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Wendy Z. Goldstein, Director Alan L. Schiller, MD, President, Medical Board
        GILBERT-Paul, M.D. The Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the sudden loss of our beloved and distinguished colleague, Dr. Paul Gilbert, Chief of the Division of General Internal Medicine. Dr. Gilbert began his career at Mount Sinai as a resident in 1954 and went on to do advanced training and research in thyroid disease with the legendary Drs. Berson and Yalow. He recognized the central importance of general internal medicine long before others and built an outstanding Division of physicians devoted to caring for the whole patient. He also initiated one of the first Women's Health Fellowships in the U.S. at Mount Sinai. He himself was the consummate internist, absolutely devoted to his innumerable patients and utterly selfless in providing their care. We will all miss his warmth, his smile, his humor, his sense of reality and most particularly, the lollipops he gave to kids of all ages when he provided his yearly flu shots to the staff. We extend our most sincere condolences to his wife, Dr. Harriet Gilbert, who is also a distinguished member of our faculty, their children Laura, David and Daniel and the entire Gilbert family. Barry S. Coller, Chairman Samuel Bronfman, Department of Medicine Mount Sinai Medical Center
        GILBERT-Paul L., M.D. The Community Advisory Board of The Mount Sinai Medical Center is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our cherished friend and colleague Paul L. Gilbert, MD. A member and advisor to our board for so many years, Dr. Gilbert was admired for his insight and beloved for his wit and good humor. We offer our deepest condolences to his wife, Dr. Harriet S. Gilbert, to their children, Laura, David and Daniel, to their grandchildren and to the entire family. Gary Rosenberg, PhD, Chairman
        GILBERT-Paul L., M.D. He was my physician and friend for over 25 years. He was a caring and compassionate doctor, always there when I needed him. He upheld the Hippocratic Oath to the nth degree. He shall be missed by me and my family. I extend my condolences to his wife and family. Jim Robbins
      