
        DALY-James E. (''Jed''), 56, financial specialist. James E. Daly, known as ''Jed,'' died of heart failure at New York Hospital Nov. 15. Mr. Daly suffered from end-stage renal disease since 1989 and received hemodialysis at home from his wife. An unsuccessful transplant in 1995 left him physically disabled and curtailed his ability to work. Born in Attleboro, Massachusetts, Mr. Daly spoke frequently of his ''rebirths.'' The first occurred when he left Armstrong Cork to enter Harvard Business School. After graduation in 1971, he worked in bond sales for First Boston, where he was instrumental in creating a marketing department. In the 1980's, at Salomon Bros., he worked in Canadian fixed-income securities sales and in new-business, real-estate finance. Mr. Daly was ''reborn'' again when survival of kidney failure spurred him to apply a life-long interest in finance to estate planning and insurance sales. Employed by MetLife, he was appointed manager of his own branch in 1994 due to his pioneering efforts to use The Bloomberg business computer as an insurance channel of distribution. He spoke of establishing an ''interactive, multi-media, office-shopping network.'' Mr. Daly was a board member of Ursinus College in Pennsylvania. He was a member of the American Kidney Association and served as a fund-raiser for The New York Police and Fire Widows' and Children's Fund. He was a long-time member of the Calyx Club of Dallas, Texas; the Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; the Harvard Business School Club of Greater New York; and the Larchmont Yacht Club. He is survived by his wife, Margarethe, and their two children, Peter, age 12, and Karen, age 16, all of Larchmont, New York, and his sister, Kathryn Daly Leahy of Hanover, Massachusetts. A memorial service wil be held at 10 A.M., on November 29 at Sts. John and Paul Church in Larchmont. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, donations be made to the Rogosin Institute (505 East 70 Street, New York, NY 10021).
      