
        PEARCE-Henry, 89 years young. Loving Husband of Sally; Adoring Father of Dr. David and Linda and Dr. Norton Rosensweig; Proud Grandfather of Jonathan and Laurie Rosensweig and Julie and Paul Schwartz. Founding partner of Pearce Mayer & Greer in 1928, devoted his career to Real Estate Philanthropy and his Family. Memorial services will be held at the ''Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, on Monday, November 3rd, at 11:15 A.M.
        PEARCE-Henry. The Board, staff and members of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged (JASA) note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved mentor, friend, colleague and supporter, Henry Pearce. He joined the JASA Board shortly after the organization's founding and was instrumental in guiding its growth. As Co-Chair of the Executive and Nominating Committees, he had a profound impact on the evolution of JASA's policies and programs. He gave his love generously and was loved by all who were privledged to know him and share in his dreams. He was persistent, caring, kind, funny and totally committed to JASA. He personally recruited most of the members of the Board of Trustees, for when Henry asked you to do something it was difficult, if not impossible, to say no. Through programs he helped initiate, his comitment to older volunteers, his inspiring pep talks to his colleagues and friends, his philanthropy, but most of all through his personal example, he helped us all to better recognize the capacity of older persons to continue to grow, create and contribute to society's well being. With his brilliant mind, passionate heart, boundless energy, and love of life he continually pushed us to do more and to do better. He faced his illness with dignity and courage, and remained active and vital until the end. We will miss him. But we shall be guided by his legacy as we seek to perpetuate his vision of service to older persons. Our hearts go out to his beloved and devoted bride of more than 60 years, Sally, and to his children and grandchildren. Marilyn F. Friedman, President Steven M. Jacobson, Chairman David J. Stern, Exec VP
        PEARCE-Henry. The officers, leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Henry Pearce, a dear friend and dedicated supporter of our mission around the world. Together with his beloved wife, Sally, a former officer of UJA-Federation and longtime board member and community leader, the impact of their extraordinary philanthropic activities will continue to be enormous. Henry was involved for many years in our Real Estate Divison and was a founding trustee of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged (JASA), a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation. He and Sally established a generous fund to promote volunteerism within the Jewish commuinty. They also funded a kindergarten in Israel which bears their name and which they loved to visit together. To Sally, to their children Linda and Norton Rosensweig and David Pearce, to their grandchildren J.P., Julie and Lori, to his brother Leon, and to the the nieces, nephews and friends who loved and admired him, we send our deepest sympathies. Judith Stern Peck Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer President Charles Borrok Chair, Real Estate Division Stephen D. Solender Executive V.P.
        PEARCE-Henry. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with great sorrow the death of Henry Pearce, husband of Sally Pearce, our devoted trustee. Henry was an inspired leader of the Jewish community and supported Sally's important work with our agency, including leadership of the Sally Pearce Passover Outreach Program. We extend our affection and heartfelt sympathy to Sally and her family. Seymour R. Askin, Jr, Pres. Joseph S. Kaplan, Pres-Elect Fredric W. Yerman, Chairman of the Board Gladys Wiesenthal, Chair, Volunteer Services Divisional Committee Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive Vice President
        PEARCE-Henry. Older brother of our late founding partner Saul Pearce. Henry was more than a client, friend and inspiration. Everything he touched he infused with energy, wit and integrity. We share with Sally and his wonderful family a sense of tremendous loss. Robinson Silverman Pearce Aronsohn & Berman, LLP
        PEARCE-Henry. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Sally, and his family. Murray B. Hirsch, President Howard Ecker, Secretary
        PEARCE-Henry. A dynamo in the real estate industry, a good friend whose advice I cherished. I will miss him. My condolences to Sally and the family. Benjamin Duhl
      