
        WOLKIND-Sylvia. A woman who loved her family above all else, loved life and would make a detour anytime, anywhere to play golf at some wonderful course she had not yet seen (and there weren't too many of those) had a sudden, tragic end. She was truly a woman of valor. Those fortunate to know her will never forget her. A great loss to her husband of fifty-nine years Murray, son Richard, daughter Dale, daughter-inlaw Marta, son-in-law Stephen and grandson Bryan. Goodbye Sylvia. Services will be held Thursday, November 20th, 12:30PM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76 St at Amsterdam Avenue, N.Y.
        WOLKIND-Sylvia W. The officers and staff of UJA-Federation of New York deeply mourn the passing of Sylvia Weitzer Wolkind, mother of Dale Wolkind Kramer, and mother-in-law of Stephen A. Kramer. Dale Kramer is a member of the UJA-Federation board of directors, and is a former chair of its Metropolitan Campaign. Stephen A. Kramer is a long-time and outstanding supporter of UJAFederation who also served as president of the Board of Jewish Education, as well as board chair of the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds. Both are beneficiaries of UJA-Federation. We extend our profound condolences to her husband, Murray, her four children, Dale, Stephen, Richard, and Marta, and grandson Bryan, and their entire family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        WOLKIND-Sylvia. The Gesher Foundation records with deep sorrow the tragic and untimely passing of the beloved mother of our dear friend, Dale Kramer. Our sincere condolences to the entire bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Daniel Tropper, President Marcel Lindenbaum, Chairman Hillel Wiener, Exec. V.P.
        WOLKIND-Sylvia Weitzer. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to Dale and Stephen Kramer on the loss of Dale's beloved mother. Our sympathies to the entire bereaved family. Richard Thaler, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President
        WOLKIND-Sylvia. The Board of Governors and members of Montammy Golf Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved member and extend their heartfelt sympathy to Murray and the entire family. Stanley Plonchak, President
      