
        GENEEN-Harold S. November 21, 1997. Beloved husband of June. He is survived by his five nephews and their families. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Tuesday, November 25, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. A private interment will folllow. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to Bio Physics and Bio Mechanics Research Fund, Cornell University Center, c/o Dr. Edmund Herrold, 525 E 68th St., New York, NY 10021.
        GENEEN-Harold S. New York University records with profound sorrow the passing of Harold S. Geneen, a titan in the world of business, a proud NYU alumnus and a devoted NYU Life Trustee. Mr. Geneen came to America at age four. By age sixteen, he was studying accounting and finance at NYU. His subsequent rise to Chief Executive of ITT, which he built into one of the world's great global conglomerates, is the classic American success story. His vision, leadership, and commitment will be missed. Laurence A. Tisch Chairman of the Board L. Jay Oliva President
        GENEEN-Harold S. On behalf of the Chairman, The Board of Directors and all the employees, past and present, of ITT Corporation, we mourn the passing of our esteemed Chairman Emeritus. During his 20-year career at ITT, he created one of the world's most respected, admired and successful corporations. His management practice and style have been widely imitated. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, June, his two sister-in-laws, his five nephews and their families.
        GENEEN-Harold S. The management and employees of General Bearing Corporation mourn the loss of Harold Geneen, an extraordinary man. Mr. Geneen was a good friend of our company as well as a director and advisor. The loss of his special brand of wisdom and guidance will be difficult to bear. His imprint of ideas and concepts on our organization will be everlasting. The Management and Employees of General Bearing Corp
        GENEEN-Harold S. On November 21, 1997. In memory of a close friend and partner who will be missed and remembered forever. Bonny and Gerald Newman
      