
        ALBRECHT-Arthur J. A recognized leader in developing marketing strategies and advertising for nationally-known consumer products, died from Lymphoma on October 14, 1997 at Boca Raton Community Hospital in FL. He was 66. Mr. Albrecht's reputation was such that when he authored a marketing plan for a new product, the plan was virtually certain of support from venture capitalists. In the early '90s, as a consultant to the Himmel Corporation, he originated the advertising that fueled the dramatic comeback of two ''forgotten brands,'' Gold Bond Medicated Powder and Ovaltine. Following his graduation as BA cum laude from FL State University in 1957, Mr. Albrecht began his career in 1958 with the Vick Chemical Company. He started as a salesman, was promoted to promotion manager and later assumed management of the Vick subsidiary in Canada. Mr. Albrecht then moved on to senior marketing/advertising positions at Whitehall Labs, Revlon, J.B. Williams and the William Esty Advertising Company. From 1981 to 1991 he was President of his own advertising agency, Petersen & Albrecht, responsible mainly for the advertising of Bausch & Lomb contact lenses. In recent years, he served as marketing and advertising consultant to Combe Inc., Bausch & Lomb and Himmel, Inc. as well as companies headquartered in Europe and Japan. As Adjunct Assistant Professor at the Pace Univeristy Business School, he shared his knowledge and kindled excitement about the power of marketing among hundreds of Pace students from 1976 to 1985. Mr. Albrecht was the author of numerous articles in trade journals and was also active in many professional groups. He was a member of the Pharmaceutical Advertising Club, The National Writers' Club, FL State University Alumni Association, The International Platform Association, Phi Beta Kappa as well as Phi Kappa Phi, Phi Eta Sigma and Alpha Delta Sigma. For many years, he has been listed in Who's Who in America. He is survived by his wife of 44 years, Sandi and their daughter, Sherylyn. Memorial services will be held at a future date in Westchester, NY.
      