
        MORSS-Wells. 80, former Commodore of the Eastern Yacht Club, in Marblehead, MA. Died Thursday at St. Andrews Hospital in Boothbay Harbor, ME. He was born December 4, 1916 in Boston, MA, the son of Henry A. and Edith Sherman Morss. He graduated from the Fessenden School in Newton, MA, St. George's School in Newport, RI and from Harvard College in the class of 1938. He worked for his family's Boston based business, Simplex, a cable and wire company, for many years as the controller and treasurer. After he retired he pursued his true love of yachting. He started sailing at the age of five and sailed all his life. He was a member of the Cruising Club of America. He sailed in races all over the world winning race after race in his 52 foot, Sparkman and Stephens yawl, ''Legend.'' Some of the races he won included Bermuda races, Halifax races, and transatlantic races, Fastnet and races to Spain. Some of his world sails included sailing from Buenos Aires to Rio De Janiero, Marblehead to Bermuda, and Bermuda to Spain. When he wasn't racing he was helping other skippers bring their boats back. He sailed his last Bermuda race in 1981. He had sailed in 15 regular Bermuda races, 12 of them in his own boat, since his first in the fabled Grenadier in 1934 (after voyaging to England in her for the Fastnet the previous year). He had sailed in 12 Halifax races since 1939, when Grenadier won the Schooner Class, and in 1969 won Class B in the only custom boat he ever owned, the 44 foot Sparkman and Stephens sloop Carillon. He also completed Southern Circuits in his latest Legend, a Swan 48, and Errant in 1973 and 1975. He sailed in 17 of the Portland Yacht Club's Monhegan races, he took home silver more than half the time, and won the race overall twice. He was a member of many yacht clubs throughout the world including for 60 years at the Eastern Yacht Club and Boothbay Harbor Yacht Club. He was a veteran of WWII serving in the U.S. Army. He is survived by his wife, Nancy Rice Morss of West Boothbay Harbor, ME; son John Addel of Franconia, NH; daughter Leslie Morss Kane of Stratham, NH; sisters Eleanor Morss English of Liberty Corner, NY; Virginia Morss Galpin of North Bramford, CT; sister-in-law Elisabeth Morss of Hardwick, MA. A memorial service will be held at a later date in the Spring to be announced. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to St. Andrews Hospital, 3 St. Andrews Lane, Boothbay Harbor, ME, 04538. For more information call Simmons & Harrington Funeral Home, Boothbay Harbor, ME.
      