
        THALER-Rabbi Richard. Beloved husband of Julie. Loving father of Gilad and Itai. Precious son of Rabbi Albert and Shirley Thaler. Loving brother of Judy Kane and Dena Thaler. Services 10:30 A.M., at Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51 Street, New York City.
        THALER-Rabbi Richard. ''The Crown of our Head is Fallen'' (Lamentations 5:16). Our hearts are bleeding at the loss of a dynamic 41 year old young man and our Rabbi, who possessed a boundless love for the Jewish people, the State of Israel and an enthusiasm for Jewish life which he imparted through his sermons, his teachings and his family life. He was a role model to all as he continued leading us while valiantly fighting his private battle with cancer this past year. While we were privileged to have him serve our congregation for a brief four years, he left an indelible impression in our hearts and minds. It is tragic that he did not live to see the realization and completion of his dream, the new Nursery and Hebrew School. Our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Julie, adored chidren, Gilad and Itai, his loving parents Rabbi Albert and Shirley Thaler, dear sisters Judy Kane (Rabbi Steven) and Dena Thaler (Steven Israel) and the entire bereaved family. The Sutton Place Synagogue family share their sorrow and mourn with them at this grievous time. We were indeed privileged to share the gift of life that was Richard Thaler. Services today 10:30 A.M., Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51st Street, New York. Robert W. Berend, President Philip Sassower, Exec. Comm. Chair Dov Keren, Cantor Harriet Janover, Exec. Director
        THALER-Rabbi Richard. The Ramah family deeply mourns the untimely passing of Rabbi Richard Thaler. A bright, dynamic and beautiful servant of God has been summoned to the throne on high. May God grant comfort to his parents, Rabbi Albert and Shirley, wife, Julie, children, Gilad and Itai, sisters, Judy and Dena and the entire family. Rabbi Sheldon Dorph National Director Rabbi Stanley Bramnick Director of Administration Alan Silberman President
        THALER-Rabbi Richard. The Officers, Trustees, clergy, staff and members of Temple Gates of Prayer of Flushing extend their heartfelt condolences to our beloved Rabbi, Albert and Mrs. Shirley Thaler, on the untimely passing of their son, Rabbi Richard Thaler. Our condolences are also extended to Julie Gilad Itai, Judy and Rabbi Steve Kane and Dina and Steve Israel. May they be comforted among family and friends. Morris A. Urieff, President Fanny Handel, Secretary
        THALER-Rabbi Richard. The Ramah Day Camp in Nyack mourns the untimely loss of our devoted staff member, Richard Thaler, z''l, husband to Julie, father to Itai and Gilad, son of our beloved former Director, Rabbi Albert Thaler and his wife Shirley. The entire Thaler family has worked tirelessly through the years to build our camp. Rabbi Richard Thaler's warmth, dynamic presence and menschlichkeit will be sorely missed. Baruch Dayan Emet. The Community of the Ramah Day Camp in Nyack, NY
        THALER-Rabbi Richard. You became a world-class rabbi before our very eyes and G-d saw too and called you to His service. In the face of this unspeakable tragedy we know however that you would want us to maintain our faith. Your devoted wife Julie and your wonderful sons Gilad and Itai will forever be cherished by us as will your beautiful memory. Thanks for all you gave us and gave to so many. Shalom Chaver. Shelley and Robert W. Berend
        THALER-Rabbi Richard. The management and staff of ''Sinai Chapels'' wish to extend our sincerest condolences to the entire Thaler family. Our thoughts are with you in this time of sorrow. May his soul rest in everlasting peace. Seymour and Michael Resnick
        THALER-Rabbi Richard. The Women's League of Sutton Place Synagogue mourns the passing of our beloved Rabbi, teacher, and friend. His legacy of Torah, tzedukah, and chesed will remain in our hearts forever. Ellen Sloame Fawer, President
        THALER-Rabbi Richard. The Officers and Trustees of East 55th Street Conservative Synagogue extend their heartfelt condolences to the family of Rabbi Richard Thaler and to the members of Sutton Place Synagogue on the loss of their beloved Rabbi.
        THALER-Rabbi Richard. We remember this courageous man for his dedication to a life of Torah and commitment to his beloved Congregation. Condolences to his family. Lita and Stephen Greenwald
      