
        BERMAN-Philip I. The Officers and Board of American Friends of the Hebrew University (AFHU) mourn with great sadness the passing of our friend & benefactor Philip I. Berman, a member of of the AFHU Board of Directors whose vision and generosity meant so much to the University. The contributions that he and his beloved wife, Dr. Muriel Berman, both members of the University's Board of Governors, have made over the years will benefit many generations of scholars and researchers in a number of important areas, including medicine, archaeology, and the arts. Among their many important contributions are: The Philip I. and Muriel M. Berman Center for Biblical Archaeology; The Philip I. and Muriel M. Berman National Medical Library, one of the most modern and efficient medical libraries in the world and a center for biocommunications for all of Israel; an apartment home for nurses at the Hadassah - Hebrew University complex at Ein Kerem; a 350-seat auditorium at the Hadassah Hospital on Mount Scopus; the Berman Computer for the University's Index of Jewish Art; and the Muriel M. and Philip I. Berman Scholarship and Fellowship Program, which provides fellowships for advanced overseas studies, teaching fellowships, merit scholarships and visiting professorships. In addition, several important works of art donated by the Bermans grace the University's campuses, reminding all who walk by of their generosity and superb taste. Philip and Muriel Berman received honorary doctorate degrees from the University, and were awarded the Scopus Award, the highest honor that the American Friends can confer. Philip was a role model to all. We want to express our deepest sympathies to his wife, Muriel, their three children, Nancy Berman Bloch, Nina Sheafer, and Steven Berman, their six grandchildren and extended family. The funeral will be held at Keneseth Israel Synagogue, 2227 Chew Street, Allentown, PA., at 11 AM, Sunday, November 30. Keith L. Sachs, President Lawrence Newman, Ch. of Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive VP
        BERMAN-Philip I. The American Jewish Committee notes with profound sadness the death of Philip I. Berman who served with distinction for many years as an A.J.C. Honorary Vice-President. Phil brought his extraordinary energy and commitment to many of the Committee's programs, especially interreligious relations. Through his efforts the A.J.C. established the visiting Jewish Scholar's Programs at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome and at Catholic institutions of higher learning in Poland. He also sponsored pioneering studies of Evangelical Christian-Jewish relations in the United States. Phil Berman, a former Marine, successful business man, and lover of art, possessed a unique zest for life that touched all who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Muriel and to the entire family. Robert S. Rifkind, President David A. Harris, Exec. Director Rabbi A. James Rudin, Interreligious Affairs Dir. Murray Friedman, Mid-Atlantic Regional Director
        BERMAN-Philip. The National Board of Hadassah mourns the passing of a generous friend, patron of the arts, collector and dedicated Zionist, Philip Berman, husband of our esteemed leader and national board member, Dr. Muriel Berman. This devoted couple's humanitarian and aesthetic initiatives enhanced the quality of life through countless national and international causes. The Hadassah Medical Organization in Jerusalem benefitted from their magnanimous contributions to the healing arts. Sincerest condolences to his wife, children, and grandchildren: their family was beloved by the Hadassah family. May his memory be for a blessing. Pres. National Hadassah Marlene E. Post
      