
        MORRIS-Norman M. 99. In his sleep on November 24. Beloved husband of the late Adele (nee Groden) for sixty years. Devoted father of Arline and Marvin Lubin and Robert and Sandi Morris. Proud grandfather of Kenneth Lubin, Wendy and Paul Aglietti, Carol and Michael Hundert, Lee and Merry Morris, David and Eta Morris, Richard Morris, Jeffrey and Lauren Morris and Deborah Morris and adored by eleven great grandchildren. Devoted brother to Edward and the late Rose and the late Bessie. Services were held at ''The Riverside''.
        MORRIS-Norman M. The Brandeis University community mourns the death of a cherished friend. Norman Morris was the first to organize the national jewelry industry on behalf of Brandeis, and provided dedicated leadership for many years. He was elected a Brandeis Fellow, in recognition of his devotion and generosity. The Adele G. Morris Memorial Scholarship honors the memory of his beloved wife, and the Norman and Adele Morris Residence Hall stands as a memorial to the couple's commitment to Brandeis. We extend our deepest sympathies to his daughter, Arline and son-in-law, Marvin Lubin, a Brandeis President's Councilor; his son, Robert, a Brandeis Fellow, and daughter-in-law, Sandi; his grandchildren, including Carol Hundert, Brandeis Class of 1978; and his entire family. Jehuda Reinharz, President Barton J. Winokur, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        MORRIS-Norman. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a dear friend who, with his beloved late wife, Adele, was a YU Guardian and Founder of our Albert Einstein College of Medicine. The Adele Morris Memorial Scholarship at the Undergraduate Schools and the Adele and Norman Morris Scholarship at AECOM honor their distinguished names. We extend our heartfelt condolences to children, Arline (and Marvin) Lubin and Robert (and Sandi) Morris; brother, Edward; grandchildren; great-grandchildren; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        MORRIS-Norman M. The Officers and Board of Directors of The Jewish Guild for the Blind note with deepest sorrow the passing of Norman Morris. His devotion to The Guild and in particular to the Home for Aged Blind and whose interest in improving the quality of life for elderly blind and visually impaired persons never wavered. We send our sincerest condolences to his family. James M. Dubin, Chairman John F. Heimerdinger, President
        MORRIS-Norman. Generations of employees and associates mourn the loss of their leader and mentor. He will long be remembered for a century of business achievement and social commitment, the scope and depth of which cannot be duplicated. He gave character and dignity to everything he did. The Employees of The Norman M. Morris Corp. Roma Industries
      