
        OAKES-Evelena ''Deede'' Stevens. Age 71, wife of Judge James L. Oakes, of Brattleboro, VT, died October 21, 1997. Deede (as friends and family called her) was known for her good spirits and a warm smile for everyone. Born in New York City on June 14, 1926, she was the daughter of Byam K. and Clare (Reynders) Stevens. Her childhood years were spent on Long Island, graduating from Green Vale School, as well as Garrison Forest School in Baltimore, MD. She also attended Vassar College from 1944-46. Mrs. Oakes lived in Brattleboro, VT, and Edgartown, MA, as well as New York City where her husband is a Senior Judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (NY,CT,VT). From 1985 to 1990 she was Chairman of the Board of Directors of the then mental hospital division of the Brattleboro Retreat. She was active for years as a member of Brattleboro Youth Services and also served as a Trustee and supporter of various Brattleboro organizations, as well as of World Learning, Inc., Marlboro College, Planned Parenthood of Vermont, and Southern Poverty Law Center. Mrs. Oakes was known as a lifelong lover of music, an avid reader of The New York Times, a gracious hostess at Second Circuit Judicial Conferences, a gardener, and, as a young woman, an accomplished pianist and field hockey player. Survivors besides her husband are her beloved four sons: Richard A. (of So. Glastonbury, CT), Scott (of Stamford, CT), Albert (of Bridgeport, CT), and Michael (of New York City) Kenworthy, all by her late first husband Dr. Richard A. Kenworthy III, two daughters-in-law, Beth and Eliane, wives of Richard and Scott; and two grandchildren, Albert Oakes Kenworthy and Anne Casey Kenworthy, children of Richard and Beth. She also leaves her brother Byam K. Stevens, Jr. of Jericho, NY, and sister Mrs. Daniel (Clare ''Pat'') Ingersoll of Chestertown, MD; seven nephews and one niece; three stepchildren; six step granddaughters; and a host of friends in all corners of the U.S.A. A memorial service was held at Brattleboro's West Village Meeting House on Saturday, November 8, at 1 PM. Friends were invited by the family, in lieu of flowers, to make donations to Brattleboro Memorial Hospital, Brattleboro Women's Crisis Center, Brattleboro Youth Services, or Vermont Planned Parenthood, all in care of Ker, Westerlund & Fleming Funeral Home, 39 High St, Brattleboro, VT, attention Edward F. Hurley.
      