
        PAPPENHEIM-Jacob Karl. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jacob Karl Pappenheim, an ardent supporter of the Jewish community in Israel and Switzerland, and a beloved husband, father, grandfather, and great grandfather. His sister, Erica Jesselson, is a valued and devoted member of UJA-Federation's Board of Directors. Erica and her late husband, Ludwig, have received international recognition as extraordinary Jewish communal leaders and philanthropists. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        PAPPENHEIM-Karl. The Officers and Board of Directors of American Friends of the Hebrew University mourn with great sorrow the passing of Karl Pappenheim, brother of Erica Jesselson, who is a benefactor of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem's Jewish National Library and many other programs at the Hebrew University. She is a member of the University's International Board of Governors and Council of Trustees of American Friends. We extend our deepest condolences. Lawrence Newman, Ch. of Board Keith L. Sachs, President Adam B. Kahan, Executive VP
        PAPPENHEIM-Karl. The Board and Staff of the American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, extend heartfelt condolences to Erica Jesselson on the passing of her beloved brother, Karl Pappenheim. The Jesselson family have been generous benefactors of Ben-Gurion University. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Lis Gaines N.Y. Regional Chairperson Vered Mallon Greater N.Y. Regional Dir. Kenneth M. Farber Executive Vice President
        PAPPENHEIM-Karl. The American Friends of the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Board of Directors, and staff, extend our heartfelt sympathy to our esteemed board member and benefactor Erica Jesselson and to her sister Lucy Lang, on the loss of their beloved brother Joseph Karl Pappenheim. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire Jesselson family. Romie Shapiro, Chairman Harry Bauer, President Suzanne Resnik Executive Director Dr. Ran Sapoznik Head of the Academy
        PAPPENHEIM-Jacob Karl. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Center for Jewish History extend our deepest condolences on the passing of the beloved brother and uncle of our cherished board members and beloved friends, Erica and Michael Jesselson. This is a profound loss for the Jewish community. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Bruce Slovin, Chairman Joyce C. Kitey, Sr. V.P. The Center for Jewish History
        PAPPENHEIM-Karl. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of Karl Pappenheim, noted Jewish educator, and brother of our distinguished supporters Erica Jesselson and Lucy Lang. Sincere condolences to the family. Yehi Zichro Baruch. Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchwald, Dir.
      