
        GOULD-Nathan. Nathan Gould was a true humanitarian. During his 40-year tenure as executive director of Women's American ORT, he formulated the concept of ORT as a movement in Jewish life. He built this organization from a small group to a major national Jewish women's organization. He educated us. He moved mountains for us. He inspired us to move mountains. Nathan Gould spearheaded ORT's movement into Latin America, North America and Russia. He mobilized Women's American ORT's support to answer the needs he found abroad, especially in Israel. The School of Engineering in Jerusalem, the Braude International College in Karmiel, and, in particular, the Syngalowski Center in Tel Avivthe first college-like campus for a vocational high school, the likes of which the world had never seenwere his vision. He put Women's American ORT on the map of prominent world Jewry. Nathan reached out and touched every one of us. At national conventions he would walk down an aisle through thousands of people and touch them on the shoulder; he knew their name. He knew everyone's name. We all have personal stories about Nathan. One woman said, ''What Nathan did for me...'' He had empowered her to speak out against censorship in Texas public schools, something this elderly woman didn't know she could do. A longtime Women's American ORT officer tells how Nathan helped her make a meaningful connection between the basic human values she learned from her parents and her own Jewish identity. ''He encouraged me to act on my principles,'' she said. ''And he made it feel like an imperative.'' Nathan Gould was a mentor, a teacher and a friend. His legacy will live on in Women's American ORT. The officers, Board of Directors and members together extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Ruthie, and his family. Ruth S. Taffel President Pepi Dunay First National Vice-President Rosina K. Abramson, Esq Executive Director and CEO
        GOULD-Nathan. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of American ORT, deeply mourn the passing of The National Executive Vice President Emeritus of our sister organization Woman's American ORT, Nathan Gould who, with his ground breaking vision, led Woman's American ORT in its swift development as a mass membership organization. His tenure from 1950 into the 1990's was marked by a profound commitment to social justice, a vigorous intellect and an understanding of ORT's capacity and responsibilty as an important movement in Jewish life. His mentoring of ORT leaders will be his legacy and a source of ORT's strength for many years to come. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Ruth and the entire Gould family. Donations in his memory may be sent to Woman's American ORT. Paul Borman, President, Murray Koppelman, Chairman of The Board, Paul Bernick, Executive Director Emeritus Brian J. Strum, Executive Vice President
      