
        PAPPENHEIM-Karl. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of a widely respected member of the Jewish community both in Israel and in Switzerland. Mr. Karl Pappenheim was the brother of Erica Jesselson and Lucy Lang. Mrs. Jesselson is an esteemed member of The Executive Committee of our American Board of Trustees. Mrs. Jesselson and her late husband, Ludwig Jesselson, the eminent philanthropist and longtime Chairman of our Global Board of Trustees assumed critical leadership in assuring the University's growth and impact on society in Israel and for the worldwide Jewish community. May the family draw solace from inspiring memories. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Prof. Moshe Kaveh, President Selik Wengrowsky, Chairman Global Board of Trustees Jane Stern Lebell, President, American Friends Brig. Gen. (Res.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President
        PAPPENHEIM-Karl. We express our condolences to our Chairperson, Erica Jesselson and Women's Division board member, Lucy Lang upon the passing of their beloved brother Karl. He left a legacy in his beloved city of Jerusalem. Multitudes of people will remember a fine man who walked humbly but with strengh of character and love for family. Our sincerest condolences to his wife Beate, children, grandchildren, great grandchildren and sisters. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Menno Ratzker, President Stuart Tauber, Exec. Director Prof. Jonathan Halevy, Dir Gen'l
        PAPPENHEIM - J. Karl. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and Staff extend our heartfelt sympathy to Board member, Erica Jesselson and her sister Lucy Lang on the passing of their brother. We extend our deepest condolences to the Pappenheim and Jesselson families. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman, Co-Chairmen Herman S. Sandler, President, Albert Schussler, Pres. Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec Dir.
        PAPPENHEIM-Jacob Karl. The Board of Directors and Staff of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourn the loss of Jacob Karl Pappenheim, beloved brother of our esteemed Board member Erica Jesselson. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Bruce Slovin, Chairman Tom L. Freudenheim, Executive Director YIVO Institute for Jewish Research
        PAPPENHEIM-Jacob Karl. S/A/R Academy extends condolences to our friends, founders and benefactors Erica Jesselson and Lucy Lang upon the loss of their beloved brother. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President
      