
        BARISH-Barbara. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the premature death of our beloved friend and esteemed colleague, Barbara Barish, Vice President, Academic Administration, Mount Sinai School of Medicine. A graduate of the University of Rochester, with an MBA in Health Care from Bernard Baruch College, Barbara Barish joined Mount Sinai's staff in 1980 as a financial administrator for Support Services, and later served as a special projects coordinator in the Nursing Department, before her appointment as Associate Dean for Operations in 1985, the first administrator to be recruited for the establishment of the Dean's Office of Mount Sinai School of Medicine separate from that of the President's Office. Since that time, she has played a pivotal role in numerous administrative and organizational enhancements that have contributed to the success of the School of Medicine, with broad responsibilities ranging from resource allocation to faculty recruitment and appointments as well as oversight of many school-wide programs, including Ethics In Research and departmental evaluations. Respected for her knowledge and skill, she also was as warm and personable as she was talented, a woman of intellect and wit with whom it was a joy and a privilege to be associated. She will be remembered fondly, and her loss dearly felt. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband, our colleague at Mount Sinai, Stuart, to their sons, Michael and David, to her mother, Esther Meyer, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Wendy Z. Goldstein, Director
        BARISH-Barbara. The staff and faculty of the Graduate School of Biological Sciences at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the passing of Barbara Barish, Associate Dean for Administration of the School of Medicine. This special friend and colleague played essential and challenging roles in the enormous growth of the institutional research and education programs during the past decade. She strongly supported the goals of the Graduate School. She provided guidance and assistance towards realizing them with the same remarkable problem solving skills and administrative integrity that characterized all her work. Barbara Barish's humor, honesty, and warmth gave all of us a fresh perspective on how difficult administrative tasks might be handled by a ''natural pro.'' While we endeavor to learn from her example, we will miss her deeply. Terry Ann Krulwich, Dean of the Graduate School and Sharon and Frederick A. KlingensteinNathan G. Kase Professor C. Gita Bosch, Assistant Dean of the Graduate School
        BARISH-Barbara. The Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the tragic and premature loss of our dear colleague, Barbara Barish, Associate Dean for Operations and Vice-President for Academic Administration. Barbara was a brilliant and creative administrator who always found inventive solutions for complex problems. Always sensitive to the human impact of organizational change, she was a valued partner in the design of the Department's new initiatives and recruitments. We will remember her most for her integrity, collegiality and loyalty to Mount Sinai. We extend our sincerest condolences to her mother, her husband Stuart, her children Michael and David, and her entire family. Barry S. Coller, M.D., Chairman Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine Mount Sinai Medical Center
        BARISH-Barbara. The physicians and staff of Mt. Sinai Faculty Practice Associates mourn the loss of our colleague and friend, Barbara Barish. We will miss her good counsel, her good stories, and her good will. She was a woman of warmth, humor, grace and exceptional courage and we were fortunate to have known her. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband, also our colleague and friend, Stuart Barish, to her two sons, and to her entire family. Kristjan T. Ragnarsson M.D. Chair, Board of Governors Burton P. Drayer M.D. Vice Chair, Board of Governors Sloane Elman, Executive Director Faculty Practice Associates Mt. Sinai School of Medicine
        BARISH-Barbara. Loss is painful. When it occurs prematurely it is tragic. We in Graduate Medical Education at The Mount Sinai School of Medicine know how Barbara's good humor and tireless efforts made an impossible job seem easy. We shall miss her. Barry Stimmel, M.D., Dean For Graduate Medical Education
      