
        OFFIT-Rhea W. On December 29th, 1997. Rhea Offit (nee Wolf), beloved wife of the late Michael Offit. Beloved mother of Sara O. Abeshouse and Morris W. Offit. Devoted mother-in-law of Nancy S. Offit and the late Dr. George A. Abeshouse. Devoted sister of the late Chauncey Wolf. Loving grandmother of Lynn Abeshouse, Mark Abeshouse, Ned and Daniel Offit. Loving great grandmother of Marnie and Michael Abeshouse. Services at Beth El Congregation, 8101 Park Heights Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21208, on Wednesday, December 31 at 11AM. Interment Beth El Memorial Park, Randallstown, Maryland. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be directed to The Michael Offit Scholarship Fund, C/O Beth El Congregation. In mourning at 11 Slade Avenue, Apt 401, Baltimore, Maryland 21208. For information contact Sol Levinson and Bros., Baltimore, Maryland, 1 - 800 338-1701.
        OFFIT-Rhea W. The Staff and Board of The Jewish Museum send deepest sympathy to the family of Morris W. Offit, Emeritus Board Chair and Trustee of the Museum, on the loss of his mother Rhea. Morris Offit's dedication to the Museum and his exemplary leadership reflect the values of his charitable and loving family. We join his wife Nancy, their sons Daniel and Ned, his sister Sara Abeshouse and her children Mark and Lynn in mourning their loss, and extend to them our heartfelt condolences. Joan Rosenbaum, Director Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President
        OFFIT-Rhea. The faculty, administration, board of directors and students of the Jewish Theological Seminary record with profound sorrow the passing of Rhea Offit, mother of JTS board member and Chairman of the Board of the Davidson Graduate School of Jewish Education, Morris W. Offit. Known for her support of the needy, she instilled the Jewish value of philanthropy in both her son and daughter, Sara Abeshouse of Baltimore, and in her four grandchildren, all of whom survive her. May her memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Board Chairman
        OFFIT-Rhea. The officers, members, and staff of the American Jewish Committee are deeply saddened by the death of Rhea Offit, mother of Morris W. Offit, chair of AJC's Board of Trustees and a devoted member of our Board of Governors. We send our most heartfelt condolences to Morris and the rest of the grieving family. Robert S. Rifkind, President David A. Harris, Executive Director
      