
        SUSMAN-Karen Hyman, 55. Of Houston, Texas, died on December 3, 1997 in New York City. Daughter of Dorothy Jean Hyman and the late Paul Hyman of Austin. Karen was born and raised in Austin, where she graduated from Austin High. At the University of Texas, from which she graduated in 1964, she met Stephen D. Susman, and they married in 1965. Once their children began school, Karen entered law school, receiving her J.D. from the University of Houston Law Center in 1981. Karen became board certified as a family law specialist and practiced law in Houston for many years. Karen's great love of contemporary art permeated her life. She was a friend and supporter of many artists and an avid collector. Karen served on the board of Houston's Contemporary Arts Museum and the Yale Art Gallery in New Haven, Connecticut. Karen was deeply devoted to her religion. A member of Congregation Beth Israel, she held leadership positions in many local and national Jewish organizations. Most recently she served as Chair of the Anti-Defamation League's Southwest Region, as a member of the ADL's National Board of Directors, and as a founding director of the National Jewish Democratic Council. Karen was active in politics for many years. Upon learning of her death, President Clinton called Karen's family from Air Force One to express his condolences and tell them how much he had liked and admired her. Karen is survived by her devoted husband Steve; their daughter Stacy, of New York City; their son Harry, of Washington, DC; her mother Dorothy Hyman, of Austin; her brother and sisterin-law Paul and Laura Hyman, of Austin; her brother-in-law and sister-in-law Tommy Susman and Susan Braden, of Washington, DC; and nieces and nephews Tara Susman of New York City, Shana Susman of Los Angeles, Micah Susman of Austin, Daily Susman of Washington, DC, and Amy, Lindsay and Marissa Hyman, all of Austin. In lieu of flowers, Karen's family requests that she be remembered by her many friends through contributions to the ADL Karen Susman Memorial Fund, 4635 Southwest Freeway, Suite 400, Houston, Texas 77027. A funeral service will be held at Congregation Beth Israel, 5600 North Braeswood in Houston at 11:00 AM on Sunday, December 7. Burial will follow at Beth Israel Cemetery, 1101 Antoine. The pallbearers will be Scott Atlas, Russell Deutsch, Parker Folse, Lee Godfrey, Marc Grossberg, Gary Jacobs, Terry Oxford, and Tommy Susman.
        SUSMAN-Karen. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Karen Susman, an ADL National Commissioner and former Southwest Regional Board Chair (Houston). A long time supporter of the League's work and a well known community leader and philanthropist, we will miss her leadership and counsel. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Stephen, children Harry and Stacy and the family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
      