
        HOOKER-Janet Annenberg. Died on December 13, 1997. The widow of James Stewart Hooker, she is survived by her sons, Donald P. Kahn (Jeanne) and Gilbert S. Kahn, her brother, the Hon. Walter H. Annenberg and two sisters, Enid A. Haupt and Evelyn A. Hall. She is also survived by five grandchildren, Donald P. Kahn, Jr., Douglas T. Kahn (Dr. Margaret Carter), Steven D. Kahn, Alexandra Kahn (John Graubert) and Julie K. Brown, and five great grandchildren, Sophia and Isabel CarterKahn, Christina Graubert, Thomas M. Bender and Samuel A. Brown, Jr. She was first married to the late L. Stanley Kahn-a member of the New York Stock Exchange. In 1938 she married investment banker, Joseph A. Neff who died in 1969. She was very active in New York Charities-especially the Metropolitan Opera where she donated the Lobby Colonnade in memory of her mother, Mrs. Moses L. Annenberg. In addition, she funded the redecoration of the Blue Room at The White House, and, with her brother and his wife, helped fund projects at both the State Department's Diplomatic Reception Rooms and Blair House. In 1977, Mrs. Hooker gave an historic emerald to the National Gem Collection at the National Museum of Natural History. In 1991 and 1992, she gave additional gems to the collection and was the major donor for the Janet Annenberg Hooker Hall of Geology, Gems and Minerals which opened in September 1997. Mrs. Hooker, a resident of Palm Beach, Florida, also owned a summer home, Fairholme, in Newport, Rhode Island. A Funeral Mass was held. For information call Frank E. Campbell, New York City, 212-288-3500.
        HOOKER-Janet Annenberg. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine are saddened by the passing of a distinguished philanthropist whose munificence supported a wide range of endeavors from music organizations to the redecoration of the White House, beloved wife of the late James Stewart Hooker; mother of Donald P. (and Jeanne) Kahn & Gilbert S. Kahn; and sister of the Hon. Walter H. Annenberg, Enid A. Haupt, and Evelyn A. Hall. Mr. Annenberg, the eminent philanthropist, is a YU Benefactor and honorary alumnus who is an AECOM Founder and honorary member of its Board of Overseers. We extend heartfelt condolences to grandchildren, greatgrandchildren, and the entire family. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson AECOM Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean AECOM
      