
        STECHER-Hon. Martin B. On December 4, 1997. Devoted husband of Judith Stolitzky Stecher. Beloved father to Jamie and Esta, and Joseph and Lizbeth. Adored grandfather to Michael, Emily and Ryan. Loving uncle to Jo and Madelaine. Brother of the late Phillip Stecher, brother-in-law of Hermine Brucker and Bernice Stecher. For nearly thirty years, a model judge on the State Supreme Court and the New York City Civil Court. Services at The Riverside, 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue, Friday, 11:15AM. Contributions may be made to the West End Synagogue, New York University Medical Center or Lenox Hill Hospital, all of which sustained him spiritually and physically.
        STECHER-Justice Martin. The Board of Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, First District, deeply mourns the loss of our illustrious former colleague, and dear friend, Justice Martin Stecher. He served as a Judge, first of the New York City Civil Court and then of the New York State Supreme Court, with the greatest distinction, for twenty seven years. He was a sweet-tempered, religious, and upright man, a scholar devoted to the law and the ethical and moral system he saw it as embodying. Our hearts go out to his family. We will all miss him terribly. Beatrice Shainswit, President
        STECHER-The Honorable Martin. The Community of West End Synagogue mourns the passing of its staunch Reconstructionist founding member. A CCNY and NYU Law School graduate, he was a Justice of the Civil Court in the city of New York, eventually elected to the State Supreme Court. A Judaic scholar, we will miss his intelligence and courtly graciousness and extend our sympathy to his wife Judith and their sons and families. Rabbi Avi Winokur Cantor Kathy J. Barr Donald Shapiro, Chairperson
        STECHER-Martin. The partners and staff of Stecher Jaglom & Prutzman mourn the passing of our colleague and counsel, Martin Stecher, respected jurist, counselor, father and friend. Our deepest sympathy extends to his entire family, particularly his wife Judith, sons Jamie and Joseph and their wives Esta and Lizbeth, and grandchildren Michael, Emily and Ryan. We will all miss his guiding wisdom, integrity and values.
        STECHER-Martin. We mourn deeply the passing of our beloved friend who, since 1980 filled our Friday night get-togethers with joy, song, and learning. The Havura Elga and Steve Stulman Barbara and Herman Traub
        STECHER-Martin J. A forever friend whose love, companionship and intelligence was always there for us all. As he was a living link to our parents, so he will be a link to the future for the many he so genuinely touched. Elaine and Al Corwin and Family
      