
        CHASSLER-Sey. December 11, 1997. Wonderful husband of Natalie, loving father of Joseph, Philip and Deborah. Caring father-in-law of David Lucal and Louise Cody. Adored grandfather of Zach, Nora, Ben, Daniel and Hannah. Devoted twin brother of Vivienne Schwartz. Good friend and mentor to many, he was so loving and so loved. Services Sunday at 11:15 A.M., at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in Sey's memory may be made to the Child Care Action Campaign. The family will be sitting Shiva 20 Sutton Place South through Wednesday.
        CHASSLER-Sey. The Board of Directors, members and staff of the American Society of Magazine Editors (ASME) mourn the passing of our beloved friend and colleague. As the progressive editor of Redbook from 1965-1981 he proudly stood as a leader of the women's rights movement. And as a member of the ASME Board for more than 15 years, and its president from 1980-1982 his wise counsel, leadership and devotion were unending. Sey deeply touched many lives and we will cherish his memory always. We extend our deepest sympathies to his loving wife Natalie, his children and grandchildren. Marlene Kahan Executive Director
        CHASSLER-Sey. The staff of Parade Publications, where he was a consulting editor to PARADE Magazine, mourns the untimely loss of a beloved friend and colleague. Sey was a dear and cherished member of our family, many of whom had also benefited from his wise counsel and guidance during the nearly twenty years that he was editor of Redbook. We will miss his sense of humor, keen intellect and deep sense of commitment and compassion. We extend our deepest sympathies to his loving wife, Natalie, his children, Joseph, Philip, and Deborah and his grandchildren, Nora, Zachariah, Benjamin, Daniel and Hannah. Carlo Vittorini, Chairman John Beni, President Walter Anderson, Editor
        CHASSLER-Sey. CCAC mourns the passing of our longtime board member and past Vice President. Sey made lasting contributions to our organization and will be sorely missed. Richard B. Stolley, Chairman Faith Wohl, President Elinor Guggenheimer, Founding President
      