
        GILL-Brendan. The Trustees and Staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Brendan Gill, a great New Yorker and dear friend of the Whitney Museum. For fifteen years, Brendan served as a Trustee of the Museum, and during that time his energy, wit and wise counsel were essential to the Museum's life. An Honorary Trustee of the Whitney, Brendan was co-chair of the Museum's Library Fellows and an active member of the Whitney National Committee. Along with all who cherish the special qualities that distinguish New York and those who struggle to maintain the unique beauty of this city, we will miss Brendan's fierce intelligence and generous spirit. We extend our heartfelt sympathies and condolences to his loving and devoted wife Anne, to his children and grandchildren. Brendan will be deeply missed by all of us. New York has lost one of its treasures. Flora M. Biddle, Hon. Chairman Leonard A. Lauder, Chairman Gilbert C. Maurer, President David A. Ross, Director
        GILL-Brendan. The Library Fellows of the Whitney Museum of American Art deeply mourn the loss of Brendan Gill. As the founding chairman of a group committed to building an important research facility on American art, Brendan Gill generously gave his time to raise the funds and inspire the intellectual cultivation that created the Museum's Frances Mulhall Achilles Library, which will open in March 1998. He presided over the ''Artists and Writers Series'' published by the Library, a series of more than 20 fine-press books combining original graphics and new writing by distinguished American artists and writers. We are forever in his debt and know that his selfless spirit will live on in those who knew him and his many good works. Flora M. Biddle, Co-Chairman Joan Hardy Clark, Co-Chairman May Castleberry, Irma and Benjamin Weiss Librarian
        GILL-Brendan. After a run of eighty-three years, sadly the words have stopped, the music has ended, the lights have dimmed and the curtain has fallen. The Board of Directors of The American Theatre Wing deeply mourns the death of their beloved and esteemed colleague Brendan Gill. Renowned for his work in many areas including historical preservation, art, literature and architecture he also had a wide knowledge and love of the theatre. His contributions as a loyal supporter and long time Wing Board Member were invaluable. During the last 20 years he served as a moderator for the Wing's ''Working in the Theatre'' Seminars, telecast weekly on CUNY-TV. His wisdom and humor will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his loved ones. Isabelle Stevenson, President American Theatre Wing
        GILL-Brendan. The Board and Staff of The Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh mourn the passing of Brendan Gill, Chairman of the Board of the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts. Mr. Gill's always eloquent and witty writings in support of American arts and letters formed a primer for intelligent yet approachable arts' advocacy and made him the perfect voice to speak on behalf of Warhol and his every-accessible art. His unique, vivacious erudition in an increasingly mordant world of belles lettres will be sorely missed. We exend our sincere condolences to his family. Juliet Lea Simonds, Chair of the Board Thomas Sokolowski, Director
        GILL-Brendan. The National Committee of the Whitney Museum of American Art sadly acknowledges the passing of its first Chairman and Founding Member, Brendan Gill. Brendan's deep and varied knowledge coupled with his marvelous sense of humor made him a most unique leader and valued friend. He brought us together like family and no meeting will be the same without him. He will be missed as deeply as he was loved. The Committee extends condolences and loving support to his wife Anne and his family. Norah Sharpe Stone, Chairman
        GILL-Brendan. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the New York Landmarks Conservancy are deeply saddened by the death of our beloved Chairman Emeritus, Brendan Gill. He helped found the Conservancy, led our early battles and remained our conscience and guide. His wit and spirit touched us all and he is truly irreplaceable. It was an honor and pleasure to be associated with him. Our sincere condolences to his family and to the many friends whose lives he enriched. Donald Oresman, Chairman Peg Breen, President
        GILL-Brendan. The Weir Farm Trust extends to the family of Brendan Gill its deep sympathy at the news of his death. Mr. Gill was a great and valued supporter of the Weir Farm. His intellect, charm and high humor brought us much good will and many new friends. We will share our deep sorrow at his loss with countless other people whose lives he touched with style, with wit and with affection. Trustees, Overseers and Staff The Weir Farm Trust Wilton, Connecticut
        GILL-Brendan. The Board and Staff of the Film Society of Lincoln Center deeply mourn the loss of its longtime Board Member and former Chairman. Brendan's guidance and support were invaluable during our organization's formative years and his sensibility, wit and friendship will be sorely missed. Roy Furman, Chairman Irwin W. Young, President Joanne Koch, Executive Director
        GILL-Brendan. The Board of Directors, colonists and staff of The MacDowell Colony note with sorrow the passing of Brendan Gill, a cherished Board member for eighteen years. He gave of his time and intellect, and his friendship will be greatly missed. Sincere condolences to his family.
        GILL-Brendan. The Trustess of The New York Society Library, the librarian and staff of the Library note with great sorrow the death of Brendan Gill, Trustee from 1973 to 1992; a generous supporter of the Library who embodied its spirit and remained a champion of literature.
        GILL-Brendan. Keen observer of both feat and folly whose chronicles tell a million stories for the rapt appreciation of lovers of New York to come. Betsy Gotbaum, Exec. Dir. The Board of Trustees The New-York Historical Society
        GILL-Brendan. The members of the American Academy of Arts & Letters note with sorrow the death of their esteemed colleague whose passing will be mourned by the world of literature.
        GILL-Brendan. Friends of the Upper East Side Historic District will miss our good friend and longtime Trustee. Board of Trustees Anne L. Millard, President
      