
        BERNSTEIN-Irving. December 10, 1997. Beloved husband of Judith. Loving father of Robert and Joseph. Grandfather of Shira, Roshelle, Jared and Carl. Dear brother of Frances Kaplan and loving uncle of seven nieces and nephews. Services Friday, 12 Noon, Garlick-Hellman Funeral Home, 1091 Yonkers Ave. Interment Sharon Gardens Cemetery.
        BERNSTEIN-Irving. The officers and staff of National United Jewish Appeal mourn the passing of Irving Bernstein, UJA Executive Vice Chairman from 1971 to 1983. Mr. Bernstein joined UJA in 1947, serving in various campaign positions until he was named to lead the organization in 1971. He remained a consultant to UJA until the time of his passing. Mr. Bernstein advocated tirelessly for the safety and dignity of Jews throughout the world, and was actively involved in Israel's growth and development in its early years of statehood. A deeply compassionate human being, he toiled to build a vibrant Jewish community at home and a strong Israel. Irving, our true friend and selfless Jewish professional leader, will be sorely missed. To his wife Judith; his children Bob and Joe; his grandchildren Shira, Rochelle, Jared and Carl; his sister Frances and the entire family, we extend our deepest condolences. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Richard L. Wexler, UJA National Chairman Richard L. Pearlstone, UJA President Bernard C. Moscovitz, UJA Executive Vice President
        BERNSTEIN-Irving. The officers, members & staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the passing of our dear friend and colleague Irving Bernstein, a member of our board of directors and a legendary figure in national and international Jewish affairs. During his historic leadership of the national United Jewish Appeal, he was a mentor to many colleagues-including our own executive vice president and many of our volunteer and professional leaders-who today hold leadership positions throughout the Jewish communal world. His retirement from his professional career was the start of an active volunteer career, including key roles on the ATS board and its committees and important contributions to our work through teaching and inspiration. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Judith, sons Robert and Dr. Joseph, and the entire Bernstein family. American Society for TechnionIsrael Institute of Technology Irving A. Shepard, President Ben Z. Sosewitz, Chairman of the Board Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President
        BERNSTEIN-Irving. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Irving Bernstein, a remarkable Jewish communal leader who devoted his life to helping others, and to ensuring the welfare and survival of the Jewish people. As UJA Executive Vice-Chairman from 1971 to 1983, Mr. Bernstein helped shape events that transformed the Jewish world. Under his insightful leadership, UJA played a critical role in building the State of Israel. He was a trusted advisor to many of Israel's founding leaders, and a major figure in the Jewish community. UJA-Federation of New York deeply regrets the loss of an outstanding professional and wonderful friend. Our heartfelt sympathies go to his wife, Judith; sons Bob and Joe; grandchildren Shira, Rochelle, Jared and Carl; and sister, Frances. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P. Ernest W. Michel, Exec. V.P. Emeritus
        BERNSTEIN-Irving. The Board, Executive, Officers and Staff of the Council of Jewish Federations join in mourning the passing of a true leader of the Jewish world. A participant in many of the dramatic moments in modern history, and a valued colleague during his years as Executive Vice Chairman of UJA, Irving was a visionary dedicated to Israel and to all Jews. Our condolences to his wife, Judith; his sons, Bob and Joe; his grandchildren and his entire family. His memory will forever be a blessing. Dr. Conrad L. Giles, CJF President Martin S. Kraar, CJF Exec VP
      