
        KENNEDY-James G. Sr. At home on December 24, 1997. James G. Kennedy Sr., Chairman of the Board of James G. Kennedy & Co., Inc., began his career as a plasterer for the old Davis, Brown Company. He was born in Manhattan's Harlem and attended Townsend Harris High School. ''Back then, it was a high school for City College,'' he recalled. Mr. Kennedy completed an accelerted threeyear program at Townsend and then took courses at the Mechanical Institute, New York City. After several years as a plasterer, James Gerard Kennedy founded James G. Kennedy & Co., Inc. in 1935. After serving his country as a highly-decorated World War II veteran with the Army Corps of Engineers, his first significant project involved a major renovation for Bankers Trust company at 14 Wall Street. The Kennedy Company has since done multiple major renovations for the same client for over 60 years. A landmark project in the company's history was actually made into a motion picture by the New York Telephone Company. The film was titled ''The Miracle of Second Avenue.'' It told the story of how ''Ma Bells'' main switching center, devastated by fire, was restored to 100% working order in record time-with the help of James G. Kennedy & Co., Inc. under the leadership of its President, James G. Kennedy, Sr. Mr. Kennedy's career has been marked by ongoing involvement in industry, civic and religious activities. He has served as the President of The Building Contractors Association (''BCA'') of the City of New York, and has been a Committee Member and a member of the Board of Directors of the BCA. Mr. Kennedy also helped to maintain the integrity of the famous Heisman Trophy when he served as a Governor of the Downtown Athletic Club (home of the Heisman Trophy) in New York City. As Chairman of the Executive Council of the American Irish Historical Society, he was responsible for the reconstruction of the entire Fifth Avenue headquarters of the Society. Mr. Kennedy has been honored by The American Jewish Committee as ''Man Of The Year,'' and in 1989 he was honored by The Dominican Academy as ''A Catholic Gentleman'' for his generosity in constructing the James G. Kennedy Science Center at the school. Mr. Kennedy is also a Knight of Malta. Mr. Kennedy married the former Rita Masset in Manhattan's St. Partrick's Cathedral. They will celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary next year. Mr. Kennedy is survived by his wife Rita, son James G. Kennedy Jr. Funeral Mass today 10 AM at Sts. John and Paul Church in Larchmont, NY. For information please call the John J. Fox Funeral Home, Inc. (914) 834-0144.
      