
        ATTIE-Joseph Nathan, Dr. Dearest husband Muriel; adored father of Jeanie, Alice, Ilana, Kenny and Heliana; and precious grandfather Justine and Gideon. You were our anchor and our inspiration. It is hard to imagine how we will go on without your joyous presence and loving embrace. We love you. Funeral service: Wednesday, December 10, 11:15 A.M., Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76 St.
        ATTIE-Joseph N., M.D. The Department of Surgery of Long Island Jewish Medical Center mourns the passing of Dr. Joseph Attie. As Chief of the Head and Neck Division from 1954 until present, he created an outstanding service that strongly influenced our development. Dr. Attie had an international reputation as one of the world's prominent head and neck surgeons and was a founding member of the American Association of Endocrine Surgeons. An outstanding clinician and teacher, he touched the lives of thousands of patients and professionals. Heartfelt condolences go to his wife Muriel, and his children, Jeannie, Alice, Ilana, and Kenneth, and his grandchildren, Justine and Gideon. John Cohen, M.D. Chairman, Department of Surgery Long Island Jewish Medical Center
        ATTIE-Joseph, M.D. We are deeply saddened by the sudden death of a dear friend, a surgeon of international renown, whose skills were respected by all. His vast knowledge of surgical endocrinology, combined with his expertise in head and neck surgery saved countless lives throughout his long and active career. An intellectual with countless interests, Dr. Attie was a gifted photographer whose work reflected his thoughtful nature. We will truly miss this renaissance man as teacher and especially as a friend. We assure his family that Joseph Attie will always be remembered. Paul Karafiol, M.D. President Medical Staff Peter F. R. Walker, M.D. Chairman Medical Board Lawrence Scherr, M.D., Sr. V.P. Medical Affairs, North Shore University Hospital
        ATTIE-Joseph, MD. It is with great sorrow that we note the sudden death of our friend and mentor. Dr. Attie was an internationally known and respected surgeon whose dedication and skill epitomized surgery's finest aspirations. His vast knowledge of surgical Endocrinolgy and his experience in head and neck surgery made a life-saving difference to countless patients during his long and active career. Not only was Dr. Attie a gifted surgeon, he was an insightful and sensitive photographer as well. We will miss him as a colleague, teacher and friend. Naji Abumrad, M.D., Chairman Dept. of Surgery and Staff North Shore University Hospital
        ATTIE-Joseph N., M.D. The Trustees and staff of Long Island Jewish Medical Center mourn the sudden passing of Dr. Joseph N. Attie, distinguished head and neck surgeon and member of our staff since our founding. A true Renaissance man, Dr. Attie was that rare combination of meticulous scientist and creative artist. He leaves behind an enduring legacy. We extend our heartfelt condolence to his wife, Muriel and his entire family. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman, Board of Trustees David R. Dantzker, M.D., President & CEO
        ATTIE-Joseph N. Friend, colleague, surgeon and teacher. He was all of these to us. For more than fifty years his life and work set a standard to emulate for generations of surgeons. We share with Muriel, Jeannie, Alice, Ilana, Kenny, Justine and Gideon, our grief and loss. The Heller Family
      