
        GILBERT-Paul L., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni records with sorrow the loss of their cherished colleague and friend. During his tenure at Mount Sinai, extending over four decades, Dr. Gilbert pioneered many teaching activities including the establishment of the first Women's Health Fellowship in the U.S. A devoted teacher and supportive mentor, he represented the best tradition of the Medical Center, exemplified by his dedication to teaching and commitment to clinical excellence. An outstanding and devoted clinician, Dr. Gilbert was admired and respected by his colleagues and patients, but above all, earned a special affection by his profound humanity, generosity, warm smile and gentle humor. Today the community is richly endowed with physicians in his specialty due, in large measure, to his efforts. His wisdom, judgement, energy and constant presence, were an inspiration to all who knew him. He will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, our dear friend and colleage, Dr. Harriet Gilbert, their children and grandchildren. Wayne S. Fuchs, M.D., President Avi Barbasch, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, M.D., Treasurer
        GILBERT-Paul L., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our colleague, mentor and friend, Dr. Paul Gilbert, Associate Professor of Medicine, Chief of the Division of General Internal Medicine. In his professional career he was unique in his stature as master practitioner in both general Internal Medicine and the subspecialty of Thyroidology. He exemplified the Oslerian ideal of medical knowledge merged with humanity, wit and compassion. He was a superb role model for housestaff, students and ourselves. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, our colleague Dr. Harriet Gilbert, their children Laura, David, and Daniel, and to the entire family. Peter H. Rubin, M.D., President Lynda Mandell, M.D., Secretary Amy J. Weinstein, Administrator
        GILBERT-Paul L., M.D. The night prevailed, I never thought it could. Did we take too much or was it what you gave? Thirty years my minister-gone. How empty the days, but you saved my dreams. And the memory will never be far. Arthur Friedman
      