
        DOLGER-Henry, M.D. On Dec. 3, 1997 after a long illness. Adored husband of Laura. Devoted father of Jonathan Dolger and Judith Widmann. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Kenneth Widmann and Emily Widmann McBurney. Loving father-in-law of Jane Isay Dolger and Roger M. Widmann. Dear brother of William Dolger and Vera Rosen. Friends may call Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Thursday 7-9 P.M. Services Friday, Dec. 5, 9:30 AM, Temple Israel, 112 East 75 St, NYC. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to the Henry Dolger Endowment Fund, Department of Endocrinology, Box 1055, Mount Sinai Hospital, 1 Gustave Levy Place, NYC 10029.
        DOLGER-Henry, M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our cherished friend and esteemed colleague, Henry Dolger, M.D., Clinical Professor of Medicine Emeritus, whose association with Mount Sinai spanned more than six decades. Internationally renowned as a pioneer in the development of our understanding of diabetes melitus, Dr. Dolger revolutionized the field with his focus on finding the cause of the disease. He was among the first to recognize that insulin was not a cure, but only a means of relieving the symptoms, pointing the way to research which could account for the disorder. He also was a trailblazer in identifying diabetes as a cause of retinal damage and blindness, as well as an early investigator of drugs that reduce the level of glucose in the blood. He authored forty publications on diabetes including the patient guide, ''How to Live with Diabetes,'' which has appeared in numerous editions and languages around the world, and, in collaboration with three colleagues, the first edition of the standard medical textbook, ''Diseases of the Endocrine Glands.'' With his insight as a researcher matched by his gift for teaching and inspiring medical students, as well as vast clinical skill and deep compassion for patients, Dr. Dolger served for more than two decades as Chief of the Mount Sinai Diabetes Clinic, which became one of the largest and most prominent centers in the world under his leadership, and he was Founder and Chief for twenty years of the Mount Sinai Diabetes Prenatal Clinic, the first of its kind in New York. He also was instrumental in the establishment of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, and he served as President of the New York Diabetes Society. In recognition of his singular achievements, Dr. Dolger in 1975 was awarded the Jacobi Medallion, the highest honor of the Mount Sinai Alumni. He will be remembered fondly for his dedication, kindness and wisdom, and he will be sorely missed. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Laura, daughter, Judith Widmann, son, Jonathan, to his grandchildren, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Wendy Z. Goldstein, Director Alan L. Schiller, MD, President, Medical Board
        DOLGER-Henry, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni records with sorrow the loss of their long time colleague and cherished friend. Under Dr. Dolger's leadership, the Mount Sinai Diabetes Clinic became one of the largest and most prominent centers for diabetes care in the world. Founder and Chief of the Diabetes Prenatal Clinic (1952-1972) and founding father of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, he was a consummate educator who brought intellect, wisdom, great clinical skills, vast expertise and personal integrity to the task of training young physicians. His brilliance as a teacher and physician made him a favorite of residents, students and staff, and a role model to all because of his excellence as a physician as well as his extraordinary kindness and compassion as a wonderful human being. Not only in the forefront of diabetes research, he was primarily and especially a personal doctor to all his patients throughout the world, who not only respected him, but loved him. The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Dolger in 1975 in acknowledgement of his profound professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the hospital. Mount Sinai has lost one of its giants, but his memory will survive amoung his colleagues and students. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, Laura, his children and grandchildren. Wayne S. Fuchs, M.D., President Avi Barbasch, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D, Secretary William G. Stein, M.D., Treasurer
        DOLGER-Henry, M.D. The Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine and the Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the loss of our distinguished friend and colleague, Dr. Henry Dolger, Clinical Professor of Medicine (Emeritus). Dr. Dolger began his career at Mount Sinai as a house physician in 1933, became Chief of the Mount Sinai Diabetes Clinic in 1942 and established it as one of the largest and most prominent centers in the world at that time. This in turn led to the establishment, in 1952, of the first clinic in New York to care exclusively for pregnant diabetic patients. Dr. Dolger was one of the first to realize and report that insulin was not a true cure for diabetes and conducted some of the earliest clinical trials of all hypoglycemic agents. Henry Dolger was the consummate physician, adored by his patients, a master raconteur and a friend and colleague of many of our faculty for many years. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Laura, their children, Jonathan and Judith (Widmann), and the entire Dolger family. Barry S. Coller, Chairman, Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine Terry F. Davies, Director, Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism Chairman Samuel Bronfman, Department of Medicine Mount Sinai Medical Center
        DOLGER-Henry, Dr. The Medical Staff of the Mount Sinai Diabetes Clinic deeply mourns the loss of its distinguished former Chief, Dr. Henry Dolger. During his tenure of over forty years, the Clinic became one of the largest and most respected centers for the care of diabetic patients and the training of physicians to minister to them. Dr. Dolger's devotion and dedication to his patients and his enthusiasm for teaching his colleagues and students were legendary. He founded the first special clinic in New York City for the management of diabetes during pregnancy and was an early pioneer in the study of oral agents for treating diabetes. His book ''How to Live With Diabetes'' was for many years a leading guide for the diabetic patient and his family. Thousands of patients and physicians have been the beneficiaries of his wisdom and compassion and we who were privileged to work with him are proud and grateful to have known him. Our warmest condolences to his beloved Laura, to Judy and Jonathan, and to all the Dolger family.
        DOLGER-Henry, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our esteemed and distinguished colleague. Dr. Dolger was one of the outstanding Diabetologists of his generation, making valuable clinical observations that enhanced our understanding and optimized our treatment of diabetic patients. Beyond that, he was a renaissance gentleman with extensive knowledge in many areas beyond medicine. We will miss his elegance, generosity, and dedication to his patients and Mount Sinai. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Laura, his children and to the entire family. Peter H. Rubin, M.D., President Lynda Mandell, M.D., Secretary Amy J. Weinstein, Administrator
        DOLGER-Henry, M.D. The Board of Directors and members of the New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation records with profound sorrow the passing of Henry Dolger, M.D., a founding member of JDFI's Medical Advisory Board and a current member of the New York Chapter Medical Advisory Board. This was a man who never stopped giving of himself to all of those who needed his wisdom, kindness and caring. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Laura, and his entire family. Robert B. Obernier, President
        DOLGER-Henry, M.D. The Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International mourns the passing of one of its ''Founding Fathers,'' Dr. Henry Dolger, physician, professor and author. Dr. Dolger was a man of vision, compassion and empathy for each and every one of his patients. He will long be remembered and forever missed. The Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International Board, Volunteers, and Staff.
        DOLGER-Henry, Dr. Teacher, mentor, advisor, role-model, inspiration, colleague and friend. You will always be with us. Jill and Charles Nechemias
      