
        FABIAN-Tibor. On December 6, 1997. President of Mathematica, Inc., in Princeton, NJ from 1961 to 1983, former President and Chairman of the Board of the Hospital for Joint Diseases in Manhattan, and board member and management consultant for several commercial, health-related, and investment firms. He was a founding member of the Charles Babbage Foundation, Morgenstern-Fabian Foundation, and Corvina Foundation. Dr. Fabian is survived by his wife, Dr. Dorothy R. Fabian and their sons, Timothy of Pittsburgh and Jonathan of New York, and their families, and his sister, Mrs. Magda Mark of Budapest, Hungary. Service Wednesday, December 10, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Fabian Prize, the Hospital for Joint Diseases, or the Friends of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
        FABIAN-Tibor, Ph.D. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute and the Officers of the HJD Research & Development Foundation mourn the passing of Dr. Tibor Fabian, distinguished Honorary Presdient and Chairman of the Board. Dr. Fabian was a committed friend and loyal benfator of the hospital. With great foresight, together with his devoted wife Dorothy, he established the Drs. Dorothy and Tibor Fabien Prize Award in 1983. This award, presented annually to an academic member of the hospital for the most outstanding and innovatative reserach publicatoin, continues to stimulate the excellent research work accomplished at HJD. Dr. Fabian has left an indelible mark on the hospital through his encouragement and philanthropic support of our major initiatives. He will be sadly missed. We extend our condolences to his wife Dorothy, his sons Timothy and Jonathan, and to the entire family. William A. Perlmuth Chairman of the Board George M. Jaffin Honorary Chairman R & D Foundation Victor H. Frankel, MD President John N. Kastanis, FACHE Chief Executive Officer Joseph D. Zuckerman, MD Surgeon-In-Chief
      