
        TRAINER-John. Trainer, Wortham & Company mourns the passing of our colleague John N. Trainer. Former Chairman of the Board of Trainer, Wortham, prominent member of the financial community of New York and active in civic affairs for fifty years, died on November 30 after a short illness at the Pomperaug Woods Health Center, Southbury, Conn. He was born in New York City, where he attended Horace Mann and Allen Stevenson Schools. He prepared at Phillips Exeter Academy and graduated from Harvard College in 1931. He joined the firm of Trainer and Associates, second oldest investment counseling firm in the United States and became president of Trainer, Wortham & Co., Inc., in 1954. In World War II Mr. Trainer was on active duty from 1941 to 1945 and retired as Commander in the U.S. Naval Reserve in 1951. He was a resident of Mount Kisco for fifty years, where he was board member of the Northern Westchester Hospital & the Boys Club. He was significantly involved in the major expansion of both institutions and received national recognition of the Boys Club of America. He was President of the Metropolitan Squash Racquets Association of New York and member of the Jesters Club, the Racquet and Tennis Club and Harvard Club of New York City, also the Wianno Yacht Club and the Cruising Club of America. He had a lifelong interest in sailing and was active in the formation of the Sea Education Association, which offers young people seafaring and ocean science programs. After his retirement, Mr. Trainer resided in Southbury, Conn., and Pubnico, Nova Scotia. He is survived by his wife, Alice (Stone) and two sons, John N. Trainer of Nashville, TN., and Edward S. Trainer of Evanston, IL, and by five grandchildren: David Browning, John N. III, Matthew Stone, John Booth & Kirsten Brooke and by his brother Robert Browning Trainer of New York. Memorial services will be held Thursday, December 4, at 1:00 P.M., St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Main Street South, Woodbury, CT. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to the Boys & Girls Club of Northern Westchester, 351 Main Street, Mount Kisco, New York 10549 or to the Sea Education Association, PO Box 6, Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543.
      