
        FABIAN-Tibor, Ph.D. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute and the Officers of the HJD Research & Development Foundation mourn the passing of Dr. Tibor Fabian, distinguished Honorary President and Chairman of the Board. Dr. Fabian was a committed friend and loyal benefactor of the hospital. With great foresight, together with his devoted wife Dorothy, he established the Drs. Dorothy and Tibor Fabian Prize Award in 1983. This award, presented annually to an academic member of the hospital for the most outstanding and innovative research publication, continues to stimulate the excellent research work accomplished at HJD. Dr. Fabian has left an indelible mark on the hospital through his encouragement and philanthropic support of our major initiatives. He will be sadly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Dorothy, his sons Timothy and Jonathan, and to the entire family. William A. Perlmuth Chairman of the Board George M. Jaffin Honorary Chairman R & D Foundation Victor H. Frankel, MD President John N. Kastanis, FACHE Chief Executive Officer Joseph D. Zuckerman, MD Surgeon-In-Chief
        FABIAN-Tibor. The American Friends of the Hebrew University is deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Tibor Fabian, a commited friend and loyal benefactor of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. A founder of the Morgenstern-Fabian Foundation, he generously supported The University's activities for scientists from the former Soviet Union. Israel and its Universities have been greatly enriched by the arrival of these scientists who have made important contributions to the advancement of israel and to world knowledge. We owe a great debt to Dr. Fabian, whose vision and generosity have meant so much to Hebrew University. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Dr. Dorothy R. Fabian, theirs sons, Timothy and Jonathan, and to the entire family. Keith L. Sachs, President Lawrence Newman, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        FABIAN-Tibor. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University is profoundly saddened by the passing of Tibor Fabian. We will always remember his great warmth and wise guidance. His generous donation to Tel Aviv University, made through the MorgensternFabian Foundation, has enabled generations of Russian Students to obtain higher education. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University Bernard Rapoport, Chairman, Board of Directors Melvin S. Taub, Chairman Emeritus Robert J. Topchik, President Jules Love, Executive V.P.
        FABIAN-Tibor, Ph.D. We note with profound sadness the passing of Dr. Tibor Fabian, Honorary President and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of The Hospital for Joint Disease Orthopaedic Institute. Dr. Fabian was a true champion of volunteerism. We shall miss his wise counsel and generous support. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Dorothy and to his sons. Virginia Samuels, Chairperson HJD Auxiliary
        FABIAN-Tibor. We express our deepest sympathies to the family of Tibor Fabian. We will miss his presence and participation at Third Avenue Funds as a Trustee. Tibor was a dear friend and wise counselor to each of us. The Board of Trustees of Third Avenue Funds
      