
        BATKIN-Ruth. We have lost a beloved and devoted friend. She will be sorely missed. Our sincerest sympathies to Sandy, Helen, Marc and David. Sylvia and Bob, Ellen and Moshe
        BATKIN-Ruth. The Board of Directors of the American Friends of David Yellin Teachers College deeply mourn the death of our beloved Board member, Ruth Batkin, who served with distinction and dedication for more than 20 years. Ruth exemplified her name, for like the Biblical Ruth, she ''shared her good fortune''. Ruth gave of herself in friendship and loving kindness to her family, friends, the people of Israel as well as to many eleemosynary organizations. Ruth of the Bible came from a Royal line and was a Moabite Princess. Our Ruth was regal & had the attributes of a Princess. Biblical Ruth was the Grandmother of King David and our Ruth, was the Grandmother of David Younger. We extend our deepest sympathies to her husband and Honorary Chairman of our Board, Sanford Batkin, her daughter Helen, her son-in-law Marc Younger, her grandson David, her sister Elaine Rosenberg and her entire family. Ruth Batkin, a Noble Lady and tireless benefactor to David Yellin Teachers College in Israel, lives in our hearts and memories forever. In lieu of flowers donations can be made to The Ruth Batkin Memorial Scholarship Fund in C/O AFDYTC, 25 W. 45th Street, Suite 1405, NYC 10036.
        BATKIN-Ruth. The Board of Governors, administration, faculty, staff and students of the David Yellin Teachers College in Jerusalem, Israel, deeply mourn the untimely passing of Ruth Batkin who was a tireless supporter and benefactor of the college. Ruth, a woman of exceptional vision and grace, will be deeply missed by all who knew her. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Sanford, her daughter Helen, son-in-law Marc Younger, her grandson David, her sister Elaine Rosenberg and the rest of her family. ''May her memory be a blessing as she was during her lifetime.''
        BATKIN-Ruth. We mourn the passing of our dear friend Ruth. We all knew her for many, many years and we will never forget her caring, loving and generosity. Her memory will always be cherished. We thank her for all she has given of herself to everyone. We will deeply miss her. Paul and Gloria Younger and Family
      