
        ALDRICH-Duane C., 54. A nationally respected lawyer in the field of labor and management relations and a leading member of the law firm, Kilpatrick Stockton LLP died on December 27, 1997, in Atlanta, after a brief illness. A partner in the Kilpatrick & Cody law firm since 1973, Mr. Aldrich had begun his practice there upon graduation from law school in 1968. Mr. Aldrich had chaired the firm's Labor Section for more than 20 years, expanding its practice throughout the United States. He was known for his insight into the most difficult and challenging issues of federal labor and employment laws. At the time of his death, he was also a member of Kilpatrick Stockton's Executive Committee. Mr. Aldrich was born on March 10, 1943 at Fort Bragg, NC, grew up in Wellsley, MA and graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1961, from Harvard College in 1965 (AB magnum cum laude) and from the Harvard Law School in 1968 (LLB). At the time of his death, he was serving on the American Bar Association Committee for Practice and Procedure under the National Labor Relations Act, and its Committee for Equal Employment Opportunity Law. He had authored numerous articles published in professional journals, had spoken at numerous seminars on labor relations and had served as program director for the Southeastern Labor Law Institute. He was a member of The Capital City Club, and The Harvard Club, and was active in the Exeter Alumni Association. His law partners describe him as an exceptional lawyer, a scholar, a pragmatist, a people's person, and a leader with a strong hand and a deep reservoir of warmth and kindness. Business leaders, professional colleagues, friends and family members turned to him for assistance in dealing with crises of all kinds. He was trusted and he was loved by family and friends. Surviving are his wife Rebecca Day Aldrich, three daughters, Jessamine Shaw Aldrich of Santa Monica, CA, Abigail Suzanne Aldrich and Elizabeth Peyton Aldrich, both of Atlanta, his mother Mrs. Elizabeth Cannon Aldrich of Cambridge, MA and eight siblings: Peter C. Aldrich of Cambridge, MA, Mrs. Elizabeth Aldrich Kaspar of Provence, France and Geneva, Switzerland, John C. Aldrich of Winchester, MA, Mrs. Ann Aldrich Hechtman of Dallas, TX., Stephen C. Aldrich of Arlington, MA., Mrs. Amy Aldrich Geogan of Norwell, MA, Mark C. Aldrich of Carlisle, PA and San Sebastian, Spain and Mrs. Sarah Aldrich Murray of Deerfield, MA. Funeral services will be held on Tuesday, December 30, 1997 at 2:00 p.m. at The Cathedral of Christ the King, in Atlanta, Georgia. The interment will be at Arlington Cemetery in Sandy Springs, GA. Friends may make donations to the Duane Aldrich Memorial Fund of The Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, New Hampshire.
      