
        ROBBINS-Charles Francis, C.F.A. of Llewellyn Park, West Orange, NJ, died in St. Barnabas Medical Center, Livingston, NJ, Thursday, Dec. 18, 1997. He was 76 years old. Mr. Robbins was the great-grandson of A.G. Spalding, baseball pitcher and founder of the athletic goods company, and son of Charles Francis Robbins, Chairman of A.G. Spalding Brothers. He was born in East Orange and was a lifelong resident of Llewellyn Park, West Orange. Mr. Robbins was Senior Vice President of I.B.J. Schroder Bank & Trust Company, New York, NY until he retired in 1990. Prior to that he was for 30 years a Vice President at the Marine Midland Bank in New York, NY and in the Trust Department of the Grace National Bank. He was goalie and captain of the hockey team at The Hotchkiss School in 1940. He graduated in the Class of 1944 at Yale University where he was an undergraduate member of Elihu, captain of the hockey team and majored in history. He served in the Marine Corps in World War II, was a Trustee of Llewellyn Park, The Metropolitan Y.M.C.A. of the Oranges, an Elder of the First Presbyterian Church in Orange (NJ), Honorary member of Orange Lawn Tennis Club and a member of Rock Spring Golf Club. Mr. Robbins was President of the Orange Orphan Society from 1987-1997, and directed the M.E.N.D. Pantry, giving thousands of bags of groceries to the needy. He was a trustee of The Morristown-Baird School from 1959-1970, and for thirty years a Director of World Impact, Newark. Mr. Robbins was a longtime Public Member of The New Jersey Insurance Underwriters Association in Newark. He was the husband of Margaret MacIlvaine Robbins, father of Reta Robbins (Schacht) M.D., Rev. Charles F. Robbins, Virginia Robbins (Lennan) M.B.A., Keith Spalding Robbins, M.S., M.S., Thomas Scott Robbins, C.F.P., Ch.F.C., brother of William Brown Robbins and Walter Spalding Robbins, and survived by nine grandchildren. Memorial Service in The First Presbyterian Church of Orange, Main Street at Scotland Road, Orange, NJ (973) 678-1719 on Saturday, January 10, 1998 at 11 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations to The Metropolitan Y.M.C.A. of the Oranges, 23 Babcock Place, West Orange, NJ 07052 would be appreciated. The Farmer Funeral Home, Roseland, NJ.
        ROBBINS-Charles Francis. Of Llewellyn Park, New Jersey, December 18, 1997. Husband of Margaret MacIlvaine Robbins. Father of Reta Robbins Schacht, MD., Charles F. Robbins, Virginia Robbins Lennan, Keith Spalding Robbins & Thomas Scott Robbins. A brother of William Brown Robbins and Walter Spalding Robbins. Seven grandchildren, two stepgrandchildren. Memorial service in The First Presbyterian Church of Orange, Main street at Scotland Road, Orange, NJ. 973-678-1719 on Saturday, January 10, 1998 at 11AM. In lieu of flowers donations to The Metropolitan YMCA of the Oranges, 23 Babcock Place, West Orange, New Jersey 07052 would be appreciated.
      