
        OTT-David. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague David Ott, Vice President, Ambulatory Operations, The Mount Sinai Hospital. David joined Mount Sinai in 1993 following five years as a senior administrator at The Brooklyn Hospital Center and played a pivotal role in reorganizing and revitalizing outpatient programs and services. A respected expert in healthcare administration, his earlier career included positions at the United Hospital Fund, the Hospital Research and Education Trust, the National Academy of Sciences, and the National Institutes of Health. He was a member of numerous health policy advisory committees and served as chairman of the Planning Committee of the Health Research Symposium of the Greater New York Hospital Association for the past eight years, and as a member of the Health Decisions USA National Advisory Council of the National Health Council for the past decade. Beloved as much for his personal warmth as he was admired for his professional expertise, he will be remembered most fondly for his compassion and dedication, and he will be sorely missed. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Carol, to his daughters, Haley and Leslie, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Wendy Z. Goldstein, Director
        OTT-David. The administrative staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital is deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved friend and colleague David Ott, Vice President of Ambulatory Operations, with whom it was our privilege to work for the past five years. Widely recognized for his unique knowledge of healthcare administration, David's insights were a vital contribution to the development of Mount Sinai's ambulatory practices and outpatient programs. Equally important was his caring and kindness. He was a man of eloquence, warmth, compassion and much good humor. And, he was a wonderful friend whom we all shall miss dearly. We offer our deepest sympathy to his wife Carol, to his daughters Haley and Leslie, and to the entire family. Wendy Z. Goldstein, Senior Vice President and Director Joel Seligman, Vice President, Inpatient Operations Thomas Smith, M.S., R.N., Vice President, Nursing Candace Kaufman, Vice President, Quality Initiatives Phyllis Schnepf, Vice President, Core Services
        OTT-David R. The faculty of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the tragic and premature loss of our dear friend and colleague, Mr. David R. Ott. David was a brilliant and innovative medical administrator, who devoted his career to improving the quality and efficiency of medical care for all patients, establishing the highest possible single standard of care. A scholar himself, he was equally committed to medical education and scholarship. We will dearly miss his vision and creativity, and most especially, his commitment to helping the medically underserved. We extend our condolences to his wife, Carol, his children Leslie and Haley, and his entire family. Barry S. Coller, M.D., Chairman Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine Mount Sinai Medical Center
        OTT-David R. The Board of Directors and Staff of United Hospital Fund are deeply saddened by the loss of a good friend, former Vice President and Executive Director, and creative force to improve health care in New York City. Known for his vision, keen intellect, strong values, and sense of humor, David pioneered the development of the Fund's Patient Origin Information System in the 1980's which paved the way for New York City hospitals to better understand and respond to community health needs. His enormous energy and contributions will benefit generations of New Yorkers. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Carol and two children, and to his parents and brother. Howard Smith, Chairman James R. Tallon, Jr., President
        OTT-David. The Mount Sinai Medical Center Department of Community Medicine, Division of Social Work notes with profound sadness the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague, David Ott, whose expertise and insights made an invaluable and lasting contribution to our ambulatory care planning. We extend our sincerest sympathy to his wife Carol, to his daughters Haley and Leslie, and to the entire family. Gary Rosenberg, PhD, Edith J. Baerwald, Professor of Community Medicine
      