
        OTT-David R. The faculty of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the tragic and premature loss of our dear friend and colleague, Mr. David R. Ott. David was a brilliant and innovative medical administrator, who devoted his career to improving the quality and efficiency of medical care for all patients, establishing the highest possible single standard of care. A scholar himself, he was equally committed to medical education and scholarship. We will dearly miss his vision and creativity, and most especially, his commitment to helping the medically underserved. We extend our condolences to his wife, Carol, his children Leslie and Haley, and his entire family. Barry S. Coller, M.D., Chairman Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine Mount Sinai Medical Center
        OTT-David. The Board of Governors, members and staff of Greater New York Hospital Association deeply regret the passing of David Ott, Vice President, Ambulatory Operations, The Mount Sinai Hospital. David's style, grace, wit and charm were admired by many, and his brilliant analytical capabilities provided new perspectives on a variety of problems in the health care sector. Throughout the course of his distinguished career, David was a tireless and dedicated leader in the New York health care community. He will be greatly missed. We extend our most sincere condolences to his family and friends. Barry R. Freedman, Chairman Kenneth E. Raske, President Greater New York Hospital Assn.
        OTT-David R. The Brooklyn Hospital Center extends its deepest sympathies to the family of David R. Ott, who was our respected colleague and good friend. David began his decade-long tenure at the hospital center as Executive Director and later was named Executive Director of the Brooklyn Hospital Center Foundation. David will be fondly remembered by all for his leadership and intelligence. Seth S. Faison, Chairman Board of Trustees Mrs. George M. Billings Chairman Emeritus Frederick D. Alley President and CEO The Brooklyn Hospital Center
        OTT-David. The Staff of the Division of Core Services of the Mount Sinai Hospital is deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and colleague David Ott. We will sorely miss his extraordinary vision, his unique humor and his incredible smile so full of mischief and fun. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Carol to his daughters Haley and Leslie and to his entire family. Phyllis Schnepf, Vice President Core Services
        OTT-David. This department has lost a loyal friend with extraordinary vision and brilliant intellect. We deeply mourn his premature passing from cancer. Department of Pathology The Mt. Sinai Hospital
      