
        BECKER-Marion (Mimi) Zimmerman Davis. A founding member of the United Choral Society of Nassau County and the Friday Woodmere Music Club of Woodmere, New York, both of which honored her this past year. She died in her 93rd year, December 9, 1997 - at 3030 Park Health Center, Bridgeport, CT. Born October 4, 1904 at home in Manhattan to Rebecca and Maurice Zimmerman, she graduated with high honors from Hunter High School in 1922, attended Columbia College, and directed advertising and public relations for the I. Miller Shoe Company and Van Cannell Elevators. She was married to Charles Davis, a member of the New York Stock Exchange, from 1931 until his death in 1967. Her second husband, Irving Becker, died in 1980. She is survived by a daughter, Rosalind Davis Friedman, and her husband, Arthur, of Trumbull, Connecticut, three grandsons, Roger Friedman and Mark Friedman, both of New York City, Paul Friedman and his wife, Lori, of Alexandria, Virginia, a son, Arthur Davis of Manhattan, a brother, Walter Zimmerman and his wife, Verena, of Winter Park, Florida and many nieces and nephews. She was predeceased by a brother, Leonard Zimmerman. A resident of Woodmere for fifty years, she participated in many community activities and was a member of Temple Beth El, Cedarhurst. She retired in 1991 to Connecticut. In the early 1960s, she helped to create the Woodmere Music Club's Young Artists Competition, which gives prizes for excellence in piano, woodwinds, voice and strings biannually to classical music students between the ages of 14 and 18. As well as receiving cash prizes, winners of the contest perform on WQXR and in a concert held in Hewlett, Long Island. Past winners include Andrew Litton, conductor of the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, Stephen Masi, Andrew Armstrong, youngest winner of the Van Cliburn Competition, and Jeffrey Biegel. Despite many illnesses, she remained sparkling and vivacious, following with interest and pride her family's and friend's daily plans. Beloved by all, she will be irreplaceable. Services will take place on Thursday at 11:00 A.M., from the Abraham L. Green and Son Funeral Home, 88 Beach Road, Fairfield, CT., with interment following at Mt. Hebron Cemetery in Flushing, New York. Donations in her name to the Friday Woodmere Music Club Young Artists Competition; The United Choral Society; Hospice-At-Home; BPT; Hadassah, or Congregation B'Nai Torah, Trumbull, would be greatly appreciated.
      