
        OTT-David. Vice President, Ambulatory Services, Mount Sinai Hospital. The staff of the Adolescent Health Center expresses deep sorrow at the passing of our friend and colleague, David Ott. David was a visionary leader dedicated to assuring community access to high quality, comprehensive ambulatory health services for New York's poor adolescents. He challenged us to design creative and innovative new approaches, and supported our efforts to serve inner city teens in a holistic and caring manner. He brought an active and keen intellect to the challenges that our patient population can make to traditional health services. He also brought a wry and gentle humor. Working with him was always stimulating, challenging and enjoyable. David Ott was a very special person. We will miss him greatly. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Carol and his children Haley and Leslie. Angela Diaz Ken Peake Susan Grossman and the staff of the Mt. Sinai Adolescent Health Center
        OTT-David. The staff of the Managed Care Department of the Mount Sinai Hospital are deeply saddened by the loss of David Ott, a respected colleague and friend. David's vast knowledge and insights into the changing health care system were invaluable and his contributions will be lasting. His commitment to making the highest quality of health care available to all patients was inspiring to all. David's warmth, wit and generous counsel will be greatly missed. We offer our deepest sympathy to David's wife, Carol, his daughters, Haley and Leslie, and his entire family. Suzanne Nutt, Vice President Managed Care The Mount Sinai Hospital
        OTT-David R. We mourn the passing of our colleague, partner, and loyal friend, David R. Ott. Vision-maker, adventurer, steward, and creator, David advocated with wisdom and determination for improvements in the delivery of care to patients and families. We extend our deepest sympathy and affection to his wife Carol, to his daughters Haley and Leslie, and to the entire family. Thomas Smith, R.N. Vice President for Nursing, on behalf of The Mount Sinai Hospital communiity of nurses and home care professionals
      