
        BATKIN-Ruth L. On December 1, 1997. Beloved wife of Sanford (Sandy). Loving mother of Helen Younger and her husband Marc. Devoted grandmother of David Younger. Loving sister of Elaine Rosenberg. Dearly loved by her family and many, many friends, Ruth was a truly compassionate woman who touched hundreds of lives with her warmth and generosity. Beloved for her caring spirit and respected for her sharp intelligence, Ruth was always there when you needed her. She was dedicated to her family and loyal to her friends. She will be missed greately. Services at 12:30 PM, Wednesday, December 3, at BethEl Synagogue, Northfield Road at North Avenue, New Rochelle, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the American Friends of David Yellin Teachers College, 25 West 45th Street, New York, NY 10036
        BATKIN-Ruth. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ruth Batkin, a long-standing and beloved leader in the Westchester Women's Campaign. Ruth served as chair of the New Rochelle Women's Campaign as well as Major Gifts Chair of the Westchester Women's Campaign. Her love of Israel and compassion for those less fortunate were unparalleled. We extend our deepest sympathies to her husband, Sanford, a past board member of UJA-Federation, and the entire family. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Joan Ginsburg, Chair Westchester Women's Campaign Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        BATKIN-Ruth. Beth El Synagogue of New Rochelle records with sorrow the passing of our dear member, beloved wife of esteemed Synagogue leader and Honorary Trustee, Sanford Batkin. Heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Dorothy Fox, President Melvin N. Sirner, Rabbi
        BATKIN-Ruth. We mourn the sudden loss of our beloved cousin, devoted wife of Sanford and mother of Helen and Marc Younger. Michael Tenzer Family Circle
        BATKIN-Ruth. Dear Ruth, you have left us much too soon. To know you was to love you. We will miss you terribly. Naomi and Irving Raber
      