
        DOLGER-Henry, M.D. On Dec. 3, 1997 after a long illness. Adored husband of Laura. Devoted father of Jonathan Dolger and Judith Widmann. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Kenneth Widmann and Emily Widmann McBurney. Loving father-in-law of Jane Isay Dolger and Roger M. Widmann. Dear brother of William Dolger and Vera Rosen. Friends may call Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Thursday 7-9 P.M. Services Friday, Dec. 5, 9:30 AM, Temple Israel, 112 East 75 St, NYC. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to the Henry Dolger Endowment Fund, Department of Endocrinology, Box 1055, Mount Sinai Hospital, 1 Gustave Levy Place, NYC 10029.
        DOLGER-Henry, Dr. The Medical Staff of the Mount Sinai Diabetes Clinic deeply mourns the loss of its distinguished former Chief, Dr. Henry Dolger. During his tenure of over forty years, the Clinic became one of the largest and most respected centers for the care of diabetic patients and the training of physicians to minister to them. Dr. Dolger's devotion and dedication to his patients and his enthusiasm for teaching his colleagues and students were legendary. He founded the first special clinic in New York City for the management of diabetes during pregnancy and was an early pioneer in the study of oral agents for treating diabetes. His book ''How to Live With Diabetes'' was for many years a leading guide for the diabetic patient and his family. Thousands of patients and physicians have been the beneficiaries of his wisdom and compassion and we who were privileged to work with him are proud and grateful to have known him. Our warmest condolences to his beloved Laura, to Judy and Jonathan, and to all the Dolger family.
        DOLGER-Henry, MD. Gladly would he learn and gladly teach. To my chief for twenty-five years whose love of medicine and of his patients shall always be an inspiration. I extend my deepest sympathy to his family. Stanley Mirsky, M.D.
        DOLGER-Henry, Dr. Teacher, mentor, advisor, role-model, inspiration, colleague and friend. You will always be with us. Jill and Charles Nechemias
      