
        WILCHEK-Stella. On December 3, 1997. Beloved wife of the late William Wilchek. Loving sister of William Kullman. Compassionate and committed friend. Many had the benefit of her uncompromising love, wisdom and teaching. She was an active participant in the causes she held dear and the lives of many. Services Friday, 12 P.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        WILCHEK-Stella. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with deep sadness the passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Stella Wilchek. Over the years Ms. Wilchek generously supported the work of our Jacob Perlow Hospice through the establishment of the William Z. Wilchek Home Care Fund, named in honor of her late husband, and encouraged others to follow her example. Her caring and kindness touched the lives of hundreds of hospice patients and their families. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family and friends. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President Paul E. Brenner, Executive Director, Jacob Perlow Hospice
        WILHELM-Rowland Otto. Succumbed to severe emphysema on Tuesday, December 2, 1997 at 5:27 PM. of Tenafly N.J. Beloved husband of Mary T., adored father of Rowland, Jr. & Mary-Margaret, father-in-law of Scott Callahan, beloved brother of Bertha E. Rahmig, uncle of 7 nieces, 2 nephews & 12 grand-nieces & nephews. Graduated from the School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University 1950 & from New York University Graduate School of Business in 1956. After graduation from Georgetown, he was engaged in all areas of Investment & Economic Research. During World War II, serving on the LST 392, he was in both the Atlantic & Pacific theaters. June 6, 1944 ''D'' Day, the LST 392 was in the first wave to hit Normandy Beach. He was 17. He was a member in good standing of the New York Society of Security Analysts & retired from Madison Fund as Senior Vice-President in 1977 to continue his career as a Private Invester. Friends may call at the Barrett Funeral Home, 148 Dean Drive, Tenafly, NJ on Thursday 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass Friday 10 AM, Mt. Carmel Church, Tenafly, NJ. Interment Mt. Pleasant Cemetery, Mt. Pleasant, NJ.
      