
        TRAINER-John N. Of Southbury, Connecticut and Pubnico, Nova Scotia. Died Novemeber 30, at The Pomperaug Woods Health Center after a short illness. He is survived by his wife Alice (Stone) and two sons, John N. Trainer, Jr. of Nashville, TN. and Edward S. Trainer of Evanston, Illinois, by five grandchildren: David Browning, John N. III, Matthew Stone, John Booth and Kirsten Brooke and by his brother Robert Browning Trainer of New York. Mr. Trainer was born in NYC where he attended Horace Mann School in Allen Stevenson School. He prepared at Phillips Exeter Academy and graduated from Harvard College in 1931. He joined the Investment Counsel firm of Trainer and Associates in NYC in 1931 and became President when it incorporated into Trainer Wortham and Company, Inc. in 1954. In World War II, Mr. Trainer was on active duty in the Pacific Theater from 1941-1945. He retired as Commander, US Naval Reserve in 1951. Mr. Trainer was a resident of Mount Kisco, New York for 50 years. He was a long time board member of the Northern Westcheter Hospital and of the Boys Club of Mt. Kisco. He was significantly involved in the major expansion of both institutions and received national recognition from the Boys Club of America. He was a member of the Metropolitan Squash Racquet Association of New York and served as its President in 1947. He was also a member of the Jesters Club, the Racquet and Tennis Club and the Harvard Club of New York City. Mr. Trainer had a life-long interest in sailing and was active in the formation of The Sea Education Association which offers to young people Seafaring and Ocean Science programs. He was a member of the Wianno Yacht Club and the Cruising Club of America. Memorial service Thursday, December 4 at 1 P.M., at St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Main Street South, Woodbury, Conn. In lieu of flowers, the family request that donations be made to the Boys and Girls Club of Northern Westchester, 351 Main Street, Mt. Kisco, New York 10549 or to the Sea Education Association, POB 6, Woods Hole, Mass. 02543.
      