
        WRIGHT-Irving Sherwood, M.D. 96, died suddenly at home on December 8, 1997. He was the husband of the late Lois Elliman Wright, father of Barbara Wright Gatje, of New York City, and Alison Wright Cameron, of Bronxville; grandfather of Alexandra Lord Gatje, Douglas Wright Cameron, Marianna Gatje Perrier, Laura Howell Cameron, Margot Kim Gatje, and great-grandfather of Lucas Wright Perrier. He was Emeritus Clinical Professor of Medicine at Cornell University Medical College, and Honorary Attending Physician at the New York Hospital. Dr. Wright was born in New York City on October 27, 1901. He was a direct descendant of Wolphert Gerritsen van Couwenhoven whose family settled in Nieuw Amsterdam in 1630. He was nationally and internationally known for his research and leadership in the fields of cardiovascular disease and geriatrics. He served as President of the American Heart Association, the American College of Physicians, the American Geriatric Society, and in 1979, founded the American Federation for Aging Research (AFAR). In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Irving Sherwood Wright Center on Aging, Department of Medicine, New York Hospital-Cornell University Medical Center, 1300 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021, or to AFAR, 1414 Avenue of the Americas, 18th Floor, New York, New York 10019. Interment will be private. A memorial service will be held at a later date.
        WRIGHT-Irving Sherwood, M.D. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved and esteemed friend and colleague, Dr. Irving Sherwood Wright. A dedicated physician and researcher, Dr. Wright was nationally and internationally known for his leadership in the study of cardiovascular disease and the biomedical aspects of aging. Dr. Wright received his medical degree from Cornell University Medical College in 1926 and was at the time of his death Clinical Professor Emeritus and a member of the Honorary Staff of The New York HospitalCornell Medical Center. In recognition of his outstanding contributions to the study of aging, Cornell University Medical College established the Irving Wright Professorship in 1979, and The New York Hospital established the Irving Sherwood Wright Center on Aging in 1996. Dr. Irving Wright was a man of great spirit and intellect who will be deeply missed by all of us who knew and loved him. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. John T. McGillicuddy Chairman, Board of Governors The New York Hospital David B. Skinner, M.D. President & CEO Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Cornell University Medical College Antonio M. Gotto, Jr., M.D. Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean Cornell University Medical College Ralph L. Nachman, M.D. Chairman, Dept of Medicine The New York HospitalCornell Medical Center Mark Lachs, M.D., M.P.H. Chief, Div. Geriatrics/Gerontology
      