
        ELLIS-Eli. Died peacefully on December 5, 1997 at the age of 81. He was Senior Partner of Hill, Betts & Nash, one of New York's oldest and largest admiralty law firms until 1987 when he became Of Counsel. Beloved husband of Suzanne (nee Harris). Loving father of Judith Ellis, stepfather of Joan Lasker Sobel and John Harris Lasker. Survived by three grandchildren, a sister Eva Ellis Mandel and a brother Kenneth Ellis. The family will receive friends Monday, December 8, from 5-8PM Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to ''Section of Cardiology'', Lenox Hill Hospital, 130 East 77 Street, New York, NY 10021.
        ELLIS-Eli. Beloved father, friend and advisor who passed away on December 5, 1997 at 81. One of the world's foremost authorities on maritime law, Mr. Ellis litigated many of the major maritime cases of the last 50 years. Recipient of many honors for his innumerable contributions to the maritime industry, in 1989 he was awarded the prestigious Orange-Nassau Order for his enormous contributions to the further development and consolidation of the Netherlands position in the United States shipping trade. As a man of utmost integrity, he followed these principles in his business and personal lives. He loved to read and also took enormous pleasure in music and art. He embraced life with passion, wisdom and balance, imparting these qualities to those close to him. For all his support, friendship, love and encouragement he will be very much missed, but leaves behind his quiet legacy of courage and pride. Your loving daughter, Judith
        ELLIS-Eli. The attorneys and staff of Hill, Betts & Nash LLP deeply mourn the passing of our beloved colleague, counsel and former Senior Partner, Eli Ellis, an extraordinary lawyer, husband, father, friend and mentor for so many. He devoted sixty-five years of his life to our firm and he will always be remembered. Our heartfelt sympathy extends to his wife Suzanne, his daughter Judith, and stepchildren Joan and John, his brother Kenneth and sister Eva Ellis Mandel, and grandchildren and to his dearest friends. We will miss his wisdom, integrity, values and devotion to his family, clients and friends.
      