
        HAGHANI-Moosa. Adored father and grandfather, brother, uncle, true friend to many, creative entrepreneur and lion-heart, passed away on the morning of December 26, in London, with his family by his side. He was 84. Born in Teheran, he graduated valedictorian from the American College and began his long and many faceted business career with the Anglo Iranian Oil Company. He made his way to NYC on a long and adventure-filled journey aboard a Dutch trading ship in 1940-41, in the thick of WW II's Pacific Theater. He was amongst the original handful of Iranian immigrants to arrive in NYC and he quickly established various trading and manufacturing businesses during and after the war. He was responsible for bringning his large extended family to America, and was called upon to act as mentor and guardian to hundreds of young students sent to the United States by his friends and family in Teheran. His business later involved bringing many large multi-national corporations to Iran, which helped the country's rapid economic development in the 1960's and '70's. He eventually returned to live in Iran in 1976, and was very proud of the improvement in the standard of living that the country experienced since he left. He then left Iran again during its Revolution and thereafter spent his time between London and NYC. He was a founder of the Iranian Jewish Center in London and a prominent figure in the Iranian Jewish community around the world. He was known to go to extraordinary lengths to help those in need and this won him a special place in the hearts of many. His inherited love of Persian poetry propelled him through life at difficult times, and gave him a fount of wisdom he shared with us all. He lived a full and eventful life. He did much good in his life. He will be deeply and forever missed by his family and friends. He is survived by his daughter Monica, his son Victor, six grandchildren, three sisters and his brother, who all loved him greatly. His funeral will be Tuesday morning at 9 AM, at the Riverside Chapel in Great Neck, and there will be a commemorative ceremony at 4 PM, on Sunday, January 4, at the Park East Synagogue in NYC.
      