
        OSTROFF-Frieda. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of American ORT deeply mourn the passing of our longtime supporter and friend. Frieda Ostroff was a member of American ORT's Board of Directors and Chair, and later Honorary Chair of its Workman's Circle Division. Deeply committed to the Jewish community and Israel, she was the first recipient of American ORT's prestigious William Haber Award for lifetime service in 1983. Her life was a tribute to ORT, for which she worked tirelessly. She will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Harold, and the entire Ostroff family. Paul Borman, President, Murray Koppelman, Chairman of The Board, Alvin L. Gray Honorary President Brian J. Strum, Executive Vice President Paul I. Bernick Executive Director Emeritus
        OSTROFF-Frieda. The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring notes with deep sorrow the death of Frieda Ostroff, a life-long activist and leader. She was the soulmate and helpmate of her husband Harold, former President of our organization. A graduate of our shuln, Frieda was deeply rooted in and committed to our traditions. She was a distinguished member of our National Executive Board and was the immediate past Chairman of its Membership and Organization Committee. Her commitment, voice and wisdom will be sorely missed. All of us in the Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring extend our love and condolences to Harold, their children, grandchildren and great grandchild. Mark Mlotek, President Robert Kaplan, Exec Director
        OSTROFF-Frieda. The editors and staff of the Forward newspapers and the members of the Forward Association extend their deepest sympathy to our chairman and general manager, Harold Ostroff, upon the death of his beloved wife of 54 years, Frieda, devoted mother of Madelon and Sandra and inspirator to all in the Forward family. Frieda's visits to the editorial rooms were always occasions for the sharing of a warm embrace and the imparting of an incisive observation. Through her work at the Workmen's Circle Division of ORT, the Workmen's Circle and the Forward Association, she set an example that will shine for the next generation. Harold, please know that we are thinking of you and your family at this time of grief.
        OSTROFF-Frieda. The Board of Directors and Staff of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourn the loss of Frieda Ostroff, beloved wife of our long-time devoted board member and friend, Harold Ostroff. A devoted wife, mother and grandmother, lover of Yiddish culture and life long supporter of many Jewish causes, including YIVO, Workmen's Circle and the National Yiddish Book Center. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Bruce Slovin, Chairman Tom L. Freudenheim, Executive Director YIVO Institute for Jewish Research
        OSTROFF-Frieda. A life-time commitment to humanity, social democracy and economic progress. She fiercely fought the totalitarian threats of Fascism, Nazism, and Stalinist communism. We shall always cherish her warm, caring friendship. Jewel and Bernie Bellush
        OSTROFF-Frieda. Frieda, our very special friend. We have celebrated so many wonderful times together. We love you, you will always be in our hearts. To Harold, Mattie, Philip and Sandy and all the grandchildren, accept our deepest sympathy and love. Rita and Philip Rosen and family
      