
        OSTROFF-Frieda (nee Pomerantz). On December 1, 1997 at the age of 74. Cherished wife of Harold, beloved mother of Madelon and Philip Braun and Sandra Ostroff. Loving grandmother of Andrew, Kelli and Jessica Braun and Alison and Debra Gottlieb and treasured great-grandmother of Jeffrey Braun. We all had the benefit of her uncompromising love and the wisdom of her teaching. She was an active participant in the causes she held dear and in the lives of so many. Services will be held Wednesday, December 3, 11:15 AM at Riverside Chapel, 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave, NYC. Contributions may be made to Workmen's Circle Division of ORT, 817 Broadway, NYC 10003.
        OSTROFF-Frieda. The officers and members of the Tamiment Institute deeply mourn the death of Frieda Ostroff, beloved wife of our longtime Board member Harold Ostroff. A true Woman of Valor, she gave unstintingly of herself to myriad humanitarian causes, and the genuine warmth she radiated earned the love of all who were privileged to know her. To Harold, and to the entire Ostroff family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Shelley Appleton, President Mitchel Levitas, Vice President Myron Kolatch, Secretary
        OSTROFF-Frieda. The Officers, Directors and Members of Coordinated Housing Services mourn the untimely death of Frieda Ostroff and extend sincere condolences to her dear husband, our esteemed colleague Harold Ostroff and the entire Ostroff family. Saul Mildworm, President David Smith, Executive VP Ed Yaker, Secretary/Treasurer Allen L. Thurgood, Exec Director
        OSTROFF-Frieda. The Board of Directors, Officers and staff of the United Housing Foundation note with sorrow the passing of Frieda Ostroff, beloved wife of our longtime President and friend, Harold Ostroff. We wish to extend our deepest sympathy to Harold, their children, grandchildren and great grandchild upon the occasion of this difficult loss.
        OSTROFF-Frieda. The Members of the Coordinating Counsel of Cooperatives records with sadness the passing of Frieda Ostroff, beloved wife of our co-op colleague Harold Ostroff. Heartfelt sympathy to the family. David Smith, Co-Chair Ed Yaker, Co-Chair Allen L. Thurgood, Exec Director
        OSTROFF-Frieda. Sincerest condolences to our former President, Harold Ostroff upon the passing of his beloved wife. Our hearts go out to the entire family. Board of Directors of Penn South David Smith, Chairman, Robert Silverstein, President
        OSTROFF-Frieda. The Boards of Director and Cooperators of Hillman Housing, East River Housing and Seward Park Housing express their deep sympathy to Harold Ostroff and his family on the loss of his wife, Frieda Ostroff.
      