
        ROBBINS-Burton E. December 2, 1997. Beloved husband of Lucy. Loving father of Dianne (Richard) Cohen, Joan Robbins, Stefanie (John) Whalen and Penny Cutler. Adored grandfather of Missi (Chuck) Wolf, Ali (Darin) Harnell Murphy, Robin (Bruce) Minkoff, Sandi (Frank) Veltri, Sara (Jeffrey) Cohen, Jonathan Cutler and great grandfather of three. Devoted twin brother of Norman A. (Betty) Robbins. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St., Wednesday, December 3 at 1:30PM. Interment to follow at Mt. Pleasant Cemetery. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory to Variety Club International would be appreciated.
        ROBBINS-Burton. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Tuesday, December 2, 1997, He will be missed. Services will be held Wednesday, December 3, 1:30 PM, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel in New York City. Barry Berger, President
        ROBBINS-Burton. The Board of Governors and Members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Burton. On behalf of all our members, we express our deepest condolences to his family. Andrew J. Frankel, President Judith Weil, Secretary
        ROBBINS-Burton E. The Directors and Staff of National Screen Service mourn the loss of our former Chairman, mentor and dear friend. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Lucy, his daughters Diane and Joan, his brother Norman, and to the rest of his family. Peter Koplik, President
        ROBBINS-Burton. The officers and members of Variety Clubs International express profound sorrow at the passing of Burton Robbins, their distinguished colleague and past President. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Lucy and to all his family. We will miss our dear friend Burton.
        ROBBINS-Burton. The Officers and members of Variety-The Children's Charity express sincere sorrow at the passing of Burton Robbins, their distinguished Board member and past President. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Lucy and to his entire family. We will miss Burton, our dear friend.
        ROBBINS-Burton. You were a kind and gentle man, a wise man, and a sincere devoted friend. To have had you in our lives was a privilege and an honor. We will miss you and always reserve your seat at lunch. Good-bye, dear friend. Fred, Susan and George
        ROBBINS-Burton. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member, Burton Robbins. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President
      