
        BARISH-Barbara M., 49. Of Larchmont, NY, on December 24 after a four year battle with metastatic breast cancer. Beloved wife of Stuart. Devoted mother of David and Michael. She also is survived by her mother, Esther Meyer of Scarsdale, and her niece and nephew, Shelley and Brian Barish of Jacksonville, FL. Funeral services Friday, December 26, at 11 AM at the Westchester Jewish Center, Rockland and Palmer Avenues in Mamaroneck. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Barbara Barish Breast Health Service Fund, C/O Zmira Goodman, Development Office, Box 1049, Mount Sinai Medical Center, NY, New York 10029. For information contact Zion Memorial Chapel of Westchester, 914-381-1809.
        BARISH-Barbara. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the premature death of our beloved friend and esteemed colleague, Barbara Barish, Vice President, Academic Administration, Mount Sinai School of Medicine. A graduate of the University of Rochester, with an MBA in Health Care from Bernard Baruch College, Barbara Barish joined Mount Sinai's staff in 1980 as a financial administrator for Support Services, and later served as a special projects coordinator in the Nursing Department, before her appointment as Associate Dean for Operations in 1985, the first administrator to be recruited for the establishment of the Dean's Office of Mount Sinai School of Medicine separate from that of the President's Office. Since that time, she has played a pivotal role in numerous administrative and organizational enhancements that have contributed to the success of the School of Medicine, with broad responsibilities ranging from resource allocation to faculty recruitment and appointments as well as oversight of many school-wide programs, including Ethics In Research and departmental evaluations. Respected for her knowledge and skill, she also was as warm and personable as she was talented, a woman of intellect and wit with whom it was a joy and a privilege to be associated. She will be remembered fondly, and her loss dearly felt. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband, our colleague at Mount Sinai, Stuart, to their sons, Michael and David, to her mother, Esther Meyer, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Wendy Z. Goldstein, Director
        BARISH-Barbara. The staff and faculty of the Graduate School of Biological Sciences at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the passing of Barbara Barish, Associate Dean for Administration of the School of Medicine. This special friend and colleague played essential and challenging roles in the enormous growth of the institutional research and education programs during the past decade. She strongly supported the goals of the Graduate School. She provided guidance and assistance towards realizing them with the same remarkable problem solving skills and administrative integrity that characterized all her work. Barbara Barish's humor, honesty, and warmth gave all of us a fresh perspective on how difficult administrative tasks might be handled by a ''natural pro.'' While we endeavor to learn from her example, we will miss her deeply. Terry Ann Krulwich, Dean of the Graduate School and Sharon and Frederick A. KlingensteinNathan G. Kase Professor C. Gita Bosch, Assistant Dean of the Graduate School
        BARISH-Barbara. The Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the tragic and premature loss of our dear colleague, Barbara Barish, Associate Dean for Operations and Vice-President for Academic Administration. Barbara was a brilliant and creative administrator who always found inventive solutions for complex problems. Always sensitive to the human impact of organizational change, she was a valued partner in the design of the Department's new initiatives and recruitments. We will remember her most for her integrity, collegiality and loyalty to Mount Sinai. We extend our sincerest condolences to her mother, her husband Stuart, her children Michael and David, and her entire family. Barry S. Coller, M.D., Chairman Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine Mount Sinai Medical Center
        BARISH-Barbara. The Mount Sinai Medical Center Department of Community Medicine Division of Social Work and Behavioural Science deeply mourns the passing of our cherished friend and colleague, Barbara Barish, Vice President, Academic Administration, Mount Sinai School of Medicine. An individual of exceptional vision and singular leadership, she made a unique and lasting contribution to the success of our school. She also was a person of uncommon warmth and extraordinary courage who will be missed most profoundly. Gary Rosenberg, PhD, Edith J. Baerwald Professor of Community Medicine Susan Blumenfield, DSW Associate Professor and Director, Social Work Services
        BARISH - Barbara. Associate Dean. All members of the Department of Physiology & Biophysics are profoundly saddened by this untimely loss of a cherished colleague and friend. Her professional talents, her dedication and her integrity enhanced and sustained each of our activities. Her exceptional personality enriched our lives. She will be remembered and honored for her many accomplishments, and will be deeply missed by each of us. Dept. of Physiology & Biophysics Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        BARISH-Barbara. It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of our dear friend and distinguished colleague. Her dedication, devotion and love of Mt. Sinai permeated all of her actions. Warm, generous, and of indomitable spirit, Barbara will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences are extended to her entire family. Alex Stagnaro-Green, MD Dean for Student Affairs and Medical Education
        BARISH-Barbara. This department mourns the loss of a loyal, devoted, brave, upbeat, and energetic friend. In her capacity as Associate Dean of the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, Barbara shared her vision and zeal with us - she made things happen! We will truly miss her and extend to her husband and two sons our sincerest condolences. Department of Pathology Mt. Sinai School of Medicine
        BARISH-Barbara. The faculty and staff of the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine of The Mt. Sinai Medical Center express our deepest sorrow over the death of our friend and colleague, Barbara Barish. We will miss her and send our deepest condolences to her husband, Stuart, and her sons, David and Michael. Kristjan T. Ragnarsson, MD Chairman, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine
        BARISH-Barbara. To our dear friend Barbara. We will miss you dearly. We will miss your quiet humor and sense of adventure, your wisdom and your courage. Our heartfelt condolences to Stuart, David, Michael and Esther. We will be there for you always. The Kents and the Schoenemans
      