
        GILL-Brendan. The Trustees, Trustees Council and staff of the Preservation League of NYS mourn the loss of our esteemed Chairman Emeritus Brendan Gill. We will miss his lively and sharp wit, his steady guidance, and his passion for New York. A great friend of preservation, Mr. Gill was a source of inspiration to all of us. Through his writing, teaching and advocacy, Brendan Gill has left all New Yorkers a tremendous legacy. We will continue to celebrate his life as we work to preserve the very best of New York's architectural heritage. Anne G. Older, Chairman Darlene McCloud, President Preservation League of NYS
        GILL-Brendan. The Trustees and Staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Brendan Gill, a great New Yorker and dear friend of the Whitney Museum. For fifteen years, Brendan served as a Trustee of the Museum, and during that time his energy, wit and wise counsel were essential to the Museum's life. An Honorary Trustee of the Whitney, Brendan was co-chair of the Museum's Library Fellows and an active member of the Whitney National Committee. Along with all who cherish the special qualities that distinguish New York and those who struggle to maintain the unique beauty of this city, we will miss Brendan's fierce intelligence and generous spirit. We extend our heartfelt sympathies and condolences to his loving and devoted wife Anne, to his children and grandchildren. Brendan will be deeply missed by all of us. New York has lost one of its treasures. Flora M. Biddle, Hon. Chairman Leonard A. Lauder, Chairman Gilbert C. Maurer, President David A. Ross, Director
        GILL-Brendan. Our deepest sympathies to his wife Anne and his family of which he was so proud. He was so generous; he could never say no to an individual needing his help nor to a worthy civic cause. He fought all his good fights unstinting of his time and energy. His real monuments are the many valuable institutions and improved built environment he was instrumental in creating. He was our colleague, our mentor-our friend. What we will miss most are the golden hours spent with him and his high intelligence, broad knowledge and loving good humor. Albert Sanders Margot Wellington, former Executive Director of the Municipal Art Society
        GILL-Brendan. The Board of Directors and the staff of the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts are greatly privileged to have worked with Brendan Gill, Chairman of the Board since 1992. We shall miss his guiding hand, his good humor, and his generous spirit. Archibald L. Gillies, President
        GILL-Brendan. The Trustees of The New York Society Library, the librarian and staff of the Library note with great sorrow the death of Brendan Gill, Trustee from 1973 to 1993; a generous supporter of the Library who embodied its spirit and remained a champion of literature.
        GILL-Brendan. The Society for the Preservation of Long Island Antiquities will miss our good friend and longtime trustee. Board of Trustees Richard Gachot, President Robert MacKay, Director
      