
        BERNSTEIN-Irving. The Board, Officers, and Staff at United Israel Appeal, Inc., mourn the passing of our chaver Irving Bernstein. He tirelessly dedicated his life to the reemergence of the State of Israel onto the stage of history. Irving was one of the early leaders who truly brought the Jews of Israel an America together. He worked for and eventually stood at the professional helm of our partner organization, the United Jewish Appeal. He helped to raise massive resources to bring Jews home to Israel through the work of the Jewish Agency for Israel. His invaluable ''blue letters'' helped educate a generation of American Jewish leadership about these noble goals. As the volunteer Chairman of the Communications Committee at United Israel Appeal and the Jewish Agency for Israel he created new ways to help the American Jewish communities to appreciate and support the heroic work of the continuing rescue and aliyah of our people. The Jerusalem Talmud teaches: ''Monuments need not be built for the righteous; their deeds are their memorials.'' Our sincere condolences to his wife Judith. May she and the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jersusalem. Shoshana S. Cardin, Chairman United Israel Appeal, Inc. Rabbi Daniel R. Allen, Executive Vice Chairman, United Israel Appeal, Inc.
        BERNSTEIN-Irving. The Brandeis University community mourns the death of a distinguished Jewish communal leader and a cherished friend. At Brandeis Mr. Irving Bernstein served as a teacher and advisor in our Hornstein Program in Jewish Communal Service. In recognition of his lifetime service to the American Jewish community, the University recently established the Fisher-Bernstein Institute for Leadership Development in Jewish Philanthropy. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Judith; his sons, Robert and Joseph; and his entire family. Jehuda Reinharz, President Melvyn Bloom, Marvin Lender Co-chairs, Fisher-Bernstein Institute Bernard Reisman, Director Fisher-Bernstein Institute
        BERNSTEIN-Irving. The Officers, Trustees and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee express their deep sorrow at the loss of a valued colleague and friend. As a member of the JDC Board and chairman of its Public Information Committee, he not only helped guide JDC's services around the world but also created a better understanding of overseas needs and programs. We extend condolences to his beloved wife, Judy, and family. Jonathan W. Kolker President Michael Schneider Executive Vice President Ambassador Milton A. Wolf Chairman of the Board
        BERNSTEIN-Irving. The Officers, Members of the Board of Directors, and staff of Medical Development for Israel, Inc., together with the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, express their deep sorrow on the passing of Irving Bernstein, a Member of our Board of Directors for many years. He was a cherished and dear friend to all of us. We shall miss his advice, guidance and friendship. Our heartfelt condolences and sympathy are extended to his beloved wife Judy, his children, grandchildren, and other members of the family. H. Irwin Levy, Chairman Arnold Forster, President Shlomit Manson, Nat'l Exec. Dir.
        BERNSTEIN-Irving. The American Friends of the Hebrew University mourn with great sadness the passing of Irving Bernstein, a member of our Council of Trustees and an Associate Governor of the Hebrew University. We send heartfelt condolences to his wife, Judith, his sons Robert and Joseph, his grandchildren Shira, Rochelle, Jared and Carl; his sister, Frances, and the entire family. Keith L. Sachs, President Lawrence Newman, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive VP
      