
        FURMAN-George C., 88. Of Bellport, New York, died at 7:30 PM, at Brookhaven Health Care Facility. Former Director of Fleet Bank of Eastern Long Island until his retirement five years ago, was President of Banker's Trust & Co. in the early forties which later evolved into becoming the Patchogue Bank, changing its name to Island State Bank in the seventies. As Chairman of the Board he instituted its merger with United Bank of New York, later merged with Norstar Bank and now Fleet Bank. A graduate of Albany Law School of Union University in 1934 and Member of the Suffolk County Bar Association for sixty-six years he served as a Suffolk County Assistant District Attorney for ten years, Chairman of Brookhaven Town Ethics Board, Brookhaven Town Attorney for the Assessor's Office (before Brookhaven Town had a Town Attorney's Office). He was also the original incorporator, co trustee and attorney of the Manor of St. George Museum, site of the famous Revolutionary Battle and raid by Gen. Tallimadge, which the museum is still operating today free of admission charges and self supporting from investment vehicles arranged by Mr. Furman. Recently he was feted by the Patchogue Chamber of Commerce at their annual dinner meeting, for his ten years of service as President of the Chamber. United Methodist Church of Patchogue has also recognized his leadership and support as past President of the Board of Trustees and made construction of the Wesley Education Wing possible for 400 Sunday School Children in 1964 and recently contributed their grand piano in memory of Daisy C. Furman, his mother. A graduate of Patchogue High School in 1927 and Cornell University in 1932, he will be remembered as the basketball team captain that led both schools to many championships. Mr. Furman is survived by his three children, Joel M. Furman, Esq. of Patchogue, NY, George H. Furman II of Cookeville, TN and daughter, Gail Moore of Rutland, VT. He is also, survived by six grandchildren, George C. Furman II, Andrew W. Furman, Jacqueline Moore, Thomas Moore, Susanne Moore, Wendy Moore, and four great grandchildren, Zachery Gauthier, Katie Gauthier, Allison Gauthier and Kiel Furman. For information Lucia and Orlando Funeral Home, 326 East Main St., Patchogue, NY. Viewing will be at the deceased's waterfront home, 6 Rogers Ave., Bellport, NY Sunday 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. with a reading of service at 8 P.M. Funeral services will be held Monday at 11 A.M. at the United Methodist Church, Rev. Gary Betts, officiating. Interment will follow immediately thereafter at the Cedar Grove Cemetery, Jennings Avenue, Patchogue, NY and the public is invited. Flowers may be sent to the residence at 6 Rogers Ave, Bellport, New York.
      