
        BERMAN-Herbert. We express our sincere condolences to Daisy Berman on the passing of her beloved husband, Herbert. As Golden Founders of the Medical Center, their generous support of our Pediatric Unit and the Jesselson Heart Center has played a vital role in helping to provice comprehensive, state-of-the-art care to the people of Jerusalem. May Daisy, Nathaniel, Sara, Debra and their families have warm and loving memories of a very special and caring individual. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Mrs. Erica Jesselson, Chairperson of the Board Menno Ratzker, President Lee Weinbach, President Women's Division Sidney Adler, Treasurer Dr. Stuart Tauber, Exec. Dir.
        BERMAN-Herbert. AMIT is profoundly saddened by the untimely passing of the beloved husband of our most devoted Honorary National President, Daisy Berman, brother of our dedicated National Vice President, Marilyn Moed, and our generous benefactor and life long friend. A man of vision and truth, Herbert Berman was an astute Jewish communal leader and champion of religious Zionism who immersed himself in addressing the challenges facing world Jewry. A man of inner warmth and great spirit, Herbert Berman utilized his superb legal mind in furthering AMIT's mission of saving the forgotten children of Israel. Our hearts go out to his dear wife Daisy, his sister Marilyn and to his three children, Debra, Nathaniel and Sarah. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Evelyn Blachor, National Pres. Marvin Leff, Executive Dir.
        BERMAN-Herbert. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Queens Borough Public Library and the Board of Directors of the Queens Library Foundation mourn the passing of a dear friend and colleague, Herbert Berman. He was a tireless advocate for literacy and learning, and truly strengthened Queens Library for all the people of Queens. He served as a Library Trustee since 1981, and as President of the Board since 1997. He was also a valuable member of the Foundation Board. Our deepest condolences go to his beloved wife, Daisy, and children, Sara, Debra and Nathaniel. May his memory be a blessing to his dear ones, and for all who loved literacy. Gary E. Strong, Library Director Msgr. Thomas J. Gradilone Vice President Queens Library Board Joseph Ficalora, President Queens Library Foundation Board
        BERMAN-Herbert. The students, faculty and friends of the Sh'or Yoshuv Institute mourn the passing of Herbert Berman. A devoted and caring friend of Sh'or Yoshuv, his commitment to the furtherance of Jewish education and continuity was an integral part of his life. His dedication and perseverance to many educational, religious and social causes have left an eternal mark and blessing to his family. We offer our sincere condolence to his friends, associates, family and all those whose lives he enriched through his strength, generosity and caring. Maurice Friedman, President Rabbi Naftali Jaeger, Dean Rabbi Avrohom Halpern, Dir. Rabbi Herschel Leiner Executive Director
        BERMAN-Herbert. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend, Herbert Berman. We can never replace his friendship and we will always miss him. Moshe and Debby Friedman
      