
        CHAZEN-Geoffrey David. Beloved husband of Jamie Rachel, father of Zoe Alexandra and Charlotte Annabel, died at age 39. According to his wishes, the family has donated his body to the Microbiology Dept. at NYU Medical Center. Shiva will be observed at 101 Central Park West. A memorial service will be held in Manhattan on Thursday afternoon; time and place to be announced.
        CHAZEN-Geoffrey D., M.D.. The faculty and staff of the Division of Infectious Diseases and the entire faculty and housestaff of the Department of Medicine and the School of Medicine are deeply saddened and mourn the passing of our young dear friend and beloved colleague, Dr. Geoffrey D. Chazen, Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine at NYU. He was a very bright critical thinker, a dedicated caring physician, and an outstanding teacher. Geoffrey was a very fine role model for students and housestaff who admired him greatly. He was equally at home in the research laboratory and at the bedside. As a former Fellow of the National Institutes of Health, he made the important discovery that IL-7 was a potent growth factor which stimulated cellular as well as humoral immune responses. At NYU he created and directed an academic and successful section on Geographic Medicine. We will miss our colleague, a highly respected, popular, scientific physician, clinician and teacher. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Jamie, his children Zoe and Charlotte, his mother Barbara, his father Dr. Eric Chazen, and his entire family. Noel L. Cohen, M.D., Interim Dean H. Sherwood Lawrence, M.D. Division of Infectious Diseases Saul J. Farber, M.D., MACP Chairman Dept of Medicine, NYU School of Medicine
        CHAZEN-Geoffrey, Dr. We will miss your smile, laughter and spirit and thank you for some of our most cherished memories. The world is a sadder place without you. You remain forever in our hearts. With love, Wendy, Rich, Morgan, Dylan, Jeni, Gary and Abigail.
        CHAZEN-Geoffrey. We will miss our nephew, cousin and friend. Jamie, Zoe and Charlotte, our love and thoughts are with you. Love, Aunt Ellie, Uncle David, Michael, Lesley, Suzi, Brian, Andy, Heather and Sandy
      