
        HOLLAND-Jack J. Beloved husband of the late Natalie. Loving father of Stephen and Margot, and Richard and Lila. Cherished grandfather of Elizabeth and Al, Joshua, Leslie, Adam and Lisa, and great-grandfather of Zoe. Dear brother of Emil and Sylvia, and the late Louis and Sadie. Cherished uncle. Services ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave., NYC, 11:15 AM, Friday.
        HOLLAND-Jack J. With deep sorrow and regret, Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center records the passing of Jack J. Holland, a dear friend, benefactor, and distinguished Vice President of our Board of Trustees, and President Emeritus of Rutland Nursing Home. During his 70-year association with the Medical Center, Mr. Holland served in numerous distinguished capacities, including President of the Rutland Nursing Home, Anniversary Dinner Chairman, Chairman of the Building Committee and Chairman of the Long-Range Planning and Development Committee. His leadership was crucial to the progress and development of the Medical Center. The Medical Center's synagogue/chapel and the lifeline promenade in the Briger Pavillion were made possible by the generosity of Jack Holland and his family and shall be lasting tributes to the Holland family's dedication to our institution. To Jack Holland's loving sons, Richard and Stephen, daughters-in-law Lila and Margot, and grandchildren, Elizabeth Weiss, Joshua Holland, Leslie Holland and Adam Holland, and great-grandchild, Zoe, we offer the warm condolences of bereaved friends who share in their tremendous loss. We shall deeply miss him. Robert J. Benowitz, Esq. President David Minkin, President Emeritus Stanley Mandel, Chairman Board of Trustees Herbert Yassky, President Rutland Nursing Home Milton M. Gutman, CEO Mohammad Zahir, M.D. Executive Medical Advisor
        HOLLAND-Jack. The Board of Directors of The Richard Tucker Music Foundation express their condolences on the passing of Jack Holland, a patron and friend for many years. Our deepest sympathy is extended to Board Member Stephen Holland and the entire Holland family. Barry Tucker, President Jeffrey S. Tabak, Chairman
        HOLLAND-Jack. The Orkin family mourns the loss of our beloved uncle Jack. Cherished brother of Sylvia Holland Orkin and loving uncle of Fred and Susan Orkin and their children Jennifer and Jeffrey and of Stuart and Roslyn Orkin and their daughter Jane. Uncle Jack's strength, generosity and devotion to family will always be remembered.
        HOLLAND-Jack. The Rabbi, Officers, Trustees and Members of Temple Beth-El, Cedarhurst, New York, and its Affiliates express deepest sympathy on the passing of its member. We grieve with the family on their loss. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Allan Kroningold, President
      