
        GILMAN-Howard. On behalf of the entire New York University Medical Center community we note with great sorrow the passing of Howard Gilman, a longtime benefactor and good friend. He established the Howard Gilman Foundation AIDS Research Laboratory at the Medical Center and has helped our scientists in their quest to understand one of today's most challenging diseases. Howard will be missed deeply. We offer our sincere condolences to his family and friends. E. John Rosenwald, Jr., Chairman Board of Trustees NYU Medical Center Noel L. Cohen, M.D., Interim Provost and Dean NYU Medical Center
        GILMAN-Howard. It is with great sadness that the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., mourn the passing of Howard Gilman, president of the Howard Gilman Foundation. He was a beloved friend and a thoughtful supporter of this institution. A warm, gracious, and committed benefactor, he will be deeply missed by us and all who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathy to his mother, Sylvia Gilman, and to all his friends. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        GILMAN-Howard. The Board of Directors and staff of MIMC mourn the loss of our founding ''partner'' and friend, Howard Gilman. His commitment to research in cardiovascular medicine as well as HIV, AIDS and other infectious diseases will be continued through the research managed by this company which he so graciously supported. Our condolences to his family and friends and to all those whose lives he enriched through his commitment and dedication to excellence and beauty. Sandra S. Garrett, Ph.D., Chairman of the Board, MIMC, Inc.
        GILMAN-Howard. The Board of Directors and Staff of City Center 55th Street Theater Foundation, Inc. deeply regret the untimely passing of Howard Gilman, a wonderful friend to City Center, its Encores! series and the many dance companies who perform here. His warmth and generosity made a tremndous difference to all who care about the arts. Howard M. Squadron, Chairman Judith E. Daykin, President/Executive Director Elaine Malsin, Vice Chairman
        GILMAN-Howard. With great sadness, the Board of Directors and staff of Career Transition for Dancers note the loss of our dear friend, Howard Gilman. He loved dance and he loved dancers. He knew that our art form could only flourish in the long run if individual artists could also flourish, both during and after their dance careers. The lives that have been changed as a result of his caring and generosity are innumerable. We shall miss him. Cynthia Gregory, Chairman
        GILMAN-Howard. The Officers and Board of Directors of American Friends of David Yellin Teachers College in Jerusalem record with sorrow the passing of Howard Gilman, a strong supporter of the College and a basic believer in the importance of education for the strengthening of the State of Israel.
        GILMAN-Howard. The Institute for Policy Studies extend their sympathy to the Gilman family, at the passing of the philanthropist and business leader, Howard Gilman. He was a beacon of support and encouragement for artists, naturalists and public scholars.
      