
        GILMAN-Howard. On January 3, 1998. President of the Howard Gilman Foundation and Chairman of the Board of Gilman Paper Co. Beloved son of Sylvia and the late Charles Gilman. Brother of the late Charles Gilman, Jr. Friends may call at at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St., Monday, January 5, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral services on Tuesday, January 6, 11 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. at 65th St.
        GILMAN-Howard. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University is profoundly saddened by the passing of Howard Gilman, a great humanitarian. A member of Tel Aviv University's International Board of Governors and the American Friends of Tel Aviv University President's Council, he was a major benefactor of the University. Generations of Tel Aviv University's faculty members, students and researchers will always remember and admire him for his great kindness, gentleness and commitment to the University. He established the Howard Gilman International Colloquium, which brought the message of tolerance and understanding throughout the world, and the Howard Gilman Doctoral Fellowship Fund and contributed to the Isaac and Rosa Gilman Faculty of Humanities Building. At Tel Aviv University he also supported the Fred Lessing Center for European Historical Studies, the Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies, the Gulton Foundation Research Project, and the Adams Super-Center for Brain Studies. He will endure forever in the hearts and souls of all of us associated with Tel Aviv University. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Bernard Rapoport, Chairman, Board of Directors, American Friends of Tel Aviv University Melvin S. Taub, Chairman Emeritus Robert J. Topchik, President Dina Ettinger, Member, Tel Aviv Unversity's Board of Governors Jules Love, Exec. V.P., AFTAU
        GILMAN-Howard. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the untimely loss of one of the world's great collectors of photographs. A generous patron of the arts, Howard Gilman's profound love of photography and his relentless pursuit of the very best helped educate and enlighten a broad public. He shared the scope and depth of his collection in the 1993 Metropolitan exhibition, ''The Waking Dream.'' Through the Howard Gilman Foundation, he made another major contribution to the field in 1997, by generously endowing the first permanent space at the Met ever devoted to the medium. The Howard Gilman Gallery is a legacy both to his collecting genius and his philanthropic spirit. He will be deeply missed. Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, Chairman William H. Luers, President Philippe de Montebello, Director
        GILMAN-Howard. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the passing of Howard Gilman. As a visionary and as a generous benefactor of the arts, as well as a supporter of environmental and endangered species issues, he has had an enormously positive impact on our world. He was a special friend of Juilliard and was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from the School in 1997. Through his grace, cultivated taste and wit, he allowed others to understand better and cherish the most important aspects of our lives. A warm and wonderful man, he will be deeply missed by all members of the Juilliard community. Mary Rodgers Guettel Chairman, Board of Trustees Joseph W. Polisi President
        GILMAN-Howard. The Board of Trustees of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art notes with sadness the passing of a dear friend, Howard Gilman. A devoted patron of the arts committed to the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and the state of Israel, he will be deeply missed by all who knew him. His kindness and generosity will long be remembered. Uzi Zucker, Chairman Tamar Rudich, Vice Chairman
        GILMAN-Howard. Our beloved friend, Howard Gilman, died on January 3, 1998. He was a remarkable man: wise, gentle, gracious, refined, modest and kind. He loved beauty and was its champion. Above all, Howard was a man who protected all endangered beings; he sheltered the weak; he supported the struggling; he embraced the vunerable. We will always love him. Jeffrey, Brondi, Justine, Jon Borer
        GILMAN-Howard. The Israel Philharmonic Orchestra and its American Friends acknowledge with sorrow the passing of a dear friend and Benefactor whose commitment to the lives of artists led him to establish the I.P.O. Musicians Emergency Loan Fund. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman, Co-Chairmen Herman S. Sandler, President Avi Shoshani, Secy. General, I.P.O.
      