
        SANGER-Lilen. Died on January 8, 1998 at New York Hospital in her 91st year from complications following emergency surgery. It was her first major illness. She was the cherished mother of Sirgay and mother-in-law of Judy. The loving sister-in-law of Ethel and grandmother of Terry, his wife Abbie, and Vicky. The great-grandmother of James and adoring aunt of Mitzi, Patricia, Liam, Cyrena, Stephany, Jonathan, Elizabeth, Gail, Mary Bryna, Diane and Michael. Great aunt of Priscilla, Elizabeth, Margaret, Erik, Cory, Sean, Evan, Regan, Geoffrey, Wendy, David, Kevin, Lorie Dru, Jared, Amy, Aaron, Jaron, Julia Anne, Jeffrey, Margot, Meredith, Jonathan, Matthew and Amanda. She loved the spouses of her family; Lew, Bill, Lee, Simmel, Judy, Carla, Al, Mark, Yakov, Larry and Francine. Her interest in her family organization, The Independent Family Society, founded in 1914 was lifelong. She attended most of its 800 meetings. She was distinguished as the first and only American woman to own a distillery in Scotland. She produced the finest highland malt whiskey in Pitlochry, which aged in port barrels while being used as ships' ballast, sent around the world, and then bottled by her firm. With humor and style she and her late brother Abbe, brother-in-law Irving and sisters, Mildred and Pearl became wellknown figures at the Savoy in post war London, bringing American energy and optimism to national and overseas trade. Their best known brands were Kings Ransom and House of Lords. For 40 years she directed and ran International Distributors and International Brands with hundreds of loyal devoted employees in the U.S. and U.K. The loss of her family associates led to the sale of the busness in the 1970's. She was chairwoman of the Women's Alcoholic Beverage Association. She was known for her philanthropy to the Harvard Medical School Israeli medical education, the Fifty-fifth Street Synagogue, the Flatbush Jewish Center, and Greek War Relief. Family and friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street on Saturday, 5-8 PM, with service Sunday, 1:30 PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Harvard Medical School.
      