
        MURPHY-Joseph S. Charismatic and wonderfully accessible to students and staff, Joseph S. Murphy was the outgoing and dynamic 5th President of Queens College. It was a terrible blow to all of us to learn of the accidental death of so vital and accomplished a friend and colleague. The College has suffered an irreparable loss. We mourn him deeply. He brought to our campus his compassionate concerns evident during his service in the Peace Corps and posts in Federal Service. He was a man of ideas and a man of action; a political scientist as a well as a philospher. He was deeply committed to the well-being of working people, particularly those struggling to win an education while earning a living. His Queens College Presidency was marked by stirring challenges from students and the community, and by fiscal emergencies. He was determined, he said, to invest ''a good piece of my life in Queens College to let the City learn how good the school is.'' A strong and determined man of the world and of our times, he left Queens College a legacy of caring and commitment. Allen Lee Sessoms, President The Entire Queens College Community
        MURPHY-Dr. Joseph S. The Professional Staff Congress expresses profound regret at the untimely passing of Dr. Joseph S. Murphy, former Chancellor of the City University of New York, President of Queens College, and Professor of Political Science at the City University. His dedication to the education of CUNY's diverse student population as well as his commitment to the intellectual life will be remembered. The faculty and academic staff extend their condolences to the Murphy family. Irwin H. Polishook, President Professional Staff Congress City University of New York
        MURPHY-Dr. Joseph S. The City College of New York mourns the passing of Dr. Joseph S. Murphy, former Chancellor of The City University of New York. Dr. Murphy was an eloquent and effective advocate of access and academic quality in higher education, and a firm friend of City College. On behalf of the CCNY community, I wish to extend my condolences to his family. Yolanda T. Moses, President The City College of New York/ CUNY
        MURPHY-Joseph S. The Baruch College community is greatly saddened over the tragic death of Joseph S. Murphy, former Chancellor of The City University of New York. Always conducting himself with a light and gentle touch he affected for the better, thousands of students who chose to study at CUNY. We will miss his energy, intellect and marvelous sense of humor. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his family. Matthew Goldstein, President
        MURPHY-Joseph S. The faculty of The City University of New York mourns the tragic loss of its beloved former Chancellor, Joseph S. Murphy. A scholar, linguist, activist, and public servant who never lost sight of human needs. Sandi E. Cooper, Chair, City University of New York Faculty Senate
      