
        RUSKAY-Shira. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum express profound sadness at the death of Shira Ruskay, an exceptional person much admired for her beauty and spirituality. Our sincere condolences to her husband John, a former member of The Jewish Museum Board through his position as Vice Chancellor of The Jewish Theological Seminary of America. We mourn this loss with our friend and colleague John and convey our condolences to his and Shira's children Doron, Ilana and her husband Scott, and all of their family and friends. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
        RUSKAY-Shira. The Directors and staff of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York record with profound sorrow the untimely death of Shira Ruskay, wife of our good friend Dr. John Ruskay. May her song of life and exemplary acts of chesed remain an inspiration for the Jewish community and a source of strength and consolation for her entire family. May John and all the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Philip Schatten, President David Mann, Exec Vice President Stephen A. Kramer, Chairman of the Board
        RUSKAY-Shira. The Board of Directors and clinical and administrative staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, and especially of our Hospice Care Program, deeply mourn the loss of Shira Ruskay. Shira was a dedicated and beloved member of our staff and served as the Coordinator of Social Work for our hospice program. We extend our profound sympathy at this time to her husband, John, and to her children. Carl H. Pforzheimer III Chairman of the Board Carol Raphael President and CEO
        RUSKAY-Shira G. Valiant woman of talent and grace, devoted mother, loving wife of eminent Jewish community leader, Dr. John Ruskay, sensitive daughter of our revered Rabbi and Editor, Dr. Sidney Greenberg and Hilda Greenberg, loyal sister, caring friend and respected professional. Her life was a Blessing, which shall surely endure. Rabbi Jonathan D. Levine, Pres Andrew Amsel, Exec V.P The Directors of Media Judaica
        RUSKAY-Shira. The New York Havurah mourns the passing of Shira Ruskay, one of its founding members. Shira's song was like no other-reaching into the very depths of the soul. Our hearts go out to John, Ilana, Darone, Hilda, Sidney, Adina, and Rina. May her light continue to shine through them and all who were touched by her.
        RUSKAY-Shira. DOROT mourns the tragic and untimely loss of this vibrant woman. We will always remember her sparkling personality and warm graciousness. Our hearts go out to John, Doron and Ilana, who have our deepest condolences. Renee Adler Ascher, President Vivian Fenster Ehrlich, Exce Dir
        RUSKAY-Shira. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends heartfelt condolences to our dear colleague and friend Dr. John Ruskay on the loss of his beloved wife. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Martin S. Begun, President Michael S. Miller, Executive VP
      