
        DILWORTH-J. Richardson. On December 29, 1997. Beloved husband, devoted father and proud grandfather. Memorial service will be at 12PM, Saturday, January 10, in the Princeton University Chapel, Princeton, NJ. The Rev. Carl D. Reimers will officiate. A reception will be held afterward at Prospect House on the University Campus. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Melissa Dilworth Gold '61 Visiting Artists Fund at Milton Academy, 170 Centre Street, Milton, MA. 02186. Melissa Dilworth Gold died in a helicopter accident in 1991.
        DILWORTH-J. Richardson. Three generations of the Rockefeller family join the Directors and staff of Rockefeller & Co. in celebrating their long relationship with Dick Dilworth. We mourn his recent death and express our sympathy with and affection for his wonderful family. For twenty-three years, Dick was the brilliant leader of our company's investment division, a superb colleague and advisor to individual members of the Rockefeller family, and a highly effective trustee of many associated businesses and non profit entities. We will miss him as an insightful associate and a dear friend.
        FARRELL-Edward Leo Farrell Jr., of Landenberg, PA., died in Christiana Medical Center, Newark, DE on January 7. Mr. Farrell is survived by his wife Kathryn Coady Flanagan of New York City and West Point, whom he married in 1982. His first wife, Maryrose Drummey of Watertown, Mass died in 1981. He leaves four children: Pat Farrell Javits, Sue Ann Farrell, Mary Beth Farrell Kirkpatrick, and Shea Farrell, a brother Dr. David Farrell, a sister, Marie Farrell and six grandchildren. Mr. Farrell is also survived by nine Flanagan stepchildren and twenty-six grandchildren. Visitation for Mr. Farrell will be in St. Mary of The Assumption Roman Catholic Church, Hockessin, DE on Friday evening, January 9 from 7-8:30. The Mass of The Resurrection will be in St. Mary of The Assumption Church on Saturday, January 10 at 10:30. Interment will be in Arlington National Cemetery Tuesday, January 13 at 9AM. In place of the flowers the family suggests a contribution to the Nursing Staff of the MICU and Stepdown Units at Christiana Medical Center in Newark, DE. For information Chandler Funeral Homes Wilmington, DE.
      