
        HIRSHON-Dorothy H. Died suddenly Thursday, Jan 29, 1998 at the age of 89, following an automobile accident. She is survived by her son Jeffrey Paley and his wife Valerie; her daughter Hilary Paley Califano and her husband Joseph Califano; and her step-daughter Joy Briggs, all of New York City. She is also survived by seven grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Scattering of the Ashes Ceremony will be private. A Memorial Gathering will be held at the Tishman Auditorium, The New School, 66 West 12th Street, NYC, March 5 at 11:30 A.M. In lieu of flowers contributiions in her memory may be made to the New School or to Phoenix House.
        HIRSHON-Dorothy H. The Board of Trustees mark with deep sadness the sudden death of Dorothy H. Hirshon, a vital, impassioned leader who has been at the heart of the New School for 61 of its 79 years. A Trustee of the New School since 1941 and Chair of the Board from 1980 to 1985, Mrs. Hirshon began her affiliation in 1937 as a Board member of the University in Exile, established to provide an intellectual home for refugee scholars from National Socialism. She led the Parsons Board of Governors in the 1980s and was involved in every facet of the University from her earliest days on the Board to her last. As Chair, she expressed a passionate commitment to the rebuilding of the Graduate Faculty, and the tradition of a committed Board bears her imprint. In recognition of her enduring commitment to the ideals of the University in Exile, the Board in 1985 honored her by establishiing the Dorothy H. Hirshon Fellowship, which provides funding to students from nations in which intellectual freedom has been abridged. She later established the Dorothy H. Hirshon Professorship in the Graduate Faculty. She also envisioned the University as a national center for the arts and played a major leadership role in the Mannes College of Music and the School of Dramatic Arts, as well as Parsons. We will miss the fierce commitment to excellence, the probing intellect and the love she brought to our community in these 60 plus years. We extend our deepest sympathy to daughter Hilary and Joseph Califano, son Jeffrey and Valerie Paley, and stepdaughter Joy Briggs, her grandchildren and her great-grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held at Tishman Auditorium, New School, 66 West 12th Street, on Thursday, March 5, at 11:30 A.M. John L. Tishman, Chair Board of Trustees Jonathan F. Fanton, President New School
        HIRSHON-Dorothy H. A passionate, generous and profoundly committed Board member for more than a quarter of a century, Dorothy Hirshon is mourned by the residents, staff and Board members of Phoenix House. A celebrated beauty of the years between the world wars, Dorothy Hirshon was an early and ardent champion of social justice. In the 1940's, she joined the board's of The New School and the Urban League, and she fought to integrate the staffs of New York's voluntary hospitals. The 1950's found her working for New York City's Mayor as an advocate for public housing and human rights. During the 1960's, she served on the City's Commision on Human Rights. Dorothy Hirshon was Vice Chairman of the Phoenix House Board of Directors for a decade (19781988) and remained, until yesterday's tragic accident, deeply involved in the day-to-day concerns of our organization and in the lives of the young people we serve. We will sorely miss her and extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Charles A. Heimbold, Jr., Chairman of the Board Mitchell S. Rosenthal, M.D., President Phoenix House Foundation
      