
        MOORMAN-Francis D. (Frank). Hall of Famer, Ad Executive, Youngest Naval Commander, U.S. Water Polo Guru, died in New York Hospital on January 1, 1998, after a fall-induced coma at the age of 81. He was born July 7, 1916, with his identical twin, Silas Mercer Moorman, MD. Frank graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy and Harvard University. (In 1940, he was National Champion in the 100 Meter Backstroke). Even before World War II, Frank tried to join the British Armed Forces. As an American, he was denied, so he joined the U.S. Naval Reserve. He swiftly rose in rank to become the youngest Destroyer commander in Navy history. After the war, he built a notable career in advertising, first at The French Line as Public Relations and Advertising Director, and then as Director of International Advertising for L.W. Froelich. Frank was a hyper-active member of the New York Athletic Club for 61 very involved years. As Captain of its Water Polo team he led them to three National championships, in '55, '56, '57. He also covered Olympic Water Polo for the Associated Press. As a writer for Swimming World, he alone selected the 14 Best Players and 10 Best Referees in the world, throughout the '70's and '80's. As the world's leading authority on the game, he was inducted into the U.S. Water Polo Hall of Fame in 1981. In 1990, he became the first winner of the coveted U.S. Water Polo Award. A member of the Water Polo Committees of the AAU and the USOC, he also served 7 terms as First Vice President of U.S. Water Polo, Inc. An inveterate trencherman, he revelled in memberships in the Commanderie de Bordeaux, the Chevalier du Tastevin, the Conferie de la Chaine des Rotisseure, the Wine and Food Society, and the German Wine Society. He travelled, happily and tirelessly, to every continent in the world. He is survived by his companion of 35 years, Thomas C. Cracovia, and cousins, Mary Davis and Libby Conner of Richmond, Virginia. Donations can be made to the Moorman Scholarship Fund at Phillips Exeter Academy of The American Cancer Society. For information regarding a memorial service, call (212) 802-5623.
      