
        CHAZEN-Geoffrey David. Beloved husband of Jamie Rachel, father of Zoe Alexandra and Charlotte Annabel, son of Eric and Barbara Chazen of Nashville, TN, sister of Lisa Levine of Washington, DC, grandson of Juliett Grobstein of New Rochelle, NY, son-in-law of Phyllis Zimmerman of NYC, died at age 39. According to his wishes, the family has donated his body to the Microbiology Dept. at NYU Medical Center. Donations in his memory can be made to the Geoffrey David Chazen, M.D. Memorial Fund for AIDS Research at NYU Medical Center, Office of Development, 550 1st Ave, NY NY 10016 or the Geoffrey David Chazen Memorial Fund at Vanderbilt University, School of Medicine, 201 Alumni Hall, Nashville TN 37240. A memorial service will be held today, Thursday, January 22, at the Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51st Street (between 2nd & 3rd) at 4:30PM.
        CHAZEN-Geoffrey D., M.D.. The faculty and staff of the Division of Infectious Diseases and the entire faculty and housestaff of the Department of Medicine and the School of Medicine are deeply saddened and mourn the passing of our young dear friend and beloved colleague, Dr. Geoffrey D. Chazen, Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine at NYU. He was a very bright critical thinker, a dedicated caring physician, and an outstanding teacher. Geoffrey was a very fine role model for students and housestaff who admired him greatly. He was equally at home in the research laboratory and at the bedside. As a former Fellow of the National Institutes of Health, he made the important discovery that IL-7 was a potent growth factor which stimulated cellular as well as humoral immune responses. At NYU he created and directed an academic and successful section on Geographic Medicine. We will miss our colleague, a highly respected, popular, scientific physician, clinician and teacher. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Jamie, his children Zoe and Charlotte, his mother Barbara, his father Dr. Eric Chazen, and his entire family. Noel L. Cohen, M.D., Interim Dean H. Sherwood Lawrence, M.D. Division of Infectious Diseases Saul J. Farber, M.D., MACP Chairman Dept of Medicine, NYU School of Medicine
        CHAZEN-Geoffrey David. Beloved brother, grandson, nephew and cousin and dearest best friend. You will be missed far more than words can ever express. Our many wonderful memories will keep you in our hearts always. Juliett Grobstein Lisa, David, Molly & Noah Levine Pauline, Martin, Karen, Jonathan, Miriam, Maya, Daniel & Peter Karp Susan, Victor, Gary, Debbi, Lindsay, Alexander & Lauren Shedlin Karen & Tyler Zachem
        CHAZEN-Geoffrey. A loving and committed husband to Jamie, an adoring father to Zoe and Charlotte, a compassionate, warm, energetic and gifted friend. We will keep him in our hearts. Jolie, Richard, Joe Lori, Seth, Alison
        CHAZEN-Geoffrey D. We mourn the loss of our much loved friend and we share his family's grief. Susan C. Ball, Shari Leipzig, Ben Stacy Osur, Keith Gilbert, Jules, Rebecca and Sarah
      