
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. On January 23, 1998. Chairman of the Board of Leviton Manufacturing Co. Beloved husband of the late Mimi Leviton Amsterdam. Devoted father of Dasha Epstein. Caring and loving grandfather of Robert and Danielle Epstein. Dear brother of Jean Ross. Loyal and best friend of Mimi Goodman. Service Tuesday 11 AM Central Synagogue, Lexington Ave. at 55th St.
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. The Executive Committee and Board of Directors of the Leviton Manufacturing Co., Inc., note with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed fellow member and Chairman of the Board, Jack Amsterdam, age 91. Loving son-in-law of Isidor Leviton, founder, and brother-in-law of Harold I. Leviton, President and CEO of the company. Jack devoted 64 years of loyal service to Leviton. He served as Vice President of Marketing and Sales, and was elected Chairman of the Board in 1965. His sincerity, untiring work ethic and devotion to his employees will be sorely missed. Jack's philanthropic activities benefited numerous organizations and causes. We will always cherish our fond memories of him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved daughter Dasha Epstein, his loving grandchildren Danielle and Robert, and the entire Amsterdam and Leviton families. Executive Committee and Board of Directors Leviton Manufacturing Co., Inc.
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. We feel deep sorrow at the passing of our dear brother-in-law whose warm and close relationship to us and our family will always be a cherished memory. Jack was an exceptionally caring person whose nurturing nature helped all those who sought his wise counsel. Always smiling and cheerful, he managed to create an aura of good will and friendship. A charitable man, his support of numerous institutions and individuals is legend. We were proud to call him brother; now we mourn our loss. Shirley and Harold I. Leviton
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. The employees of the Leviton Manufacturing Co., Inc., grieve the loss of their Chairman of the Board, Jack Amsterdam. He was a leader in our company and a legend in the eletrical industry. He was a friend to all and a mentor to many. His presence wil be missed by each and every one of us. We extend our condolences to the Amsterdam and Leviton families. The Employees of Leviton Manufacturing Co., Inc.
      