
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. On January 23, 1998. Chairman of the Board of Leviton Manufacturing Co. Beloved husband of the late Mimi Leviton Amsterdam. Devoted father of Dasha Epstein. Caring and loving grandfather of Robert and Danielle Epstein. Dear brother of Jean Ross. Loyal and best friend of Mimi Goodman. Service Tuesday 11 AM Central Synagogue, Lexington Ave. at 55th St.
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. The Executive Committee and Board of Directors of the Leviton Manufacturing Co., Inc., note with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed fellow member and Chairman of the Board, Jack Amsterdam, age 91. Loving son-in-law of Isidor Leviton, founder, and brother-in-law of Harold I. Leviton, President and CEO of the company. Jack devoted 64 years of loyal service to Leviton. He served as Vice President of Marketing and Sales, and was elected Chairman of the Board in 1965. His sincerity, untiring work ethic and devotion to his employees will be sorely missed. Jack's philanthropic activities benefited numerous organizations and causes. We will always cherish our fond memories of him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved daughter Dasha Epstein, his loving grandchildren Danielle and Robert, and the entire Amsterdam and Leviton families. Executive Committee and Board of Directors Leviton Manufacturing Co., Inc.
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of a veteran leader of the Electrical Industry Division, a member of the Prime Minister's Club, and a former guest of honor at the Division's luncheon. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Gideon Patt, President Burton P. Resnick, Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg, National Campaign Chairman Peter S. Kalikow, Chairman, Corporate and Professional Divisions Howard Hirsch, Chairman, Real Estate and Construction Divisions Matthew Gold, Chairman Electrical Industry Division
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. We feel deep sorrow at the passing of our dear brother-in-law whose warm and close relationship to us and our family will always be a cherished memory. Jack was an exceptionally caring person whose nurturing nature helped all those who sought his wise counsel. Always smiling and cheerful, he managed to create an aura of good will and friendship. A charitable man, his support of numerous institutions and individuals is legend. We were proud to call him brother; now we mourn our loss. Shirley and Harold I. Leviton
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. The Board of Directors of the American Theatre Wing offers its deepest sympathy to the Wing's long term Vice President, Dasha Epstein and her family on the death of her father, Jack Amsterdam. Jack Amsterdam was a loving, kind and enthusiastic supporter of the arts. We at the Wing and all who ever crossed his path will miss him and his kindness. Mrs. John Stevenson, President American Theatre Wing
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. We mourn the passing of Jack Amsterdam, whom we knew as a friend and client for over sixty years. He possessed a rare generosity of the spirit, and was the voice of respected judgment and wise counsel and extraordinary loyalty. His memory will be cherished by everyone who knew him. We grieve with his family, both Amsterdam and Leviton, and all of his friends. The Partners and Staff of Livingston, Wachtell & Co., LLP
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. The employees of the Leviton Manufacturing Co., Inc., grieve the loss of their Chairman of the Board, Jack Amsterdam. He was a leader in our company and a legend in the eletrical industry. He was a friend to all and a mentor to many. His presence wil be missed by each and every one of us. We extend our condolences to the Amsterdam and Leviton families. The Employees of Leviton Manufacturing Co., Inc.
        AMSTERDAM-Jack. On behalf of the Board of Directors and the Executive Leadership Group at Eagle Electric Manufacuturing Co., Inc., we extend deepest heartfelt condolences to the family fo Jack Amsterdam. He was a man of dignity and generosity and we mourn his passing. He will be missed by all. Board of Directors and Executive Leadership Group Eagle Electric Mfg. Co., Inc. AMSTERDAM-Jack. Our dear uncle Jack, loving, kind and caring. We will all miss your ever present smile and charm. Love, The Sokolow, Hendler and Kriegman Families
      