
        BERMAN-Herbert. Bnai Zion mourns the loss of our former Vice President Herbert Berman. During his tenure he served as Chair of the Finance Committee and provided leadership on behalf of the handicapped and disadvantaged. He was a dedicated Zionist and a true friend. We extend our sincere condolences to his beloved wife Daisy and the entire family. The Honorable Alan G. Hevesi, National President Michael J. Lazar, Chair, Bnai Zion Foundation Mel Parness, Executive V.P.
        BERMAN-Herbert. Beloved husband of Daisy, loving father of Sara, Debra and Nathaniel, dear brother of Marilyn Moed and the late Symma Miller. Funeral services Friday, 10 A.M., at Schwartz Brothers, 114-03 Queens Boulevard (76th Road), Forest Hills. Shiva will be observed from Saturday night until Thursday morning at the Berman home, 108-19 68th Avenue, Forest Hills.
        BERMAN-Herbert. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of Herbert Berman, Esq, an honorary alumnus of the Univeristy and a very active member of its Global Board of Trustees. His late father was one of the University's founders and the son assumed his father's leadership role almost thirty years ago. At the same time, he played an important leadership role in the City University of New York and, especially, Queens College. Himself, a Jew deeply steeped in Jewish learning as well as the world's classics and the literature of the law, he achieved great success in the practice of his chosen profession, and at the same time, was a leader in a score of vital Jewish activities on the national and international scene. But, his greatest love next to his love for his family was higher education for all people and he found his greatest fulfillment in that area both in New York and in Israel. His personal relationship with the University's Chancellor for almost half a century made him a signifigant partner in the University's remarkable development. His family will miss him. So will we. Together, we shall seek comfort in sharing inspiring memories as we know he touched the lives of countless people all his life. To his beloved wife Daisy, to his devoted sister Marilyn Moed and his gifted children Sara, Debra and Nathaniel, we extend sincerest condolences, as we do for all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Prof. Moshe Kaveh, President Selik Wengrowsky, Chairman Global Board of Trustees Jane Stern Lebell, President, American Friends Brig. Gen. (Res.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President
        BERMAN-Herbert. Queens College mourns the death of Herbert Berman, 74, whose wise and compassionate spirit guided the establishment and growth of the Center for Jewish Studies at Queens College for over two decades. He brought to this responsibility his broad experience as counsel to the Governing Board of the World Jewish Congress and the World Jewish Restitution Organization and his service to numerous other Jewish organizations and civic causes. We extend our profound condolences to his wife and children in their bereavement. A Phi Beta Kappa at NYU, Herb was a life-long friend of public higher education, having served on New York City's Board of Higher Education, predecessor to the City University of New York Board of Trustees. He served with distinction on the Board's committee overseeing Queens College and the Queens College Student Services Board and as a Trustee of CUNY's Construction Fund. A member of the Executive Committee of the CUNY Law School at Queens College, he was also widely active in legal education and participated in three White House conferences on social issues. As a member of the Advisory Board of the Center for Jewish Studies, he helped develop one of the outstanding programs in the country for Jewish scholarship and for understanding of the role of Jewish thought in American culture. He was always an inspiration to the faculty and students in the program and symbolized the highest standards of citizen support for and personal involvement in higher learning. He will be deeply missed by the entire Queens College community. Allen Lee Sessoms President
        BERMAN-Herbert. The entire Tenzer Greenblatt family mourns the sudden passing of our beloved Counsel, mentor and friend. As the senior most member of our firm, for a half century Herb's wise counsel was eagerly sought by, and warmly shared with, clients, colleagues and community and government leaders. We are proud of Herb's vast achievements as a philanthropist and leader. Each cause championed by Herb, and there were so many, in education, medicine and social welfare, in the United States, in Israel and throughout the world, was the beneficiary not only of his generosity but also of his loyal commitment and tenacious advocacy. Our hearts go out to Daisy, Sara, Debra and Nathaniel. We hope you will be comforted by the knowledge that Herb inspired so many in so many ways. We will miss him dearly.
        BERMAN-Herbert, Esq. A founding member of the Queens College Center for Jewish Studies, served with distinction as Chair of the Advisory Board of the Center for over twenty years. His efforts, leadership and support helped bring Jewish Studies at Queens College to a position of national prominence. He and his wife, Daisy, endowed an annual lecture and generously supported Jewish education and culture at Queens College and in the community. The Advisory Board and the Center for Jewish Studies share deeply the grief of his wife Daisy, of his family and of all those whose lives have been touched by his generosity and his work. His legacy of civic - minded dedication and achievement will continue to inspire us. Center for Jewish Studies Advisory Board Arthur Anderman, Esq., Chair
        BERMAN-Herbert. The Officers, Board of Directors and the Staff of the America-Israel Friendship League, deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague Herbert Berman, a long time supporter and Treasurer of our organization. His life of dedication to the Jewish People, the State of Israel and to many other worthy civic and philanthropic causes will forever serve as a source of inspiration to all of us. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Daisy, his children Sara, Debra and Nathaniel and the entire family. Mortimer B. Zuckerman, President Kenneth J. Bialkin, Chairman of the Board Stanley A. Urman, Senior Executive Vice-President Ilana Artman Executive Vice-President
        BERMAN-Herbert. The Officers, Board of Directors, and Staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Herbert Berman, philanthropic leader and renowned attorney. He served with distinction on our Finance Committee and JAFI/JDC Committee. But his good work extended to so many other Jewish and civic organizations. He was a passionate advocate for Holocaust reparations and Israel, and his dedication to helping those in need knew no boundaries. To his wife, Daisy; his children, Sara, Debra, and Nathaniel; his sister, Marilyn Moed; and his entire family, we send our deepest sympathies. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        BERMAN-Herbert. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of a dear friend, an eminent attorney and leader in Jewish communal life and civic affairs, who was a longtime member of the RIETS Board of Trustees. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Daisy, who, with him, was a YU Guardian; their children, Sara Berman, Debra Berman, and Nathaniel Berman; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Judah Feinerman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees
        BERMAN-Herbert. The World Jewish Congress records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed colleague Herbert Berman. His loss will be felt deeply in the precincts of international Jewry and among all those who shared his passionate concern for justice and the rights of the Jewish people. As a champion of the Jewish cause and of humanitarian concerns his memory will be with us always. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Edgar M. Bronfman, President Israel Singer, Secretary General Evelyn Sommer, Chairman American Section Elan Steinberg, Executive Director
        BERMAN-Herbert. The Orthodox Union mourns the passing of its longtime Officer and benefactor, a forceful and charismatic communal activist. He championed Torah and Torah institutions as he fought for Israel and Jewish interests worldwide. May Hashem console Daisy and the family among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mandell I. Ganchrow, MD President Rabbi Raphael B. Butler Executive Vice President Marcel Weber, Chairman Board of Directors Dr. Marcos Katz, Chairman Board of Governors
        BERMAN-Herbert. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend Herb, most loyal and trusted confidant, counselor and associate. Being in Herb's company was always a wonderful experience that combined good business with laughter and humor. Herb's efforts on the part of the community at large and his special commitment to Jewish causes will endure for many generations. We extend our deepest condolences to Daisy, Nathanel, Sara, Debra and to the entire extended family. Bill and Lili Goldberg and families
        BERMAN-Herbert. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of our dear friend and irreplaceable colleague, Herbert Berman. Together with Daisy, he inspired and motivated by his generous support of and deep commitment to Israel, the Jewish people, and Jewish tradition. We pray that Daisy and the family will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Melvin Salberg, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        BERMAN-Herbert. The Board of Directors and staff of The Central Queens YM & YWHA, mourn the passing of Herbert Berman, beloved husband of our esteemed board member Daisy Berman. We extend our deepest sypmpathy to the Berman family. Craig Goodman, President Judith Friedman Rosen, Chairman of The Board Ethel Liebeskind, Exec. Dir.
        BERMAN-Herbert. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York mourns the passing of our esteemed board member and dear friend. His leadership and dedication to so many Jewish causes will be sorely missed. May his beloved wife Daisy and the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Martin S. Begun, President Michael S. Miller, Executive VP
        BERMAN-Herbert. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved brother of its devoted member, Marilyn Moed. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood Pres.
        BERMAN-Herbert. Our hearts go out to Daisy on the loss of a dear friend, a colleague and mentor in all our endeavors on behalf of Israel and the Jewish People. Leon and Elsi Levy
        BERMAN-Herbert. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend. We will miss his sage advice and loyal friendship. Our condolences to the entire family. Whale Securities Co., L.P.
        BERMAN-Herbert. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and trusted advisor. Our heartfelt condolences to Daisy and the entire family. The Blumenthal family
      