
        SCHMITT-Zig, 52. Died at his home in East Hampton, NY, on Monday, December 29, of brain cancer. A native of Miami Beach, Zig was born on December 21, 1945, the first son of Lila Greenspan (Heatter) and W. Gordon Schmitt. Zig attended schools in Miami Beach, and then The Hill School in Pennsylvania. He graduated Harvard College with honors in 1968, and was awarded a Master's degree from the Harvard School of Education the following year. Zig married Jill Keefe in 1969, and they lived in Manhattan, Coral Gables, and Amagansett, Long Island, before their divorce in 1982. Zig is survived by their daughter, Molly Schmitt, 24; and his brother, Dr. David Schmitt (Lettie Bien), and niece, Maggie Schmitt. After graduating from the University of Miami Law School, Zig joined the Riverhead, NY law firm Twomey, Latham & Schmitt, in 1978. In 1980, he was appointed Town Attorney of East Hampton. His well-regarded term enacted significant environmental legislation at a time of bitter political and ideological conflict between land developers and residents. After his term, Zig joined the Law Offices of Leonard Ackerman, in East Hampton, where he remained Of Counsel. Zig led his family's successful investigation of the mysterious death in Miami Beach of his youngest brother, Michael Heatter, in 1982. Thereafter, he litigated a trust dispute on behalf of his family, securing a landmark ruling at the Illinois Supreme Court in 1986. These experiences forged his character and talents to the great benefit of the friends and family who valued his counsel in the years that followed. An uncommon scholar, Zig's insatiable literary appetite and his avid analysis of problems and situations provided his principal pleasures. He delighted in bestowing stimulating gifts upon his friends, and he was a generous contributor to charitable and educational organizations. He spent his last year in the company of Jackie Worth, of Sag Harbor, and died at peace, content with his life. Services: 12:30 PM, Friday, January 2, at the Jewish Center of the Hamptons, East Hampton. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Jewish Center of the Hamptons.
      