
        GILMAN-Howard. On January 3, 1998. President of the Howard Gilman Foundation and Chairman of the Board of Gilman Paper Co. Beloved son of Sylvia and the late Charles Gilman. Brother of the late Charles Gilman, Jr. Friends may call at at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St., Monday, January 5, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral services on Tuesday, January 6, 11 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. at 65th St.
        GILMAN-Howard. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of Cornell University Medical College and The New York and Presbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and devoted benefactor, Howard Gilman. Known for his uncommon wisdom, compassion, and generosity, Mr. Gilman has left an indelible mark on medical research and patient care at this Medical Center. His commitment and dedication resulted in major advances in the field of cardiovascular medicine. He was much loved and will be greatly missed. We join with all those who knew him in mourning his loss. Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Cornell University Medical College Antonio M. Gotto, Jr, M.D. Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean Cornell University Medical College John F. McGillicuddy Co-Chairman, Board of Directors The New York and Presbyterian Hospital David B. Skinner, M.D. Vice Chairman & CEO The New York and Presbyterian Hospital
        GILMAN-Howard. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family mourns the passing of Howard Gilman, our esteemed friend and benefactor. Mr. Gilman's generous donations to the Phillips Beth Israel School of Nursing continued the extraordinary legacy of support to our institution started by his great-grandfather, Moses Phillips, a founder of our hospital, and his grandfather, Isaac L. Phillips. In addition, contributions from his mother and father to Beth Israel helped expand our downtown campus with the construction of Sylvia and Charles Gilman Hall. We will forever cherish his support and friendship, and we extend our heartfelt condolences to his mother and all members of the Gilman family. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President Jerome S. Breslaw, M.D. President, Medical Board Cynthia Chesner, R.N., M.A., Ed. D. Dean, Phillips Beth Israel School of Nursing
        GILMAN-Howard. The Trustees, Company and staff of American Ballet Theatre deeply mourn the passing of Howard Gilman, a man singularly devoted to nurturing the highest standards of artistic accomplishment. For more than two decades, personally and through his foundation and company, Howard Gilman supported the dancers and choreographers of ABT with his guidance, companionship, encouragement and generosity. We valued and shall always remember his profound appreciation for and keen understanding of the creative process. Having invested so much of himself in the furtherance of dance, he leaves a great legacy to us all, and he will be sorely missed by each member of the ABT family. We extend our deepest condolences to his mother Sylvia and to his many friends at this time of loss. Peter T. Joseph, Chairman Kevin McKenzie, Artistic Director Michael M. Kaiser, Executive Di rector
        GILMAN-Howard. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the passing of Howard Gilman. As a visionary and as a generous benefactor of the arts, as well as a supporter of environmental and endangered species issues, he has had an enormously positive impact on our world. He was a special friend of Juilliard and was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from the School in 1997. Through his grace, cultivated taste and wit, he allowed others to understand better and cherish the most important aspects of our lives. A warm and wonderful man, he will be deeply missed by all members of the Juilliard community. Mary Rodgers Guettel Chairman, Board of Trustees Joseph W. Polisi President
        GILMAN-Howard. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of an exemplary patron of the arts and a great collector. He generously supported the Museum and its collections of photography, architecture and design, painting and sculpture, and drawings. Intelligence and a passion for quality distinguished his dedication to the arts, and he brought grace and wit to every personal encounter. Those who knew him shall remember him warmly, and lovers of art shall forever benefit from his vision and generosity. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, N.Y.
        GILMAN-Howard. The Tel Aviv Foundation and the American Society for the Cameri Theatre mourn with deep sorrow the passing of Howard Gilman, loyal supporter of the City of Tel Aviv. The Honorable Roni Milo, Mayor of Tel Aviv-Yafo David Altman, Managing Director of the Tel Aviv Foundation, Israel, Uzi Zucker, Chairman, American Committee for the Tel Aviv Foundation Miri Nash and Barbara Harris, Tel Aviv Foundation, USA Noam Semel, Director General, Cameri Theatre Tel Aviv and Aaron Ziegelman, Tamar Rudich and the American Society for the Cameri Theatre Board Members
        GILMAN-Howard. It is with great sadness that the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., mourn the passing of Howard Gilman, president of the Howard Gilman Foundation. He was a beloved friend and a thoughtful supporter of this institution. A warm, gracious, and committed benefactor, he will be deeply missed by us and all who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathy to his mother, Sylvia Gilman, and to all his friends. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        GILMAN-Howard. The Board of Directors, staff and company members of New York City Opera are deeply saddened by the death of our devoted friend and generous patron. His imaginative support has helped City Opera present many new and adventurous works. He took risks with us and championed innovation. His vision for the arts, through music, dance and photography, has enriched greatly this city's cultural life. Paul Kellogg General and Artistic Director New York City Opera
        GILMAN-Howard. We salute Howard's vision and leadership in philanthropy and business. He was especially concerned with dancers' injuries and generously supported basic and clinical research for soft tissue and bone injuries and in doing so has helped many people. He will be missed by all of us on the Board of Directors and Medical Board of the Institute for Sports Medicine Research. Louis R. Gary, Board Chairman Stephen J. O'Brien, MD Medical Board, Co-Chairman
        GILMAN-Howard. With great sadness, the Board of Directors and staff of Career Transition for Dancers note the loss of our dear friend, Howard Gilman. He loved dance and he loved dancers. He knew that our art form could only flourish in the long run if individual artists could also flourish, both during and after their dance careers. The lives that have been changed as a result of his caring and generosity are innumerable. We shall miss him. Cynthia Gregory, Chairman
        GILMAN-Howard. The Staff and Board of Directors of God's Love We Deliver are saddened by the loss of Howard Gilman, President of the Howard Gilman Foundation. As an early and longtime supporter, Howard's commitment and compassion directly enriched the lives of thousands of New Yorkers. We extend sincere condolences to his mother and his many friends and associates. Richard E. Feldman, Board Chair Kathy Spahn, Executive Director
        GILMAN-Howard. The Board of Managers and staff of East Side House Settlement express our deepest sorrow at the passing of Mr. Howard Gilman, a generous benefactor since 1978 who was instrumental in the launching of our successful Youth AIDS Awareness Project. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to Mr. Gilman's family. Jack McAlinden, Chairman David L. Duffy, President John A. Sanchez, Executive Dir. East Side House Settlement
        GILMAN-Howard. Willow Cabin Theatre Company is deeply saddened by the loss of Howard Gilman. He was our mentor, patron and beloved friend. It is impossible to express to what extent he has given breath to a young group of artists both collectively and individually in our shared love of beauty and search for meaning. In his final breath, it is our deepest hope he has found both. With all our love, we will miss you Howard.
        GILMAN-Howard. We mourn the loss of Howard Gilman, an impeccable gentleman with a genuine taste for adventure. We will miss his probing intelligence, his curiosity, and his real warmth and caring. He was filled with the true spirit of the NEXT WAVE. He will be deeply missed at BAM. Brooklyn Academy of Music Bruce C. Ratner, Chairman Harvey Lichtenstein, President
        GILMAN-Howard. The Board and Staff of the Film Society of Lincoln Center note with deep sorrow the loss of one of its most generous supporters. Howard's consistent enthusiasm for all of our programs was a source of great encouragement. We will sorely miss his participation and his friendship. Roy Furman, Chairman Irwin W. Young, President Joanne Koch, Executive Director
        GILMAN-Howard. The Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric Aids Foundation is deeply saddened by the passing of our friend Howard Gilman. He was a gracious and caring man who gave so generously. His goodness and gentle spirit will be with us always. From the Board of Directors and Staff of the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric Aids Foundation.
        GILMAN-Howard. We are so deeply saddened by the loss of our beloved friend Howard, who was kindness incarnate. We count ourselves blessed for having been shown a generosity and love which knew no bounds. We will miss him dearly. Tony and Kate Moody Bob Weinstein and Eric Hensley
        GILMAN-Howard. We at La Palestra deeply mourn the passing of Howard Gilman, our cherished friend. His kindness, gentility, generosity and love were ever present for us. We will always carry his spirit with us in all our endeavors. La Palestra.
        GILMAN-Howard. The Board and staff of People For The American Way adds their condolences to the many who shared Howard Gilman's enthusiasms, his concerns and his appreciation of beauty, life, freedom. Norman Lear, Chairman Carole Shields, President
        GILMAN-Howard. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of a dear friend and sincere human being. May beautiful memories be an everlasting benediction. Phillip Rothman, Executive Director
        GILMAN-Howard. Kaatsbaan International Dance Center mourns the loss of Howard Gilman, a friend and an extraordinary patron of dance.
      