
        LOEB-Henry A. Died Tuesday, Jan. 27, at age 90. Survived by his wife, Louise Steinhart Loeb, his children, Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin, his seven grandchildren, his 11 great-grandchildren, and his sister, Margaret Kempner. Interment is private. Services to be held at Tishman Auditorium, The New School, 66 West 12th St., January 30th at 11:30AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to The New School, or to the Mt. Sinai Medical Center.
        LOEB-Henry A. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York express our deep sorrow upon the death of Henry A. Loeb, noted philanthropist, who leaves a legacy of compassion and caring for the community. As chair of the 1964-65 fund-raising campaign of our predecessor organization, the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York, and as a very significant leader for many years, he improved the quality of life for thousands of people in New York City. He has left a rich legacy. His devotion to children was reflected in his service as a Trustee of Ramapo Anchorage Camp, a UJA-Federation beneficiary. A leader committed to the concept of reaching out to the less fortunate as a private and public duty, he fulfilled the spirit of the teaching: ''As previous generations planted for me, so do I plant for the future.'' His dedication to these principles is carried on through the exemplary activities of his daughter, Betty Levin, a former member of the UJA-Federation Board of Directors and the founding chair of our Building Arts Committee. We express our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Louise; his daughters Betty Levin and Jean Troubh; his sister Margaret Kempner; his grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and all members of the family. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        LOEB-Henry A. The Board of Trustees mark with deep sadness the death of Henry A. Loeb, a Life Trustee of the New School, who served the University for almost thirty years with dedication, compassion and generosity of spirit. Founding chair of the Board of Advisors of the Kaplan Center for New York City Affairs, which spawned the Milano Graduate School, he demonstrated his compassionate devotion to the University through his leadership as chair of the Board of Trustees, when he launched the Board's campaign to rebuild the Graduate Faculty. He shaped the New School with his love, farsightedness and intelligent support for the betterment of the University. We will miss his steadfast friendship and the joy and warmth he brought to our community. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Louise, daughter Betty Levin, who continues the Loeb tradition as a New School Trustee, daughter Jean Troubh, and all the members of the Loeb family. Memorial Service will be held at Tishman Auditiorium, New School, 66 West 12th Street on Friday, January 30, at 11:30 A.M. John L. Tishman, Chair, Board of Trustees Jonathan F. Fanton, President, New School
        LOEB-Henry. The staff and Board of Trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services express their deep sorrow at the loss of Henry Loeb, the husband of Honorary Board Trustee Louise Loeb and father of Board Trustee and Executive Committee chair Jean L. Troubh. Mr. Loeb was a well-known philanthropist who was deeply concerned and caring for others and extremely supportive of the work of his wife and daughter with JBFCS. Our outpatient clinic for young children experiencing emotional or developmental difficulties, Louise and Henry Loeb Therapeutic Nursery School, stands as a testimony to the contributions of Henry and Louise Loeb to the New York community. We send our sincere condolences to his wife Louise, daughters Jean Troubh and Betty Levin, and the Loeb family. Joseph S. Kaplan, President Seymour R. Askin, Jr., Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive Vice President
        LOEB-Henry A. Mr. Loeb was elected in 1955 to replace his father, Carl M. Loeb, on the Board of Valeria Home, later renamed, in 1975, as The Jacob and Valeria Langeloth Foundation. He took his duties as a Director with high seriousness. Always punctual, perspicacious and perceptive, he brought to our deliberations his wisdom laced with good humor. As Treasurer since 1959, he shared his broad experience in financial markets and surveyed and supervised our fiscal affairs with skills which will be difficulty to emulate. The Directors of the Langeloth Foundation extend their collective sympathy to Mrs. Loeb and their children. John L. Loeb, Jr, Chairman George Labalme, Jr., President Adam Hochschild, Vice President Peter K. Loeb, Treasurer
        LOEB-Henry A. The Trustees, and staff of The Jewish Museum extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Henry A. Loeb, father of our dedicated trustee, Betty Levin. The family has been closely connected to The Jewish Museum for many years, providing major support and participating in its development and growth. Our heartfelt condolences go to his wife Louise, daughters Betty Levin and Jean Troubh, sister Louise Kempner, and many grandand great-grandchildren. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
        LOEB-Henry A. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of Ramapo Anchorage Camp mourn the passing of Henry A. Loeb, our distinguished past-president and Board member, who for more than fifty years served needy children with great care and dedication. Henry was a kind, wise and gentle man who touched the lives of all those fortunate enough to know him. To his wife Louise, his daughters Jean and Betty, and the entire family, we extend our deepest condolences. Nina P. Freedman, President Bernard Kosberg, Exec. Dir.
        LOEB-Henry. In sorrow, Congretation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Henry Loeb. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        LOEB-Henry A. John A. Levin & Co., Inc. mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague and founding director, Henry Loeb. We will forever be grateful for his strong support and guidance over the years. He will be remembered by all who knew him as a generous, loving and patient person. John A. Levin & Co., Inc.
        LOEB-Henry A. The Trustees and staff of the City Parks Foundation sends its heartfelt condolences to Jean Troubh our President and leader, on the passing of her beloved father. We extend our sympathies to Jean and her entire family. Bruce C. Ratner, Chairman Deborah Landau, Exec Director
        LOEB-Henry. The Members of The Board of Directors and The Officers of Caryle House Inc., mourn the passing of their colleague, friend and neighbor. Heartfelt condolences to his wife and family.
      