
        LOEB-Henry A. Died Tuesday, Jan. 27, at age 90. Survived by his wife, Louise Steinhart Loeb, his children, Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin, his seven grandchildren, his 11 great-grandchildren, and his sister, Margaret Kempner. Interment is private. Services to be held at Tishman Auditorium, The New School, 66 West 12th St., January 30th at 11:30AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to The New School, or to the Mt. Sinai Medical Center.
        LOEB-Henry A. The Board of Trustees mark with deep sadness the death of Henry A. Loeb, a Life Trustee of the New School, who served the University for almost thirty years with dedication, compassion and generosity of spirit. Founding chair of the Board of Advisors of the Kaplan Center for New York City Affairs, which spawned the Milano Graduate School, he demonstrated his compassionate devotion to the University through his leadership as chair of the Board of Trustees, when he launched the Board's campaign to rebuild the Graduate Faculty. He shaped the New School with his love, farsightedness and intelligent support for the betterment of the University. We will miss his steadfast friendship and the joy and warmth he brought to our community. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Louise, daughter Betty Levin, who continues the Loeb tradition as a New School Trustee, daughter Jean Troubh, and all the members of the Loeb family. John L. Tishman, Chair, Board of Trustees Jonathan F. Fanton, President, New School
        LOEB-Henry A. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Trustee, Henry A. Loeb. Mr. Loeb was an active and distinguished Trustee of Mount Sinai for 45 years as well as a generous benefactor who perpetuated medical excellence at Mount Sinai by supporting numerous programs in patient care, research and medical education. His generosity and wisdom will be deeply missed. We extend our sincere sympathies to his wife Louise, daughters Betty Levin, wife of our esteemed Trustee John A. Levin, and Jean Troubh, and the entire Loeb family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Wendy Z. Goldstein, Director
      