
        NEU-Harold Conrad, M.D. Of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY. Husband of Dr. Carmen Neu, father of Maria Rorer, Harold A. Neu and Natalie Neu, M.D. Mass 10 AM Wednesday, St. Matthews Church, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Visiting Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford (Saw Mill Ext 17), Dobbs Ferry, NY Tuesday 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Memorials to Harold C. Neu, M.D., Professorship at Columbia University preferred.
        NEU-Harold Conrad, M.D. The Department of Medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University notes with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Harold Conrad Neu, Professor of Medicine and Pharmacology, whose association with our Department extends back nearly 40 years. An alumnus of Creighton College, a graduate of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, and a subsequent member of the Medical House Staff of The Presbyterian Hospital (where he served in 1964-65 as Chief Resident in Medicine), Dr. Neu gave his entire professional career to unstinting service to patients, to the teaching of medical students and house staff, and to furthering basic knowledge and the intelligent application of new antimicrobial agents to the treatment of infectious diseases. Apart from his distinguished contributions which were formally recognized in his election to membership in The American Society for Clinical Investigation, Dr. Neu served as a superb role model for faculty, house staff and students alike. An internationally renowned authority in his field, his contributions were recently additionally recognized through the establishment of the Harold C. Neu Professorship in the Department of Medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons. Dr. Neu's expertise was matched by his love for his subject, his ebullience and zest for teaching, his generosity towards others and his devotion to and meticulous care of his patients. He bore a protracted and difficult illness with unfailing courage, aided by the valiant and tender support of his wife and entire family. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Dr. Carmen I. Ortiz-Neu, his daughters, Dr. Natalie M. Neu and Maria Neu Rorer, his son, Harold A. Neu, and to his granddaughter, Katherine Rorer. Myron L. Weisfeldt, M.D. Chair, Department of Medicine John N. Loeb, M.D. Associate Chair College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University
        NEU-Harold C., M.D. ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Harold C. Neu. Dr. Neu was one of the world's foremost experts in infectious diseases and served as Chief of the Division of Infectious Diseases. Having served the medical center for more than thirty years, Dr. Neu will be remembered by countless patients, students, fellow clinicians, researchers and other colleagues. As Hospital Epidemiologist for decades, Dr. Neu was responsible for assuring the hospital's infection control. He trained a generation of clinicians and was a pioneer in addressing the issues of the overuse of antibiotics and drug-resistant bacteria. Dr. New may be missed most by the patients who benefited from his kind manner and astute clinical expertise. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Dr. Carmen Ortiz-Neu, his children and grandaughter. Memorial contributions may be sent to the Harold C. Neu Professorship, Columbia University, 630 W. 168th St, Box 55, New York, NY 10031. William T. Speck, MD, President and Chief Operating Officer The New York and Presbyterian Hospital Herbert Pardes, MD, Vice-Preskient for Health Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine Columbia University
      