
        LOEB-Henry A. Died Tuesday, Jan. 27, at age 90. Survived by his wife, Louise Steinhart Loeb, his children, Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin, his seven grandchildren, his 11 great-grandchildren, and his sister, Margaret Kempner. Interment is private. Services to be held at Tishman Auditorium, The New School, 66 West 12th St., January 30th at 11:30AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to The New School, or to the Mt. Sinai Medical Center.
        LOEB-Henry A. The Board of Trustees mark with deep sadness the death of Henry A. Loeb, a Life Trustee of the New School, who served the University for almost thirty years with dedication, compassion and generosity of spirit. Founding chair of the Board of Advisors of the Kaplan Center for New York City Affairs, which spawned the Milano Graduate School, he demonstrated his compassionate devotion to the University through his leadership as chair of the Board of Trustees, when he launched the Board's campaign to rebuild the Graduate Faculty. He shaped the New School with his love, farsightedness and intelligent support for the betterment of the University. We will miss his steadfast friendship and the joy and warmth he brought to our community. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Louise, daughter Betty Levin, who continues the Loeb tradition as a New School Trustee, daughter Jean Troubh, and all the members of the Loeb family. Memorial Service will be held at Tishman Auditiorium, New School, 66 West 12th Street on Friday, January 30, at 11:30 A.M. John L. Tishman, Chair, Board of Trustees Jonathan F. Fanton, President, New School
        LOEB-Henry A. Mr. Loeb was elected in 1955 to replace his father, Carl M. Loeb, on the Board of Valeria Home, later renamed, in 1975, as The Jacob and Valeria Langeloth Foundation. He took his duties as a Director with high seriousness. Always punctual, perspicacious and perceptive, he brought to our deliberations his wisdom laced with good humor. As Treasurer since 1959, he shared his broad experience in financial markets and surveyed and supervised our fiscal affairs with skills which will be difficult to emulate. The Directors of the Langeloth Foundation extend their collective sympathy to Mrs. Loeb and their children. John L. Loeb, Jr, Chairman George Labalme, Jr., President Adam Hochschild, Vice President Peter K. Loeb, Treasurer
      