
        RUSKAY-Shira. On Jan. 6, 1998. At the age of 52. A remarkable woman. Accomplished in the fields of Special Education, Law (Assistant U.S. attorney), and Social work. Since 1989, A Clinician and Social Work Coordinator for the Visiting Nurse Service Hospice, who also maintained a private practice. Above all, Shira was a woman with a beautiful soul, who connected and enabled scores of others to connect to that which is abiding, truthful and meaningful. Those who grieve include her husband John, her dear children, Darone Moshe and Ilana Sara RuskayKidd, her son-in-law Scott RuskayKidd, her parents, Rabbi. Sidney and Hilda Greenberg, her sisters, Reena Keren Adena Greenberg, and countless other relatives, friends and colleagues. Funeral Thursday, Jan. 8, 11:30 A.M. at the Society For The Advancement of Judaism, 15 W. 86 Street. Contributions may be made to establish The Shira Ruskay Professional Development Fund at Visiting Nurse Service Hospice, 107 East 70 Street, New York, New York 10021.
        RUSKAY-Shira Greenberg. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York deeply mourn the untimely passing of Shira Greeenberg Ruskay, wife of Dr. John Ruskay, a Chief Operating Officer of UJAFederation of New York. An accomplished attorney and social worker, she blended her professional knowledge with compassion for human life. These qualities led her to specialize in spiritual counseling for the terminally ill, bringing a special kind of caring to the needy and helpless. Together with her husband, she brought rare dedication and remarkable leadership to many humanitarian organizations, as well as serving as a role model for the community. Her gentleness and strength enriched the lives of everyone who knew her. She was a true eseth chayil. Our condolences go to Dr. Ruskay; her children, Daron, Ilana and her husband, Scott; her sisters, Rena and Adina; her father, Rabbi Sidney Greenberg; her mother, Hilda; and the entire family. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P. Misha Galperin, Co-Chief Operating Officer
        RUSKAY-Shira. The entire Heschel community is deeply grieved by the loss of the beloved wife of our treasured founding trustee, John Ruskay. Shira's life will always shine as an example of Hesed, that loving kindness which bound her so intimately to God. Our love to you John, your children, Darone, Ilana and Scott and to all members of your family. May her memory always serve as a blessing. Terry Ann Krulwich, President Roanna Shorofsky, Director Peter A. Geffen, Founder The Abraham Joshua Heschel School
        RUSKAY-Shira. The Staff and Board of Directors of The Greater Five Towns YM and YWHA mourns the death of the beloved wife of our esteemed friend and colleague, Dr. John Ruskay, COO of UJA-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies. We extend our deepest love and sympathy to the entire family. Carol Harrison, President Jerry Wolkoff, ACSW Executive Director
        RUSKAY-Shira. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of our friend Shira Ruskay. Our hearts and prayers go out to her husband John, son Daron, daughter Ilana, and the rest of the family. May her memory be a blessing to all who loved her. Philip Milstein, President Joseph Leff, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        RUSKAY-Shira. The Faculty of the Family Institute of Westchester mourns the loss of our student and colleague. Her courage and wisdom have been an inspiration to us. May her family find comfort in the memory of this extraordinary woman. Betty Carter, Founder Elliott J. Rosen, Director
        RUSKAY-Shira. The Society for the Advancement of Judaism notes with profound sorrow the death of Shira Ruskay, longtime honorary member. We extend our sincere condolences to her entire family. Julie Schonfeld, Rabbi Lawrence Budish, Bd. Chm.
      