
        PERRY-William G., Jr. February 13, 1913-January 12, 1998. Professor of Education and founder of Harvard's Bureau of Study Counsel, died of pneumonia on January 12, 1998, in Boston. Mr. Perry began his life-long relationship with Harvard University as an undergraduate, receiving his B.A. in English and Greek in 1935, and his M.A. in English in 1940. Mr. Perry's father, William Graves Perry, Sr., Harvard class of 1905, was the architect who worked on the restoration of Williamsburg, VA, and designed many Harvard buildings, including the Houghton Rare Book Library. Mr. Perry taught English, History, and study skills at the Rivers School in Brookline, MA, from 1935 to 1940. In 1941, at Williams College, he was Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in English. During World War II, as an experienced sailor, he taught celestial navigation to naval pilots, none of whom were subseqently lost due to navigational errors. Mr. Perry founded the Bureau of Study Counsel at Harvard College in 1947, melding several student services into a center for counseling and tutoring. He and his staff counseled approximately 400 students a year. He was noted for his support of student's strengths as they confronted Harvard's curriculum, explaining he did not feel overwhelmed listening to ''problems all day.'' Instead, he said, he ''listened to courage in action.'' His closeness to students, and recognition of common themes in their experience allowed Mr. Perry to develop a map of the cognitive and moral development of undergraduates as they encountered the complexities and challenges of a liberal arts education. His book, ''Forms of Intellectual and Ethical Development in the College Years'' (1970) described nine developmental stages. His framework started with a freshman's simplistic adherence to notions of absolute truth and morality, traced the discovery of multiple frames of reference regarding data, and the upperclassman's subsequent growth and eventual achievement of personal and ethical commitment in a relative world. This developmental framework has had nation-wide impact on the theories of the psychological development of late adolescence. His research validating this developmental scheme led to his appointment as a full Professor of Education in the Harvard Graduate School of Education (1965-1979). His teaching about the counseling process and the role of empathy influenced many graduate students over the course of thirty years. A man of diverse interests, his translation, with Alston Hurd Chase, of Homer's ''Iliad'' was published in 1950. Classical scholar Dudley Fitts in his New York Times book review, described it as the best prose translation of this century. Mr. Perry's other publications include articles on topics ranging from conflicts in the learning process to essays on counseling and psychotherapy. His ironic piece on the role of ''bull'' in undergraduate epistemology, ''Examsmanship and the Liberal Arts,'' has been included in the ''Norton Anthology of American Literature.'' Family and friends remember Mr. Perry as a formidable raconteur, sailor, horseman, boat designer and carpenter, and a man deeply committed to the conservation of the salt marshes of Massachusetts, ''despite the greenhead flies.'' Mr. Perry is described as exhibiting a vigor and love of life, inviting participation in whatever project was at hand, and encouraging others to enjoy learning about themselves. Mr. Perry is survived by: his wife, Mary (Hughes Frank) of Watertown, MA, his daughter, Dr. Lee Perry of Los Altos, CA, his stepson, Kevin Frank of Holderness, NH, and his step-grandson, Brendan Frank of Boston, MA. His first wife, Helen Knowles, his son, Edmund Graves Perry, and his stepson, Colin Frank, predeceased him. The memorial service will be held at 2 PM, Sunday, January 18, at the First Parish Church Unitarian of Cambridge. In lieu of flowers, donations to the American Civil Liberties Union or to UNICEF would be appreciated.
      