
        MEYER-Sandra W. We mourn the death of our beloved mother, sister, daughter and aunt. She will always be loved and remembered for the extraodinary person she was. Memorial service 4 PM, on Monday, January 19, Lincoln Center Theater, New York, NY. The family will be receiving visitors at 271 Central Park West, apt 11W on January 5, 6 and 7 from 10AM to 2PM and from 4PM to 8PM. In lieu of flowers charitable contributions may be made to the Sandra W. Meyer Foundation, 150 East 77 St., apt 2E, New York, N.Y. 10021.
        MEYER-Sandra W. The Board and Staff of the Metropolitan Opera Guild wish to record their deep sorrow at the death of their colleague and friend, Sandra W. Meyer. A member of the Guild Board since 1980, at the time of her death she was First Vice President of the Guild. Endowed with abundant energy, wisdom and kindness, she lavished all these qualities on her work for the Guild and for the Metropolitan Opera Association, on whose Board, she also served as Managing Director. As Chair of the Metropolitan Opera/Metropolian Opera Guild Membership Committee, she worked tirelessly to promote collegiality and mutual respect between the Association and the Guild and to ensure recognition of the interests of the Met's nationwide membership. A woman of indomitable courage, she will be remembered by all members of the Met family as a warm friend and valued counselor. Thomas J. Hubbard, Chairman Alton E. Peters, President Rudolph S. Rauch, Managing Dir.
        MEYER-Sandra W. The Metropolitan Opera mourns with profound sadness the passing of Sandra W. Meyer, a devoted member of our Association for 15 years, including service as a Director of our Managing Board since 1986. We are deeply grateful for her dedicated commitment to the Metropolitan Opera. Her creative leadership of the Metropolitan Opera/Metropolitan Opera Guild Membership Committee for more than a decade inspired the expansion of our programs to build audiences for the Met and to stimulate broad nationwide support for our activities. Her courageous and energetic participation in our affairs when faced with the challenges of serious illness set an example of public service that will be remembered by all of us who worked with her and were privileged to know her as a friend and colleague. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. The Metropolitan Opera Association
        MEYER-Sandra W. The Board of Trustees, the President and CEO, the staff and faculty of World Learning are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of Sandra Meyer, a Trustee of the organization and loyal and long time friend of the Experiment in International Living. We send our heartfelt condolences to her family. Stephen Lowey, Chair Judy Hendren Mello, President
      