
        HOLLAND-Jack. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with sorrow the passing of a respected member of our Society of Founders, who with his family, did much to enhance the educational and research programs at our institution. To his children, Stephen and Margot, and Richard and Lila, to his brother, Emil, and to his entire family, we offer our profound sympathy. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        HOLLAND-Jack. The Orkin family mourns the loss of our beloved uncle Jack. Cherished brother of Sylvia Holland Orkin and loving uncle of Fred and Susan Orkin and their children Jennifer and Jeffrey and of Stuart and Roslyn Orkin and their daughter Jane. Uncle Jack's strength, generosity and devotion to family will always be remembered.
        HOLLAND-Jack. The employees or Riverton Associates wish to extend to the Holland family our sincerest and deepest sympathy on the loss of Jack Holland. He will always be remembered in our hearts. The Riverton Associates Employees
        HOLLAND-Jack. We wish to extend our condolences to the family of Jack Holland, his brother Emil and sons Stephen and Richard and their families. We lost a respected business colleague and dear friend. May he rest in peace with his lovely wife. Alice and Andrew Giffuni
        HOLLAND-Jack J. All of us at Jackson Management are deeply saddened by the loss of our founder and friend. Jack's leadership, wisdom and guidance were the building blocks of our organization. We will continue to build on the foundation of his legacy. Jackson Management
        HOLLAND-Jack. The friendship we developed as kids lasted us a lifetime. We will miss you as we do Natalie. Shirley and Danny Rubin
        HOLLAND-Jack J. Poppy, thank you for making it possible for us to live the lives of our dreams. We love you, Leslie & Adam
        HOLLAND-John J. 60, C.P.A., of Wilton, CT, died January 15, 1998 from a heart attack on January 4 at his Scottsdale, Arizona residence. Loving husband of Mary T. Holland and father of Maribeth and Sean of NYC. Mr. Holland had an accounting, tax and advisory practice for over 10 years in the tri-state area and Arizona. Visitation F. Hoyt Funeral Home, 199 Main St., New Canaan, CT, Tuesday, January 20, 5-9 PM. Mass at Our Lady of Fatima R.C. Church, Wilton, CT, Wednesday, January 21, 10:30 AM.
      