
        ELLIS-John Taylor, MD. January 10th, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence. Born Lufkin, Texas, 1920; graduated from Univ. of Texas Austin and Northwestern Univ. Medical School, Chicago. Captain, Brooke General Hospital, San Antonio. Came to Cornel Univ. Medical College, 1948, in Pathology. Remained there until 1994, except for six years, Chairman 1962-68, Emory Univ. Medical School, Atlanta; serving as consultant, NY Hospital Medical Center, Queens, 1994-97. Devoted husband for 55 years of Marian Caldwell. Father of Evelyn Floy, George Caldwell and John Taylor IV. Loving grandfather of Adrienne and Katherine of NY, Evan, Kelsey and Jesse of Rhode Island. Burial in Dallas, TX.
        ELLIS-John T., M.D. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of Cornell University Medical College and The New York and Presbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved friend and colleague, John T. Ellis. A gifted researcher, academician and educator, Dr. Ellis was Chairman of Pathology and Pathologist-in-Chief at Cornell University Medical College and The New York Hospital from 1968 through 1994, and served as a consultant to the institutions after his retirement. His wit and compassion endeared him to generations of medical students who were fortunate to have him as a professor. His love of science and pursuit of academic interests greatly advanced the field of pathology. We join all those who knew him in mourning his loss. Our deepest condolences are extended to his wife, Marian; his children, Evelyn, George and John; his five grandchildren; and to all members of the Ellis family. Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Cornell University Medical College Antonio M. Gotto, Jr., M.D. Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean Cornell University Medical College John F. McGillicuddy Co-Chairman, Board of Directors The New York and Presbyterian Hospital David B. Skinner, M.D. Vice Chairman and CEO The New York and Presbyterian Hospital Daniel M. Knowles, M.D. Chairman, Dept of Pathology Cornell University Medical College
      