
        RIESENFELD-William A. The Officers, Board members and the entire Beth Abraham Health Services community are profoundly saddened by the death of William Riesenfeld and mourn his passing. Bill approached everything he did with commitment and dedication, whether it was sports fishing (he held several world records) or competing in Squash (he was nationaly ranked) or emersing himself in health care. As a member of the Beth Abraham board since 1972, retiring as Chairman in 1996, he gave generously of himself, his time and knowledge. His guidance was of particular value in the area of real estate. He had a strong sense of humanity and displayed great empathy when visiting our patients. We will miss his wisdom and counsel and always cherish his memory. Edwin H. Stern, III Chairman, Board of Directors BETHCO Michael R. Potack Chairman, Board of Directors Beth Abraham Health Services William H. Frohlich President Beth Abraham Health Services
        RIESENFELD-William A. The President and the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are deeply saddened by the death of William A. Riesenfeld, an esteemed colleague and respected member of our board for more than 30 years. Mr. Riesenfeld's longstanding commitment to health care and support of the medical center is acknowledged with appreciation. He will be missed by all whose lives he touched. Spencer Foreman, MD, President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        RIESENFELD-William A. On January 15th, in New York City. A 1946 graduate of Yale University, Bill was active in The Yale Club of New York City and a member of its Council, as well as a Trustee of Montefiore Hospital and Medical Center. He was also an avid sportsman, who was ranked nationally in squash racquets and held numerous world's records in game fishing. All of us who loved him mourn his passing. Services private. Contributions may be made to The Yale Club Scholarship Fund, c/o The Yale Club of New York City, 50 Vanderbilt Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017.
      