
        BERMAN-Herbert. The Officers, Board of Directors and the Staff of the America-Israel Friendship League, deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague Herbert Berman, a long time supporter and Treasurer of our organization. His life of dedication to the Jewish People, the State of Israel and to many other worthy civic and philanthropic causes will forever serve as a source of inspiration to all of us. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Daisy, his children Sara, Debra and Nathaniel and the entire family. Mortimer B. Zuckerman, President Kenneth J. Bialkin, Chairman of the Board Stanley A. Urman, Senior Executive Vice-President Ilana Artman Executive Vice-President
        BERMAN-Herbert. The American Friends of The Open University of Israel notes with deep sorrow the passing of our good friend, Executive Committee member and Founders Society member, Herbert Berman. His generosity, guiding hand and smiling face shall be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathies go out to Daisy and the fa mily. His loss will be felt deeply by all who cherish Israel, education and Jewish values. Irving M. Rosenbaum, National Chairman A. Arthur Sherman and Robert de Rothschild, Founders Society Co-Chairmen Eric G. Heffler, Executive Vice President
        BERMAN-Herbert. The entire City University of New York mourns the passing of former trustee Herbert Berman, who served the University system with extraordinary distinction, honor and commitment. His dedication to education, and the cultural life of our city as well as his devotion to numerous individual colleges, remains an enduring source of inspiration and support. He will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Chairwoman Anne A. Paolucci Board of Trustees Interim Chancellor Christoph Kimmich
        BERMAN-Herbert. The officers, Board of Trustees and staff of The Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture mourn the death of Herbert Berman. Mr. Berman, who served for many years on the Foundation's Board and its Investment Committee, was deeply committed to the Foundation's work of intensifying and disseminating Jewish culture around the world. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Daisy, his children and family. Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, President Dr. Jerry Hochbaum, Executive Vice President
        BERMAN-Herbert. The North American Conference on Ethiopian Jewry, mourns the lost of its esteemed Board member, friend and counselor. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Richard A. Giesberg, President Middie Giesberg, Chair
        BERMAN-Herbert. PEF Israel Endowment Funds, Inc mourns the passing of our long time Trustee. He was invaluable in advising on investments and charities in Israel.
      