
        HOLLAND-Jack J. Beloved husband of the late Natalie. Loving father of Stephen and Margot, and Richard and Lila. Cherished grandfather of Elizabeth and Al, Joshua, Leslie, Adam and Lisa, and great-grandfather of Zoe. Dear brother of Emil and Sylvia, and the late Louis and Sadie. Cherished uncle. Services ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave., NYC, 11:15 AM, Friday.
        HOLLAND-Jack. We mourn the passing of a cherished friend, whose close association with our family spanned three generations. We will deeply miss a wise and special man. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the family. The Sollar and Eisen Families
        HOLLAND-Jack. Fight For Sight, Inc., mourns the loss of our longtime benefactor and father of our esteemed Board member Stephen Holland. Board of Trustees Fight For Sight, Inc.
        HOLLAND-Jack J. With deep sorrow and regret, Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center records the passing of Jack J. Holland, a dear friend, benefactor, and distinguished Vice President of our Board of Trustees, and President Emeritus of Rutland Nursing Home. During his 70-year association with the Medical Center, Mr. Holland served in numerous distinguished capacities, including President of the Rutland Nursing Home, Anniversary Dinner Chairman, Chairman of the Building Committee and Chairman of the Long-Range Planning and Development Committee. His leadership was crucial to the progress and development of the Medical Center. The Medical Center's synagogue/chapel and the lifeline promenade in the Briger Pavillion were made possible by the generosity of Jack Holland and his family and shall be lasting tributes to the Holland family's dedication to our institution. To Jack Holland's loving sons, Richard and Stephen, daughters-in-law Lila and Margot, and grandchildren, Elizabeth Weiss, Joshua Holland, Leslie Holland and Adam Holland, and great-grandchild, Zoe, we offer the warm condolences of bereaved friends who share in their tremendous loss. We shall deeply miss him. Robert J. Benowitz, Esq. President David Minkin, President Emeritus Stanley Mandel, Chairman Board of Trustees Herbert Yassky, President Rutland Nursing Home Milton M. Gutman, CEO Mohammad Zahir, M.D. Executive Medical Advisor
        HOLLAND-Jack. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a cherished member of its extended family. Mr. Holland, together with his late wife Natalie, were noted figures in the philanthropic world who shared their blessings to improve the quality of life for countless others. The Hollands were Chai Founders whose support of Boys Town spans three decades, providing disadvantaged Israeli youth with a brighter future. The individual and collective achievements of Boys Town's students benefiting from the Holland's generosity will remain as a lasting tribute. We extend heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Vice Chairman Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Executive Vice President
        HOLLAND-Jack. The Officers and the Board of Directors of America-Israel Friendship League mourn the passing of our longtime friend and supporter, Jack Holland. Our sincere condolences to his sons, Richard and Steve, his grandchildren, and the entire family. Mortimer B. Zuckerman, President Kenneth J. Bialkin, Chairman of the Board Stanley A. Urman, Senior Executive Vice-President Ilana Artman Executive Vice-President
        HOLLAND - Jack J. Lester Schwab Katz & Dwyer mourns the loss of a dear friend, Jack J. Holland. Philanthropist, Vice President of Board of Trustees of Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center and President Emeritus of Rutland Nursing Home. We extend our deepest condolences to his family, his sons, Richard and Stephen, daughters-in-law, Lila and Margot and grandchildren, Elizabeth, Joshua, Leslie, and Adam, grandchild, Zoe, and to his friends and colleagues. Lester Schwab Katz & Dwyer
        HOLLAND-Jack. The College of New Rochelle community records with sadness the death of Jack Holland, beloved friend of the College and father of trustee, Stephen Holland. We extend our sympathy to Stephen and Margot, Richard and Lila, and to all the members of the Holland family. We mourn his loss and celebrate his life. Mauro C. Romita, Esq., Chair, Board of Trustees Stephen J. Sweeny, Ph.D., Pres. College of New Rochelle
        HOLLAND-Jack. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of its esteemed patron Jack Holland and extend sincerest condolences to the entire family. We were privileged to be among the beneficiaries of his generosity and devotion to Israel. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor
        HOLLAND-Jack J. It is with deep sorrow that I mourn the profound loss of a very dear friend and business associate, Jack J. Holland. He was a true gentleman, a great benefactor and a very dear friend of many long years. He will be missed greatly. My condolences to his children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. David Minkin
        HOLLAND-Jack. The Orkin family mourns the loss of our beloved uncle Jack. Cherished brother of Sylvia Holland Orkin and loving uncle of Fred and Susan Orkin and their children Jennifer and Jeffrey and of Stuart and Roslyn Orkin and their daughter Jane. Uncle Jack's strength, generosity and devotion to family will always be remembered.
        HOLLAND-Jack. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Five Towns Community Chest extend our deepest sympathy to the family of Richard and Lila Holland, past Honorees and former Chairlady of our Board of Directors, on the loss of Richard's father, Jack Holland.
        HOLLAND-Jack J. All of us at Jackson Management are deeply saddened by the loss of our founder and friend. Jack's leadership, wisdom and guidance were the building blocks of our organization. We will continue to build on the foundation of his legacy. Jackson Management
        HOLLAND-Jack. The partners and staff of Spector Rothenberg & Co. express their condolences on the passing of Jack Holland. Our deepest sympathy is extended to Richard and Stephen and the entire Holland family. He will be greatly missed in our community.
        HOLLAND-Jack. The Siegel family mourns the passing of our dear friend, Jack Holland. Our sincere condolences to Richard, Stephen and the entire Holland family. Beatrice, Alice, George, Andrew, Howard and Jim Siegel
        HOLLAND-Jack. The Zatt family remembers with love and appreciation Uncle Jack's generosity, care and wisdom. Beloved brother of the late Sadie Zatt. Dear uncle of Susan Weinberg, Lionel and Naomi Zatt and their children.
        HOLLAND-Jack. The Greenblatt family mourns the loss of our dear friend of over sixty-seven years. We extend our deepest condolences to Stephen, Richard and the entire Holland family. Syd, Linda, Ira, Ann and John
        HOLLAND-Jack. The families of Kaskel, Schragis and Roe express our deepest sympathy to Richard and Steven. Your father was a dear friend, we will miss him.
        HOLLAND-Jack. We remember our beloved uncle with fondest memories. Cora and Ted Ginsberg & Family Dede and Michael Thea & Family
        HOLLAND-Jack. Beloved best friend of Florrie and H.T.-loved by all of his extended family. Barry Tenzer and Family Diane and Michael Schachter
        HOLLAND-Jack J. Poppy, thank you for making it possible for us to live the lives of our dreams. We love you, Leslie & Adam
      