
        BARRETT-Dorothy Pratt Register. Died in her Hillsborough home on Tuesday morning, February 10. She is survived by her daughter, Barbara Register, her son, Eliot Steven Barrett and eleven grandchildren: Alexander Barrett of New York, Cessna Barrett of Napa Valley, California, Deming de Grunne of New York, Robin Larned of Marina del Rey, California, Alison Register of Lexington, Kentucky, David Register of Seattle, Washington, Kathryn Register of Malibu, California, Kyle Register of Aiken, South Carolina, Layton Register of Lexington, Kentucky, Leslie Register of Cardiff, California, Peter Register of Los Angeles, California and Stepson, Charles Barrett of Napa Valley, California. Mrs. Barrett was predeceased by two of her sons, Samuel Croft Register and John Sherman Register. Mrs. Barrett was born Dorothy Deming Pratt in Brooklyn, New York on November 1, 1909 to George and Helen Pratt of Glen Cove, Long Island. Her grandfather, Charles Pratt was one of John D. Rockefeller's partners in the formation of the Standard Oil Company, (which is now Exxon), Charles Pratt & Company in New York City and Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York was also founded by her grandfather. She attended Miss Hall's School and Vassar College and was a highly skilled horsewoman, sailor and fisherman. In 1932, Dorothy Deming Pratt was married to Samuel Croft Register. They had three children, Samuel Croft Register, Jr, John S. Register and Barbara Register. They were divorced in 1940 and Mrs. Barrett moved to Southern California where she met and married Dr. William G. Barrett in 1942 and gave birth to Eliot Steven Barrett in 1943. She moved to San Mateo County in the 1950's and started a thoroughbred horse farm on extensive acreage in Hillsborough which she named Eucalyptus Hill. The farm enjoyed a fine reputation for breeding and boarding and is believed to have been the first of its kind in San Mateo County. Aragon High School of San Mateo is situated on a portion of that farm's original site. In the 1970's, she moved her thoroughbred horse operations to Once Over Farm in Morgan Hill where she still maintains horses and provides boarding and training services to thoroughbreds. Dorothy Pratt Barrett was a member of the Burlingame Country Club. She had many philanthropic interests, enjoyed a good hand of bridge and frequent trips to Once Over Farm to see her horses. A Memorial Service will be held at the First Presbyterian Church, Glen Cove, Long Island, New York at 11 AM, on February 21st. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be sent to Pratt Institute, 200 Willoughby Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11205.
      