
        LEVY-Senator Norman J. The partners, attorneys and staff at Certilman Balin Adler & Hyman, LLP., mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and Counsel, Norman Levy. We are grateful for the ever-present inspiration and wisdom he provided during his more than twenty years of service with our firm. He was a mentor, teacher and great friend, and we will miss his vision and guidance. He will be missed within the halls of the Senate, and by the thousands of people he served. To his adoring wife, Joy, we offer our heartfelt sympathies. Her devotion and support were a source of strength to him during his distinguished career. Norman Levy's memory and legacy will live forever in our hearts, and in our minds. In his honor we are establishing the Senator Norman J. Levy Government Services Internship Program at Hofstra University.
        LEVY-Norman J. The entire Nassau Association for the Help of Retarded Children family mourns the death of New York State Senator Norman J. Levy. A recipient of AHRC's Humanitarian Award in 1979, Senator Levy was an invaluable friend and longtime member of this Association. He showed his sincere commitment to protecting the rights of all individuals with mental retardation and other developmental disabilities and their families in many ways. Our deepest sympathy to his family and friends. Jack Garofalo, President Michael Mascari, Exec Director Association for the Help of Retarded Children, Nassau County Chapter
        LEVY-Norman J. It is with deep sorrow that the United Cerebral Palsy Association of Nassau County, Inc. records the passing of State Senator Norman Levy. Senator Levy was a strong advocate for individuals with disabilities. His caring and compassion will be greatly missed. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family Sidney Schwartz, Association President Delia Paranos, Council President Robert McGuire, Executive Director
        LEVY-Senator Norman J. We are heartbroken over the untimely loss of our cherished and irreplaceable friend Norman Levy. We will all be deprived of his wisdom, gentility and compassion. Our hearts go out to his precious wife, Joy. May she derive comfort knowing that Norman is among the immortals of New York State history and that he was always loved, admired and respected. Norman enriched all our lives and will never be forgotten. Shelby and Bill Modell And the entire Modell Family
        LEVY-Norman J., Senator. He was our mentor, confidant, roll model, law partner, and most of all good friend. His deeds touched the lives of so many people, it is difficult to comprehend the void being left in Long Island's fabric. Our hearts go out to Joy, together with our wishes that she will remain strong and resolute. Joyce and Morton Certilman and family
        LEVY-Norman J. Dear Norman, we will always cherish the wonderful memories of the many years that you were a part of our lives. The Hornstein Family Francine and Larry Meryl, Mark and David
        LEVY-Senator Norman J. We mourn the tragic death of a dear friend. Through his leadership in the Senate, Norman became a benefactor to all the hearing and speech impaired of Long Island and through his co-sponsorship of legislation for Universal Hearing Screening, he offered a helping hand to future generations. A close friend and neighbor, Norman will be grievously missed by all the directors of the Long Island Hearing and Speech Society and particularly by Larry Hornstein, Jonathan Leigh and David Lesser
      