
        ROBBINS-Bernard, M.D. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice. Loving brother of Dr. Edward Robbins. Services 1 P.M., Wednesday at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        ROBBINS-Barnard, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family expresses its deep sorrow over the passing of Barnard Robbins, M.D., our dear friend and beloved colleague. In addition to his distinguished career as a Clinician, Dr. Robbins demonstrated philanthropic devotion to the field of medicine and to Beth Israel. In recognition of his generosity, the Orthopaedic Suite at The Phillips Ambulatory Care Center bears his name and honors the memory of his late wife, Beatrice. Dr. Robbins was a giving individual and a true inspiration to others. To his family and loved ones, our heartfelt condolences. Morton P Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President and CEO Jerome S. Breslaw, M.D., President, Medical Board Eli Bryk, M.D., Assoc Chairman, Orthopaedic Surgery
        ROBBINS-Barnard, M.D. The Physicians and Staff of The Methadone Maintenance Treatment Program of Beth Israel Medical Center acknowledge with sadness the passing of our friend and colleague, Barnard Robbins, M.D., who served with great distinction and in numerous roles, as a member of our Medical Staff. He forever will be remembered by those who knew and worked with him, for his tireless commitment to the well-being of our patients. Our sympathies to his family and friends. Marie Marciano, Administrator Beverly L. Richman, M.D., Chief of Medical Services
        ROBBINS-Bernard H., M.D. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Bernard H. Robbins, M.D. His compassion and concern for those less fortunate will live on in the generous gifts he created for their benefit through UJA-Federation, and Beth Israel Medical Center, a UJAFederation beneficiary. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Beatrice Goldstein Robbins, and the entire family. Services 1 P.M., Wednesday, February 25, at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and 76th Street. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
      