
        HAXALL-Elizabeth Dodge Rains-ford. Granddaughter of Cleveland H. Dodge, friend and benefactor to President Wilson, and daughter of Cleveland E. and Pauline Morgan Dodge, generous benefactors of numerous New York institutions including the YWCA, Museum of Natural History, Bronx Zoo, The Bronx Botanical Gardens and Teachers College, died early Sunday morning, February 8, in her sleep at Collington, a retirement community in Mitchellville, MD. Born in Riverdale, New York in 1920, Mrs. Haxall was home schooled until her family founded Riverdale Neighborhood School. There, under the tutelage of such gifted teachers as a young Vincent Price, she discovered her affinity for art. Later, she attended Holmquist School for Girls, where she was a student leader. She studied at Wells College for one year before enrolling at the American Academy of Fine Arts in New York City, where she distinguished herself, winning various awards, including the Medal for Advanced Pictorial Design. In 1942, Elizabeth Haxall was married to Mark Rainsford, who was killed during World War II. She later married Bolling W. Haxall in 1947. Mrs. Haxall carried on her family's tradition of community service by serving on the Board of Trustees of New York YMCA and Holmquist School in the early 1940's. Later, she served on the boards of Solebury School, the American Museum of Natural History Women's Committee, the New York Girl Scouts Committee, and Riverdale Neighbor House, having twice been awarded the Good Neighbor Award. For generations, her family, the Morgans and Dodges, were longtime summer residents of the 1000 Islands, where she and her late husband, Bolling Haxall, were founders and major benefactors of the Antique Boat Museum, the 1000 Islands Craft School and the Old Town Hall Museum in Clayton, New York. Mrs. Haxall is survived by her brother Cleveland E. Dodge, Jr. of Pownal, VT, her sister Joan Rueckert of Hanover, NH, and her four children, Gale D'Luhy of Spring Lake, NJ, Polly MacLean of Rowe, MA, Bolling Haxall, Jr of Upper Marlboro, MD, and Barton Haxall of Clayton, NY. Mrs. Haxall is also survived by nine grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, you may send gifts to the Antique Boat Museum, Clayton, New York, which is dedicating its new Library to the memory of Elizabeth and Bolling Haxall.
      