
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. Beloved husband of Jacqueline. Devoted father of Michael and the late Barbara Bruckner. Loving grandfather of Robert and James Bruckner, Maxwell and Ethan. Service Thursday, 11:30 AM at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th St. and Madison Avenue. For further information call Plaza Memorial Chapel, 212769-4400. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Columbia Law School or the Central Park Conservancy would be appreciated.
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. His partners and friends at Moses & Singer LLP wish to express their profound sense of loss at the passing of Henry Schneider, who joined Moses & Singer in 1934 after graduating with honors from Columbia Law School where he was a member of the Law Review. Henry was an exemplar of the attorney as counselor who brought a rare combination of uncommon good sense and extraordinary legal acumen to all who were fortunate enough to receive his counsel. Henry was active in philanthropy throughout his life. As President of the Henry and Lucy Moses Fund and as a long-time advisor to the noted philanthropist, Lucy G. Moses, Henry made matchless contributions to the welfare of New York City and its residents. He was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Elaine Kaufman Cultural Center and played a major role in the creation of the Lucy Moses School for Music and Dance. Henry was also a Trustee of the Central Park Conservancy and a pioneer in efforts to improve Central Park. He was a lifelong supporter of Columbia University and was instrumental in the creation of the Chairs now held by the Dean of Columbia College and the Dean of Columbia Law School. Montefiore Medical Center, Mount Sinai Medical Center and UJA-Federation are only a few of the many other organizations which benefitted from his charitable efforts. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved wife, Jackie, his son, Michael, his daughter-in-law, Jean Consuelo Kelley and his grandsons, Ethan, James, Maxwell and Robert. We shall miss him.
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Henry Schneider, a very generous supporter and cherished friend who will be greatly missed. As President and Treasurer of the Henry and Lucy Moses Fund, he was dedicated to alleviating human suffering through the Fund's incomparable support of medical research, treatment and education. The Fund's magnificent contributions to our beneficiary agencies will be felt for generations to come. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Jacqueline, his son, Michael, and his four grandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        SCHNEIDER - Henry. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center note with deep sadness the death of Henry Schneider, a great friend of many years, Mr. Schneider was instrumental in facilitating generous support for numerous Mount Sinai programs and services. A longtime member of our Committee of 1000, he will be remembered fondly for his ardent devotion to furthering Mount Sinai's mission of excellence in clinical care, scientific research and medical education. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife, Jacqueline, to his son, Michael, to his grandchildren, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President
        SCHNEIDER - Henry. The Trustees, staff and students of the Elaine Kaufman Cultural Center/ Lucy Moses School for Music and Dance mourn the passing of Trustee Henry Schneider. Henry became associated with the Center at a critical time, and placed his faith, support and interest in its future. Today, the children who study at the Lucy Moses School and the Special Music School of America, as well as the many others who enjoy the programs of the Elaine Kaufman Cultural Center, owe more to him than they realize. Henry will be sorely missed. Our deepest condolences and loving wishes go to Henry's entire family, particularly his devoted wife, Jacqueline, whose spirit and commitment continue to inspire us all. Leonard Goodman, Chairman Elaine Kaufman, President Lydia Kontos, Executive Director
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. NCJW New York Section mourns the loss of Henry Schneider, beloved husband of our honorary Board Member, Jacqueline Schneider. He has been a generous supporter and a source of continuous assistance and encouragement. We will miss his sage counsel. Sincerest condolences to the family. Bernice Friedes, Co-President Jean Krosner, Co-President Helen Caplin Heller, Exec Dir
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. A man of valor, who continually made significent contributions in support of educational, scientific and cultural affairs. His deep religious convictions paralleled his exquisite sense of ethics in the practice of his profession. Mimi and Clarence Barasch
      