
        RIBICOFF-Senator Abraham A. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the death of Senator Abraham Ribicoff. Eminent statesman and distinguished national leader, Senator Ribicoff made a difference in the lives of millions of Americans in his years of dedicated public service, just as he touched all of us with his warmth and gentleness in his stay at the Hebrew Home at Riverdale. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his loving and devoted wife Casey and the entire Ribicoff family. Milton A. Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman Jacob Reingold, Vice Chairman Daniel A. Reingold, Exec. V.P.
        RIBICOFF-Senator Abraham A. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the passing of its esteemed friend and beloved Trustee, Senator Abraham A. Ribicoff. Senator Ribicoff joined the Library's Board of Trustees in 1985 and played a key role in the life of the Library. He served with distinction both as Chairman and member of the Committee on Government Relations, as a member of the Executive Committee, and as a member of the Lawyers for the Library Committee. His extraordinary advocacy on behalf of the Library strengthened its position as a national resource. We were privileged to benefit from his wise counsel, his exceptional leadership and his deep loyalty to the Library's mission of democratic access to information. We shall miss him greatly. On behalf of the Board of Trustees and Staff of the Library, we extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Casey, and the family. Marshall Rose, Chairman Paul LeClerc, President Mrs. Vincent Astor, Honorary Chairman Andrew Heiskell, Elizabeth Rohatyn, Chairmen Emeriti
        RIBICOFF-Abraham A., Hon. It is with deep sadness that Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the death of Senator Abraham A. Ribicoff, a public servant whose life reflected the finest values of the Nation he served so brilliantly. A man of impeccable loyalty and uncompromising integrity, he rendered to the discourse of national and international affairs a wisdom rooted in learning and wedded to an expansive and compassionate heart. He will be missed. With his loved ones and with our nation we mourn his passing. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        RIBICOFF-Abraham A. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of our dear friend, Abraham A. Ribicoff. A devoted public servant, he was a leader in the struggles for civil rights and Soviet Jewry. In 1973 he received ADL's American Democratic Legacy Award. We extend our deepest condolences to the Ribicoff family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        RIBICOFF-Abraham A. On behalf of the board, staff and volunteers, we extend our deepest sympathy to 13/WNET's Vice Chairman, Casey Ribicoff, on the passing of her husband, Senator Abraham A. Ribicoff. The world was enriched by his leadership, compassion, and humanitarianism. Our thoughts are with Casey, the children, and grandchildren. Henry R. Kravis, Chairman William F. Baker, President
        RIBICOFF-Abraham A. The Partners of Kay, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler, LLP, mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague and friend, Senator Abraham A. Ribicoff, who served as Special Counsel to the Firm in its New York and Washington offices since his retirement from the United States Senate in 1981. Funeral services will be held at Temple Emanuel, 1 East 65th Street at 11 A.M., on Wednesday.
      