
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. Beloved husband of Jacqueline. Devoted father of Michael and the late Barbara Bruckner. Loving grandfather of Robert and James Bruckner, Maxwell and Ethan. Service Thursday, 11:30 AM at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th St. and Madison Avenue. For further information call Plaza Memorial Chapel, 212769-4400. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Columbia Law School or the Central Park Conservancy would be appreciated.
        SCHNEIDER - Henry. Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center and its Department of Neurology mourn the passing of our esteemed friend Henry Schneider. As president of the Henry and Lucy Moses Foundation, he and other officers directed contributions judiciously and generously. Among other good works, leaders of the Foundation were active for decades in supporting teaching and amelioration of suffering from diseases of the brain and neuromuscular systems. The Chair of the Neurology Department at Columbia is named the Henry and Lucy Moses Professor. Mr. Schneider was a dear personal friend and wise counselor. We extend our deep condolences to Mrs. Schneider and the family. Timothy A. Pedley, M.D. Henry and Lucy Moses Professor and Chair Department of Neurology (1998-) Lewis P. Rowland, M.D. Henry and Lucy Moses Professor and Chair Department of Neurology (1973-1998) Herbert Pardes, M.D. Vice President for Health Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine Columbia University
        SCHNEIDER - Henry. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center note with deep sadness the death of Henry Schneider. A great friend of many years, Mr. Schneider was instrumental in facilitating generous support for numerous Mount Sinai programs and services. A longtime member of our Committee of 1000, he will be remembered fondly for his ardent devotion to furthering Mount Sinai's mission of excellence in clinical care, scientific research and medical education. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife, Jacqueline, to his son, Michael, to his grandchildren, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President
        SCHNEIDER - Henry. The Trustees, staff and students of the Elaine Kaufman Cultural Center/ Lucy Moses School for Music and Dance mourn the passing of Trustee Henry Schneider. Henry became associated with the Center at a critical time, and placed his faith, support and interest in its future. Today, the children who study at the Lucy Moses School and the Special Music School of America, as well as the many others who enjoy the programs of the Elaine Kaufman Cultural Center, owe more to him than they realize. Henry will be sorely missed. Our deepest condolences and loving wishes go to Henry's entire family, particularly his devoted wife, Jacqueline, whose spirit and commitment continue to inspire us all. Leonard Goodman, Chairman Elaine Kaufman, President Lydia Kontos, Executive Director
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. The President and Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Henry Schneider, an esteemed past member of our board and great friend of the medical center. Mr. Schneider served on the Board of Trustees in the 1960's and continued his connection to Montefiore as President of the Henry and Lucy Moses Fund where his enlightened philanthropy and commitment to medical excellence produced great benefits for Montefiore and its community. We extend our profound sympathy to his wife Jacqueline, his son Michael, his grandchildren and entire family. Spencer Foreman, M.D., Pres. Jay B. Langner, Chairman, Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. The Board of Directors and Scientific Advisory Board of the VZV Research Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Henry Schneider, who, as President of the Henry and Lucy Moses Fund, was a great friend of the Foundation. His generosity and thoughtfulness contributed immeasurably to the alleviation of pain and suffering on the part of hundreds of thousands of Americans afflicted with shingles and post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN). Heartfelt condolences to Jacqueline and the entire Schneider family. Richard T. Perkin Chairman Anne A. Gershon, M.D. Chair, Scientific Advisory Board
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. The Board of the Jewish Campus Life Fund at Columbia University-Barnard College are saddened by the passing of our good friend and esteemed Board Member Henry Schneider. His dedication, support and leadership will always be remembered. Our sincere condolences to his wife Jacqueline, to his son Michael and to the entire family. Robert Pollack, President Earle W. Kazis, Chairman Charles H. Sheer, Rabbi
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. The Board and staff of Stanley M. Isaacs Neighborhood Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Henry Schneider, husband of long time board member Jacqueline Schneider and a loyal supporter of the center. We extend our deepest sympathy to Jacqueline and her family. Doris C. Halaby, Chairman Barry J. Alperin, President Wanda Wooten, Exec. Director
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Jacqueline and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Alan Levine, Chrmn of the Board Robert P. Antler, President
        SCHNEIDER-Henry. A man of valor, who continually made significent contributions in support of educational, scientific and cultural affairs. His deep religious convictions paralleled his exquisite sense of ethics in the practice of his profession. Mimi and Clarence Barasch
      