
        BROCK-Henry J. Of Village of Golf, Florida, and Osterville, Massachusetts, died suddenly at his home January 29, 1998. He was 87 years old. Mr. Brock was born in Jersey City, New Jersey, in 1910, was graduated by Fordham University in 1931 and by Fordham Law School in 1934. In the years prior to World War II he specialized in corporation and finance law with the New York law firm of White & Case. During World War II he served in the European Theater of Operations with the 101st Cavalry Mechanized Group and rose from Second Lieutenant to Lieutenant Colonel. He received two battle stars and the Bronze Star for combat activities. Mr. Brock was admitted to practice law in New York and New Jersey and was a member of the American, New York and New Jersey Bar Associations, the American Judicature Society, the Association of Life Insurance Counsel, and the Life Insurance Association of America. He was also a director of Purolator, Inc., for 25 years, the United States Radium Corporation, Oceanography Mariculture, Inc., Warlick Capital Management, Inc., and Southdown Corporation. Mr. Brock was retired in 1972 as a Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel of the Prudential Insurance Company of America. At the time of his retirement he was responsible for the legal supervision of the activities of all Prudential's investment departments which invested billions of dollars every year. Mr. Brock joined the Prudential law department in 1946 and retired in 1972. He was a member of the Somerset Hills Country Club in New Jersey, the Country Club of Florida, the Ocean Club of Florida, the Metropolitan Opera Club of New York, the New York Anglers Club, the Oyster Harbor Golf Club of Cape Cod, and the United States Seniors Golf Association. He is survived by his loving wife, the former Huguette Boudet of Paris, France, and three children of his late wife Mary Meier of Saint Joseph, Missouri: Henry J. Brock, Jr., of San Francisco, California, Babette Alfieri of Santa Fe, New Mexico, Mary Merton of Nantucket, Massachusetts, and three grandchildren: Marc E. Merton, Christopher A. Merton and Christina A. Misata, as well a greatgranddaughter, Samantha C. Merton. A funeral service will be held Monday, February 2, 1998, at 4 PM, at Saint Vincent Ferrer Cathollic Church, 810 George Bush Boulevard, Delray, Florida. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that contributions be made in his memory to his preferred charity, the American Cancer Society. For information, Lorne & Sons Funeral Home, Delray Beach, FL, 561276-4161.
      