
        RUSSELL-Maurice V. The Officers and Directors of the Marian Kenworthy-Sarah Swift Foundation note with deep sorrow the untimely death of our esteemed President. His wisdom, compassion and his dedication to improving the lives of children and families continued the traditions and interests of his friends Marian Kenworthy and Justine Wise Polier who established this Foundation. His many contributions to the field of social work have been widely recognized and he will be greatly missed by all who knew and worked with him. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. Michael G. Kalogerakis, MD Trudy Festinger, DSW, Vice Presidemt Stephen W. Tulin, Esq. Secretary-Treasurer
        RUSSELL-Dr. Maurice V. The NYC Chapter, National Association of Social Workers, mourns the tragic loss of a past member of our Board of Directors. Dr. Russell was a leader in health care, founding the social work department at Harlem Hospital and subsequently leading the departments at Jacobi Hospital and NYU Medical Center. He was the first recepient of our annual chapter award and was a mentor to an entire generation of practitioners. Dr. Russell will always be remembered as a consummate professional, wonderful storyteller and dear friend. Dr. Carmen Ortiz Hendricks, President Dr. Robert Schachter, Executive Director
        RUSSELL-Maurice V. Ed. D. Louise Wise Services for children and families deeply mourns the loss of our distinguished Honorary Board President, Dr. Maurice Russell. He was our wise friend, colleague and teacher. A longtime and deeply engaged Board member, he served as President and Chairman. He helped direct and support the organization's programs and policies. His dedication to Louise Wise Services will live on in our continuing search for improved ways to serve some of the most vulnerable and neediest children and families in this city. Glenna R. Michaels, President Nancy E. Cavaluzzi, Exec. Dir.
        RUSSELL-Maurice V., M.S.W, Ed. D. The Postgraduate Center for Mental Health notes with sadness the untimely death of an esteemed member of our Board of Trustees, Dr. Maurice V. Russell. Dr. Russell inspired all who knew him by his dedication to those less fortunate, especially children. He was a member of our board since 1991, and a Postgraduate Center Honoree for Community Service in 1997. His joyful disposition and generosity of spirit brought sunshine to our city. The Staff, Faculty and Trustees, Postgraduate Center for Mental Health
        RUSSELL-Maurice V. The President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of our Trustee Emeritus Dr. Maurice V. Russell. He was a respected colleague whose leadership as a Trustee was marked by exceptional insight, dedication, and decency. Columbia University extends its profound sympathy to his sister Freida Durham and her family. George Rupp, President of the University Stephen Friedman, Chair of the Trustees
      