
        FRIEDMAN-Hon. Lewis R. Devoted husband of Bernice, beloved father of Karen, cherished son of Dr. Sylvia N. and the late Harold, loving brother of Dr. Diane. Services 11AM Sunday, Park Avenue Synagogue, East 87th Street and Madison Ave. Contributions may be made to the Forman Friedman Fund, Foundation for the Jewish Community, 150 East 58th Street, 26th floor, N.Y.C. 10155.
        FRIEDMAN-Justice Lewis R. Women's American ORT mourns the untimely death of a brilliant and generous colleague and friend. As a director of American ORT, a trustee of Bramson ORT Technical Institute in Forest Hills, Queens, and a member of the executive committee of the World ORT Union, he gave of himself unstintingly in furthering technical education in a Jewish environment for youngsters and adults worldwide, with special concern for immigrants, Israel, the United States and the former Soviet Union. Our heartfelt sympathies go out to his family. Ruth S. Taffel, National President Pepi Dunay, First Vice President Rosina K. Abramson, Esq. Executive Director
        FRIEDMAN-Lewis R. The law firm of Cohen Hennessey & Bienstock joins the entire legal community in mourning the sudden & untimely passing of Hon. Lewis R. Friedman. He was a brilliant trial judge who made a lasting contribution to New York jurisprudence. His commitment to the litigants who appeared before him and the arguments advanced by their counsel and his legendary speed in issuing decisions on motions reflected his deep concern for justice. Those of us who appeared before him will always remember his keen wit, his extraordinary memory and his love of the law. Harriet N. Cohen Patricia Hennessey Peter Bienstock
        FRIEDMAN-Judge Lewis R. It was with deep sorrow the Foundation for the Jewish Community learns of the untimely passing of Justice Lewis Friedman. He possessed outstanding qualities of leadership and wisdom and was greatly admired for his devotion to philanthropic causes. Our sincerest condolences are extended to his wife, Bernice Forman Friedman; his mother, Dr. Sylvia N., and the entire Friedman family. Lorin J. Silverman, Director
        FRIEDMAN-Justice Lewis R. There are really no words when we need them. It is with great sadness that we note the passing of Judge Lewis Friedman, who will be long remembered and sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Bernice Forman Friedman; his mother, Dr. Sylvia N., and the entire Friedman family. The Marty Silverman Family
        FRIEDMAN-Justice Lewis R. The Park Avenue Synagogue Men's Club mourns the sudden loss of our past-President and extends our condolences to his family. Leslie W. Agisim, Chairman Stephen E. Kesselman, Co-President Marc D. Powers, Co-President
        FRIEDMAN-Justice Lewis R. Thanks Judge. From a father whose children were saved by Judge Friedman.
      