
        NEALON-Thomas Francis, Jr., M.D. A resident of Greenwich, CT., died Feb. 23, 1998, one day before his seventy-eighth birthday. Dr. Nealon was a retired Professor of Surgery with dual faculty appointments at New York University School of Medicine and at New York Medical College. He served as Chairman of the Department of Surgery at Saint Vincent's Hospital in New York City from 1968 until his retirement as Chairman in 1991. During that tenure Dr. Nealon certified the training in surgery of 250 house officers and eightysix chief residents, each of whom has pursued careers throughout the U.S. and abroad. Dr. Nealon served in the United States Navy during World War II and the Korean War achieving the rank of Lieutenant (jg) MC. Dr. Nealon's academic career commenced in 1949 when he served one of the first fellowships in Oncologic Surgery awarded by the American Cancer Society. This focus on cancer research remained through his early career when lung cancer and the correlation between cigarette smoking and cancer of the lung where first established. He later made major contributions to the management of breast cancer by using microscopic characteristics of breast cancer cells to predict subsequent behavior of the cancer. Dr. Nealon was born on February 24, 1920 in Jessup, PA, a small town in the mountainous coal-mining region of Northeast Pennsylvania. He received a Bachelor of Science degree from Jefferson Medical College in 1944. After an internship at the U.S. Naval Hospital in Brooklyn, New York, Dr. Nealon received his training in Surgery from John H. Gibbon, M.D., a recognized giant in American Medicine who is noted for having developed the ''Heart-Lung Machine'', the technology which first permitted open heart surgery. Dr. Nealon's partnership with Dr. Gibbon began with residency training at Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia, but extended from those days in the early years of the 1950's to 1968 when Dr. Nealon left Jefferson having achieved the rank of Professor of Surgery. Dr. Nealon's entire career was influenced by this prolonged mentorship and partnership with Dr. Gibbon. Dr. Nealon was a member of the operative team which performed the first successful open heart operation every performed on a human. Dr. Nealon's participation was pivotal in the development of the textbook titled ''Surgery of the Chest'' with Dr. Gibbon serving as primary author. This text immediately was recognized and remains the primary source document for both cardiac and non-cardiac thoracic surgery. Dr. Nealon was elected to Alpha Sigma Nu Honorary Society at the University of Scranton and he was elected to Alpha Omega Honorary Society at Jefferson Medical College. He was the recipient of an Honorary Degree, Doctor of Humane Letters conveyed by the University of Scranton in 1979. Dr. Nealon was a member of essentially all the prestigious societies in surgery and thoracic surgery playing a particularly active role in the American Cancer Society, the American Surgical Association, the American Associaton for Thoracic Surgery, the American College of Surgeons, serving as a member of the Board of Governers from 1972-1978, the New York Surgical Society, serving as President in 1978 and the New York Cancer Society, serving as President in 1978 and 1979. Dr. Nealon served as an invited editor of many journals and was a member of the Advisory Editorial Board for the ''Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery'' for many years. He was the author of more than 200 journal articles and many book chapters. He wrote two texts, one serving as the first reference on the surgcal management of cancer. Dr. Nealon remained throughout his life committed to medical education, surgical research and patient care. Dr. Nealon was a member of the Knights of Malta and the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick. Dr. Nealon is survived by his wife of fifty-one years, the former Mary Catherine Hawe and by four children, son Thomas F. Nealon, III and his wife Marjie of Miami, FL, daughter Marty Nealon and her husband Richard of New York, NY, son William Hawe Nealon, M.D. and wife Cathie of Galveston, TX and daughter Kathleen Anne Nealon and husband Eric of New York, NY. He leaves three sisters, Louise Loftus of Denver, CO, Annaclaire Mangan of Mount Holly, NJ and Jean Smith of Lawrenceville, NJ. He also leaves twelve loving grandchildren and countless friends, former pupils, trainees and patients each of whom have been touched by his life. A Memorial Service will take place on Saturday, February 28, 1998, at 2:30PM at St. Michael The Archangel Roman Catholic Church, 469 North Street, Greenwich, Connecticut 06830. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the Thomas Francis Nealon, Jr., M.D. Memorial Fund, C/O University of Texas Medical Branch, Department of Surgery, Galveston, Texas 77555-0544. Attn: William H. Nealon, M.D.
        NEALON-Thomas F., M.D. The Board of Trustees, Sisters of Charity, Medical Staff and Administration of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center note with sadness the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. A member of the Saint Vincent's staff since 1968, Dr. Nealon formerly served as Chairman of the Department of Surgery at the Medical Center for more than twenty years. He held several academic appointments including Professor of Surgery at New York University School of Medicine and New York Medical College. Affiliated with many professional organizations, Dr. Nealon served on the Board of Governors of the American College of Surgeons, was a former President of the New York Cancer Society, former president of the New York Surgical Society, as well as an active member of the very prestigious American Surgical Society. Dr. Nealon took great pride in his close affiliation with the Sisters of Charity and Saint Vincents Hospital, as well as his tremendous dedication to surgical residency training. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Kay, and their children. Thomas A. Coleman Chairman of the Board Karl P. Adler, M.D. President and CEO Eduardo M. Gonzalez, M.D. Medical Staff President Marc K. Wallack, M.D. Chairman, Department of Surgery Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center
      