
        FLAMM-Donald, 98 of Palm Beach and New Jersey, passed away February 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Elayne. Dear brother of Milton Flamm. Loving stepfather of Jim Knee, wife Linda Knee, Bobby Knee, wife Nancy Knee. Cherished grandfather of Daniel Knee. Caring father-in-law of Harry Needelman. Loving uncle of nieces Carol (Nobuo) Akiyama, Jacqueline Flamm, husband Michael Aslett, Nola (Richard) Baris, nephew Gary (Mollie) Flamm. Brother-in-law and sister-in-law Al and Gloria Brokman, nieces Hope (Barry) Linderman, Tyler Meryl, Donna Klein and Debra Brokman; and many great nieces & nephews. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to Melech Yisrael, Jewish Federation, Hebrew Free Loan, Anti-Defamation League, Orthodox Union or a charity of your choice. Funeral service to be held today 12:00 noon at ''The Riverside'' Amsterdam Ave. New York, NY. Interment to follow at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. We thank you and love you with all our hearts.
        FLAMM-Donald. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Donald Flamm, an Honorary Life Member of our National Commission. A pioneer in the communications field and a founder of the Voice of America, Donald used his expertise to fight anti-semitism & bigotry on the airways. In his more than half century involvement with ADL, he helped guide the League's efforts with his ideas and generous philanthropy. In 1995, he endowed the Donald Flamm Chair of Communications of ADL. We will miss his counsel, enthusiasm and wit. We extend our deep condolences to his wife Elayne and entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director Arnold Forster, General Counsel
        FLAMM-Donald J. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Donald J. Flamm, a generous supporter of UJA-Federation. As a founder and Vice President of the Board of Trustees of the Hebrew Free Loan Society, a charter beneficiary agency, he was dedicated to helping the needy solve their problems without loss of dignity or self sufficiency. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Elayne. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        FLAMM-Donald. The NYU community mourns the passing of Donald Flamm, theatrical producer, innovator in the world of radio, and one of the founders of Voice of America. Through his generosity to the Donald Flamm Broadcast Studio at NYU's Tisch School of the Arts, Mr. Flamm helped insure that the medium he pioneered will continue to be innovative and cutting edge. He shall be missed. L. Jay Oliva, President Laurence A. Tisch, Chairman Board of Trustees
        FLAMM-Donald. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Donald Flamm on February 14, 1998. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Wednesday February 18th at Riverside Memorial Chapel, at 12 noon. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        FLAMM-Donald. The Officers and Directors of the Friars Foundation mourn the loss of their long-time Member of the Board of Directors, Donald Flamm on Feb. 14, 1998. His dedication and contributions to our organization will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Abraham D. Beame, Chairman Leo Greenland, President
      