
        HUFF-Egie, the wife of Robert W. Huff, died at home on Thursday, Jan. 29, 1998 of ovarian cancer. She was 76 years old. Through her diverse roles and activities (volunteerism, community member, wife and mother), Mrs. Huff has touched the lives of many and has pioneered the way for women in numerous arenas. Mrs. Huff was a dedicated volunteer with the American Cancer Society (ACS) at the local, state and national levels. She was a member of the National Board of ACS from 1969 to 1980, and was elected an Honorary Life Member in 1980. She served as Vice President for three terms, and was a member of the ACS delegation to the People's Republic of China in 1977 at the invitation of the Chinese Medical Society. Mrs. Huff was honored in 1993 by the ACS Georgia Division when the main lobby of the Division headquarters was named the Egie Huff Center. In addition to her work with the ACS, Mrs. Huff was active in the YMCA. She was the first woman to be elected President of the National Council of the YMCA of the USA, bringing about considerable comment from the media. She was also the first woman to serve as President of the local YMCA, the first woman to be elected President of the Southeast Region YMCA Board, a member of the YMCA National Board, and a member of the Executive Committee of the World Alliance of the YMCA, Geneva, Switzerland. Mrs. Huff was past President of the local United Way and a member of the First Baptist Church. In addition to her volunteer activities, Mrs. Huff worked alongside her husband at Huff Pharmacy, serving the local community. Mrs. Huff was born in South Carolina, the daughter of Furman and Margaret C. Grant. She was a graduate of the University of Georgia, and taught at Tift College before her marriage to Robert W. Huff in 1942. She leaves to cherish her memories her husband and four children: Penny Huff, Santa Barbara, CA; Wynne T. Huff II, Atlanta, GA; Robert W. Huff, Jr., Rome, GA; and Courtenay Huff, New York, NY; and a grandson Wynne T. Huff, III, Atlanta, GA. A memorial service will be held February 7, 1998 at 11:00AM at the First Baptist Church in Rome, with visitation with the family at the First Baptist Church for one hour prior to the service. In lieu of flowers, memorials may be sent to the American Cancer Society, 229 North Fifth Avenue, Rome, GA, or to the Huff Endowment Fund of the RomeFloyd County YMCA, PO Box 727, Rome, GA. 30161, or to the First Baptist Church, P.O. Box 1189, Rome, GA. 30162-1189.
      