
        FRIEDMAN-Hon. Lewis R. Devoted husband of Bernice, beloved father of Karen, cherished son of Dr. Sylvia N. and the late Harold, loving brother of Dr. Diane. Services 11AM Sunday, Park Avenue Synagogue, East 87th Street and Madison Ave. Contributions may be made to the Forman Friedman Fund, Foundation for the Jewish Community, 150 East 58th Street, 26th floor, N.Y.C. 10155.
        FRIEDMAN-Lewis R. The law firm of Cohen Hennessey & Bienstock joins the entire legal community in mourning the sudden & untimely passing of Hon. Lewis R. Friedman. He was a brilliant trial judge who made a lasting contribution to New York jurisprudence. His commitment to the litigants who appeared before him and the arguments advanced by their counsel and his legendary speed in issuing decisions on motions reflected his deep concern for justice. Those of us who appeared before him will always remember his keen wit, his extraordinary memory and his love of the law. Harriet N. Cohen Patricia Hennessey Peter Bienstock
        FRIEDMAN-Justice Lewis R. Justice of the New York State Supreme Court, board member of American ORT, devoted family man and an esteemed personal friend who I loved dearly. He enriched the lives of all who knew him. The deep sorrow at his loss is tempered by vibrant memories of his kindness, warmth and generosity of spirit. Profound sympathy to Bernice and Karen and to Sylvia. He will be very sorely missed. Murray Koppelman
        FRIEDMAN-Hon. Lewis R. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant and trustee. His wise counsel will be sorely missed. We extend to his wife Bernice, daughter Karen, mother Dr. Sylvia Friedman, and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Alan Levine, Chrmn of the Board Robert P. Antler, President
        FRIEDMAN-Hon. Lewis R. The Lenox Hill Democratic Club extends its heartfelt condolences to Bernice Friedman, his wife, a former President of the Lenox Hill Democratic Club, and to the entire family of Justice Lewis R. Friedman. We all mourn the passing of a distinguished and thoughtful jurist of the Supreme Court of the State of New York. John Halebian, President
      