
        FRIEDMAN-Hon. Lewis R. The board and staff of the Educational Alliance deeply mourn the sudden and untimely death of Judge Lewis R. Friedman, beloved husband of our devoted and committed Trustee and Senior Vice President, Bernice. Lew devoted his professional and personal life, as does his wife, to create a community more sensitive and responsive to the needs of the under served, immigrants and refugees. Whether sitting on the bench or on the board of one of his charitable institutions, Lew demonstrated that perfect blend of humor, intellect and humanity. We extend our heart felt condolences to the Friedman family. Arthur I. Sonnenblick, President
        FRIEDMAN-Hon. Lewis R. Devoted husband of Bernice, beloved father of Karen, cherished son of Dr. Sylvia N. and the late Harold, loving brother of Dr. Diane. Services 11AM Sunday, Park Avenue Synagogue, East 87th Street and Madison Ave. Contributions may be made to the Forman Friedman Fund, Foundation for the Jewish Community, 150 East 58th Street, 26th floor, N.Y.C. 10155.
        FRIEDMAN-Justice Lewis R. The Board of Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, First Judicial District, deeply mourns the loss of our illustrious colleague, and dear friend, Justice Lewis R. Freidman. He served as a Judge of the Housing Court and of the New York City Civil Court; since 1993, he has been a distinguished Justice of the New York State Supreme Court. He was a brilliant legal thinker, with a passionate love of the law, and utter devotion to the judicial system. He has left us far too early, and our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his family. Beatrice Shainswit, President
        FRIEDMAN-Lewis R. The Jewish Braille Institute of America expresses its profound sorrow and extends heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Vice President, Dr. Sylvia N. Friedman, upon the loss of her beloved son, Judge Lewis R. Friedman. We pray that his memory will serve as a blessing and inspiration to her, to his wife Bernice and to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Selma Shavitz, President Gerald M. Kass, Executive V.P.
        FRIEDMAN-Justice Lewis R. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of American ORT, deeply mourn the passing of our dedicated Officer and National Board Member, Justice Lewis R. Friedman. He was American ORT's 1994 Man of the Year and a former Vice-President, and he also served on the Central Board, Executive Committee and Constitution and Bylaws Committee of the World ORT Union, and as Secretary and a member of the Board of Trustees of Bramson ORT Technical Institute in NYC. Lewis Friedman followed in a strong family tradition of involvement in American ORT. His mother, Dr. Sylvia N. Friedman, is also a member of American ORT's National Board of Directors and has been active in the organization for many years. His father, the late Harold Friedman, was President of American ORT from 1975 to 1978, a member of American ORT's Board of Directors and National Executive Committee, and Honorary Vice-President and member of the Central Board of World ORT Union. Lewis Friedman was deeply dedicated to ORT, for which he worked tirelessly, and he will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Bernice Forman Friedman, his daughter, Karen, his mother, Dr. Sylvia N. Friedman, his sister, Dr. Diane Friedman, and the entire Friedman family. Paul Borman, President Murray Koppelman, Chairman of the Board Alvin L. Gray, Honorary President David B. Hermelin, Honorary President Brian J. Strum, Executive Vice-President Paul I. Bernick, Executive Director Emeritus
        FRIEDMAN-Hon. Judge Lewis. The Board and staff of The New York Association for New Americans (NYANA) extend their heartfelt condolences to the family of NYANA Board member, the Hon. Lewis Friedman-his wife, Bernice Forman Friedman, daughter, Karen Friedman, and mother, Dr. Sylvia N. Friedman. Justice Friedman had a distinguished 25 year legal career that culminated in his sitting as a justice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York and gave generously of his time to charities, especially in the Jewish community. In addition to having served on NYANA's Board for 12 years, Justice Friedman sat on the Boards of HIAS, American ORT Federation, World ORT Union, Bramson ORT Technical Institute, UJA-Federation of New York, and the Park Avenue Synagogue. Justice Friedman's commitment to serving society came out of a long family tradition of selfless dedication. His mother, Dr. Sylvia N. Friedman, has been a long time NYANA Board member and past president of the organization; his father, the late Harold Friedman, had served for many years on the Board of HIAS; and his wife, Bernice Forman Friedman, serves on the Board of the Educational Alliance. We hope that Lewis Friedman's lasting mark on society will be a source of comfort to his family and friends. Our thoughts and prayers are with you. Laura G. Ross, President Mark Handelman, ACSW Executive Vice President
        FRIEDMAN-Lewis R. It is with great sadness that HIAS, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, notes the passing of our dear friend and longtime executive committee member, the Hon. Lewis R. Friedman. His lifelong contribution to HIAS's work was invaluable. From his early days, as the Associate Treasurer, to his current involvement as a vice president, Judge Friedman provided wise counsel and leadership, as had his late father, Harold, HIAS's President Emeritus, before him. As an active member of several Jewish organizations, Judge Friedman was a pillar in the American Jewish community and his devotion, warmth, sense of humor and vision will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his wife, Bernice, his mother, Dr. Sylvia N., a longtime HIAS board member, and his daughter, Karen. We share in their loss. Norman D. Tilles, President Martin A. Wenick, Exec. Vice Pres
        FRIEDMAN-Lewis. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of State Supreme Court Justice Lewis Friedman, a generous supporter who emulated the humanitarian concerns of his family. His mother, Sylvia Friedman, and his father, the late Harold Friedman, have been extraordinary leaders and philanthropists in our community and throughout the United States. A cherished friend of UJA-Federation, Mr. Friedman's mother has served as an officer of our Board of Directors. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Bernice, a Board member of the Educational Alliance, a UJA-Federation beneficiary agency, and to the entire Friedman family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        FRIEDMAN-Lewis R. The Justices of the Commercial Division of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, mourn the passing of their esteemed colleague and friend, Justice Lewis R. Friedman, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. In his judicial career on the Housing, Civil and Supreme Courts, he exemplified the qualities of compassion and fairness. We greatly benefited from his friendship, advice and counsel. The bench and bar alike will feel the loss of his energy, wit and devotion to the true administration of justice. Hon. Herman Cahn Hon. Barry A. Cozier Hon. Steven G. Crane Hon. Ira Gammerman Hon. Charles Edward Ramos Hon. Beatrice Shainswit
        FRIEDMAN-The Hon. Lewis R. The Criminal Justice Section of the New York State Bar Association mourns the untimely loss of an esteemed member of its Executive Committee. Susan B. Lindenauer, Chair
      