
        BRODSKY-Bernard. MD. Psychoanalyst. 84. Died suddenly on February 12, 1998 while swimming in the Caribbean. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Loving father of Nina, Laura and Mary and fatherin-law of Kenneth Roth and Stuart Zura. Adoring grandfather of Lisa and Emma Roth. His passion for life and art, his probing intellect, his dedication to his patients and his love for family and friends, will be warmly remembered and greatly missed. A Memorial Service, Sunday March 1st, 2:30pm at Frank Campbell Funeral Chapel 1076 Madison Ave, NYC.
        BRODSKY-Bernard, M.D. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Bernard Brodsky, M.D., devoted husband of Marilyn Brodsky, an esteemed member of our senior staff. Dr. Brodsky, a leader in the fields of psychiatry and psychoanalysis, was also a consulting psychiatrist for the Jewish Board of Guardians, one of our predecessor agencies. JBFCS extends its deepest sympathy to Mrs. Brodsky; her daughters, Nina, Laura and Mary; her sons-in-law, Kenneth and Stuart; her granddaughters, Lisa and Emma; and other members of her family. Joseph S. Kaplan, President Seymour R. Askin, Jr., Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D, Executive Vice President
        BRODSKY-Bernard, M.D. The officers and members of the New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute express their profound sorrow at the death of their respected and beloved colleague and member, Dr. Bernard Brodsky. Dr. Brodsky was past president of the Society, a training and supervising analyst and a much valued faculty member of the Institute. He will be remembered with great affection for his warmth, wisdom, humor, extraordinary eye for art and generosity of spirit. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife, Marilyn, and his family. Lester Schwartz, M.D., President/Society Edward Hartmann, M.D., President/Institute
        BRODSKY-Bernard., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Bernard Brodsky, MD, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague Nina Brodsky, Esq., Associate General Counsel. To Nina, her mother Marilyn, her sister Laura and Mary, the entire Brodsky family and all of her father's loved ones, we extend our heartfelft condolences. Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President & CEO Kathryn C. Meyer, Esq., Senior VP & General Counsel
      