
        MASKET-David C., 67. Died on February 3, 1998. Beloved husband of Joan Gellinoff Masket, loving father of Steven and Elaine Masket, Mary-Ellen and David Stein, Elizabeth and Jonathan Sommer. Adored grandfather of Willy, Alex, Dana, Adam, Matthew and Allison. Devoted brother of Darcy Greher and brother-in-law of Judy Levy and Harold Greher. Cherished uncle and friend. You will be in our hearts, always. Contributions can be made to the Calhoun School, 433 West End Avenue, NYC 10024 or the Guild for the Sylvia and Danny Kaye Playhouse at Hunter College, 695 Park Avenue, NYC, 10021. Services will be held at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, on Thursday, February 5, at 12:30 P.M.
        MASKET-David C. The Hunter College Commuity mourns the loss of David Masket, husband of Hunter alumna Joan Gellinoff Masket. Mr. Masket, former Chairman and former Vice Chairman of the Board of Maidenform Worldwide, joined his wife in supporting the College in many ways. He served as a member of the President's Corporate Advisory Council and was a member of the Friends of the Hunter College Library and the Friends of the Hunter College Art Galleries. He also supported Mrs. Masket, a Trustee of the Hunter College Foundation, in her many endeavors to benefit the College through her work with the Alumni Association and as founding Chair of The Guild for the Sylvia and Danny Kaye Playhouse. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Mrs. Masket and her family. David A. Caputo, President, Hunter College Allan H. Kurtzman, Chair, The Hunter College Foundation
        MASKET-David. The Calhoun School deeply mourns the passing of David Masket, former President of the Board of Trustees, father of graduates Mary-Ellen Stein '74, Elizabeth Sommer '76, and grandfather of Matthew Sommer, Calhoun second grader. With his wife Joan, he was an active member of our school community for thirty years. David served in a number of capacities over that long span of time, never faltering in his dedication, loyalty and belief in Calhoun. His wise counsel and leadership were marked by both wit and humanity, and we will never forget that David Masket was one of us. It is difficult to express in words the depth of sympathy that we feel for Joan, their children and their grandchildren. Mariana S. Leighton, Head of School
        MASKET-David. The Board of Trustees of The Calhoun School records with deep sorrow the loss of Trustee and former President, David Masket. Longtime colleague and dear friend, David was a tower of strength and a leader who inspired others by his quiet, dignified manner and sound judgment. Kind, compassionate, and intelligent, he will be greatly missed by all of us. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Joan, his children and grandchildren, and all in his family who grieve his passing, as do we. Ronald M. Foster, Jr., President
        MASKET-David C. The entire staff of the Sylvia and Danny Kaye Playhouse at Hunter College mourns the loss of our dear friend David C. Masket, founding member of our Guild and husband of our beloved chairperson Joan G. Masket. We will miss his strength, his guidance, his warmth, his good humor and his unfailing confidence in our future. Joseph A. LoSchiavo, Director Kate Mennone, General Manager
        MASKET-David C. The friends of the Masket family who served with Joan on The Guild for the Kaye wish to express deep sorrow at the death of David Masket, a true booster of The Sylvia and Danny Kaye Playhouse and everything Joan did for her alma mater. His advise, counsel and good-hearted participation will be missed by us all. Members and Staff of The Guild for the Kaye
        MASKET-David. Our cousin, our friend. David epitomized those qualities that distinguished outstanding people, brilliance, compassion, generosity of spirit, caring, high ethical values, love of family and friends. We will remember him with love. Grace Griffenberg, Susan Trovati, Stuart Griffen
        MASKET-David. Whitehall Tenants Corp extends condolences to Joan Masket and the entire family on the untimely passing of our former President. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Horace Bullard, President Ludwig Bravmann, Vice President
      