
        SCHAPIRA-Hans E., M.D. On January 31. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Ralph and Marilyn and Paul and Nicole. Dear brother of Kurt. Loving grandfather of Emily, Alex and Aaron. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Hans E. Schapira, M.D., Foundation, Inc., 335 West 246 St., Bronx, New York 10471.
        SCHAPIRA-Hans E. M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Hans E. Schapira, M.D., Clinical Professor of Urology, whose association with Mount Sinai spanned nearly four decades. After earning his medical degree Summa Cum Laude at the University of Rome, Dr. Schapira joined Mount Sinai as a resident in 1959 and through the years became recognized for his outstanding clinical skills, devotion to his patients, and dedication to advancing the understanding of urological disease, as well as to the dissemination of knowledge to students and new physicians. The author of numerous scientific papers, Dr. Schapira was a member of the American Urological Association and the American Fertility Society, as well as a Fellow of the American International Academy and a recipient of the Academy's Star and Cross of Academic Honor. He will be remembered most fondly and he will be sorely missed. We extend our sincerest sympathy to his wife, Ruth, to his children, Ralph, Marilyn, Paul, and Nicole, to his grandchildren and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Wendy Z. Goldstein, Director Alan L. Schiller, M.D., President, Medical Board
        SCHAPIRA-Hans E., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni records with sorrow the loss of their longtime colleague and friend. Dr. Schapira was an outstanding clinician, a gifted and devoted teacher and a trusted friend. He had a profound influence on many generations of physicians as he patiently and unfailingly gave his time, intelligence and good humor. He exemplified our finest traditions of medical excellence, and will be sorely missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Wayne S. Fuchs, M.D., President Avi Barbasch, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, M.D., Treasurer
        SCHAPIRA-Dr. Hans. The Department of Urology at Mt. Sinai Medical Center mourns with deep sadness the passing of Dr. Hans Schapira, Clinical Professor of Urology. Inspiring teacher, compassionate physician and caring friend, he touched and influenced the lives of countless patients, colleagues and students through his knowledge, his wisdom, his selflessness, and his old-world grace. We extend our condolences to his wife Ruth and his sons Ralph and Paul and their families. He will be sorely missed, but always remembered. Michael J. Droller, M.D., Chairman, Department of Urology
        SCHAPIRA-Dr. Hans E. It is with great sadness that we note the passing of our friend and colleague. We have been honored to know him and work with him. His intelligence, warmth, personal grace, and compassion endeared him to all who were lucky enough to have been touched by him. Our hearts go out to Ruth, Paul, Ralph and their Family. He will be sorely missed. Jody and Douglas Birns Susan and George Klein
      