
        KUFELD-William M. Our entire family mourns the loss of our brother-in-law and uncle. He was loved and will be sorely missed. The Chesir Family
        KUFELD-William M. AMIT is deeply grieved at the untimely loss of the beloved husband of our departed Honorary National President, Frieda Kufeld, devoted brother-in-law of our Senior National Vice President, Elissa P. Chesir, and a most generous benefactor of our AMIT children in Israel. A beautiful human being, ''Bill'' Kufeld was a man of great warmth, compassion, wisdom and skill, who lived a life dedicated to Torah values and contributed so much to the advancement of AMIT, the development of religious Zionism, and the betterment of all Mankind. Heartfelt condolences to his beloved children, Suri and David; grandchildren, Jennie and Samantha; brother, Buddy, and sister, Lucy, and the entire family. Evelyn Blachor, National Pres. Marvin Leff, Executive Director
        KUFELD-William. It is with deep sorrow that the North Shore Hebrew Academy family in Great Neck, NY mourns the passing of William Kufeld z''l. As one of the Academy's founding members and past presidents, Bill provided the NSHA with leadership, insight and a special commitment to educating future generations of Jewish leaders. His loss will be deeply felt by his son, David, his entire family, and by all those whose lives he touched at the Academy. Dr. William Helmreich, President, Board of Trustees Rabbi Yeshayahu E. Greenfeld, Principal Joel Kirschner, Executive Director
        KUFELD-William. With aching hearts and tear-filled eyes, we mourn the passing of our beloved Founder and First President, Bill Kufeld Z.L. His visionary leadership, boundless dedication and passion for excellence set the standard for our shul, and his warm and welcoming nature molded its character. We will sorely miss him and pray that Hashem comfort David and Suri and the entire family among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Young Israel of Great Neck Yaacov Lerner, Rabbi Dr. Billy Eisenberg, President
        KUFELD-William M. Loving husband of the late Frieda (nee Chesir), beloved father of David and Suri. Adored grandfather of Jennie and Samantha. Devoted brother of Henry and Georgia, Lucy, Bill and the late Rita Michaelson, Seymour and Elissa Chesir and Isaac and Sandy Chesir. Services Tuesday, February 10, 11AM at the Young Israel of Great Neck, 236 Middle Neck Road. Shiva will be observed at the home of the late William Kufeld, 516-482-1966.
        KUFELD-William M. February 9, 1998. It is with great sorrow that we mark the passing of our beloved senior partner, Bill Kufeld. A consummate lawyer, he was our colleague, advisor and comradein-arms for almost fifty years. His friendship, wisdom and guidance will be dearly missed by all of us. His like shall not soon pass this way again. We mourn his passing. The Partners and Staff of Carb, Luria, Cook & Kufeld LLP.
        KUFELD-William M. We note with sadness and deep sense of loss the passing of this compassionate human being and attorney who epitomized the highest standards of our profession. Our condolences to all his family and to the members and associates of Carb, Luria, Glassner, Cook and Kufeld. Stein, Schwartz, Chesir and Rosh
        KUFELD-William. We are deeply saddened by the loss our beloved Billy, a cherished friend for over 70 years. We will always remember his caring and warmth and the times we spent together. Our condolences to his son David and the family. Marian and Moses George and Ann
        KUFELD-William. We deeply mourn the passing of this wonderful, compassionate member of our family who gave unquestioningly to those he loved and was a support and comfort to his many friends. The Antzis Family
        KUFELD-William M. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of our Founding Member and Honorary President, and extends to David and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences.
      