
        LEAR-Phillip Ephraim. M.D. 92. Of Great Neck, LI on Thursday, February 5, 1998. Beloved husband of Dora Hershkovitz, cherished father of Marion Swaybill and Elizabeth Pinsky. Devoted grandfather of Stacey and Caroline Pinsky and father-in-law of Lawrence Pinsky; and the late Roger Swaybill. Emeritus Director of Surgery at Long Island Jewish Medical Center, Governor of the American College of Surgeons, Professor of Surgery at Downstate Medical Center. A man of inordinate compassion, an extraordinary leader, healer, teacher, mentor and friend. Funeral services, Riverside Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, Friday, February 6 at 12 Noon.
        LEAR-Phillip, M.D. The Trustees and staff of North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System are deeply saddened to learn of the death of their beloved and esteemed colleague, affectionately known as ''King Lear''. The founding Chief of LIJ's Department of Surgery, Dr. Lear established a four year residency program with Downstate College in the Medical Center's inagural year. During his tenure, he trained a generation of surgeons and gained broad respect as a clinician. In 1961, Dr. Lear became the first Long Island physician elected to the Board of Governors of the American College of Surgeons. We extend our sincere condolences to all the members of the Lear family. Saul B. Katz, Roy J. Zuckerberg, Co-Chairman Board of Trustees David R. Dantzker, M.D., John S.T. Gallagher, Co-Presidents & CEOs North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        LEAR-Phillip. The Staff Society of Long Island Jewish Medical Center deeply mourns the passing of its devoted friend and fellow member, Dr. Phillip Lear. Dr. Lear was a Founding Chief of LIJ's Dept of Surgery in 1953. His close association and dedicated service has left a lasting impression on this institution. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Dr. Steven Orshan, President Dr. William Doscher, Vice Pres Dr. Ira Kalfus, Secretary-Treas
        LEAR-Phillip E. M.D. It is with deep regret that we record the passing of our longtime member, Dr. Phillip E. Lear. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Dora and the entire family. Board of Govenors Fresh Meadow Country Club Steven Howard, President Allen Kaplan, Secretary
        LEAR-Dr. Phillip E. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Sidney Freedman, President
      