
        SORG-Florence H. Aged 78 years. Mother of Vicki Sorg Murphy, Francis J. Sorg III, Leslie Sorg Ramsey, Wendi P. Sorg, Thomas Gannon Sorg and Elizabeth Sorg. Grandmother of Bryan F. Murphy, S. Gannon Murphy, Emily Sorg, Kelly Sorg, Tyler Sorg and Gillis Sorg. Great Grandmother of Barnes Gannon Murphy. Devoted volunteer at North Shore University Hospital for many years, and long time violinist with the North Shore Symphony Orchestra and the Long Island Senior Pops Orchestra. Accomplished amateur artist. Visiting hours at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, NY, Wednesday and Thursday 3-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial Friday 11:15 AM at Saint Aidans R.C. Church, 505 Willis Avenue, East Williston, NY. Donations in lieu of flowers may be sent to North Shore University Hospital, Long Island Senior Pops Orchestra or North Shore Symphony Orchestra.
        SORG-Florence. We join together in mourning the sudden loss of a dear friend who served the hospital as an Associate Trustee and a dedicated member of the Auxiliary. Since the hospital began, Florence Sorg devoted herself to North Shore with enthusiasm-as a past Auxiliary President, a member of the Executive Board and an active participant in numerous communities. Volunteers, employees, and physicians alike considered her a friend. This active woman will be missed by all. Our deepest condolences are extended to her family members. Saul Katz and Roy J. Zuckerberg Co-Chairmen, Board of Trustees John S.T. Gallagher and David R. Dantzker, MD Co-Presidents and CEOs North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        SORG-Florence. The sudden loss of a dear friend and long-time auxiliary member has saddened us deeply. As a past Auxiliary President and an active auxiliary volunteer for many years, Florence Sorg was always ready to take on a new responsibility. She made the Auxiliary one of her highest priorities, serving as Vice President of Community Services, Vice President of Fund Raising, and a member of the Nominating and Revisions Committees. She represented North Shore proudly during her term as President of the NassauSuffolk Council of Hospital Auxiliaries. We will miss our dear friend, and join together in expressing our deepest sympathy to her family. Hilary Chilton, President Auxiliary North Shore University Hospital/ Manhasset
      