
        LeBOEUF-Harriet Ross. Died peacefully on February 5, 1998 in her 100th year at her home in Old Westbury, New York. Beloved wife for fifty-four years of the late Randall J. LeBoeuf, Jr., founder of the law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae. She was born in 1898, the daughter of the late Dr. William H. Ross and Frances Dodge Ross of Brentwood, Long Island, N.Y. She attended Bradford Academy, (later known as Bradford College) graduating in the class of 1915, Smith College, class of 1919, and Cornell University Medical School. Loving mother of Joan LeBoeuf Downer, Elizabeth LeBoeuf Jennings, and Suzanne LeBoeuf Keary. Cherished grandmother of Jennie Downer Austin, Katharine H. Downer, Harriet S. Downer, Randall H. LeB. Downer, Sandi Matthews Aten, Barbara Matthews, Wendy Matthews Sherman, Judy Matthews, Nancy Matthews Boyd, Elizabeth Jennings Duane, Anne Jennings Tozzo, and Prescott Jennings III, great grandmother of nineteen, and great great grandmother of two. A dedicated volunteer, she contributed endless time and effort particularly in the area of community health. She will be remembered as a Board member of many agencies, but especially of the Nassau County Health & Welfare Council, the Visiting Nurse Association of Oyster Bay-Glen Cove, and the Family Service Association of Nassau County (she was an Honorary Trustee). Mrs. LeBoeuf was twice elected President of the Albany, N.Y. Junior League of America (1928-30). She was a member of the N.Y.C. Chapter of the Society of Mayflower Descendants and the Peter Gansevoort Chapter, Daughters of the American Revolution. Beyond her family and community her greatest affections were for her home at Point O'Woods, N.Y., for her rose garden and for her many beloved Golden Retrievers. Services will be held Monday, February 9, at 11 A.M. at the Church of the Advent (Jericho Turnpike, Westbury, N.Y.). In lieu of flowers memorial contributions may be sent to either the Visiting Nurse Association of Long Island, 100 Garden City Plaza, Garden City, N.Y. 11530, or the Visiting Nurse Association of Oyster Bay-Glen Cove, 193 South Street, Oyster Bay, N.Y. 11771.
      