
        RUBIN-Ira Lloyd, M.D. It is with great sadness that the death of Ira Lloyd Rubin, M.D. on February 12 is announced. He was the beloved husband of Beatrice Bober Rubin for more than 57 years and the devoted son of the late Dr. Meyer and the late Gertrude Rubin. He is survived by his wife and brother Dr. Adrien Rubin. He was a gifted cardiologist who was greatly loved by both his patients and medical staff. He was the author of numerous classic textbooks and articles on the diagnosis and treatment of heart disease. He was a great philanthropic leader who devoted his time and energy in making this world a better place for all its inhabitants. Dr. Rubin served on Guam as a Major in the United States Army during World War II. He was an attending physician at Montefiore Medical Center since 1949 and a Professor of Medicine at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. When the Department of Electrocardiography at Montefiore was dedicated in his name in 1993, the plaque that was erected so aptly states: ''A leader, a gifted ECG reader, teacher, author, physician, humanitarian and gentleman.'' Funeral services are strictly private. A memorial service celebrating his life will be held at a later date. Donations may be made in his memory to the United Jewish Appeal.
        RUBIN-Dr. Ira Lloyd. The Department of Medicine and the Cardiovascular Division of Montefiore Medical Center and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourn the death of Dr. Ira L. Rubin, Emeritus Professor of Clinical Medicine. Dr. Rubin served Montefiore for almost 60 years and was a member of the Einstein Faculty for over 30 years. His contributions to our institutions have been numerous and invaluable. Among the many important roles that he played was service as acting Medical Director of Montefiore's Morrisania City Hospital Service, Director of Montefiore's Medical Residency Program, and President of the Montefiore Medical Board. As a consummate cardiologist with a worldwide recognition, he authored numerous books and research articles on electrocardiography, and for over 35 years was Director of Electrocardiography at Montefiore. Dr. Rubin taught electrocardiography to countless numbers of cardiology fellows, medical residents and students. But above all, his kind and thoughtful manner, while practicing the very highest level of academic cardiology, made him a role model to young physicians and to peers, as he exemplified the very best personal and professional standards. A giant on our faculty has left us. He will be missed by all. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Bea. Dr. James Scheuer, Chairman Dr. Joan I. Casey, Vice Chairman Dr. J. Anthony Ware, Chief, Cardiovascular Division Dr. John D. Fisher, Director Montefiore Cardiology.
        RUBIN-Ira Lloyd, MD. The President and the Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Ira L. Rubin, MD. A dedicated physician and scientist and a gifted teacher, Dr. Rubin lead the Montefiore Department of Electrocardiography for 35 years. He was a distinguished Cardiologist and a world renowned expert in interpreting electrocardiograms, who made vital contributions to the field and was the author of numerous scientific publications. In his long and distinguished career at Montefiore, Dr. Rubin also served as Director of the Medical Residency Program, President of the Medical Board and President of the Staff and Alumni Association. He was Professor Emeritus of Clinical medicine at the Albert Einstein College of Medinice. His contributions as a clinician, scholar and mentor were extraordinary, and his example as a gentleman unparalleled. In 1993 Dr. Rubin was recognized as the physician honoree at Montefiore's annual celebratory dinner, a reflection of the deep esteemed and affection in which he was held by the entire Montefiore community. We will miss him greatly and extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Beatrice. Spencer Foreman, MD, Pres. Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees, Montefiore Medical Center
        RUBIN-Ira L., M.D. The Executive Committee of the Montefiore Staff and Alumni Association records with great sorrow the passing of our Secretary-Treasurer, former President, mentor and friend. Renowned cardiologist, respected teacher, noted author and leader in the field of electrocardiography, he was honored by the Staff and Alumni Association in 1987 for his outstanding achievements and devotion to patients. His tireless commitment and dedication to the Association will be remembered with gratitude and affection. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Beatrice. Stephen M. Brenner, M.D., Pres Margaret Pinsker, Exec Dir
        RUBIN-Ira L., M.D. The Department of Plastic and Reconstructiive Surgery of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center, mourns the passing of a colleague in the Department of Cardiology. Dr. Rubin served as a mentor for all of us at the Medical Center and the College. We will miss his presence and his sage advice. We offer our deepest condolences to his wife, Beatrice, to his daughter, Jae-wan Hyun, and to the rest of his family. Berish Strauch, M.D. Professor and Chairman and the Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
      