
        LEEDS-Janet. To the most wonderful mother and grandmother, you will always be in our hearts and our thoughts. We will miss you and always love you. Steven, Sheri, Jessica, Danielle and Zachary
        LEEDS-Janet (Cissy). A lover of life, she passed away with courage and dignity. Our beloved sister will be greatly missed and our love goes with her forever. Funeral services will be held 11AM Thursday, March 12, 1998 at Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51 Street, New York City. Diane Belfer and Gladys Kanner.
        LEEDS-Janet. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine record with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved sister of Diane Belfer, our good friend, member of the Einstein Board of Overseers, and Benefactor of both the medical school and the University. We extend our sincere sympathy to Mrs. Belfer and her family, who have played a major role in the life of our institution over many years. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        LEEDS-Janet. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Janet Leeds, beloved sister of Diane Belfer, a prominent leader and extraordinary philanthropist in our community. Mrs. Belfer is a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        LEEDS-Janet. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, Board of Directors and staff extend our heartfelt sympathy to board member Diane Belfer on the passing of her sister. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire family. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman, Co-Chairmen Herman S. Sandler, President Albert Schussler, Pres. Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Dir.
        LEEDS-Janet. Ohr Torah Stone Institutions of Israel records with sorrow the passing of Janet Leeds, beloved sister of Diane Belfer, our friend and supporter. We extend our deepest sympathies to the family. Shlomo Riskin, Dean Fred Ehrman, Pres Ohr Torah Stone Institutions of Israel
        LEEDS-Janet. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to our esteemed members and benefactors, Diane Belfer and Gladys Kanner on the loss of their beloved sister. Our sincere condolences to the entire bereaved family. Rabbi Seth H. Frisch Robert W. Berend, President
        LEEDS-Janet. To our very special aunt ''Cissy'' we love you and will remember your courage, your passion for life and your unconditional love for everyone. We will miss you always. Kenny, Sherry, Kathi, Gary, Stephanie and Susan
        LEEDS-Janet. With sincere condolences to Steven, Diane, Gladys and all the family. David Fischer
      