
        LIPPERT-Albert. We note with sorrow the sudden passing of a Trustee whose personal involvement and philanthropic generosity reflected a selfless devotion to North Shore and the people it serves. Mr. Lippert's business acumen was respected by his fellow Trustees, as well as officials within the System who frequently sought his advice. The Lippert Pavilion, housing a number of important patient services stands as a tribute to the generous nature of this outstanding man. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Felice, and the rest of his family. Paul Karafiol, M.D. President Medical Staff Peter F.R. Walker, M.D. Chairman, Medical Board Lawrence Scherr, M.D. Senior Vice President Medical Affairs North Shore University Hospital
        LIPPERT-Albert. With the sudden passing of Trustee Albert Lippert, our health care system has lost a devoted philanthropist and friend. Through his generosity, Mr. Lippert estabished the Lippert Pavilion at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. The Pavilion is the home of many hospital outpatient facilities. Mr. Lippert was a visionary whose guidance was invaluable in building North Shore University Hospital and the North Shore Health System. Our sincerest condolences go to his wife and family. His interest in good health and his generosity in supporting it, created a lasting legacy that benefits us all. Saul B. Katz Chairman North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        LIPPERT-Albert. Beloved and cherished husband of Felice Mark Lippert, father of Keith and Randy, father-in-law of Connie and Anna Lea, grandfather of Molly and Laila and brother of Lorraine Spivack. Extraordinary co-founder of Weight Watchers International, who helped pioneer and build the world's leading weight control organization. We mourn his passing and pay tribute to his lasting memory. Donations in his memory may be made to the American Ireland Fund, 300 Park Avenue, Suite 1712, New York, New York 10022 for the Albert and Felice Lippert Chair of Jewish Studies at Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland. Weight Watchers International Kent Kreh, President and CEO
        LIPPERT-Albert. It is with a deep sense of sadness that we mark the passing of Albert Lippert, a selfless humanitarian who served as a long-time Trustee of our institutions. Because of his generosity, thousands of patients are cared for each year in the Lippert Pavilion, home to many outpatient services at North Shore in Manhasset. A dear member of the hospital family, he will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences are extended to his wife, Felice, and the rest of his family. John S.T. Gallagher and David R. Dantzker, M.D. Co-Presidents and CEOs North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        LIPPERT-Albert. The Officers, Board of Directors and members of The American Ireland Fund, have learned with profound sadness, of the death of our esteemed friend, Albert (Al) Lippert, husband of our Board Member, Felice Lippert, and a longtime, ardent supporter of the Fund. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Felice and to Keith and Randy and their families.
        LIPPERT-Albert. We join Felice, the Lippert family and Albert Lippert's many friends in mourning his untimely passing. His extraordinary creativity, warmth, kindness, generosity and special sense of humor, will forever inspire all who were privileged to know him. The Richard Maidman family and Gail Lowe Haymes
        LIPPERT-Albert. We mourn the loss of our dear friend of 35 years. Al was a man of intellect, integrity, humor and warmth. We miss him terribly. Our condolences to Felice, Keith and Randy. Howard, Amy, Steven, Richard and Roni Rubenstein
      