
        NOVECK-Carolyn Schnurer. Mrs. Noveck, of Palm Beach, Florida died in Palm Beach on Sunday, March 15, 1998 with her son, Tony, at her bedside. Mrs. Noveck was born and educated in New York City, and moved to Palm Beach over twenty years ago. In New York, she taught at New York University and the Fashion Institute of Technology. Carolyn Schnurer was instrumental in changing women's fashions in beachwear and sportswear, designing complete outfits, and adapting the two-piece bathing suit for the United States market. For these innovations her designs appeared in the pages of ''Vogue'', ''Harper's Bazaar'' and ''Life'' magazines, as well as on the covers. The Awards presented to her from Coty, The Cotton Council, International Sportswear, Miami Sportswear, and Boston Sportswear were among other special recognitions for her achievements. Her sense of humor was often chronicled in newspaper columns. The oft-told tale was the time when she was cautioned in traveling from India to Paris to be sure not to be routed via Iran, as her passport was stamped as having visited Israel, and that was reason enough to be taken from the plane, detained in Iran, and perhaps the cause of an international situation. Announcement was made by the Captain of the plane that they would make an unscheduled stop in Iran, before proceeding on with the itinerary. Immediately a landing card was distributed to each passanger to be filled out, including ''Religion''. In a panic and fear that she would be in trouble on landing in Iran, she thought of her headquarters in New York on Seventh Avenue, and wrote under ''Religion'' Seventh Avenue Adventist, and all was well. In essence, Carolyn Schnurer had flair and style and grace, and devoted herself to her family, and to the successful development of a catering service with her late husband, Lawrence Noveck. Survivors include her son, Anthony T. Schnurer, M.D., her sister, Selma Frank, and her step-children, Jane Strompf and Ralph Noveck. Funeral Services will be private. Interment will take place in Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale, California. A memorial Service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers the family requests contributions In Memory of Carolyn Schnurer to Hospice of Palm Beach County, 3300 East Avenue, West Palm Beach, Florida. For further information, please contact Quattlebaum-Holleman-Burse Funeral Home, 1201 South Olive Avenue, West Palm Beach.
      