
        FIER-Dr. Morton. Of Ridgewood, New Jersey. Beloved husband of Ricki; cherished son of Freda; devoted father of Ian, Carl and Claudia; father-in-law of Layne and Rachel; brother of Leonard; loving grandfather of Hannah, Samantha and Daniel. He was an attending psychiatrist for more than 35 years at Hackensack University Medical Center, beloved by his patients, colleagues and students alike. He was a gifted Professor of Psychiatry. We will miss and love him forever. Contributions may be made to the Morton Fier Memorial Fund, c/o Arthur Middleton, M.D. For information, ''Gutterman-Musicant,'' 1-800-522-0588.
        FIER-Morton, M.D. Passed away on March 21, 1998, at the age of 66. The members and staff of the Department of Psychiatry at Hackensack University Medical Center deeply mourn his loss. He was an integral part of the Medical Center since 1964, and established and led the psychiatric inpatient unit for 30 years. Born in New York, he completed his medical training in Vienna and his psychiatric training at Bellevue Medical Center. He completed analytic training at New York Medical College. Dr. Fier was loved and respected by all his colleagues. He was a true physician, understanding his patients as people and caring for them in a compassionate and professional manner. He taught us that psychiatry was an integral part of all medical practice, and emphasized the importance of considering the mind and body as a whole. He was Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at UMDNJ-Newark, and his devotion to medical education inspired generations of medical students and residents from the medical school, who looked to him as a role model. Dr. Fier imparted humility and wisdom to his students. He loved music, art, and literature. Most of all he loved his family. He is survived by his mother, Freda; his wife, Ricki; his three children, Ian, Carl and Claudia; his daughters-inlaw, Rachel and Layne; and his grandchildren, Hannah, Samantha and Daniel. He will be remembered and mourned by his family, colleagues and friends. Dept. of Psychiatry, H.U.M.C.
        FIER-Morton. A most dear, loved friend. Goodbye does not seem possible. Thank you for our years of friendship. It wasn't enough time. Rest peacefully. Arlene and Stuart
        FIER-Dr. Morton. Mort, some of our happiest times were spent with you and Ricki. We will miss you. Dana and Ira
      