
        BEATTIE-Edward J., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent corporation, Greater Metropolitan Health Systems, Inc., in acknowledging with deep sadness the passing of our beloved colleague and friend, Ted Beattie, M.D. Beth Israel welcomed Dr. Beattie to its medical staff in 1985 following his years of distinguished service at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (where he was Chief of Staff and Chairman of Surgery) and other leading medical institutions. At Beth Israel, he served as the first Director of the David B. Kriser Lung Cancer Center and Chief of Thoracic Surgery, and, since 1995, provided outstanding leadership in the development of the Beth Israel Cancer Center. The rapid growth and expansion of our initiatives in the diagnosis and treatment of cancer stand as his legacy to the thousands of patients who turned to us for help. He will be greatly missed by all who knew and worked with him. To his wife Nicole, his son Bruce, his brother James, his grandson Edward, the entire Beattie family, and all who loved him, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Boards of Trustees, GMHS and BIMC Robert G. Newman, M.D. President and CEO, GMHS Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO, BIMC Jerome S. Breslaw, M.D. President, Medical Board, BIMC Sidney K. Stein, M.D. President, Doctors Alumni Assoc.
        BEATTIE-Edward J., M.D. The passing of our dear friend, respected colleague and dedicated teacher is noted by his many friends in Beth Israel Medical Center's Department of Surgery, where he served for more than a decade as our Chief of Thoracic Surgery and Director for the David B. Kriser Lung Cancer Center. He truly was a leader in his field, a ''surgeon's surgeon.'' To his family and loved ones, our sincere condolences. Moses Nussbaum, M.D. Chairman Warren Enker, M.D. Vice Chairman Steven Keller, M.D. Chief, Thoracic Surgery and Director, David B. Kriser Lung Cancer Ctr.
        BEATTIE-Edward J., M.D. The physicians, nurses and staff of the Beth Israel Cancer Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Ted Beattie, M.D. His wisdom, farsightedness and determination served as a cornerstone for the establishment and rapid growth and expansion of our Center. His optimism and spirit will be missed, but his commitment to the care and treatment of individuals with cancer will remain with us forever. To his wife Nicole, his family and friends, our deepest sympathies. Roy Sessions, M.D. Chrmn., Dept. of Otolaryngology and Acting Medical Director, Cancer Center Marilyn Halper Executive Director, Cancer Center
      