
        LEEDS-Janet. To the most wonderful mother and grandmother, you will always be in our hearts and our thoughts. We will miss you and always love you. Steven, Sheri, Jessica, Danielle and Zachary
        LEEDS-Janet. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of The American Friends of The Hebrew University, mourn the passing of Janet Leeds, beloved sister of Diane Belfer, and esteemed member of our Board of Directors and benefactor of The Hebrew University. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire family. The American Friends of The Hebrew University Lawrence Newman, Chairman of the Board Keith L. Sachs, President Adam B. Kahan, Executive V.P.
        LEEDS-Janet. The Wellness Community-SE Florida extends deepest sympathy to sisters Diane Belfer, Gladys Kanner, son Steven Charlse and family. Janet, our colleague, friend, founding Board member, you will always be lovingly remembered for your outstanding contributions, clear understanding of our mission and willingness to help others fight cancer. Our profound sadness is comforted only by knowing that your loving spirit will remain with us always. We love you and miss you deeply.
        LEEDS-Janet (Cissy). A lover of life, she passed away with courage and dignity. Our beloved sister will be greatly missed and our love goes with her forever. Funeral services will be held 11AM Thursday, March 12, 1998 at Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51 Street, New York City. Diane Belfer and Gladys Kanner.
        LEEDS-Janet. New York University extends its heartfelt sympathy to Board Member, Diane Belfer, on the passing of her beloved sister. Our deepest condolences go out to the entire family. Laurence A. Tisch, Chairman of the Board of Trustees L. Jay Oliva, President
        LEEDS-Janet. The Board of Directors of America-Israel Cultural Foundation extends its heartfelt sympathies to Vice President Diane Belfer and her sister Gladys Kanner on the loss of their beloved sister. Vera Stern, President
        LEEDS-Janet. To our very special aunt ''Cissy'' we love you and will remember your courage, your passion for life and your unconditional love for everyone. We will miss you always. Kenny, Sherry, Kathi, Gary, Stephanie and Susan
      