
        WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. We mourn the death of our beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother, Betsey Cushing Whitney, who died on March 25, 1998. Her sense of humor, her determination and her courage will be with us always. Our thanks to all who have communicated their love and support. A memorial service to celebrate her life will be held on April 25 at 11AM, Christ Church, Northern Boulevard, Manhasset. In lieu of flowers, contributions to North Shore University Hospital and New York Hospital.
        WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of the New York & Presbyterian Hospital and Cornell University Medical College are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend, devoted benefactor, and Life Governor Betsey Cushing Whitney. The generous support of Mrs. Whitney and her family has enabled us to fulfull our longstanding committment to patient care, research, medical education and community service. Mrs. Whitney's dedication to advancing the art and science of medicine will serve as a model of inspiration to future generations. We mourn the loss of this great lady, and we join with all of those who will miss her grace, her spirit, and her warmth. Our deepest condolences are extended to her family. Daniel B. Burke Co-Chairman, Board of Trustees The New York and Presbyterian Hospital John F. McGillicuddy Co-Chairman, Board of Trustees The New York and Presbyterian Hospital David B. Skinner, M.D. Vice Chairman and CEO The New York and Presbyterian Hospital William T. Speck, M.D. President and COO The New York and Presbyterian Hospital Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Cornell University Medical College Antonio M. Gotto, Jr., M.D. Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean Cornell University Medical College
        WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. The Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art and Members of its International Council are deeply saddened by the passing of Honorary Trustee Betsey Whitney, a longtime friend of the Museum and a 40-year member of the Council. She and her husband John Hay Whitney were thoughtful and devoted patrons of the Museum as well as generous benefactors and donors. To her daughters Kate and Sara and to her grandchildren and greatgrandchildren, we send our warmest and most heartfelt sympathy. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Musuem of Modern Art, NY Sir Brian Urquhart, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        WHITNEY-Betsey. The Fresh Air Fund mourns the loss of Mrs. John Hay Whitney, a life director of the Fresh Air Fund. Mrs. Whitney worked selflessly to ensure that thousands of disadvantaged children were enriched by Fund programs. She will be remembered fondly for her generosity of spirit, acts of kindness and devotion to New York City's neediest children. We extend our deepest sympathy to Mrs. Whitney's family, especially her daughter, Fresh Air Board member Kate R. Whitney. Mrs. Donald Newhouse Chairman of the Board C. Stephen Heard, Jr., President Jenny Morgenthau, Executive Director
        WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. I note with deep sorrow the passing of Betsey Cushing Whitney, a loyal friend and generous benefactor of North Shore University Hospital. Together with her late husband, Jock, this gracious and gentle person was one of the Hospital's most committed donors of both funds and selfless time and energy; together their vision helped create a major medical center. We will miss her kindness and her friendship. Sincere condolences are extended to her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Lawrence Scherr, M.D., MACP Chairman, Dept of Medicine North Shore University Hospital/ Manhasset
        WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. Irwin H. Kramer, President
      