
        FINKLE-Joel. Of New York City and Palm Beach, Florida, on March 29, 1998. Son of the late Benjamin and Hinda Finkle. Brother of Ann Odel and Edith Horwitt and the late Celia David and Mary Pollen. He is survived by his cherished wife Maria, loving daughter Joan Swirsky and son Jonathan Finkle, grandchildren, Seth, David and Karen, and great-grandson, Julian and brother-in-law Walter Weil. He was predeceased by his son Zachary Dan. In his lifetime, the vast scope of his charities addressed the needs of Jewish people throughout the world. He provided inspiration, leadership, and substance to every cause to which he devoted his formidable energy, and embodied vitality, optimism, and joie-de-Vivre in his everyday life. Funeral services were held on Monday, Fifth Avenue Synagogue. Shiva will be observed at 930 Fifth Avenue until Sunday A.M., April 4th. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in his memory to the Maria and Joel Finkle Center for counseling at Bar Ilan University, 91 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10003.
        FINKLE-Joel. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn with great sorrow the passing of one of the University's most generous and cherished benefactors, Joel Finkle. An exemplary businessman of great principle, he commanded the respect and admiration of the Jewish and secular worlds for his keen business sense, unshakable personal integrity and abiding philanthropic spirit. Together with his beloved wife, Maria, Joel wrote an unforgettable chapter in the University's annals. The first chairman of Bar-Ilan American Friends, he and Maria became associated with the University as Trustees at the time of Rabbi Rackman's presidency. Since then, the Finkles shared every undertaking that was Rabbi Rackman's, traveling to Israel each year for the last twenty. Generous and devoted University leaders, the Finkle's created several scholarship funds at Bar-Ilan including one to benefit female students of the University's Law School, for which Maria received Bar-Ilan's Woman of Valor Award and an honorary doctorate. Together they established the University's Student Counseling Center for which Joel donated the building in the name of Maria and her adored friend Ruth Rackman. But beyond their philanthropic spirit and what made them so beloved to Bar-Ilan, was that all their benefactions were given selflessly, unostentatiously and with profound love for Israel and the Jewish people. To Maria and the entire Finkle family, we extend heartfelt condolences and pray for Maria's lasting good health and continued leadership in our cause. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Bar-Ilan University Prof. Moshe Kaveh, President Bar-Ilan University Selik Wengrowsky, Chairman Bar-Ilan Global Board of Trustees Melvin Stein, President American Friends of Bar-Ilan President, American Friends Brig. Gen. (Res) Yehuda Halevy Executive Vice President Bar-Ilan University
        FINKLE-Joel. ''The world stands on three principles: Torah, Avodah and G'milut Chasadim''. The students of Boys Town Jerusalem's Maria and Joel Finkle Torah and Technology Academy, and the school's extended worldwide family, mourn with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed Board Member, a noble human being who personified in thought and deed the lofty values of Torah study, community service and acts of lovingkindness. His generosity which benefitted so many deserving causes was all the more meaningful because of the humble and unassuming way in which he offered support. He was joined in all his noble endeavors by his partner in life and philanthropy, his beloved Maria, who serves with distinction on our Board of Directors. Together they established major scholarship endowments in memory of both Zachary Dan Finkle and Walter Weil, and they dedicated the Maria and Joe Finkle Garden in the Children's Park representing a special scholarship fund in memory of Boys Town's alumni and family who made the supreme sacrifice defending the State of Israel. We have lost a most cherished friend, but Reb Yehuda ben Harav Binyomin's legacy of chesed and tzedakah will endure as a lasting blessing and source of inspiration for all. Ha'Makom y'nachem eschem besoch sha'ar avelei Tzion v'Yerushalayim. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rebbetzin Beatrice Linchner Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Exec. VP
        FINKLE-Joel. The Yeshiva University family expresses profound sorrow on the passing of a cherished friend, a distinguished communal leader who was a Board member of our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. He and his wife, Maria, are YU Benefactors who advanced a wide range of University programs. They established RIETS' Joel and Maria Finkle Visiting Israeli Rosh Yeshiva Program and were Founders of our Albert Einstein College of Medicine. Mr. Finkle received RIETS' Harbatzat Torah Award in 1993; Mrs. Finkle was granted a YU honorary degree the same year. We extend heartfelt condolences to Mrs. Finkle; children, Joan (and David) Swirsky and Jonathan (and Judy) Finkle; grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Judah Feinerman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees
        FINKLE-Joel. Ariel United Israel Institute and American Friends of Ariel-Midrasha mourn deeply the passing of our former President and most devoted friend and supporter, lover of Torah and Israel, Joel Finkle and express sincere heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife our good friend and supporter, Dr. Maria Finkle. May God comfort her among all mourners of Zion and Jerusalem to continue to do her good work for many years to come. Rabbi Shear-Yashuv Cohen, Chancellor Natalio S. Fridman, Pres. Lawrence A. Kobrin, Chairman Board of Governors Michael D. Jaspan, Treasurer
        FINKLE-Joel. The entire family of Ezrath Nashim/Herzog Hospital (Jerusalem) mourns the passing of Joel Finkle, Z'L, a pillar of support to us for decades. He was truly a man of action who was guided by a commitment to Jewish values, community and philanthropy. His leadership inspired us all. By his example, wonderful deeds and humility, he has surely merited the reward of Eternal Life. Our heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife, Maria, and the Finkle family. From the Boards, Officers and Staff of Ezrath Nashim/Herzog Hospital and American Friends
        FINKLE-Joel. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of an esteemed friend and benefactor who, together with his dear wife, Maria, established the Zachary Dan Finkle Memorial Scholarship Fund in memory of their son to enable many students to receive a Ramaz education. His many good deeds and his glorious philanthropy will live on after him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Maria Finkle, to the family and to the community. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Prin David N. Kahn, Ch Board Trustees
        FINKLE-Joel. The New York Board of Rabbis mourns the passing of the Vice Chairman of its lay Advisory Council and unique benefactor. A generous supporter, creator of the Rabbi of the Year Award and Free Loan Fund, he loved Torah and revered all rabbis. May Maria and his mourners be comforted. Rabbi Marc Schneier, President Rabbi G.S. Rosenthal, Exec. VP Armand Lindenbaum, President Advisory Council Mortimer Propp, Chairman Of The Board
        FINKLE-Joel. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its dedicated Trustee and former Vice President. His devotion to the Synagogue and to the outstanding institutions of Jewish life was extraordinary and exemplary. Heartfelt sympathy is extended to his beloved wife Maria and the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres. David Yagoda, Chairman Prof. William Schwartz, Pres.
        FINKLE-Joel. On behalf of the children of Be'er Hagolah Institutes for Russian immigrants who were so dear to Joel Finkle, we express our deep sorrow on his passing. Our deepest condolences to his wife Maria and to his entire family who shared with him a life dedicated to the service of our people. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Pearl Kaufman, Director
        FINKLE-Joel. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva records with deep sorrow the passing of a longtime friend and supporter of our institutions in Israel and Religious Zionist education. May the family be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marvin S. Bienenfeld, Chairman Joel M. Schreiber, President Rabbi David Warshaw, Exec. Dir.
        FINKLE-Joel. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, its Men's Club and Sisterhood mourn the passing of their devoted member and extend heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Fred Distenfeld, President
        FINKLE-Joel. RE'UTH mourns the passing of a loyal friend and benefactor, and extends heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife, Maria, our Board Member, and to the bereaved family. Rosa Strygler, President Ursula Merkin, Chairman
        FINKLE-Joel. For a man who truly personified the meaning of Tzedakah. To Maria and family our sincerest condolences. Dr. and Mrs. Sidney Feuerstein
        FINKLE-Joel. Our heartfelt condolences to our dear friend Maria whose husband Joel will be sorely missed. Jean and Herman Martin
      