
        SIERRA-Marcelino F. (Ph.D.) Of Rockville Centre. Succumbed on March 16 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital, at age 54 following a long, noble, hard fought battle against cancer. His family, friends and colleagues deeply mourn his passing. He was a loving husband to Lorraine; beloved son of Natalie; a devoted father to Michael and Kevin; dear brother of Elisa Guttierez; cherished uncle of Miguel Guttierez and a caring and loyal friend to all who were touched by him, and a leader in his chosen field of microbiology. He received his Ph.D. in microbiology from St. John's University and since 1974, had been the Director of Microbiology at King's County Hospital Center and the University Hospital of Brooklyn and Associate Professor of Pathology at the SUNY Health Science Center at Brooklyn. He was a member of the American Society for Microbiology, the New York Society of Infectious Diseases, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Infectious Diseases Society of America, the Pan American Group for Rapid Viral Diagnosis, and he was the Chairman of the Microbiology Division of the New York Academy of Science (from 1984-1986) and Codirector of Workshop in Clinical Laboratory Sciences. He is the author of numerous scientific publications and was especially recognized for his contributions to the development of methods for the laboratory diagnosis of mycobacterial infections. In 1997 he received the bio Merieux Vitek Distinguished Achievements in Clinical Microbiology Award for his contributions to the NYC branch of the American Society for Microbiology. Visiting Thursday and Friday 2-4 and 7-9 P.M. at the Clavin Funeral Home, 7722 4th Ave, Brooklyn. Mass of Christian burial, Saturday, 10:15 A.M. at St. Patrick's R.C. Church, Bklyn. In lieu of flowers or donations to charities, contributions may be sent to: The Dr. Marcelino F. Sierra Memorial Fund. Kindly make checks payable to: The NYC Branch of the ASM and mail them to: P.O. Box 736, Westbury, New York 11590. His impact was profound, both personal and professional. Goodness, generosity, compassion, wisdom and strength are his legacy.
        SIERRA-Marcelino F., Ph.D. The Faculty and Staff of the Department of Pathology, SUNY Health Science Center at Brooklyn and Kings County Hospital Center, mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Marcel Sierra. Dr. Sierra was a distinguished microbiologist who made major contributions to his field and our medical center. His energy, enthusiasm, wisdom, good humor, and fundamental decency earned the respect and affection of all who knew him. We share the grief of his wife, our faculty member, Dr. Lorraine Clarke, and send sincere condolences to the family. Suzanne S. Mirra, MD, Chair, Department of Pathology
      