
        FREEDMAN-Helene Yeshilian. Died Tuesday, March 10, 1998 at home in Montclair, New Jersey, after facing acute leukemia with great courage and fortitude for nearly three years. She was born in Chelsea, Mass., October 5, 1939, the daughter of Martin Yeshilian and Flora Harvey Yeshilian. She attended public schools in Chelsea and graduated from Jackson College, Tufts University in 1961 with a B.A. in English, Magna Cum Laude and a teaching certification. Ms. Freedman began her teaching career in Medford, Massachusetts and following her marriage in 1962 taught in upstate New York for two years while her husband attended law school at Cornell. After his graduation they moved to Montclair because she was offered a teaching position in the Montclair schools. She was a reading specialist at Nishuane School until 1967 when she left because of the birth of her first child Susan. Her son John followed in 1970. When he reached school age in 1976, Ms. Freedman returned to teaching at Montclair High School, in the English Department, where she remained until her illness forced her retirement, in March of last year. In 1977, Ms. Freedman received a Master of Arts degree in reading from Montclair State College and was elected to the Phi Kappa Phi Honor society. Ms. Freedman was very active at Montclair High School. Among her positions she was a long time member of the Faculty Council, served on the Language Arts Curriculum Review Committee, conducted English Award Programs, served on various scholarship committees, was an advisor for the ESL Club and served as an officer of the PTSO. Ms. Freedman was singled out at the high school by the Montclair Board of Education in December 1992 to receive a Service Excellence Award for ''...dedication, commitment and outstanding service to the students in the Montclair Public Schools.'' Ms. Freedman was an avid reader and crossword puzzler. Prior to her illness she was very active in aerobic dancing. She is survived by her husband, Philip Freedman, who is a Judge of the Superior Court of New Jersey in Newark, her daughter Susan who is an attorney with the Office of the Public Defender and her son John who is a graphic designer. She is also survived by her father, of Chelsea, her sister Susan Manaras and her husband John and their daughters Katie and Jane of Brookline, Massachusetts and her sister-in-law Dr. Marsha Freedman of Bayonne, New Jersey. Funeral arrangements are private. The family will be receiving visitors at home, 35 Cambridge Road, Montclair, New Jersey on Wednesday, March 11 and Thursday, March 12 from 4:00 to 8:00 P.M. Ms. Freedman's family is establishing a charitable foundation in her memory. Anyone wishing to make a tax deductible donation may do so by sending a check payable to the Helene Freedman Foundation at the Cambridge Road address.
      