
        WEISSMAN-K.B. A devoted and loyal Trustee of the Optometric Center of NY & of SUNY College of Optometry, K.B. Weissman was a staunch advocate of care for the needy and underprivileged. For more than 3 decades, Ben constantly proselytized for better care for children, particularly those who were poor and who lacked access to professional services. Always interested in young people who were students and future professionals, he helped countless hundreds through his generosity and unfailing commitment to their needs. The Board of Trustees of the Optometric Center of New York, of which he was for many years an officer and former president, extend to the members of the Weissman family, indeed, to his multitude of friends and colleagues, profound condolences on this unhappy occasion. He lived a long, productive and fruitful life by understanding, by giving and by loyalty. Dr. Alden N. Haffner, President, SUNY College of Optometry Mr. Thomas A. Farrell, President, Board of Trustees, Optometric Center of New York
        WEISSMAN-K.B. The Board of Trustees of the Solomon Schechter School of Westchester mourns the death of its esteemed member, K.B. Weissman. K.B., with Edna beside him, was a vital force in assisting our school during its formative years. The Edna Weissman Auditorium, a gift of the Weissman family, made possible new program dimensions for our children. His was a commitment to our community which he demonstrated over many years and in many special ways. His memory will be a lasting blessing. We offer our deepest condolences to Edna and the family. The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester M. Mac Schwebel, Chairman, Board of Trustees James M. Dubin, Vice Chairman, Board of Trustees Dr. Elliot Spiegel, Headmaster
        WEISSMAN-K.B. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our good friend and generous supporter, K.B. Weissman. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Edna and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        WEISSMAN-K.B. We mourn the passing of my esteemed father-inlaw and our good friend. A brilliant man, he was the patriarch and caretaker of his loving family and a lifetime leader in the world of finance and philantropy. An era has ended and he will be greatly missed. Vivien Weissman STanley Wolfson
        WEISSMAN-K.B. The Members and Staff of the Falls Country Club wish to express their sincere condolences to K.B. Weissman's family on the passing of our friend and fellow member. The Board of Governors, Bernard Howard, President
        WEISSMAN-K.B. We will always miss our cherished friend, chess partner, confidant and ''big brother.'' We share our sadness with Edna and the family. Rhoda and Ray Ring
        WEISSMAN-K.B. To K.B. from his grandchildren, for your inspiration and for your love. Sam, Alisha, Robin, Bruce, Alex, Scott, Ronnie and Corrie
      