
        WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. It is with profound sadness that we note the passing of this dedicated and generous benefactor. Mrs. Whitney gave wholeheartedly to fulfill a dream shared by thousands-the creation of a hospital on Long Island's North Shore. During its early years of growth, she continued to devote her energy to the betterment of the institution and the community. This exceptional woman will always be remembered as one of those who set the groundwork for the development of one of the largest health care systems in the country. Mrs. Whitney's title of Honorary Chairman of the Board at the time of her passing symbolized her family's long-time dedication, spirit and commitment to North Shore University Hospital. The entire hospital family will sorely miss this great lady. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her family. John S.T. Gallagher & David R. Dantzker, M.D., Co-Presidents, CEOs Administration and Employees North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. We join together in mourning a Founder and benefactor whose tireless devotion served as a spark in creating North Shore Hospital, and ultimately, the North ShoreLong Island Jewish Health System. Current and future generations will continue to benefit from the unselfish efforts and service Mrs. Whitney gave to North Shore. With courageous goals and generous ideals, she and her family members shaped the philosophy and practice of the hospital that grew into one of the finest health care delivery systems in the nation. Her efforts helped establish the philosophy that remains true today: a superior facility that provides patient care, research, education and community service. Mrs. Whitney will live in our memory as an essential force as we go forward in developing health care for the region. Saul Katz, Chairman, Board of Trustees North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. The passing of Betsey Cushing Whitney signifies the end of an era for North Shore University Hospital. It was the generosity of Mrs. Whitney and her family, that enabled North Shore to establish roots strong enough for its growth and development into one of the finest medical institutions in the country. Her generosity, personal involvement, and indomitable spirit-even in recent years of declining healthwere an inspiration to all. As Honorary Chairman of the Board, she set an example for future generations. Her graciousness and warmth will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to her family. Paul Karafiol, M.D., President, Medical Staff Peter F. R. Walker, M.D., Chairman, Medical Board Lawrence Scherr, M.D., Sr. Vice President, Medical Affairs North Shore University Hospital/ Manhasset
        WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. It is with deepest sorrow that I mourn the passing of my dear friend, Betsey Whitney. She, along with Jock, helped provide the philosophic guidance that has steered North Shore over the years. Her great generosity helped it grow into one of the finest medical institutions in the country. Without her leadership, foresight, spirit, and commitment, our work in building a great hospital would have been much more difficult. The memories of our time together will remain in my heart and always be a comfort to me. My most sincere condolences are extended to her family. Jack Hausman
        WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. It is with great sorrow that we note the passing of a generous humanitarian. Betsey Whitney had the foresight to understand the need for a world-class health system in the growing region. Her strength was instrumental in ensuring North Shore's growth. We are grateful for her philanthropy, and are proud of the facility she helped create. Hilary Chilton, Auxiliary President, North Shore University Hospital/ Manhasset
        WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. Betsey Whitney was a benefactor of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City over many years and a longtime personal friend. We extend our sincere condolences to her family. Jack Hausman, Founder Leo Hausman, President UCP of NYC, Inc.
      