
        SCHULMAN-Steven Glenn. Beloved husband of Laura. Devoted father of Matthew and Stephanie. Adored son of Marlene and Jerry. Cherished brother of Mindy and Jon, Jeffrey and Diane. Darling son-in-law of Esther and Herman Ching. Brother-in-law of Norton. Dear uncle of Melissa, Amanda and Carly. Private family services at Union Field Cemetery.
        SCHULMAN-Steven. You fought a brave fight, with humor, and love as your shield. while all of our hearts are heavy because you have left us with your life cut so short, we know that you are now at peace and not suffering anymore. We all wanted so much to see you this past year, but most of us were not able to. We spoke, wrote and e-mailed, and through it all you always kept your wonderful wit. We know that while we had not seen much of you since you moved to California, we know that you loved us, and we all loved you. We will always have our memories, hide and seek, and playing in the attic at Twin Gables, Sunday morning bagels and lox with Papa, family Sunday dinners and parties, playing hockey in the basement, always driving around in your car, boating, chocolate pudding pie, and the odd couple. Prior to this last year, you lived a great life with your beautiful wife Laura, and your children Mathew and Stephanie. We will always be there for them. We are all proud of you, for the success you achieved in business, making it on your own, and for the way you fought this horrible cancer. You will be in our hearts forever. Love your Cousins
        SCHULMAN-Steven. Our hearts are filled with deep sadness at your passing. Your strength and courage through unbeatable odds are a true testament to your greatness. We will always remember your sweet smile, the twinkle in your beautiful blue eyes and your incredible sense of humor. You will be in our hearts forever. Aunt Carol and Uncle Bob Aunt Roz and Alan Uncle Eddie and Joanne Aunt Brenda and Uncle Bob
        SCHULMAN-Steven. We join together in great sorrow to mourn the passing of Steven, who died after fighting a courageous and impossible battle. He will be remembered for his sweetness, good humor, enthusiasm for life and his place in his wonderful and loving family. Our heartfelt sympathy to our dearest friends Marlene and Jerry and their entire family. Steven, you'll be remembered always. Marcia and Jack and Sylvia and Marvin
        SCHULMAN-Steven Glenn. Our blue eyed angel, courageous and funny to the end, tough and tender, bright and spirited, you made life fun. Our hearts are broken, but we know that nothing can ever truly separate us. Love, Your Brothers and Sisters Mindy, Jon, Jeffrey and Diane
        SCHULMAN-Steven Glenn. Our dearest uncle Stevie. We will always smile when we remember your kisses and jokes. We were so lucky to be your nieces. Love, Amanda, Carly and Melissa
        SCHULMAN-Steven. May you rest in peace. Our heartfelt condolences to the Schulman family. Bea, Eileen and Bob, Lisa and Paul
      