
        WEISSMAN-K.B. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound regret at the loss of K.B. Weissman of Palm Beach, FL. A life trustee of the ATS Board of Regents and an alternate member of the International Board of Governors of the Technion, he was fervent in his support of excellence in scientific education and research. Mr. Weissman and his wife, Edna, became Technion Guardians, having reached the highest level of commitment and vision for the ATS and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology. They generously contributed to many vital Technion programs including student dormitories, the Greater Palm Beach Industrial Robotics Center, scholarships and faculty recruitment funds, and gave freely of time and energy in the leadership of the Palm Beach Chapter. In recognition of his efforts on behalf of the university, K.B. was awarded an honorary fellowship from the Technion in 1997, and had the K.B. Weissman Boulevard named on the Technion campus. K.B. had a keen mind and great wisdom, and served as mentor, advisor and strategist in our organization. We feel Mr. Weissman's loss with profound sorrow and extend our heartfelt condolences to Edna and the entire Weissman family. American Society for TechnionIsrael Institute of Technology Irving A. Shepard President Ben Z. Sosewitz Chairman of the Board Melvyn H. Bloom Executive Vice President Sam B. Topf, Chairman Southern Region Richard P. Zaretsky, President Palm Beach Chapter Albert G. Effrat, Director Southern Region Ileane Rayman-Kaufman, Assistant Director Palm Beach Chapter
        WEISSMAN-K.B. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a dear friend, benefactor, and man of social conscience, who considered helping the ill and less fortunate to be one of life's mandates. His good deeds, including the establishment, with his wife, Edna, of a substance abuse research program at our institution, are a legacy of compassion and caring that will be an enduring inspiration to us all. To Edna and the family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. Dr. Norman Lamm President Yeshiva University Burton P. Resnick Chairperson Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        WEISSMAN-K.B. With profound sorrow, the administration, faculty, students, alumni, staff and friends of the New York University College of Dentistry record the passing of our beloved benefactor and devoted friend, K.B. Weissman. Over many decades, Mr. Weissman's support for all health education, patient care and research at the NYU College of Dentistry expressed not solely his philanthropy but also his devotion to helping people. The College's K.B. Weissman Clinical Science Building, named in his honor, recognizes his unwavering committment to dental education and the people it serves. He was a great humanitarian, and we will miss him dearly. To his wife, Edna, and his entire family, we offer heartfelt condolences. Edward G. Kaufman, D.D.S., Dean
        WEISSMAN-K.B. The Weizmann Institute of Science and its American Committee are deeply grieved by the passing of a legendary friend and lifelong supporter, Governor Emeritus of the Institute and Honorary Vice Chairman of ACWIS, Whose vision inspired his gift of the K.B. Weissman Institute of Physical Sciences. His wise leadership and effective commitment spanned decades. We express our sincere condolences to his wife Edna, his son Alan, and their families. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Haim Harari, President S. Donald Sussman, Chairman American Committee Albert Willner, M.D., President Fran Ginsburg, Exec., V.P.
        WEISSMAN-Ben. K.B., we met too late and you left too soon. Thank you for the years of friendship we shared. Rest in peace. Harriet and Buddy
      