
        COHEN-Isadore H. Died on February 27, at age 90. He is survived by his sons James of Rhinebeck, NY, John of Shelburne Falls, MA, and David of Chelsea, MI; by his daughters-in-law Linda Putnam and Magdalene Lampert, his grandchildren Lisa and Sarah Cohen, Amy, Rachel and Eli Putnam, his great-grandsons Abraham Tapia and Jacob Putnam Hill, and his longtime friend and advisor, Kalman D. Rothman. Isadore Cohen's life mixed great ability, hard work, and professional accomplishment with family difficulties. He was born on the lower East Side of Manhattan to poor Russian immigrant parents, and moved with them to Connecticut when he was a young child, where his father owned and operated a series of small dairy farms. He attended the Norwich Free Academy where he was a gifted student, and won several scholarships to Yale. He graduated Yale College in 1929 Phi Beta Kappa and summa cum laude, and the Yale Law School in 1932, second in his class and a member of the Yale Law Review. Mr. Cohen took a position with Austrian and Lance in New York City after graduation, and worked for more than ten years on bank liquidations and other matters related to the Great Depression. In the course of that decade he published more than a dozen scholarly articles in the Columbia, Yale and other law reviews, while carrying on a full-time legal practice. He married the late Eleanor Kastner in 1932. They moved to Valley Cottage in Rockland County for a year in 1938, and then to West Nyack in 1939. He continued to practice law in New York City for several decades, moving to private practice in Rockland County in the late 60's. His marriage and family life grew increasingly troubled, and Isadore and Eleanor Cohen separated permanently in 1962, which began a long estrangement from his family. But in recent years Mr. Cohen was reconciled with his sons and their families, and greatly enjoyed their company and love. He moved to Grandview-on-Hudson in 1962, and lived there until a few weeks before his death.
      