
        ORGANSKI-Professor Abramo Fimo Kenneth. Political scientist and educator, died on March 6 of a heart attack. Dr. Organski was born in Rome in 1923, where he attended the Ginnasio Liceo Torquato Tasso. He came to the United States with his parents Menasce and Anna (Feinstein) Organski and his brother Guido in 1939 as his family fled the anti-Jewish laws of the Mussolini regime. He settled in New York where he became an American citizen in 1944. He served with the American armed forces from 1943 to 1945 and then went on to earn a BA (1947), MA (1948) and Ph.D. (1951) from New York University. After teaching at Brooklyn College from 1952-1964, he joined the faculty of the University of Michigan. At the time of his death, he was professor of political science and Senior Research Scientist in the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan. He was also Chairman of the Board of Decision Insights, New York, NY. His books included ''World Politics; Population and World Power'', coauthored with his first wife Katherine Davis Fox; ''Birth, Death and Taxes'' written with several of his students; ''Stages of Political Development; The War Ledger'' written with Jacek Kugler; and ''The 36 Billion Dollar Bargain.'' Dr. Organski's honors included the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award by the University of Michigan, a lifetime achievement award by the Conflict Processes Section of the American Political Science Association, and the Cavalieri dela Republica by the government of Italy. In addition to his intellectual depth and orginality, Kenneth Organski will be remembered for his zest for life, love of language, human warmth and gift for friendship. He was a devoted husband, father and grandfather and will be deeply mourned by his wife, Patricia Joan Bard; his daughter, Elizabeth Anna Organski-Horn and her husband, Steven Horn of Whitmore Lake, MI; his son, Eric Fox Organski of Savannah, GA; his grandson, Steve Horn, Jr; his brother, Guido Organschi of Litchfield, CT; and by generations of devoted students. A memorial service will be held on April 18 at 4 PM in East Hall at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, MI. Memorial contributions may be made to the A.F.K. Organski Fund, Center for Political Studies, University of Michigan.
      