
        POCHAPIN-Anne. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of our dear friend, Rita Rosen. Mrs. Pochapin was a member of our Society of Founders. Her concern for others will live in perpetuity in the good works of her daughter, Rita, and son-in-law, Philip. Benefactors of our medical school and Guardians of our University, Rita and Phil are esteemed members of the Einstein Board of Overseers, who have established the Philip and Rita Rosen Department of Communications and Public Affairs at our institution. To Rita, Phil and the entire family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        POCHAPIN-Anne Ruben, 98. Beloved wife of the late Max M. Pochapin, loving mother of Rita Rosen and the late Stuart Pochapin. Cherished mother-in-law of Philip Rosen and Sandra Pochapin Kohn. Grandmother of Phyllis and Rod Raskin, Wendy and Robert Landes, Michael Rosen and Stephanie Sylvere, Marjorie and Craig Bissinger, and Drs. Marc and Shari Pochapin. Great-grandmother of Brett, Shaun, Alexandra, Matthew, Jacqueline, Josh, Scott, Lindsey, Steven and David. Died peacefully on Sunday, March 29th. Funeral services at Temple Israel of New Rochelle, 1000 Pinebrook Boulevard, New Rochelle, at 12 noon on Wednesday, April 1st. In lieu of flowers donations can be sent to Temple Israel in her memory.
        POCHAPIN-Anne. Our hearts go out to our dear friend Rita Rosen on the passing of her beloved mother. Mrs. Pochapin was an inspiration to Rita, whose service to the community is exemplified by her role as a highly respected member of the Board and Honorary President of the National Women's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University. To Rita and to the entire family, we offer our deepest sympathy. Nancy Oelbaum, President, National Women's Division Judy R. Rosenberg, Chairwoman Executive Committee, National Women's Division
        POCHAPIN-Anne. Nanny Po-our beloved grandmother and greatgrandmother. You were our cherished treasure. How blessed we were to have had you for so longhow greedy we feel that it still wasn't long enough. We will miss everything about you especially your goodness, your ''qvelling'' and your sense of humor. We are so grateful that you were ours. Your boundless love lives on in each of us. Thank you for making us feel so special. Phyllis, Rod, Brett, Shaun, Wendy, Robert, Matt, Ali, JJ, Margie, Craig, Josh, Scott, Lindsey, Michael, Stephanie Mark, Shari, Steven, and David
        POCHAPIN-Anne. We grieve with our dear friend, Rita Rosen in the loss of her cherished mother, the family Matriarch. Truly a woman of valor and an inspiration who will be remembered with great love. To her daughter, Rita and her husband, Philip, her daughterin-law Sandy, her five grandchildren, Mark and Shari, Phyllis and Rod, Wendy and Robert, Michael and Stephanie, Margie and Craig, and her ten great-grandchildren our warmest and most heartfelt sympathies. Florence and Irving Rubenstein
        POCHAPIN-Anne. Temple Israel of New Rochelle records with sorrow the death of its cherished member and extends its heartfelt sympathy to the family. Amiel Wohl, Rabbi
      