
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. On March 23, 1998 of streptococcus A infection. Treasured husband of Joan, cherished father of Susan and Barry Stein, Billy and Carole and Clifford and Tammy, proud grandfather of Benjamin and Noa, Sophie and Michael and Amanda and Annie, devoted son of Ralph (and Edna), adored brother of Myra Waldman and brother-inlaw of Arthur and Susan Resnick, caring uncle of Steven and Bobby (and Amy) Scher and Ben Resnick, and beloved cousin of Marilyn Marber. Herb was a senior partner of Herrick, Feinstein LLP where he practiced law for fortythree years. Herb assisted many organizations with his time, abilities and resources. He served as a member of the board of directors of ALYN Hospital for Handicapped Children in Israel, as Chairman of the Greater New York Campaign Cabinet of UJA/Federation, as Chairman of the North Shore Long Island UJA/Federation Campaign Cabinet, and as Head of the UJA Long Island Country Club Mission Program. Herb was also a board member of The Daniel Heumann Fund for Spinal Cord Research, was Chairman of the Glen Oaks Country Club Charity Committee and a board member of the Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity. At Syracuse University, Herb was selected as the MVP of its lacrosse team and as All American goalie in soccer. The funeral service will be on Wednesday, March 25, 1998, 10:00 AM at Riverside, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in Herb's memory may be made to ALYN Hospital for Handicapped Children in Israel, 19 West 44th Street, New York, NY 10036.
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. The Herrick, Feinstein Family is suffering and grieving deeply over the most untimely loss of our ''golden boy,'' our ''go to guy,'' our senior partner. Herb's boyish good looks and athletic prowess, his brilliant and incisive intellect, his lifelong practice of menschlichkeit and devotion to charitable activities on behalf of so many worthy causes will be sorely missed by us, his law firm, by each of the members of the ''one for all, all for one'' Mendelson/Scher Family of which he was the kindly patriarch and by the hundreds of people who consider Herb and his love partner for life, darling Joan, as good friends. Herb taught others about living by the golden rule, about ethics and honesty, about the importance of family and friendship and other values all good people cherish, not by talking, but by his actions and the manner in which he conducted his personal and professional affairs day in and day out. The minions of lawyers and clients he worked with over the last 43 years, not only those in our law firm but also the men and women who sat on the other side of the table, could see in Herb a lawyer who immediately could digest and understand the highly complex issues and quickly devise creative and practical solutions. Herb's talents were prodigious-a resourceful and fertile brain, deep expertise in his specialty, a masterful negotiator, scrupulously honest and fair, all blended in with such a winning personality. After graduating as an All American goalie on the Syracuse University soccer team, Herb became an editor of the Syracuse Law Review. That dynamic combination of mind and body combined with his goodness, sweetness and great sense of humor explains Herb's star quality. We will adore and respect Herb's memory always. Herrick, Feinstein LLP
        MENDELSON-Herbert. The Board of Trustees and Members of The Eta Chapter of Sigma Alpha Mu Foundation, join with the undergraduate and graduate fratres of Eta, in mourning the loss of our fellow Trustee Fra Herbert Mendelson, initiated into the Fraternity in 1948, and a member of the Class of 1951 at Syracuse University. He was an active and contributing undergraduate, bringing to the life of the Fraternity a spirit of brotherhood and compassion for his Eta brothers, that carried over into his later life in law school, and the business and philanthropic worlds. He will be remembered for his continued willingness to join in the good works of the Fraternity, and the taking of pride in being an integral part of efforts over the years to bring honor and prestige to himself and his fratres by his exemplary attitude in these pursuits. To his wife Joan and their family we extend our deepest condolences, and to his father, Fra Ralph Mendelson, and his son, Fra Clifford Mendelson, we join in their deep sense of loss of an esteemed fraternity brother of Eta, and alumnus of Syracuse University. Marshall M. Gelfand, Chairman, Board of Trustees Leonard Rubin, Chairman Emeritus, Board of Trustees
        MENDELSON-Herbert. My first friend, my friend for life. It is impossible for me to accept your untimely death. You were always there for my needs. What pleasure and joy you took in my successes. What wisdom and support you gave me when my life was not so kind. Was there anyone smarter with advice and direction about life? In 40 years of friendship there was not a single harsh thought between us. I am going to miss the dialogue we had; our golf games, the banter, the drinks we shared and the never ending shtick between us. Herbie, I am going to miss you very much. To Joanie and your family, my love and my thoughts are with you. Don Zacharia Christina Zacharia
        MENDELSON-Herbert. The Heumann Family and the entire Board of Trustees of the Daniel Heumann Fund for Spinal Cord Research, Inc. mourn the loss of one of its founders, benefactors, and trustees. Herbert will long be remembered for his dedication, thoughtfulness, and generosity to the cause of finding a cure for paralysis due to spinal cord injury. Our sincere condolences to his parents, Ralph and Edna Mendelson, to his dear wife Joan, his sister Myra Waldman, his children Susan Stein, William Mendelson, Clifford Mendelson and their families. Madeline and Daniel Heumann Carl Frischling, President
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. It is with the deepest sorrow that our family mourns the passing of our beloved father, father-in-law and Pop-Pop. He was a unique man. His devotion to us was unwavering as was his love. His good judgment and guidance helped us to make our major life decisions with confidence. He was a great champion throughout life, as an athlete, as a friend and as a total ''mensch.'' He fought the brave battle to the end. We love you Pop-Pop and we will always cherish the legacy of love you left us. Susan & Barry Stein, Ben & Noa Billy & Carole, Sophie & Michael Cliff & Tammy, Amanda & Annie
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. It is with tears and profound sadness that we mark the passing of our esteemed friend. You touched our lives significantly and the emptiness that you left can not be filled. To Joan, his beloved wife and his children Susan (Barry), William (Carole) and Clifford (Tammy). We extend deepest sympathy. We thank God that Herb lived to enjoy his grandchildren. Our hearts also go out to Myra, his dear sister and Ralph, Herbert's dad. The world will be somewhat diminished without him. Rest in loving peace. Robert and Andrea Weiss
        MENDELSON-Herbert. The entire Epstein family mourns the death of our beloved friend. His passing leaves a void in our lives that cannot be filled. His humor, compassion, generosity and kindness will be greatly missed by all of us. Our deepest sympathy to all of the Mendelson family. Goodbye dear friend, rest in peace. Jane and Raymond Epstein Christy and Johnny Sheehan Kevin Epstein and Sherry Skobac
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. We will miss you and your good-natured, caring heart. To Mrs. Mendelson, Susan, Billy, Cliff and Mr. Ralph Mendelson, we extend our sincere sympathy. May you find some comfort in knowing ''HLM'' was highly respected and well-loved by all the support staff at H, F. Rozalia, Julius, Christy, Ilana, Bea & Rose
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. March 23, 1998. The Board of Governors and the members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their esteemed member and past member of the Board of Governors and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his wife Joan and his family. Board of Governors Richard A. Horowitz, President
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. My beloved husband, my love for you was and will always be the most profound truth in my life. Your confidence and love for me gives my courage. ''Did you ever know that you're my hero, everything I'd like to be. I can fly higher than an eagle, cause you are the wind beneath my wings.'' Joansie
        MENDELSON-Herbert. Congregation Orach Chaim records with sorrow the passing of the father of our devoted member Susan Mendelson Stein and expresses condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Michael D. Shmidman, Rabbi Wolf Scheck, President
        MENDELSON-Herbert. The employees of CB Commercial Real Estate Group in the Washington, DC area record with deep sorrow the passing of the father of our colleague Clifford Mendelson. We extend our deepest sympathy to Cliff and his family. Jay Olshonsky, Managing Officer
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. We are profoundly saddened by the loss of our friend and counselor, Herbert Mendelson. To his loving family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. He will be missed always. Richard Zirinsky, Sr. Richard Zirinsky, Jr.
        MENDELSON-Herbert. A great golfer, a great friend, a great sense of humor. We'll miss you and think of you often especially when somebody is short on a 5' putt, a full Mendel. Our love to Joanie and the children. Susan and Sandi, Bob and Harvey
        MENDELSON - Herbert. Dear Joan and family, it is a great loss to all of us who truly loved Herbert to have him taken from us so unexpectedly. We will miss his good nature, kindness and friendship. Rose and Alvin Gindel
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. Friend, lawyer and man of principle and character. We will miss you. Our deepest condolences to Joan, Susan and Barry, Billy and Carole and Clifford and Tami. N. Richard and Carol Kalikow
        MENDELSON-Herbert. A Dear Old Friend, many great memories of time spent together. Will miss you. Marty Friedman
        MENDELSON-Herbert. Always there when you needed him. A special guy. A special friend. We will miss him. Leni and Harold Alberts.
        MENDELSON-Herbert. Deepest sympathies to the family of our dear friend Herbert Mendelson. We will all miss him greatly. Marilyn and Benjamin Ossman
        MENDELSON-Herbert. The best brother in the world. You were always there for me. I will never forget you. Love, Myra
      