
        MENDELSON-Herbert. Thanks for the integral part you played in our success. For 38 years you were always there to guide us. Without you, who knows where we would have been. Gould Investors LP
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. On March 23, 1998 of streptococcus A infection. Treasured husband of Joan, cherished father of Susan and Barry Stein, Billy and Carole and Clifford and Tammy, proud grandfather of Benjamin and Noa, Sophie and Michael and Amanda and Annie, devoted son of Ralph (and Edna), adored brother of Myra Waldman and brother-inlaw of Arthur and Susan Resnick, caring uncle of Steven and Bobby (and Amy) Scher and Ben Resnick, and beloved cousin of Marilyn Marber. Herb was a senior partner of Herrick, Feinstein LLP where he practiced law for fortythree years. Herb assisted many organizations with his time, abilities and resources. He served as a member of the board of directors of ALYN Hospital for Handicapped Children in Israel, as Chairman of the Greater New York Campaign Cabinet of UJA/Federation, as Chairman of the North Shore Long Island UJA/Federation Campaign Cabinet, and as Head of the UJA Long Island Country Club Mission Program. Herb was also a board member of The Daniel Heumann Fund for Spinal Cord Research, was Chairman of the Glen Oaks Country Club Charity Committee and a board member of the Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity. At Syracuse University, Herb was selected as the MVP of its lacrosse team and as All American goalie in soccer. The funeral service will be on Wednesday, March 25, 1998, 10:00 AM at Riverside, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in Herb's memory may be made to ALYN Hospital for Handicapped Children in Israel, 19 West 44th Street, New York, NY 10036.
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. The Herrick, Feinstein Family is suffering and grieving deeply over the most untimely loss of our ''golden boy,'' our ''go to guy,'' our senior partner. Herb's boyish good looks and athletic prowess, his brilliant and incisive intellect, his lifelong practice of menschlichkeit and devotion to charitable activities on behalf of so many worthy causes will be sorely missed by us, his law firm, by each of the members of the ''one for all, all for one'' Mendelson/Scher Family of which he was the kindly patriarch and by the hundreds of people who consider Herb and his love partner for life, darling Joan, as good friends. Herb taught others about living by the golden rule, about ethics and honesty, about the importance of family and friendship and other values all good people cherish, not by talking, but by his actions and the manner in which he conducted his personal and professional affairs day in and day out. The minions of lawyers and clients he worked with over the last 43 years, not only those in our law firm but also the men and women who sat on the other side of the table, could see in Herb a lawyer who immediately could digest and understand the highly complex issues and quickly devise creative and practical solutions. Herb's talents were prodigious-a resourceful and fertile brain, deep expertise in his specialty, a masterful negotiator, scrupulously honest and fair, all blended in with such a winning personality. After graduating as an All American goalie on the Syracuse University soccer team, Herb became an editor of the Syracuse Law Review. That dynamic combination of mind and body combined with his goodness, sweetness and great sense of humor explains Herb's star quality. We will adore and respect Herb's memory always. Herrick, Feinstein LLP
        MENDELSON-Herbert. The Officers and Board of UJA-Federation of New York join members of the Long Island Cabinet in expressing their sorrow at the passing of a kind friend and major supporter. Mr. Mendelson was a chair of the Long Island North Shore Cabinet and was the founder and organizer of the Long Island Country Club Missions program. He was an honoree at the Long Island Inaugural Dinner, and was active for many years in our New York Lawyers Division. We extend our sincere sympathies to his father, Ralph; his wife, Joan; his children, William and Carole, Susan and Barry, and Clifford and Tammy; and to his grandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Martin Rosenman, Chair, L.I. Cabinet Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        MENDELSON-Herbert. The National Board of the ALYN Hospital for Handicapped Children mourns the passing of our devoted, faithful, and beloved member, Herbert Mendelson, husband of Joan, our esteemed Executive Director. The memory of Herbert's devotion to the children of ALYN will always live with us. Herbert was an inspiration to us all. We greatly appreciated his counsel and guidance. We shall miss him and never forget him. Our deepest condolences to his wife Joan, his parents Ralph and Edna, his beloved children Susan and Barry, Billy and Carole, Clifford and Tammy, and adored grandchildren; his sister Myra Waldman and entire family. Simone P. Blum, Chairman of the Board Minnette Halpern Brown Honorary President
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. It is with the deepest sorrow that our family mourns the passing of our beloved father, father-in-law and Pop-Pop. He was a unique man. His devotion to us was unwavering as was his love. His good judgment and guidance helped us to make our major life decisions with confidence. He was a great champion throughout life, as an athlete, as a friend and as a total ''mensch.'' He fought the brave battle to the end. We love you Pop-Pop and we will always cherish the legacy of love you left us. Susan & Barry Stein, Ben & Noa Billy & Carole, Sophie & Michael Cliff & Tammy, Amanda & Annie
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. It is with tears and profound sadness that we mark the passing of our esteemed friend. You touched our lives significantly and the emptiness that you left can not be filled. To Joan, his beloved wife and his children Susan (Barry), William (Carol) and Clifford (Tami). We extend deepest sympathy. We thank God that Herb lived to enjoy his grandchildren. Our hearts also go out to Myra, his dear sister and Ralph, Herbert's Dad. The world will be somewhat diminished without him. Rest in loving peace. Robert and Andrea Weiss
        MENDELSON-Herbert. The entire Alyn Young Leadership Board deeply mourns the loss of Herb, beloved husband of our adored and fearless leader Joan. We, and all of the children of the Alyn Hospital in Jerusalem, benefitted from his kindness, generosity and wisdom. Our hearts go out to Joan, his loving sister, Myra, his parents, Ralph and Edna, and to all of his devoted children and cherished grandchildren. Marilyn Ostro, Hon. Chairman Laura Anreder, Chairman Scott Ostro, President
        MENDELSON-Herbert. The Directors and Officers of the former Bank of Great Neck mourn the passing of our good friend and director. His wise counsel and support were always greatly valued. Our condolences to Joan and the entire family. Martin Lifton Robert Fromer Paul Settelmeyer
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. My beloved husband, my love for you was and will always be the most profound truth in my life. Your confidence and love for me gives my courage. ''Did you ever know that you're my hero, everything I'd like to be. I can fly higher than an eagle, cause you are the wind beneath my wings.'' Joansie
        MENDELSON-Herbert. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, its Sisterhood and Couples Club mourn the passing of the beloved father of their devoted member, Susan Stein, and extend heartfelt condolences to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Fred Distenfeld, President
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. The Board of Governors and Members of the Boca Rio Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Mr. Herbert L. Mendelson, beloved husband of Joan. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Boca Rio Golf Club Norman Ricken, President
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. Our friendship started with four years of living together in college and endured for over fifty years. A special relationship that cannot be replaced. Robert Fischer
        MENDELSON-Herbert. We will miss our dear friend with whom we shared so much. You will always be in our hearts. Sincerest sympathy to Joan and family. Ruth and Nat
        MENDELSON-Herbert.Good bye, Friend. Without you, there will always be an unfillable void in our lives. We will miss you so. Helaine and Fred
        MENDELSON-Herbert. Goodbye old friend, you will be greatly missed. To the Mendelson family, our hearts are with you. The Maharam family
        MENDELSON-Herbert. The best brother in the world. You were always there for me. I will never forget you. Love, Myra
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. To a great philanthropist and a great lawyer and a great friend. From Bobbi and Mel Weiss
      