
        RYSANEK-Leonie. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of one of our most highly-revered and deeply-loved artists, Leonie Rysanek. A thrilling and moving performer, she seared her roles into our memories with her glorious, gleaming soprano and heartstopping dramatic intensity. From her triumphant debut as Lady Macbeth in 1959 when she overcame the Herculean odds of substituting for Maria Callas, she gained the respect and adoration of the public and her colleagues alike. Standing ovations were a well-deserved commonplace at her performances. At the Met she was the first artist to sing the roles of Lady Macbeth in Verdi's ''Macbeth,'' Abigaille in Verdi's ''Nabucco,'' Ariadne in Strauss's ''Ariadne auf Naxos,'' the Empress in Strauss's ''Die Frau ohne Schatten,'' and Kabanicha in Janacek's ''Katya Kabanova.'' She had a special affinity for the operas of Wagner and Strauss, and her Senta, Sieglinde, Marschallin, Elisabeth, Chrysothemis, Elsa, Salome, Kundry, Ortrud, and Klytaemnestra were magnificent protrayals. In all she sang 299 performances of 24 roles over a period of 31 seasons at the Met. She sang in 12 new production premieres, including Leonore in the Beethoven Bicentennial year production of ''Fidelio.'' Her farewell performance here was just over two years ago, as the Countess in ''The Queen of Spades,'' making her Met career an amazing 37 years long. In addition to the immense respect her artistic achievements demanded, Leonie was much loved by her colleagues and company members at the Met. Her professionalism and hard work were total, and her easy smile, winning sense of humor, and open-hearted warmth made her every engagement here a delightful occasion. Her death has struck an unexpected and severe blow to this company's heart. We offer our sincerest condolences to her husband, Elu, who is also a great friend of many of our company, and to all her family. Joseph Volpe General Manager James Levine Artistic Director
        RYSANEK-Leonie. The Board of Directors of The Richard Tucker Music Foundation express their deepest regrets on the passing of Metropolitan Opera soprano, Leonie Rysanek. The Tucker Foundation most fondly remembers her as the guest of honor for the 1997 Richard Tucker Music Foundaton Opera Gala, as well as her numerous performances with tenor Richard Tucker, which millions have enjoyed around the world. The Foundation deeply mourns the loss of so great an artist. Barry Tucker, President Jeffrey S. Tabak, Chairman
        RYSANEK-Leonie. The George London Foundation for Singers mourns the passing of Leonie Rysanek, beloved colleague of George London and dear friend of the Foundation. The world was enriched by her extraordinary artistry and generous spirit. We will miss her. Nora London, President
      