
        BREINDEL-Eric. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Eric Breindel: brilliant commentator on current events, passionate attorney, renowned correspondent, and a charismatic champion of Jewish causes. His dedication to those who needed help was as passionate as his devotion to communal service. He served with distinction in our Entertainment, Media & Communications Division, most recently as a major leader of the Humanitarian of the Year Award Dinner honoring Rupert Murdoch. To his parents Sonia and Dr. Joseph Breindel; to his sister, Dr. Monique Breindel; to his entire family; and the world of friends who will miss his caring voice, we extend our deepest sympathies. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Edward Bleier/Marty Pompadur, Co-Chairs, Entertainment, Media & Communications Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        BREINDEL-Eric. The America-Israel Friendship League mourns the tragic loss of Eric Breindel, a member of our Board of Directors and Executive Committee. His death deprives our country, our community, the State of Israel and the Jewish people of a noble force and clear voice. Above all, we will miss his friendship, his warmth, his true concern for others and his fierce determination to see that the right thing is done, or at least said. Mortimer B. Zuckerman President Kenneth J. Bialkin Chairman of the Board
        BREINDEL-Eric. The International Network of Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors mourns the loss of our beloved friend. May his dear parents, Dr. Joseph and Sonia Breindel, sister Monique and family find comfort in Eric's devotion to Israel and the Jewish people, and his commitment to justice and remembrance. Menachem and Jean Rosensaft Rositta Koenigsberg, Howard Butnick, Joyce Levine BREINDEL-Eric. With a broken heart and soul, we cry for Eric. Eric Breindel was a gift to the world, to his people and his friends. We are bereaved. To Joseph, Sonia, Monique, Jonathan and the girls, our hearts go out to you. With all our love, Malka, Mannes, Ghita and Tirzah
        BREINDEL-Eric M. We'll love and miss you. Peter, Mary, Nicholas, Kathryn Kalikow
      