
        COHEN-Joyce Arnoff. Beloved wife of Murray; devoted mother to Holly, Tom and Amy; loving mother-in-law to Richard Osman and Elisa Singer; adored grandmother to Sarah, Eric, Jessie and Eli. Died peacefully on March 18, 1998 after a long and valiant fight from a brain tumor. Joyce dedicated her life to Tzedakah and helping others. She served on numerous boards including The Jewish Theological Seminary, The United Jewish Appeal, Congregation Or Zarua, The National C.J.F. Woman's Division and The National Foundation for Jewish Culture. Throughout her life she demonstrated incredible strength, generosity, courage and love for all who knew her. Her devotion to the State of Israel, Jewish history and Jewish tradition guided her in her effort to spread joy, compassion and understanding. Her thoughts were constantly about helping others and she was led by her motto ''I cared and so I tried.'' She will always be remembered by her kind and thoughtful deeds to others, her great humor and grace and her beautiful smile. Funeral services will be held 10 A.M. Friday, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 St and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to The Jewish Theological Seminary.
        COHEN-Joyce Arnoff. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York deeply mourn the passing of Joyce Arnoff Cohen, leading philanthropist and beloved Jewish communal leader. At UJA-Federation, she earned wide admiration for years of compassionate service and extraordinary dedication, where her numerous posts included: member of the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors, and chair of the Jewish Agency Committee of the Overseas Affairs Division. As a child of active Zionist parents, she developed a passionate attachment to Israel, and devoted her life to helping its people. Her affiliations with many Jewish organizations nationwide made her a true role model for the community. She was in every sense, an eseth chayil. Our heartfelt condolences go to her husband, Murray, a longtime UJA-Federation supporter; her children, Hollis, Thomas, and Amy; her son-in-law, Richard; her daughter-in-law, Elisa; her grandchildren; and the entire family. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Susan K. Stern, Vice Chair, Campaign and Chair, Women's Campaign Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        COHEN-Joyce Arnoff. The Jewish Theological Seminary family mourns the passing of board member, Joyce Arnoff Cohen, a passionate Conservative Jew who dedicated her life to the Jewish community. Her peerless commitment to the seminary was evident in the energy, enthusiasm and countless hours she devoted to its well-being and the leadership roles she assumed. Mrs. Cohen turned her professional background in public relations and her love of Judaism to the advantage of the many other organizations that she served with distinction including Congregation Or Zarua, UJA-Federation of Greater New York, The Council of Jewish Federations, United Israel Appeal and Park Avenue Synagogue. She is survived by her husband, Murray, her three children and four grandchildren. May her memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, chancellor Gershon Kekst, board chairman
        COHEN-Joyce. It is with deep sorrow that the Board of Directors and the shareholders at 8 East 83rd Street record the passing of a wonderful and courageous neighbor whose warmth and friendly smile will be remembered and missed. Our condolences to Murray and the family. Arthur Ascher, President
      