
        HAAR-George A. On March 25, 1998, of Cliffside Park and West End, NJ, formerly of Fairlawn, NJ, of an intracerebral hemorrhage. Adored husband of Arline (nee Goldberg), loving and devoted father of Geoffrey and Jane, Robert and Beth, Gary and Natalie, and Marc (deceased). Cherished granfather of Alison, Joshua, Jonathan, Jamie, Justin, Adam, and Marc, beloved brother of Frances Yeston and Murray Haar. George was CEO of JH Haar & Sons, of Kearny, NJ. George was a member of The Board of Overseers of the Rabbinical School of The Jewish Theological Seminary, member of the Chancellors Counsel of The Jewish Theological Seminary, member of the Board of Directors of The Fort Lee Jewish Center, Co-Chairman of Religious Affairs Committee of The Fort Lee Jewish Center, Past President of The Fairlawn Jewish Center, Past Present of The Mens Progress Clus, Past Master of Beth-El Masonic Lodge, member of The Fort Lee Jewish Center, Fairlawn Jewish Center, Temple Beth-El, Oakhurst, NJ. He endowed many scholarships for Camp Ramah in the Berkshires. He was a major contributor to the Gerard Berman Day School. He supported The Solomon Schecter Day School in Bergen County, The Founders Circle of Hadassah, endowed the Marc Steven Haar Retreat at The Rabbinical & Cantoral School of The Jewish Theological Seminary, he was a member of The Board of Directors of The Federation of North Jersey to The Jewish Museum. Funeral service will be Thursday, March 26th at 12 noon at The Fairlawn Jewish Center, 1010 Norman Avenue, Fairlawn. Contributions in George's memory may be made to The Marc Steven Haar Foundation, 849 Newark Turnpike, P.O. Box 524, Kearny, New Jersey 07032.
        HAAR-George. The Fair lawn Jewish Center deeply mourns the sudden passing of its Trustee and Past President, loyal and generous benefactor and ''Maftir'' chanter par excellence. We extend warmest condolences to his beloved wife Arline; children Geoffrey and Jane, Dr. Robert and Beth, Gary and Natalie, the late Marc Steven; and his grandchildren Allyson, Adam, Jamie, Justin, Joshua, Jonathan, and Marc. He is also survived by a brother, Murray, sisterin-law Shirley, sister Fran, and beloved nephews and nieces Neil, Maury, Matthew, Lynn and Diane. Services will be held at the Fair Lawn Jewish Center, 10-10 Norma Avenue, Fair Lawn, New Jersey, on Thursday, March 26, at 12:00 Noon. May the Almighty comfort the bereaved among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Bert Wertheim, President Dr. Henry Glazer, Rabbi Meir D'vir, Cantor Allan H. Glazerman, Executive Director
        HAAR-George. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the passing of George Haar, a member of the JTS Rabbinical School board of overseers. His spirit and generosity were reflected in his support of the Seminary, the Conservative Movement and the Jewish community. He and his wife, Arline, endowed of the annual JTS kallah in memory of their son, Marc Steven. A model Conservative Jew who loved to sing and lead synagogue services, he was a trustee and past president of the Fair Lawn Jewish Center. He is survived by his wife, three sons and seven grandchildren. May his memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, chancellor Gershon Kekst, board chairman
      