
        MENDELSON-Herbert. My first friend, my friend for life. It is impossible for me to accept your untimely death. You were always there for my needs. What pleasure and joy you took in my successes. What wisdom and support you gave me when my life was not so kind. Was there anyone smarter with advice and direction about life? In 40 years of friendship there was not a single harsh thought between us. I am going to miss the dialogue we had; our golf games, the banter, the drinks we shared and the never ending shtick between us. Herbie, I am going to miss you very much. To Joanie and your family, my love and my thoughts are with you. Don Zacharia Christina Zacharia
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. We are filled with such sadness at the loss of our friend who was a man of great warmth, intelligence and humor. To know Herb and Joan was to become part of their wonderful, extended family. Our love and deepest sympathy to Joan, Susan and Barry, Billy and Carole, Clifford and Tammy and Myra. We will miss you. Marjorie and Arnold Goldbaum Julie and Jay, Stacey and Andrew
        MENDELSON-Herbert. The entire Epstein family mourns the death of our beloved friend. His passing leaves a void in our lives that cannot be filled. His humor, compassion, generosity and kindness will be greatly missed by all of us. Our deepest sympathy to all of the Mendelson family. Goodbye dear friend, rest in peace. Jane and Raymond Epstein Christy and Johnny Sheehan Kevin Epstein and Sherry Skobac
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Herbert Mendelson, devoted law partner of our dedicated Trustee and Counsel, HarveyFeuerstein. Sincere condolences to the bereaved family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, Pres. Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        MENDELSON - Herbert. The Kwiat family wishes to express to the Mendelson family our profound sorrow on the passing of a very good friend. Shirley and David Rita and Sheldon Fern and Lowell
        MENDELSON-Herbert L. Friend, lawyer and man of principle and character. We will miss you. Our deepest condolences to Joan, Susan and Barry, Billy and Carole and Clifford and Tami. N. Richard and Carol Kalikow
      