
        TORCZYNER-Harry. Order of Leopold, Belgium, in his 88th year, son of the late Numa and Rachel Torczyner, precious husband of Marcelle Siva, adored father of Evelyn Musher Shechter and Denise Wiseman, respected fatherin-law of Samuel Shechter and Sam Wiseman, doting grandfather of Joshua and Shira Musher, Naomi Shechter, Rafi Musher, and Danielle Diller, proud great grandfather of Shoshana Rachel and Jeremy Max Musher, loving brother of Jacques and Berthe Torczyner. Service Sunday 2PM, at the ''Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New York.
        TORCZYNER-Harry. The Board of Directors and Staff of The American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem, mourn the death of Harry Torczyner, Founder and long-time supporter. He was a free spirit, an international lawyer, author, connoisseur, collector and scholar. We will miss him deeply and send heartfelt condolences to his wife Marcelle, his daughters Evie Musher Shechter and Denise Wiseman and the entire family. Teddy Kollek, President, I.M. James Snyder, Anne and Jerome Fisher Director, I.M. Judy Steinhardt, President, AFIM
        TORCZYNER-Harry. The Zionist Organization of America mourns the passing of our esteemed Honorary Vice-President Harry Torczyner, beloved brother of our Honorary President, Jacques Torczyner. He served the cause of Israel and Zionism with distinction and he will be sorely missed. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family in their bereavement. May they find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Morton A. Klein, National President
        TORCZYNER-Harry. The Consulate General of Israel in New York wishes to extend our most heartfelt condolences to Evelyn Musher Schecter, trusted and valued colleague and friend for 25 years, on the loss of her beloved father, Harry Torczyner. May his memory be a blessing.
        TORCZYNER-Harry. Esteemed friend, advisor and counselor for over 50 years. Our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Naftali Gad, President Diamond Trade and Precious Stone Association
      