
        ABZUG-Bella. Bella's sister Helene Alexander, her daughters Eve and Liz Abzug and other family members deeply appreciate the outpouring of love in response to our great loss. A service will be held today, April 2, noon for family and close friends at the Riverside Chapel, 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Date & place of a public memorial service will be announced later. For Information please call: WEDO, 212-973-0325
        ABZUG-Bella. The Officers of 1199 National Health & Human Service Employees Union SEIU/ AFL-CIO mourn the death of Bella Abzug, a tireless fighter for social justice, equal rights and a world at peace. She marched with us on our picket lines, addressed our meetings and always found time to discuss our problems. 1199 and the labor movement have lost a courageous leader, who fought for the interests of all Americans. Dennis Rivera, President Phyllis Harris, Secy-Tres Moe Foner, Bread & Roses Project
        ABZUG-Bella. The Officers and Trustees of The Hunter College Foundation mourn the death of Hunter alumna Bella Abzug and wish to express special gratitude for her dedication to human dignity, justice and achievement, and the sense of fairness that allowed her to keep Hunter College an important part of her very committed life. We send sincere condolences to her daughters and to all her family. Her voice will be missed. Allan H. Kurtzman, Chair Floria V. Lasky, Co-Chair The Hunter College Foundation
        ABZUG-Bella. Congregation Beth Simchat Torah, New York City's gay and lesbian synagogue mourns the loss of Bella-one of the giants of our generation. Chutzpadik, bold, visionary, Bella introduced in Congress in 1975 the first Federal legislation to extend civil rights to gays and lesbians. May her memory be for a blessing as we carry on her work. We extend condolences to her beloved daughters, Liz and Eve and their families. Rabbi Sharon Kleinbaum Yolanda Potasinski, President
        ABZUG-Bella. New York Women Strike For Peace is profoundly sadened by the death of its founding member, leader, and mentor Bella Abzug. A passionate and courageous anti-war activist, an opponent of nuclear testing, a fighter for justice and human rights, she leaves an indelible legacy in promoting women's empowerment and a healthy environment for generations to come. We extend condolences to the Abzug family. Celia Fink, Coordinator
        ABZUG-Bella. Goodbye dear friend and colleague for the last sixty years. From high school and college to the present we have worked together for peace, women's rights, economic and social justice and can proudly say that we have made a difference. Your courage and brilliance changed my life and the lives of women around the world. Our daughters and the new generation of activists honor your heritage. Mim Kelber
        ABZUG-Bella. The board, staff and members of the Empire State Pride Agenda mourn the death of Bella Abzug. In Congress, she introduced the first Gay/Lesbian Civil Rights Bill and was a tireless advocate of our rights and values her entire life. Our sympathies and thoughts go to Liz and Eve. Sue Cowell & Jeff Soref, Co-Chairs Matt Foreman, Executive Dir
        ABZUG-Bella. The Shalom Center remembers with love and admiration the chutzpadik, funny, loudmouthed New York Jewish broad who was the bravest, smartest, toughest progressive of our generation and who received its Brit Ha Dorot (Covenant of the Generations) Award for her work to prevent a nuclear holocaust.
        ABZUG-Bella. The first Jewish woman to be elected to Congress, she was a trailblazer whose legacy has inspired an entire generation of empowered Jewish women. Marlene E. Post, Nat'l President Hadassah, the Women's zionist Organization of America
        ABZUG-Bella. We will miss our mentor and friend, who strove throughout her life for peace and a just society, and who taught us that if you are on the side of right, there is always a way. Washington Congressional Staff and Friends
        ABZUG-Bella. Bella: Spiritual mother. You broke the ground we all walk on. We love you. Blanche Wiesen Cook, Clare M. Coss, Rhonda Copelon, Kathy Engel, Rosalind Petchesky, Vivian Stromberg
        ABZUG-Bella. Thank you for shouting into the Great Deafness with your whole heart and mind. Jan Crawford
        ABZUG-Bella. Bella: You opened the way. We feel your loss. Women's Caucus for Gender Justice in the Int'l Criminal Court
      