
        EDGELL-Douglas C. Brookside, NJ, died Friday in Atlanta, GA. Death was the result of a massive head injury. A second generation publishing executive, Doug Edgell was born in Greenwich, CT in 1951. His father Robert Edgell, a longtime publishing executive served as vice-chairman of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. Doug began his publishing career in 1973 and held sales and management positions with Ziff Davis, Conde Nast and Gordon Publications. In 1984, he started Edgell Communications with his wife and business partner Gabriele and he launched the first in a series of successful technology-based business magazines ''Automatic ID News''. In addition to serving as publisher, Doug became widely known and respected in the technology and business communities. Edgell Communications moved to its present sight in Randolph, NJ in 1991. It currently publishes seven magazines founded by the Edgells including ''RIS News'', ''Retail Systems Reseller'', ''Consumer Goods Manufacturer'', ''Hospitality Technology'', ''Data Capture Reseller'', ''Selling Christmas Decorations'', and ''Selling Halloween''. Doug was an avid sportsman and enjoyed spending weekends in the Adirondacks. Doug was an elite amateur waterskier, snowskier, snow mobiler and off-road enthusiast. He is survived by his immediate family of Gabriele, his wife, Katherine, 14, his daughter and Gregory, 10, his son. He is also survived by his mother Kathleen Edgell of Alexandria, VA and four sisters; Robin Davis of Hamilton, MA, Sarah Edgell of Denver, CO, Deborah Oberg also of Denver, CO and Jane Edgell of New York City. Doug is also survived by four nieces and three nephews. Visiting hours are 3-5 and 7-9 pm Tuesday at Tuttle Funeral Home. The funeral service will be Wednesday at 11 AM at Mendham Hills Chapel in Chester, New Jersey. In lieu of flowers the family suggest that donations be made to St. Barnabas Burn Foundation, 94 Short Hills Rd, Suite 101, Livingston, New Jersey 07039 or Residents Committee to Protect the Adirondacks, POB 27, North Creek, New York 12853.
      