
        WILLIAMS-Thomas Allison, 61, on April 25th, 1998, of a fatal heart attack while sailing off the coast of Rye, NY. Resident of Rye, NY, loving husband of Lammie, beloved father of Thomas A. Williams Jr, Laura Williams Jodice, J. Carter Williams, David D. Williams, and loving brother of Howard (Terry) H. Williams III. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Foundation for United Hospital, 406 Boston Post Road, Port Chester, NY 10573 or the Rye Free Reading Room, Boston Post Road, Rye, NY 10580. Services will be held on Wednesday, April 29, 10AM at the Rye Presbyterian Church on Boston Post Road, Rye, NY, and 3PM at American Yacht Club, Milton Point, Rye, New York. Mr. Williams was currently Commodore of the American Yacht Club, Chairman of the PGA Buick Classic, President of The Depository Trust Co, New York, NY, and past Chairman of Board of Directors of United Hospital Medical Center, Portchester, New York.
        WILLIAMS-Thomas A. The Board of Trustees and the Medical and Administrative staffs of United Hospital Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the loss of our esteemed friend and former Chairman of the Board, Thomas A. Williams. During Mr. Williams' many years of outstanding leadership, the Hospital benefitted greatly from his wise counsel, tireless efforts and selfless devotion. He received the Hospital's Medal of Excellence in honor of his ''generosity, stewardship and commitment.'' Since 1990 Mr. Williams served as General Chairman of the Buick Classic Golf Tournament which benefits 18 Metropolitan New York healthcare institutions. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Lammie, his four children and his brother. Keven W. Dahill President and CEO J. Michael Evans Chairman of the Board of Trustees
        WILLIAMS-Thomas A. The Board of Managers of United Hospital Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of Thomas Williams, husband of our Board member, Lammie. His superb leadership and extraordinary dedication set a wonderful example for all of us. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Lammie and his family. Anne Bschorr Chairman, Board of Managers United Hospital Medical Center
      