
        PAPAMARKOU - Alexander P. The Cycladic Art Foundation mourns the untimely passing of our esteemed Vice-Chairman, Aleco Papamarkou. We shall treasure and miss his wonderful and unchallenged uniqueness, his outstanding leadership, his genuine kindness, his unparalleled generosity and his unwavering friendship. Aleco's innate intelligence coupled with his boundless energy served as an inspiration to all who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathy to Aleco's sister Lisa and her husband Keith Jewell. Dolly Goulandris, Honorary Director Shelby White, Chairman Estelle Sotirhos, President Basil P. Goulandris, Treasurer John G. Coumantaros, Secretary
        PAPAMARKOU - Alexander. A Founder and strong supporter of our Board of Regents, he embodied commitment to quality, achievement, and philanthropy. He helped forged good relations between the Greek Orthodox Church and Christians of all denominations and was a staunch advocate of our work. This Cathedral has lost a valued friend. For the Trustees and Regents, The Very Reverend Harry H. Pritchett, Jr., Dean Cathedral of St. John the Divine
        PAPAMARKOU-Alexander. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation deeply mourns the loss of our devoted friend and generous benefactor and Advisory Board Member, Alecko. His inspiration and guidance is directly responsible for the Foundation's growing strength and influence. We will miss him terribly. Evelyn H. Lauder, President Saul Magram, Vice President Deborah Krulewitch, Secy.-Treas. Shaun Benet, Director
        PAPAMARKOU - Alexander (Alecko). 68 years old. Funeral Services at the Greek Orthodox Cathedral, 319 East 74th Street, New York City, Tuesday, April 28 at 11 AM. Contributions may be sent to Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Ave., NY, NY 10021, attention Dr. Paul Marks or Rockefeller University or the Central Park Conservancy or Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, attention Beverly Sills.
        PAPAMARKOU-Alex. We mourn the untimely death of a humanitarian who supported our work on behalf of religious freedom and human rights. Our sympathy to his sister Lisa. His memory will always be a blessing. Appeal of Conscience Foundation Rabbi Arthur Schneier, President Reverend Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. Dr. David H.C. Read, Vice Pres.
        PAPAMARKOU - Alecko. Nina Rao Cameron and Robert M. Gewald express their deep sorrow at the death of their beloved friend. He will live on earth in the goodness he performed. He walked with kings and never lost the common touch. We will miss him and never forget him.
      