
        TANG-GOODWIN-Hope Babette, M.D. on April 3, 1998. Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and Medical Director, The Women and Children Care Center at The Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Beloved wife of James Goodwin and loving mother to Gordon TY Goodwin; sister to Hamilton Tang and Hamburg Tang, Jr.; devoted daughter of Hamburg and Miranda Tang. Funeral Mass Tuesday, April 7, 10:30 A.M., St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84th St. In lieu of flowers the family requests that donations be made to: The Hope Tang Goodwin Foundation, 39 East 79th St., NYC, NY 10021.
        TANG-GOODWIN-Hope Babette, M.D. The members of the Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases express their profound sorrow at the untimely death of their much beloved, talented, and courageous colleague Hope Babette TangGoodwin, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Columbia University, College of Physicians & Surgeons. Dr. Tang-Goodwin was a dedicated physician, devoted to the care of children and infants with HIV infection, patients sorely in need of her many talents. Her approach to medicine combined a boundless enthusiasm for her work, intellectual rigor and deep compassion for her patients. In the laboratory as well as in the clinic she demanded the highest standards for herself as well as for others. We miss her cheerful elegance but are thankful that we had the opportunity to know and love her, and we will always remember her. Our deepest sympathies go out to her family: to her adoring husband James Goodwin, to her cherished son Gordon and to her parents and brothers.
        TANG-GOODWIN-Hope Babette, M.D. The staff of the Women and Children Care Center at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center is devastated at the loss of our dear colleague, Babette Tang-Goodwin. She was a dedicated, compassionate and generous physician, always full of optimism and hope. She was devoted to her own son, Gordon, as she was to the many children she cared for at this Center and Babies Hospital. The grace and apparent effortlessness of her intellectual contribution, her humility and her devotion to her work will remain as an inspiration to us all. It was our privilege to have known Babette, we will miss her greatly. Our thoughts and prayers are with her husband Jim, her son Gordon and the entire family.
        TANG-GOODWIN-Hope Babette. We are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of our neighbor and friend Hope Babette Tang-Goodwin. We will miss her warmth and charm. Our thoughts are with Jim, Gordon and all her family at this most difficult time. The Board of Directors 39 East 79th Street
      