
        SILVERSTEIN-Rabbi Israel I. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary extend heartfelt condolences to Sadie Silverstein, beloved wife of our eminent RIETS trustee, and their children, Lorraine (and Dr. Leonard) Dauber, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren on the passing of a highly esteemed colleague and leader in Jewish education at all levels. Rabbi Silverstein, a YU Guardian with his wife, was a stalwart supporter of his alma mater. He was a distinguished early rabbinic alumnus who, even as a businessman, devoted his life to community service. His hessed as a volunteer chaplain at St. Luke's Hospital, dedicated advocacy of Talmud Torah education, and pioneering work with Camp Morasha earned him the love and esteem of young and old alike. He and his wife established YU's Dr. Jerrold Silverstein Laboratory and RIETS' Dr. Jerrold Silverstein Memorial Scholarship Fund in memory of their beloved son. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Judah Feinerman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees
        SILVERSTEIN-Rabbi Israel. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of a beloved alumni parent and grandparent and great grandparent of a current student. Together with his devoted wife Sadie, he endowed the Dr. Jerrold Silverstein Advanced Placement Science Program in our Upper School. We extend heartfelt sympathy to the entire bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman Board of Trustees
        SILVERSTEIN-Rabbi Israel. The Directors and Staff of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York record with great sorrow the passing of long-time Board member and communal leader Rabbi Israel Silverstein. May the Silverstein family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Philip Schatten, President David Mann, Exec. Vice President Stephen A. Kramer, Chairman of the Board
        SILVERSTEIN-Rabbi Israel. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun mourns the passing of the past Chairman of the Manhattan Eruv Committee whose devotion to this cause made the Sabbath more delightful for many thousands of Jews in our community. We extend heartfelt sympathy to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Fred Distenfeld, President
      