
        MURRAY-Dr. Roger F. II, 86. Born in New York City, died on April 13, 1998 in Wolfeboro, New Hampshire. Husband of Agnes McDede Murray, Wolfeboro, N.H., father of Roger F. Murray III and his wife, Linda T. Murray, Wolfeboro, NH; grandfather of Jennifer A. Murray, Boston, MA., Deborah M. Murray and John W. Murray, both of Wolfeboro, NH; brother of Mary M. Westcote, Glen Ridge, N.J.; uncle of several nieces and nephews. Funeral services Apr. 20, 1998, 2:00PM, First Congregational Church, South Main St, Wolfeboro, NH. Burial to follow at Lakeview Cemetery, North Main Street, Wolfeboro, NH. Lord Funeral Home, Route 28, Wolfeboro, N.H. for info. Memorial donations to Lake Wentworth Foundation, PO Box 2235, Wolfeboro, N.H. 03894 or the Wolfeboro Area Children's Endowment Fund, 180 South Main St, Wolfeboro, New Hampshire 03894.
        MURRAY-Roger F. The Board of Trustees, Headmaster, Faculty, Staff, and the entire Collegiate School community mourn the loss of our Distinguished Alumnus and Life Trustee, Dr. Roger F. Murray 2nd'28. A dedicated educator who believed strongly in the importance of pre-college education, Dr. Murray provided leadership and meritorious service to the school for fifty years, serving on its Board of Trustees from 1949 until the present and as President of the Board from 1968-72. Dr. Murray's long stewardship of Collegiate was marked by both eloquence and warmth. His unwavering commitment to the traditional values of Collegiate School along with his clear view of the future served as guidance over many years to his colleagues on the Board and to Collegiate School. His encouragement of faculty enrichment and development will serve as a living legacy of his devotion to education. We shall miss him greatly and extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Agnes, his son, Roger F. Murray 3rd'64, and the entire Murray family. Jeffrey P. Klein '61, President of the Board of Trustees Jacob A. Dresden, Headmaster
        MURRAY-Roger F. It is with great sadness that the entire Columbia Business School community mourns the loss of our colleague and friend, Roger F. Murray. An extraordinary scholar, teacher and leader, his talents and enthusiasm for life broadened our minds and hearts. For over 40 years, he was a significant presence at the school, as associate dean, S. Sloan Colt Professor of Banking and Finance, and most recently, professor emeritus and distinguished lecturer. He was a tireless mentor for many students and faculty members who have attributed their successes to his guidance and teachings. As one of the great figures in the School's history, he shall be greatly missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Agnes, his son Roger F. Murray III and the entire family. Professor Meyer Feldberg, Dean Columbia Business School
      