
        HARE-Montgomery. Born August 21, 1911 in New York City. He died at age 87 on March 28, 1998, at his home in Cornwall, Connecticut, where he and his family have lived since 1940. Mr. Hare grew up in Saint James, Long Island, New York, and in Lenox, Massachusetts; and New York City. He graduated from Groton School, class of 1929 and Yale University, class of 1933.In 1938 he married Mary Potter Sturges. She died in 1990. In February of 1996 he married Alida White Lessard. Mr. Hare was also instrumental in many planning and zoning issues in Cornwall. He was an environmentalist long before the environment became an issue. For example, he collected DDT residue samples from the brooks in Cornwall in the 1950's as part of a study that led to restrictions on its use. His long life is best summarized by his love of the land. It kept him continuously involved in conservation groups. He was a founder of the Housatonic Valley Association, and served it as a director and president for many years. In his work with the Association, he was a leader in the preservation of many tracts of land along the Housatonic, including, for example, several miles of the river's undeveloped west bank and the adjoining ridge from Cornwall to Kent. During his lifetime, Mr. Hare was a reporter, playwright, producer, poet, and painter. He wrote and directed plays for the famous Barter Theatre in Virginia during its heyday in the late 40's. He was a conscientious objector at a time when very few men were. He was deeply involved in the community of Cornwall, serving for many as a very well remembered Sunday School teacher, Deacon, and director of the Christmas Pageant in the First Churchof Christ Congregational in Cornwall. Mr. Hare is survived by his wife, Alida Hare; his 4 children, Meredith Burke of Ipswich, Massachussetts, Patrick Hare of Cornwall, Connecticut, Robert Hare of Kingston, New York, and Constance Hare of Montpelier, Vermont. He also is survived by six stepdaughters, eight grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      