
        SILVERSTEIN-Rabbi Israel. On April 19, in his 89th year. Husband of Sadie, father of Lorraine S. Dauber and the late Dr. Jerrold Silverstein, grandfather of Paul Dauber, Jane D. Lewittes, and Daniel Dauber, great-grandfather of Joshua and Jack Lewittes, and brother of the late Max and Samuel Silverstein. A graduate of RIETS (Yeshiva University), a self made business man, communal leader, philanthropist, scholar and teacher at The Jewish Center, Chaplain at St. Luke's Hospital. Funeral at 9 AM, April 20, at The Jewish Center, 131 West 86th Street. Shiva at 140 Riverside Drive, Apt 12H.
        SILVERSTEIN-Rabbi Israel. We mourn the loss of one of our founding members and longterm President of the Metropolitan N.Y. Commission on Talmud Torah Education. His tireless efforts and leadership of the Commission and Camp Morasha saw it through its organizational and formative years. That leadership created an outstanding educational institution which has touched the lives of thousands of campers and staff. Thanks to him, our camp has become a model institution which others have emulated. We thank him for his longstanding commitment, loyalty, dedication and leadership of Camp Morasha for over three decades. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his dear and devoted wife Sadie and the entire Dauber and Silverstein families. Camp Morahsa, Inc. Martin Schwarzschild, President Rabbi Abraham Wahrhaftig Director Zvi Reich, Founding Director
        SILVERSTEIN-Rabbi Israel. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the longtime highly respected member of our Board of Trustees who taught us Torah and the meaning of dedication to family and community. We extend our condolences to his beloved wife Sadie, to his daughter and son-inlaw Lorraine and Dr. Leonard Dauber, to his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. May the entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood
        SILVERSTEIN - Rabbi Israel. Mohegan Park Jewish Center mourns the passing of our devoted senior member, beloved husband of Sadie; father of Lorraine Dauber, grandfather of Paul and Daniel Dauber and Jane Lewittes, and great-grandfather of Joshua and Jack Lewittes. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.
      