
        NEUMILLER-Thomas G. Professor of Theatre Arts at the State University at Stony Brook, died on April 22, 1998 at his residence in Stony Brook, NY. He was 61 years old, the cause of death was cancer. He was born January 5, 1937, to Harry J. Neumiller and Grace Gridley Meumiller in Peoria, Illinois where he attended Peoria High School. He received a B.A. degree from Knox College, Galesburg, Illinois, and an M.F.A. from the Yale Drama School where he studied stage direction. Upon graduation from college in 1959, he was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship and attended the Free University of West Berlin, Germany, where he studied theatre history. As an officer in U.S. Army Military Intelligence he was stationed in Stuttgart, Germany, where he was officer-in-charge of the Soviet Orientation Team which toured U.S. Army bases in Germany. He was discharged at the rank of captain. He taught theatre at Wheelock College, Boston, for four years. At SUNY Stony Brook he taught acting and directing and staged plays and operas for twenty-eight years before retiring in 1997 as Professor Emeritus. In affiliation with Stony Brook University he started the Stony Brook Summer Playhouse for which he served as Artistic Director for ten years. As a member of Actors' Equity Association he also worked in professional theatre. In the summer of 1966 he was a member of the Bayreuth Festival Master Classes, Bayreuth, Germany, where he studied opera production. He was a member of the American Institute for Verdi Studies, New York University. In 1997, the Tom Neumiller Opera Research Collection was established from material he donated to the S.B. University Libraries. He was a collector of posters, particularly performing arts posters; his collection will be housed at and exhibited by the Lakeview Museum in Peoria. Surviving are two brothers, Harry J. Neumiller, Jr. of Galesburg, Illinois and C. Richard (Dick) Neumiller of Peoria. Also surviving are five nieces and two nephews, one grand niece and two grand nephews. Cremation will be private with a memorial service held at the SUNY Stony Brook at a later date. Funeral O.B. Davis Funeral Homes, 4839 Nesconset Highway (Route 347) Port Jefferson Station, NY. Memorial gifts may be sent to Long Island Gay and Lesbian Youth, Inc. (LIGALY), 32 West Main Street, Bay Shore, New York 11706.
      