
        TANG-GOODWIN-Hope Babette, M.D. The Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and the Pediatric Service of Babies & Children's Hopsital offer heartfelt condolences to the family of Hope Babette Tang-Goodwin, M.D., an exemplary alumna of our pediatric training program, an outstanding young faculty member, dedicated clinician, cherished friend, and role model to house officers, students, and peers alike. Dr. Tang's formidable intellectual talents were recognized and molded during her undergraduate career at M.I.T. and medical training at Cornell University Medical School. We watched Babette mature as a pediatrician from her early days as an enthusiastic and hard working intern through her training and blossoming as an Infectious Diseases specialist. We will remember her for her long nights at the bedside caring for sick children, reassuring parents and patiently instructing house officers and students, all done with good cheer and in her own unmistakable style. We all admired her indomitable courage, perseverance and selfless devotion to those she loved. No task was too hard for Babette, no project too involved. Her brief years as a part of our community will be a cherished legacy. Though others may perform similar functions, she was a unique and irreplaceable individual and we shall miss her. John M. Driscoll, Jr., M.D. Reuben S. Carpentier, Professor Chairman, Dept. of Pediatrics Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons Director of Pediatric Service Babies & Children's Hospital
        TANG-GOODWIN-Hope Babette, M.D. on April 3, 1998. Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and Medical Director, The Women and Children Care Center at The Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Beloved wife of James Goodwin and loving mother to Gordon TY Goodwin; sister to Hamilton Tang and Hamburg Tang, Jr.; devoted daughter of Hamburg and Miranda Tang. Funeral Mass Tuesday, April 7, 10:30 A.M., St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84th St. In lieu of flowers the family requests that donations be made to: The Hope Tang Goodwin Foundation, 39 East 79th St., NYC, NY 10021.
      