
        BOYKO-Jeffrey A. Your direction, guidance, strength and inspiration formed our company. You were the builder and our leader. You have left a legacy of accomplishments. You will always be a large part of us-what we are and who we are. We will do our best without you. You will be missed. Our love and deepest sympathy to Leslie and Alexander. Staff, Silbo Industries
        BOYKO-Jeffrey A. You were our best friend, brother and partner. We have shared so much and done so much together. We mourn deeply your passing. We will continue to look to you for guidance. We will be there for Leslie and Alexander. We love you. It's all ok, Jeff. Rest easy. Eva, Howard, Ray, Jody, Lisa, Emily and Stephen
        BOYKO-Jeffrey A. You were more than our cousin-you were our closest friend. We shared everything together starting with our families, to golf, to business. You will always be there as our inspiration. Your strength and guidance will be our foundation. Leslie and Alex will always be part of our family. Carol, Alan, Kira, Todd, Karen and Kevin
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. The Horace Mann School community extends its sincere condolences to Mrs. Leslie Boyko and Alexander (6th Grade) upon the untimely death of Jeffrey Boyko, beloved husband and father. We mourn with you and your family in your loss. Dr. Eileen Mullady Head of School Karla Toledano, President HM Parents Association
        BOYKO-Jeffrey A. Our cousin, friend and business partner. Always there to listen and to provide unique suggestions. Great sense of humor and a man you could count on in difficult situations. Loving father to Alex and devoted husband to Leslie. Son of Rhoda and brother of Ken. Jeff, you will be with us forever. Karen, Mitch, Jeff, Diane
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. You are our best friend, confidant, advisor and mentor. We will never forget the special way you treated us as part of your family. You were always caring and thoughtful, unselfish and giving. Our prayers and love go to Leslie and Alexander. We will miss you forever. Sheldon and Maria Mona and Dan
        BOYKO-Jeffrey A. You were more than a brother. You helped us when we came to the United States and couldn't speak a word of English. We owe you everything for your help. Our love for you and your family is beyond words. We will miss you so much. Asako and Marchan Kono
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. The Board of Directors and members of The Gift of Life, Heart and Lung transplant support group, deeply mourn the passing of our Board Member and friend Jeffrey Boyko. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Leslie, son Alexander and his entire family.
        BOYKO-Jeffrey A. You were my special nephew and will be missed by all of us. My beloved Stellie has welcomed you into heaven with love and kisses. Uncle Harry
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. Your friendship knew no limits. Our deepest love to Leslie and Alex. You will always be a part of us. Jane, Michael, Elizabeth, Kathryn
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. A wonderful friend and partner. You will be deeply missed. Our love goes out to Leslie and Alexander. Louis Blumberg and Ary Freilich
      