
        JOHNSON-Cecil. A resident of Las Cruces, N.M. since 1995, died March 31 at the Good Samaritan Nursing Home, at the age of 96. Mr. Johnson, a Fellow of the Royal College of Engineering, was born in London, England, August 5th, 1901. Following his graduation from Dulwich College, he went to India as a nineteen year-old engineer in the employ of Babcock & Wilcox, Ltd. Fourteen years later, he was responsible for all the company's interests in Asia and was based in Shanghai, China where he numbered among his friends such personalities as Herbert Hoover, Wallace Simpson, and Two-Gun Cohen, a general in the Chinese Nationalist Army. Mr. Johnson was an accomplished pianist, raconteur, and polo-player, and an enthusiastic race-horse owner. He was also a man of conviction and daring who, before his internment in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp in Shanghai in 1942, managed to sabotage Babcock & Wilcox power plants to prevent their being used in the Japanese war effort. During his 3- 1/2 years in the Japanese camp he served as the elected representative of his fellow prisoners in all dealings with their captors. Following the Communist takeover in 1949, Mr. Johnson successfully negotiated the release of all B&W employees who were held hostage by the Communists. In 1958, Mr. Johnson and his wife, Marjorie, returned to England, where they lived until Mrs. Johnson's death in 1966. In 1983, Mr. Johnson joined his only child, Cecilia, in New York where he led a full and active life until 1993, when he suffered a stroke. Even then he continued to display the virtues of an Aristotelian gentleman -courtesy, magnanimity, and courage. He and his daughter moved to New Mexico in 1995. Mr. Johnson's death is deeply mourned by his daughter, Cecilia, and her husband, Alexis Bespaloff. His good will and joie de vivre will be missed by the friends he continued to make throughout his life. By his wishes, his remains were cremated. The date has not yet been set for a memorial service to be held in New York.
      