
        WILLIAMS-Thomas Allison, 61. On April 25, 1998, of a fatal heart attack while sailing off the coast of Rye, NY. Resident of Rye, NY, loving husband of Lammie, beloved father of Thomas A. Williams Jr, Laura Williams Jodice, J. Carter Williams, David D. Williams, and loving brother of Howard (Terry) H. Williams III. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Foundation for United Hospital, 406 Boston Post Road, Port Chester, NY 10573 or the Rye Free Reading Room, Boston Post Road, Rye, NY 10580. Services will be held on Wednesday, April 29, 10AM at the Rye Presbyterian Church on Boston Post Road, Rye, NY, and 3PM at American Yacht Club, Milton Point, Rye, New York. Mr. Williams was currently Commodore of the American Yacht Club, Chairman of the PGA Buick Classic, President of The Depository Trust Co, New York, NY, and past Chairman of Board of Directors of United Hospital Medical Center, Portchester, New York.
        WILLIAMS-Thomas Allison. The Officers, Trustees and Members of American Yacht Club are deeply saddened by the loss of our leader and very dear friend, Commodore Thomas A. Williams, who suffered a fatal heart attack while observing the American Yacht Club Spring Regatta from his flagship ''Grayling'' on Saturday, April 25, 1998. Commodore Williams' vision, dedication, faith in others, and wonderful sense of humor contributed to his progressive leadership of our Club and the sport of sailing. We extend our deepest sympathies to Lammie and his family. William P. Ketcham, Vice Commodore American Yacht Club
        WILLIAMS-Thomas A. The Board of Directors, the Officers and employees of The Depository Trust Company are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of their President and colleague, Thomas A. Williams. His wise counsel has helped guide us for twenty-five years. He is irreplaceable and will be sorely missed. We extend our condolences to his wife Lammie, their children, grandchildren and and his brother.
        WILLIAMS-Thomas A. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Fund and Committee for Modern Courts, mourn the death of our friend, colleague and Board Member, Thomas A. Williams. We extend our sincere condolences to his family.
      