
        ABZUG-Bella. The National Women's Political Caucus of New York State mourns the death of Bella Abzug, our leader in the fight for women's rights. As we celebrate the 150th anniversary of the Women's Rights Movement, Bella will be remembered as our history and our strength.
        ABZUG-Bella. The Hunter College community is deeply saddened by the passing of Bella Abzug, who spent her extremely productive life supporting a broad range of human rights causes, and was, we are proud to say, a lifelong supporter of Hunter College. She received her B.A. from Hunter in 1942, made her decision to become a lawyer while at Hunter, and went on to become a specialist in labor and civil-liberties law, a political activist who fought for peace and civil rights, and a member of Congress. As a Congresswoman she worked for passage of the Equal Rights Amendment, introduced pioneering legislation promoting women's rights, worked on behalf of a host of laws that sought equality and dignity for all, & became a global symbol of feminism and humanitarianism. After leaving Congress, she concentrated on global women's issues and environmental issues, and in 1990 she joined with other activists to found WEDO-The Women's Environment and Development Organization. She has remained close to her alma mater throughout her life, and our Alumni Association has named her to its Hall of Fame and presented her with its Award for Outstanding Professional Achievement. A lecture series sponsored by our Women's Studies Program is named for her, and she was its first speaker. Her most recent appearance at Hunter was in October 1997, when she gave the College's Millennium Address at our annual Fall Celebration. Her topic was ''Celebrating People's Empowerment for the New Millennium''-an apt subject for a woman who devoted her life to working for people's empowerment. We shall miss her deeply, as will the tens of thousands of people whose lives she touched, and we send our sincerest condolences to her daughters, her entire family, and her many friends and colleagues. David A. Caputo, President, Hunter College
        ABZUG-Bella. With profound grief & loss, The Womens Environment and Development Organization (WEDO) Board, Staff and Global Network, mourns the death of Bella Abzug, our Co-Founder and President. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved family. Bella was a world-class leader, a brilliant tactician in Congress and the U.N., where she championed the rights of women worldwide. She was a fearless and passionate advocate of women's empowerment, equality and a healthy planet. Most of all, she was a woman of principle who never sold out or gave in. Bella, we love you. You have left a living legacy. We will carry on your brand of passionate politics, fighting for social justice, human rights, peace, and a healthy environment. WEDO Board of Director Thais Corral, Brazil Jocelyn Dow, Guyana Elin Enge, Norway Farkhonda Hassan, Egypt Mim Kelber, USA Brownie Ledbetter, USA Wangari Maathai, Kenya Chief Bisi Ogunleye, Nigeria Maria Eugenia Penon, Costa Rica Vandana Shiva, India Hon. Maxine Waters, USA Faye Wattleton, USA Susan Davis, Exec Director
        ABZUG - Bella. The Planned Parenthood family mourns the loss of Bella Abzug, stalwart champion of women's rights and reproductive freedom here at home and around the world. We will miss the sound advice and encouragement of a witty, shrewd, and courageous colleague who illuminated our lives. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Sharon Allison, Chairperson Gloria Feldt, President Planned Parenthood Federation of America
        ABZUG-Bella. The Jewish Fund for Justice mourns the passing of Bella Abzug, a friend, supporter and recipient of our Women of Valor award. Bella was a trailblazing feminist and passionate, relentless fighter for social and economic justice in this country and worldwide. She leaves a towering legacy of accomplishments and hope. Our hearts go out to her daughters, Liz and Eve. Ronna Stamm, President Marlene Provizer, Exec Director
        ABZUG-Bella. The Alumni Association of Hunter College notes with sorrow the passing of its distinguished member of the Class of 1942 and recipient of the 1996 Alumni Award for Outstanding Professional Achievement. We extend condolences to her family and friends. Helene D. Goldfarb, President, Alumni Association
      