
        HYMAN-Roger Alan, M.D. At age 54. Loving husband of Susan. Devoted father of Kevin and Douglas. Father-in-law of Sheila. Son of Charles and Ruth Hyman. Brother of Larry. Chairman of Radiology at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. Board member of American College of Radiology. Services will be held at 10 A.M., Wednesday, April 29, at Riverside Nassau North Chapels, Great Neck, New York.
        HYMAN-Roger A., MD. We are deeply saddened by the loss of a gifted professional and caring individual. As Chairman of the Department of Radiology at North Shore University Hospital, he earned the highest respect from the medical staff and his patients. As a teacher, he was diligent and thorough. As a colleague, his knowledge and vision were a source of strength. His spirit, his warmth, and his kindness will be missed by all. We express our deepest sympathy to all the members of his loving family. Paul Karafiol, MD, President, Medical Staff Peter F. R. Walker, MD Chairman, Medical Board Lawrence Scherr, MD, MACP Senior Vice President Medical Affairs North Shore University Hospital.
        HYMAN-Roger A., MD. The Attending Radiologists of North Shore University Hospital deeply mourn the passing of their Chairman, Roger A. Hyman, MD. A Neuroradiologist of great vision, he created a strong department during his all-to-brief tenure and was a leader in professional societies both locally and nationally. Dr. Hyman touched each of our lives as an exemplary leader, teacher and mentor and as a man of great dignity and bravery. Our prayers and heartfelt sympathy go to all the members of his loving family. Mitchell Goldman, MD, Associate Chairman, and the Staff Department of Radiology North Shore University Hospital.
        HYMAN-Roger A., MD. It is with great sorrow that we note the passing of Roger A. Hyman, MD who was Chairman of the Dept of Radiology at North Shore University Hospital. He embodied the hospital's highest goals, excellence in medicine, advancement of research and commitment to community service. Our deepest sympathies go to his family. Saul B. Katz, Chairman, Board of Trustees John S. T. Gallagher and David R. Dantzker, MD Co-Presidents and CEOs North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        HYMAN-Dr. Roger. NCJW New York Section is saddened by the passing of Dr. Roger Hyman, beloved son of our esteemed Secretary, Ruth and her husband Charles Hyman. Sincerest condolences to the family. Bernice Friedes, Co-President Jean Krosner, Co-President
        HYMAN-Roger. We express our deep sorrow at the death of our beloved friend, Roger. He was brilliant, compassionate and full of life. We will miss him and never forget him. The Gil and Heiman Families
      