
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. Park East Synagogue mourns the untimely passing of our devoted member Jeffrey Boyko, beloved husband of Leslie, father of Alexander, gifted student of our Fromer Religious School, and nephew of our Founder Benefactor and past President of Sisterhood, Charlotte Wool. Heartfelt condolences to them and the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. You were our friend. You were our brother. We will cherish the memories of our times together and cry for the future ones that we will not share. We will watch over Leslie and Alexander and know that you will be guiding and directing from above. You worked so hard. Now rest in peace. All our love. Harriet, Ricky, Richard, Emily and Ilyssa
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership, mourn the passing of Jeffrey Boyko, a pioneer and indispensable supporter and leader of CLAL since its inception. CLAL extends deepest sympathy to his devoted wife, Leslie, his son, Alexander, and his family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Charles R. Bronfman, Chairman Rabbi Irwin Kula, President Rabbi Irving Greenberg, President Emeritus Donna M. Rosenthal, Executive Vice Chairman
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. With great sorrow we mourn the untimely death of our dear nephew and cousin. He was very brave and much loved. Our deepest sympathy to his loving and devoted wife, Leslie, his adoring and adored son Alexander and to his entire family. Aunt Charlotte, Aunt Dorothy, Iris and Howard, Poppy and Ronny Ted and Carole, Larry and Diane
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. You are our best friend, confidant, advisor and mentor. We will never forget the special way you treated us as part of your family. You were always caring and thoughtful, unselfish and giving. Our prayers and love go to Leslie and Alexander. We will miss you forever. Sheldon and Maria Mona and Dan
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. It is with great sadness that we extend our condolences. Jeffrey was a man of wisdom, charm and genuine warmth. His soul will be forever cherished by those of us who were fortunate enough to have known him. Andrea and John Stark Candice and Steven Stark
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. The Directors, neighbors and staff, of Ten-Eighty Apartment Corporation regret with great sorrow the untimely passing of their friend and neighbor, Jeffrey Boyko, and express their sincerest condolences to his wife Leslie and son Alexander.
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. Loyal and dear friend. Handsome, brave and forever optimistic. Playing golf without your direction will never be the same. Our love and deepest sympathy to Leslie and Alex. Marjorie, Alan, Ali and Alana
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. We will miss your friendship, strength and wisdom. You were certainly one in a million. Forever in our hearts. Linda, Marshall, Jordan, Jessica and Jonathan Bernstein
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. Your strength and courage have been an inspiration to us. Our thoughts and love are with Leslie and Alexander. Love, The Baumsteins, the Blasers, the Moses's
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. Our heartfelt sympathy to Leslie and Alex on the untimely passing of a loving husband, father, and friend. Susan, Michael, Jonathan, Hillary
        BOYKO-Jeffrey A. Our heartfelt sympathies to Leslie, his loving wife and Alexander, his adoring son. We will miss him deeply. The Sager family
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. My dear friend. He was always there for me. He will not be forgotten. May God's angels watch over him. Wendy
        BOYKO-Jeffrey. You are forever in our hearts. We will miss you. Stuart and Liz
      