
        PAPAMARKOU - Alexander P. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend, Alexander P. ''Alecko'' Papamarkou, an esteemed member of The Rockefeller University Council for more than fourteen years. He was a cherished advocate of biomedical research. His generosity advanced a broad spectrum of University initiatives, including the Council's yearly outreach programs, which convey exciting discoveries of basic research to non-scientific audiences. Most recently, Alecko Papamarkou established the Dr. Plutarch Papamarkou Professorship of Microbiology and Infectious Diseases, in honor of his late father, a distinguished microbiologist who, among his many contributions to medicine, played a vital role in the eradication of malaria in Greece. Alecko will be remembered for his generosity of spirit, inspiring zest for life, endearing wit and warmth, and steadfast loyalty to his friends and family. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his sister, Lisa Jewell, and her family. Torsten N. Wiesel, President Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman Board of Trustees David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee Stephen Stamas, Vice Chairman
        PAPAMARKOU - Alexander P. The Cycladic Art Foundation mourns the untimely passing of our esteemed Vice-Chairman, Aleco Papamarkou. We shall treasure and miss his wonderful and unchallenged uniqueness, his outstanding leadership, his genuine kindness, his unparalleled generosity and his unwaivering friendship. Aleco's innate intelligence coupled with his boundless energy served as an inspiration to all who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathy to Aleco's sister Lisa and her husband Keith Jewell. Dolly Goulandris, Honorary Director Shelby White, Chairman Estelle Sotirhos, President Basil P. Goulandris, Treasurer John G. Coumantaros, Secretary
        PAPAMARKOU - Alexander P. The Cronson family expresses their sorrow over the death of their friend Alecko whose kindness, thoughtfulness and friendship were so greatly appreciated. We extend our deepest sympathy to his sister Lisa Jewell. Mary, Paul, and Caroline
      