
        WARWICK-Kenneth M., 62. Was a rare human being who exuded brilliance, strength, generosity and a dry northern Irish sense of humor throughout his life, even in the face of terminal illness. He died of cancer at home with beloved family on May 13, 1998. Born in Belfast Northern Ireland in 1936, he was a graduate of Queens University and received his Ph.D. in psychology and statistics at The Institute of Psychiatry at London University. He worked for and with the renowned psychologist, Hans Eysenck at The London University Hospital of Psychiatry at Maudsley. Ken, who rarely referred to himself as Dr. Kenneth M. Warwick, was best known as an eminent expert in statistical research for the marketing industry. A Fellow of the Royal Statistical Society and member of Econometric Society, he was internationally known to be among preeminent statisticians. Ken Warwick & Associates, Inc., specializing in multivariate statistical analysis, consults in advertising, corporate management consulting and market research businesses, and in the legal system and government. As he hoped, his distinguished partner continues his reputation through her expertise. His company has always been a part of his family. His prior career included positions as Associate Research Director and Vice President at SSC&B and Grey Advertising. He was an Executive Vice President of a pioneering market research company. He taught at London, Columbia, and New York Universities. For years he has been an Editor of the Journal of Marketing Research and has written numerous articles on marketing and psychological research. He has been a speaker at and active with The American Marketing Association, The Advertising Research Foundation, The American Psychological Association and The Association of Consumer Research. Ken has contributed to the Partnership For A Drug-Free America, a part of his extensive pro bono work. Dr. Warwick is a recognized authority on the use of multivariate statistical procedures in business research and has initiated the implementation of many methods on digital computers. He has developed numerous proprietary techniques. Ken co-authored the book ''Multivariate Descriptive Statistical Analysis'' with the distinguished Ludovic Lebart and Alain Morineau and has been credited for initiating the use of correspendence analysis from France in American marketing research. Ken and his colleague and friend, Alan Hendrickson, started Cybernetics Research Consultants, a groundbreaking computer statistical analysis co. in Britain. Ken's zest for knowledge and inexhaustible drive for work and excellence were only surpassed by his love for his family. He encouraged and nurtured his children with strong work ethics, empowerment for achievement, zeal for learning, and love for family. His pride in and support for his children was an inextricable part of his nature. This giving spirit, characteristic of his entire family is his legacy. Ken is survived by his wife, Jane Chicoine Warwick, four children, Dr. Zoe Warwick Forsyth, John Alexander Warwick, Alan Warwick, and Richard Warwick; three grandchildren, Daniel, Ryan, and Eric and twins expected in June. His three rescued cats and dog are just one manifestation of love for animals. In lieu of flowers the family suggests that contributions be made according to his wish to The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, or an organization reputed for animal humaneness. A memorial service to be held in New York will be announced shortly. Ken will be laid to rest in his homeland, Northern Ireland with his parents and brother.
      