
        STOLLMAN-Phillip. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn with great sorrow the passing of a founding father and guiding light of our University, Phillip Stollman. A visionary leader, he was a founding patron of Bar-Ilan in 1955 and, in the more than four decades since, has forged a cherished link between the Stollman Family and our University. Phillip, along with his brother and sister-in-law, Max and Frieda (z''l), and his family, has contributed immeasurably to the growth and development of BarIlan. The benefactor of several important campus facilities, including the Stollman Dormitory, Stollman Administration Building, Stollman Laboratory Floor in the Cancer Research Building, and the Stollman Garden, he and his family have supported Bar-Ilan's Exodus Scholarship program, the Slomovitz Program in Public Communication, and the University's Cancer, Aids and immunology Research (CAIR) Institute. Phillip Stollman was the first and longtime chairman of the University's Global Board of Trustees, an honorary chairman for several decades more, a Bar-llan Presidential Founder, and the recipient of an honorary doctorate degree from the University. His commitment to Israel and the Jewish people was reflected in his involvement with myriad Jewish causes and as a leader in his home community of Detroit, MI. His legacy of leadership, sterling philanthropic spirit, gentle speech and compassionate nature will inspire generations to come. We express heartfelt condolences to his son and daughter-in-law, Dr. Gerald and Leila Stollman, his daughters Shirley, Annette and Rochelle, his nephew and niece, Bernard and Barbara Stollman, as well as to his numerous grandchildren, greatgrandchildren and other beloved family members. May they draw solace from inspiring memories and may they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman Chancellor Bar-Ilan University Prof. Moshe Kaveh, President Bar-Ilan University Selik Wengrowsky, Chairman Bar-Ilan Global Bd of Trustees Charles Dimston, Chairman of the Board American Friends of Bar-Ilan Melvin Stein, President American Friends of Bar-Ilan Brig. Gen. (Res.) Yehuda Halevy Executive Vice President Bar-Ilan University
      