
        KAMENY-Nat, 1923-1998. Nat Kameny, 74, a public relations executive widely credited with having launched the Japanese camera industry in the United States, died at his home in Bergenfield, N.J. on Monday, May 25 of complications from heart failure. A dedicated and creative activist for Israel as well as local causes, Mr. Kameny's major interest was the AntiDefamation League of B'nai B'rith of which he had been a National Vice Chairman. In the late 60's, when professional public relations was virtually unheard of in Israel, he founded Israel Communications, Inc., which soon became that country's largest advertising/ p.r. firm. In New Jersey, he worked closely with Bergenfield authorities on many civic projects, including the town library, and served on the board of the Bergen County United Jewish Community, the Solomon Schechter Day School, the Jewish Telegraphic Agency, American Friends of the Haifa University, and the Jewish Foundation for Christian Rescuers. He is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Ruth Zatal of the Bronx, their children, Leslie Kameny and John Lindberg, Ellen and Martin Eber, Debbie and Ken Tracht, and grandchildren, David, Michael, Anna, Sophie, Adam and Raphael. Funeral services will be held at 10:30 AM on Wednesday, May 27th, at Wien and Wien in Hackensack. Contributions may be made to the ADL or to the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center Heart Institute.
        KAMENY-Nat. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Nat Kameny. An ADL Honorary Vice Chairman, Nat's many years of support and service to the League included his Chairmanship of our National Program and Education Committee as well as our National Marketing and Communications Committee. We will miss his creativity, expertise, leadership and wonderful sense of humor. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Ruth, his children Leslie, Ellen and Debra and the family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        KAMENY-Nat. We mourn and grieve the loss of a mentor, guide and fellow community worker, but mostly a dear, personal friend for over thirty years. Our condolence to his lovely wife Ruth, his three daughters, sons-in-law and grandchildren. May they soon find comfort among the mourners of Zion. Susan and Moshe Dworkin
        KAMENY-Nat. Our dear friend we will miss you. Rest in peace. Lucille and Marc Gilbert
      