
        McCAFFREY-Bernard Michael. Of Atlantic Beach, New York, on May 17th, 1998. Graduate of Manhattan College. Executive Director of St. Mary's Hospital, Brooklyn for 25 years. Beloved husband of the late Patricia Elizabeth (nee Connelly). Loving father of Eileen, Christopher, Michele Miranda, Steven and Brian. Dear father-inlaw to Christine and Dominick. Adored grandfather of Saoirse Patricia Miranda. Reposing at Macken Mortuary, Inc., 52 Clinton Avenue, Rockville Centre, N.Y. today and tomorrow 2-4, 7-9 P.M. Funeral Mass St. Ignatius Martyr R.C. Church, Long Beach, Friday, 11:15 A.M. Interment St. Mary's Cemetery, Greenwich, CT. In lieu of flowers, donations to Winthrop Eager Breathers, C/O Winthrop Hospital, Mineola, N.Y. or St. Mary's Hospital in Mr. McCaffrey's name would be appreciated.
        McCAFFREY - Bernard. The members of the Board of Trustees and the administrators and staff of St. Mary's Hospital of Brooklyn deeply regret the death of Bernard McCaffrey, retired executive director of St. Mary's Hospital of Brooklyn, and longtime champion of high quality healthcare for the people of Brooklyn. We offer our heartfelt prayers and our deepest sympathy to his children and the entire McCaffrey family on this sad occasion. Rev. Msgr. Austin P. Bennett Chairman, Board of Trustees
        McCAFFREY - Bernard. The members of the Board of Trustees of Catholic Medical Center of Brooklyn and Queens mourn the passing of Bernard McCaffrey, retired executive director of Catholic Medical Center's St. Mary's Hospital of Brooklyn. We offer our heartfelt prayers and our deepest sympathy to the McCaffrey family on their great loss. Most Rev. Joseph M. Sullivan Episcopal Vicar for Health and Human Services Chairman, Board of Trustees
        McCAFFREY - Bernard. The members of the administrative staff of Catholic Medical Center of Brooklyn and Queens deeply regret the death of Bernard McCaffrey, retired executive director of Catholic Medical Center's St. Mary's Hospital of Brooklyn. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to the McCaffrey family and offer them our prayers in this time of sorrow. William D. McGuire President and Chief Executive Officer
        McCAFFREY - Bernard. The members of the Medical Board of Catholic Medical Center of Brooklyn and Queens note with sorrow the passing of Bernard McCaffrey, retired executive director of Catholic Medical Center's St. Mary's Hospital of Brooklyn. We are saddened by the McCaffrey family's loss, and we extend our deepest sympathy to them. Sebastian Avolese, M.D. President, Medical Board
      