
        SINATRA-Frank. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved Abbot Emeritus Frank Sinatra. To the world he was the Chairman of the Board, but to the Friars he was a friend who touched our lives, not only in song, but also through his personal guidance. He was fierce in his dedication and continued support of humanitarian causes, which was always achieved with modesty. He helped us preserve the rich theatrical roots of the Friars Club and his name belongs among the legendary & immortal Friars like Jack Benny, George Burns, Enrico Caruso, George M. Cohan, Cary Grant, George Jessel, Joe E. Lewis, Dean Martin, Ed Sullivan and Mike Todd, and, like them, he shared a legacy of commitment to the very best. We are honored and proud to have been touched by the legend that will always be Frank Sinatra. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jack L. Green, Dean Emeritus David W. Tebet, Chamberlain Jean Pierre Trebot, Exec. Dir.
        SINATRA-Frank. The American Friends of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn with great sorrow the passing of Frank Sinatra, a longtime and committed supporter who established the Frank Sinatra International Student Center on the University's Mount Scopus campus. Involved with AFHU since 1972 and a recipient of the organization's highest honor, the Scopus Award, Mr. Sinatra had a close and enduring friendship with The Hebrew University and a great fondness for the State of Israel. To his entire family we extend our deepest condolences. The American Friends of The Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President Fred S. Lafer, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan Executive Vice President
        SINATRA-Frank. The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourns the death of our friend Frank Sinatra. ''Old Blue Eyes'' organized, produced and performed in seven sold out concerts that raised millions for cancer treatment and research for Memorial Sloan-Kettering and the Frank Sinatra Fund of MSKCC. His gracious support remains with us today. We send our heartfelt condolences to his family. Mrs. Coleman P. Burke, President The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        SINATRA-Frank. The Board of Trustees, Arts Advisory Board, and Staff of the Princess Grace Foundation-USA deeply mourn the passing of Mr. Frank Sinatra, a founding member of our Arts Advisory Board. The Foundation is eternally grateful for Mr. Sinatra's outstanding commitment, generosity, and dedication to the mission of the Princess Grace Awards. We express heartfelt condolences to his entire family.
        SINATRA-Frank. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Carnegie Hall salute the memory of one of the legends of our century, and a true and sincere friend to Carnegie Hall. We mourn his passing, but his legacy will live forever. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weill, Chairman Judith Arron, Executive Director
      