
        CHASIS-Herbert, M.D. Age 92. Professor of Medicine, New York University School of Medicine. Died peacefully on May 11, 1998. Survived by wife Barbara Parker, daughers Joel Anne and Sarah, grandsons Dan and Garrett Roll, Jonathan Hiles, and granddaughter Rachel Hiles. Services private. Memorial service at a later date. Contributions may be made to NYU School of Medicine for the Herbert Chasis Memorial Fund.
        CHASIS-Herbert, M.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Herbert Chasis, Professor of Medicine, a world recognized physician scientist, academician and clinician. He was the prominent and proud son, husband and father of NYU alumni. At the age of 92, he was an active member of our faculty. He was a pioneer in research of human physiology and clinical investigations. Along with Homer Smith and William Goldring, he did the classical, original and imaginitive research of the physiology of human kidney function and of the pathophysiology of the kidneys in hypertension and nephritis. His research lead to the establishment of the golden era of clinical investigation worldwide. Dr. Chasis was an outstanding, unusually effective and admired teacher who taught many generations of students and house officers. He stimulated many to think clearly and critically. He was the recipient of awards, notably the Solomon Berson Achievement Award of NYU Alumni Association. He was the talented author of historical publications of Bellevue and of NYU School of Medicine. His many patients were very devoted and respected his unique clinical skills. We express our deepest sympathy to his wonderful spouse Barbara ('41) an active productive member of our faculty who was always at his side, his daughter Joelle ('70) a leading hematology researcher, his daughter Sarah a prominent environmental protection lawyer, his sons-in-law and his grandchildren. We will miss him Saul J. Farber, M.D., The Frederick H. King Professor and Chairman, Department of Medicine, Director, Medical Services Bellvue and Tisch Hospitals
        CHASIS-Herbert M.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Herbert Chasis, Professor of Medicine, a pioneering nephrologist and acclaimed physician scientist, academician and clinician. Dr. Chasis was an NYU School of Medicine alumnus who served the school for 65 years until his death on May 11. He was 92 years old. Dr. Chasis was a pioneering clinical investigator who, along with Homer Smith and William Goldring, provided the original framework for understanding the physiology of human kidney function and the pathophysiology of the kidneys in hypertension and nephritis. Dr. Chasis graduated from NYU School of Medicine in 1930 and joined its faculty in 1933. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Parker, M.D., Assistant Professor of Medicine at NYU School of Medicine who also graduated from NYU School of Medicine (Class of 1941) and his daughters Joelle, a leading hematology researcher and a graduate of the School of Medicine (Class of 1970) and Sarah, an environmental lawyer, as well as sons-in-law and grandchildren. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. We will miss him. The family would like donations in lieu of flowers to be sent to NYU School of Medicine for the Herbert Chasis Memorial Fund. Noel L. Cohen, M.D. Interim Dean NYU School of Medicine Interim Provost NYU Medical Center
      