
        STRIGLER-Mordechai. A powerful voice has been stilled. The readers, publishers, editors, writers and staff of The Forward Newspapers mourn the death of Mordechai Strigler, editor of our Yiddish edition. Educated in one of the great yeshivas of pre-war Poland, he survived torment and slaughter and found the words not only to describe what he had seen, but then also to write of Yidishkayt and of Israel. He was among the most prolific writers of his generation, spanning increasingly disparate worlds in his erudition and his creativity. A gentle soul to his colleagues, he was respected for his knowledge, lucidity and craftsmanship. May his wife Esther and daughter Leah be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Zol di erd im gring zayn. The Forward Assocation Barnett Zumoff, M.D. President Samuel Norich General Manager
        STRIGLER-Mordechai. We join our friends and colleagues at the Forward Association in mourning at the passing of Mordechai Strigler, a longtime editor-in-chief of the Jewish Forward, and of the monthly, the Yidisher Kemfer. He was an outstanding journalist, an erudite poet and essayist, and recipient of the noted Manger Prize for Literature. The world of Yiddish letters is greatly diminished by his death. We honor his memory, and our deepest condolences to his bereaved wife and daughter. Bruce Slovin, Chairman of the Board Tom L. Freudenheim, Executive Director YIVO Institute for Jewish Research
        STRIGLER-Mordechai. On May 10th, 1998. Beloved husband of Esther, devoted father of Leah, beloved brother of Rochelle Degen & Anne Brenner, of the late Sonya Fecher and Fayge Pel. Teacher, writer, editor, scholar, member of the Buchenwald resistance against the Nazis, a leader of the Labor Zionist Movement in both Paris & New York. Editor of ''Der Yidisher Kemfer'' & the Yiddish ''Forverts.'' Recipient of the Itzik Manger Prize awarded by the President of the State of Israel. His writing spanned poetry, essays, cultural history, rabbinic writings, politics and fiction. Donations in his name may be sent to the Forward Foundation, 45 East 33rd Street, New York, New York 10016.
        STRIGLER-Mordechai. The National Yiddish Book Center mourns the passing of a great friend of Yiddish culture and a great editor, scholar, writer, and teacher. ''Zkhroyne l'vrokhe''May his memory be for a blessing. The National Yiddish Book Center Amherst, MA
      