
        TERNER-Emanuel M., 89. On May 5th, 1998. Cherished and beloved husband of Mathilda (nee Weisenfeld). Loving father of Nancy Behrman, Elaine Cooper and Carol Lederman, father-in-law to Stanley and Mark. Devoted grandfather of Peter (Josephine) Grayson, Alan (Kim) Mnuchin, Steven Mnuchin, Amy (Jeff) Verschleiser & Judy Lederman. Adoring great grandfather of Bradley Louis Grayson. Dear brother of Selma Slater. Friends may call Thursday evening 6-8PM. Services Friday, May 8, at 12 noon at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Burial service private. Donations in his memory may be made to St. Mary's Hospital, 901 45th Street, West Palm Beach, Florida 33407.
        TERNER-Emanuel. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation note with sadness the death of Emanuel Terner, a former member of the Wine and Spirits Division executive committee and division honoree. An outstanding philanthropist, he was firmly committed to Jewish education and health care through the Terner Foundation. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Mathilda; daughters Nancy T. Behrman, Elaine T. Cooper and Carol T. Lederman, and all the members of the family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Jack R. Battipaglia and Herman I. Merinoff, Div Chairs Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        TERNER-Emanuel M. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns its former Trustee and supporter of human rights and religious freedom. To Matilda, his beloved partner in life, and daughters Nancy, Elaine and Carol, sons-in-law Stanley and Mark, his sister Selma, and the entire family, our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier, President Reverend Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. Dr. David H. C. Read, Vice Pres.
        TERNER-Emanuel M. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend, member and past president, Mr. Emanuel Terner. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Alan S. Berger, President Eric B. Sambol, Secretary
        TERNER-Emanuel. Our dear friend of many, many years, our times together will always be with us. Our sympathy to his dear Matty and his family. Lola and Saul Kramer
      