
        WEBSTER-Charles D. Of Islip, NY, on May 15, 1998 in his ninetythird year. He was the devoted husband of the late Natalie Peters Webster & is survived by nephews John W. Mitchell of Greenwich, CT, James Fitz of CA, and a niece Mary Mitchell of AZ. A graduate of Dartmouth College in 1926, he served as a naval officer during World War II. He had leadership and advisory roles in many diverse organizations concerned with wildlife and environmental conservation, scientific research, horticulture, the arts, and civic improvement. These included Chairman of the Board, The Seatuck Environmental Association, Islip, NY; Chairman Emeritus of The Horticultural Society of NY; Trustee, (1971-95) the Bayard Cutting Arboretum, Oakdale, NY; Director, International Wild Waterfowl Association, Jamestown, ND; Chairman Emeritus, Caribbean Conservation Corporation, Tallahassee FL; Field Associate in Ornithology, NY Zoological Society; Fellow, Old Westbury Gardens; Administrative Board, Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology; Chairman, Garden Committee, The Cloisters; Visiting Committee, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Medieval Art Dept.; Fellow, The Frick Collection; and many other organizations. Mr. Webster resided at ''Twyford'', located on the Seatuck National Wildlife Refuge, Islip NY. The refuge property was donated by Mr. Webster and his late wife to the Fish and Wildlife Service of the US Dept. of the Interior in 1968. A memorial service will be held at 11 A.M., on Friday, May 22nd, 1998, St. Mark's Episcopal Church, Islip, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Seatuck Environmental Association, P.O. Box 31, Islip NY 11751 or to St. Mark's Episcopal Church, 754 Montauk Highway, Islip NY 11751 would be appreciated.
        WEBSTER-Charles D. ''Chuck'' Webster for many years not only ran The Horticultural Society of New York (HSNY) as its President, he was, in many ways, HSNY personified. He brought wisdom, passion and deep emotional and financial commitment to HSNY. HSNY might not be here today had he not sustained, supported and guided it through many difficult and challenging years.
      