
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. The national administration of Agudath Israel of America mourns the loss of the beloved president Rabbi Moshe Sherer, a man of vision whose extraordinary qualities of intelligence and integrity, strength & stamina, character & charisma, piety and personality, determination and dignity, lifted the Agudath Israel movement to heights unimaginable to anyone but himself. His humble devotion to Torah and its scholars, his untiring efforts on behalf of Jewish education, his unbridled love for all Jews, his passionate defense of authentic Judaism, inspired all who were privileged to know him. May his dear family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem, and may the Agudath Israel movement find the strength to carry on his remarkable legacy. Rabbi Shmuel Kamenetsky, Chairman, Rabbinic Presidium Albert Reichmann, Chairman, National Board Benjamin Fishoff, Chairman Board of Trustees Louis Glueck, Chairman Commission on Social Services Dr. David Diamond and Moshe Zafir, Chairmen, Vaad Hanhala
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. On behalf of the entire executive staff of Agudath Israel of America, we mourn the loss of our indefatigable leader Rabbi Moshe Sherer. He taught us, by word and by example, that working for the Jewish people is both an honor and a responsibility; and that to accomplish Agudath Israel's lofty mission, we needed to do our jobs as if our lives depended on it. He loved us and guided us like a father loves and guides a child. We will miss him terribly and carry his vision with us forever. Rabbi Shmuel Bloom Executive Vice President Rabbi Boruch Borchardt, Executive Director Joseph Friedenson, General Sec'y Rabbi Shlomo Gertzulin Vice President and Comptroller Rabbi Avi Shafran, Director of Public Affairs David Zwiebel, Esq., Director of Government Affairs
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. The Washington Office of Agudath Israel of America mourns the passing of Rabbi Moshe Sherer, national president of Agudath Israel. He was an active presence in the nation's capital for better than half-a-century, advocating the interests and articulating the views of Orthodox Jewry with professionalism, dignity and effectiveness. He realized one of his lifelong dreams in 1988 when Agudath Israel opened the first ever, and still only, full-time Orthodox Jewish government affairs office in Washington. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his dear family, and our fervent prayer that we always live up to his high standards. Nathan Lewin, Esq., Chairman Washington Office, Advisory Council Abba Cohen, Esq., Director and Counsel
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. Agudath Israel World Organization mourns the passing of our distinguished chairman Rabbi Moshe Sherer. We treasured the breadth of vision that inspired him, the ethical guidelines that directed him, and the pragmatic sensibilities that guided him. We will miss his leadership in representing our constituencies before the Memorial Foundation for Jewish culture, the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, the World Jewish Restitution Organization and other international bodies. Primarily we will miss his gentle wit, his eloquent wisdom, and his fidelity to the directives of his Torah compass. Rabbi Yehuda Meir Abramowitz International Co-Chairman Rabbi Chaskel Besser, American Chapter Prof. Harry Reicher, U.N. Representative
        SHERER-Moshe, Rabbi. The Boca Raton Synagogue Community deeply mourns the loss of Rabbi Moshe Sherer, president of Agudath Israel of America. His compassionate leadership was influenced by the Torah from which he drew his nurture, and was committed and true to the highest ideals of social responsibiity. ''Torat Emet Hayta b'Phihu -The law of truth was in his mouth.'' Rabbi Sherer will be missed for his contributions to the Jewish and world community. Rabbi Kenneth Brander, Rabbi Rabbi Joshua Fass, Assistant Rabbi Mr. Mitchell Stiel, President
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. A leader & spokesman for authentic Torah Jewry for over 5 decades: a man who brought dignity and respectability to his people. He also gave substantial help to countless individuals, institutions & organizations. He will be sorely missed by all of us. May his memory be blessed. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva Derech Ayson of Far Rockaway Rabbi Yachiel I. Perr, Rosh Yeshiva Rabbi Aaron M. Brafman, Menahel
        SHERER-Moshe. The Boca Raton Synagogue Community deeply mourns the loss of Rabbi Moshe Sherer, president of Agudath Israel of America. His compassionate leadership was influenced by the Torah from which he drew his nurture, and was committed and true to the highest ideals of social responsibility. ''Torat Emet Hayta b'Phihu -The law of truth was in his mouth.'' Rabbi Sherer will be missed for his contributions to the Jewish and world community. Rabbi Kenneth Brander, Rabbi Rabbi Joshua Fass, Asst Rabbi Mr. Mitchell Stiel, President
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. Am Echad deeply mourns the loss of its respected and beloved founder and committee member Rabbi Moshe Sherer, a man of vision and principle who was filled with love and concern for all his fellow Jews. His efforts to reach out to others and to ensure true Jewish unity and continuity inspired us, and will continue to do so until the arrival of the Messiah. Abraham Biderman, Chairman
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. The Officers, Trustees and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee express their deep sorrow at the passing of Rabbi Moshe Sherer, a friend of JDC and of Jews in need around the world. Jonathan W. Kolker, Pres. Michael Schneider, Exec V.P. Ambassador Milton A. Wolf Chairman of the Board
      