
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. As charismatic president of Agudas Israel, he shaped and sustained one of the most vital and vibrant Torah communities in America. He was a master conciliator who never compromised his steadfast spiritual principles and values, as he forged lifesaving bridges among disparate groups. With indomitable spirit, he fought for Klal Yisroel's religious and civil rights, and reparations for Holocaust victims. He interfaced with seven American presidents and the world's most powerful leaders, yet his center was always family and faith. Rabbi Sherer was the authentic Halachic man who perceived the human condition ''with both eyes.'' Touro College will miss his friendship and counsel, and extends its deepest sympathy to his wife Deborah; his children, Rochel Langer, Elky Goldschmidt, and Rabbi Shimshon Sherer; and his son-in-law, Prof. Robert Goldschmidt, our esteemed Dean of Students. May they be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Yerushalayim. Dr. Bernard Lander, President Mr. Mark Hasten, Chairman of the Board
        SHERER-Moshe. We are deeply saddened at the passing of Rabbi Moshe Sherer, president of Agudath Israel of America and a highly respected leader in the American Orthodox Jewish community. A lifelong leader in the field of Jewish education, Rabbi Sherer helped foster greater understanding of Jewish issues in the wider community. Rabbi Sherer was always a strong supporter of Maimonides Medical Center, and we wish to express our deepest sympathy to his wife Deborah, his daughters Rochel Langer and Elky Goldschmidt, his son Rabbi Shimshon Sherer, and his many grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Martin Payson, Chairman Board of Trustees Stanley Brezenoff President and CEO Trustees and Staff Maimonides Medical Center
        SHERER-Moshe. The officers, trustees and staff of the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture mourn the passing of Rabbi Moshe Sherer, President of Agudath Israel of America. Rabbi Sherer was deeply committed to the Foundation's programs for the reconstruction of Jewish cultural life after the Holocaust. As a longtime member of our Board of Trustees and an accomplished leader of Orthodox Jewish life in America, he worked harmoniously with the Foundation, representing the entire spectrum of Jewish religious and communal life, to advance Jewish cultural activities globally. To his family and colleagues at Agudath Israel of America, we extend our sincerest condolences. Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler President Dr. Jerry Hochbaum Executive Vice-President
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. The Metropolitan New York Coordinating Council on Jewish Poverty mourns the passing of one of American Jewry's great leaders. His leadership helped create this Council on Jewish Poverty 26 years ago. Rabbi Sherer's vision of a united Jewish community caring and helping one another was part of his Torah values. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Merryl H. Tisch, President William E. Rapfogel, Exec Dir
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. Great leader of the Jewish people, steadfast voice for moderation and peace. Outstanding teacher of Torah and Jewish values. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack Bendheim, President, Israel Policy Forum
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. He was more of a son than a son-in-law; he was more of a brother than a brother-in-law. We loved him and we miss him. Our hearts go out to our sister and our nephews and nieces. Anne Bienenfeld, Fay Hollander, Evelyn Kleinman and our families.
        SHERER-Rabbi Moshe. EMUNAH of America records with profound sorrow the passing of a dynamic Jewish leader. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Sylvia Schonfeld National President
      