
        KAO-Chien Yuan. Died unexpectedly at the age of 70 Tuesday evening at his home in Pound Ridge, New York. He was born in Shanghai, China on Decembr 20, 1927; son of Dr. Ching Lang and Mrs. Yu Yuen Kao. Chien Yuan Kao came to the United States in 1948, and earned his medical degree from SUNY Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, New York. While conducting research at the Rockefeller University, he met Rita Christine Rothlin; they were married on June 20, 1957. Dr. Kao was an active Professor of Pharmacology at SUNY Downstate Health Sciences Center at the time of his death. He frequently spent summers performing rsearch at the Marine Biological Laboratories at Woods Hole, Massachusetts. He was a leading authority on the actions of tetrodotoxin and saxitoxin, which are responsible for fugu and paralytic shell fish poisonings. In addition, Dr. Kao's recent work involved the use of lidocaine to suppress uterine smooth muscle contractions which cause pre-term labor and premature births. In addition, Dr. Kao served as a trustee for the Harvey School in Katonah, New York. His numerous interests included avid reading of history, and sculpting, especially with metals. Chien Yuan and Christine Kao were married for forty years, before her death last July from ovarian cancer. At the time of his unexpected death, he was engaged to be married to Geraldine Kelly of Pound Ridge. Dr. Kao is survived by his sons, Dr. Peter Nicholas Kao of Palo Alto, California, a faculty physician-scientist at Stanford University and Hilary Rothlin Kao of Arlington, Virginia, an attorney, and three grandchildren. He is also survived by his sisters, Rose Chang, Mary Chin, Lillian Luh, Florence Shen, Evelina Loke, Miranda Linne, and Judith Ng. In recognition of his lifelong devotion to education, the family will establish a scholarship fund for medical student research. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be sent to SUNY Downstate Medical Center, c/o the Dr. C.Y. Kao Memorial Medical Student Research Fund, 450 Clarkson Avenue, Brooklyn, New York, 11203. The family will receive friends at the F. Hoyt Funeral Home, 199 Main Street, New Canaan. Connecticut on Friday, May 29 from 5 to 8 PM. A graveside service will be held at Lakeview Cemetery, South Main Street, New Canaan, Connecticut on Saturday, May 30 at 3 P.M.
      