
        TIGER-Marvin. The Board of Trustees of The Brookdale University Hospital & Medical Center record with profound sorrow the untimely death of our beloved and distinguished Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Marvin Tiger joined Brookdale in 1994. His dedication to the healthcare sector of over 30 years and his leadership in the financial management of this institution has enabled us to flourish as a leading provider of healthcare in the community. Marvin Tiger also served as Past President of the Healthcare Financial Management Association. Our condolences to his wife Michele and daughters Lisa McKinnon and husband Ewen; Caryn Paillex and husband Bruce, and to his sister Roberta Tavss. The family requests that all charitable contributions be forwarded to: The International Myeloma Foundation, 2129 Stanley Hill Drive, Los Angeles, CA 90046. 800452-CURE or fax 213-656-1182. Edwin L. Schulman, Chairman David I. Schachne, Chairman, Executive Committee
        TIGER-Marvin. The Administration and staff of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Although combating illness for many years, he was a man with an abiding concern for the welfare of others. Marvin Tiger was a valued friend to all who knew him. May the memory of his countless good deeds help ease his family's pain at their great loss. We shall seek comfort in sharing inspiring memories of his unique humor and will sorely miss his counsel and wisdom. Frank J. Maddalena, President and CEO
        TIGER-Marvin. The Medical Staff of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center record with profound sorrow the death of our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. He was a dedicated leader whose concern for the patient's well-being will remain as an inspiration to us all, forever. His courage throughout his long and valiant battle has strengthened each and every one of us. Condolences to his family. Alvin I. Kahn, MD Sr. Vice President, Medical Affairs I. Akiva Wulkan, MD President, Medical Board Eric I. Saltzman, MD President, Medical Staff
        TIGER-Marvin. The Board of Governors, members and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association deeply regret the passing of Marvin Tiger, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center. His leadership and dedication to the health care community was an inspiration to all of us, and his presence will be greatly missed. We would like to extend our most sincere condolencs to his family and friends. Barry R. Freedman, Chairman Kenneth E. Raske, President Greater N. Y. Hospital Association
        TIGER-Marvin. The Board of Directors of the Dorothy and David I. Schachne Institute for Nursing and Rehabilitation mourn with sorrow the passing of Marvin Tiger, The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. His dignity, dedication and wisdom will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Michele and daughters Caryn and Lisa and their families. Martin J. Simon, Chairman
        TIGER-Marvin. The Board of Directors of the Samuel and Bertha Schulman Institute for Nursing and Rehabilitation mourn the death of Marvin Tiger, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center. His devotion to Brookdale will long be remembered. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Michele and the entire family on the passing of their loved one. Edwin L. Schulman, President
        TIGER-Marvin. The Associate Board of Directors of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center notes with deep sorrow the passing of Brookdale's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. His friendship will be deeply missed. Hon. Samuel Plotkin, Chairman
      