
        QUIRIN-Edward J. 87, of 9 Bayberry Ridge Road, died Friday, May 22, 1998 at Essex Meadows Healthcare Facility, Essex, CT. Mr. Quirin was born in New York City on April 26, 1911 the son of Lewis and Bertha Krepps Quirin. He has lived in Old Lyme for the past 25 years and was formerly from New York City where he was the former chairman and president of Frederic R. Harris, Inc. He joined the firm in 1939; 12 years after it was founded by Rear Admiral Frederic R. Harris, retired Chief of the U.S. Navy's Bureau of Yards and Docks. He rose to lead the firm shortly after the Admiral's death in 1949 and oversaw a period of unprecedented growth and diversification. Originally focused predominantly on ports and marine work, he quickly steered the company into other sectors such as highways, mass transit and oil industry related facilities. Harris became global in its business operations, securing assignments in Europe, Latin America, Africa, Australia and Southeast Asia. Harris became one of the first true multinational corporations, creating joint companies in many countries including Turkey, Iran, Spain, Italy and Venezuela. Under Mr. Quirin's leadership, the firm secured and performed some of the world's largest projects of the late 1950's and early 1960's including the design and construction management of a program to build U.S. military bases in Spain; the Kharg Island Oil Terminal in Iran and the Inner Ring Road project in Antwerp, Belgium, for which he received an award from the Belgian Government. Mr. Quirin, who retired from the firm in 1972, held a Bachelor of Science Degree in Civil Engineering from Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. After retirement, he served for two years as president of his alma mater and was also president of the Board of Directors of the Knickerbocker Hospital in New York City. He was a licensed Professional Engineer in several states as well as an accomplished writer, having authored several articles on dry docks for the Encyclopedia Americana. He was a member of Christ the King Church in Old Lyme, a past president and life trustee of the Connecticut River Museum in Essex and was a partner in the engineering consulting firm of Besier, Gibble and Quirin in Old Saybrook, CT. He married Margaret M. O'Hara in New York City on December 16, 1972. In addition to his wife he is survived by two daughters: Barbara Ann Badran of Cambridge, Maryland and Eleanor Catherine Loss of Los Angeles, California, a sister Louise Spahn of Oneonta, New York, four grandchildren and one greatgrandson. He was predeceased by a brother, Karl Quirin and a sister Betty Kelly. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held at 11:00 A.M. on Wednesday, May 27, 1998 at Christ the King Church. Burial will follow in Eight Mile River Cemetery, Lyme. Friends may call on Monday evening from 7:00 to 9:00 P.M. and Tuesday from 2:00 to 4:00 and 7:00 to 9:00 P.M. at the Fulton-Theroux Funeral Home, Beckwith Lane, Old Lyme, CT. Donations may be made in his memory to Christ the King Church, PO Box 443, Old Lyme, CT 06371.
      