
        GOELET-Francis. We mourn with profound sadness, the death of our dear friend Francis Goelet. A Member of our Board of Directors for more than four decades, the longest tenure of any board member in the Metropolitan Opera's modern history, Francis Goelet's distinquished service on our board continued his family's commitment to the Metropolitan Opera, which dates back to the creation of our company more than 100 years ago. We recall his love of opera, particularly his commitment to 20th century opera and the French repertory. His extraordinary patronage leaves a legacy of 16 Met productions. In addition to his annual patronage, Francis Goelet enabled the Metropolitan Opera to present the world's premiers of three operas by American composers-''Vanessa'' and ''Antony and Cleopatra'' by Samuel Barber and ''The Ghost of Versailles'' by John Corigliano. His interest in the French repertory is represented by his gifts of the new productions and revivals of ''Les Troyens'', Samson et Dalila'', Pelleas et Melisande'', Dialogue of the Carmelites'', ''Parade'', Les Contes d'Hoffman'', and a concert version of ''The Damnation of Faust''. His commitment to young opera artists is represented by his gifts to our Young Artists Development Program, through the Kathryn T. Long Trust, where he served as the principal trustee. All of us who were privileged to know Frank, will remember his friendship with deep affection. His service to the arts, especially music and opera, will be a singular inspiration for future generations. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and his friends. The Metropolitan Opera Association
        GOELET-Francis. The Philharmonic Symphony-Society of New York, Inc. notes with profound sadness the death of Francis Goelet, one of the most tireless supporters, planners and benefactors in our 156 year history. Mr. Goelet joined the Board in 1959, becoming Vice Chairman in 1985. He served on its Music Policy, Artistic Advisory, 150th Anniversary Policy and Planning committees. Through his generous giving, the Philharmonic launched two long-range commissioning projects - one of them the unprecedented 150th Anniversary Commissions program. Mr. Goelet also helped launch numerous initiatives that today are integral parts of the Philharmonic's offerings, including the regular series of free Pre-Concert Lectures and the Philharmonic Emsembles concerts in Merkin Hall. The entire Phiharmonic family is deeply indebted to Mr. Goelet's extraordinary vision, strong leadership and unwavering pursuit of excellence, all of which have in large measure secured a legacy of great music for generations to come, while charting our course into the future. Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Deborah Borda, Executive Dir
        GOELET-Francis. The Board of Trustees of the Recorded Anthology of American Music, and the staff of New World Records, mourn the loss of our chairman, Francis Goelet, a major artistic presence in our lives. Mr. Goelet's encouragement of American composers, French music, and contemporary music was exemplary. His humor, enthusiasm, high artistic standards, business acumen, and musical knowledge were demonstrated by the projects he supported. These ranged from opera, symphonic and chamber music, to musical theater and jazz. His numerous commissions and support of countless composers and performers served several generations of audiences. We extend our profound condolences to his family. We shall miss him. Herman E. Krawitz, President
      