
        GOELET-Francis. 1926-1998. Died at his home in Riverside, Conn, May 21st. Son of Robert Walton Goelet and Anne Marie Guestier. Survived by his sister, Beatrice G. Manice and two brothers, Robert G. Goelet and John Goelet. A patron of the arts and a businessman who looked after his family interests, he will be deeply missed by his friends and relatives. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Recorded Anthology of American Music, c/o New World Records, 701 Seventh Ave., New York, New York 10036.
        GOELET-Francis. We mourn with profound sadness, the death of our dear friend Francis Goelet. A Member of our Board of Directors for more than four decades, the longest tenure of any board member in the Metropolitan Opera's modern history, Francis Goelet's distinquished service on our board continued his family's commitment to the Metropolitan Opera, which dates back to the creation of our company more than 100 years ago. We recall his love of opera, particularly his commitment to 20th century opera and the French repertory. His extraordinary patronage leaves a legacy of 16 Met productions. In addition to his annual patronage, Francis Goelet enabled the Metropolitan Opera to present the world's premiers of three operas by American composers-''Vanessa'' and ''Antony and Cleopatra'' by Samuel Barber and ''The Ghost of Versailles'' by John Corigliano. His interest in the French repertory is represented by his gifts of the new productions and revivals of ''Les Troyens'', Samson et Dalila'', Pelleas et Melisande'', Dialogue of the Carmelites'', ''Parade'', Les Contes d'Hoffman'', and a concert version of ''The Damnation of Faust''. His commitment to young opera artists is represented by his gifts to our Young Artists Development Program, through the Kathryn T. Long Trust, where he served as the principal trustee. All of us who were privileged to know Frank, will remember his friendship with deep affection. His service to the arts, especially music and opera, will be a singular inspiration for future generations. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and his friends. The Metropolitan Opera Association
        GOELET-Francis. The Philharmonic Symphony-Society of New York, Inc. notes with profound sadness the death of Francis Goelet, one of the most tireless supporters, planners and benefactors in our 156 year history. Mr. Goelet joined the Board in 1959, becoming Vice Chairman in 1985. He served on its Music Policy, Artistic Advisory, 150th Anniversary Policy and Planning committees. Through his generous giving, the Philharmonic launched two long-range commissioning projects - one of them the unprecedented 150th Anniversary Commissions program. Mr. Goelet also helped launch numerous initiatives that today are integral parts of the Philharmonic's offerings, including the regular series of free Pre-Concert Lectures and the Philharmonic Emsembles concerts in Merkin Hall. The entire Phiharmonic family is deeply indebted to Mr. Goelet's extraordinary vision, strong leadership and unwavering pursuit of excellence, all of which have in large measure secured a legacy of great music for generations to come, while charting our course into the future. Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Deborah Borda, Executive Dir
      