
        LOVELL-Frank. A prominent socialist writer and author on trade union issues, died in New York City May 1 of a heart attack at the age of 84. He had lived in Manhattan for the past thirty years. Attracted to a revolutionary and democratic variety of socialism often associated with the Socialist Party of Eugene V. Debs and the militant Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) as well as the idealism of the early Communist movement, Lovell became part of the small international movement led by Leon Trotsky known as the Fourth International. His political commitment and analytical insight were widely appreciated in left-wing and labor circles-as were his warmth, avid intellectual curiosity, adroit sense of humor, and engaging interest in persons of all ages and backgrounds. He was born on July 24, 1913, in Ipava, Illinois, a farming town where his father was a local entrepreneur. In the early 1930's Lovell attended the University of California's radical Berkeley campus, earning a Bachelor's Degree in philosophy. He was drawn into the socialist movement just after the San Francisco general strike, joining the Workers Party of the United States, led by James P. Cannon and A.J. Muste, in 1935. He consequently became a seaman and an organizer for the Sailor's Union of the Pacific. In 1938, Lovell was a founding member of the Socialist Workers Party, & for many years played a leading role in that organization, especially as a trade union activist. For a number of years he served on national leadership bodies of the SWP. He wrote extensively for socialist publications on labor issues and other matters, and under the pen-name Frederick Lang wrote a classic-''Maritime!'' (New York: Pioneer Publishers, 1943). In Portland, Oregon in the late 1940s he edited ''The Defender'', a rankand-file paper opposing the conservatism and anti-left purges triumphing throughout the maritime industry and unions. In the early 1950s Frank moved to Detroit with his wife Sarah and their infant daughter, Joan. There he became an auto worker and a member of the United Auto Workers. With close friends, George & Dorothea Breitman, Frank and Sarah played an especially significant role in the Detroit labor and socialist movements of the 1950s and 1960s. They initiated and maintained for many years the influential Friday Night Socialist Forum (later called the Militant Forum), a weekly series tht drew a broad range of prominent trade unionists and workingclass militants, civil rights and black liberation activists, scholars, intellectuals, students and others. They also ran openly socialist electoral campaigns-such as Frank's campaigns for Governor of Michigan on the SWP ticket in 1954, 1958 and 1964. In the late 1960s they moved to New York City, where Frank served as the Socialist Workers Party's trade union director. Expelled with hundreds of others from the SWP in the early 1980s, Lovell initiated publication of ''Bulletin In Defense Of Marxism'' in December of 1983. He served as first editor of this magazine, and later on its Editorial Board. (Before her death in 1994, Sarah Lovell played a central role as the magazine's treasurer and chief copy editor.) In Frank's final years he was also active in the Metro New York Labor Party and worked effectively to secure financial support for the Ernest Mandel Institute in Brussels, Belgium and the Leon Trotsky Museum at Coyoacan in Mexico City. Frank Lovell is survived by his dear companion, Miriam Braverman, of Manhattan; his beloved daughter, Joan Lovell, and son-in-law Mark Weiss, of Detroit, Michigan; his sisters-in-law, Mollie Kerchner, of Delray, Florida, and Josephine Lovell of California; his longtime friend and comrade, Dorethea Breitman, also of Manhattan. He will be fondly remembered by the many people whose lives he touched with his generous spirit. A memorial meeting is planned at the Tamiment Labor Library, New York University, date to be announced.
      