
        DOBO-Francis. His wife & loving companion of fifty-six years, Bita & his son, Michael note with great sadness the passing of Francis Ferenc (Frank) Dobo Wednesday, June 3rd in his 90th year, after a protracted illness. Born Christmas Day, 1908 in Nagykanizsa, Hungary, to Dezso Dobo, M.D., and Aranka Weiss, cherished younger brother to Istvan, Frank Dobo grew to become the epitome of a 20th Century intellectual. A nephew of the celebrated rare book dealer Gabriel Wells, he was a close, lifelong friend of the renowned Hungarian Masters of candid black & white photography, Jules Halasz (a.k.a. Brassai), and Andre Kertesz, as well as noted novelists, Henry Miller, Celine and Raymond Queneau. Frank shared their halcyon days in early 1930's Paris and, as the latter's U.S. agent, he was instrumental in bringing Queneau's novels, including his celebrated ''Zazi Dans Le Metro'' to readers worldwide. His unquenchable thirst for and consumption of contemporary literature led Frank to hold numerous affiliated vocations over the course of his long life. Commencing as a stringer for the Opera Mundi Press Service and Paul Winkler's Agence Literaire in Paris, he then journeyed to New York City where he utilised his multi-linguistic talents to produce and direct radio broadcasts for the Office of War Information, (O.W.I.), with John Houseman, among others. He went on to hold executive positions with King Features Syndicate, Latham Press, Arno Press, (a publishing subsidiary of The New York Times), Eugene Fodor's/Shell Travel Guides U.S.A. and with his esteemed associate and friend, Michael Gladstone, at The Publishing Center For Cultural Resources. A patron of The New York Public Library and a genuine world citizen who once professed no other god than Johann Sebastian BAch, Frank Dobo was an individual who truly personified the maxim, ''Less is More.'' His passing leaves an irreparable hole in the hearts of his family and friends, who will miss his enduring intellect and wit, and leaves the international literary community much the poorer. A memorial service is planned for the Fall.
      