
        WALLACH-James. Suddenly on June 19, 1998. Loving husband of Mary J. Wallach, devoted father of Andrew M. and Scott S. Son of Miriam & Ira D. Wallach. Brother of Sue W. Wachenheim, Kenneth L. Wallach, and Kate W. Cassidy. Chairman & Chief Executive Officer of Central National Gottesman Inc. Services on Monday, June 22 at 11:00 A.M. at Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Plains, New York. Please omit flowers. Contributions may be sent to Bates College or Prep for Prep.
        WALLACH - James G. The Trustees and staff of The New York Public Library wish to express their extreme sorrow over the sudden and untimely death of James Wallach. The Wallach family has long been a treasured presence in the life of our Library and in that of many of New York City's cultural and educational institutions. To Mr. Wallach's parents, Ira and Miriam Wallach, to his wife, Mary, to his children, Andrew and Scott, to his brother, Kenneth, and his sisters, Susan and Kate, and to his aunts, uncles, and cousins, we extend our heartfelt condolences and our most profound sympathy. Marshall Rose, Chairman Brooke Russell Astor, Honorary Chairman Andrew Heiskell and Elizabeth Rohatyn, Chairmen Emeriti Paul LeClerc, President The Staff of the Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Division of Art, Prints, and Photographs
        WALLACH-James G. The Directors, Officers and Staff of Central National-Gottesman Inc. and its Lindenmeyr Divisions sadly mourn the untimely passing of James G. Wallach, its beloved Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He will be greatly missed for his wisdom and his warm and enthusiastic leadership, and for his friendship. We extend our deepest sympathies & condolences to his wife, Mary, his children, Andrew and Scott, his parents, Miriam and Ira, his brother and sisters, Kenneth, Sue and Kate, and to all of the Wallach family. Central National-Gottesman Inc
        WALLACH-James G. The partners and staff of Moses & Singer note with great sorrow the untimely passing of our friend of many years, James G. Wallach. We extend our deepest sympathy to all the members of his family. Moses & Singer LLP
      