
        JOSEPH-Peter T. Beloved husband of Wendy Evans, and loving and adoring father of Danielle and Nicholas, died on June 25, 1998 from cancer at age 47 at home. He was Chairman and CEO of Rosecliff, Inc., a merchant banking firm, Chairman of the Board of Governing Trustees of American Ballet Theatre, board member of The Second Stage Theater and Prep for Prep, and member of the Rockefeller University Council. Leading patron and collector of studio art furniture, he was the founder and owner of The Peter Joseph Gallery which exhibited studio art furniture in New York City from 1991 to 1997. He was a graduate of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University & Yale Law School. He is survived by his loving mother, Evelyn Joseph, brother Michael Joseph of Olney, IL, sisters Mary Joseph and Eleanor Joseph both of Atlanta, GA., brother Thomas Joseph and sister Evelyn Joseph both of Cincinnati, OH., sister Margaret Joseph of Nashville, TN, sister Kathleen Reinhart of Dayton, OH as well as 13 nieces and nephews. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Sunday 2-4PM & 6-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84th Street, Monday 10AM. Interment private. In lieu of flowers contribtions may be sent to American Ballet Theatre, 890 Broadway, New York, NY 10003.
        JOSEPH-Peter T. American Ballet Theatre mourns with profound sadness, the tragic and untimely loss of Peter T. Joseph. Since joining the Board of Governing Trustees of ABT in 1991, Peter has been an extraordinary inspiration to the dancers, staff and his fellow trustees alike. With limitless energy and boundless optimism, Peter took on the challenge of leading ABT in 1993. The vigor and quality of the Company today are the result of Peter's singular personal investment and commitment and his sheer determination throughout these past five years as ABT's Chairman. His passion for both the visual and performing arts, and his affection and admiration for creative artists will long be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathies to Peter's family-his wife, Wendy Evans Joseph, children, Danielle and Nicholas, mother, Evelyn Joseph, and sisters and brothers, Michael, Thomas, Evelyn, Eleanor, and Margaret Joseph, Mary Nyod and Kathleen Reinhart; and to the entire staff of Rosecliff Inc. Hamilton E. James, Chairman Anne M. Tatlock, President Kevin McKenzie, Artistic Director Michael M. Kaiser Executive Director
        JOSEPH-Peter T. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Second Stage Theatre mourn the death of fellow Trustee, loyal friend and longtime advisor, Peter T. Joseph. Peter served as the theatre's first attorney and nurtured the organization with his guidance and generosity. His commitment to the arts was an inspiration to us all. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Wendy Evans Joseph, our dear friend and fellow Trustee, and to their children, Danielle and Nicholas.
        JOSEPH-Peter T. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the passing of Peter T. Joseph, Chairman & CEO of Rosecliff, Inc. Peter was a former associate, as well as a beloved friend and client. We extend our deepest sympathies and condolences to his wife, Wendy, their two children, Danielle and Nicholas, and to all the other members of his family.
        JOSEPH-Peter. A wonderful man, taken too soon. Our deepest condolences to Wendy, Danielle and Nicholas. Raymond and Connie Peters
      