
        SHAVITZ-Selma. Of New York, formerly of Teaneck, New Jersey. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Sondra Weinberg and Bernard. Mother-in-law of Harriet Shavitz. Dear sister of Rhea Fink & Corinne Leshnower. Loving grandmother of Jeffrey and Gregg. Great grandmother of Jennifer. Services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC, today, 12:30PM. The shiva period will be observed at the residence, 11 East 86th Street, NYC, Thursday only.
        SHAVITZ-Selma. The Board, staff and members of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged note with profound sadness the death of our beloved mentor, friend, colleague and supporter, Selma Shavitz. Mrs. Shavitz was a JASA Trustee for 22 years, assuming key leadership roles including Vice President and Secretary. Until her last days she continued to be a guiding force in JASA's annual fund raising events and was instrumental in raising millions of dollars for the agency. However, to many of our senior center members, Selma Shavitz was JASA. Each year she directed JASA's efforts to honor the more than 900 elderly volunteers who assist in all aspects of our programs and services. Her concern for these volunteers, her respect for their accomplishments, and her dedication to their work, was apparent to all who had the privilege of working with her. This past March the JASA Board, upon the recommendation of participants from JASA's 26 senior centers, voted to establish the Selma Shavitz Volunteer Award which will be presented annually to the JASA senior center which best exemplifies her commitment to volunteerism. We will miss her. We offer our sincere condolences to her children, Bernard Shavitz and Sandra Weinberg, and to her grandchildren. Steven M. Jacobson, Chairman Marilyn F. Friedman, President David J. Stern, Executive V.P.
        SHAVITZ-Selma. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation note with deep sorrow the death of a beloved member of our community, Selma Shavitz. She inspired generations of supporters through her leadership in our Women's Campaign, as long-time chair of the Thrift Shop, as president of the Jewish Guild for the Blind, and for a lifetime of commitment to the UJA-Federation mission. Following in her father's footsteps as a Jewish communal leader, she passed on his legacy to her children and grandchildren. She will always be remembered, and revered, for her selfless devotion to the less fortunate among us. All who knew her were enriched by her loving kindness and her boundless love of life. She exemplified the traditional blessing: ''A woman of valor, who can find? Her price is far above rubies.'' We extend our sympathy to her son and daughter-in-law Bernard and Harriet Shavitz; daughter Sandra Weinberg; grandchildren Jeffrey and Jill and Greg and Elizabeth; great-granddaughter Jennifer; sisters Rhea and Corinne; and all the members of the family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair Louise B. Greilsheimer, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        SHAVITZ-Selma. The Jewish Braille Institute of America mourns the passing of our deeply loved and much admired President, Selma Shavitz. For more than four decades she embraced the aspirations of the Jewish blind, visually impaired and reading disabled bringing their needs to the forefront of the community. A master multi-lingual braillist she inspired the talents of many who joined her in her work. Her international travels as president of the Institute reassured many who live in great need. For her family who have always shared her gifts of mind and spirit, we pray that the pain of their loss will ease in time and only good and loving memories endure. Barbara B. Friedman, Vice Pres., Dr. Jane Evans, Honorary Pres., Gerald M. Kass, Exec. Vice Pres., and The Board of Trustees.
        SHAVITZ-Selma. The Board and staff of W.O. Thrift Shop deeply mourn the passing of Selma Shavitz, beloved Board member and long time Chair. Her wisdom, guidance and wit were an inspiration to all who knew her. Our dear friend Selma will be greatly missed. Jill Levine Rosen, Chair Dini Bigajer, Director on behalf of the W.O. Thrift Shop Board, UJA-Federation of New York
        SHAVITZ-Selma. New York Insight Meditation Center extends our metta to Sandra Weinberg, our co-founder and her family. May they all feel blessed in knowing that the great merit of Selma's life has been and will be for the benefit of all people.
        SHAVITZ-Selma Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to the family. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, President
      