
        BARTLETT-Robert A. Age 80. Died June 27, 1998, at his home in Mt. Gilead, Murrells Inlet, SC, after a long illness. Mr. Bartlett was predeceased by his wife, Lilla Rodda Bartlett, and one sister, Jane Heisinger. R.A. Bartlett, Board Chairman and CEO of the F.A. Bartlett Tree Expert Company of Stamford, CT, was born in Stamford, CT, on October 11, 1917. He was the son of the late Francis A. and Myrtle K. Bartlett. Following graduation from the Irving School, Tarrytown, NY, he attended the New York State College of Forestry at Syracuse University, later transferring to the business school at Columbia University. He joined the family business in 1937 and, a year later, was instrumental in coordinating efforts to restore damaged landscapes in the aftermath of the great 1938 hurricane. Mr. Bartlett enlisted in the U.S. Army in June 1941, six months before Pearl Harbor, becoming a specialist in military equipment and supplies as well as a graduate of the military intelligence school. He saw action in the South Pacific, including the New Guinea and Philippines campaigns. He rose to the rank of staff sergeant and was awarded the Soldier's Medal for Bravery for risking his life to rescue a pilot from a burning aircraft. Resuming his career with the Bartlett Company, he was successively named Vice President, a director, Executive Vice President, President, Vice Chairman and, in 1975, Chairman and CEO. A lifelong arborist, he counted among his most rewarding accomplishments the establishing of two major arboreta, the Bartlett Arboretum of the State of Connecticut in Stamford and the working arboretum located on the property of the Bartlett Tree Research Laboratories and Experimental Grounds in Charlotte, NC. He received a Special Achievement Award from the National Arbor Day Foundation, the Conservation Medal of the DAR, the Founder's Plaque of the Mountain Lake Vegetation Management Council, 1991 Man of the Year Award of Arbor Age Magazine and the 1997 Award of Merit of the National Arborist Association. Mr. Bartlett is survived by his four children, Rev. Jane Bartlett of Murrells Inlet, SC; Robert A., Jr., of Stamford; Elizabeth Hubbard of Stedman, NC; and Nancy Cook of Charlotte; and six grandchildren. Memorials may be made to Hospice of Georgetown, South Carolina, P.O. Box 1436, Georgetown, SC 29442. Services will be Wednesday, July 1, 1998, at North Stamford Congregational Church, 11 A.M. in Stamford, CT. Visitation will be 6-8 PM, Tuesday at Bouton & Reynolds Funeral Home in Stamford, CT.
      