
        NATHANS-Meyer W. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion express profound sorrow upon the death of Meyer W. Nathans. Mike's extraordinary generosity enabled the College-Institute to flourish as a center of Jewish learning. His annual benefaction enabled a gifted student on the New York campus to become The Meyer W. Nathans Rabbinic Scholar; these recipients will continue to reap the distinctive advantages that Mike's generosity offered them. Through his warmth, humor and devotion he served as a personal model for the HUC family and for the larger Jewish community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his son Stuart and family and his cherished friend Rubelle Schafler. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman President Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk Chancellor Rabbi Norman J. Cohen Provost Rabbi Aaron Panken Dean Designate Burton Lehman, Chair Board of Governors
        NATHANS-Meyer W. The Board of Trustees of YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities is deeply saddened by the passing of Meyer Nathans. A longtime supporter of people with developmental disabilities, his generosity and commitment will serve as a lasting legacy. In honor of his contributions, we will be establishing the Meyer W. Nathans Camp and Family Services. Marcella Fava, Chairman Dr. Thomas-Robert Ames and Dr. Paul H. Levitz, Vice-Chairmen Board of Trustees Dr. Joel M. Levy, CEO Dr. Philip H. Levy, COO YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities
        NORTON-William S. With deep affection, the Norton, Naude, Waters and Schultz families honor the memory of William S. Norton who died on Sunday June 21. A lifelong physician by profession and by avocation he is warmly remembered by his patients, associates and friends. Born in New York in 1911, he was educated at Allen Stevenson, Choate, Yale and Columbia Medical School. He served as Chief of Staff and President of the Medical Board at St. Lukes Hospital where he was an attending physician from 1947-1971. Deeply committed to the New York community he was a trustee of the Allen Stevenson School and a member and Elder of the Brick Presbyterian Church. He was also a trustee of the Choate School and served as its Medical Director between 1971 and 1976. A founding member of the Connecticut Hospice, he worked devotedly and tirelessly with Hospice patients and caregivers until last year. A memorial service will be held on July 1 at 11am at the First Congregational Church in Guilford CT. For information C/O Guilford Funeral Home, 115 Church Street, Guilford, CT 203-453-3558. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions to the Department of Medicine, St. Luke's Roosevelt.
        NORTON-William S., MD. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of William S. Norton, MD. He was a beloved and revered leader of our Department of Medicine and a Member of the Board of Trustees who upheld our finest traditions of medical excellence. To his wife Priscilla Waters Norton and his entire family, we offer our sincere condolences. Lawrence S. Huntington Chairman of the Board Robert G. Newman, MD Acting President Wendy Z. Goldstein Chief Operating Officer Carlton Boxhill, MD President of the Medical Board
      