
        ZOCH-Frank Peter III. Died suddenly of a heart attack on June 22, 1998 in San Antonio, Texas. Peter was born in Corpus Christi, Texas, June 3, 1942. Peter was preceded in death by his parents. Peter's father, Frank Peter Zoch, Jr., of Corpus Christi, Texas, was cofounder of Sedco Oil Company, a world wide oil drilling company which was later merged into Schlumberger Ltd. Peter's mother, Elizabeth Kercheville Zoch, a native of San Antonio, was very active in civic and charitable organizations in Corpus Christi. Peter graduated from the Tabor Academy in Marion, Mass. and attended the University of Texas. Peter began his business career in New York City in investment banking. He was a co-founder and President of Netter International, a diversified holding company. He remained in New York for 27 years and returned to live in the hill country of Texas in 1991. After returning, Peter divided his time between his home at Cedar Lake Ranch and Prade Ranch in Mountain Home, Texas & San Antonio, Texas. After returning to Texas, he continued his business and investment activities and recently founded Microstone Automated Building Systems, L.L.C. Peter is survived by his wife of 29 years, Marion (Mimi) Chandler Zoch; his children, Laura Frances Zoch, Rhonda Zoch Given, Frank Peter Zoch, IV, Patricia Zoch Smith, Elizabeth Chandler Zoch and Frank Morgan Zoch; his sons-in-law, Christopher Lee Given and Ryan Scott Smith; his grandchild, Grace Faye Given; his sisters, Frances Zoch Fulton and Patricia Zoch Ferguson; a brother - in - law, Joseph R. Fulton; and his sister-inlaw, Joyce Chandler King and her husband, Wayne Hamilton King, and his sister-in-law, Judy Kimble Chandler. Peter was involved in many civic organizations and charitable organizations, including The Young Presidents Organization, The World President's Organization; he was a member of the board of the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Hospital of Houston, Texas; the Board of Schreiner, College, Kerville, Texas; and the Board of the Berkshire School, Sheffield, Massachusetts. He was a former director of the Boston Celtics. He was a member of the Clove Valley Rod & Gun Club, New York; the Racquet Club of New York City, San Antonio Country Club, the Argyle Club, the Order of the Alamo, and Riverhill Country Club in Kerrville. He was a member of the First United Methodist Church in Kerville, Texas. Visitation will be at Grimes Funeral Home, 400 Earl Garrett, Kerrville, Texas, beginning at 4:00 P.M. on June 24, 1998. Services will be held at the First United Methodist Church at 11:00 A.M., on June 26, 1998. Interment will follow the ceremony at Sunset Cemetery in Mountain Home, Texas. Pallbearers are: Robert P. Ross, Walter A. Carey, Stephen Karp, David Edwards, Gus T. Canales & Stephen J. Kleberg. Honorary Pallbearers are: Richard M. Kleberg, III, Bronson VanWyck, Jean Pierre Bigotte, T. Gibbs Kane, Hank Grant, Rick Perry, Henry Parrish, Robert Donnalley, Ronald Strackbein, Barrett Townsend, Victor Neuhaus, Ahmed Hashmi, Michael Hughes, Steven Ables, Gary W. Smith, Richard F. Rogers, William Carl, Edward Hartline, Alan Lucke, Paul Dupee, David Dunn & Julian Pizana. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Hospital of Houston, the Winston School, San Antonio, a school for children with learning differences; or the Berkshire School of Sheffield, Massachusetts. For further information Peter Loring, 1101 McCullough, San Antonio, Texas, 210-227-8221.
      