
        MARMON-Betty. (nee Lewis) Of East Hampton, NY, on June 22, 1998. Beloved wife of Bradley S. Marmon. Devoted mother of Stephen J. Marmon of Bethesda, Md; Nan Sabel of Waltham, Mass.; and Elise Raymond of East Hampton. Adored grandmother of Matthew and Zachary Sabel; Elizabeth Marmon and Annabelle Raymond. Cherished twin sister of Grace Griffenberg of Riverdale, NY. Dear mother-in-law of Betty J. Marmon of Bethesda, Md. Loving aunt of Susan Trovati and Stuart Griffen. Funeral services at 1 p.m. Wednesday, June 24, at the Jewish Center of the Hamptons. Memorial contributions may be made to the Education Building of the Jewish Center, 44 Woods Lane, East Hampton, NY 11937.
        MARMON-Betty ''Our Twoma''. Aunt Betty was a Renaissance woman. She cherished her family, friends and home, yet was a leader in building a more enriching life for all people in East Hampton. She shared her house with us for many wonderful summers and holidays and helped to create and then preside at the Jewish Center of the Hamptons. Even though she was an identical twin, she was truly one of a kind. We will always miss her and never forget her. East Hampton will not be the same without her. Susan Trovati, Stuart Griffen Vince, Robyn and Joslyn Trovati
        MARMON-Betty L. The clergy, officers, trustees and congregants of The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourn with deep and abiding sympathy our esteemed and dedicated President, Betty L. Marmon. She served as a devoted leader through much of the history of The Jewish Center. Betty enriched our congregation with her caring, intelligence, thoughtfulness, tireless dedication and sweetness. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Bradley and her entire family. Services, Wednesday, 1 P.M., at The Jewish Center of the Hamptons, 44 Woods Lane, Easthampton, New York 11927. David J. Gelfand, Rabbi Debra Stein-Davidson, Cantor Morris L. Kramer, Chairman of the Board Morton Olshan and Joseph Cullman, III, Co-Chairs, Honorary Board
      