
        KRAUS-Anne. Devoted wife of the late Walter. Beloved mother of Lawrence and Lori and the late Melvin. Adored grandmother of Mark, and Jason. Services Thursday 11:30AM at Schwartz Brothers Jeffer Memorial, Queens Blvd and 76th Road, Forest Hills.
        KRAUS-Anne. The Board of Directors, staff, participants and friends of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children sadly express their sorrow at the passing away of Mrs. Anne Kraus, who for years has provided leadership and support to the Association. Having served as President, Mrs. Kraus then assumed the position of Director of General Services, during which time she became known to every one connected to the Association as an aggressive and principled advocate in the struggle to provide richer, more productive lives for people with mental retardation and developmental disabilities. Mrs. Kraus, whose initial relationship was tied to her late son Melvin, became an essential adjunct to the Association. She will be deeply mourned and greatly missed. The Funeral will be held at Schwartz Brothers Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd, Queens, NY, on Thursday, June 4 at 11:30 AM. Mrs. Kraus, whose husband Walter died recently, is survived by her son Lawrence, her daughter-in-law Lori, & two grandchildren Mark & Jason. ''We will miss you.''
        KRAUS-Anne. The Board members of the New York League of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children mourns the passing of one of its esteemed members, Anne Kraus. She was a member of the New York City Association for the Help of Retarded Children and the first woman President elected in 1967. Anne also served as the Director of General Services. She was instrumental in the founding of the Melvin W. Kraus Residence, named in honor of her son Melvin. Her caring and generosity will be missed by the New York League. Our deepest sympathy to her surviving son Lawrence. Caroline Hirsch, President Carol Roaman, Vice President Joni Rosenbaum, Vice President Elaine Krauss, Vice President
      