
        VOLCKER-Barbara. Of NYC on June 14th, 1998, after a prolonged illness. Beloved wife of Paul. Devoted mother of Janice Zima and James Volcker. Daughter of Edna Bahnson. Also survived by her brother William F. Bahnson and three grandchildren. Services private. Memorial contributions may be made to the Barbara Volcker Center for Women and Rheumatic Disease, 523 East 70th Street, New York, New York 10021.
        VOLCKER-Barbara. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Barbara Volcker. Mrs. Volcker was a long-time patient and an outstanding friend of the Hospital, whose dedication to helping others was exemplified by the Volckers' generosity in founding The Barbara Volcker Center for Women and Rheumatic Disease at HSS. Her enjoyment of life serves as a wonderful example for all people living with chronic illness. She will be greatly missed by all fortunate enough to have known her. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Paul, children Janice and James, and to her entire family. Richard L. Menschel Chairman Aldo Papone Co-Chariman Board of Trustees John R. Ahearn John R. Reynolds Co-Chief Executive Officers Russell F. Warren, MD Surgeon-in-Chief Stephen A. Paget, MD Physician-in-Chief
        VOLCKER-Barbara. The staff of the Barbara Volcker Center for Women and Rheumatic Diseases at the Hospital for Special Surgery mourns the passing of our benefactor and friend. Mrs. Volcker's ability to live a full life, with wit and love, despite adversity, and her broad vision, stand as an inspiration to us all. It was a privilege to have known her. We extend our sympathies to her husband, children and grandchildren. Michael D. Lockshin, MD Director, Barbara Volcker Center
        VOLCKER-Barbara. The Members of the Board of Governors of the New York Chapter of The Arthritis Foundation extend their heartfelt condolences to the family of Paul A. Volcker on the passing of his beloved wife, Barbara. David C. Clapp, Chair Steven B. Abramson, M.D., Sr. Vice Chair. James B. McEvoy, Sr. Vice Chair. Ross Alfieri, Pres.
        VOLCKER-Barbara. We extend heartfelt condolences to Paul, her husband, and to Janice and James, her children, on the passing of Barbara Volcker. She will be deeply missed by us and all who knew her. Jane and Michael Lockshin,
      