
        ROSENTHAL-Richard L. Of Stamford, CT. Loving husband of Hinda Gould Rosenthal. Devoted father of Jamie Wolf and Rick Rosenthal. Father-in-law of David Wolf & Nancy Stephens Rosenthal. Adoring grandfather of Kate Wolf, Noah, Mick and Jane Rosenthal. Brother of Herbert C. Rosenthal of Santa Barbara, Ca. Died at home on June 13. Mr. Rosenthal was chairman of Assets Administration and Management, and chairman of the Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Foundation which encourages achievement and excellence in the arts, social sciences and medicine. He was also Chairman of the Stamford Center for the Arts. He was the Founder and CEO of Citizens Utilities and President of Utilities and Industries Corporation. His vitality and acumen were an inspiration to the many whose lives he touched. His loyalty, encouragement and devotion to his friends and family will continue to enrich our lives. Services will be private. A memorial to celebrate his life will be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Foundation.
        ROSENTHAL-Richard L., Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons, and the Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine are saddened by the passing of Richard L. Rosenthal, a progressive and visionary philanthropist. The Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Foundation sought out excellence and talent, both newly emerging and already established, in areas of medicine, the arts and business. Richard was early to recognize the important place that complementary and alternative medicine could have in U.S. health care. He sought for himself and his friends reliable information, and having difficulty finding such information, stimulated Columbia to set up a center to bring the rigors of science to research in this area and to develop authoritative information for the public in complementary and alternative medicine. By establishing the first such center at a major U.S. medical school, he provided pioneering leadership in what is now a burgeoning field. His vision and pioneering spirit will be missed. We extend our deepest condolences to Hinda, Jaime, Rick and the entire Rosenthal family. Herbert Pardes, M.D., VP & Dean Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons Fredi Kronenberg, Ph.D., Director The Richard & Hinda Rosethal Center for Complementary & Alternative Medicine Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons
        ROSENTHAL-Richard L. It is with great sadness that the Leonard N. Stern School of Business at New York University notes the passing of a long-time friend, notable alumnus and generous supporter, Richard L. Rosenthal. Having earned his Bachelor's Degree and graduating first in his class and Summa Cum Laude in 1936 from the School of Commerce, Accounts and Finance, now the Leonard N. Stern School of Business, Richard went on to receive national accolades for his innovations in corporate finance and investments. He was dedicated to recognizing excellence in others and supporting financial innovation, and will be greatly missed. On behalf of the Stern School of Business, its Board of Overseers and alumni, we express our deepest sympathies to the Rosenthal family. George Daly, Dean Henry Kaufman, Chairman, Board of Overseers
        ROSENTHAL-Richard. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the death of Richard Rosenthal who shared with Hinda an affection, regard and generosity for our Theater that made possible the publication of the Lincoln Center Theater Review. We extend our sympathy to Hinda and the family. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman Joan Straus Cullman and Andrew Heiskell, Vice Chairmen John Chalsty, President
      