
        SPINGARN-Clifford L., M.D. It is with great sorrow that the Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our highly esteemed and beloved colleague. Dr. Spingarn joined the staff in 1937, and for over 60 years distinguished himself as teacher and clinician. Devoted to his patients as individuals whom he cared for with expertise and compassion and a conscientious mentor who touched the lives of generations of young students and physicians, he was respected by his peers and loved by his patients. He will be remembered as a dedicated physician, teacher and friend. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Wayne S. Fuchs, M.D., President Avi Barbasch, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, Treasurer
        SPINGARN-Clifford L., M.D. On June 20, 1998. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted father of John and Alexandra. Loving grandfather of Noah, Jason, Sierra, Katherine and Joseph. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., 7-9 PM, Monday, June 22, with service Tuesday, 11:30 AM. Interment private. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of your choice.
        SPINGARN-Dr. Clifford L. The faculty and staff of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the loss of our distinguished colleague, Dr. Clifford L. Spingarn. Dr. Spingarn began his association with Mount Sinai as an intern in 1937 and later developed expertise in tropical disease while serving in the Navy during World War II. He went on to lead the Parasitology Laboratory at Mount Sinai and served as Chief of the Parasitology Clinic from 1947-1979. He performed pioneering research in the diagnosis of amebic and other parasitic diseases. Among his honors and leadership positions were Phi Beta Kappa, Alpha Omega Alpha, and President of the New York Chapter of the American Society of Tropical Diseases. Most importantly, Dr. Spingarn had an abiding commitment to general internal medicine and championed the establishment of the Clifford L. Spingarn, MD Fellowship in Primary Care which recently became the Clifford L. Spingarn, MD Professorship in Internal Medicine (Primary Care). This Chair will be an enduring memorial to Spingarn. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Eleanor, his son John, his daughter Alexandra, and to his grandchildren. Barry S. Coller, M.D. Chairman Department of Medicine
        SPINGARN-Clifford L., M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Clifford L. Spingarn, M.D., who was associated with Mount Sinai for more than five decades, and in whose honor the Clifford L. Spingarn, M.D. Endowed Professorship in Medicine (Primary Care) was established by his friends, patients and the Tebil Foundation. Beloved for his compassion, respected for his clinical skills and admired for his gift for teaching, Dr. Spingarn will be fondly remembered by all who knew him and his loss will be keenly felt. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Eleanor, his daughter, Alexandra, his son, John, and his grandchildren, as well as to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Alan L. Schiller, M.D., President, Medical Board
        SPINGARN-Clifford L., M.D., at home on Saturday, June 20th, 1998. The Board of Directors and staff of the Physicians' Relief Fund and its Merksamer Scholarship Fund mourn the death of its revered Secretary/Treasurer, Dr. Clifford L. Spingarn. A compassionate physician, Dr. Spingarn followed in the footsteps of his late father, Dr. Alexander Spingarn, and his cousin, Joel E. Spingarn, a founder of the NAACP. He continued in the active practice of medicine until the end of his life. His leadership and foresight over the years were instrumental in reshaping the Physicians' Relief Fund by the establishment of the Merksamer Scholarship Fund. His wise counsel will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Eleanor, a life-long partner in the truest sense of the word, his children, John and Alexandra, and to his grandchildren. Virginia Kanick, M.D., President Physicians' Relief Fund/ Merksamer Scholarship Fund
        SPINGARN-Clifford, M.D. The Mount Sinai Association of the Attending Staff mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Clifford Spingarn. Dr. Spingarn was on our staff for more than 40 years and was involved in many activities in the wider medical community. In the County Medical Society, he was a pioneer in developing a program for malpractice insurance. He was vigorously involved in the total care of his patients and will be remembered as a dedicated practitioner of Medicine. We extend our sympathy to his wife Eleanor and to the entire family. Peter H. Rubin, M.D., President Lynda Mandell, M.D., Secretary Amy J. Weinstein, Administrator
        SPINGARN-Clifford L., M.D. The New York County Medical Society mourns the passing of Dr. Spingarn, President 1981-1982 and recipient of its 1986 Distinguished Service Award. A member since 1946, he served as chair of numerous committees, longtime delegate to the Medical Society of the State of New York, and at the time of his death, co-chair of the Society's Managed Care Task Force. The son of distinguished physician, Alexander Spingarn, and cousin of Joel Spingarn, a founder of the NAACP, Dr. Spingarn was active in practice until his final illness. Tireless in his care of patients and service to his profession, he and his wife, Eleanor, exemplified the best of the medical profession.
        SPINGARN-Clifford. We mourn the passing of Dr. Clifford Spingarn, husband of our former President Ellie Spingarn. It was our privilege to know him. New York County Medical Society Auxiliary
      