
        O'DWYER-Paul. The officers and members of The Irish Institute of New York are profoundly saddened by the passing of our Founder, former President and Chairman of the Board of Trustees. Your extraordinary pride in your Irish heritage, your vision, enterprise, goodwill, dignity and generosity of spirit have left an enduring legacy. The vast number of artistic and historic projects benefitting from your beloved Institute, on both sides of the Atlantic, for the past 50 years are a fitting memorial to your exemplary life, none more so than the last work of scholarship to which you gave your whole hearted commitment, The New York Irish. Your longtime support for research on the history of the Irish in your adopted city helped make the recent publication of this book possible. We will always miss you and never forget your fighting spirit and enormous contribution to our Institute and to Human Rights. Kevin Morrissey, Pres.
        O'DWYER-Paul. The members, associates and staff of our law firm were deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and colleague with whom we were associated for more than fifty years-both in labor and political issues of our time. Paul was a constant conscience reminding us of all our obligations to the dispossessed, the homeless & others less fortunate than we. He inspired several generations to follow his expample, particularly when he led the march at the 1968 Democratic Party Convention protesting Mayor Daley's use of police to lock up the Anti-Vietnam Demonstrators. He was an exemplar of the statement made by Mr. Justice Holmes that; ''It is required of a man that he should share the passion and action of his time at peril of being judged not to have lived''. Sipser, Weinstock, Harper & Dorn
        O'DWYER-Paul. The directors of the Charles Lawrence Keith and Clara Miller Foundation are profoundly saddened by the passing of our founding president, Paul O'Dwyer. A singular and moral force in politics, the law and civic life both here and abroad, Paul O'Dwyer devoted his long and illustrious life to selflessly serving the causes of freedom, justice and peace. We offer our condolences to his family, to those whose lives were touched or changed by him, and to the thousands of individuals and organizations who carry on Paul O'Dwyer's legacy.
        O'DWYER-Paul. The Center for Constitutional Rights and its new partner, The National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee, honor Paul. NECLC remembers his rallying traditional politicians to the civil rights struggles in the south and forthright denunciation of Joe McCarthy era witch hunts. He enlisted CCR to the support of people persecuted in the U.S. for advocacy of Irish freedom. Ron Daniels, CCR Exec Dir. Edith Tiger and Peter Weiss CCR Board Members
        O'DWYER-Paul. ''Out of Ireland have we come. Great hatred, little room, Maimed us at the start. I carry from my mother's womb A fanatic heart.''-William Butler Yeats. Our world is a better place for your having been among us. The Famine Ship Foundation Dick Spring, T.D., Honorary Chairman Edward J. Cleary Michael C. Finnegan Ronald F. Harnisch, American Co-Chairman
        O'DWYER-Paul. Dear mentor and true friend. You lived your life as an advocate for men, women, and children who hungered for justice. You now take your place in history as one of the great Americans of the Twentieth Century. We will miss you deeply. Carole and Kevin O'Sullivan The O'Sullivan Children Foundation
        O'DWYER-Paul. The National Board and members of the Irish American Unity Conference mourn the passing of a great founding member. Your sense of justice, love of freedom and passion for Ireland inspired us all. Kevin Barry
        O'DWYER-Paul. A citizen, a patriot, a humanist, an activist, who taught those whose lives he touched to be principled and passionate every day and to share our good fortune with everyone. Barbara Handman, V.P. People For the American Way.
      