
        ROSENBLATT - Emanuel G. Passed away June 8, 1998. He was the beloved husband of the late Claire Rosenblatt. Adored brother of Bashie Selevan. Cherished father of Francine Mushkin, Linda R. Kaminow, and Lois Rosenblatt. Beloved grandfather of Joanne (David) Shurgin, Nancy (Allen) Robinson, the late Donna Mushkin, & Louis R. (Wendy) Kaminow, and great-grandfather of Lauren, Paige, Cody, Jensen, Madison and Clayton, devoted nieces and nephews and a host of friends whom will mourn his passing. Mr. Rosenblatt was chairman and president of Master Trousers, founder and major benefactor of Israel Cancer Association USA, philanthropist and counselor to family and friends. He will be sadly missed by many. He was active in charities in Palm Beach and New York. A member of Temple Emanu-El in Palm Beach. Funeral service in Florida on Wednesday and 1:30 PM Thursday, June 11, at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY. Contributions to cancer research in his memory may be sent to ICA/USA, 230 Royal Palm Way, Palm Beach, FL 33480.
        ROSENBLATT-Emanuel G. Of Palm Beach, Florida. The Board of Directors of Israel Cancer Association USA mourns the loss of its founder, leader, friend, and major philanthropist. He lavished his love on building the organization and infused it with his passionate support of cancer research in Israel. Sincere condolences to daughters, Francine Mushkin, Linda R. Kaminow, and Lois Rosenblatt; to sister Bashie Selevan; to grandchildren and great grandchildren. Suzy Eban, Pres, ICA S. David Leibowitt, Board Chair Arnold J. Hoffman, Chr-Exec Com
        ROSENBLATT-Emanuel G. (Papa). Loving father to Francine Mushkin. Loving grandfather to JoAnne & David Shurgin. Loving great grandfather to Cody Ross. You will be in our hearts and thoughts forever. May you rest in peace for eternity, along with your beloved soulmate, best friend, and our much missed mother and grandmother Claire and your devoted granddaughter Donna. You truly were a man of honor and will be missed. All our love forever. Fran, JoAnne, David and Cody
        ROSENBLATT-Emanuel G. Of Palm Beach, FL. The officers and Board of Directors of the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County express condolences to the family of Emanuel G. Rosenblatt. He was a founder and esteemed mentor of Israel Cancer Association U.S.A. He was active in promoting and assisting charities in New York, Palm Beach and Israel. He was predeceased by his beloved wife, Claire.
        ROSENBLATT-Emanuel G. You were a second father to me, as well as a friend, adviser and ''struggling'' golf partner. I join the family and many friends who will miss you and mourn you. Al Mushkin
      