
        KAMPEL-Clarisse B. On June 7, 1998. Adored wife of Daniel S. Kampel. Beloved aunt of John B. Ritter and Ernestine Clark, and stepmother of Stacie Soloway. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, June 8, at 7-9 PM, with services Tuesday, 10 AM. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions in her memory to The Quan Fellowship at Harvard Medical School.
        KAMPEL-Clarisse B. The Board of Directors and grantees of The Clarisse B. Kampel Foundation deeply regret the passing of its founder and mentor, Clarisse Kampel. Established in 1986 to help promote and assist the significant vocal, piano and violin soloist in pursuit of a professional career, the Foundation also is encouraged to make available yearly scholarships to the Richard Tucker Annual Auditions, and grants to Opera Orchestra of New York, the Juilliard School, the Manhattan School of Music, and the Mannes School of Music. We will miss her guiding light, and her concern and passion for the need of the performing arts. Carl Battaglia, Executive Director The Clarisse B. Kampel Foundation
        KAMPEL-Clarisse. The Board of Directors of The Richard Tucker Music Foundation express their deepest regret on the passing of Board Member, Mrs. Clarisse Kampel. Mrs. Kampel was a devoted sponsor for the arts and supported the Tucker Foundation tremendously, not only in her capacity as a Board Member, but by sponsoring a study grant from the Foundation which was annually awarded to a promising young opera singer. Her contribution to the world of opera was most heartily felt and the Foundation deeply mourns her loss. Barry Tucker, President Jeffrey S. Tabak, Chairman
        KAMPEL-Clarisse B. Opera Orchestra of New York notes with great sadness the death of Clarisse B. Kampel. Mrs. Kampel was a devoted and generous supporter of Opera Orchestra of New York and served on its Board with distinction for more than 15 years. Admired and respected by her fellow Directors, she will be remembered with affection and respect by Board members and many young artists she so generously helped. Our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to her husband Daniel, her nephew John Ritter and her stepdaughter Stacie Soloway.
        KAMPEL-Clarisse B. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Clarisse B. Kampel. To her family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        KAMPEL-Clarisse B. She was my friend. A gracious lady of great dignity, whose musical integrity was absolute. Her opinions were always objective and her perception enabled her to appreciate and respect the performances of others. I shall miss her. Eve Queler
        KAMPEL-Clarisse. The Isabel O'Neil Foundation for the Art of the Painted Finish is deeply saddened by the loss of Clarisse Kampel, an early student of Isabel, benefactor and the wife of the former Foundation president, Daniel S. Kampel.
      