
        SILBERSTEIN-Judy Sklar. On June 25, 1998, at 48 years of age. Beloved wife of Stanley. Devoted mother of Maren. Cherished daughter of Miriam and the late Albert Sklar. Adored sister of Suzy Simons and Howard and Jane Sklar. Devoted aunt of Justin and Jonathan Simons & Jacob & Alan Sklar. A cherished friend to many. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Friday, June 26, at 1:30 P.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to The Learning Resource Center, Columbia Grammar and Preparatory School, 5 West 93 Street, New York, New York 10025.
        SILBERSTEIN-Judy. The Board and staff of The Children's Hearing Institute wish to convey their deepest sympathies to Stanley and Maren on the passing of a most loving wife and mother. Judy was an inspiration to all of us who witnessed her untiring efforts to help bring the gift of sound to children who are deaf. There was no such word as ''NO'' in her vocabulary and her gift of laughter and joyful spirit will be forever missed. Judy, we love you, and you will never be forgotten in our hearts. Leonard Boxer, Ch. of the Board Ken Levinson, Executive Director The Children's Hearing Institute
        SILBERSTEIN-Judy. We are devastated by the sudden and untimely passing of our cherished friend, Judy. Throughout her life she was a tremendous source of strength and courage for her family and friends. We will always remember her warmth, laughter, spirit and sincerity. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her devoted husband, Stanley, to her beautiful daughter Maren and the entire Sklar and Silberstein family. Rest in peace. Shawn and Leslie Modell and the entire Modell family
        SILBERSTEIN-Judy. Our dearest Judy, you made everyone feel so special and loved. You were extraordinary. Your heart was as big as your laugh, which filled a room and sometimes even a building. We will miss your love of life, but most of all your friendship, love and your being you. Our hearts go out to Stanley, Maren, and the Sklar and Silberstein families. Love, Roberta, Ricky, Matthew and Jonathan Brudner
        SILBERSTEIN-Judy. We would like to share our heartfelt sympathies with Stanley, Maren, Miriam, Susie, Howard, Jane, Jonathan and Justin. Judy was a dear, loving, supportive, kind friend, who was always there for us and others. We love her, we will always remember her, and we will always be laughing with her. Be happy. Love, Vicki, David, Brooke, Jordan and Blake
        SILBERSTEIN-Judy. The Officers and members of the Learning Resource Center of the Columbia Grammar Preparatory School mourn the passing of Judy Silberstein, our fellow Board member. She was a treasured friend and will be sadly missed. We extend to her family our heartfelt sympathy. Mrs. Peter Kalikow, Chairperson Mrs. David Muraskin, Member The Learning Resource Center Columbia Grammar Prep School
        SILBERSTEIN-Judy. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Judy Silberstein and extend to her bereaved husband Stanley and the members of her family our sincere condolences. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary
        SILBERSTEIN - Judy. A best friend, a most wonderful person, You were a bright spot in all of our lives. We will miss you terribly. We will look after Maren and Stanley. Our heartfelt condolences to all the members of your family. Missy, Jerry, Jourdann and Justin Lubliner
        SILBERSTEIN-Judy. We love you and will never forget you. Deepest sympathies to Stanley and Maren on your great loss. Jane and Joseph Pontarelli
      