
        SPINGARN-Clifford L., M.D. On June 20, 1998. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted father of John and Alexandra. Loving grandfather of Noah, Jason, Sierra, Katherine and Joseph. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., 7-9 PM, Monday, June 22, with service Tuesday, 11:30 AM. Interment private. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of your choice.
        SPINGARN-Clifford, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Clifford Spingarn, M.D., who served with great distinction on the staff of Beth Israel's North Division for decades. Dr. Spingarn distinguished himself in many arenas at the North Division, particularly in the clinical practice of medicine and in his leadership role as Chairman of Continuing Medical Education. He was a past recipient of numerous honors, including the Wholeness of Life Award and the H. Mason Hicks Award. To his wife, Ellie, his son John and daughter Alexandra, the entire Spingarn family and all his loved ones, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Boards of Trustees CHP and BIMC Robert G. Newman, M.D., President and CEO, CHP Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President and CEO, BIMC Donald W. Hoskins, M.D., Chief Medical Officer, BIMC
        SPINGARN-Clifford, M.D. The entire medical community of Beth Israel Medical Center joins with our colleagues in the Department of Medicine in noting the passing of Clifford Spingarn, M.D., our beloved friend who served with great distinction on the staff of the North Division. Clifford will forever be remembered for his extraordinary commitment to quality medical care and for his dedication to the continuing education of physicians. To his wife Ellie, his family and friends our deepest sympathies. Jerome S. Breslaw, M.D., President, Medical Board James Vogel, M.D., Chairman, North Division Executive Committee Stephen G. Baum, M.D., Chairman, Dept. of Medicine Martin Feuer, M.D., Associate Chairman, Dept. of Medicine
      