
        MAYNARD-Paul. Died on June 10, 1998, age 74. Much loved by family, by colleauges and by generations of students whom he inspired to the same high standards he demanded of himself. At Yale where he studied organ and theory, he was first introduced to early music in Paul Hindemith's legendary collegium. For many years thereafter, he was the keyboard player of the New York Pro Musica, the pioneer American early music ensemble whose many tours and recordings first brought the beauty of this music to audiences world wide. His prize winning solo recordings of French and English harpsicord and organ music were among the achievements of those years. In 1964 he came to Queens College to establish and direct an early music program. Many gifted young musicians who first encountered this music in the Vocal Ensemble and instrumental Collegium under Paul Maynard have carried the vitality and richness of his performing tradition into their own professional lives. In 1970 he took a leave from the college to direct Pro Musica. Among the events of his two years as director were the International Josquin Festival of 1971 (the only American ensemble to take part) and the ''Founding Artists'' series during the Kennedy Center's opening year in which they were the sole early music ensemble. The integrity and sensitivity of his work with the talented professionals of Pro Musica were at the service of the students upon his return to the college, inspiring the student groups to peak after peak of achievement. His own solo harpsicord and organ perfomrmances of Bach as well as his work with the students reflected his intensity, humility and passionate love for all music. His musical credo is best stated in his introduction to the ''Anthology of Early Renaissance Music'' (co-authored with Noah Greenberg): ''The greatest creative musicians of all periods are on the same level and the performance of all of their music deserves the very best we can give.'' He did, and he remains a beacon for all who were fortunate enough to work with him and hear his music making. He is survived by his wife of 28 years, Drora Pershing, two sons, David of Ballston Spa, NY, and Philip of Ridley Park, PA, three step-children, Stephen Pershing of Alexandria, VA, Jonathan Pershing of Kensington, MD, and Ruth Pershing of Chapel Hill, NC, two grandchildren and three stepgrandchildren. A memorial gathering will be held on Saturday, June 27, at 3 PM, at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 W. 64 St, NYC. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Paul Maynard Scholarship Fund, Aaron Copland School of Music, Queens College, Flushing, NY 11367.
      