
        CLARKSON-Max B. E., died on June 11, 1998, while vacationing with his wife Madeleine in Italy. Six days earlier they had celebrated their fiftieth wedding anniversary in the church in London, England, where they were married. He was born on October 14, 1922, in Lenzie, Scotland, and educated at Stowe School, England, and Trinity College, Toronto. After service in the Royal Canadian Navy during World War II, he earned an M.A. in English at the University of Toronto, then joined his father's printing firm, Technical Charts, Inc. in Buffalo. In 1957 the company was reorganized as Graphic Controls Corporation, with Max as President, and became a publiclyheld company in 1965. In 1962 he was the first Canadian to be elected president of the Printing Industries Association of America. Belief in the social responsibility of the corporation led him to cofound the Allentown Community Center in 1971. In 1988, after it began to provide services to people outside Allentown, it was renamed the Clarkson Center for Human Services and is now one of the largest social agencies for job training, day care, and seniors services in Western New York State. It was one of his proudest achievements. In 1975 he brought his experience in business to academia and joined the Faculty of Management, University of Toronto, as Dean (1975-80) and continued as Professor until he retired in 1988. At the Faculty he instituted and taught pioneering courses in corporate values and business ethics. In 1989 he founded the Centre for Corporate Social Performance and Ethics at the Faculty. The Centre sponsored several international conferences on the emerging field of stakeholder theory. In 1997 The Conway Chair in Business Ethics was established and the Centre was renamed the Clarkson Centre for Business Ethics. In 1971 Mr. Clarkson cofounded the Niagara Institute, where he gave seminars to leaders from all parts of Canadian society on human values in organizational life. In 1987 he helped found the Public Policy Forum in Ottawa. Mr. Clarkson's pathbreaking research and publications in the field of business ethics won him wide acclaim and invitations to many international conferences. He was awarded honorary doctorates by St. Mary's University, Halifax, and the State University of New York at Buffalo. He is survived by his wife, Madeleine Earls, son, Max Adam, daughter Helene Edith, and son-in-law Andrew Livingston, all of Toronto; one sister, Lilian de Arias of London; and four brothers, William M.E. of Buffalo, Austin E. of Toronto, Geoffrey P. E. of Pacific Palisades, California, and Stephen H.E. of Toronto. The funeral service will be held in the chapel of Trinity College, Hoskin Avenue, Toronto, at 11 a.m., Friday, June 19, 1998. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to Clarkson Center for Human Services, 310 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, NY 14202.
      