
        O'DWYER-Paul, 90. Passed away June 24, 1998. Visitation will be at the Donovan Funeral Home, 82 S. Church St, Goshen, NY today from 6-8PM & at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave, NYC, Friday 12 noon-9pm. Funeral Mass Sat. 10 AM, the Holy Trinity Church, 82 St, NYC. Interment will be private at the convenience of the family in Ireland.
        O'DWYER-Paul. The directors of the Charles Lawrence Keith and Clara Miller Foundation are profoundly saddened by the passing of our founding president, Paul O'Dwyer. A singular and moral force in politics, the law and civic life both here and abroad, Paul O'Dwyer devoted his long and illustrious life to selflessly serving the causes of freedom, justice and peace. We offer our condolences to his family, to those whose lives were touched or changed by him, and to the thousands of individuals and organizations who carry on Paul O'Dwyer's legacy.
        O'DWYER - Paul.The National Lawyers Guild, New York City Chapter, honors the exemplary life of our former President. His early and uncompromising leadership promoting racial and economic justice at home was matched by his vision of a better world stretching from Northern Ireland to Vietnam and South Africa. His legacy is the legions he enlisted in the fight for a fair society. Our love to his family. Risa Gerson and Deborah Weich Co-Chairs Annette Dickerson, Staff
        O'DWYER-Paul. The CUNY School of Law community notes with great sadness the passing of our beloved friend and mentor, Paul O'Dwyer. His life and work are an inspiration to us. We are honored to be the recipient of the Paul O'Dwyer Human Rights Fellowship which funds students to carry on Paul's commitment to peace and justice. Our deepest sympathies to his family, especially, Pat, CUNY Law 89, and Brian, a valued member of our Board of Visitors. Kristin Booth Glen, Dean
        O'DWYER-Paul. Dear mentor and true friend. You lived your life as an advocate for men, women, and children who hungered for justice. You now take your place in history as one of the great Americans of the Twentieth Century. We will miss you deeply. Carole and Kevin O'Sullivan The O'Sullivan Children Foundation
        O'DWYER-Paul. I am so honored to have been one among scores of young activists Paul encouraged to become a lawyer. His confidence that the world can be made a better place is with me every day. Love to Pat, Eileen, Brian, Rory and his wonderful family. Franklin Siegel
        O'DWYER-Paul. Founder of the Brehon Law Society. Spokesman for the poor and oppressed. In the hearts of his friends forever. Christopher Henry
      