
        YEZZO-Richard. The Board of Directors and the entire Sound Shore Health System family celebrates the life and mourns the tragic passing of Richard Yezzo. A dynamic and devoted health care leader, Richard challenged all who knew him to live a purposeful and passionate life. His unyielding commitment to the medically underserved was matched only by his zest for life and an unrivaled ability to communicate with humor and conviction. He will be missed by the health care community and by people from all walks of life who were privileged to know him. We extend our profound sympathy to Phyllis, Nicole, Marie and his entire family. Frederic B. Powers, Chairman John R. Spicer, President Sound Shore Health System
        YEZZO-Richard. It is with a profound sense of loss, that we mourn the death of our beloved friend and colleague Richard Yezzo. He was a healthcare professional who served patients, family and staff with a great care and dedication. On behalf of the officers, staff and members of 1199 National Health and Human Sevice Employees Union, SEIU, AFL-CIO, we extend our deepest condolences to his wife Phyllis and children Nicole and Marie. His friends and all those who had occasion to share the joy he so effortlessly gave to all who loved him. Dennis Rivera, President Phyllis Harris, Secy-Treasurer 1199 National Health and Human Service Employees Union, SEIU AFL-CIO
        YEZZO-Richard. The Board of Governors, members and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association deeply regret the untimely & tragic passing of Richard Yezzo. His wonderful mix of humor & compassion will be sorely missed by everyone who had the pleasure of knowing him. He will be remembered as a dedicated leader in the healthcare community and as a strong advocate for compassionate, state - of - the - art treatment for AIDS patients. We extend our most sincere condolences to his wife Phyllis, his children, and his many friends and loved ones. Mark J. Mundy, Chairman Kenneth E. Raske, President Greater NY Hospital Association
        YEZZO-Richard. The Board of Trustees and the family of St. Clare's Hospital mourn the passing of their former president and friend. Our most sincere condolences are extended to his wife Phyllis, his children and his many friends and loved ones. Gerald W. Cunningham, Chairman James A. Rutherford, President and CEO, St. Clare's Hospital
      