
        GRASSO-Dominic John, 64. Died June 14, 1998, at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital, New Brunswick, NJ, of complications following surgery for brain cancer. He was a resident of Princeton, NJ since 1979. Mr. Grasso was born in New York City and was the son of the late Mr. John D. Grasso and Mrs. Nancy Cicarelli Grasso. He attended the New York public schools, graduating from Evander Childs High School with honors. He was a graduate of Columbia College in 1955 with a B.A., and a graduate of Columbia University School of Engineering and Applied Science with a BS in 1956. He was awarded the Charles Hayden Memorial Scholarship. While there, he was a member of Phi Kappa Psi, and the Theta Tau Engineering Society. In 1963 he received a M.S. from Columbia University. In 1957 Mr. Grasso attended Naval Officers Candidate School in Newport, RI, and retired with 26 years of both active and reserve service. Stationed both at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard and Bahrain Island in the Persian Gulf, he was attached to the Inspector of Naval Materials serving the Seventh Fleet. In 1961 he returned to the United States and remained on reserve duty, and in 1974 attained the rank of Commander, USNR. Mr. Grasso's civilian professional career after active duty in the USN began in 1961 when he joined ARCO in Philadelphia as a senior systems analyst. He later worked for Price Waterhouse & Co., Philadelphia as a Manager in Management Advisory Services. In 1969 he joined McKinsey & Co., NYC/Milan, as a Senior Manager, with engagements in the U.S. and Europe. In 1974 he was appointed Vice President & Controller for the Manufacturing Division of Melville Corp. in Nashua, NH, achieving its highest profitability to date. From 1979 until the present, Mr. Grasso worked as a consultant in strategic planning, telecommunications, and information systems for many Fortune 500 companies, government agencies, and schools of higher education. Mr. Grasso was a Registered Professional Engineer, a senior member of The American Institute of Industrial Engineers, and a member of The Wardroom Club, Boston. He was a member of Columbia University Secondary Schools Admissions Committee, and a private pilot and member of Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association. In earlier years he was an avid tennis player and skier. He is survived by his wife of 39 years, Mary Viola Grasso, a son and daughter-in-law, David J. Grasso and Lisa Hopkins Grasso of Phoenix, AZ, a daughter and son-in-law Dr. Paula Grasso Zollner and Dr. Gregory P. Zollner, two granddaughters Sarah Marie and Julia Rose Zollner, a sister Mary Saracco of New City, NY, a brother Edward J. Grasso of Chepachet, RI, and his late sister, Vincenzia Petrilli of Waterford, CT, seven nephews and 4 nieces and his childhood friend Donald Bolognese of New York City and Vermont. A funeral mass will be celebrated by Father John Zagarella on Thursday, June 18, at 11 a.m. at St. Thomas Aquinas Institute Chapel on Stockton Street at Library Place, Princeton, NJ. Burial at the Princeton Cemetery. For information, Kimble Funeral Home, 1 Hamilton Ave., Princeton. Memorial contributions may be made to the Columbia College Fund, POB 19023, NYC, 10277-0109; or The Aquinas Institute of Princeton University, Stockton Street at Library Place, Princeton, N.J., 08540.
      