
        NATHANS-Meyer W. (Mike). On June 25, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Muriel, loving father of Stuart and his wife Marlene and devoted companion of Rubelle Schafler. A generous benfactor of education for young people. His philanthropies extended from Jewish to many other educational and community causes. Service Sunday, June 28th, at 1 P.M., at Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83 St. A memorial service will be held at a later date.
        NATHANS-Meyer W. We are grieved to record the passing of our Honorary Trustee and benefactor Meyer W. Nathans. Mike has been a member of our Congregation for over 60 years and became a Trustee in 1965. He has served Rodeph Sholom with great skill and fullness of heart in many capacities. His longstanding chairmanship of our Cemetery Committee was sacred work and his devotion to the Rabbi Gunter Hirschberg Day School was exemplary. Mike was the original recipient of the annual Meyer W. Nathans Award for distinguished synagogue service. We will miss Mike's abiding loyalty, ready humor, and service to our people. Our deepest condolences to his loving companion Rubelle Schafler, his son Stuart and his wife, Marlene and all their dear ones. We are all diminished by his death. May he rest in peace. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Mark Biderman, President and the Board of Trustees of Congregation Rodeph Sholom
        NATHANS-Meyer W. The Rodeph Sholom School mourns the passing of Meyer W. Nathans, founder, long standing friend, and supporter of the Hirschberg Elementary Division of the Rodeph Sholom School. A highly respected member of our community, he left a permanent imprint on the history of our school. Mike's vision, commitment to Jewish education, and generosity will benefit the education of generations of Rodeph Sholom students to come. His spirit, humor, and friendship will be sorely missed. Rodeph Sholom School Irwin Shlachter, Headmaster David N. Roberts, Chairman, School Board of Directors
        NATHANS-Meyer W. The Board of Trustees of YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities is deeply saddened by the passing of Meyer Nathans. A longtime supporter of people with developmental disabilities, his generosity and commitment will serve as a lasting legacy. In honor of his contributions, we will be establishing the Meyer W. Nathans Camp and Family Services. Marcella Fava, Chairman Dr. Thomas-Robert Ames and Dr. Paul H. Levitz, Vice-Chairmen Board of Trustees Dr. Joel M. Levy, CEO Dr. Philip H. Levy, COO YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities
      