
        ROOSEVELT-W. Emlen. Born New York City, August 29, 1917July 4, 1998. Eldest son of John Kean Roosevelt and Elise Annette Weinacht. Widower of Arlene King Roosevelt (12/75). Survived by his daughters Lucy M. Sewall/Rubinow of Brookline, Ma., the Reverend Nancy A. Roosevelt of Rochester, NY. Granddaughters: Jennifer R. Taylor of San Francisco, Constance M. Taylor of San Francisco, Margaret Sewall/Boogaard of Somerville, Ma. Sisters: Mrs James Armentrout, Jr of Ambler, Pa. Elizabeth E. Roosevelt of Oyster Bay, NY. Brothers Alfred James Roosevelt, Marfa, Texas, Peter Kean Roosevelt, Englewood, Colorado. W. Emlen Roosevelt was a close relative of Theodore Roosevelt. His grandfather and Theodore were first cousins. He attended Phillips Academy, Andover, Ma (1931-1935). Sailing was a family hobby and Emlen had a passion for it. At the age of 12, he was probably the second youngest ever to compete in the Bermuda races and when attending Princeton University he rowed on the crew. Princeton University (1935-1938) leaving in the middle of his Junior Year despite the fact that he held second honors as a student. Two reasons for leaving, he wanted to learn banking and he wanted to go to work. He was an Economics Major. His banking career began as a messenger boy at the Central Hanover Bank & Trust Company in New York. In June 1940 he was offered and accepted a partnership in his Uncle's investment banking firm (Roosevelt & Son). After his World War II duties were concluded he returned home a Major with the Bronze Star and a Meritorious Service Citation. He worked in the credit department of the Chemical Bank & Trust Company for two years and then left to join Dick & MerleSmith, an investment partnership that had been part of the old Roosevelt & Son prior to 1933. During this period he became a Director of the National State Bank of Elizabeth, of which his cousin John Kean was president. When John died in October of 1949, his associates offered Emlen the job. He became President of the National State Bank on January 1, 1950 and served in that capacity until 1984 and subsequently Chairman of the Board. He was named to the Regional Advisors Committee of the Comptroller of the Currency (1965-1968). He was also Chairman of the Alexian Brothers Hospital in Elizabeth, NJ (1973) being the first layman to be appointed to their Board of Trustees. He is a retired Director of the E'town Gas Company (subsidiary of NUI), Elizabethtown Water Company, Hackensack Water Company, now United Water Resources and Realty Transfer. He is also a retired Director and Trustee of Diocesan Investment Trust of the Diocese of New Jersey in Trenton. His Club memberships include: Sewanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club, Oyster Bay, NY, Union Club, New York City, Manasquan River Golf Club, Manasquan, NJ. Baltusrol Golf Club, Springfield, NJ and the Down Town Association in New York City. His hobbies include Fishing, Photography, Birding and Sailing. In Lieu of Flowers Donations can be made to the following institutions of Charity of your choice: Princeton University, PO Box 46, Princeton, NJ 08544-0046, Trustees of Phillips Academy, 180 Main St, Andover, Ma 01810-4161, Youngs Memorial Cemetery Corporation, Box 720, Oyster Bay, New York 11771-0720. A Memorial Service will be held Wednesday July 15, 1998 at 11:00 AM in St John's on the Mountain Episcopal Church, Mount Harmony Road, Bernardsville. Interment Private.
      