
        SERIFF-Nathan S., M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff & employees of Lenox Hill Hospital express their profound sorrow at the loss of Nathan S. Seriff, M.D., the hospital's highly exteemed Chief of Pulmonary Medicine since 1991 and an outstanding member of our medical staff for the past twenty years. Dr. Seriff was an exceptional physician who impressed all who knew him with his intellect, his kindness and his unwavering love for the profession he practiced so brilliantly. An expert in respiratory physiology, tuberculosis and granulomatous diseases, he was deeply dedicated to sharing his knowledge with future pulmonologists and will be remembered as an extraordinarily gifted teacher. All of his patients can attest to his devotion to them and his constant concern for their well-being. A kind, soft-spoken man who savored life, Dr. Seriff will be greatly missed by those many fortunate people whose lives he touched. The entire Lenox Hill Hospital family honors the memory of this very special man and physician, who exemplified the highest standards of the medical profession and extends its deepest sympathies to his family. James S. Marcus, Chairman, Board of Trustees Gladys George, President & CEO Stephen A. Obstbaum, M.D., President, Medical Board
        SERIFF-Nathan S., M.D. The Department of Medicine at Lenox Hill Hospital sadly acknowledges the passing of Dr. Nathan S. Seriff, the longtime Chief of the Pulmonary Section within the Department. Nathan Seriff was known to be a fine gentleman, a true scholar and a sophisticated physician. He was admired by his peers and his students, and we will miss him as a man and as a doctor. We extend to his family and his loved ones our most sincere condolences. Michael S. Bruno, M.D., Dir Ira R. Hoffman, M.D., Assoc Dir Matthew H Weingarten, Asst Dir Maxine Simon, F.A.C.H.E. Admin Dir
        SERIFF-Nathan S., M.D. The Pulmonary Section of the Dept of Medicine mourns the passing of their Section Chief. An intellectual giant, we will miss him. Murray Rogers, M.D. Chief, Pulmonary Endoscopy Assoc Chief Pulmonary Medicine Lenox Hill Hospital
      