
        LEIR-Henry J. Beloved husband of the late Erna D. Leir, died on July 15, 1998 at the grand age of 98. Henry J. Leir founded businesses in many countries. He began in his homeland in Germany at a very young age. He took refuge in Luxembourg in 1932, and has been a generous contributor to the commerce and charities of that country ever since. He foresaw the coming war and came to the US in 1938 and created businesses here which became international in scope. He generously shared his financial success and acumen with business associates, his family and friends, and with a long list of charitable organizations. He is survived by his devoted sister, Hedy Wegier. Services to be held on Friday, 10:00AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        LEIR-Henry J. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourn the passing of our esteemed friend, Henry J. Leir. Through his great vision and generosity, he has and will touch the lives of generations of students, scholars and researchers at Tel Aviv University. Among the enduring reminders of his dedication and committment to the arts and scholarship are the Henry J. Leir Fund, created by the American Friends of Tel Aviv University Fund for Higher Education, at the Yolanda and David Katz Faculty of the Arts, the Henry J. Leir Library of Sephardica-Texts and Studies, his support of medical research and his assistance to immigrant students from the former Soviet Union. We will miss this special man of infinite grace and wisdom, who was born with the century. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University Bernard Rapoport, Chairman, Board of Directors Melvin S. Taub, Chairman Emeritus Robert J. Topchik, Pres. Prof. Moshe Lazar, Founder, Faculty of Arts at Tel Aviv Univ. Jules Love, Exec Vice Pres.
        LEIR-Henry. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Henry J. Leir, generous philanthropist and long-time friend. Our hearts and prayers go out to Henry's sister Hedy Wegier. He will bs missed by all who knew him. Philip Milstein, President Joseph Leff, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        LEIR-Henry J. The Rogosin Institute, Board of Directors and staff mourn the passing of our devoted friend and benefactor. Mr. Leir will always be remembered for advancing medical research including a special interest in The Rogosin Institute. He was a compassionate man of quiet strength and dignity. We extend heartfelt sympathy to family and friends.
        LEIR-Henry J. The Board members of the Ridgefield Foundations are deeply saddened by the death of our Chairman and founding member, Henry J. Leir. He generously supported and encouraged many charitable causes during his long life and inspired us by his intellect, vitality and compassion. The Ridgefield Foundations
        LEIR-Henry John. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Dennis B. Freilich, M.D. President
        LEIR-Henry J. Our lives-and those of so many others-were deeply influenced by your vision, example and guidance. You will be sorely missed. Louis and Lini Lipton
        LEIR-Henry J. Goodbye, dear friend. Maxwell Harway
      