
        HAMPTON-Mark. On July 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Duane. Adored father of Kate and Alexa. Devoted brother of Rachel Blank and uncle of Betsy Regan & Mark Blank. Services at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84th Street, Monday, July 27, 11:00AM. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Burden Center for the Aging, 445 East 85th Street, NY, NY 10028; The Municipal Art Society of New York, 245 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022; or The School of American Ballet, 70 Lincoln Center Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10023-6592. For further information contact Frank E. Campbell at 212-288-3500.
        HAMPTON-Mark The Board, Staff and Volunteers of the Burden Center for The Aging note with deep sadness the passing of Mark Hampton, a friend since its inception. Mr. Hampton encouraged the agency's growth with his generous support and enthusiasm for our work. We will miss his gracious spirit. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Duane, who serves on our Board, and to his entire family. Catherine B. Eristoff, Chairman Board of Direcrtors Bill Dionne, Executive Director
        HAMPTON-Mark. The Staff and Trustees of The Parrish Art Museum regret the loss of Mark Hampton, former Trustee and good friend of the Museum. His knowledge of and love for art made his accomplishments in the field of interior design singular for his clients and for the many cultural and public institutions to which he gave so generously. Mildred C. Brinn, Chairman Trudy C. Kramer, Director
        HAMPTON-Mark. Mentor and friend: you were an inspiration to all the artisans and craftsmen who worked with you. We will miss your brilliance, charm and wit. Thank you for believing in me from the start. Gregory Gurfein and Family
        HAMPTON-Mark. The Board of Directors and staff of the Municipal Art Society of New York express our great sorrow on the passing of the beloved husband of our Trustee, Duane Hampton. Our deepest sympathies are with you, Duane, and with Alexa and Kate.
        HAMPTON-Mark. A Trustee of The New York Society Library, Mark Hampton loved literature and books. We shall very much miss him.
      