
        ROBBINS-Jerome. Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief, Howard Solomon, Chairman of the Board, Robert I. Lipp, President of the Board of Directors, and the entire New York City Ballet family profoundly mourn the passing of CoFounding Choreographer Jerome Robbins, our teacher, mentor, colleague and cherished friend. After more than five decades with New York City Ballet, he created nearly 60 ballets, some of which became the most enduring and beloved works of the twentieth century. Considered America's greatest classical choreographer, his ballets were notable for their diversity, brilliance, lyric beauty and humor. He had the uncanny ability to make the most complex movement appear effortless, and totally reflective of the musical score. Jerry's artistic vision, commitment, dedication and passion on each and every project in which he was involved, sought and strove for the very best in all of us. We watched him, we listened to him, we worked with him, we learned from him and we danced for him. His extraordinary life in musical theatre and dance and the prolific gifts of his genius brought immeasurable pleasure & delight to the world. His incomparable legacy to generations of performers will never be forgotten.
        ROBBINS-Jerome. New York City Opera deeply mourns the passing of our good friend and colleague, Jerome Robbins, Co-Founding Choreographer of New York City Ballet. His contributions to dance in the twentieth century are immeasurable, from his many ballets to his enduring work in the Broadway Theatre. He infused American ballet with a spirit and vitality that has influenced many choreographers who have followed. His work has delighted and entertained many throughout the world and his legacy will endure for generations. We extend our deepest sympathies to our friends at City Ballet and to Jerry's many colleagues and admirers throughout the world. Paul Kellogg, General and Artistic Director
        ROBBINS-Jerome. The School of American Ballet notes with sorrow the death of its distinguished alumnus & great friend, Jerry Robbins. He was an artist of the first rank, one who could spin choreographic gold when working with legendary ballerinas, Broadway veterans or SAB students. Chairman Albert Bellas, Chairman of Faculty Peter Martins, President Larry Alan Smith and Executive Director Nathalie Gleboff, with the Board, faculty, staff and students join the legions of devastated admirers around the world.
        ROBBINS-Jerome. With great sadness, the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of our great and beloved friend, Jerome Robbins. He will be sorely missed at Lincoln Center. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his sister, Sonia Cullinen, her husband, and their two children. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        ROBBINS-Jerome. The Board and staff of the New-York Historical Society salute this giant among cultural trail-blazers and commit to help explore and celebrate his full contribution to New York and the world. Betsy Gotbaum, President
      