
        LAPIDUS-Lawrence H. Beloved husband of Lois Lapidus, died peacefully after a long illness on July 16. Survived by 2 daughters, Saundra Lefcovich (Robert) and Laura Kaufman (Martin), and four grandchildren, Eric and Jessica Kaufman, Jaime & Michael Lefcovich, brother, Sheldon (Maribeth). Services to be held July 19, 10 AM at the Community Synagogue, 150 Middleneck Road, Sands Point. Contributions may be made to the UJA Federation of NY or Variety, The Children's Charity, 244 West 49th Street, NYC 10036.
        LAPIDUS-Larry. The Board of Directors & staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Larry Lapidus, one of the most revered and respected indivduals in the motion picture industry. His dedication to being the best was evident in his leadership of such giants as Loew's Theatres, General Cinema, and Creative Entertainment Consultants, which he founded. His business achievements were only equaled by his commitment to the Jewish community, in which his compassion and generosity were legendary. In honor of his accomplishments we named him Exhibitor of the Year in 1995. As a longtime supporter of UJAFederation, he gave freely of his time & talent to those who needed his help. All who knew him were touched by his love, caring, and good nature. To his wife, Lois; their daughters, Saundra & Laura; their grandchildren, Jaime, Michael, Eric, and Jessica; and the entire family, we extend our deepest sympathies. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Edward Bleier/Marty Pompadur, Co-Chairs, Entertainment, Media & Communications Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P. Ron Brien, Campaign Director, Entertainment, Media & Communications
        LAPIDUS-Lawrence. The Commmunity Synagogue of Port Washington, NY, deeply mourns the loss of its longtime member. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Lois, his children and grandchildren. Jane M. Broido, President Jeffrey K. Salkin, Rabbi
      