
        McGRATH-Edward P., Reverend of Oakdale, Connecticut, died after an illness Monday, June 29, on the 29th anniversary of his ordination as a Roman Catholic priest. He was 62. Father McGrath was born on December 2, 1935 in Buffalo, New York, the son of the late James and Mary Agnes (Devitt) McGrath. He graduated from Saint Teresa Elementary School and in 1954 graduated from Bishop Timon High School in Buffalo. In June 1962, he received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Don Bosco College in Newton, New Jersey with a major in History and a minor in Philosophy. He taught at Mary Help of Christians School in Tampa, Florida from June 1962 to June 1963. He then taught at Saint Dominic Savio High School in East Boston, Massachusetts for the 1964-65 school year. He earned his Master of Theology at the Salesian Order's Seminary in Benedixtbuern, Germany. During that time, he spent summers working at the Catacombs in Italy. Father McGrath was ordained as a priest in the Salesian Order of Don Bosco on June 29, 1969 at his parents' home parish, the Church of the Immaculate Conception at Inaugh, County Clare, Ireland. Following his ordination, he taught at Salesian High School in New Rochelle, N.Y. Since 1970, he has served as Chaplain at Saint Thomas More School in Oakdale, Connecticut, where he taught Theology and Philosophy, as well as German and History. His students affectionately refferred to him as ''Padre'' or ''Pod''. He spent his summers as an Associate Pastor at Saint Patrick's Church in Cannonsburg, Pennsylvania; Queen of Heaven Church at Koppel, Pennsylvania; and Purification Church in Elwood City, Pennsylvania. Father McGrath is survived by his brothers and sisters John, James, Martin, Mary Agnes (Doyle), Ann (Haettich), Robert, and Teresa (Gilliland), and many nieces and nephews. He is also survived by many aunts and uncles in Ireland, as well as his second family, the faculty, students, & administration of Saint Thomas More School. A Rite of Christian Burial will be held Wednesday from 2-9 P.M. at Our Lady's Chapel at Saint Thomas More School in Oakdale, followed by a Mass of Christian Burial on Thursday at 11 A.M. Funeral Services will be held Friday, July 3, from 2-9 P.M., at the Reddington Funeral Home, 657 Abbott Road, Buffalo, New York, followed by a Mass of Christian Burial Saturday July 4 at 9 A.M. in Saint Teresa's Church, Seneca Falls, New York. In lieu of flowers, memorials may be made to the Father Edward McGrath Schoarship Fund, C/O Saint Thomas More School, 45 Cottage Road, Oakdale, CT. 06370.
      