
        LEIR-Henry J. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the loss of a most cherished friend of three decades. While small in physical stature, he was a giant of philanthropy and humanitarianism. Henry Leir was a visionary whose keen global insight into all spheres of life was truly remarkable. Wishing to help turn young boys from limited backgrounds into young men with limitless futures, Mr. Leir, a Chai Founder of Boys Town, established a major scholarship endowment at the school to provide scholarship assistance to disadvantaged Israeli youth. A man with a nobility of soul and generosity of spirit, Henry Leir will be remembered around the world through his legacy of doing so much to improve the quality of life for so many. His multitude of good deeds wil endure as an everlasting blessing and tribute. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his sister, Hedy Wegier, family and friends. Josh S. Weston, Chairman. Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Exec V.P.
        LEIR-Henry J. The Alliance Israelite Universelle, The American Friends of the Alliance Israelite Universelle and the Students of the Alliance School Network mourn the passing of our longtime friend and benefactor Henry J. Leir. His memory will live on through those who were touched by his wisdom, his dignity and his generosity. Professor Ady Steg, President Of The Alliance Israelite Universelle Henriette Beilis, President Of The American Friends Of The Alliance Israelite Universelle Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb, Honorary Chairman Of The American Friends' Board of Directors Stuart Marks, Chairman Of The American Friends' Board of Directors
        LEIR-Henry John. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Henry John Leir, a dedicated and fervent supporter of Israel and the Jewish community. His concern for humanitarian causes will live on through his generosity to UJA-Federation, and to the 92nd Street YM-YWHA, a UJA-Federation beneficiary. We extend our sincerest condolences to his sister, Hedy Wegler; and his nephew and niece, Louis and Lini Lipton. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        LEIR-Henry J. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of its devoted friend and benefactor, Henry Leir. Mr. Leir supported many programs and projects in Jerusalem, all designed to enhance the quality of life for the people who live there. This distinguished man of quiet strength will be missed. We extend our sympathy to his family and friends. Teddy Kollek, Int'l. Council Chrmn. Alvin H. Einbender, Nat'l. Chrmn. Mendel Kaplan, Int'l. Chrmn. Ruth Cheshin, Int'l Pres.
        LEIR-Henry J. The National Board of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the death of Henry J. Leir, generous benefactor, devoted humanitarian and beloved friend and mentor of HMO's Director General. Mr. Leir enriched the quality of education and medicine through his many meaningful contributions. May his memory be for a blessing. Marlene E. Post, Nat'l President
        LEIR-Henry. Selfhelp Community Services and United Help note with sorrow the passing of our long time supporter. He was a man of character, willing to share his success with others. He and his wife, Erna, were strong supporters of our work with survivors of the Holocaust. Their generosity has helped this work continue. We offer our condolences to his family.
        LEIR-Henry J. The Board members of the Ridgefield Foundations are deeply saddened by the death of our Chairman and founding member, Henry J. Leir. He generously supported and encouraged many charitable causes during his long life and inspired us by his intellect, vitality and compassion. The Ridgefield Foundations
        LEIR-Henry J. Our lives-and those of so many others-were deeply influenced by your vision, example and guidance. You will be sorely missed. Louis and Lini Lipton
        LEIR-Henry. Thank you for the friendship-Adieu. Thomas Patrick Melady
      