
        MUNSON - Charles Sherwood (''Sherry''). Died at his home in Hobe Sound, FL. on Tuesday, July 21, 1998, in his 86th year. Beloved husband of Celia Deming Munson. Father of Marjorie Smith Munson and Jane Rust Munson Harrison, stepfather of Sharon Harts Wick and Deanne Harts Mallory, and grandfather of Timothy Laurel and Chauncey Rachael Sherwood Harrison. Mr. Munson was educated at the Taft School, after which he graduated with a BA from Yale. While at Yale, he was captain of the golf team, member of St. Elmo and President of the Intercollegiate Golf Association of America. In 1938 he attended Cambridge University and was a member of the Hawk's Club. From 1939-1944, he served as a Lt. Commander in the United States Navy during WW II in the Pacific, Atlantic and Caribbean theaters. Upon his return to the US, he worked at Vanadium Corp. as the assistant to the president until 1949 when he contracted polio. Although the wheelchair was the first thing that you saw, it was the last thing that you remembered. He faced this challenge head-on and remained fully active and committed to whatever he chose to accomplish. In 1953, he became a director of American European Securities Co., one of the first funds to combine European and American equity holdings. At that time, he was also a director at Reinsurance Corp. of America. In 1952, he was elected director of the Westport Bank and Trust, and the Connecticut New York Broadcasting Corp. In 1954, he was made a director at Baldwin-United Corporation. In 1959, he was promoted to the position of president of American European Securities, a post he held until 1972 when the company was sold. He also served as a director of the Eaton Corporation (1963-1981), Marine Midland Bank (1970-1982), Michigan Gas Utilities Co., and Baxter International, Inc. (1979-1990). In his retirement, Mr. Munson was the treasurer of the Hobe Sound Community Chest, a beloved volunteer teacher at the Hobe Sound Elementary School and a member of the board of directors of Planned Parenthood of the Palm Beach and Treasure Coast area. He was a member of The Links, Jupiter Island Club and past president of the Hobe Sound Yacht Club and The Country Club of Fairfield. His many published letters to newspaper editors served as a lesson to us all -''When we disagree, we should let it be known.'' A private memorial service will be held on July 24th, in Southport with burial in Woodbury, CT. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Munson Fund No. 1134, The New York Community Trust, 2 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      