
        MAZER-William. On July 7, in the month of his 93rd birthday. Last surviving child of Abraham & Rose Mazer. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Dear father of Linda (Leonard) Berkowitz, Frank (Angela) & Robert (Magda) Mazer. Loving grandfather of Steven Bercu, Alan and David Berkowitz, Jesse, Alma, Susannah and Samuel Mazer. Great-grandfather of three. Services on Thursday, at 11:30 A.M., at Frank E. Campbell.
        MAZER-William. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of William Mazer, a beloved leader & cherished friend who left a legacy of hope for all those touched by his extraordinary generosity and concern. A champion of Jewish causes, Mr. Mazer embraced the philanthropic traditions and compassionate commitment of his father, Abraham, who was one of the distinguished founders of the United Jewish Appeal. Following in his father's footsteps, Mr. Mazer, along with his late brother, Joseph, and his late sister, Minnie Nathanson, played a major role in the development of UJA-Federation. Mr. Mazer and his late wife, Helen, earned enormous respect and admiration worldwide for their leadership efforts on behalf of the Jewish community. Their extraordinary contributions will be felt for generations to come. As outstanding supporters of UJA-Federation, Mrs. Mazer founded our Riverdale Women's Division, and Mr. Mazer contributed generously through our Palm Beach campaign, Paper Products Division, and Capital Development Fund. Mr. Mazer's humanitarian concern lives on in the continuing efforts of his family through the Mazer Family Fund, which was established at UJA-Federation. We extend our deepest sympathies to his son Frank and his wife, Angela; his son Robert and his wife, Magda; his daughter, Linda Berkowitz, and her busband, Leonard; his grandchildren, Steven, Alan, David, Jesse and Alma; his niece Bobbie Abrams, secretary of UJA-Federation; and his nephew, Dr. Noel Nathanson. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        MAZER-William. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend, William Mazer, an esteemed member of The Rockefeller University Council. His generosity greatly strengthened the University's cancer research programs and nurtured the careers of several outstanding cancer biologists. Mr. Mazer was a wonderful advocate for the importance of medical research. We will miss his warm, gentle, and compassionate spirit. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his daughter, Linda Berkowitz, and her husband, Leonard, to his sons, Frank and Robert Mazer, and to his grandchildren. Torsten N. Wiesel, President Richard B. Fisher, Chairman, Board of Trustees Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman Emeritus, Board of Trustees and Chairman, The R.U. Council David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee, Board of Trustees
        MAZER-William. Dear friend, counselor and staunch supporter with his late wife, Helen, of our pioneering research endeavors in chronic pain and music therapy. To Linda, his daughter, and his sons, heartfelt sympathy. Mathew H.M. Lee, MD, FACP Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine NYU School of Medicine Medical Director Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine
        MAZER-William. The Board and staff of the Ackerman Institute for the Family is saddened by the loss of our founding Board member and guiding light. Bill was our friend, benefactor, and will always be a member of the Ackerman family. We will continue to benefit from his wisdom and generosity for years to come. We share his family's loss and will truly miss him. Donna Laikind, Board Chair Dr. Peter Steinglass, Exec Dir
        MAZER-William. We are deeply saddened by the death of our beloved, long time leader as president and chairman of the board over many decades. Our sincerest condolences to his family. America-Israel Cultural Foundation Vera Stern, President Romie Shapiro, Jan Prokop, Co-Chair Executive Committee
        MAZER-William. Chamber Music Associates mourns the death of our benefactor and friend who enabled us to make beautiful music. Evelyn Gilbert, President
      