
        BEHN-Noel. Novelist, screenwriter and theatrical producer, died on July 27 at Beth Israel Hospital in New York City. He was 70 years old & lived in Manhattan. Mr. Behn succumbed to a heart attack after a battle with cancer. A member of New York's theater community for more than fifty years, Mr. Behn was at the forefront of the creation of the off-Broadway theater movement as the Producing Director of the legendary Cherry Lane Theater. He was the author of seven books, including ''Seven Silent Men'' and ''The Shadowboxer''. Of his remaining work, two were made into feature films and one is still in development. In 1970, Mr. Behn's novel, ''The Kremlin Letter'', was released as a motion picture directed by John Houston and starring Orson Welles. ''The Brink's Job'', a 1978 movie starring Peter Falk and Peter Boyle, was adapted from Mr. Behn's non-fiction book, ''The Big Stick-Up at Brink's''. His latest book, a study of the kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby entitled ''Lindbergh'', is currently in development as a feature film. As a friend of Woody Allen, Mr. Behn also appeared in Mr. Allen's films ''Another Woman'' and as Doug Orkin in 1980's ''Stardust Memories''. In addition to his work in film and theater, Mr. Behn has extensive television credits. He wrote for Tattingers, and, for seven seasons, served as creative consultant on NBC's critically acclaimed series ''Homicide: Life on the Street''. During that time, Mr. Behn wrote or co-wrote more than six episodes and was writing his seventh at the time of his death. His script ''A Many Splendored Thing'' was nominated for the 1994 Writer's Guild Award for Outstanding Writing for a Drama Series. Mr. Behn was also a much loved denizen of Elaine's, New York's legendary watering hole. A veteran of the U.S. Army's Counterintelligence Corps, Mr. Behn, who was divorced, is survived by his mother, Dorothy, of Miami Lakes, Florida, where a funeral service will be held today. There will be a memorial service for Mr. Behn in Manhattan, with further details to be announced.
      