
        KUPIN-Nathan. The loving family of Nathan Kupin express with deepest sorrow the loss of a truly great human being. His love will always be in our hearts. Services will be held at Riverside-Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY, at 10 AM, Tuesday, July 28.
        KUPIN-Nathan. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Nathan Kupin. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved Ruth and their family. Morton West, President Daniel Amster, Secretary
        KUPIN-Nathan. To Barbara, Michael, Matthew, Marshall, Wendy and Joe, Diane and Andrew, how fortunate you were to have had Nat in your lives. His warmth, humor and dignity touched us all. We will always remember him. Love, Marjorie, Alan, Alexandra and Alana
        KUPIN-Nathan. July 25, 1998. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their esteemed member, Nathan, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his family. Board of Governors Richard A. Horowitz, President
        KUPIN-Nathan. The Druckers, Stones and Norths deeply mourn the sudden passing of their beloved ''Poppy.'' His friendship, love, wisdom and guidance will be sorely missed. Our mother was extremely blessed to have had his love and devotion.
        KUPIN-Nathan. Dear Ruthie, you were the air in Nat's lungs. No one could have done more. Our deepest love and sympathy to you, Patsy, Candy and Casey. Marjorie, Alan, Alexandra and Alana
        KUPIN-Nat. The Board and Officers of One Liberty Properties express our sincerest sympathy. Nat furthered us all as a founder, a teacher and even more so as a friend. We will miss you and remember your lessons always.
        KUPIN-Nathan. We regret the loss of our beloved Trustee, whose counsel we cherished. You will be sorely missed. The Staff, Officers and Trustees of BRT Realty Trust
        KUPIN-Nathan. We mourn the loss of one of our founding partners. He was a man of integrity and warmth. His great wisdom will be missed. Gould Investors, L.P.
        KUPIN-Nat. With very deep feeling we mourn your passing. We shall miss you and remember you with much love. With sympathy to your family and to dearest Ruth. Sue, Herman and family
        KUPIN-Nathan. A dear friend, we will miss him. Our heartfelt sympathy to our darling Ruthie. Condolences to Barbara and all the grandchildren. Ronne and Sam Wulwick
        KUPIN-Nathan. Mentor, role model, partner and friend. We thank you for all you did to enrich our lives and that of our family. Helaine and Fred
      