
        McGIVERN-Judge Owen. Age 87. On July 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Joan. Father of Owen Lane McGivern, Joan Morgan McGivern, Thomas More McGivern, Morgan Owen McGivern, Tara Lynn and grandfather of four. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday 4-8PM. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84 Street, Thursday 3 PM. Graveside service & interment Friday 11:30AM, Most Holy Trinity Cemetery, Cedar Street, East Hampton, New York. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Gregorian University Foundation or Regis High School.
        McGIVERN-Owen, Hon. He lent new lustre to the maxim: ''Gentleman and Scholar''. Judge Owen McGivern found himself as comfortable with Aristotle or Aquinas as he was with Leon Uris or Tom Wolfe. A keen mind and a balanced life seasoned by native Gaelic wit, he fully subscribed to Chesterton's aphorism: ''Humor is a prelude to faith and laughter the beginning of prayer''. A man of great faith and towering commitment to this town and, especially, to its most scarred children, he made his way to the halls of Daytop where he served so many years as Governor and Friend. Heaven favor his journey home and grant solace to his beloved Joan and family. (Msgr) William B. O'Brien President, Daytop Village, Inc
        McGIVERN-Judge Owen. Tony and Luly Duke, Bob North, and The Board of Boys Harbor, join with the Harbor's staff and the thousands of children who have passed through The Harbor's doors in acknowledging the loss of Judge Owen McGivern. Owen was the husband of our long time Board Member, Joan McGivern, and a true supporter of The Harbor to which he lent his judicial expertise whenever it was needed. Our hearts go out to his wife, his two daughters, Joan Morgan McGivern, Tara Lynn & three sons, Owen, Thomas and Morgan and four grandchildren.
        McGIVERN-Hon. Owen. The Veterans of OSS and the William J. Donovan Memorial Foundation mourn the passing of our most valued and exceptional member. Although militarily deferred as a NY State Assemblyman, he joined the Navy to subsequently serve as OSS Naval Liaison Officer in W.W. II. Longtime Chairman of our Donovan Award Committee and Founding Secretary of the Foundation, his keen wit and wise judgment will be greatly missed. Geoffrey M. T. Jones President
        McGIVERN-Owen. It is with great sadness that the members of the Sheriff's Jury of New York County note the passing of Owen McGivern, great judge, scholar, orator and raconteur; honored guest at every one of its annual dinners since the 1940's. His great energy, humor and good fellowship was one of the hallmarks of the Sheriff's Jury and our organization will never be quite the same without the presence of Owen McGivern.
        McGIVERN-Owen. The officers and members of the McManus Democratic Organization mark with sorrow the passing of our long-time member and mentor. He will be remembered for his service to his community and his Party. We extend our love and condolences to his family. James McManus, District Leader Eleanor Mulligan, District Leader Carlos Manzano, President
        McGIVERN-Owen. This unique & sensitive man, whose honesty, decency, integrity and down to earth common sense and good humor has contributed to the state, the country and all of us, will be missed but remembered for a long time. Condolences to his wife, Joan, and all the members of his family. Laurence W. Levine
      