
        HAUSMAN-Jack. Age 96. On July 10, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Ethel Hausman. Father of Richard and Michael and the late Peter Hausman. Grandfather of eight and great-grandfather of nine. Brother of Leo and the late Samuel Hausman and the late Anne Herrmann. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday, 5-8 PM, with service Monday, 9:45 AM. Memorial service at a later date to be announced. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to North Shore Hospital, Manhasset, LI or United Cerebral Palsy of NYC, 105 Madison Ave., NY NY 10016.
        HAUSMAN-Jack. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City, are deeply saddened by the passing of Jack Hausman, a founder and beloved leader whose achievements include the creation of UCP/NYC, of United Cerebal Palsy Associations, our national organization with more than 150 affiliates nationwide, and of the UCP Reserarch & Educational Foundation. Jack and Ethel Hausman's middle son Peter was born with cerebal palsy. In 1946, they joined other parents for the simple purpose of raising funds to purchase medical care for children. Working with Leonard H. and Isabelle Goldenson, and others, they built UCP into one of the largest health agencies in the US and the leading provider of services to children and adults with cerebal palsy and related disabilities. Jack Hausman mobilized and inspired thousands of volunteers, including many influential and powerful individuals from Princess Diana to several presidents, earning enormous respect and admiration worldwide. His generosity and untiring efforts have helped to change the lives of thousands of people with disabilities. We extend our deepest sympathy to his brother Leo, President of UCP/ NYC, to his sons Richard and Michael, and to all the Hausman family. Edward R. Matthews Executive Director Ronald J. H. Napal Dir, Development & PR UCP/NYC, Inc.
        HAUSMAN-Jack. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Jack Hausman. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        HAUSMAN-Jack. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. Irwin H. Kramer, President
        HAUSMAN-Jack. Uncle Jack: Jane, Dick and David will always remember your dedication, your charity, and your humanity.
      