
        ZELNIKER-Arthur, 78. On July 26, 1998. Loving and beloved husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Mark and Ilene Zelniker and Jan and Jeffrey Scherr. Cherished grandfather of Lindsay, Jordan, Brian, Jeremy & Robert. Caring brother of Sheila and Sidney Hammer and Rhoda and Irving Spielvogel. Founder & President of Econoco Corporation, he was greatly admired & a giant in the store fixture industry. Former President of Fresh Meadow Country Club. He will be sorely missed by his many friends and family. Contributions may be made to the American Cancer Society, 400 Post Avenue, Suite 201, Westbury, New York 11590. Funeral services were held Tuesday, July 28, 1998.
        ZELNIKER-Arthur. We mourn the loss of Arthur and extend our deepest sympathy to our very dear friend Elaine, their children Mark, Jan and their families. We will miss Arthur with whom we shared many laughs, happy events and good times together. Jacky and Bernie, Estelle and Saul, Phyllis and Ben
        ZELNIKER-Arthur. We mourn the passing of our long time President, Arthur Zelniker, on July 26, 1998. For over 50 years, his unquestionable dedication and undying loyalty to the company has provided an inspiration to all those who have worked with him. We admire his entrepreneurial spirit, cleverness and intuitiveness, which has given business people everywhere a role model for success. We will miss him. Faithfully, Barry A. Rosenberg Mark Zelniker Joseph Klinow and the entire staff of Econoco Corporation
        ZELNIKER-Arthur. We mourn the passing of our esteemed member and former past president, Arthur Zelniker. On behalf of the membership, we are forever grateful for his dedication to Fresh Meadow Country Club. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Elaine, and her entire family. Fresh Meadow Country Club Steven Howard, President Allen Kaplan, Secretary
        ZELNIKER-Arthur. Our sincerest and deepest sympathy to Arthur's wife of 50 years, Elaine, Mark and Ilene Zelniker, Jan and Jeffrey Scherr, Lindsay, Jordan, Brian, Jeremy and Robert on the loss of Arthur Zelniker, devoted husband, father and grandfather. With much love and understanding, Marjorie Rosenberg Laurie and Joseph Klinow Robin and Barry Rosenberg
        ZELNIKER-Arthur. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Arthur Zelniker. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Elaine and their family. Morton West, President Daniel Amster, Secretary
        ZELNIKER-Arthur. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Arthur Zelniker and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Martin Kay, President
        ZELNIKER-Arthur. We mourn the loss of our dear friend of many years. Our heartfelt sympathy to Elaine and all your family. You're leaving us much too early and too soon. Pat and Harry Markowitz
        ZELNIKER-Arthur. Elaine, dear, my deepest sympathy to you, Mark, Jan and family in the passing of dear Arthur. We shall all miss him. Estelle R. Cohen
      