
        MAZER-William. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a longtime friend, YU Benefactor and Founder of our Albert Einstein College of Medicine with his late wife, Helen, and a leader in Jewish communal life. He was the surviving member of one of our eminent founding families who played a prominent role in the institution's growth in many areas. His father, the late Abraham Mazer, and his brother, the late Joseph M. Mazer, served on YU's Board from the '40s through the '70s for a combined membership of some forty years. William Mazer was instrumental in the family's establishment of our Yeshiva Program/Mazer School of Talmudic Studies and AECOM's Abraham Mazer Hall. The Abraham Mazer Chair in Talmudic Studies at our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary is further testament to the family's munificence. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        MAZER-William. The Beth Israel Medical Center family is saddened over the death of William Mazer, a benefactor of the Medical Center together with his late wife, Helen, and the beloved uncle of our devoted Trustee and Vice Chairman of the Board, Bobbie Abrams. The support and generosity of the Mazer family has been greatly appreciated over the years. To Mr. Mazer's children, Linda Berkowitz, Frank Mazer and Robert Mazer, his seven grandchildren, three great-grandchildren, and all who loved him, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President
        MAZER-William. Penn South Social Services, Penn South Program for Seniors and the whole Penn South community mourn the death of our friend, William Mazer. Through his sustained generosity, many seniors have been helped to remain living independently with dignity in their own homes at Penn South. We extend deepest sympathy to all his family Nat Yalowitz, President PSSS Karen Bassuk, Director PSPS
        MAZER-William. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of William Mazer, a supporter of ADL. We extend our deepest condolences to his children and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
      