
        CLARKE-Sylvia (nee Stein). On June 29. Loving wife of the late Herbert M. (Nobby) Clarke. Beloved sister of Selma Cohen and her husband Eli. Devoted aunt of Theodora Raab, Dr. Alan D. Kramer, Joyce Fishman, Marc Rosenbaum & Peter Rosenbaum. Doting great aunt of Samantha & Sophie Rosenbaum. Caring step-mother of Ann Bedford. Cherished and irreplaceable friend of those whose lives luckily intersected with hers. As the founding editor-in-chief of the professional journal, ''Social Work in Health Care''; and as a top social work administrator, leader and teacher at Brooklyn Veterans Medical Center, Roosevelt Hospital and Mount Sinai Hospital, she was a mentor and role model to three generations of social workers and other health care professionals. Memorial service to be announced.
        CLARKE-Sylvia. The Division of Social Work and Behavioral Science of the Department of Community and Preventive Medicine of Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and the Social Work Department of The Mount Sinai Hospital note with deep sadness, the passing of our respected colleague, Sylvia Clarke, who was associated with Mount Sinai for nearly twenty years. An educatorsocial worker of national renown, Ms. Clarke played a pivotal role in the evolution of social work practice and administration at numerous New York institutions for nearly six decades. She was a leader of the Society of Social Work Directors, as well as founder of ''Social Work in Health Care'', the first refereed professional journal in her field. Her extraordinary talent and generous spirit enriched us all and she will be sorely missed. Gary Rosenberg, PhD Edith J. Baerwald Professor Community & Preventive Medicine Chair, Division of Social Work & Behavioral Science Mount Sinai School of Medicine Susan Blumenfield, BSW Director, Dept of Social Work The Mount Sinai Hospital
        CLARKE-Sylvia. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Sylvia Clarke, adjunct lecturer & consultant in Mount Sinai School of Medicine's Department of Community and Preventive Medicine Division of Social Work and Behavioral Science. Ms. Clarke came to Mount Sinai in 1978 following nearly four decades of achievement as practitioner, supervisor and administrator of social work departments at numerous institutions. Admired and respected for her numerous contributions to interprofessional education, curriculum planning and the delineation of the role of social work in medical care, she will be remembered fondly as a woman of uncommon intellect as well as much warmth. She will be sorely missed. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Alan L. Schiller, M.D., President, Medical Board
      