
        HAUSMAN-Jack. Age 96. On July 10, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Ethel Hausman. Father of Richard and Michael and the late Peter Hausman. Grandfather of eight and great-grandfather of nine. Brother of Leo and the late Samuel Hausman and the late Anne Herrmann. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday, 5-8 PM, with service Monday, 9:45 AM. Memorial service at a later date to be announced. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to North Shore Hospital, Manhasset, LI or United Cerebral Palsy of NYC, 105 Madison Ave., NY NY 10016.
        HAUSMAN-Jack. The Board of Directors, volunteers, and staff of United Cerebral Palsy Associations and its 149 affiliates nationwide, and the United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, acknowledge with great sorrow the passing of Jack Hausman, beloved founder of UCPA. His magnanimous heart, resilient spirit and vision continue to make a tremendous difference in the lives of thousands of children and adults with cerebral palsy and other similar disabilities. Faced with a world without adequate services for their son, Peter, who was born with cerebral palsy, Jack and his beloved wife, Ethel, joined forces with Leonard and Isabelle Goldenson, Nina Eaton, and other parents to demand medical care as well as services and supports in 1948 to assist their children in living full, productive lives. Their local efforts grew into a national movement with hundreds of families joining forces to create a national organization, United Cerebral Palsy Associations. Today, UCPA is one of the largest health non-profits in America with a network of affiliates providing advocacy, services and supports to children and adults with cerebral palsy and other disabilities to assist them in leading full and productive lives in the community. Their efforts also founded the United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, dedicated to medical research to enhance the quality of life for individuals with cerebral palsy. Our deepest sympathy to his sons Richard and Michael, his brother Leo, and to the entire Hausman family. The United Cerbral Palsy family will greatly miss this truly generous and visionary man. Michael H. Simonson, President Jeanette E. Harvey, Exec. Dir. UCPA Murray Goldstein, DO, MPH Director, UCP Research & Educational Foundation
        HAUSMAN-Jack. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City, are deeply saddened by the passing of Jack Hausman, a founder and beloved leader whose achievements include the creation of UCP/NYC, of United Cerebal Palsy Associations, our national organization with more than 150 affiliates nationwide, and of the UCP Reserarch & Educational Foundation. Jack and Ethel Hausman's middle son Peter was born with cerebal palsy. In 1946, they joined other parents for the simple purpose of raising funds to purchase medical care for children. Working with Leonard H. and Isabelle Goldenson, and others, they built UCP into one of the largest health agencies in the US and the leading provider of services to children and adults with cerebal palsy and related disabilities. Jack Hausman mobilized and inspired thousands of volunteers, including many influential and powerful individuals from Princess Diana to several presidents, earning enormous respect and admiration worldwide. His generosity and untiring efforts have helped to change the lives of thousands of people with disabilities. We extend our deepest sympathy to his brother Leo, President of UCP/ NYC, to his sons Richard and Michael, and to all the Hausman family. Edward R. Matthews Executive Director Ronald J. H. Napal Dir, Development & PR UCP/NYC, Inc.
        HAUSMAN-Jack. We note with great sadness the passing of Jack Hausman, a Founder, a philanthropist, business and community leader who played a key role in establishing North Shore University Hospital as a premier health care institution in the Long Island region. His dedication and commitment to our institution were driving forces in our growth and development. His enthusiastic philanthropy inspired many others to support North Shore and other worthwhile causes to which he donated his energy and time. He remained active and concerned throughout his life, supporting patient care and educational initiatives at North Shore University Hospital. His concern for children inspired him to actively support the Hausman Department of Pediatrics and the Ethel and Jack Hausman Lectureship in Pediatrics at North Shore. He also established the Jack Hausman Professorship in Pediatrics. His life was a true example of caring, giving, leadership, and friendship to all. He sincerely believed in doing the most good for the most people for the right reasons. On behalf of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, we extend our deepest sympathy to his family. John S. T. Gallagher, Chief Executive Officer David R. Dantzker, M.D., Pres. North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        HAUSMAN-Jack. It is with deepest regret that we note the passing of our friend and fellow Trustee, Jack Hausman. A true visionary, he was a Founder, Past Chairman, and Honorary Chairman of the Board Emeritus. Together with Willie Cohen, he was one of the legendary ''Gold Dust Twins'' whose philanthropy was matched by the scope of his ideas and the size of his heart. Today, countless individuals are beneficiaries of his foresight and concern for the health care of the region. His commitment to education was evidenced by his sponsorship of the Ethel and Jack Hausman Lectureship in Pediatrics and the creation of the Hausman Department of Pediatrics. His legacy will live on in our memories and throughout our institutions. Our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Saul B. Katz, Chairman, Board of Trustees, North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        HAUSMAN-Jack. With the passing of Jack Hausman, we have lost a friend, a Founder and Past Chairman of North Shore University Hospital. His vision, leadership and generosity helped this institution become one of the finest in the country. With eager personal involvement, uplifting spirit and willingness to do the most good for the most people, his commitment was a continuing inspiration to us all. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Barry Cohen, M.D., President, Medical Staff Peter Walker, M.D., Chairman, Medical Board Lawrence Scherr, M.D., MACP Sr. Vice Pres. for Medical Affairs, North Shore University Hospital
        HAUSMAN-Jack. We mourn the death of Jack Hausman, a Founder, Past Chairman and constant supporter of North Shore University Hospital. A century of involvement in helping others and improving the human spirit is reflective of his long life. Along with his late wife, Ethel, this charming and gracious couple through charity, wisdom and generosity have truly made a difference. His death brings sorrow but also admiration and appreciation for all his accomplishments. My sincere condolences to his family. Lawrence Scherr, M.D., MACP Chairman, Dept. of Medicine, North-Shore University Hospital
        HAUSMAN-Jack. With his passing, we have lost a valuable friend and supporter. His legendary devotion to children helped shape the mission of our Department of Pediatrics. Excellence in patient care, medical education, research and community service are evidenced by the creation of the Ethel and Jack Hausman Lectureship in Pediatrics. My most heartfelt regrets to his family. We will miss this fine humanitarian, philanthropist, and Founder of North Shore University Hospital. Mervin Silverberg, M.D. Chairman, Dept. of Pediatrics North Shore University Hospital and Hausman Prof. of Pediatrics
        HAUSMAN-Jack. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors and members of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of our esteemed Honorary Member and longtime friend, Jack Hausman. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire Hausman family. President Steven Howard Secretary Allen Kaplan
        HAUSMAN-Jack. Poppy J. ''We love you and don't you forget it.'' From all your grandchildren: Elizabeth (Holdstein), Catherine (Kaminski), Marguerite (DeNicola) Shawn, Willo, Colt; and greatgrandchildren: Gillian, Andrew, Patricia, Margaret, August, Alexander, Peter and Ellen
        HAUSMAN-Jack. Uncle Jack. We will miss you and always remember your lifetime of achievements and the legacy that you have left. The Davidson, Hausman and Miller families
        HAUSMAN-Jack. A great philanthropist and leader who will be sorely missed and never forgotten. Marty Silverman and family
      