
        ROBBINS-Jerome. Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief, Howard Solomon, Chairman of the Board, Robert I. Lipp, President of the Board of Directors, and the entire New York City Ballet family profoundly mourn the passing of CoFounding Choreographer Jerome Robbins, our teacher, mentor, colleague and cherished friend. After more than five decades with New York City Ballet, he created nearly 60 ballets, some of which became the most enduring and beloved works of the twentieth century. Considered America's greatest classical choreographer, his ballets were notable for their diversity, brilliance, lyric beauty and humor. He had the uncanny ability to make the most complex movement appear effortless, and totally reflective of the musical score. Jerry's artistic vision, commitment, dedication and passion on each and every project in which he was involved, sought and strove for the very best in all of us. We watched him, we listened to him, we worked with him, we learned from him and we danced for him. His extraordinary life in musical theatre and dance and the prolific gifts of his genius brought immeasurable pleasure & delight to the world. His incomparable legacy to generations of performers will never be forgotten.
        ROBBINS-Jerome. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the passing of one of the leading figures in the American cultural landscape, and a lion of the performing arts, the Library's esteemed friend and supporter, Jerome Robbins. Because of his outstanding generosity, the history of dance performance is documented and available for future generations through the expansive collection of films and videorecordings in the Jerome Robbins Archive of the Recorded Moving Image, contained within the Dance Collection of The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts. We were privileged to benefit from his support and advice on the performing arts, and shall miss him greatly. Marshall Rose, Chairman Paul LeClerc, President Mrs. Vincent Astor, Honorary Chairman Andrew Heiskell, Elizabeth Rohatyn, Chairmen Emeriti
        ROBBINS-Jerome. The School of American Ballet notes with sorrow the death of its distinguished alumnus & great friend, Jerry Robbins. He was an artist of the first rank, one who could spin choreographic gold when working with legendary ballerinas, Broadway veterans or SAB students. Chairman Albert Bellas, Chairman of Faculty Peter Martins, President Larry Alan Smith and Executive Director Nathalie Gleboff, with the Board, faculty, staff and students join the legions of devastated admirers around the world.
        ROBBINS-Jerome. With great sadness, the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of our great and beloved friend, Jerome Robbins. He will be sorely missed at Lincoln Center. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his sister, Sonia Cullinen, her husband, and their two children. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        ROBBINS-Jerome. The Board and staff of The Public Theater/New York Shakespeare Festival note with sorrow the passing of Jerome Robbins. He revolutionized the Broadway musical through his innovations in dance, and his artistic legacy will be remembered with our profound respect and admiration. The Public Theater/NYSF Board of Trustees George C. Wolfe, Producer
        ROBBINS-Jerome. American Ballet Theatre mourns the passing of a dear colleague, friend, mentor and inspiration. For more than five decades, Jerome Robbins was a part of ABT's life & legacy. We are honored that his first ballet ''Fancy Free'' was created for ABT and remains in the repertory still. Through that classic work and each of his many magical creations, his spirit lives on.
        ROBBINS-Jerome. The Shubert Organization mourns the passing of a genius of the American Theatre and the world of ballet. Jerry Robbins was one of a kind and it was our honor to have participated in the production of JEROME ROBBINS' BROADWAY. Gerald Schoenfeld, Chairman Philip J. Smith, President The Shubert Organization
        ROBBINS-Jerome. All of us have had the ''Jerry Experience''; exhilarating, frustrating, challenging, irritating and unforgettable. But, none of us can deny his brilliance as a creator, and what he gave to you as an artist and a professional. The Trustees of The George Balanchine Trust.
        ROBBINS-Jerome. Dance/USA expresses their great sympathy at the loss of Jerome Robbins. Dance/USA
      