
        MICHELFELDER-Phyllis Deveneau. Of Gulfstream, FL, was born in Chicago, Illinois, on December 30, 1921 and died on July 18, 1998, at Boynton Beach, FL., following complications from surgery. She was predeceased by her husband, William F. Michelfelder, author & freelance writer. Mrs. Michelfelder, a graduate of the University of New Hampshire, had a Master of Science degree in Counseling Psychology from Nova University, and was a Licensed Mental Health Counselor and Certified Addictions Professional. Before moving to Palm Beach County with her husband in 1971, Mrs. Michelfelder was on the staff of New Jersey College for Women (now Douglass College of Rutgers University). Her career included development/fundraising administrator at Columbia University in New York City, and several women's colleges. She also served as the Associate Director of the Independent Colleges Funds of America and was a member of the professional fundraising firm of Tamblyn and Brown in New York City. In 1974, she and Dr. Susan B. Anthony cofounded Wayside House, Inc. in Delray Beach, a multi-faceted center for the treatment of drug and alcohol abuse, and family and children's counselling. Mrs. Michelfelder started as a volunteer at Wayside House and was President of the Board of Directors until December 15, 1977, when she assumed the position of Executive Director, which she held consecutively thereafter until her retirement on April 1, 1998. In 1994 she received the Pioneer Award for life-long commitment and outstanding contributions in her field from the Comprehensive Alcoholism Rehabilitation Program (CARP). Her many awards also include: Professional of the Year from the Florida Alcohol and Drug Abuse Association; Nurses Annual Award; United Way/Red Ribbon Award, and the Susan B. Anthony Award as ''Outstanding Palm Beach County Feminist'' by South Palm Beach County's Chapter of NOW. Mrs. Michelfelder is survived by her brother, Nelson E. Deveneau and his family; her sister, Marion D. Stevens, and her family; and many friends. A memorial service will be held at 11:30 a.m. on Saturday, July 25, 1998, at Church of the Palms, Delray Beach, Florida, with a reception immediately following at the Wayside House. Interment will be private and at a later date. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to Wayside House, Inc., or to the Church of the Palms Scholarship Fund, both of Delray Beach, Florida.
      