
        DETWILER-Valerie (nee Byrne), a state of Arizona Community Health Nurse, former resident of Long Beach, Long Island and nineteen year resident of Tucson, died Wednesday, July 1, 1998 at Tucson Medical Hospice Center. She was sixty years old. She was born on December 24, 1937 in the Bronx, NY to Eugene & Therese Byrne. She attended St. Nicholas of Tolentine High School and in 1963 received her nursing degree from St. John's Nursing School. She joined the Army in 1966 as a Second Lieutenant and subsequently rose to the rank of First Lieutenant. She served in Southeast Asia acting as a surgical nurse for severe casualties of the Vietnam War. In 1968, she married Chief W.O. Jack Sheridan Detwiler. They resided in Long Beach for ten years. She was a member of St. Ignatius R.C. Church and cared for the elderly in Long Beach and participated in other local community organizations. In 1979, she moved to Tucson with her family where she was a parishioner at Our Mother of Sorrows R.C. Church. She continued to care for the elderly and to volunteer at several local organizations including the Girl Scouts of America. In addition to her husband Jack, she is survived by their children Victoria and Andrew of Tucson and Mark of Hawaii; five stepsons: Jack of Minneapolis, Minnesota, Don of Oceanside, Long Island, Robert of Tucson, Michael & Daryl of Tulsa, Oklahoma; their three grandchildren: Victoria, Andrew and Brooke; eleven step grandchildren; one step great grandchild; and her brother, E. Michael Byrne of Bronxville, NY. Her parents Eugene and Therese preceded her in death in 1968 and 1990, and her sister, Denise M. Hanrahan, in 1989. First Lieutenant M. Valerie Detwiler will be laid to rest July 16th at 1:00 P.M., at Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors. Donations in the name of Valerie Detwiler may be made to the Tucson Medical Center Hospice, 5301 East Grant Street, Tucson, Arizona 85712 or National Kidney Cancer Association, 1234 Sheridan Avenue, Suite 203, Evanston, IL. 60202.
      