
        OFFENHARTZ - Harry Donald. President of the New Heritage Music Foundation, died on July 13, 1998 from complications of congestive heart failure. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan. Called the ''last New Dealer'' by the NY Daily News, he was a Project Administrator for the WPA during the Roosevelt administration and later worked for Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, creating low cost housing in rural areas. He served in the Navy during World War I (lying about his age), and joined the Army in 1943 for World War II (this time lying about his age in the other direction). On May 18, 1935 he married Eilen Marie O'Donnell, their 62 year marriage ending when she died in a fire in their apartment in December, 1996. In 1995 he founded the New Heritage Music Foundation, which has been commissioning a series of new orchestral pieces to honor his heroes from the New Deal, as well as John F. Kennedy and Thomas Jefferson. The concert series will premiere on September 11 in Charlottesville, Virginia & continue at major locations across the country. A lifelong liberal Democrat, a founder and national Chair of the New Democratic Coalition, a supporter of women's rights, and a card carrying member of the ACLU, he was a Democratic Party activist and fundraiser. Harry is survived by his three sons: Peter of Wellesley, MA; Colin of Chappaqua, NY and Douglas of Walnut Creek, CA; his sisters; Billie Raphael of Sunrise, FL., & Yetta Horowitz of Brooklyn, by five grandchildren and one great grandson. Memorial contributions may be made to the Northern Westchester Shelter, PO Box 203, Pleasantville, NY 10570 or to My Sister's Place, 2 Lyon Place, Suite 300, White Plains, NY 10601. A memorial service will be held at a later date.
        OFFENHARTZ - Harry Donald. The Board of Directors of the New Heritage Music Foundation mourns the loss of Harry Donald Offenhartz, our founder, President and source of inspiration. His singular mission: use the power of music to pay tribute to his political heroes, inspire people to learn from the examples of great men and women, and energize Americans to do some good. America has lost a hero, but he will not be unsung, because the new compositions he has commissioned will ensure that his twin passions for social justice and great music will endure for generations to come. We will miss his generous spirit, his warmth, his great stories about Eleanor Roosevelt and FDR, and the twinkle in his eye.
      