
        HAMPTON-Mark. On July 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Duane. Adored father of Kate and Alexa. Devoted brother of Rachel Blank and uncle of Betsy Regan & Mark Blank. Services at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84th Street, Monday, July 27, 11:00AM. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Burden Center for the Aging, 445 East 85th Street, NY, NY 10028; The Municipal Art Society of New York, 245 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022; or The School of American Ballet, 70 Lincoln Center Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10023-6592. For further information contact Frank E. Campbell at 212-288-3500.
        HAMPTON-Mark. The School of American Ballet notes with sadness the death of Mark Hampton, a longtime friend. Mark was a man of extraordinary taste who shared his talents with manyeven adolescent ballet students. A wonderful and generous raconteur of great wit and charm, we count ourselves fortunate to have known him. The Board, faculty, staff and students send deepest sympathies to Duane, and to Kate and Alexa. Albert C. Bellas, Chairman Peter Martins, Chmn of Faculty Larry Alan Smith, President Nathalie Gleboff, Exec Dir
        HAMPTON-Mark. He generously shared his knowledge and many enthusiasms with a generation of people fortunate to work for him. And his vivid example of the virtues of a liberal mind was as influential as his great talent. Sincere condolences to Duane, Kate and Alexa whose vital support Mark depended on. Bryan O'Rourke
        HAMPTON-Mark. Inspirational employer and friend, your genius, extraordinary vision and wonderful sense of humor will be so greatly missed. Thank you for making such an important difference in our lives; it was an honor and privilege to have known you. Barbara and Bill Epifanio
        HAMPTON-Mark. Deepest sympathy to Duane, family and friends. You were extraordinary. Your genius for design, flair for elegance and passion for service to your cliients will be an inspiration always. Glenn Lawson and Family
        HAMPTON-Mark. It was next to impossible to leave you and now you have left me. You were my mentor. You gave me my career, my future and my best friend, Alexa. I thank you. Love, Dara Stern
        HAMPTON-Mark. We mourn the passing of Mark Hampton, a greatly talented man and wonderful artist. Our condolences to his wife Duane and to their daughters. Albert and Kay Bellas
      