
        MAFFEI-Frank G. The Management Team of CORE Services at the Mount Sinai Hospital New York join in mourning the untimely passing of Frank Maffei, a leader, mentor, and close friend of so many whose lives he touched in his 13 year career. Our love is extended to his wife Lisa, his two daughters Jane and Maria, and to the rest of his family. Memorial donations to American Heart Association. Viewing Tuesday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM at Clark Associates Funeral Home, Katonah, NY. Interment Wednesday, 10 AM, St. Patrick's Church, Yorktown, NY.
        MAFFEI-Frank. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in mourning the untimely passing of our colleague, Frank Maffei, Vice President for Operations. A dedicated, compassionate, and effective administrator, Frank was a true leader in the health care field. He will be sorely missed. To his wife Lisa, his daughters Jane and Maria, and all his family and friends, we offer our profound condolences. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Board of Trustees, CHP Lawrence S. Huntington Vice-Chairman, Board of Trustees, CHP Chairman, Board of Trustees, SLR Robert G. Newman, MD President and Chief Executive Officer, CHP Acting President, SLR
        MAFFEI-Frank. The administrative staff of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the death of our beloved friend and colleague, Frank Maffei, Vice President for Operations. We will never forget his dedication and compassion, and will always cherish his warmth and sense of humor. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his family and friends. Wendy Z. Goldstein Chief Operating Officer St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Administrative Staff St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital
        MAFFEI-Frank. The Administrative Staff of the Mt. Sinai Hospital is deeply sorrowed by the untimely loss of our dear friend and colleague, Frank Maffei. His contributions to Mt. Sinai were many, and his laughter will always be with us. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Phyllis Schnepf, VP Core Services Joel Seligman, VP In-Patient Operations Tom Smith, VP Nursing Candice Kaufman, VP Quality Initiative
      