
        HESS-Stephen R. Suddenly on July 14th, 1998 in Lenox, MA. Lifetime resident of New York City. Loving son of the late Leonard and Ruth Hess. Devoted brother of Katherine A. Hess. Special friend of Diane Dickinson. Beloved friend of so many others. Friends may call Thursday evening July 16th from 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St with service Friday, 11:30 AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Stephen Hess Pediatric Social Enhancement Fund, c/o Lenox Hill Hospital, 100 East 77th St., NY NY 10021.
        HESS-Stephen R. A very wealthy man has left us. If wealth can be measured by the number of people who loved Steve Hess, yes loved, he was indeed a rich man. We, his friends, acquaintances, and even those who thought they knew him are diminished by his passing. It isn't trite to write that Steve was one of this town's more unique, over-the-top, likeable, maddening & lovable personages. He was a large man. Large in physical stature, large in his appetite for life; large in his love for anything played with a ball; and in his love for and need of his friends the numbers of which are truly uncountable. The word ''fan'' derives from the word fanatic and Steve was the quintessential fan of all sports. Most of all he rose, but mostly fell, over the sporting achievements of his beloved University of Pennsylvania. But, a croquet team from outer space would have earned his attention. He loved the thrust and parry of good ideas & stimulating conversation on any topic. He could hold his own in small talk with anyone on the planet and the funny thing was that oft times the conversation or the jibes were all about him. You didn't mind. He was that type of a person. He made you smile and laugh and that's not a bad ability to have had. On the other hand, he was nobody's fool, either. To be joshed and insulted by him enrolled you into a fraternity of friends and one was not averse to wearing his remarks as a badge of achievement. His invariable good humor and outrageous wit disarmed all. You knew that no malice was involved. On the other hand, he spoke truth. If he had a problem on his mind about some person or thing, he never let his concerns fester but spoke up. You knew where you stood with Steve. He had friends all over the world, and as an inveterate traveler, he rarely needed a hotel as bed and board were available to him from Australia to Wales; from New Jersey to Colorado. Moreover, he had the remarkable knack of befriending the children of his friends. Not an easy trick these days. He accepted them, and they he, as equals. He was a good traveling companion and had eclectic interests. First of all, in traveling with Steve, you rarely had to participate in any conversations. You just listened. Aside from sports, Steve had a great interest in the American Civil War & World War II and he pursued these interests by being a museum rat and through trips as diverse as to England, France and Gettysburg just to check things out for himself. He thoroughly enjoyed playing thoroughly mediocre golf with his ''guys'' at Quaker Ridge. While the foursomes changed in composition, they never suffered from silence. And, there are many patients and visitors to patients at Lenox Hill Hospital who will remember his unique style in handling their switchboard as a longtime volunteer. Friends knew that under the layers of continuous talk and talk there was another, and a more real, Steve. A Steve that was introspective, vulnerable, thoughtful, caring and generous. Others may have thought they knew him by the persona he wore. These people, regrettably, never got to see, or know, the real Steve. There is a line from an old song lyric that seems appropriate to recall today, ''So easy to remember; but so hard to forget.'' That was Steve. We shall miss him-many will. That is not a bad legacy. Joyce and Bernard West Jane West and Stacy Clark
        HESS-Stephen R. The Board of Directors and members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Stephen R. Hess, whose many years of friendship and devotion to the Club will always be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Richard M. Feldman, President Edward J. Landau, Secretary
        HESS-Stephen R. In loving memory. We will always miss him. The Weiss Family Ron, Ellen, Chris, Hilary and Billy Cooper, Carolyn and Chris Clayton
        HESS-Stephen R. My dearest friend, thank you for your love, caring and devotion. You could always make me smile. I miss you so very, very much. Diane.
        HESS-Stephen R. A wonderful friend and companion. A great friend to many. We will miss you. Margot and Stephen Holland
      