
        McGIVERN-Judge Owen. Age 87. On July 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Joan. Father of Owen Lane McGivern, Joan Morgan McGivern, Thomas More McGivern, Morgan Owen McGivern, Tara Lynn and grandfather of four. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday 4-8PM. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue at 84 Street, Thursday 3 PM. Graveside service & interment Friday 11:30AM, Most Holy Trinity Cemetery, Cedar Street, East Hampton, New York. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Gregorian University Foundation or Regis High School.
        McGIVERN-Hon. Owen. The Board of Justices of the Supreme Court, First District, marks with sadness the passing of our former Chief, The Hon. Owen McGivern, a person of wit and eloquence, a great classical scholar, but nevertheless, a man possessing the common touch. Judge McGivern was admired by all. We shall miss his sweetness and warmth. Our condolences go to his family. Beatrice Shainswit, President
        MCGIVERN-Owen, Judge. The Respect for Law Alliance, Inc., mourns the death of its esteemed founding Director and Counsel, the Honorable Owen McGivern, whose warm friendship, wise counsel and keen sense of humor will be missed by all whose lives he touched. We extend condolences to Joan and their family. General Arthur Gerwin, President Barbara S. Reede, Esq., Secretary
        McGIVERN-Owen. This unique & sensitive man, whose honesty, decency, integrity and down to earth common sense and good humor has contributed to the state, the country and all of us, will be missed but remembered for a long time. Condolences to his wife, Joan, and all the members of his family. Laurence W. Levine
        McGIVERN - Honorable Owen. The Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department, mark with sorrow the passing of their valued friend and former colleague. His spirit and scholarship will serve as his permanent legacy to this Court. Alfred D. Lerner, Presiding Justice
        McGIVERN-Owen. The American Irish Historical Society records the death of our past gold medalist, counsel, and long time Executive Council Member, Judge Owen McGivern, with sorrow at his death, but lasting gratitude for his life. Kevin M. Cahill, M.D. President-General
      