
        REBELL-Harry. CPA. Surrounded by his nine grandchildren, three children and their spouses, Harry Rebell of Manhattan & Mahopac, New York, died peacefully on July 30th, 1998, at the age of 85. A true patriarch, he was devoted to his family. Known for his optimism, integrity, cheerfulness, wisdom and business acumen, he was also a philanthropist committed to the Jewish community. Beloved husband of forty-five years of the late Sylvia, cherished father of Arthur Rebell of Wyckoff, New Jersey, Michael Rebell of Brooklyn, NY and Phyllis Osterman of Stamford, CT., dear father-in-law of Adele Rebell, Sharon Rebell, and Thomas Osterman, adored brother of Mae Zelikow & the late William Rebell, inspirational grandfather of Joshua Rebell, Barbara Rebell Nelson, Daniel Yaverbaum, Laura Rebell, Deborah Rebell, Peter Yaverbaum, Jonathan Rebell, Rachel Yaverbaum and Sarah Rebell. Services will be held at the Plaza Memorial, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New York at 12PM Friday, July 31. The family will be receiving visitors beginning on Saturday at 9 P.M. through Wednesday evening at the Manhattan home of Harry Rebell.
        REBELL-Harry. The entire Solomon Schechter community mourns the death of former Trustee, Harry Rebell. During the School's years of growth, Harry was a voice of wisdom and optimism, encouraging our community to fulfill its vision. His guidance, generous spirit and good cheer will be missed by those of us who worked closely with him. We offer our condolences to his children, Michael and Sharon, Phyllis and Tom, Arthur and Adele and to his grandchildren. May God comfort you through the memories of this righteous man. The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester M. Mac Schwebel, Chairman, Board of Trustees James M. Dubin, Vice Chairman, Board of Trustees Dr. Elliot Spiegel, Headmaster
        REBELL-Harry. We mourn the loss of our dear friend. He lived life to the fullest and served as a mentor to all who had the privilege of knowing him. To his family we extend our heartfelt sympathy. We will always remember and miss his adventurous spirit for living. Gloria and Paul Asnes
      