
        DUBOIS-Joan FitzGerald, 50. Prominent Los Angeles philanthropic executive, died May 20 while on vacation in Canada. A graduate of St. Joseph's College for Women, Brooklyn, and the New York University School of Law, Mrs. DuBois had a distinguished career. Over the past 14 years she became recognized as one of the leading philanthropic executives in the country. Until December, 1996, she was program vice president at the W.M. Keck Foundation, one of the nation's largest foundations. Since then she consulted with major institutions on their philanthropic strategy. Mrs. DuBois was responsible for the Keck Foundation's grant programs in medical research, law and its special Southern California Program. Her collaboration with Howard B. Keck, the Foundation's chairman during her tenure, resulted in the Foundation becoming a recognized national leader in philanthropy, benefiting medical research and legal education. During that time the medical research program focused on significant grants to major institutions with an emphasis on innovative research design in the fields of molecular biology and neuroscience. The Foundation's program in law produced a substantial body of work on legal ethics education during this period, and its Southern California program sought principally to benefit children in its grantmaking to education, the arts and health care. Earlier in her career, she was an attorney and planner for the Children's Defense Fund in New York and Cambridge, Mass. She was one of the original members of The Defense Fund and worked closely with the Hon. Justine Wise Polier and Marion Wright Edelman, the founders. Her work with the District of Columbia Committee of the House of Representatives resulted in the writing and passage of the first mandatory child abuse and neglect reporting law in the United States. That statute served as the model for the National Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Law which set up the National Center on Child Abuse within the DHEW. Active in community affairs, Mrs. DuBois was a sustaining member of the Junior League of Los Angeles and a member of The Blue Ribbon, a support group for the Music Center of Los Angeles County. She is survived by her husband, Peter, of Los Angeles, her parents, Benjamin and Agnes FitzGerald of Mendham, N.J., a sister, Eileen Sudler, also of Mendham, and 10 nieces and nephews.
      