
        KLUGER-Michael. On August 12, 1998. We mourn the passing of Michael Kluger, beloved husband, devoted father and grandfather. He was 76 years old. Mr. Kluger was born in Cracow, Poland. A Holocaust survivor and Talmudic scholar, Mr. Kluger led a Displaced Persons camp of 5,000 people in Salzburg, Austria, prior to emigrating to the U.S. Once here, he became a leader in business, civic and religious circles. He was a founding partner of SKS Associates and actively involved in real estate development and management for the past 27 years. He was also a founder and President of the New Cracow Friendship Society; former President and an active Baal Koreh of the Lake Success Jewish Center; and esteemed member and supporter of the UJA, AKIM, BEIT HALOCHEM and other charitable organizations. He was active in Holocaust education as a speaker and in the American and international gatherings of Holocaust survivors. Mr. Kluger is survived by his beloved wife of 52 years, Rose; his loving sons and daughters-in-law, Lawrence, Addie, Alan and Robin; and his precious grandchildren, Daniel, Allison, Katie, Andrew and Jason. Services today at 11:30 AM at Lake Success Jewish Center, Lakeville Road, Great Neck, NY.
        KLUGER-Michael. The Board of Directors and Members of the New Cracow Friendship Society is deeply saddened by the untimely death of our dear friend and President of our organization, Michael Kluger. His passing left a void in the leadership of our organization. He will be remembered with love and affection and with a sense of loss of a noble life that ended too soon. ''May his soul be bound up in the bond of life''. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Rose who stood by his sickbed day and night and the entire family. ''May God comfort them among the mourners of Zion and Yerushalayim.'' Funeral services on Friday, August 14th, 1998, at 11 A.M. at Lake Success Jewish Center, 354 Lakeville Road, Lake Success, New York. New Cracow Friendship Society
        KLUGER-Michael. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our lifelong friend and partner, Michael Kluger. We will miss his wisdom, humor and anecdotes. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his entire family, who we love as our own. Michelle, Nick, Sharon, Glenn, Lea, and the Children
      