
        SCHEUING-Richard Woodward. Of Locust, NJ, died Aug. 2, 1998 at his residence. He retired in 1985 as executive vice president of Sabin Robbins Paper Co., Cincinnati, after 32 years. He was the originator of the ''Fleet Week'' ceremonies in New York Harbor, starting in 1988. He was the former vice president and director of the National Maritime Historical Assoc. and received several honors and awards from the association. He was former president of the New York Council of the Navy League and a former national vice president of the league. He was vice president & director of the Soldiers, Sailors, Marines and Airmen Club of New York and president of the Twin Lights Historical Society, Highlands, NJ. He was a member of the Naval War College, the Circumnavigators Club, New York; the Naval Institute, Annapolis, MD.; the Canadian Club and Metropolitan Club, New York, and the Atlantic Highlands Yacht Club. He was a World War II Merchant Marine Veteran, with the rank of Captain, and was a recipient of the Navy's Meritorious Public Service Award. He took part in the invasion of Normandy on D-Day. He is survived by his wife, Doris Cridland Scheuing. All services private. Memorial donations may be made to the Navy League of the United States Scholarship Fund, 2300 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, VA. 22201.
        SCHEUING-Captain Richard W., USCGR, (Ret.). The Board of Directors and Members of the Soldier's, Sailor's, Marines' and Airmen's Club deeply regret the passing of their esteemed Vice President and Board Member after a long illness. A Merchant Mariner of great integrity and courage, he served his country aboard a Liberty Ship throughout the hazardous convoy era of World War II and participated in the D-Day landing. In his self-effacing and quiet way, Dick Scheuing was highly effective in his unfailing support of the SSMA Club; for this and for so many other kindnesses, we all owe him our devotion & gratitude. A man of many parts, Richard Scheuing almost single-handedly made ''Fleet Week'' the annual institution that it is today -never forgetting the strong hand he continually lent to the Intrepid Sea-AirSpace Museum. He was, truly, a charitable man. All of us at The Soldier's, Sailor's, Marines' and Airmen's Club express our deep condolences to his widow, Doris. We wish Richard Scheuing calm seas and Godspeed to his safe and eternal harbor. Ivan Obolensky, President
        SCHEUING-Richard W. The Navy League of the United States, New York Council, announces with profound sorrow the passing of its former President, present Director and a member for more than thirty years, Richard W. Scheuing of Locust, NJ on 2 August 1998. During World War II, Mr. Scheuing served in the United States Merchant Marine from 1941 to 1946. He rose from messboy to Navigation Officer/Chief Mate. In 1988 while serving as President of the Council, Mr. Scheuing started what has become known as ''Fleet Week'' in New York. On behalf of the Officers, Directors and Members of the New York Council, our deepest sympathy is extended to his family and legion of friends. Victor T. Gainor, Jr. President New York Council, NLUS
      