
        ORTNER-Sylvia, widow of Melvin Ortner, her high school sweetheart, and beloved daughter of Bess Berkowitz and Mort Clyne, was born on January 8, 1910 in Far Rockaway, New York. On August 3, 1998, surrounded by her loving family, she passed gracefully away in Key Biscayne, Florida. Throughout her life she enjoyed modern and classical dance, theatre, music and art both vicariously and personally. Few people loved culture so and devoted as much time and effort to making art, dance, and music available to the community at large as did Sylvia Ortner, a founder and one of the first Presidents of the Five Towns Music and Arts Foundation. A native New Yorker, she moved to Woodmere, Long Island in the 1940's and through the Foundation brought opera divas, artists, musicians, and writers to the suburbs. For two years she studied at Teacher's College Columbia University. A lifelong educator & proponent of Progressive Education, she first worked at the Little Red Schoolhouse, then served as Principal of the Ethical Culture School, and later taught at the Brandeis School in Lawrence, Long Island. Her specialty and passion was teaching reading to the very young and instilling in them a love of books and literature. She also studied at the Traphagen School of Design and applied her talent in art and design as an interior decorator. Her homes were distinguished by their grace, beauty and truly remarkable openness. Friends, neighbors, even strangers were welcomed with enthusiasm and generosity. Her tireless energy and insatiable zest for life will be long remembered by her family and her many many friends. Sylvia never stopped learning and growing. At the age of fifty she returned to Hofstra University and took great pride in participating in graduation ceremonies & receiving her belated Bachelor of Arts. Within herself Sylvia lived with obdurate dignity in a time & place when a woman could walk down Central Park West wearing white gloves and a pearl necklace. She is survived by her two devoted children Peter Bruce and Toni Ortner and her three much beloved grandchildren: Lisa Michelle Lampe, Lian Margaret Ortner, and Katherine Mao Qun Ortner. The family will celebrate Sylvia's life on August 10th and 11th, and receive visitors at their summer cottage in Southold, New York.
      