
        ROTH-Joseph (Joska). On August 7, 1998. Beloved husband of Carole. Loving father of Andrew and Peter. Cherished father-in-law of Trisha and Noreen. Adored grandfather of Samantha, Suzanna, Nancy, Michael and baby Ryan. Devoted brother-in-law of Sara Barna and Margaret Reti. Caring uncle of Erica and Sid, Judy and Bob, George and Suzie, Ria and Bobby and Steven and Nora. His dignity, integrity and strength and his boundless love and generosity will live in our hearts forever. He will be remembered with respect and admiration for his wisdom and devotion to his family. Always and forever, he will live in our hearts. Services will be held Monday, August 10, 11:15 AM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 331 Amsterdam Ave., New York City. Entombment to follow at the family mausoleum in Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY.
        ROTH-Joseph. Our firm mourns the passing of our beloved and most respected Founder. He was a true inspiration to all whose lives he touched. After his arrival from his native Hungary in 1939, he used his skills as a Dental Technician to launch one of our country's leading jewelry manufacturers. His generosity, kindness and thoughtfulness touched those throughout the world including survivors of the Holocaust and the Hungarian Revolution and those persecuted by Communism. He was a true leader and always a gentleman and he will be deeply missed. Karbra Casting Company
        ROTH-Joseph. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member and Centennial Founder, Joseph Roth. To his beloved wife Carole, to his children Peter and Noreen, Second Generation members, to Andrew and Trisha, and the entire family, our sincere condolences. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        ROTH-Joseph. Our entire firm mourns the passing of the father of our CEO, Peter Thomas Roth. Our thoughts and prayers are with Peter, his mother Carole, his wife Noreen, his son Ryan, and his entire family. June Jacobs, President, Peter Thomas Roth Clinical Skin Care
      