
        HOGAN-William E. New York University Law School professor of law emeritus and a leading thinker in the field of contracts and commercial law, died on July 31 in Montreal, Canada. He was 70 and lived in Southbury, Connecticut and in Longboat Key, Florida. Professor Hogan will be most remembered for the intense, yet good humored Socratic teaching style that made him a legend amongst the thousands of students he taught during his 36 years as a law professor. Professor Hogan began his teaching career at Boston College Law School. In 1960 he took a professorship at Cornell University, where in 1970 he was made the J. Duprat White Professor of Law. In 1981 he left Cornell and joined the faculty at New York University Law School. He retired in 1991. After graduating first in his class from Boston College Law School in 1952, professor Hogan served in the Air Force as a First Lieutenant until 1955. He received his S.J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1962. Professor Hogan was extensively involved in the development of the Uniform Commercial Code and served as a member of the New York State Commission on Uniform State Laws from 1974 to 1991. He served as Vice President of the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws from 1982 to 1983. An active member of the American Bar Association, Professor Hogan was Chairman of the Corporation Banking and Business Section in 1976. He was a life member of the American Law Institute, and worked on the Legal Advisory Committee of the New York Stock Exchange from 1982 to 1985. Professor Hogan had a lengthy list of publications and for two decades nearly every law student in the country was assigned the casebooks. Consumer and Commercial Transactions and Creditors Rights and Secure Transactions Under the Uniform Commercial Code (both co-authored with William D. Warren). He is survived by wife Joanne, children Nancy Rice, Thomas Hogan and Neal Hogan, and grandchildren Kevin Sayles and Jessica Sayles. Memorial donations to be sent to local chapters of the American Red Cross and to Covenant House 733 Breakers Avenue, Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33304.
      