
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. On August 27, 1998. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Congress Financial Corporation. Beloved husband of Melva B. Goldman. Father of William Douglas Lese, Peter Lawrence Lese and Olexa Farrell. Grandfather of Jason, Stephen and William. Brother of Suzanne Brown. Private services at Frank E. Campbell. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to Jewish Foundation for the Righteous, 305 Seventh Avenue, 19th Floor, New York, NY 10001, attention Ms. Stanlee Stahl, Executive Director; American Academy for the Dramatic Arts, 120 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10016, attention Ms. Betty Lawson; Beth Israel Medical Center Development Department, First Ave. at 16th St, New York, NY 10003, attention: Ms. Stafanie Steel; New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center Cardiac Care Unit, 525 East 68th St, NY, NY 10021.
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. With heads bowed, we are shocked and saddened by the sudden loss of our friend, Robert Goldman. A member of the Founders Society, Bob was an ardent supporter of The Open University of Israel. Heartfelt condolences to the Goldman family. May his memory be for a blessing. Irving M. Rosenbaum, National Chair Ingeborg Rennert, New York Chair A. Arthur Sherman, Robert de Rothschild Founders Society Co-Chairmen American Friends of The Open University of Israel
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Congress Financial Corporation and Congress Talcott Corporation passed away on August 27, 1998. The Officers and Employees mourn the loss of their respected colleague with sincere sorrow. His determination, spirit and love of his work will truly be missed. During his lifetime he was devoted to building a small family business into a leading international enterprise. We will above all miss the true gentleman that we all grew to admire and respect. Congress Financial Corporation Congress Talcott Corporation
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. Otterbourg, Steindler, Houston & Rosen, PC, mourns the passing of our friend and colleague Robert I. Goldman, Chairman of the Board of Congress Financial Corporation. We extend our deepest sympathies to his entire family. Bob's business acumen, leadership, wisdom and philanthropy were an inspiration to all of us. He will be deeply missed. Otterbourg, Steindler, Houston & Rosen, PC
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. The director and members of the Commercial Finance Association mourn the loss of its friend of long standing Bob Goldman. He served as director, executive committee member and chairman of several committees. His intelligence, charm and wit will be greatly missed. Irwin Teich, Chairman Richard W. Madresh, President Leonard Machlis, Exec. Director
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. The brokers and staff of Fox Residential Group extend our deepest sympathy to our colleague Olexa Farrell on the untimely death of her father and our friend and to Bob's wife, Melva Buchsbaum.
      