
        PALM-Michael D. The Board of Directors of Classical Action: Performing Arts Against AIDS and Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS extend their heartfelt sympathy to the family, friends and colleagues of Michael Palm, whose leadership and generosity in the fight against HIV/AIDS and in support of gay and lesbian civil rights have set an inspiring standard for everyone who cares deeply about these issues. His extraordinary support of Classical Action over the years has greatly increased our ability to raise funds for AIDS service providers nationwide through the performing arts community. Michael was a man of great personal warmth, generosity and vision. He will be greatly missed. Paul Libin, President Board of Trustees, Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS Charles Hamlen, Exec Dir. Classical Action Performing Arts Against AIDS
        PALM-Michael. The Boards and Staff of the Human Rights Campaign and the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation mourn the passing of our beloved friend, Michael Palm. The Gay and Lesbian movement for equality was much enriched by Michael's strategic vision and generosity. A brilliant and accomplished man, Michael cared little about accolades-he cared only about goals and results. Michael was one of the wisest and finest human beings many of us have known. He went about his philanthropy with a quiet generosity of spirit, but his determination to fight for equality for lesbians and gay men was fierce and strong. His guidance on the fight for AIDS treatment and education has saved many lives. When the history of our movement and the struggle against AIDS is written, our beloved brother Michael will have a prominent place in the story. We will miss you friend. Rest easy.
        PALM-Michael. The Board, staff and members of the Empire State Pride Agenda mourn the death of Michael Palm, a great friend and benefactor. Michael's vision of a future of full equality for gay men and lesbians inspired countless organizations and individuals. His quiet and unassuming leadership and generosity built our community greatly in New York and across the nation. Our heartfelt condolences to his family and wide circle of friends. Sue Cowell, Co-Chair Jeff Soref, Co-Chair Matt Foreman, Exec. Director
        PALM-Michael D. The clients, volunteers, staff and Board of Directors of Gay Men's Health Crisis note with great sorrow the passing of Michael Palm, Senior Vice President of our Board and one of the greatest friends we've ever known. As a benefactor of extraordinary magnanimity, he made possible GMHC's home which is named in his honor. We will think of him and miss him everyday. Mark Robinson Executive Director David Hollander Board Chair
        PALM-Michael. The Staff and Board of Directors of God's Love We Deliver are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of our friend, Michael Palm. Michael was such a gracious and caring benefactor. His extremely generous support of our efforts to help those in need directly enriched the lives of thousands of New Yorkers. We extend our sincere condolences to his family and his many friends and associates. Richard E. Feldman, Board Chair Kathy Spahn, Executive Director
        PALM-Michael D. The many friends and colleagues of Michael D. Palm at the Zurich Centre Group mourn his passing. Michael will be fondly remembered both as a founder of the Company and as our esteemed business partner. He has made an indelible personal and professional contribution to the Company and to each of us with his keen intelligence, humor, generosity and friendship. The Zurich Centre Group
        PALM-Michael. The Brooklyn Academy of Music mourns the loss of our dear friend Michael Palm, a generous supporter and an enthusiast of opera and Les Arts Florissants. Harvey Lichtenstein, President & Executive Producer Joseph V. Melillo Karen Brooks Hopkins Brooklyn Academy of Music (BAM)
        PALM-Michael. Wonderful friend and a giant in our community. His life, his love, his personal strength and his marvelous generosity is his legacy. We will hold him always in our hearts and memory. Stonewall Community Foundation The Directors and Staff
        PALM-Michael. We are blessed by knowing you-your amazing aura will forever endure. Sleep well Fair Prince-Peace Be. Jimmy Roe and the Guys
      