
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation are deeply saddened at the death of Robert I. Goldman, a stalwart supporter, dedicated friend, and devoted member of our Banking and Finance Committee. His commitment to our mission was reflected in his exemplary efforts on behalf of the Jewish people at home & abroad. We will always remember him, not only for his personal generosity, but also for his leadership role as a campaign volunteer. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Melva; his daughter and son-in-law, Olexa and Bowen Farrell, and all the members of the family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Donald H. Layton, Chair, Banking and Finance Div. Stephen D. Solender, Exec. VP
        GOLDMAN-Robert. The officers, members and staff of the American Jewish Committee mourn the death of Robert Goldman, successful businessman, generous philanthropist and longtime member and supporter of AJC. Committed to dialogue between Jews and other religious, ethnic and racial groups, Bob served on AJC's Polish-American Jewish-American Council and funded much of AJC's work with the Ukrainian community both in the United States and abroad. In 1991, AJC's New York Chapter honored Bob with its Stanley M. Isaacs Human Relations Award. We send our heartfelt condolences to the Goldman family. Bruce M. Ramer, President David A. Harris, Executive Director
        GOLDMAN-Robert. The Board of Directors and Staff of The American Friends of the Israel Museum and of The Israel Museum, Jerusalem mourn the sudden death of Robert Goldman, husband of our Executive Committee member and generous supporter, Melva Bucksbaum. Dear Melva and Bob, your love story will remain an inspiration to everyone who knew you. We offer heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Maureen Cogan International Chairman Judy Steinhardt President James Snyder Anne and Jerome Fisher Dir., IM Carolyn Cohen Executive Director, AFIM
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. The Board and Staff of the Jewish Foundation for the Righteous mourn the passing of Robert I. Goldman, a beloved Vice-Chairman of our Board and long-time participant in, and supporter of, our organization. The Jewish Foundation for the Righteous benefited from the wisdom, guidance and generosity of this fine human being and outstanding humanitarian in so many ways. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Melva, and his family. Harvey Schulweis, Chairman Stanlee J. Stahl, Executive Director
        GOLDMAN-Robert. The Board of Trustees and staff at the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our dear friend, Robert I. Goldman. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Melva, his daughter Olexa Farrell, and his two sons William Douglas Lese, and Peter Lawrence Lese. Flora M. Biddle Honorary Chairman Leonard A. Lauder Chairman Joel S. Ehrenkranz President
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Congress Financial Corporation and Congress Talcott Corporation passed away on August 27, 1998. The Officers and Employees mourn the loss of their respected colleague with sincere sorrow. His determination, spirit and love of his work will truly be missed. During his lifetime he was devoted to building a small family business into a leading international enterprise. We will above all miss the true gentleman that we all grew to admire and respect.
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. Otterbourg, Steindler, Houston & Rosen, PC, mourns the passing of our friend and colleague Robert I. Goldman, Chairman of the Board of Congress Financial Corporation. We extend our deepest sympathies to his entire family. Bob's business acumen, leadership, wisdom and philanthropy were an inspiration to all of us. He will be deeply missed. Otterbourg, Steindler, Houston & Rosen, PC
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. The faculty, staff and students of the Harvard Graduate School of Design join me in extending our deepest sympathies to Melva Venecky Bucksbaum, dear friend, benefactor, and member of the School's Visiting Committee, on the sudden and untimely death of her husband, Robert I. Goldman, alumnus of Harvard College, Class of 1954. Peter G. Rowe, Dean, Faculty of Design
        GOLDMAN - Robert I. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum are deeply saddened by the death of Bob Goldman, beloved husband of Trustee Melva Bucksbaum, and Museum Council member. Our hearts go out to their children as they weather this unexpected and tragic loss. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. The director and members of the Commercial Finance Association mourn the loss of its friend of long standing Bob Goldman. He served as director, executive committee member and chairman of several committees. His intelligence, charm and wit will be greatly missed. Irwin Teich, Chairman Richard W. Madresh, President Leonard Machlis, Exec. Director
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. The American Academy of Dramatic Arts mourns the passing of Robert Goldman, an exemplary member of the Board of Trustees. His devoted friendship and wise counsel will be sorely missed by his fellow trustees and by the Academy's administrative staff, faculty and students. Gene Terruso, President
        GOLDMAN-Robert I. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Robert I. Goldman. Bob was a man of quiet strength and great goodness. Our hearts go out to Melva and his children. May his memory be a blessing. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President
      