
        HALBREICH-Stanley I. On August 11, 1998. Beloved husband of Ada. Loving brother of Roslyn Smith and brother-in-law of Robert Smith. Dear uncle of Penny Novick, Amy and Howard Smith, and Sandy Robbins. Services Thursday 9:45AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        HALBREICH-Stanley I. Littlefield, Adams & Company mourns the loss of Stanley I. Halbreich, its President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Mr. Halbreich passed away August 11, 1998. The officers, management, employees and shareholders will miss his devotion, energy, leadership, vision and friendship. Stanley was our guiding force and inspiration. With our deepest respect to his beloved wife, Ada and the rest of his family, the Company's offices in New York and Huber Heights, Ohio will be closed on Thursday, August 13th.
        HALBREICH-Stanley I. The employees and officers of Merchant Factors Corp. deeply mourn the loss of Stanley Halbreich, CEO of Littlefield Adams, our client and friend, whose dream has finally become a reality and has failed to live to enjoy it. Our deepest sympathy to his family and employees of Littlefield Adams. Walter Kaye, President Merchant Factors Corp.
        HALBREICH-Stanley I. Egalitarian and a man without guile who could not say no to a friend in need, and there were many. A sweet, sensitive man whose gruff exterior masked a loving heart. This is written in celebration of his life by his wife, Ada, who knew him best and loved him most.
        HALBREICH-Stanley I. To Stanley: I want you to know how much I loved you and how much I treasured your loyalty, counsel, generosity and love. You will always remain my big brother and dearest friend. May you rest in peace. Michael Balber
        HALBREICH-Stanley I. Truly a sensitive man and my friend. I did not see him as often as I would have liked to. No matter how busy he was, he was always there for me. I loved him and I will miss him. Allen, his friend.
        HALBREICH-Stanley I. To Stanley Dear, We love you and will think of you always. May you rest in peace. Roslyn and Robert Smith Penny, Amy and Howard
        HALBREICH-Stanley. To Ada, thoughts and prayers are with you. Florence, Marilyn and Sonny
      