
        BIASIN-Gian-Paolo. Professor of Italian Studies at the University of California, Berkeley since 1981 died Monday, August 24, 1998 after two years of a courageous struggle with cancer. He is survived by his devoted wife and son, Rita and Giovanni of Berkeley, California, and in Italy by his loving mother, two brothers and a sister. He was a native of Italy (Sassuolo) where in 1956 he graduated from the University of Modena with a doctoral degree in Jurisprudence. He came to the USA in 1957 and here he continued his studies in Political Science and then in humane letters, earning the Ph.D. Degree in Romance Languages & Literature at The Johns Hopkins University (1964). Before joining the faculty at UC, Berkeley, he had taught at Cornell University and The University of Texas (Austin). A brilliant teacher and lecturer, much admired and beloved by his students, Professor Biasin was also a scholar and critic of international fame; during his academic career he received signal honors from several European and American centers of learning. In addition, he was passionately active in reaching out to the San Francisco and Bay Area ItalianAmerican community at large. In this respect, he was a frequent speaker, elegant, accessible and informative, at S.F.'s Institute of Italian Culture and at socio-cultural clubs such as ''The Cenacolo'' and ''The Leonardo da Vinci Society''. He was no less passionate about good food and the Italian cuisine, attested by the fact that he was the chief delegate of the San Francisco chapter of Italy's prestigious Accademia della Cucina. Indeed, the theme of food in literature was central to a number of his highly original and illuminating critical studies. But his range of thematic interests was wide, as can be seen by his perceptive use of interdisciplinary approaches and methods in his many writings, beginning with his very first book, ''The Smile of the Gods'' (1968). There will be a funeral Mass at 10:00AM, Friday, August 28, at the Parish Hall of Saint Mary Magdalena Church in Berkeley, 2005 Berryman Street, Tel. 510-526-4811.
      