
        GRUSS-Regina. Passed away peacefully on Thursday, July 30, at the age of 100. Beloved wife of the late Oscar Gruss, founder of Oscar Gruss & Son Incorporated, member firm of the New York Stock Exchange. Beloved and devoted mother of Emanuel Gruss, Elizabeth Goldberg and the late Olga Gruss Lewin, aunt of Alicia Schwieger, mother-in-law of Riane Gruss, grandmother of Tamar and Steve Olitsky, Daniel and April Goldberg, the late Ariel Goldberg, Andrew and Marina Lewin, Clement and Susan Lewin, Leslie Gruss and Michael Rosen, and Brenda Gruss and Daniel Hirsch, and great aunt of Ian and AnneFrancoise Schwieger, and Jeremy and Cindy Schwieger. She is also survived by 11 great-grandchildren, two great-grandnephews and two great-grandnieces Oren, Jonathan, Leni, Joshua, Nathaniel, Sylvana, Sarah, Jacob, Shaina, Ripton, Morgan, Jonathan, Irene, Aidan and Lara. Mrs. Gruss was the recipient of The Jewish Museum's Mayer Sulzberger Award in recognition of her interest in support of art and Jewish culture. Services will be held Sunday, August 2, at 1:45 P.M., at The Riverside, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. The family requests that no flowers be sent and that any contributions be made to the charity of your choice.
        GRUSS-Regina. The staff and Trustees of The Jewish Museum mourn the loss of our dearly beloved friend Regina Gruss, a major contributor to the Museum and its collection, and the recipient of the Museum's Mayer Sulzberg Award for distinction in Jewish culture. Her Judaism, appreciation of art, generosity, and fondness for the staff combined to enable the acquisition of major artworks, such as paintings by Ben Shahn and David Bomberg, and support of important exhibitions, including ''Golem! Danger, Deliverance, and Art.'' Even in her 100th year, she continued to visit the Museum and touched us with her enthusiasm and charm. We will miss her very much, and convey our deep condolences to her children Betty Goldberg, Emmanuel Gruss and Ria Gruss, and their entire family. Joan Rosenbaum Helen Goldsmith Menschel Dir. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Phillip A. Alskawy, President
        GRUSS-Regina. Oscar Gruss & Son Incorporated honors the special life and mourns the death of Regina, a magical woman, the wife of Oscar and the mother of Mike, Betty and the late Olga. We look to carry forward the traditions of integrity and respect that Oscar and Regina brought to ourfirm, which they founded as Dom Bankowy O. Gruss in Lvov, Poland, in 1918.
      