
        BYERS-David. 77. A nationallyknown architectural and decorative arts consultant and a muchadmired contributor to the social and cultural life of Atlanta-and wherever he landed in his travelsdied of heart failure August 19 at Atlanta's Piedmont Hospital. A gentleman of wry, good humor, when asked what he did, Mr. Byers would answer, ''I help people with their problems. That is, their interior design needs''. His knowledge of the decorative arts was encyclopedic, spanning several centuries in England, the Continent and America. His energy was indefatigable as he journeyed around the country for his clients. His rooms were so admired that he assisted several generations of the same family in bringing elegance, beauty, comfort and magic to their homes. Based in Atlanta, Mr. Byers worked in decorative arts for more than 40 years, first at the W.E. Browne Decorating Company and then in private practice. During those years, he was a consultant to hundreds of private residences across the country and for numerous landmarks. They include The White House, Washington, D.C., (1970s); Diplomatic Reception Rooms, State Department, Washington, D.C. (1970s); Georgia Governor's Mansion, Atlanta; Mississippi Governor's Mansion, Jackson; The Boston Atheneum; Wright Stanley House, New Bern, N.C.; Edgewater, Barrytown, N.Y.; Roper House, Charleston, S.C.; Villa Albicini, Macon, Ga.; and the Baltimore Block Headquarters of the Georgia Trust for Historic Preservation. Mr. Byers assisted the Metropolitan Museum of Art with a 19th century furniture exhibition in 1968. He also designed the installation of the Philip Shutze Collection in the Edward H. Inman House at the Atlanta History Center. His rooms have been featured in Classic Atlanta and on the cover of The Most Beautiful Rooms in America. In spite of his work on these noteworthy assignments, Mr. Byers was always modest about his projects. Born and raised in Baltimore, Maryland, Mr. Byers was the younger son of Dr. and Mrs. Horace Byers. He studied architecture at the University of Virginia. He became a resident of Atlanta in 1945 when he joined the W.E. Browne Decorating Company. Mr. Byers retired as a shareholder and vice president when the noted Peachtree Street decorating company began to close in the late 1980s. Throughout his life, he was an ardent supporter of the Decorative Arts Trust and served on its board. Mr. Byers is survived by his sister, Shirley Byers of Baltimore, Maryland, and his cousins, friends and clients throughout the South and the nation. Memorial donations can be made to the David R. Byers Fund, Decorative Arts Trust, 106 Bainbridge Street, Philadelphia, PA 19147. A memorial service will be held at 3:00 p.m. on Wednesday, August 26 at All Saints Episcopal Church, 634 West Peachtree Street, Atlanta. Historical H.M. Patterson & Son, Spring Hill Chapel, 404-876-1022.
      