
        ANDERSON-Paul J., physician, journal editor, educator. Died peacefully, at home in New York on Tuesday August 11, 1998 after a brief battle with cancer. His energy, intelligence, creativity, charm and wit will be remembered by his children and the friends, colleagues, students and countless others whose lives he touched. Survived by sons Jon, Colin and Kjell, and daughter Rebecca, all of New York. Donations in his memory may be made to the World Monuments Fund, 949 Park Av, NY, NY 10028. A memorial service is planned for September in New York City, notice forthcoming.
        ANDERSON-Paul J., MD. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague Paul J. Anderson, MD, clinical professor in the Lillian and Henry M. Stratton-Hans Popper Department of Pathology, and in the Estelle and Daniel Maggin Department of Neurology, who was associated with Mount Sinai for more than four decades. Dr. Anderson received his medical degree, cum laude, from the University of Chicago in 1953, and following an internship at Philadelphia General Hospital, he completed residency training in both neurology and pathology at The Mount Sinai Hospital. He went on to serve Mount Sinai in numerous capacities including nearly 30 years as chief of the Division of Neuropathology and as Associate Dean for University Affairs, a position in which he played a major role in the development of the School of Medicine. Dr. Anderson embodied a rare combination of broad knowledge of medical theory, scientific rigor, and wide clinical experience. A gifted educator, he was a fourtime recipient of Mount Sinai's Certificate of Merit for Excellence in Teaching. He also was a prolific writer who authored and co-authored more than 100 scientific articles and four books, and served for two decades as Editor-In-Chief of the Journal of Histochemistry and Cytochemistry and as Editor of the Journal of Neuropathology and Experimental Neurology. He will be fondly remembered by all who knew him and his loss will be keenly felt. We extend our sincerest condolences to his entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Alan L. Schiller, MD, President, Medical Board
        ANDERSON-Paul J., M.D. The Mount Sinai Association of the Attending Staff mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague. Dr. Anderson, Clinical Professor of Neuropathology and a member of our staff since 1954, was Chief of Neuropathology for almost 30 years and also served as Associate Dean for University Affairs. He was highly respected for his commitment to research, writing and teaching in his field and for his clinical expertise. He was a devoted mentor to his students and will be remembered for his dynamic zest for life. We extend our sympathy to his entire family. Peter H. Rubin, M.D., President Lynda Mandell, M.D., Secretary Amy J. Weinstein, Administrator
        ANDERSON-Paul J., M.D. The Department of Pathology of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine notes with great sadness the passing of our colleague, Paul J. Anderson, M.D., former Director of the Neuropathology Division and member of this department for 33 years. He was a gifted diagnostic neuropathologist who inspired a generation of medical students and residents with his innovative approaches to teaching. We offer sincere condolences to his family. Alan L.Schiller, M.D., Chairman Daniel P. Perl, M.D. Director Neuropathology Division
        ANDERSON-Paul J., M.D. Andy, love, thank you for five unexpected, caring years. You made the sun shine for me. I won't forget. Mimi
      