
        OLSEN-A. William, Jr., who led The Hotchkiss School as headmaster from 1960 to 1981, died July 30 at his home in Lakeville, Connecticut. Mr. Olsen was born in Tientsin, China, on May 15, 1921. He was the son of the late Albert W. Olsen and Gertrude Richards Olsen, and the family lived in China, where the senior Olsen was engaged in an import-export business. Mr. Olsen was graduated from The Hotchkiss School in 1939 and from Yale University in 1943, where he was manager of the Yale football team and a member of the Whiffenpoof Singing Group. He attended Columbia & received a Master's Degree in history from that university in 1948. He began his teaching career at Hotchkiss in 1945 and spent five years as a teacher of English and History at Deerfield Academy. In 1953, he returned to his alma mater to teach English and work in admissions. In 1960, he was named the sixth headmaster of Hotchkiss and presided over that instituion for the next two decades. Under his wise and careful stewardship, the School prospered and became coeducational in 1974. In addition to his wife, Jean Rohrbach Olsen, he is survived by a daughter, Liza Olsen Waters, and three grandchildren, William Doubleday Waters, James Stryker Waters, and Jessica Dann Waters, all of Andover, Massachusetts; a twin sister, Mrs. Elizabeth Olsen Horne of New London, New Hampshire, and another sister, Mrs. Sally Olsen Davis, also of New London. A 2:00 PM memorial service will be held Wednesday, August 5th at the Salisbury Congregational Church in Salisbury, Connecticut. A reception for family and friends will immediately follow the service. In lieu of flowers, donations in memory of Mr. Olsen may be sent to existing funds at The Forman School in Litchfield, Connecticut; The Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Connecticut; Sharon Hospital in Sharon, Connecticut; and The Berkshire - Taconic Community Foundation in Great Barrington, Massachusetts. For information, Newkirk-Palmer Funeral Home of Lakeville, Connecticut.
      