
        MICKANS-Viktorija. Dentist, psychiatrist, psychoanalyst, artist, Latvian patriot, died peacefully on August 11 in her 81st year. Born March 25, 1917, in Nautreni, Latvia, the daughter of Joachims and Helena (Mugins) Mickans. Her life and work reflected the fate of her beloved country. As a young woman, she graduated from Rezeknes Teacher's College with highest honors. Her intellectual and emotional energies were directed to building a strong and democratic Latvia. During the horrors of the Soviet and Nazi occupations, she continued her work until forced to flee. As a displaced person she came to the realization that her contribution to the general welfare of humanity lay in the study of medicine. Again, under the most difficult of conditions, she completed her dental and medical degrees, graduating from the University of Munich with highest honors. In 1951, she arrived in New York and interned at Greenpoint Hospital, Brooklyn. She completed her residency in psychiatry at Bellevue Hospital. For the next almost four decades, she worked as a staff psychiatrist for the Catholic Charities Guidance Institute; the Bureau of Child Guidance, NYC Board of Education, Psychiatrist, Family Court, NYC; and as a psychoanalyst for the American Institute of Psychoanalysis as well as the Karen Horney Clinic. She was a Fellow of the American Geriatrics Society and of the American Acadmy of Psychoanalysis. Her memberships included the AMA; American Psychiatric Association, Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis, the New York Council of Child Psychiatry and the Association for the Advancement of Psychotherapy. Her commitment to Latvia was reflected in her ever generous support of Latvian organizations and philanthropies in the diaspora. Since 1991, her great energies were directed to supporting educational endeavors in the newly free Latvian Republic. A deep religiosity informed her life and work. She is survived by cousins in Latvia, her beloved godson Mikelis Svilans (Ottawa, Canada) and many, many friends. She is lovingly remembered by Dr. Rita D'Angelo and Dr. Astrida I. Butners, who provided care and support in her final difficult year. In Latvian: vieglas smiltis, mila Viktorija. Friends may call Monday, 6-9 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday, 10 AM, Our Saviour R.C. Church, Park Ave. at 38th Street. Interment St. Charles Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY.
      