
        LEFF-Lillian Wiesen. Peacefully and bravely, in her 99th year. Our beloved ''Mama Cookie'' was a true humanitarian, supporter of many needy people, including artists, dancers, physical therapists, and a source of strength to her family and friends. She was the daughter of Max and Rose Wiesen, cherished wife of the late Phillip Leff, beloved mother of Ruth and Jerome A. Siegel and Joseph and Juanita Leff. Grandmother of Michael and Laurence Levin, Stephen and Amy Levin, Robin Kantrowitz, William and Sharon Levin, Henry Siegel, Elizabeth and David Carpenter, Carol Siegel, Julie and Jeffrey Satinover and Valerie and Joseph Godden. Great-grandmother of Adam, Max, Alex, Sebastien, Samantha, Eli, Noah, Sarah Emily, Rachel, Matthew, David, Emma, Sarah Kate, Annie and Jenny. Dear sister of Eleanor Leff and Irving Wiesen and sister-in-law of Tobie, Shirley and Mae Wiesen. ''Cookie'' was a former member of the Jewish Theological Seminary Board of Overseers and active with The United Jewish Appeal, The National Council of Jewish Women and Brandeis University. She received the Haym Solomon Award from the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith ''For her unswerving dedication to humanitarian and spiritual values.'' Lilly was a fine pianist and gave concerts in Town Hall and Palm Beach. Cookie believed in living life to the fullest. With her marvelous sense of humor, great compassion, love of art, dancing, music and everything exciting and interesting, she was a joy to be with. This darling, ''fey'', loving great-grandmother, grandmother and mother will be sorely missed, but she will live on in our hearts forever. Funeral service will be held Sunday, August 16th, 11 am at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87 Street & Madison Avenue, NYC. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to the 92nd St. ''Y''.
        LEFF-Lillian. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Lillian Leff, a generous supporter of our Women's Campaign and whose family has been instrumental in so many ways in our organization's success. Currently, Mrs. Leff's son, Joseph is a member of UJA-Federation's Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board of the 92nd Street Y, a UJA-Federation beneficiary. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Joseph and his wife, Juanita; Mrs. Leff's daughter, Ruth Siegel, and her husband, Jerome; her grandchildren; great-grandchildren and all the members of this extraordinary family. Judith Stern Peck Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solendar, Exec. VP Susan K. Stern Chair, Women's Campaign
        LEFF-Lillian Wiesen. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Lillian Wiesen Leff, mother of Joseph Leff, Chairman of the Board and former President of the Y. Our hearts and prayers go out to Lillian's son and daughter-inlaw, Joseph and Juanita Leff, daughter and son-in-law, Ruth and Jerome A. Siegel, her brothers and sisters, as well as her nine grandchildren and fifteen greatgrandchildren. She will be missed by all who knew her. Philip Milstein, President Sol Adler, Executive Director
        LEFFLILLIAN ST#
      