
        MANN-Irving. Dad/Irving, You were a most special father and devoted grandfather. You taught us all to be strong, independent, and hard-working, but also how to laugh and enjoy life. You and Mom/Nanni showed us the true meaning of love. During your fiftynine years together, your unending devotion to each other warmed our hearts. We will never forget you. Your words of wisdom, encouragement and advice will follow us all through our lives. Rest peacefully and know how much you were loved. Meryl, Michael, Betsy and Adam
        MANN-Irving. On September 27, 1998. Beloved husband of Marion, loving father of Bobby and Meryl, Jeffrey and Ann, and Michael and Meryl. Adored grandfather of Randy, Alex, David, Denise, Tracy, Betsy, and Adam. Services ''Boulevard - Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island, at 9 A.M. today.
        MANN-Irving. On behalf of the Kaplan Comprehensive Cancer Center of the NYU Medical Center, we mourn the loss of Irving Mann, father of our good friend and supporter, Jeff Mann. Irving, in his humble and quiet way, raised wonderful children and grandchildren who continue the traditions of the Mann family. May the almighty bless his soul for years to come. We wish comfort to the entire Mann family.
        MANN-Irving. Few people over 80 years of age are like Irving Mann. A true humanitarian, father, grandfather, uncle, husband and human being. He raised the finest children and grandchildren. May he be with Hashem for all his good deeds. Irving was a quiet man, a humble man and a great man. We will miss him dearly. American and International Friends of Rambam Medical Center, Haifa, Israel
        MANN-Irving. To our dear friend and supporter Jeff: We know how much you and your brothers will miss your father. He was an inspiration for all of you and the cornerstone of the Mann family. May his soul rest in peace for eternity. At the beginning of this New Year we wish only health, success and happiness to the Mann family. American Friends of K'var Chabad
        MANN-Irving. Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York mourn the loss of Irving Mann, father of Jeff Mann, and his brothers Bobby and Michael. Irving was a special quiet man, someone with special attributes that no one will ever forget. We pay our respect to the entire Mann family. A great loss has occurred and we will never forget this great human being. May his soul rest in peace.
        MANN-Irving. A true mentch. An individual larger in size than the size of his physical body, but more powerful than anyone we know today. May Hashem take his soul and may people remember the good work and friendship of Irving Mann, a true humanitarian and wonderful person. We will deeply miss him. Lubavitch Youth Movement
        MANN-Irving. Our deepest sympathy to the Mann family on the loss of their patriarch, Irving Mann. A leader in the apparel and real estate industries. A true humanitarian and friend to us all. We will always miss his guidance. Than God that the tradition will continue with his wonderful sons and his family. UJA Federation
        MANN-Irving. To Meryl and Michael and family, our heartfelt sympathy for your loss. We certainly share your sorrow. Time has a way of helping us not to forget, but to remember without pain. May that time come quickly for all of you. Fern, Lowell, Greg, Russ and Cory
        MANN-Irving. A unique individual and benefactor to many charitable causes. He and his entire family have been a major force in the real estate and apparel industries for more than fifty years. A true loss to the people of America and the state of Israel. American ORT
        MANN-Irving. We grieve with our children, Michael, Meryl, Betsy and Adam. We share Marion's pain and send deepest condolences to all the Mann families on the loss of a most precious and special man. Helene and Leonard Spring
        MANN-Irving. Beloved & devoted husband, father, and grandfather. Your strength, wisdom & love has always been an inspiration to us all. We will miss you more than words can ever say. Our love for you will be in our hearts forever. Ann, Jeffrey, Denise and Tracey
        MANN-Irving. We offer our most sincere condolences and love to Michael Mann and his family. Your father's cherished memory will serve as your legacy for the rest of your life. Susan, Steven, Logan and Cameron Levkoff
        MANN-Irving. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        MANN-Irving. You are and will forever be loved and missed more than you will ever know. A very special person who will always be a part of our lives. Meryl, Bobby, Randy, Alex and David
      