
        GOLDBERG-(Seff) Viola, at 92. Beloved wife of the late Henry Goldberg and the late Manny Seff. Devoted mother of Kate & Gerry Beswick, of London, and Vicki Winteringham. Loving grandmother of Kefi Beswick, affectionate stepmother of Dr. William Ruberman and the late Janet Ruberman. Step-grandmother of Dr. Louise and Arie Buckheister and Daniel and Ann Ruberman. Survived by five great step-grandchildren. A woman of great charm, intelligence and beauty, she devoted her time and energy to relationships with family and friends, the pursuit of art and learning & an intense involvement in philanthropic causes. She was a member of the Board of Trustees of Beth Israel Hospital where she was actively involved in developing innovative programs in hospice care & in the hospital nursing school. Funeral services will be held on Monday, September 28 at 9:30 A.M., at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Beth Israel Medical Center.
        GOLDBERG-Viola. With profound sorrow, the entire Beth Israel Medical Center family mourns the passing of Viola Goldberg, who, like her late husband Henry, served as a member of our Board of Trustees and was a cherished supporter of many of the medical center's programs and services, including the Phillips Beth Israel School of Nursing. Promoting nursing education and training in particular, Mrs. Goldberg's generosity enabled many individuals to pursue careers in nursing through scholarships and awards. She also supported the Jacob Perlow Hospice, establishing a homecare fund to help those in need. We extend our deepest sympathy to her daughters, Kate Beswick and Victoria Winteringham, the entire Goldberg family and all who loved her. She will be greatly missed. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew E. Fink, MD, President and CEO Jerome S. Breslaw, MD, President Medical Board Cynthia Chesner, R.N., M.A., Ed.D. Dean, Phillips Beth Israel School of Nursing. Paul Brenner, Executive Director Jacob Perlow Hospice
      