
        MCNAMARA-Dan Goodrich, M.D. died at his home in Houston on September 9, 1998. He was born on October 19, 1922 in Waco, Texas to the late John Bolivar McNamara and Alice Battle McNamara. Dr. McNamara was a graduate of Baylor University and Baylor college of Medicine. He served his internship at The Medical Center in Jersey City, New Jersey and his residency in pediatrics at Hermann Hospital in Houston and the Children's Hospital in St. Louis, Missouri. He was a Fellow in Pediatric Cardiology at the Johns Hopkins Hospital under Dr. Helen Taussig. Dr. McNamara served in the military at the United States Naval Hospital in Quantico, Virginia. In 1954 he returned to Houston and joined the Department of Pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine as an Assistant Professor and formed the Division of Pediatric Cardiology within the Department of Pediatrics. He was promoted to Professor in 1969 and at the time of his death was Emeritus Chief of Pediatric Cardiology at Texas Children's Hospital. Dr. McNamara established the standards and the environment which led to the current outstanding program in pediatric cardiology at Texas Children's Hospital. Dr McNamara was active as a Diplomate, Fellow and member in a number of professional boards and societies which include the American Board of Pediatrics, American Academy of Pediatrics, American College of Cardiology, American Pediatric Society, Beta chapter of Alpha Omega Alpha, Irish & American Pediatric Society, Association of European Pediatric Cardiologists, Cardiac Society of Australia & New Zealand, Harris County Medical Society and the American Medical Association. He seved as president of the American College of Cardiology (1981-1982); was a member of the Executive Committee of Texas Children's Hospital (1986-1988); and was Chief of Medical Department of Texas Children's Hospital (1986-1988). Dr McNamara trained an entire generation of physicians including more than thirty-five current heads of departments in repected hospitals and medical institutions around the world. He was an active member of Christ Church Cathedral for more than fifty years and served several terms on the Vestry. Dr. McNamara was a member of Houston Country Club and Texas Corinthian Yacht Club. Dr. McNamara received many honors during his distinguished career in medicine including the Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1981 from Baylor College of Medicine; Distinguished Alumnus Award from Baylor University; Distinguished Fellow Award form the American College of Cardiology in 1990; Founder's Award, Cardiology Section, American Academy of Pediatrics in 1990; The Arnold J. Rudolph Baylor Pediatric Award for Lifetime Excellence in Teaching in 1997; and Master of American College of Cardiology Award in 1990. Dr. McNamara authored and co-authored nearly three hundred articles and textbooks during his career and was an eminent consultant throughout his career with colleagues around the world. The prestigious teaching award in Pediatric Cardiology at Baylor College of Medicine was named for Dr. McNamara in 1997. Dr. McNamara is survived by a distinguished medical career which benefited countless patients, a multitude of friends who deeply respected his compassion for his fellow man and a devoted family, including his wife Kate Schweppe McNamara; brother John Bolivar McNamara and wife Nancy of Waco and his sister Alice McNamara Harwell of Waco. He was preceded in death by his brother Guy B. McNamara. Dr. McNamara is also survived by daughter Alice Goodrich McNamara of Austin, Texas; daughter Ann and husband David Duclos of Middlebury, Vermont; daughter Mary and husband Christian Tashjian of Woodstock, New York; son Dan G. McNamara, Jr and wife Joan of Austin, Texas; son Robert Weir McNamara and wife Judith of Forth Worth, Texas; step-children Kate Sharp Farris and husband Dr Glen Woody Farris; Dudley C. Sharp III and wife Jane; M.H. Palmer Moldawer and wife Susanna; and brother-in-law Dr. H. Irving Schweppe, Jr and wife Pauline. Dr. McNamara is also survived by twelve grandchildren. Doctor McNamara's family is deeply grateful for the superior care and devoted vigilance by Dr. Stanley Appel, Dr. William Spencer and Dr. Dennis Hamil. The family is at home at 3711 San Felipe in Houston. Memorial services will be at 10:30AM on Saturday, September 12, 1998 at Christ Church Cathedral, 1117 Texas Avenue in Houston with , The Very Reverend Walter H. Taylor and The Reverend Canon Betty C. Adam officiating. Interment will be at The Cathedral and the family will receive friends at 3711 San Felipe following the memorial service. Honorary Pallbearers will be the staff of the Department of Pediatric Cardiology at Baylor College of Medicine and Texas Children's Hospital. Pallbearers will be Captain David Adams of Key West, Florida; Mr. Edward Block of Key West, Florida; Dr. Timothy Bricker, Captain Earl Buckwalter of Key West, Florida; Dr. E Lillo Crain, Jr; Mr James A Elkins, Jr; Mr. Hal Foster; Mr. Wiley Hammersmith; Dr. Charles Mullins; Dr. Michael Nihill; Dr Joseph Reeves; Dr. Harvey Rosenthal; Dr. Thomas Vargo; Mr. F. Carrington Weems; Mr. Herbert Wells and Mr. David W. Wolkowsky of Key West, Florida. For those who wish, memorials may be sent in Dr. McNamara's honor to The Division of Pediatric Cardiology, 2-2280; Texas Children's Hospital, 6621 Fannnin, Houston, Texas 77030.
      