
        MAASS-Richard, 79. Of Purchase, New York, died September 10, of cancer. Mr. Maass was born May 20, 1919 in Baltimore, Maryland to Arthur Leopold Maass and Selma Rosenheim Maass. He is survived by his devoted wife of 55 years, Dolly Lederer Maass, a brother Arthur Aaron Maass of Boston, sons Douglas O. of Sleepy Hollow, NY and R. Andrew of Jackson, Mississippi, four grandchildren, Aaron, Ethan and Kern Maass and Annie Maass Halpin, one great grandson Michael Andrew Halpin. A memorial service will be held at Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Plains, NY, Monday, September 14, 1 P.M. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to Purchase College (SUNY) Foundation Scholarship Fund.
        MAASS-Richard. Words alone cannot convey the wisdom, conviction or achievements of Richie Maass, our dear friend, colleague and former Chair. Our esteem for Richie was shared by all who worked closely with him. Countless others benefited from his commitment to see that human rights protections must be universal. We shall all miss him profoundly. Felice Gaer, Director Leo Nevas, Chair on behalf of the Administrative Council of the Jacob Blaustein Institute for Human Rights of the American Jewish Committee
        MAASS-Richard. The Jacob Blaustein Institute for the Advancement of Human Rights mourns the death of Richard Maass, a remarkable and tireless leader and advocate on behalf of international human rights. Our organization benefited from his years of devoted service as its Chairman and as a member of its Administrative Council. We shall miss greatly our loss of a cherished friend and a wonderful human being. We send our deepest condolences to his beloved wife Dolly and his family. David Hirschhorn on Behalf of the Jacob Blaustein Family
        MAASS-Richard. Congregation Kol Ami of White Plains, New York, records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member, and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Memorial Service Monday 1 PM, September 14 at Congregation Kol Ami. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Cantor Annie Bornstein-Howard Mark A. Hershey, President
      