
        LeCOMPTE-Philip M. M.D., age 90, of Lexington, MA. formerly of Newton Centre, died Tuesday, September 15 at Brookhaven, 1010 Waltham Street, Lexington, MA. Born in Binghamton, New York, October 4, 1907. he was the son of Irville Charles LeCompte and Harriet Bernice Maclachlan. Magna Cum Laude graduate of the University of Minnesota and Phi Beta Kappa, he received his medical degree from Yale Medical School, 1936, where he was elected to two honorary medical societies, Alpha Omega Alpha and Sigma Xi. In 1939, he married Jean Sykes, of Conifer, New York at nearby Lake Massawepie. The LeCompte's have summered in the Adirondacks for many years. He then spent a year with Dr. Walter B. Cannon at his Harvard Physiology Laboratory. In 1940, he returned to teaching at Yale and also served as pathologist at Fairfield State Hospital. Dr. LeCompte was Chief of Pathology at the Faulkner Hospital for over thirty years until his retirement in 1974. The pathology laboratory at the new Faulker Hospital is known as ''The Doctor Philip M. LeCompte Laboratory''. He received international recognition for his research in diabetes mellitus and wrote numerous articles and chapters on the subject. In 1966, he co-authored the medical textbook, ''The Pathology of Diabetes Mellitus'' with Dr. Shields Warren and Dr. Merle Legg. After his retirement, he held a faculty appointment at Tuft's University School of Medicine and turned his attention to research and teaching in gastroenterology and co-authored several papers with young investigators. Dr. LeCompte loved medicine and was a role model for young physicians. He was a founding trustee of the Countway Medical Library and was a member of Physicians for Social Responsibility and Physicians Forum. Dr. LeCompte held strong opinions about politics and often shared his liberal views in Letters to the Editor. In 1947, he was elected the first Chairman of the Newton Chapter of Americans for Democratic Action. He is survived by his wife, Jean, his daughter, Anne LeCompte Fisher, his son, Andrew, Philip LeCompte and three grandchildren. The services will be private. Memorials in Dr. LeCompte's name may be made to the Faulkner Hospital, 1153 Centre St, Jamaica Plain, MA 02130 or to Planned Parenthood League of Massachusetts at 1055 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, MA 02215.
      