
        MALLOY-Edwin A. On September 5, 1998. Beloved husband of Susan. Devoted father of Jennifer Combs and Timon. Loving grandfather of Meredith Combs. Dear brother of Howard and Jospeh Malloy and Tobene Rosenthal. Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Service Wednesday, September 9, 2 PM, Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering, The Solid Tumor Group.
        MALLOY-Edwin A. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion express sincerest condolences on the death of Edwin A. Malloy, dedicated honorary member of the Board of Governors. Since 1975, as a loyal Governor, Vice Chair, and honorary Governor, Edwin served the College-Institute with integrity and utmost sincerity. As Chair of the Building Committee for the New York School, Edwin's scrupulous guidance was marked by pragmatism and devotion. Under his quiet but forceful leadership, the complex task of translating blueprints and plans into a handsome and functional edifice was completed with expedition and economy. To this and every task he gave unstintingly of his time, knowledge and experience. His sound judgement and admirable taste have earned him the gratitude of students, faculty and administration who are the beneficiaries of his dedicated work. To his beloved wife Susan, a member of the Exhibitions Advisory Committee of the New York School, and their dear children Jennifer and Timon we express our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory be a comfort to all those who mourn him. May God comfort them among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman President Dr. Alfred Gottschalk Chancellor Burton Lehman, Chair Board of Governors Rabbi Aaron Panken, Dean New York School
        MALLOY-Edwin A. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Edwin A. Malloy, a leader in the Jewish community, and a longtime supporter of the Real Estate & Allied Trades division. He was a man of honor, whose honesty, intelligence, and achievement were as well known in business as in philanthropy. Descended from a family who pioneered UJA-Federation's development, Edwin's leadership extended to many communal organizations, such as the Educational Alliance, Congregation Emanuel, and Hebrew Union College. Our deepest sympathies go to: his wife, Susan; his son, Timon, a board member of the Educational Alliance; his daughter, Jennifer; his brother, Howard; his sister, Tobene Rosenthal; his granddaughter, Meredith; and to the entire family. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Andrew J. Singer, Chair, Real Estate & Allied Trades Div Stephen D. Solender, Exec. VP
        MALLOY-Edwin A. On September 5, 1998. Juniata College Trustees, Alumni, Faculty, Staff, Students and Friends, mourn the loss of a compassionate colleague. A dedicated servant to Juniata College, his service and philanthopy will be remembered with gratitude. A member of The Juniata College Board of Trustees for 20 years, his guidance and advice were vital to Juniata's success. The entire College Community, particularly students, benefitted from his generous philanthropy. In recognition of the many donations that he and his wife, Susan Rabinowitz Malloy, have given to The College, a wing in the recently renovated Juniata College Museum of Art was named in their honor. We are eternally grateful to have been blessed by his acquaintance, his leadership, and his generosity. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Susan, and his entire family. Thomas R. Keeple, President John Mcn. Cramer, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        MALLOY-Edwin A. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York are deeply saddened at the untimely loss of one of our most dedicated and loyal Vice Presidents. In his special quiet manner, he brought his wise counsel, honesty and ever constant support of and belief in our goals. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife Susan, devoted children Timon and Jennifer, precious granddaughter Meredith, dearest brother Howard Malloy and dearest sister Tobene Rosenthal. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President
        MALLOY-Edwin. The trustees, staff and musicians of the Marlboro Music School and Festival mourn the loss of their good friend and fellow trustee and express their deepest sympathy to his family. For almost a decade, Edwin Malloy was a valued trustee who provided wisdom and guidance to the Marlboro Music community. His integrity, creativity and vitality will continue to be an inspiration to us all. We will miss his counsel and warm friendship. Stephen Stamas, Chairman Board of Trustees Marlboro Music School and Festival
        MALLOY-Edwin A. The Officers and Board of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations note with deep sadness the death of a devoted friend and colleague. Throughout his lifetime, Ed served Reform Judaism with caring concern and dedication to the great ideals of our faith. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his loving wife, Susan, his children, and all his loved ones. Jerome H. Somers, Chairman Rabbi Eric H. Yoffie, President Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, President Emeritus
        MALLOY-Edwin. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Sun Hill Foundation mourn the passing of our Chairman, Edwin A. Malloy. He was a champion of those causes where he could make a difference, especially where his time and expertise were needed. We will miss his leadership, compassion and sage advise and will honor and preserve his memory in the years to come. Board of Trustees Sun Hill Foundation
        MALLOY-Edwin. The staff of Fred F. French Investing LLC mourn the passing of our Chairman, Edwin A. Malloy. His leadership, wisdom, integrity and guidance will be greatly missed. We will honor his memory and consider it a privilege to have been his friend. We extend our sincerest condolences to the Malloy family. The Staff of Fred F. French Investing LLC
        MALLOY-Edwin A. We on the Skidmore College campus, together with the college's alumni community, extend deepest sympathies to Susan Malloy and the members of her family. We are grateful for Edwin's generous spirit and for his commitment to the arts on our campus. His legacy will enrich the lives of faculty and students for generations to come. David H. Porter, President
        MALLOY-Edwin. The Board and staff of the Educational Alliance deeply mourns the untimely passing of Edwin Malloy, devoted father of our Board Vice-President, Timon. Their values of philanthropy, empathy and sensitivity to those less fortunate will live on through their children, Timon and Jennifer. We express our sincere condolences to Susan, Timon, Jennifer and granddaughter, Meredith.
        MALLOY-Edwin A. The trustees, faculty, staff, students, and alumni of Vermont Law School are deeply saddened by the loss of our trustee Edwin A. Malloy, whose experience, judgement, personal commitment, integrity, and leadership will sorely be missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Susan, and their children Jennifer and Timon.
      