
        SHAPIRO-George M. Died in his sleep on September 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Rita, devoted father of Karen Spector and the late Sanford Shapiro. His devotion to his family and his community was extraordinary. He had an outstanding career in law and public service beginning as Counsel to Governor Thomas E. Dewey. He then joined the law firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz and Mendelsohn (now Proskauer Rose LLP), eventually becoming head of its corporate department and long-time Managing Partner. He served as Chairman of the Board of the Park Avenue Synagogue, which named its new building in honor of him and his wife. Funeral services Thursday, September 10 at 10AM, Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th Street at Madison Avenue. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Park Avenue Synagogue.
        SHAPIRO-George M. Passed away peacefully at home on Tuesday, September 8. He was a devoted husband to Rita and a loving father to Karen and Richard Spector. The partners, senior counsel, associates and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn our loss. George will be remembered as a great lawyer, an inspiring mentor and a loyal friend. He was an active member of our firm for nearly four decades, for many years serving as a managing partner and a member of the Executive Committee. George was a major force in the growth of our firm's corporate and international practice. He leaves us a legacy of commitment, brilliance, friendship and uncompromising integrity. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. He will be missed by all who knew him-family, friends, colleagues and clients alike. Stanley Komaroff Chair Proskauer Rose LLP
        SHAPIRO-George M. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of our Honorary Chairman George M. Shapiro. For the eight years that he served our congregation as Chairman with great distinction, he was the inspiration for our new school building, and an ardent supporter of our Liturgical Music Program. We extend to his wife Rita and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President
        SHAPIRO-George M. We mourn the loss on September 8 of our past President, trusted advisor and dear friend. George's wisdom and guidance, so important to our mission, will be missed beyond measure. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Rita and daughter Karen. Benjamin de Rothschild Nadine de Rothschild The Edmond de Rothschild Foundation
        SHAPIRO-George M. The Board of Directors, Officers and staff of Israel Discount Bank of New York extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to the family of our esteemed former Director, friend and Counsel, and mark with deep appreciation his many years of devoted service to our Bank. Arie Sheer, President Israel Discount Bank of New York
        SHAPIRO-George M. We mourn the loss of our dear cousin George. We will always remember his love and warmth. Ben and Judy Milstein
      