
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. ''Gone is the joy of our hearts, our dancing has turned into mourning'' (Lamentations 5:15). Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the tragic and untimely passing of Stephen Syms Merns, son of cherished members of our extended family, Sy Syms and Ruth Merns. We pray that Stephen's family will find some measure of comfort knowing that the major scholarship endowment, established by Sy Syms, Chai Founder of Boys Town, will indeed provide the gift of life to disadvantaged Israeli youth by offering them hope and opportunity. ''Never again shall your sun set ....and ended shall be the days of your mourning'' (Isaiah 60:20). Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Vice Chairman Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Executive Vice President
        MERNS-Stephen. The National Board of Hadassah, The Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the untimely death of Stephen Syms Merns, who shared his family's vision for enhancing and enriching the quality of life for the world Jewish community. We cherish the long standing relationship the Syms and Merns families have had with Hadassah. Our deepest heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Marlene E. Post, Nat'l President Dr. Laura S. Schor, Nat'l Executive Director
        MERNS-Stephen. We extend heartfelt condolences to Sy Syms and Ruth Merns, our devoted friends and Founders, on the tragic and untimely passing of their beloved son. May they and the entire family be comforted amingst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical center in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzer, President Stuart Tauber, Executive Director
        MERNS-Stephen. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff extend our heartfelt sympathy to Board member Lynn Syms on the passing of her stepson. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire family. Zubin Mehta and Itzahk Perlman Co-Chairman Herman S. Sandler, President Albert Schussler, Pres. Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Director
        MERNS-Stephen. The faculty, administration, and board of Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law join with other members of the Yeshiva University community in extending heartfelt condolences to Sy Syms, a distinguished philanthropist and dear friend, on the tragic loss of his beloved son. Earle I. Mack, Chairman CSL Board of Directors Paul R. Verkuil CSL Dean
        MERNS-Stephen. In memory of Stephen Syms Merns. To our good friend and supporter, Sy, we feel your loss and Marcy and Lynn's loss. May HaShem watch over Stephen in the heavens. Michael R. Stoler, International President Friends of Rambam Medical Center President of The American Friends of Rambam Medical Center
        MERNS-Stephen. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved son of its esteemed and devoted members, Mr. and Mrs. Sy Syms, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres., David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President,
        MERNS-Stephen. The employees of Shaffer City Oyster Bar & Grill are deeply saddened to hear of the untimely death of our senior partner. Your smiles, your little notes on napkins and your overall generosity will be missed. God bless your soul and all those who mourn your passing. We love you. Shaffer City Oyster Bar & Grill A. Jay Shaffer
        MERNS-Stephen. Our dear cousin, you always had a smile and a kind word for all. Your devotion and love for your family was evident to all who knew you. We will miss you terribly and offer our deepest condolences to Karen Merns and Sy Syms and their extended family. Edward, Jill, Mark and Lowell Freiberg and Cathy Taub
        MERNS-Stephen. The Yeshiva University Museum extends its deepest condolences to the Syms family on the tragic loss of their beloved son Stephen. May the Almighty comfort them together with the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Erica Jesselson, Chair Sylvia A. Herskowitz, Director
        MERNS-Stephen. The Directors, Officers and staff of Israel Discount Bank of New York extend our heartfelt condolences and sympathy to our esteemed Director, Sy Syms, his wife and family on the untimely passing of his beloved son, Stephen. Arie Sheer, President Israel Discount Bank of New York
        MERNS-Stephen. Zoe and her family are shocked and deeply saddened by the loss of Jillian, Daniel and Olivia's father and Karen's husband. Our sympathy goes out to the entire family. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion. The Billinkoff Family
        MERNS-Stephen. Our hearts go out to our trustee Sy Syms and his family and to Stephen's family on their tragic loss. Inner-City Scholarship Fund Board of Trustees, Executive Council and Staff
      