
        KEMPNER-Carl Loeb. Of White Plains, New York on Sept. 15th, 1998. Husband of Doris Coleman Kempner. Son of Margaret Loeb Kempner & the late Alan Horace Kempner. Father of Kathryn Kempner Poteat, Margaret Adeline Kempner, Michael Coleman Kempner, & Carl Loeb Kempner, Jr. Father-in-law of Dr. George Howard Poteat. Brother of Alan Horace Kempner, Jr. and Thomas Lenox Kempner. Grandfather of Michael Kempner Poteat, Nicole Kathryn Poteat & Jason Kempner. Funeral service on Friday 12 noon at Congregation Emanu-El of Westchester, Westchester Ave., Rye, N.Y. Interment is in Kensico Cemetery, Valhalla, New York. In lieu of flowers contributions to Purchase College Foundation Scholarship Fund, Purchase, New York 10577 or Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, Box E, 1275 York Ave., New York 10021. The family will receive friends at their home on Thursday evening after 8 P.M. and Friday, 3-5 P.M.
        KEMPNER-Carl L. The Purchase College community, trustees of the Purchase College Foundation & members of the College Council mourn the loss of our esteemed friend, trustee and benefactor, Carl Kempner. Mr. Kempner was a charter member & president of the President's Club at Purchase College, which he founded over 15 years ago to support our students and faculty through scholarships and research awards. Under his stewardship, the club grew to over 100 members from Westchester and Fairfield Counties. Mr. Kempner recognized the importance of retaining and rewarding outstanding Purchase faculty and created the Kempner Distinguished Professorships. Our faculty are honored to have had such a distinguished advocate and donor, who spoke ardently about the quality of their teaching. Carl Kempner will be remembered for his warmth, quiet leadership, generosity and valuable expertise as investment counsel to the Foundation. Our warmest condolences are extended to Carl Kempner's family: his devoted wife, Doris; his mother, Margaret Loeb Kempner; his brothers, Alan and Thomas; and his children, Kathy, Peggy, Michael and Carl. Bill Lacy, President, Purchase College, SUNY Emily Grant, Chair, Purchase College Foundation
      