
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. With broken heart and loving affection, my sad goodbye. Lynn Syms
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. The Yeshiva University family is deeply saddened by the untimely passing of an esteemed businessman and member of the Jewish community, beloved husband of Karen; father of Jillian, Daniel, and Olivia; son of Sy Syms and Ruth Merns; and brother of Marcy Syms Merns, Laura, Adrienne, Robert, and Richard. Stephen's family is deeply involved with Yeshiva University. His mother and father are each YU Benefactors; his father, Sy, is vice chairman of the YU Board of Trustees, an honorary alumnus, and eponym of our Sy Syms School of Business. Marcy Syms Merns, like her father a member of the SSSB Board, established the Marcy Syms Scholarship there. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Josh S. Weston, Chairman SSSB Board of Directors Dr. Harold Nierenberg, Dean SSSB
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. Gone is the joy of our hearts, our dancing has turned into mourning (Lamentations 5:15). Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the tragic and untimely passing of Stephen Syms Merns, son of cherished members of our extended family, Sy Syms and Ruth Merns. We pray that Stephen's family will find some measure of comfort knowing that the major scholarship endowment, established by Sy Syms, Chai Founder of Boys Town, will indeed provide the gift of life to disadvantaged Israeli youth by offering them hope and opportunity. ''Never again shall your sun set....and ended shall be the days of your mourning'' (Isaiah 60:20). Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Vice Chairman Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Executive Vice President
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. The Leadership and Staff of State of Israel Bonds were deeply shocked and saddened to learn of the untimely and tragic passing of Stephen Syms Merns. His commitment to Israel and the Jewish community continued a tradition begun by his father, Sy Syms, former chairman of the Board of Israel Bonds; his mother, Ruth Merns, a member of the North American Women's Division Board; and his sister, Marcy Syms Merns, former chairperson of the Greater New York Campaign, cherished members of the Israel Bonds extended family. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Gideon Patt, President and CEO Burton P. Resnick, Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg, National Campaign Chairman Howard Hirsch, Campaign Chairman, Greater New York
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stephen Merns Syms, an ardent supporter of the Jewish community who emulated his family's concern for the welfare and survival of the Jewish people. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Karen; his children, Jillian, Daniel and Olivia; his father, Sy Syms; his mother, Ruth Merns; his sisters, Marcy, Laura and Adrienne; and his brothers, Robert and Richard. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. VP
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deepest sorrow the untimely passing of the beloved son of our dear friend and Benefactor Ruth Merns, who established the Ruth Merns Chair in Biochemisty at our medical school. We extend our hearfelt condolences to Ruth and the entire family on their tragic loss. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson AECOM Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura AECOM Dean
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. The Officers and Directors of the Children's Blood Foundation extend their heartfelt condolences to our esteemed board members, Sy and Lynn Syms, on the passing of his beloved son, Stephen. We wish to extend our sincerest sympathy to the family on their loss. John Calicchio, Chairman Margaret W. Hilgartner MD, Pres. Lawrence D. Bass, Vice Pres. Susan R. Byrne, Exec Dir.
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. The Trustees and Staff of City Parks Foundation extend sincerest sympathies to Trustee and friend, Lynn Syms, on the loss of her stepson, Stephen. Bruce C. Ratner, Chairperson Jean Trubh, President Deborah Landau, Exec Director
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. We mourn the untimely passing of the beloved son of Sy Syms, our faithful MC and generous supporter. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. RE'UTH Rosa Strygler, President Ursula Merkin, Chairman
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. August 29, Your love for family and friends, your smile, your warmth, your considerate ways, your lust for life was very unique. You were truly a Prince among humans. You will be missed forever. Love, Lee and Paul Wattenberg.
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. Temple Shaaray Tefila records his untimely death with profound sorrow. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to Karen, Jillian, Daniel, Olivia and all his loved ones. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, President
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen . Our hearts go out to Sy Syms and his family. Stephen was a lovely man whose untimely death will sadden everyone who had the privilege of knowing him. Bert, Bunny, Herbert and Lorraine Podell
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. It is with great sadness and grief that we mourn the untimely passing of our step-brother Stephen. He will be remembered with great love and affection forever. Leslie Tamarkin, Marc Becker, Mindy Golderg & Cary Tamarkin
        SYMS MERNS-Stephen. Daniel's friends are very saddened by the sudden loss of his wonderful father. We offer our hearts & prayers to Daniel and his family. His Friends from the Class of 2002
      