
        MEADOW-Cyril Z. Of New York City and Dummerston, Vermont, died on Friday, September 18, 1998 in Dummerston, Vermont. Mr. Meadow was 71 years old. He is survived by his wife Phyllis of New York City; his daughter Dena Reed of Brookline, MA.; and grandchildren Rebecca, Amanda and Zachary Reed of Brookline, MA; his sister Florence Bredhoff of New York City; his nieces Stacy Bredhoff of Washington, D.C. and Susan Cohen of Brookline, MA. A graveside service will be held at 3PM on Saturday, September 19, 1998 on his farm in Dummerston, VT. A memorial service will be held in New York City in the fall. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies in New York City or the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis in Brookline, MA. Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies
        MEADOW-Cyril Z. The Board and Faculty of the Brooklyn Seminars in Modern Psychoanalysis mourn the passing of Cyril Z. Meadow, a founder and the Director of the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies and a leader of the Modern Psychoanalytic movement. Cy Meadow's devotion to the students and faculty of the Center and to all who work on behalf of psychoanalytic education has served as a model for all of his friends and colleagues. We admired his dedication and devotion to excellence. We miss his leadership, his companionship, his love of life and his generosity. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, Dr. Phyllis Meadow; his daughter, Dr. Dena Reed and his grandchildren. Brooklyn Seminars in Modern Psychoanalysis
        MEADOW-Cyril Z. The Society of Modern Psychoanalysts notes with profound sadness the death of Cyril Z. Meadow, a member of the executive board and founder of the organization. Mr. Meadow, as the first treasurer of the Society of Modern Psychoanalysts, established the basis for the organization to become a strong advocate for modern psychoanalysis and modern psychoanalysts. His caring, creative and energetic leadership was a beacon for the modern analytic community. He will be deeply missed by all of us. The Society of Modern Psychoanalysts
        MEADOW-Cyril Z. The Students of CMPS are profoundly saddened by the loss of Cyril Z. Meadow, our director, teacher, and friend, whose hard work, dedication and love have inspired each of us. Mr. Meadow's strength, determination, wisdom, humor and generosity will live on in our school and in our hearts forever. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to Dr. Phyllis Meadow and to the entire Meadow family. The Student Association of the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies
        MEADOW-Cyril. The Board and Faculty of The New Jersey Center for Modern Psychoanalysis mourn the untimely passing of Cyril Meadow. He was a towering personality who was at the forefront in advocating the teaching of modern psychoanalysis. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his bereaved family.
        MEADOW-Cyril Z. We grieve the passing of Mr. Cyril Meadow, an alumnus and one of the founders of CMPS whose direction and support fostered the alumuni association's growth into a vibrant and effective community. The Alumni Association of CMPS
        MEADOW-Cyril Z. September 18, 1998. Friend, mentor. Your strength and sense of purpose will be sorely missed. The Directors, Faculty and Students of The Psychoanlytic Center of Northern New Jersey.
        MEADOW-Cyril. With sadness we note the passing of a leader in the field of modern psychoanalysis. The Directors, Faculty & Students Of The New Jersey Center for Modern Psychoanalysis
        MEADOW-Cyril Z. The editors, staff and consultants of the journal ''Modern Psychoanlysis'' mourn the loss of Cyril Meadow whose warmth and rigorous dedication inspired love, loyalty, and respect.
        MEADOW-Cyril Z. Mr. Meadow, Cy, dear friend and mentor, we will always remember you with deepest affection. Paul and Sara Sheftel and Family
      