
        SPANOPOULOU-Eugenia, Ph.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine deeply mourn the tragic, untimely passing of our esteemed colleagues Eugenia Spanopoulou, Ph.D., and her beloved husband Andrew Hodtsev, Ph.D., along with their 18 month old son, Platon, in the crash of Swissair Flight 111 in Nova Scotia. An Assistant Professor in Mount Sinai's Derald H. Ruttenberg Cancer Center, Dr. Spanopoulou was a gifted researcher whose outstanding achievements led to her appointment last year as a Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigator, joining one of the Nation's most elite circles of scientists conducting cutting-edge work in cell biology, genetics, immunology, neuroscience and structural biology. Dr. Spanopoulou received her undergraduate degree in pharmacy from the University of Athens in 1983, her Master's degree in general biochemistry in 1984 from Chelsea College of the University of London, and her doctorate in molecular biology from Kings College of the University of London in 1990. She then worked as a postdoctoral fellow at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Rockefeller University before joining Mount Sinai in 1995. Her research, which has appeared in numerous scientific publications, focused on the molecular mechanisms of the immune system and the potential role of those mechanisms in the onset of leukemia and lymphoma. Her husband was an immunologist who served as an instructor in the Ruttenberg Center. They were aboard the ill-fated flight en-route to her native Greece for their son's christening. They will be fondly remembered by all who knew them and their loss will be keenly felt. We extend our sincerest condolences to their families. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President
        SPANOPOULOU-Eugenia. The students, faculty, and staff of the Mount Sinai Graduate School of Biological Sciences mourn the tragic deaths of a stellar member of the faculty, Eugenia Spanopoulou, her husband Andrew Hodtsev, and their son Platon in the crash of Swissair 111. Eugenia was a brilliant young scientist whose sparkling creativity and personality enlivened and enriched our entire program. Her scientific accomplishments were already remarkable. She was also a marvelous mentor for her students. She energetically engaged in the work of developing their talents, careers and developing the new programs in which many of them were training. She thus influenced so many of us and fostered enhancements that will be part of the powerful legacy of a grievously shortened life. We extend our profound condolences to Eugenia and Andrew's families. Terry Ann Krulwich, Dean Mount Sinai Graduate School of Biological Sciences Sharon and Frederick A. Klingenstein-Nathan G. Kase, MD Professor
        SPANOPOULOU-Eugenia, Ph.D. We the faculty and students of the Molecular Basis of Disease Program of the Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Mount Sinai School of Medicine are deeply saddened by the demise of Eugenia Spanopoulou, Ph.D., her husband Dr. Andrew Hodtsev and their young son Platon. Eugenia, an exceptional young scientist was an Assistant Professor in the Ruttenberg Cancer Center and an Investigator of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. Her commitment to excellence in science and graduate training will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest condolences to her family, her husband's family and the members of her laboratory. Ravi Iyengar, Ph.D. Department of Pharmacology Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        SPANOPOULOU-Eugenia, Ph.D. The faculty & staff of the Derald H. Ruttenberg Cancer Center at The Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Ruttenberg family are deeply saddened by the sudden, tragic loss of our admired and respected colleagues Eugenia Spanopoulou, Ph.D., and her husband Andrew Hodtsev, Ph.D., and their son Platon, in the crash of Swissair Flight 111. A brilliant young scientist, whose promise was exemplified by her selection as a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator, Dr. Spanopoulou worked with her husband at the forefront of molecular immunology and cancer research. Their loss will be keenly felt, both at our Center and throughout the research community. We offer our deepest sympathy to their families. Stuart A. Aaronson, MD Director
      