
        MAASS-Richard, 79. Of Purchase, New York, died September 10, of cancer. Mr. Maass was born May 20, 1919 in Baltimore, Maryland to Arthur Leopold Maass and Selma Rosenheim Maass. He is survived by his devoted wife of 55 years, Dolly Lederer Maass, a brother Arthur Aaron Maass of Boston, sons Douglas O. of Sleepy Hollow, NY and R. Andrew of Jackson, Mississippi, four grandchildren, Aaron, Ethan and Kern Maass and Annie Maass Halpin, one great grandson Michael Andrew Halpin. A memorial service will be held at Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Plains, NY, Monday, September 14, 1 P.M. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to Purchase College (SUNY) Foundation Scholarship Fund.
        MAASS-Richard. The officers, members and staff of the American Jewish Committee are deeply saddened by the death of Richard Maass, a treasured and trusted friend and leader of AJC for more than 40 years. Richie served as AJC National President from 1977 to 1980. Among his numerous AJC positions, he served as Chairman of both our Board of Governors and National Executive Counsel. Most recently, he held the post of Honorary Natiional President. His leadership embodied the very spirit and soul of AJC over these often tumultuous decades. His concern mirrored our own: civil rights, equal opportunity, international human rights standards and monitoring, Soviet Jewry, and support for Israel and for Jews the world over. Richie was the first Chairman of the National Conference on Soviet Jewry, and, indeed, participated in numerous overseas missions that took him to many Jewish communities around the world. He co-founded and cochaired the Academy of the Air for Jewish Studies, a project to broadcast Jewish educational and cultural materials from the West to Jews in the former Soviet Union. He was also a member of the Board and Treasurer of the International League for Human Rights. A former Mayor of White Plains, New York, Richie found the time to serve numerous youth organizations and educational endeavors. For all those who knew Richie and were touched by his gentleness, wisdom and compassion, we have lost a special person whose likes we will not soon see again. We send our deepest condolences to his beloved wife of 55 years, Dolly, his children, Douglas and Andrew and grandchildren. Bruce M. Ramer, President David A. Harris, Exec Director
        MAASS-Richard. The International League for Human Rights mourns the death of Richard Maass, our faithful friend and colleague, treasurer and long-time League board member. Richie was a true believer in human rights for everyone. We will miss his leadership and compassion. Our condolences to Dolly and family. Leo Nevas, Chairman Emeritus Scott Horton, President
        MAASS-Richard. White Plains and all of Westchester are better places due to the tireless efforts of this totally selfless and dedicated man. I had the privilege of being his friend for thirty-five years and wish Dolly and the entire family heartfelt condolences. Martin S. Berger, Robert Martin Company
        MAASS-Richard. We say goodbye. A special, unique friend whose death is a dreadful loss to all who knew him. Janet and Michael Mayer
        MAASS-Richie. Our dear friend, leader and supporter is gone, but he leaves behind an extraordinary legacy to our Chapter, the AJC, the Westchester Community. His gentle ways, uncompromising integrity, passion for justice and leadership contributions are an inspiration to all of us. We extend our deepest sympathy and love to Dolly and his entire family. Marjorie R. Lissy, President Ann V. Schaffer, Area Director American Jewish Committee, Westchester Chapter
      