
        MAASS-Richard, 79. Of Purchase, New York, died September 10, of cancer. Mr. Maass was born May 20, 1919 in Baltimore, Maryland to Arthur Leopold Maass and Selma Rosenheim Maass. He is survived by his devoted wife of 55 years, Dolly Lederer Maass, a brother Arthur Aaron Maass of Boston, sons Douglas O. of Sleepy Hollow, NY and R. Andrew of Jackson, Mississippi, four grandchildren, Aaron, Ethan and Kern Maass and Annie Maass Halpin, one great grandson Michael Andrew Halpin. A memorial service will be held at Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Plains, NY, Monday, September 14, 1 P.M. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to Purchase College (SUNY) Foundation Scholarship Fund.
        MAASS-Richard. The administration, faculty, staff and students at Purchase College, trustees of the Purchase College Foundation and members of the Purchase College Council deeply mourn the loss of our beloved friend, Richard Maass. Mr. Maass selflessly committed himself to Purchase College for two decades as friend and benefactor, as trustee of the Purchase College Foundation and as Chair of the Purchase College Council. Founding supporter of the college's Jewish Studies Program, chief benefactor of the School of Art and Design, leadership donor to the Purchase College Scholarship Fund and contributor to every academic discipline, the students and academic programs at Purchase College are his legacy. Richard Maass was an unparallelled volunteer whose service to Purchase College was recognized in 1990 by the trustees of the State University of New York with a Distinguqished Citizen award. His passion for public higher education as exemplified by Purchase College was extraordinary. He was the college's unrelenting champion, advocating Purchase to every influential constituency. Richard Maass has made an indelible mark in the heart of our college community, and he is forever a part of our future. We extend our deepest sympathy to the Maass family; his devoted wife Dolly and sons Douglas and Andrew. Bill Lacy, President, Purchase College. Emily Grant, Chair, Purchase College Foundation Members, Purchase College Council.
        MAASS-Richard. The Friends Board and the staff of the Neuberger Museum of Art, Purchase College mourn the recent passing of Richard Maass, Chairman of the Purchase College Council, Neuberger Museum member, historian, scholar, art patron, book lover, humanitarian and friend. To his wife Dolly, sons Andy and Doug, and his grandchildren and extended family our condolences, sympathy and love. Lucinda H. Gedeon, Director Allan G. Sperling, Chairman Friends of The Neuberger Museum of Art
        MAASS-Richard. To our dear friend Richie, whose gentle but forceful humanity enriched the lives of all of us who had the privilege of being his friend. We shall miss you forever, but are comforted because you have left us your dear, Dolly. Caroline, Elizabeth, John and Frank Goldsmith
        MAASS-Richard. The National Conference on Soviet Jewry expresses deep sorrow on the loss of their first Chairman, Richie Maass. His guidance and support will be missed by all. Our condolences to his wife, Dolly and entire family. Denis C. Braham, Chairman Howard E. Sachs, President
      