
        CAMP-Alida Donnell Milliken. 89. At home in East Bluehill, Maine on September 19. Wife of the late Frederic E. Camp. Daughter of the late Seth M. Milliken and Alida K. Leese. Mother of Nicholas R. Camp (Carmel, ME), Susan C. Schewe (Lecanto, FL), Donnell McK Camp (South Londonderry, VT), Catharine C. Lund (Groton, MA), and William M. Boardman (Woodstock, VT). Grandmother to 14, great grandmother to 9 with a 10th expected in November. Sister of Minot K. Milliken (NYC) and John F. Milliken (Pittsboro, NC). She was a founding member of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society and the Maine chapter of the MS Society; a longtime Trustee of Colby College; and a founding Trustee of the College of the Atlantic. She graduated from Smith College in 1930, after attending the Brearley School and Milton Academy. Honorary degrees: Doctor of Humane Letters from Colby and Bachelor of Arts in Human Ecology from College of the Atlantic. She was also a founding member of the Blue Hill Troup. She raced sailboats competitively from her childhood until 1958 when she took to cruising the coast in her Concordia yall named Thistledown. Memorial service at the Blue Hill Congregational Church, 2 PM, Friday, September 25. Memorial contributions to National Multiple Sclerosis Society, 733 Third Ave, NYC 10017-3288.
        CAMP-Alida Donnell Milliken. Philanthropist; helped start the National MS Society. The volunteers and staff of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society wish to express deep sorrow on the passing of Alida Donnell Milliken Camp, 89, of Blueberry Hill, a sailor and a philanthropist, who died Saturday at her home. In 1946, shortly after her husband, Frederic E. Camp was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis, Mrs. Camp began meeting with Sylvia Lawry and others whose loved ones had the disease. Together, they were instrumental in the establishment of the National MS Society. She was a continuous member of the Society's board of trustees, from 1946 until her death, served as past Regional Vice Chairman and was one of the founders of the MS Society's Maine chapter and its chair. Both the National Society and the state chapter presented her with awards honoring her life-time service. Surviving are five children, Nicholas R. Camp of Carmel, Susan C. Schewe of Lecanto, Florida, Donnell McK. Camp, of South Dondonderry, Vermont, Catharine C. Lund of Groton, Mass. and William M. Boardman of Woodstock, Vermont, two brothers, Minot Milliken of New York City and John F. Milliken of Pittsboro, North Carolina; fourteen grandchildren and nine great grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Friday, September 25, 1998 at 2:00 pm at the Blue Hill Congregational Church, Main Street, Blue Hill, Maine 04614. Jordan Funeral Home, Ellsworth, Maine 04605. Contributions may be made in her memory to the National Multiple Schlerosis Society, 733 Third Avenue, 6th Floor, NY, NY 10017.
      