
        HOLZER-Erich P. The Board of Directors and staff of The Jewish Community Center on the Palisades deeply mourn the loss of Erich Holzer, a long-time member of The Board of Directors, most recently serving as the Chair of The Board of Trustees. Erich was a beloved leader of the JCC, generously supporting the Center and its educational programs, particularly the nursery school, music school and Holocaust Education Institute. All at the JCC were indeed blessed to know Erich, a man whose character, committment, generosity and leadership defined our community and enriched the quality of all our lives. We offer our deepest sympathy to his wife Eva, son and fellow JCC board member Robert, daughter Vivian, and the entire Holzer family. May the Lord comfort them among all the mourners of Zion. Edward A. Grossmann, President Avi A. Lewinson, Exec Director
        HOLZER-Erich. Temple EmanuEl of Englewood, N.J., its Officers, Board of Directors and Members of the congregation, deeply mourn the loss of Erich Holzer, trustee of the Temple and valued and estemeed member for many years. His wise counsel and never failing support of all of our synagogue's endeavors were of immense value to our temple. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wonderful wife Eva, his children Vivian and Robert and the entire Holzer family. May his memory be for a blessing. Shepard Goldfein, President Geoffrey J. Haber, Rabbi
        HOLZER-Erich. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the passing of longtime JTS benefactor Erich Holzer. A gentle, unassuming man of integrity, he cared deeply about the welfare of the Jewish people, giving generously to numerous organizations that supported his twin loves of Judaism and culture. He is survived by his wife, Eva; their children, Vivian and Robert; and five grandchildren. May his memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Board Chairman
        HOLZER-Erich. The Board of Trustees, staff and artists of the John Harms Center for the Arts are profoundly saddened by the passing of our most loyal friend, Erich; a genuine gentleman and exquisite spirit. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his surviving family: wonderful wife Eva, daughter Vivian, son Robert (JHC Board Vice President) and their families. Erich will forever remain in our deepest grateful memory. The John Harms Center for the Arts
        HOLZER-Erich. The Solomon Schechter Day School of Bergen County mourns the death of a great friend and benefactor. His gifts to our school, including the Holzer Auditorium will forever stand as his loving tribute to our children. Our condolences to his beloved Eva, their children and grandchildren. His memory will long remain a blessing to all who knew him. Rabbi Stuart Saposh, Headmaster Deborah Tuchman, President
        HOLZER-Erich P. We share the grief with Eva and the Holzer family on the loss of Erich. A very special person who will be missed. The Spiegel Family
      