
        HOPKINS-John J. Of Mt. Vernon, New York, on September 17, 1998. Husband of Joan Whittington Hopkins. Father of Richard, James, Edward, William, Robert, Eugene and Margaret Burns. Brother of Rose Kelly and Theresa Schwarz. Grandfather of 13. Calling hours at The Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, Bronxville between the hours of 2-4 and 7-9 PM, Saturday and Sunday. Mass of Christian burial, St's. Peter & Paul Church, Fleetwood on Monday, September 21 at 10 AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to St. Joseph's Seminary, Yonkers, NY 10704 or Nativity Mission Center, 204 Forsyth Street, New York, New York 10002.
        HOPKINS-John J. On behalf of the Boards of Directors, Administration & staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc, and Calvary Fund, Inc, we mourn the passing of our longtime board member and dear friend. John Hopkins served on the hospital Board of Directors since 1982. He gave generously of his time, as First Vice-Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Planning Committee, member of the Executive, Finance and Nominating Committees of the hospital board and Treasurer of the Calvary Fund Board. His wisdom, commitment and leadership contributed enormously to the growth and success of the hospital program of care and to the efforts of the Calvary Fund. We will miss John, both as a dedicated board member and as a true friend. We extend our condolences to his wife Joan; his children; his grandchildren and other members of his family. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., MD Chairman of the Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Dennis E. Berberich, Chairman of the Calvary Fund Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President-Executive Director Michael J. Brescia, MD, Medical Director James E. Cimino, MD Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute, Richard J. Kutilek, Chief Operating Officer Roy Clary, Executive Vice-President, Calvary Fund
        HOPKINS-John J. The Board of Trustees and family of Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center mourn with sadness the loss of our Chairman of the Board, friend and colleague, John J. Hopkins. His wisdom, spirituality, commitment and leadership were an inspiration to all who had the privilege of knowing him. His compassion in word and deed will continue within us. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Joan and their seven children and fourteen grandchildren. James D. Cameron, President and CEO Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center
        HOPKINS-John. The Regis High School Board of Trustees and the School's Administration profoundly regret the sudden death of John J. Hopkins, a graduate of the Class of 1951. John served Regis for over 25 years in many capacities. He was a member of the original Board of Trustees (1975-1983) and received Regis's most prestigious commendation The ''Deo et Patriae Award'' for distinguished service in 1984. Prayerful condolences to Joan, his wife, and their children.
      