
        SHAPIRO-George M. Died in his sleep on September 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Rita, devoted father of Karen Spector and the late Sanford Shapiro. His devotion to his family and his community was extraordinary. He had an outstanding career in law and public service beginning as Counsel to Governor Thomas E. Dewey. He then joined the law firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz and Mendelsohn (now Proskauer Rose LLP), eventually becoming head of its corporate department and long-time Managing Partner. He served as Chairman of the Board of the Park Avenue Synagogue, which named its new building in honor of him and his wife. Funeral services Thursday, September 10 at 10AM, Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th Street at Madison Avenue. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Park Avenue Synagogue.
        SHAPIRO-George M. Passed away peacefully at home on Monday, September 7. He was a devoted husband to Rita and a loving father to Karen and Richard Spector. The partners, senior counsel, associates and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn our loss. George will be remembered as a great lawyer, an inspiring mentor and a loyal friend. He was an active member of our firm for nearly four decades, for many years serving as a managing partner and a member of the Executive Committee. George was a major force in the growth of our firm's corporate and international practice. He leaves us a legacy of commitment, brilliance, friendship and uncompromising integrity. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. He will be missed by all who who knew him-family, friends, colleagues and clients alike. Stanley Komaroff Chair Proskauer Rose LLP
        SHAPIRO-George M. The Board of Directors and officers of PEC Israel Economic Corporation note with deep sorrow the passing of George M. Shapiro, a former director and counsel of PEC. During the ten years he served PEC, our company benefited from his wisdom, guidance and sound advice. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. PEC Israel Economic Corporation
        SHAPIRO-George M. The Board of Directors and management of Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc., note with deep sorrow the passing of our dear friend, colleague, advisor and former Director. To his wife Rita, his daughter Karen and all who loved him, we extend our heartfelt sympathy.
      