
        HARRINGTON-Sybil. It is with profound sadness we mourn the death of Sybil Harrington, devoted member of our official family since 1967 and a Director of our Managing Board since 1980. One of the most generous Patrons in Metropolitan Opera history, in addition to her leadership gift to create the Metropolitan Opera's first endowment fund, Sybil underwrote 16 new Met productions, two gala concerts and 13 ''Metropolitan Opera Presents'' telecasts, including this season's telecasts of ''Samson et Dalila'' and ''La Cenerentola'' and the James Levine 25th Anniversary Gala. Her underwriting support for the current Met productions of ''Don Carlo,'' ''Manon Lescaut,'' ''La Boheme,'' ''Francesca da Rimini,'' ''Die Fledermaus,'' ''Turandot,'' ''Das Rheingold,'' ''Aida,'' ''Don Giovanni,'' ''La Fanciulla del West,'' ''Die Meistersinger von Nuernberg'' and ''Otello'' represent her passionate commitment to traditional productions of the core opera repertory. She took special pleasure in supporting the Met telecasts so that everyone throughout the country could be part of the Met audience. Sybil Harrington's philanthropy has left a legacy that will endure for generations to come. Each season's telecasts and productions supported by that legacy will help us recall with the fondest of memories her devoted love for the Met. The Opera House Auditorium bears Sybil Harrington's name in honor of the singular example she set for philanthropic commitment to the Metropolitan Opera. Metropolitan Opera Association Mrs. Gilbert W. Humphrey, Honorary Chairman James W. Kinnear, Chairman Bruce Crawford, President
        HARRINGTON-Sybil. The Metropolitan Opera mourns with profound sadness the death of Sybil Harrington, beloved friend of our company. The Metropolitan Opera was the great joy in Sybil's life after the death of her husband, Don. She treasured her time at the Met, and we were very much her family. All members of the company, from the administrative staff to the orchestra and chorus as well as all those who work on stage and behind the scenes, feel a deep sense of loss. Her extraordinary generosity helped give the Met company longterm financial security through a 1980 leadership gift to create the first endowment for the Metropolitan Opera. She also underwrote 16 new productions, two gala concerts, and 13 ''Metropolitan Opera Presents'' telecasts, including this season's telecast of ''Samson et Dalila'' and ''La Cenerentola.'' We recall with deep affection Sybil's elegant presence at the Met rehearsals and performances, her keen eye, sharp wit, and most of all, her abiding bond to our company. She loved visiting her friends backstage and, when failing health prevented her from visiting New York, she continued to stay in touch with them and eagerly looked forward to Met telecasts and broadcasts. She will be deeply missed by all those members of the Metropolitan Opera family who were privileged to know her as a very dear friend. Joseph Volpe, General Manager James Levine, Artistic Director
        HARRINGTON-Sybil. Sybil's pungent wit and her fierce affection for everyone at The Met, from primo tenore to maintenance crew, were some of her greatest gifts to those of us who worked there and knew her. Her humanity was even greater than her philanthropy. Box 13, Seat 1 and a piece of our hearts will always be hers. Barbara Heyman Lorber
      