
        KLEIN-Stanley. Died tragically on Swissair Flight 111. Beloved husband to Carol, cherished father to Abraham and Cheryl, Alan and Odelia. Loving grandfather to Matthew, Daniel, Yonatan, Aliza Rachel and Nicole Rose. Devoted son to Harry and the late Rose, and brother to Steven and Anne. Caring, brilliant, vibrant and vital, his inspiration and legacy remain forever through the friends and loved ones he leaves behind.
        KLEIN-Stanley. The partners and staff of Brauner Baron Rosenzweig & Klein, LLP mourn the death of our good friend and senior partner Stanley Klein who perished on Swissair Flight 111. For more than 30 years, he provided us with great wisdom, sound leadership and warm and loyal friendship. We will miss him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Carol, his sons Abraham and Alan, his father Harry, his brother Stephen and to all of his family and friends, and share their sense of shock, grief and loss.
        KLEIN-Stanley. In memory of our friend, fellow director and longtime president tragically lost on Swissair 111. Words are inadequate to express our grief. Your thoughtfulness, generosity of spirit, your unfailing concern for the less fortunate and your love of life are lost to us forever and we are poorer for the loss. Officers and Directors of the Herman Goldman Foundation
        KLEIN-Stanley. The Officers and Directors of the Helen Machett DeMario Foundation deeply mourn the loss of Stanley Klein, director, friend and colleague. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Carol, his sons Abraham and Alan and all of his family. His commitment, decency and humor will be deeply missed. Norman H. Sparber, President
        KLEIN-Stanley. The Partners of Goldstein Golub Kessler LLP are saddened by the tragic loss of Stanley Klein. Our hearts go out to his Dad, Harry his wife, Carol and their children, Alan and Isabel and Abraham and Cheryl, their five grandchildren, as well as his partners and friends. A true professional, a wonderful person.
      