
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos. Of Manhattan. On September 2, 1998, aboard Swissair 111. Best friend and beloved husband for 18 years of Laurie. Dearest and devoted father of Melanie (17), Elias (14) and Marisa (8). Loving son of Kerasia and Symeon Kefalidis of Alexandroupolis, Greece. Cherished brother of Chrysanthos Kefalidis of Athens and Efthimia Melidis of Alexandroupolis. Caring uncle of four nephews. Nikos spent the first nine years of his life with his family in Alexandroupolis, Greece, his birthplace. He then attended Anavryta College, a boarding school near Athens, as a scholarship student. He later studied at the University of Athens, graduating with a degree in economics. In 1970, he immigrated to the United States and became a U.S. citizen several years later. As founder and President of KLM Construction, Inc., he developed residential and commercial real estate projects throughout New York City. In 1989, he was instrumental in founding Beta Steel Corp., a privately held steel mill in Portage, Indiana, of which he was Chairman of the Board of Directors. In addition to his business ventures, Nikos was active in numerous community, political and religious organizations. He was appointed a member of the Democratic National Committee in 1994. He served on the Archdiocesan Council of the Greek Orthodox Church in the Americas and as Vice President of the Board of Trustees of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocesan Cathedral of the Holy Trinity in New York City. A Memorial Service will be held at The Cathedral, 319 East 74th Street (between 1st and 2nd Avenues) on Tuesday, September 8, 1998 at 6 PM, with His Eminence, Archbishop Iakovos presiding. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in his memory either to The Greek Children's Fund at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, NY, NY 10021, or to The Dalton School Scholarship Fund, 108 East 89th Street, New York, New York 10128.
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos/d. You had bestowed upon me your kindness and trust. To you, I always look as a mentor, role model and source of inspiration. In my heart, I will carry the flame of your soul for the rest of my life. Hesky Brahimy.
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos. Laurie, Melanie, Elias, and Marisa, you were Nikos' joy of life. Nikos lived for you and lives in you. We are completely heartbroken for you and sharing your grief. We love you. Hesky and Sholeh Brahimy
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The directors and employees of Beta Steel Corp. of Portage, Indiana express their own deep sorrow while extending profound sympathy to the entire Kefalidis family on the untimely death of our founder, Chairman of the Board of Directors and indomitable helmsman. Through times both good and bad, his vision, wisdom and compassion provided us with the courage to do the right thing, as well as the strength to endure and overcome misfortune. He stood by all of us, supporting and encouraging us, more than just as an employer, but as a genuine friend. His door would always open, in response to our knock for every single need, whether personal or professional. We mourn the loss of an exceptional leader, a dedicated executive, a loyal friend and-in every sense of the definition-a ''good man.''
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The Dean, Board of Trustees and community of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocesan and Cathedral of the Holy Trinity mourn the tragic loss of our beloved friend, colleague, Trustee & Vice President, Nikos Kefalidis. His generosity of spirit, warm smile & commitment to his church and the community will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Laurie, children, Melanie, Elias and Marisa, his parents, brother, sister and nephews. A memorial service will be held Tuesday, at Holy Trinity Cathedral, 319 East 74th Street, at 6 PM. Presiding will be his Eminence Archbishop Iakovos. ''May his memory be eternal.'' Rev. Dr. Robert Stephanopoulos, Dean
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The partners, associates and staff of Goldberg Weprin & Ustin LLP, express their profound sadness at the tragic and untimely passing of our friend Nikos Kefalidis. We are privileged to have worked with this honorable, talented and compassionate man, often throughout the nights, on dynamic and creative projects. We will remember Nikos for embracing life, for his unending energy and for his fierce dedication to his family and to his community. We will miss him. We extend our heartfelt and deepest sympathy to his wife Laurie and their children Melanie, Elias and Marisa.
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The tragic passing of our dear friend, Nikos Kefalidis, has left us numb and deeply saddened. He touched us all with his dedication to humanitarian and spiritual values and especially his devotion to his beloved family. Nikos will be truly missed. Our hearts and prayers go out to his wife, Laurie, and to his children, Melanie, Elias and Marisa. John and Eva Fondrier Athens, Greece
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos. We lost our dearest friend whom we trusted and loved as a brother. His loyalty, love and generosity were without measure. Our lives have forever been enriched by his kindness and humanity. His spirit will remain in our hearts. Laurie, Melanie, Elias and Marisa, we love you. Joanna and Bob
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Nikos. He was our client but foremost, our friend and mentor. We will always remember his warmth, creative energy, and love for and pride in his family. We will miss you. Carole Slater and Jerry Hirschen
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The employees of KLM Construction, Inc., mourn the untimely death aboard Swissair 111 of our founder, President, example and true friend. To the Kefalidis family, our wish for peace and love.
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos. You invited us into your life to share your love, joy, good counsel and extraordinary family. Good-bye, dear friend; you will be in our hearts, thoughts and prayers forever. Grant and Mimi Ruthizer
        KEFALIDIS-Nikos. The example of your magnanimous heart and generous spirit will forever stay as a source of strength and inspiration in our lives. Apostolos and Areti Fliakos
      