
        SAFENOWITZ-Milton, 70, a founding principal of Getty Petroleum Corp, and a member of Getty's Board of Directors died from complications of ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease) on October 27th, 1998. Milton had devoted 35 years of his efforts, good judgment and dedication to the Company serving as Executive Vice President of Getty until his retirement in 1990. He is survived by his wife Marilyn, his three children: Ellen and her husband Gary, his son Howard and his wife Lynn and his daughter Susan and her husband Alan. He is also survived by his grandchildren, Jordan, Bailey, Amanda, Jeffrey, Rachel, Ryan and Samantha, as well as his brother Aaron and wife Carole, and his sister-in-law Libby and husband Jackie. Services are on Wednesday, October 28, at 10 AM at Gutterman's Funeral Home, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, New York, 516921-5757. Interment at Beth Moses Cemetery, Pine Lawn, Long Island. In lieu of flowers, the family has requested that donations be made to the Greater New York Chapter of the ALS Association, 40 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005. The Board of Directors, the Officers and everyone at Getty, express their sorrow on Milton's passing and extend deepest condolences to his family. Getty Petroleum Marketing, Inc Getty Realty Corp Leo Liebowitz Chairman & CEO
        SAFENOWITZ-Milton. Members of the Board of Trustees and Administration of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation are deeply saddened by the loss of Trustee Milton Safenowitz, for many years a friend and benefactor. Our sincerest sympathies to his wife, Madeline and his family. May your memories of him offer comfort at this time. David Taub, Chairman of The Board David Glaser, President
        SAFENOWITZ-Milton. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member, Milton Safenowitz, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Marilyn and children Ellen, Howard and Susan. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Jeffrey Sands, President Robert Fensterman, Secretary
        SAFENOWITZ - Milton. Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Roslyn, N.Y. mourns the death of our dear friend and member and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife, Marilyn, and childen Ellen, Howard and Susan. May God comfort and strengthen them. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster Stanley Shanies, President
      