
        McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Directors and the staff of Greater Harlem Nursing Home together with many others in the healthcare community, are deeply saddened by the loss of an exceptional healthcare leader and good friend. Under Gene's leadership the entire Harlem healthcare community developed countless new and creative ways to provide quality healthcare for the residents of Harlem. The Greater Harlem Nursing Home community extends most sincere condolences to his wife Elsie, his children Kevin, Eugene, Jr. and Erin. Dr. Roscoe Brown, Jr. President, Board of Directors Ms. Reita Fuller, Administrator
        McCABE-Eugene L. The Officers, staff and members of our union join with the healthcare community and the people of Harlem who mourn the passing of this healthcare giant. As president of North General Hospital, he led the way in providing quality healthcare for those who needed it most. To our members at that institution, he was a fellow worker whose door was always open to them. He was always available to hear their problems. We loved him. Dennis Rivera, President Phyllis Harris, Secretaryreas. 1199, National Health and Human Service Employees Union, SEIU, AFL-CIO
        McCABE-Eugene L. The Ryan Community Health Network is greatly saddened by the untimely death of our colleague and friend. Eugene walked with corporate heads and governors, yet found time and energy to work with those in the community health movement. He stayed true to the principle that health care is a RIGHT not a privilege. His death leaves a void in the struggle to make this a reality. Julio Beller Bobbie Maniece-Harrison Barbra E. Minch Dr. John L.S. Holloman, Jr.
        McCABE-Eugene. The Board of Directors and staff of Community Premier Plus deeply mourn the loss of Eugene L. McCabe, President of North General Hospital. Gene's vision and courage led to the rebirth of an entire community. All of us have benefited greatly from his patience, wisdom and compassion. He will be sorely missed. Linnette Webb, Chairperson, Board of Directors Harris K. Lampert, MD, President
        McCABE-Eugene. All of us at Kalkines, Arky, Zall & Bernstein LLP mourn the passing of an extraordinary leader and friend. Gene fought to bring healthcare services to medically underserved residents of our City. His vision and drive established North General Hospital as a premier institution serving the Harlem Community. We will miss him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Kalkines, Arky, Zall & Bernstein
        McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Trustees, faculty, staff and students of Helene Fuld College of Nursing of North General Hospital are deeply saddened and mourn the loss of our good friend, board member, and chief advocate. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Gene McCabe's family. Madlyn Stokely, Chairperson Board of Trustees Peggy Wines, RN, Ph.D, Pres.
        McCABE-Eugene. The Healthcare Association of New York State joins in mourning the untimely passing of Eugene McCabe, President and Chief Executive Officer of North General Hosptial. Gene was a visionary leader who inspired others by his dedication to his community's health and well-being. He will be deeply missed.
        McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York City Outward Bound Center are deeply saddened by the loss of one of our founding Board members. Gene's boldness of spirit, his powerful commitment to improving the lives of the neediest of New Yorkers, and his unyielding tenacity in the face of all obstacles inspired us all.
        McCABE-Eugene L. The Board, staff, and volunteer consultants of the National Executive Service Corps mourn the passing of our Board member, friend, and client, Gene McCabe. We express our deepest sympathy to Elsie, Erin, Eugene and Kevin. Richard M. Clarke, Chairman of the Board
        McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Landmarks Conservancy are deeply saddened by the death of our Advisory Council member, Eugene L. McCabe. We extend deepest sympathy to his family. Stuart N. Siegel, Chairman Peg Breen, President
      