
        McCABE - Eugene L. The Trustees, Faculty and staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai-NYU Medical Center and Health System, deeply mourn the passing of Eugene L. McCabe, founder and President of North General Hospital, an affiliate of Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Gene McCabe shared Mount Sinai's vision of ensuring quality health care for the broadbased needs of the Harlem community. He pursued his dream with passion and persistence, creating a hospital rooted in the community and establishing North General as the only minority-operated hospital in the state. His dedication and commitment will be sorely missed. We extend our condolences to his wife, Elsie Crum, their three children, and the entire McCabe family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Theresa A. Bischoff, Executive Vice President
        McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Governors, membership, and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association join with the health care community of New York in mourning the passing of Eugene McCabe, President of North General Hospital. A great friend and distinguished past Board member of the Association, Gene leaves a legacy of compassionate leadership; he cared deeply about the citizens of Harlem and their health care needs. Gene personally gave life to the new North General Hospital, which is a shining beacon of hope in the community. Gene was a quiet giant whose grace and eloquence serve as a reminder of all that is good in our industry. Although Gene left us too soon, his memory and his deeds will live on. We extend our most sincere condolences to his wife, Elsie, and his children, Kevin, Eugene and Erin. Mark J. Mundy Kenneth E. Raske Greater New York Hospital Assoc.
        McCABE-Eugene L. The students, faculty, alumni, and friends of the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at NYU grieve the loss of Eugene McCabe. Gene was a good friend, an inspiring example of the power of committed leadership, and a true role model for public service. For the past nine years Gene led with enthusiasm and dedication the committee that awards the Samuel and May Rudin Community Service Awards, which recognize exceptional individuals who like him, have dedicated their lives to serve their communities. We send our most heartfelt condolences to his family and loved ones. Jo Ivey Boufford, MD Dean, Robert F. Wagner Graduate School New York University
        MCCABEEUGENE ST#
      