
        FINNEGAN-George B. Jr. One of the country's leading patent lawyers, passed away in California on September 30th at the age of 95. He was a familiar figure in Federal courtrooms throughout the United States and a member of the American College of Trial Lawyers. It was said that most of his well-known Fortune 400 clients quickly retained him after he first defeated them in court. Starting in 1934 with only three lawyers, Mr. Finnegan's firm (now Morgan & Finnegan, L.L.P.) has grown to one hundred lawyers specializing in patent and trademark litigation with offices in New York and Washington, D.C. Mr. Finnegan was a member of numerous legal organizations and was a past president of the New Jersey Patent Law Association. He was also an inventor and, together with his then-partner Hobart Durham, developed a simulator called (Drivotrainer) for testing and training automobile drivers. This device simulated driving situations with movies taken from a moving car. The driver's responses to various road situations in the movie, by use of brake, steering wheel and accelerator, were automatically recorded in a printed record. The simulator was adopted and sponsored by the Aetna Insurance Company as the ''Aetna Drivotrainer.'' It has been used widely throughout the country in driver training courses for high school students. Mr. Finnegan's maternal parents were pioneers in California, crossing the plains in 1849. They eventually settled in Nevada City, California where Mr. Finnegan was born. George Finnegan graduated from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point in June 1924. He served as 2nd Lieutenant in the Regular U.S. Army at Fort Scott, San Francisco. He attended law school at George Washington University and Fordham University. In February 1942, Mr. Finnegan was ordered to West Point where he was appointed Staff Judge Advocate and served, with the rank of Colonel, on the staff of Superintendent Lt. General Maxwell D. Taylor. He was decorated with the Legion of Merit for his wartime service. George Finnegan is survived by his wife, Fidella, his son George III, his daughter, Dana, six grandchildren and five great grandchildren. His first wife, Elizabeth, and his son, Marcus, predeceased him. There will be a requiem mass at West Point Holy Trinity Chapel on October 15 at 1:30 PM. Burial will be with military honors. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to the American Cancer Society.
      