
        CALLAHAN-Dr. Jennie Waugh, an author and noted educator who pioneered the use of children in broadcasting for creative and educational purposes, died on June 27 near her home in Bronxville, New York. Dr. Callahan was the first proponent of using children to enhance the creative content of both radio and television programs. She was also a pioneer in the use of broadcasting to teach dramatic and speech skills to children, while training college students as broadcast producers and directors. Many of her students moved on to become successful with television and radio networks. Entities such as the Children's Television Workshop evolved from her early work in this field. Her first book, ''Radio Workshop for Children'', published in 1948, brought her celebrity in professional broadcasting and educational circles. She worked with CBS and NBC as a creative advisor on broadcasts that included the use of children. This book also led to the formation of what is now the Film and Media Department at Hunter College, where Dr. Callahan was a professor from 1944 until 1977. Her creation of courses at Hunter College titled TV I and TV II pioneered the inclusion of broadcast production in college curriculums, and was featured prominently in the New York Times. Her second book, published in 1954, titled ''Television in School, College & Community'' was equally well received and further pioneered the use of television for educational & community purposes. Dr. Callahan was also the first woman to be named Full Professor at any City Univerity of New York college. Dr. Callahan was 91 years old when she died at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, New York. She was born on March 22, 1907 in Tarkio, Mo. to Dr. Clifton and Anna Mamie McMaster Waugh. She received her Bachelor's degree from Tarkio College, Master's degree from Northwestern University, and PhD from the University of Berlin. She married North Callahan, a noted historian, in 1944 in New York City and lived in Bronxville, NY from 1954 until her death. She is survived by her son, North Callahan, Jr of Bronxville, NY and daughter Mary Alice Covington of Mohegan Lake, NY. Her only sibling, Dr. John M. Waugh, a noted surgeon at the Mayo Clinic, died in 1962.
      