
        McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Governors, membership, and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association join with the health care community of New York in mourning the passing of Eugene McCabe, President of North General Hospital. A great friend and distinguished past Board member of the Association, Gene leaves a legacy of compassionate leadership; he cared deeply about the citizens of Harlem and their health care needs. Gene personally gave life to the new North General Hospital, which is a shining beacon of hope in the community. Gene was a quiet giant whose grace and eloquence serve as a reminder of all that is good in our industry. Although Gene left us too soon, his memory and his deeds will live on. We extend our most sincere condolences to his wife, Elsie, and his children, Kevin, Eugene and Erin. Mark J. Mundy Kenneth E. Raske Greater New York Hospital Assoc.
        McCABE-Eugene L. The leadership of Continuum Health Partners, Inc. joins with the communities of its three member hospitals, Beth Israel, St. Luke's-Roosevelt and Long Island College Hospital, in acknowledging with sadness, the untimely passing of our dear friend and colleague Eugene L. McCabe, President of North General Hospital. We extend our condolences to his family and friends, and all who loved him. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Robert G. Newman, MD, President and CEO
        McCABE-Eugene. The board of directors and staff of the United Hospital Fund are deeply saddened by the loss of a good friend and exceptional health care leader. During his tenure at North General Hospital, he led the way in assuring high-quality health care for the Harlem community. Gene inspired everyone with whom he worked with the enormous spirit and dedication that he brought to all he did. Howard Smith, Chairman James R. Tallon, Jr., President
        McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Trustees, Administration, Medical Staff and staff of North General Hospital deeply mourn the untimely loss of their beloved President and Chief Executive Officer. Our leader for the past 20 years, Mr. McCabe made the dream of quality healthcare for Harlem the reality of North General Hospital.
        McCABE-Eugene L. The Board of Trustees and the staff of the Museum for African Art extends its deepest sympathy to the McCabe family. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his wife Elsie, our President, and their children Eugene Jr. and Erin.
      