
        OPPENHEIMER-Beryl. Of New York City, on October 1, 1998. Beloved cousin, friend and humanitarian. Funeral services to be held at Bachman Kulik Funeral Home, 17th & Hamilton Streets, Allentown, PA., on Sunday, October 4th at 12 noon.
        OPPENHEIMER-Beryl F. The trustees & staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services are deeply saddened by the loss of Beryl F. Oppenheimer, an active member of the agency's Board of Trustees and an esteemed mental helath professional. Ms Oppenheimer worked as an intern at JBFCS' North Brooklyn Office while earning her MSW at the Columbia University School of Social Work. She joined our board in 1984 and served on our divisional committees for AIDS Services, the Child Development Center, Kaplan House and Madeleine Borg Community Services. She was also a trustee of the Martha K. Selig Educational Institute, the agency's in-service training arm. We at JBFCS will miss her hard work and committment and her devotion to families and children in need. We extend our deepest sympathy to the members of Ms Oppenheimer's family. Joseph S. Kaplan, President, Seymour R. Askin, Jr. Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive Vice President
        OPPENHEIMER-Beryl F. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Beryl F. Oppenheimer, a cherished friend, and a major supporter of our mission. Her dedication to our organization included helping bring a million Soviet Jews to Israel through Operation Exodus, rehabilitating distressed Israeli communities through Project Renewal, and serving on our AIDS task force. In addition to Planned Giving & Endowments and Jewish women's issues, Beryl was a board member of the Jewish Board of Family & Children's Services, a UJA-Federation beneficiary, where she was actively involved with the Joint Passover Association. Our deepest sympathies go to the entire family. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Susan K. Stern, Chair, Women's Campaign Stephen D. Solender, Exec. VP
      