
        HALLISEY-James Vincent. October 16, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Nancy Hallisey. Loving father of James V. Hallisey, Jr. and Tamara Hallisey-Hatfield. Cherished grandfather of Sasha A. Hatfield and James V. Hallisey III and Mark O. Hatfield III. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue and 81st Street, Sunday, October 18, 7-9 PM and Monday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, Tuesday, 10 AM at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, 66th Street at Lexington Avenue. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York.
        HALLISEY-James V. The Board of Trustees of Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System deeply mourn the death of James V. Hallisey, Esq., a member of the Board and a dedicated, caring friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to his children and their families. JamesHallisey will be remembered for his commitment to Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System and his many contributions as a member of the Board of Trustees from January 1994, when the System was established, until his passing. We also are grateful for his service to Rosalie Hall, a unique home for young, unwed mothers, where he served as the first Chairman of the Board of Trustees. His knowledge of health care law, his keen insights into health care issues and his sincere concern for others are hallmarks of his long and distinguished career. Edwin S. Mruk, Chairman of the Board Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System Gary S. Horan, FACHE, President and Chief Executive Officer Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System Sister Diane Prusinski, sm Executive Director Rosalie Hall
        HALLISEY-James V. Esq. The Board of Trustees of Catholic Health Care Network expresses their deep sadness at the passing of their fellow Trustee. Mr. Hallisey has been a Trustee on the CHCN Board since the Network was formed in 1996. He had served loyally and faithfully to the Catholic health care mission in the Archdiocese of New York for many years. In addition to his role as CHCN Trustee, Mr. Hallisey was Counsel to Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese for many of its nursing homes and served as a member of CHCN's Nursing Home Advisory Council. He also served on the Board of Directors for Our Lady of Mercy Health Care System and Carmel Richmond Nursing Home. Recently, he received Kateri Residence's Father Donald J. Poulin Award and had been awarded the Panis Vitae Meritorious Service Award in 1995. Our prayers are with his family. He was a true friend to Catholic health care in the Archdiocese and he will be sorely missed. Mary Healey-Sedutto, Ph.D. Executive Director and CEO Edwin S. Mruk Chairman
        HALLISEY-James V., Esq. The Board of Trustees, the priests, religious and staff of The Catholic Charities of The Archdiocese of New York record with heartfelt sympathy the death of our dear friend, James V. Hallisey, Esq. He served as special counsel to Catholic Charities for nursing homes and health care law and as a valued member of The Archdiocesan Legal Advisory Committee. We treasure the memory of his strong faith, his love for the poor and needy and all those served by Catholic Charities, his quiet graciousness, his wisdom and advice and his special devotion to the plight of Irish immigrants and to the cause of peace on the island of Ireland. We thank God for his life with us and we express our sincere condolences to his family whom he loved so dearly. John Cardinal O'Connor, President Rev. Msgr. James J. Murray, Secy
        HALLISEY-James V. We mourn the loss of a long standing friend and colleague on Friday, October 16, 1998 after a long illness. A wonderful man with a high regard for honor and integrity. He will be sorely missed. Mitchell M. Bailey and Associates and Staff
      