
        THALHEIM-Beth. We all mourn the passing of a most very special person. Beth was a remarkable lady. She was truly a one-of-a-kind individual. She had a way about her that generated a spark of life wherever she went. Beth was the devoted wife of 48 years to her husband Jay. They were always a team, and worked alongside one another for over forty years to build one of the largest trade show and exposition management companies in the U.S. Beth will always be remembered as one of the true pioneers in the exposition industry. She will be deeply missed by her three children, David Thalheim, Amy Handwerker, and Neil Thalheim. They will always remember the fond moments spent together with their Mom. Her nine grandchildren, Lindsay, Adam, Michael, Marc, Benjamim, Shira, Rena, Eliana and Raphael will also miss the wonderful times spent with their grandmother. Funeral services will be held on Friday, October 9, at 12:30 pm at ''RiversideNassau North Chapels'', located at: 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck (located North of Great Neck railroad station--516-487-9600). Shiva will be at the home of Jay Thalheim, 264 Sparrow Drive, Manhasset (located in The Estates I on Searingtown Road) from Saturday evening thru Tuesday evening. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to The Asthma-dedicated Clinical Research Center at The North Shore University HospitalLong Island Jewish Medical Center in Manhasset, NY.
        THALHEIM-Beth. It is with profound sorrow that we mourn the loss of Beth Thalheim, wife of our former Board Member, Jay Thalheim. We extend our sincere condolences to Jay, Amy and Bill, David and Allison and their respective families. Fresh Meadow Country Club Board of Governors President Steven Howard Secretary Allen Kaplan
        THALHEIM-Beth. The Board of Governors of Delaire Country Club, and their members, are saddened by the sudden and untimely passing of their member, Beth Thalheim, and extend their sincere condolences to her entire family. Robert Goldberg, President
        THALHEIM-Beth. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        THALHEIM-Beth. We mourn the passing of the mother of our esteemed member Neil Thalheim and pray that the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Young Israel of Great Neck
        THALHEIM-Beth. For a Grand Lady, who we all will miss, but we will never ever forget. Beth, your heart was almost as big as your generosity. Cliff and Lorri Slavin
        THALHEIM-Beth. A unique woman. To know her, was to love her. Barbara, Buddy and Family
        THALHEIM-Beth. Jay, it was a valiant struggle for both of you. Beth is now at peace. All our love and respect. Zina and Joe
      