
        JOHNSTON-Albert Caldwell Johnston, Ponte Vedra Beach, FL., and until recently, of Darien, CT, died Monday, October 12, 1998. He was born Dec. 7, 1909 in Chattanooga, TN and grew up there and in Fort Thomas, KY. In 1930, he was graduated from Miami Univ., Oxford, Ohio where he joined the Sigma Chi Fraternity. Later, he served as legal counsel to Sigma Chi, and was appointed to its Order of Constantine. He received his LLD in 1934 from George Washington Univ. with honors, a member of its Order of the Coif, while working full-time for the U.S. Patent Office. He began his patent law practice in New York City in 1939. He became a member of the District of Columbia Bar, the New York State Bar, the Connecticut Bar, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. He was admitted to practice in the U.S. Supreme Court and various U.S. Courts of Appeals and District Courts, and was elected President of the New York Patent Law Association. He was instrumental in drafting and promoting landmark Design Protection Legislation, and was honored by the American Bar Association in 1987 for his 50 years of exemplary membership. After 35 years of commuting, he moved his practice to Stamford, CT., where he was senior partner with the firm of St. Onge, Steward, Johnston & Reens until his retirement in 1995. In Darien, he was elected to the Board of Education, on which he served over 10 years during the critical growth period of the town, and was Chairman for several years, promoting education excellence. He was then elected to the Board of Selectmen, serving on the Budget committee and chairing the Long Range Planning Committee. He was a member of Wee Burn Country Club since 1942, the Landmark Club, and was active in the First Congregational Church during the '40's and '50's. Survivors include his beloved Jane Rose, his daughters Bonnie Jane Hamilton of Bradenton, FL., and Virginia of Oslo, Norway, and a son, Robert M. of Leesburg, VA; seven grandchildren, and one great granddaughter
      