
        BIRKOFER-John. On October 7, 1998. Loving father of Catherine Johnson, Karin Sturtevant, Carole Rynn and Anne Ellis, dear brother of Richard and William Birkofer and devoted grandfather of seven. Services will be Sat., 9:00am from Gleason Funeral Home, 1360 Hamilton St., Somerset, NJ., followed by a 9:15AM funeral mass at St. Matthias R.C. Church in Somerset. Cremation will follow at Franklin Memorial Park in No. Brunswick. Relatives and friends may call Friday 2-4; 7-9PM at Funeral Home.
        BIRKOFER-John R. The Board of Trustees, Sisters of Charity, Hospital Auxiliary, Administration, Medical Staff and Hospital Staff of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center of New York mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and former Chairman of the Board of Trustees. John Birkofer was appointed to the Board of Trustees of Saint Vincents Hospital in 1976 and elected Chairman six years later. During his 10 years as Chairman, Mr. Birkofer gave unstintingly of his time and talents. He guided the Medical Center through a challenging period in its history and in the process created a stronger and more viable institution. He reconstructed the Board of Trustees to enable it to function more productively, and led a $50 million capital campaign that not only helped finance a facilities modernization project, but provided Saint Vincents with a substantial endowment. He confronted the challenges posed by the environment of scarce resources, restrictive regulations and changing reimbursement mechanisms, with a plan that applied sound business practices that perpetuated Saint Vincents' mission and tradition of excellence. He served Saint Vincents with remarkable vision, leadership and professional expertise, setting high standards for institutional management without compromising the spirit of compassion that is at the heart of Saint Vincents' mission. Mr. Birkofer's volunteer achievements won him national recognition. From 1986 to 1989, he served on the Board of the Catholic Health Association, and in 1987, he was named Trustee of the Year by Modern Healthcare Magazine. With great sadness we extend to his daughters and entire Birkofer family, our love, prayers and deepest condolences. Thomas A. Coleman, Chairman of the Board Karl P. Adler, MD, President and Chief Executive Officer of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center
      