
        SICULAR-Arthur. On October 22, 1998 after a vigorous life and brief illness. Beloved husband of Lilian. Loving father of David, Michael, Eve and Steven. Father-in-law of Lili. Dear grandfather of Jonathan, Sarah and Rebecca. Service Friday, 12 noon, at Congregation Emanu-el of Westchester, 2125 Westchester Avenue East, Rye, NY. Contributions in his memory to NARSAD, 60 Cutter Mill Road, Suite 404, Great Neck, NY 11021.
        SICULAR-Dr. Arthur. Our sincerest condolences to the family of Arthur Sicular. We're going to miss our wonderful friend, but he will always live on in our memories. Diane and Fin Fogg
        SICULAR - Arthur, M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai-NYU Medical Center and Health System deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Arthur Sicular, M.D., Associate Clinical Professor of Surgery, who was associated with Mount Sinai for more than forty-five years. Following graduation from Harvard College and Harvard Medical School, where his was an outstanding student, Dr. Sicular joined The Mount Sinai Hospital as a surgical intern in 1953 and became associated with John Garlock, M.D., one of Mount Sinai's legendary physicians who was making major contributions to the field of esophageal surgery. Dr. Sicular became a brilliant surgeon in his own right, noted for compassion for his patients, technical skill and contributions to his field. Dr. Sicular was the principal esophageal surgeon at Mount Sinai for many years. He also published extensively, was active in numerous professional organizations, including the New York Academy of Gastroenterology which he served as president in 1983-84, and he was honored with the Esophageal Club Award of Distinction in 1989. He will be remembered warmly and he will be sorely missed. We extend sincere condolences to his wife Lilian, to his children, David, Eve, Michael and Steven, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Theresa A. Bischoff, Executive Vice President Alan L. Schiller, M.D., President, Medical Board
        SICULAR - Arthur, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our cherished colleague and friend. A member of our Executive Board for over ten years, Arthur was an ardent supporter of the Alumni and could always be counted on to support the association's activities. He will be remembered as a devoted, indefatigable physician and a creative thinker with a remarkable zest for life. A warm and generous friend, ''he was the only and best Arthur Sicular that ever was''. He will be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Lilian and his children, David, Eve, Michael and Steven. Wayne S. Fuchs, M.D., President Avi Barbasch, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, Treasurer
        SICULAR - Arthur, M.D. The Mount Sinai Association of the Attending Staff mourns the untimely loss of our beloved colleague. A brilliant, fearless and innovative surgeon, he was renowned for the unflagging enthusiasm, energy, and expertise he brought to the operating room, squash and tennis court, smorgasbord, keyboard, concert hall, family, and friends. He was dynamic, good-hearted, and one-of-a-kind. With no new ''Arthur stories,'' Mount Sinai will be a much more boring place. We extend our deepest sympathy to his devoted Lilian, David, Eve, Michael, and Steven. Peter H. Rubin, MD, President Lynda Mandell, MD, Secretary Amy J. Weinstein, Administrator
        SICULAR-Arthur, M.D. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member Dr. Arthur Sicular and extend sincere condolences to his family. Roy R. Raizen, President
        SICULAR-Dr. Arthur. We extend our sincere condolences to Lilian Sicular and her family on the loss of her husband, Dr. Arthur Sicular. Dr. and Mrs. Ronald Caplan
      