
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. Died Tuesday evening of a sudden heart attack. All of us at Proskauer Rose LLP are united in our grief over the loss of this remarkable person. Herb possessed almost unparallelled energy and superior intellect which resulted in accomplishments rarely achieved. He approached every challenge with the same brilliance, confidence and decision making style that defined him. We have all benefited by working with and knowing such a dynamic man. In this time of heartbreaking loss, our sympathy goes out to his wife Wendy Schriber, his children Jordan, Adam and Jonathan, his father Seymour Weinstein and his sister Meryl Berstein. The funeral service will be held today at 11:30 AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel in Manhattan. Stanley Komaroff, Chair Proskauer Rose LLP
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. It is with great sorrow that the Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the tragic and untimely passing of Herbert T. Weinstein, a dedicated friend and supporter. Our deepest sympathies go to: his wife, Wendy Schreiber; his children, Jordan, Adam, and Jonathan; his sister, Meryl Berstein; and to the entire family. May you be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. VP
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. The Board of Directors and staff of The Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Assn., Greater New York Chapter deeply mourn the untimely passing of Herb Weinstein, beloved husband of our distinguished and devoted board member, Wendy Shriber. Our heartfelt sympathy to our dear friend Wendy, his children, Jordan, Adam and Jonathan, and the entire Weinstein family. John L. Ernst Chairman of the Board Dorine Gordon, President Lauri Novick, Executive Director
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. We at Congregation B'nai Yisrael in Armonk shall profoundly miss our friend, former vice-president of our congregation, who was so important a part of our community. We share our sadness and our love with his wife Wendy, daughter Jordan, and sons, Jonathan and Adam. Shelly R. Jacob, President Rabbi Douglas E. Krantz Cantor Jennifer Werby Levy
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. We are deeply saddened by the sudden and untimely loss of our dear and loyal friend. Herb was a brilliant lawyer who provided us with extraordinary guidance and counsel in good times and bad times. We will miss his special friendship. We extend our deepest sympathy to Wendy, Jonathan, Adam and Jordan. Jay and Lucille Chazanoff
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. A trusted counselor, mentor and steadfast friend. An extraordinary man whose advice, support and devotion for his family, friends and colleagues will be greatly missed. Our most sincere condolences to Wendy, Jordan, Jonathan and Adam. Lawrence and Lisa Cohen
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member, Herbert Weinstein. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to his family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Dr. Samuel C. Klagsbrun President
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. He was our legal counsel, our trusted advisor and our true friend. We will miss his dedication, his intensity, his loyalty and his guidance. Our prayers go to Wendy, Jordan, Jonathan and Adam. U.S. Realty Advisors, LLC
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. He was our best friend & counselor to our family. We will miss him deeply. Our prayers & love go to Wendy, Jonathan, Adam and Jordan. Richard, Pam, Jenny, Jason and Lori Ader.
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. A good friend, wonderful teacher and a pleasure to work out with. Herb ''pushed the hell out of it.'' I will miss him very much. Andrew S. Borrok
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert. He was a wonderful friend and counselor to our family. We will miss him deeply. Our prayers and love go to Wendy, Jonathan, Adam, Jordan. The Zises Family
        WEINSTEIN-Herbert T. A brilliant, tenacious and devoted advocate. A fiercely loyal friend. We will miss you, sleep well, Sweet Prince. Ramie and Jerry Silbert
      