
        WOLSTEIN-Benjamin, Ph.D. On October 7, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Irma Holland. Loving uncle of Carlos Wolstein. Dear great-uncle of Patricia & Claudia. Service on Friday, at 11 A.M., at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        WOLSTEIN-Benjamin, Ph.D. The members of the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and Society were overcome by shock, sorrow and a singular sense of overwhelming loss on learning of the sudden death of Benjamin Wolstein. Dr. Wolstein came to the Institute with a background in philosophy and psychology. He received his Certificate in Psychoanalysis in 1957 and in subsequent years became a much revered member of the Faculty, a Training and Supervising Analyst, a member of the Council of Fellowes and a distinguished writer. Nonetheless these accomplishments speak little to the profundity of a brilliant and deeply beloved man. Ben Wolstein was an uncommon man: complex, provocative, iconoclastic and indefatigably decent and kind. Intensely committed to his patients and to his students, he did not lose himself in his profession, but found time for other pursuits which added to the fullness of his being. He shaped hundreds of professionals whose minds he opened to great possibilities. They will keep him alive. Ben dedicated his book, ''Freedom to Experience'', to the memory of his sister Marjorie, ''who,'' he wrote, ''had she been able to record her experience of living, could have made all such dedicated works into pale reflections of the true meaning and worth of human being.'' And such was the man. Marylou Lionells, Ph.D Director White Institute Robert Watson, Ph.D President, White Society
        WOLSTEIN-Dr. Benjamin. The New York University Postdoctoral Program in Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis deeply mourns the loss of Dr. Benjamin Wolstein. He was a well-known, remarkable scholar who made significant contributions to both the theory and practice of psychoanalysis, a courageous & honored psychoanalyst, supervisor & teacher, and a man whose integrity and spirit have been an inspiration to patients and students in psychoanalysis for close to 50 years. He will be sorely missed for the unique individual that he was, but his spirit will live on with the rest of us. Dr. Lewis Aron, Director NYU Postdoctoral Program in Psychotherapy and Psychoanalysis
      