
        LAULER-David P., M.D., 67, of Old Lyme, CT. died on Sunday, November 8, 1998 in Dallas, TX while attending a meeting of the American Heart Association. Dr. Lauler's medical career spanned over forty years in patient care, research, academia, medical education, and hospital staff administration. As a recognized pioneer in medical education, Dr. Lauler's lifelong and most recent work included the development and delivery of extensive lecture and seminars in the field of cardiology, endocrinology and medical ethics to medical audiences worldwide. In addition, as an avid user of computer technology, he recently initiated and directed several endeavors aimed at utilization of the World wide Web in postgraduate medical education. In 1996 he retired from the Lawrence and Memorial Hospital of New London, CT. from his position as Chairman, Department of Medicine and Director of Medical Education. In addition to his many medical and professional appointments, Dr. Lauler was a Knight with the American Association of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta. In 1997 he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Medicine in Stockholm, Sweden, in recognition of his lifelong dedication to medicine and education. Dr. Lauler received his M.D. and B.S. from Georgetown University. His postgraduate training included positions at Bellevue, NYC, and New York University as an American Heart Association Research Fellow. He conducted advanced fellowships in cardiology and endocrinology at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston. He held faculty positions at the Harvard Medical School & Yale School of Medicine. He is survived by his wife, Joan O'Connor Lauler, daughters, Karen Hopkins of Califon, N.J., Maureen Sirna of Brooklyn, N.Y., son John Lauler of Old Lyme, CT., a brother, John Lauler of Old Lyme, sisters, Edith Kissell of State College, Penn. & Ruth Ann Hernandez of Brevard, N.C. and four grandchildren. He was predeceased by daughter Colleen Marie Lauler, a sister, Terri Sweitzer and a granddaughter Marie Lauler Sirna. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at 11 AM on Friday, November 13, 1998 at St. Mary Star of the Sea Church, New London, CT. Burial will follow in Duck River Cemetery, Old Lyme. Friends may call on Thursday evening from 6-9 PM at the Fulton-Theroux Funeral Home, Beckwith Lane, Old Lyme. Donations may be made in his memory to Hospice of Southeastern CT, P.O. Box 902, Uncasville, CT 06382 or to St. Joseph's Abbey, 167 North Spencer Road, Spencer, MA 01562.
      