
        ZOLA CAHN-Lenore. The Village Temple mourns the passing of one of our long-time members, Mrs. Lenore Cahn Zola, 91 years old. Our condolences to children, Edgar S. Cahn and Mary Cahn Schwartz, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Lenore was an active and beloved community member. She will be remembered for her kindness, elegance and outstanding achievements. Funeral on Tuesday, November 3 at the Village Temple, 33 East 12 Street New York City at 11 A.M. Rabbi Dennis N. Math Rabbi Burt Siegel Sheryl Harawitz Joan Brancaccio Co-Presidents
        ZOLA-Lenore Cahn. November 1, 1998. Dear mother of Mary Schwartz and Edgar Cahn, grandmother of Jonathan Cahn, Reuben Cahn, and Susan Schwartz Levin, great-grandmother of Aaron Cahn & Danielle Cahn. Funeral service Tuesday, November 3rd, 11 AM, at Village Temple, 33 E. 12th St., NYC. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to Village Center for Care, 154 Christopher St., NY 10014 or Caring Community Inc., 20 Washington Square No., NY 10003
        ZOLA-Lenore. In Greenwich Village, Lenore Zola's dedication, undaunted spirit, tireless efforts, and selflessness on behalf of older adults and persons living with AIDS and HIV illness has been inspirational to all. As one of the community founders of our notfor-profit Village Nursing Home, and a long-time board member of our organization, she was steadfast and determined to help our neighbors in need. Our collective thoughts are with those who loved her. Lenore's leadership, vision, enthusiasm - and love - will be missed by all of us. The Board, Staff, Administration, Clients, and Residents of Village Care of New York
        ZOLA-Lenore. To our beloved Board member, noted for her outstanding leadership. As a Founder of the Caring Community, she was a guiding force in helping to establish many programs, especially our ''Volunteer Exchange.'' Lenore-good friend and supporter of the Caring Coummunity and the entire Village community. She will be sorely missed. Board of Directors Caring Community
      