
        GULKIN-Anita Kurman. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Anita Kurman Gulkin, President and CEO of Greenwich House. Highly regarded for her dedication to the community, Ms. Gulkin started her distinguished career as a social worker in Beth Israel's substance abuse services program and went on to serve Greenwich House for nearly 30 years. To her brother, Beth Israel attending physician, Martin Kurman, M.D., the Kurman and Gulkin families and all who loved her, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Robert G. Newman, MD, President and CEO, CHP Matthew E. Fink, MD, President and CEO, BIMC Beverly L. Richman, MD, Chief Medical Services Methadone Maintenance Treatment Program, BIMC Addie Corradi, Administrative Director MMTP, BIMC
        GULKIN-Anita Kurman. On Nov. 8, 1998. Loving wife of Samuel. Dear sister of Dr. Martin Kurman & Bernice Winarsky. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. A beloved friend that will be greatly missed. Services are at 12:30 P.M., November 10 at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers the family request contributions be made to Greenwich House, 27 Barrow Street, New York City.
        GULKIN-Anita Kurman. The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of Greenwich House record with great sorrow the death of Anita Kurman Gulkin, President and CEO, on November 8th. Her extraordinary compassion for people in need, her unflagging determination to help them and her selflessness made her an inspirational leader and one who will never be forgotten. Employed in 1968 as a supervisor for Greenwich House's Drug Programs, she became director of our Substance Abuse Clinics four years later. In 1976, after a nationwide search, she was appointed Executive Director of Greenwich House, only the third in our 96-year history. During her twenty-two year directorship, Anita lead Greenwich House through great change, progress and growth, implementing programs to help people living with HIV and AIDS, alcoholics and abused children as well as a methadone treatment clinic and artsin-education program. Her leadership in the field of human services extended well beyond Greenwich House: she was the Chair of the Caring Community and the West Side Association of Community Centers, co-founder and Director of Executive Women in Human Services, member of the Board of Directors of Urban Pathways, Vice President of Columbia University's INM Alumni Association, guest lecturer at Columbia and New York University, a recipient of United Way's Big Apple Award, an honoree of the Manhattan Borough President's Office Women's Herstory Month, and an inductee into the Greenwich Village Hall of Fame. Anita's unmatched spirit and optimism will continue to touch the lives of thousands of New Yorkers through the legacy she has left at Greenwich House and throughout the city. Our deepest sympathy to her husband Samuel Gulkin, brother Martin Kurman, M.D., sister Bernice Winarsky and entire family. We will deeply miss our beloved leader. Edward A.K. Adler, Chair
        GULKIN-Anita Kurman. The Board of Directors, the Staff and the Members of The Caring Community mourn the passing of its beloved Chair for over a decade. Much loved & respected for her effectiveness and visionary leadership, she was re-elected time and again. A warm and compassionate woman who included everyone in her graciousness, she was noted for her wit and easy relationships. A leader in the field of Social Work in Greenwich Village, she championed the cause of agency collaboration throughout her career. Anita was a mentor to The Caring Community during its infancy and growth. She enthusiastically attended all of our senior functions and especially loved presiding over the Passover Seder each year. Anita was honored for her vital role within the organization on our 20th Anniversary and as we prepare to celebrate our 25th, she will be sorely missed. Such an integral part of the Caring Community, her passing will leave an almost impossible void to fill.
        GULKIN-Anita Kurman. The Institute for Not-for-Profit Management at Columbia University Graduate School of Business mourns the passing of Anita Kurman Gulkin, an esteemed alumna and former president of the INM Alumni Association. A wonderful resource to alumni, faculty and staff, she will be missed by all.
        GULKIN-Anita Kurman. The Board of Directors and staff of United Neighborhood Houses are saddened by the passing of our friend and colleague, and extend our deepest sympathies to Anita's family and the staff at Greenwich House. Emily Menlo Marks, Exec. Dir.
        GULKIN-Anita Kurman. Our friend, our mentor, our energy-a leader whose courage inspired everyone she touched. Anita, we will surely miss you. Jane Velez and Project Return Foundation
        GULKIN-Anita Kurman. An angel working tirelessly to help others, Anita has been taken from us. Words cannot describe the loss. Joram
      