
        NAGLE-Sister Mary Robert. On November 9, 1998. Member of the Sisters of Charity, Mount Saint Vincent, Bronx, New York. Former Director of Saint Vincent's Hospital School of Nursing, 19671991. Primary Care Nurse, Deptartment of Community Medicine, of Saint Vincent's Hospital 19911998. Beloved daughter of the late Robert and Marion. Loving sister of Richard (Madelyn). Dear aunt of Richard, Jr. & Yvette. Reposing Redden Funeral Home, 325 West 14 Street, NYC Wednesday, 4-9PM and Thursday, 2-9PM in the Saint Elizabeth Ann Seton Chapel of Saint Vincent's Hospital. Please enter through 158 West 12 Street, New York. Mass of Christian Burial Friday, 10AM in the Hospital Chapel. Interment Saint Joseph's Cemetery, Yonkers, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Development Fund, Sisters of Charity, Mount Saint Vincent, Bronx, New York 10741.
        NAGLE-Sister Mary Robert. The Medical Staff of Saint Vincents Hospital notes with great sorrow the passing of Sister Robert. Sister Robert, as Director of our School of Nursing, trained over three generations of nurses who cared skillfully and lovingly for our patients. Sister Robert was a devoted advocate of the poor & homeless and dedicated her tremendous abilities in caring for the less fortunate members of society. The Medical Staff of Saint Vincents Hospital & the nursing profession have lost a beloved and respected friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family, the Sisters of Charity, the faculty and alumni of the School of Nursing, and very specially to Sister M. Kevin Phillips. Eduardo M. Gonzalez, MD President Medical Staff Saint Vincents Hospital
        NAGLE-Sister Mary Robert, S.C. The Board of Trustees, Sisters of Charity, Hospital Auxiliary, Administration, and the entire family of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center mourn the loss of our beloved friend and colleague, Sister Mary Robert, a cherished member of the Hospital Staff for over 50 years. Sister Mary Robert was the Director of Saint Vincent School of Nursing for 24 years until 1991, and then continued her mission of charity by providing nursing care to patients at a shelter for homeless men until her death. Sister was an active leader of many regional and national nursing educational organizations. She received numerous awards culminating in The Hospital's Saint Elizabeth Seton Award. She was known for her outstanding intellectual ability, leadership qualities, and her commitment to her family, The Sisters of Charity and Saint Vincent Hospital and Medical Center. With great sadness, we extend our prayers and condolences to The Sisters of Charity, her brother, Richard Nagel, her sister-in-law, Madelyn, and their family. Thomas A. Coleman, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Karl P. Adler, MD, President and Chief Executive Officer of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center
        NAGLE-Sister Mary Robert. The Board of Directors and the membership of St. Vincents Hospital School of Nursing Alumnae Association are deeply saddened by the loss of her presence in our lives and feel greatly blessed that we were privileged to know her. Joan Caruana, President
      