
        KUTSHER-Milton. Owner and President of Kutsher's Country Club, a leading hotel in the Catskills, died on Monday, November 16th of a heart attack. Kutsher, and his wife, Helen, joined forces to build the business from a rooming house founded in 1907 by Louis and Max Kutsher, to its present status as a world-renowned resort. A Monticello native, Kutsher went on to graduate from the University of Pennsylvania in 1937 with a degree in journalism. Following his service in World War II, Kutsher, returned to Monticello to begin his stewardship of the resort with his brother Joe. A visionary leader and one of Sullivan County's most prominent citizens, Kutsher served as President of the Catskill Resort Association, was a founder and Chairman of the Board of Monticello Raceway, a Director of the Key Bank and the Trust Company of New Jersey, and as Chairman of the Publicity Commission of Sullivan County. An active alumnus, Kutsher was a member of the University of Pennsylvania's Benjamin Franklin Society. A devotee of sports and a man of great philanthropic character, Kutsher was one of the founders of the Maurice Stokes Memorial Fund Foundation. The hotel continues to host the annual classic basketball game, now in its 41st year, which raises monies for needy veteran NBA players. Kutsher was a Trustee of the National Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, MA. and was inducted into the New York City Basketball Hall of Fame in 1996. In addition to the hotel, Kutsher and his wife own and operate Kutsher's Sport Academy, a leading sports training center for youth. They also operated Kutsher's Camp Anawana for more than twenty years. The resort continues as a family business under the leadership of Helen, son, Mark and daughter-inlaw, Carla. In addition, he is survived by two daughters, Mady Prowler, of Philadelphia, PA. and Karen Wilson, of Bryn Mawr, PA; their spouses, Don Prowler and Jeffrey Wilson, and seven grandchildren. Services will be held in Monticello on Thursday, November 19, 1998, at 12:30 P.M. at the Landfield Avenue Synagogue.
        KUTSHER-Milton. The Lipmans wish to express our condolences to the entire Kutsher Family on the passing of Milton Kutsher. Milton was an important part of our family, a very dear friend and a man whose memory will be with us forever.
      