
        HOVELL-Larry Lebanus, Sr, 58, the son of Ellen Stewart, the founder and director of La MaMa E.T.C., of Green Bay, Wisconsin passed away on Monday, November 23, 1998. He was born to Larry and Ellen Stewart Hovell on October 25, 1940 in Chicago, Illinois. Larry attended DuSable High School in Chicago, IL and Upper Iowa University in Fayette, Iowa. Upon graduation from college he enlisted in the U.S. Army where he fought in the Vietnam war and received an honorable discharge. Larry moved to Green Bay in October of 1987 to become the owner of Bay City Chrysler Plymouth, Inc. While in Green Bay, Larry was a strong advocate of the greater business and civic community and was loved and respected by all that knew him. Larry's leadership in the business community was recognized by many, this was seen by him serving on the Board of the Green Bay Chamber of Commerce, as a member of the Green Bay Economic Development Commission and Daimler Chrysler National Dealers' Council, and as Vice President for Chrysler Minority Dealers Association. He was also a member of St. Bernards Catholic Church, Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc, Scottish Rite, the Lodge Council Chapter of Consistory Masons, the Red Cross, Big Brothers and Big Sisters, and the local Shriners. In addition he was a sponsor of the University of WisconsinGreen Bay Women's Basketball team and served on the St. Norbert Diversity team. Larry has received numerous awards from the Green Bay Community, including the Green Bay Chamber of Commerce Small Business Person of The Year Award in June of 1998. In October of 1998 after receiving the Sam Walton Foundation Business Leader Award, Mayor Paul Jadin presented him with the Key to the City of Green Bay. Larry leaves to cherish his life a loving and devoted wife, Yvonne, one daughter, Soraya Hovell of Chicago, IL. Three sons, Larry Jr, at home, Thomas Wynder, Detroit, and Rahsaan Peak, Durham, NC. A loving mother, Ellen Stewart Hovell, NY, NY. One sister, Norma Stallworth, Chicago, IL. One foster brother, Duk Hyung Yoo, Seoul, Korea. One grandchild, Samuel Tyler Robinson, Chicago, IL. Two aunts Ada Daniels, Las Vegas, NV and Agnes (James) Lewis, Chicago. Mother-in-law Kathryn Dawkins Worten, Green Bay, WI; a host of nieces, nephews, cousins, in-Laws and dear friends. He was preceded in death by his father Larry Hovell and a son Robert. Services were held in Green Bay and Chicago. Burial in Lincoln Cemetery, Chicago.
      