
        HANDLER-Prof. Milton. Beloved husband of the late Miriam Adler Handler. Devoted father of Carole. Loving grandfather of Alisa and Ilana Schoenbach, and dear uncle. Service Thursday, 11AM at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th St and Madison Ave, NYC.
        HANDLER-Milton. We deeply mourn the loss of Milton Handler, an extraordinary man whose exemplary leadership had a profound impact on The American Friends of the Hebrew University (AFHU) and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. We are indebted to him for his many years of selfless service and devotion to the American Friends and The Hebrew University. Few could match his untiring leadership and participation. For over forty years he dedicated himself to The Hebrew University and AFHU, serving as a Chairman of the Board of Governors of The Hebrew University. At AFHU he served as a member of our Board of Directors, as Chairman of our Board, as a member of the Executive Committee and other standing committees. Through his efforts, the Albert Einstein archives are now housed at the University. His good will and wise counsel were matched by his generosity as a donor to AFHU. The Handler Auditorium at the Harry S Truman Institute for Peace on the Mount Scopus Campus was named in Milton Handler's honor for his ceaseless efforts on behalf of the Institute and the University. He was a recipient of an honorary doctorate from The Hebrew University in 1965 and the AFHU Scopus Award in 1963. We extend our sympathies to his daughter, Carole Handler. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President The American Friends of The Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President Fred S. Lafer, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        HANDLER-Milton. The partners of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler, LLP, mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, advisor and trusted friend, Milton Handler, who died Tuesday, November 10, 1998 at the age of 95. Professor Handler joined the firm in 1951 as a name partner after earning an international reputation in the field of antitrust law and after teaching, for many years, at Columbia University School of Law. On May 21 of this year, Professor Handler was awarded The John Sherman Award, which was bestowed upon him by the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice in Washington, D.C. The firm extends its deepest condolences to the Handler family.
        HANDLER-Milton. The Board of Directors and Unit Owners of Tower Vallencay of Ibis Isle, Palm Beach, FL, acknowledges with great sorrow the passing of a beloved friend, dedicated Board Member, & outstanding neighbor. His brilliant career as a jurist, his care and devotion to the best interest of the building will be sorely missed. We deeply mourn his passing and extend our condolences to his family. Sadly, he leaves a void difficult to replace and one that shall deeply affect us all. Arthur Rodbell, President Tower Vallencay
        HANDLER-Prof. Milton. The Board of Directors, the shareholders of 625 Park Avenue, the staff and Wallack Management mourn the loss of long-time resident and valued Board member, Professor Handler. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his family.
        HANDLER-Milton. Columbia Law School mourns the passing of Milton Handler, our beloved colleague for the past 75 years. Dean David W. Leebron
      