
        SOPHER-Morris. Passed away on November 11, 1998. The American Friends of Migdal Ohr deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend, Morris Sopher. He was a man whose sterling qualities, generosity of spirit, and profound compassion endeared him to all. He was a Board member, avid supporter of Migdal Ohr, and together with his dear wife, Marilyn, and children, Lisa, Barbara and Jonathan, who shared his noble journey of magnificent accomplishments, have provided the less fortunate and underprivileged youth of Israel with immeasurable opportunities. His irrepressible spirit, genuine love of humanity and unparalleled generosity are a blessed legacy. May the Al-mighty comfort the family in their time of deep bereavement and may they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Yitzchok Dovid Grossman, Founder and Dean, Migdal Ohr Chief Rabbi, Migdal Ha'emek Robert L. Fromer, Chairman of the Executive Committee Max Thurm, President Shalom Siegfried, Executive Director
        SOPHER-Morris. Young Israel Ohab Zedek's entire membership, officers and directors mourn the loss of our foremost benefactor. Our synagogue building is named for Morris and Marilyn Sopher. They have been stalwart supporters of so many Jewish causes and charities. May his beloved wife Marilyn, their children and grandchildren be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Nachman Cohen, Rabbi Samuel Susswein, President
        SOPHER-Morris. S/A/R Academy expresses its profound sorrow at the passing of our benefactor and friend. Heartfelt condolences are offered to his loving and dedicated wife, Marilyn, long time Trustee, his caring children Barbara ('80) and Danny Harelick, Jonathan ('82) and Aviva, and Lisa ('91). May the entire family find solace in his memory and be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President
        SOPHER-Morris. Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of our member, Morris Sopher. We extend profound condolences to his wife, Marilyn, his daughter and son-in-law, Barbara Sopher and Daniel Harelick, to his children, grandchildren and the entire family. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President
        SOPHER-Morris. A man of immense generosity, kindness and integrity. Marilyn, Barbara and Danny, Jonathan and Aviva, Lisa, Ehud, Ayden, Ittai, and Yarden, your loss is a loss to all of Klal Yisrael. May you continue in Morris' righteous path. Sharon, Jerry, and Daniel Elana, Daniel and Pinchas
      