
        CAHILL-Anthony B., Sr., age 68, of Bonita Springs, Florida and Nantucket, Massachusetts, died on November 18, 1998 after an extended illness. Born in New York City on November 19, 1929, son of the late Russell B. Cahill and Estelle Forhan Cahill. He was the husband of Karen Butler Cahill. He grew up in Pelham Manor and Mamaroneck, New York and was educated at Iona Prep School and attended Iona College in New Rochelle, New York. He resided in various towns in Westchester County, namely White Plains, Bedford Village, Chappaqua, and Somers until he retired in 1990 moving to Florida and continuing to summer on Nantucket Island, Massachusetts as he had since the 1960s. Mr. Cahill worked in the heavy construction industry in the 1940's during summers while a student and after serving in the U.S. Marines from 1950-1952 continued in the construction business throughout his business life, primarily road construction including public projects such as the New York State Thruway built in the early 1950s where he was deeply involved in the construction of the Tappan Zee Bridge and Westchester Toll Plaza in Tarrytown, New York. Having the foresight to follow the major trend of the development of the upper portion of Westchester County, New York in the late 1950s into the 60s, Mr. Cahill, in 1963, founded Cahill Paving Corporation originally in Katonah, New York, soon after moving his company to Bedford Hills, New York where it remained for many years. Seeing the value of an asphalt plant in northern Westchester and Putnam Counties he started Putnam Asphalt Corporation in Patterson, New York as well as Harlem Valley Materials, Inc in Wassaic, New York, all doing business throughout Westchester, Putnam and Dutchess Counties. He continued to successfully run his businesses until his retirement in 1990. Mr. Cahill served for 15 years as a Trustee for the Pension Fund of the Local 137 Operating Engineers Union. He was a member of Sankaty Head Golf Club, Nantucket, Massachusetts and Bonita Bay Golf Club in Bonita Springs, Florida; an officer in the Westchester County Contractor's Association, a member of the Westchester Bituminous Asphalt Association. In addition to his wife, Karen, he is survived by three sons, Richard F. Cahill of San Diego, California, Anthony B. Cahill, Jr. of Ridgefield, Connecticut and James E. Cahill of Nantucket, Massachusetts, and his brother, John J. Cahill of Vero Beach, Florida. He is also suvived by five grandchildren, his former wife Valerie, many nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews, two stepdaughters and two stepsons. Friends may call on the Cahill family on Friday, November 20, 1998 from 5-9:00PM at the Hodges Funeral Chapel, 3520 Tamiami Trail North. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Saturday, November 21, 1998 at 9:00AM at Saint John the Evangelist Catholic Church. Interment will be in Prospect Hill Cemetery in Nantucket, Mass. Mr. Cahill is a parishioner of St. Mary's (Our Lady of the Isle) Church in Nantucket, Massachusetts and St. John's the Evangelist Church in Naples, Florida. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Sankaty Head Caddy Camp Fund of Sankaty Head Golf Club, Nantucket, Massachesetts which helps young boys earn scholarships for college.
      