
        HANDLER-Prof. Milton. Beloved husband of the late Miriam Adler Handler. Devoted father of Carole. Loving grandfather of Alisa and Ilana Schoenbach, and dear uncle. Service Thursday, 11AM at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th St and Madison Ave, NYC.
        HANDLER-Milton. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in mourning the passing of Milton Handler, beloved husband of our longtime Board of Trustees member, the late Miriam A. Handler. Professor Handler and his wife were loyal and generous supporters of our institution which included their gift to name the Milton and Miriam Handler Stroke Center Waiting Room at the Singer Division. To Mr. Handler's daughter, Carol E. Handler, his two grandchildren, and his entire family, we offer our profound condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman of the Board, Continuum Health Partners, Inc. Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President & CEO, Beth Israel Medical Center James S. Breslaw, M.D. President of the Medical Board
        HANDLER-Prof. Milton. Yeshiva University and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law mourn the passing of a dear friend, a distinguished jurist and advocate of the State of Israel who was a member and honorary member of the CSL Board of Directors from its earliest days. He and his late wife, Miriam, were CSL Fellows through Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays, and Handler. We extend our heartfelt condolences to daughter, Carole; grandchildren; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Earle I. Mack, Chairman CSL Board of Directors
        HANDLER-Milton. Columbia Law School mourns the loss of our beloved colleague, Milton Handler. A brilliant scholar, gifted teacher, devoted friend, and tireless advisor to The Law School for nearly 70 years, he was one of the most important legal thinkers and practicing lawyers in this century. The leading authority in antitrust law, his wisdom and guidance live on through the thousands of Columbia Law School students he inspired. His distinguished legal career and devotion to charitable causes exemplified the use of law as an instrument of social progress and the improvement of our lives. Dean David W. Leebron
        HANDLER-Milton. The Trustees and Staff of The Jewish Museum mourn the loss of Milton Handler, a longtime friend and benefactor & husband of the late Life Trustee, Miriam Handler. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Milton's daughter, Carole, and the entire family. Joan Rosenbaum, Director Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President
        HANDLER-Milton. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, colleague and teacher, Milton. He taught enquiry, loyalty and love in his work at Columbia University, Kaye Scholer and the Hebrew University. Stanley Bogen Harvey Krueger Lawrence Newman
        HANDLER-Prof. Milton. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President
        HANDLER-Prof. Milton. The Board of Directors, the shareholders of 625 Park Avenue, the staff and Wallack Management mourn the loss of long-time resident and valued Board member, Professor Handler. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his family.
      