
        SILBER-Robert, M.D., age 67, on November 3, 1998 in Durham, North Carolina. Formerly of New York City. Beloved husband of Barbara Kamhi Silber. Devoted father of Andrea (Phillip) Dickey, Jeffrey (Linda) Silber, Laura (Dusan Knezevic) Silber, and Michael Silber. Caring stepfather of Jay (Cathy) Kamhi, Katherine (Tony Coghlan) Kamhi & Adam Kamhi. Proud grandfather of Jack, Olivia, Aaron, & Mila & step grandfather of Emma, Madeleine, and Ivy. Cherished brother of the late Erich Silber and brother-in-law of Rita Silber. Dear uncle of Denise Silber, Mark (Alexandra Nicholson) Silber, and Ken Silber. Dedicated physician, researcher, professor and friend. A memorial service will be held Thursday, November 5th at 11 AM, at Howerton-Bryan Funeral Home in Durham, NC. A memorial service will also be held on Sunday, November 8 at 1:15 PM at The Riverside Chapel, 76th St & Amsterdam Ave., New York City. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Department of Hematology, Duke University Medical Center or the Division of Hematology, New York University School of Medicine.
        SILBER-Robert, M.D. We mourn the passing of our colleague and friend, Dr. Robert Silber, professor of Medicine and former Chief of our Division of Hematology. He was a foremost hematologist who was a highly dedicated, devoted and compassionate physican. He was a leading, very imaginative and productive investigator who combined cutting edge cell biology with diseases of the hematopoietic system. Dr. Silber was greatly respected and loved by all his patients and professional colleagues. He served our institution with loyalty and devotion for many years. During his tenure with us and at Duke University School of Medicine he was beloved by his students and fellows for his total commitment to their education and their personal well being. We extend our deep sympathy to his beloved spouse, Barbara and to his children, Dr. Andrea, an alumnus of our school and Jeffrey, Laura, Michael and his entire family. Robert M. Glickman, M.D., Dean, New York University School of Medicine Saul J. Farber, M.D., MACP The Frederick H. King, Professor and Chairman, Department of Medicine and Director, Medical Services, Bellevue and Tisch Hospitals
      