
        NAGLE-Sister Mary Robert. On November 9, 1998. Member of the Sisters of Charity, Mount Saint Vincent, Bronx, New York. Former Director of Saint Vincent's Hospital School of Nursing, 19671991. Primary Care Nurse, Deptartment of Community Medicine, of Saint Vincent's Hospital 19911998. Beloved daughter of the late Robert and Marion. Loving sister of Richard (Madelyn). Dear aunt of Richard, Jr. & Yvette. Reposing Redden Funeral Home, 325 West 14 Street, NYC Wednesday, 4-9PM and Thursday, 2-9PM in the Saint Elizabeth Ann Seton Chapel of Saint Vincent's Hospital. Please enter through 158 West 12 Street, New York. Mass of Christian Burial Friday, 10AM in the Hospital Chapel. Interment Saint Joseph's Cemetery, Yonkers, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Development Fund, Sisters of Charity, Mount Saint Vincent, Bronx, New York 10471.
        NAGLE-Sister Mary Robert, S.C. The Board of Trustees, Sisters of Charity, Hospital Auxiliary, Administration, and the entire family of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center mourn the loss of our beloved friend and colleague, Sister Mary Robert, a cherished member of the Hospital Staff for over 30 years. Sister Mary Robert was the Director of Saint Vincent School of Nursing for 24 years until 1991, and then continued her mission of charity by providing nursing care to patients at a shelter for homeless men until her death. Sister was an active leader of many regional and national nursing educational organizations. She received numerous awards culminating in The Hospital's Saint Elizabeth Seton Award. She was known for her outstanding intellectual ability, leadership qualities, and her commitment to her family, The Sisters of Charity and Saint Vincent Hospital and Medical Center. With great sadness, we extend our prayers and condolences to The Sisters of Charity, her brother, Richard Nagel, her sister-in-law, Madelyn, and their family. Thomas A. Coleman, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Karl P. Adler, MD, President and Chief Executive Officer of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center
        NAGLE-Sr. Mary Robert. The faculty, students and staff of the School of Nursing of St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York mourn the passing of Sr. Mary Robert Nagel, beloved Director of the School of Nursing from 1967 through 1991. Friend, counselor, teacher and leader, Sr. Mary Robert leaves a legacy of warmth, wisdom, caring and commitment to all who knew her and worked with her. She will be long remembered and deeply missed. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to all the Sisters of Charity and to Sr. Robert's family. Grace Marschall, Assistant Dir. School of Nursing
        NAGLE-Sister Mary Robert. The Little Sisters of the Assumption Family Health Service mourns the passing of Sr. Mary Robert Nagle, a long-standing member of the Board of Directors. Her commitment, expertise and wry good humor will be greatly missed.
      