
        JOHNSON-Mary Ann. Resident of Summerlin, Las Vegas, NV, at home on November 3, 1998, after a brief illness. Wake Friday, November 6, 8:30 P.M. at St. Elizabeth Ann Seton Catholic Church, in Summerlin, Las Vegas, NV. Funeral Mass of Christian burial, Saturday, November 7, 12:30 P.M. Born in Taunton, MA., Mary Ann Webster September 20, 1943, she is survived by her husband of 30 years, Andrew, four sons: Andrew, Peter, Cyrus and David; a stepson, Rupert Harris Johnson III, in addition, two brothers and six sisters: David and Robert Webster, Helen Oaks, Madlyn Kobryn, Carol Slattery, Joan Donelan, Patricia Webster, Audrey DeStephan and numerous nieces and nephews. She lived and worked in the New York area for 20 years where she met and married her husband, Andrew Rupert Johnson, retired founder and manager of the Franklin Templeton Municipal Fund Department, the largest of its kind in the world. Moved to California in 1975 to raise a family. She is a Lady Commander With Star in the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem, a Papal Order of the Catholic Church, having made a Pilgrimage to Israel and Jerusalem in 1989. For the past 8 years in May, she traveled to Lourdes, France, with the Sovereign Order of the Knights of Malta, as a volunteer serving the sick and poor. She had a life long love affair with golf and children. Her great enthusiasm, good humor, kindness, extensive community service and charities earned her many tributes and awards which she always minimized. Living a life ever infused with love, Mary Ann brought a special light with her wherever she went that shone through as Ladies Captain at Presidio Golf Club, first and only Woman Soccer Commissioner of the Hillsborough Soccer Association, CCD teacher for 15 years, PTA president, school secretary and teacher of handicapped and non-English speaking children, charter member of the Serra Club of Las Vegas West, life member of the United States Navy League, Sun City and TPC Ladies Golf Association, Legatus International, Catholics for Truth and Justice and numerous others. Contributions in lieu of flowers are suggested for Catholic Charities of Las Vegas, San Francisco or NY
      