
        KOREIN-Sarah. On October 29, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Isidor. Loving mother of Julius and Elysabeth. Dear sister of Esther. Adoring grandmother of James, Jonathan, Beth and Peter; nine great-grandchildren. Private services. No flowers, please. The family of Sarah Korein wishes to thank you for all your good wishes. If you wish to make a contribution in her memory, donations may be sent to: Appeal of Conscience Foundation, 119 West 57 St, NYC 10019; Florida Stage, 262 South Ocean Blvd, Manalapan, FL 33462; Central Park Conservancy, NYC.
        KOREIN-Sarah. Yeshiva University mourns the loss of a respected philanthropist and businesswoman and cherished friend. Born to a distinguished Jerusalem family of scholars and pietists, she began as a teacher of Bible and became a ''woman of valor'' in the Biblical sense: having reached the pinnacle of success in real estate, this extraordinarily understated and dignified woman supported worthy causes in a grand manner without ever boasting of her success or of her largess. A munificent Benefactor of YU, she established the Sarah Korein Scholarship Fund which supports undergraduate and graduate students destined to play leadership roles in business, law, medicine, science, education, the rabbinate, and the Jewish community at large. They join us in extending heartfelt condolences to family members and friends. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        KOREIN-Sarah. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of the hospital's parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and benefactress, Sarah Korein. To her children, Julius and Elysabeth, the entire Korein family, and all of her loved ones, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees, CHP and BIMC Robert G. Newman, M.D., President and CEO, CHP Matthew E. Fink, MD, Pres, CEO, BIMC
        KOREIN-Sarah. We are saddened by the loss of Sarah Korein, humanitarian and supporter of human rights, religious freedom and tolerance. Our deepest sympathy to her children, Elysabeth Kleinhans and Dr. Julius Korein and the entire family. Appeal of Conscience Foundation Rabbi Arthur Schneier, President Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. Dr. David H.C. Read Vice Presidents
        KOREIN-Sarah. Park East Synagogue mourns the death of our benefactor, Sarah Korein, a woman of valor, wisdom and kindness. To her daughter Elysabeth Kleinhans, her son Dr. Julius Korein, sister Esther Kessler and the entire family, our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        KOREIN-Sarah. My dear friend Sarah, you did all the good you could, by all the means you could, in all the ways you could, in all the places you could, at all the times you could, to all the people you could, as long as you could. My memories will keep you alive in my heart forever. Rest in peace. Rick Weber
        KOREIN-Sarah. I will miss my friend of more than half a century. A brilliant, intuitive, accomplished, shrewd yet warm individual, she brought a new level of respect to women in the real estate industry. Gladys S. Mills, Gotham Realty
      