
        WENIG-Jerome. Beloved husband of Dolores. Loving father of Debra and Howard Ross and Howard and Tracy Wenig. Cherished grandfather of Leslie, Amy, and Andrew Ross and Laura and Rachel Wenig. Service today, 10:00 AM at Beth El Synagogue, North Avenue and Northfield Road, New Rochelle, New York.
        WENIG-Jerome B. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Jerome B. Wenig. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Dolores, his children, Debbie and Howard and to all his grandchildren. Len Shendell, President Judith Tarter, Secretary
        WENIG-Jerome. The Board of Governors and Members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Wednesday November 4, 1998. He will be missed. Services will be held Thursday, November 5th at 10 A.M. at Beth El Temple, New Rochelle, New York. Melvin Michaelson, President
        WENIG-Jerry. Always bigger than life, always a joy to have around us. Always a true and supportive friend to count on; always, you will be remembered from the first snowy day our families met forty years ago. Always you will be in our hearts. Dorothy, Bert, and the Ostrau children
        WENIG-Jerome. We mourn the loss of our dear friend. Our heartfelt sumpathies are extended to his beloved wife Dolores and his loving family and friends. His warm and cheerful nature will be missed by all who loved him. Bunny and Bert Podell
        WENIG-Jerome. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our loving brother-in-law & uncle. Thank you for always being there for all of us. We are going to miss you. Love Renee, Cheryl, Bruce & Family
        WENIG-Jerome B. On November 4th. You were a very special person to all of us. You will be greatly missed and remain in our hearts forever. Love the entire staff of Wenig
        WENIG-Jerome. Dear Jerry, we will miss you. Our sincere condolences to Dolores and her children. Love, Mitzi and Fred
        WENIG-Jerry. Dearest and most special friend we thank you for all our wonderful times together. Your courage, humor and love of life will never be forgotten. We pray that Dolores, Debbie and Howard and all their families will have their grief soon fade into many happy memories. You left us too soon. We love you. Carole and Al Schragis
      