
        WOLLHEIM-Norbert. On November 1, 1998. Husband of Charlotte, father of Ruth Wachter and Peter Wollheim, grandfather of Toby Wachter, stepfather of Peter and Jeffrey Sprung. Passed away surrounded by family and the respect and love of Holocaust survivors around the world, including those he helped save from death and those on whose behalf he obtained some measure of justice and compensation. Memorial service at Sinai Chapels, 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, at noon, Tuesday 3 November. Interment at Mt. Carmel Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, donations in his name may be made to the American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors Education Fund, 122 West 30 Street, New York, NY 10001.
        WOLLHEIM-Norbert. The World Federation of the Bergen-Belsen Survivors mourn the passing of its beloved lifelong leader, a loyal and good nobel friend of supreme human qualities. His boundless dedication to the cause of remembrance of the Holocaust and all its implications and his unfailing efforts for the well being of the survivors has been a source of inspiration to all who knew him. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, Charlotte, his children, Ruth and Peter and grandson Toby and Peter and Jeffrey Sprung and the Billauer family. Lilly and Sam Bloch Malka and Mannes Schwarz Ellis and Israel Krakowski Max Silbernick Bela and Isadore Eisenberg Jean and Menachem Rosensaft
        WOLLHEIM-Norbert. We deeply mourn the loss of our close friend and respected fellow Holocaust survivor. Norbert was a founding leader of our organization and of the Holocaust survivor community at large. A man selflessly dedicated to the causes of the survivors, he shall be greatly missed. We extend our expression of sympathy to his devoted wife, Charlotte, his children Peter Wollheim and Ruth Wachter, his grandson Toby Wachter, and his stepsons Jeffrey and Peter Sprung. American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors Benjamin Meed, President Sam Bloch, Sr. Vice President Roman Kent, Chairman Max Liebmann, Treasurer
        WOLLHEIM-Norbert. The Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany records with great sorrow the passing of Norbert Wollheim, an outstanding leader of the Holocaust survivor community who over the years made a major contribution to the Claims Conference efforts to obtain compensation for survivors as a Vice President and a negotiator with the German government. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire bereaved family. Dr. Israel Miller, President Saul Kagan, Executive V.P.
        WOLLHEIM-Norbert. The staff of the Jewish Labor Committee are deeply saddened at the death of Norbert, a very special person, and husband of our dear friend and colleague Charlotte. Our heartfelt condolences to Charlotte, son Peter Wollheim, daughter Ruth, grandson Toby, Peter and Jeff Sprung, and entire family. Avram B. Lyon, Exec Director
        WOLLHEIM-Norbert. The Officers, Board of Trustees and congregation of Fresh Meadows Jewish Center mourn the loss of its past president and elder statesman, Norbert Wollheim. A man of wisdom and peace. Mrs. Anita Bernstein, President Dr. Zachary Levine, Exec. V.P.
        WOLLHEIM-Norbert. We lost our lifelong friend and our hero of the Holocaust. The Kimmelstiel family
      