
        DUGGAN-Stephen Pierce, Jr. Died peacefully on November 8, 1998 in Cornwall-on-Hudson, NY. Husband of the late Beatrice Abbott Duggan, brother of the late Mary Hodder, Laurence Duggan, and Sally Duggan Webb, father of Stephen Pierce Duggan III, Marianne Bell O'Brien, Peter M. Duggan, Hayden A. Duggan, and the late Betsey Duggan, grandfather of twelve grandchildren, six greatgrandchildren and uncle of nieces and nephews, all of whom loved and admired him. Mr. Duggan was a founder and the first chairman of Natural Resources Defense Council, a former trustee of the Institute of International Education, which was founded by his father, and a member of the boards of Scenic Hudson, Phillips Exeter Academy, Vassar College, New School for Social Research, Walter Reade Foundation and Collegiate School. He also served as Chairman of the Board of The Dalton and The Storm King Schools, and was a member of the Century Association. He was a Senior Partner at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett until his retirement. A private family service will take place on Friday. Information regarding a future memorial service will be announced. Memorial contributions may be made to the Stephen P. Duggan Fund at Natural Resources Defense Council, 40 W. 20th St., NY NY 10011.
        DUGGAN-Stephen P. The Natural Resources Defense Council mourns the passing of its Founding Chair, Stephen P. Duggan. A partner at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett and a noted litigator, Mr. Duggan was also a devoted environmentalist who brought his tremendous abilities as a leader of people and a man of influence to the founding and growth of our organization. During the late 1960's, through his participation in the fight against the proposed Storm King Power Plant on the Hudson River, Mr. Duggan saw the need for a permanent, national environmental organization-a watchdog capable of using the power of law and scientific research to defend against assaults on the natural world. At not inconsiderable personal and professional risk, he joined with several colleagues, as well as his wife Smokey, to establish NRDC in 1970. Mr. Duggan, NRDC's Chair throughout its first decade, was indispensable to its growing strength. Without his courage, NRDC could not have been created. Without his enormous experience in leading charitable organizations, it could not have flourished. From the start, he set exacting standards and demanded professionalism and effectiveness. He also urged NRDC to broaden its environmental vision to address the greatest threats wherever they lay: not only the natural resource protection that was his first interest, but also public health, nuclear weapons reduction and many other fields. It was he and his wife who, together, launched NRDC into international environmental work. Under Mr. Duggan's leadeship, NRDC took on such diverse projects as, he said in the five year report, ''the far-flung wilderness areas of Alaska, the deteriorating cores of our cities, the health of steel workers, and the preservation of golden eagles.'' With the death of Stephen Duggan, the environmental movement has lost a great champion. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family.
        DUGGAN-Stephen P. The Partners of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett are deeply saddened by the passing of their retired partner, Stephen P. Duggan. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. The Partners of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
      