
        KISSINGER-Paula Stern. Age 97, on November 15, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Louis Kissinger. She is survived by her two sons Henry A. and Walter B., six grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. The family requests in lieu of flowers that donations be sent in her memory to the ColumbiaPresbyterian Hospital, Development Office, 622 West 168th St., New York, NY 10032-3784.
        KISSINGER-Paula. The Board of Directors, Residents and Staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the death of Paula Kissinger, a very special lady and cherished member of The Hebrew Home's extended family. Mrs. Kissinger's warmth, kindness and vivacious spirit will be missed by all of us who came to know her. We extend our sincere sympathy to her sons Henry and Walter, her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. We hope that your loving memories of times together will ease your sorrow during these days of sadness. Milton A. Gilbert, Pres. Bernard Goldberg, Chairman, Board of Directors Jacob Reingold, Vice Chairman, Board of Directors Daniel A. Reingold, Executive Vice Pres.
        KISSINGER-Paula Stern. We extend heartfelt condolences to Harry A. and Walter B. Kissinger on the loss of their beloved mother, Paula. The Kissinger family involved with the hospital dates back to the Founding Committee established in Germany, and that commitment has continued until today. May the entire family have warm and loving memories of a very special, caring and righteous individual. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, President Stuart Tauber, Executive Director
        KISSINGER-Paula Stern. The Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns the death of Paula Stern Kissinger beloved mother of Dr. Henry A. Kissinger, a leader in our ecumenical work on behalf of religious freedom, human rights and tolerance. Our deepest sympathy to him, his dear wife Nancy, brother Walter B. Kissinger, and the entire family. Appeal of Conscience Foundation Rabbi Arthur Schneier, President Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. Dr. David H.C. Read Vice Presidents
      