
        FOGLE-Elston Edgar. Died on November 9, 1998, two days following his 91st birthday in Ocean Ridge, FL. Born in Barnesville, Ohio, he was the eldest son of Rev. Charles E. Fogle and Emma Edgar Fogle. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, he graduated Magna Cum Laude from Marietta College in Marietta, Ohio in 1930 and immediately joined the Union Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Company as a research fellow at Pittsburgh's Mellon Institute. Beginning in 1940, he was promoted through District, Regional and National Sales manager positions. On loan from Union Carbide during the Korean War, he served for a year as Director of the Rubber, Chemicals, Drugs and Fuel Division of the U.S. Office of Price Stabilization in Washington, D.C. In 1957, he was promoted to President of Union Carbide Chemicals Company and ultimately to Vice President of Union Carbide Corporation, a position he held until his retirement in 1968. With Doris (Clendenin) Fogle, his wife of 52 years who passed away in 1987, he was a long-time resident of Rowayton and Darien, Connecticut. For many years, he served as a Deacon of the United Church of Rowayton and was President of the Wee Burn Country Club from 1958-61. In 1961, he was awarded an Honorary Doctorate from his alma mater Marietta College. Since 1968, he has resided in Ocean Ridge, Florida, where he served as a Governor of the Ocean Club and President of The Little Club from 1979-81. He is survived by his beloved wife of ten years, Lois (Sundberg) Fogle of Ocean Ridge, his brothers French R. Fogle and William Fogle, his sister Faye Casey, his sons and daughters-in-law Robert C. and Patricia Fogle of Woodbury, Connecticut and John E. and Jean C. Fogle of Marblehead, Massachusetts, his four grandchildren Gregory E. Fogle of Albany, New York, Robert M. Fogle of Georgetown, Massachusetts, Lauren F. Fogle of Washington, D.C. and Jenna C. Fogle of Marblehead, and his great-granddaughter Charlotte Fogle of Albany. Local funeral services will be private, but an open memorial service to celebrate his wonderful life will be held in Rowayton, CT. at a later date. For additional information, contact Lorne & Sons Funeral Home, Delray Beach, FL.
      