
        DRILLICK-Blanche Roth. Died in Hackensack, New Jersey, on Thursday, December 3, 1998 of ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease) Blanche, ''Blimi,'' was born, October 9, 1923, in Brooklyn, NY, the youngest of six children of Israel and Hinda Roth. A precocious observer of people and customs, she wrote poetry from childhood onwards. She grew up in a warm family environment, surrounded by her brothers Jack, Bill, Irving and Nat, her sister Reggie and many friends and relatives. The strong memories of these early years are the foundation of the stories she wrote about growing up on 46th Street. She attended PS 169 in Boro Park, Pershing Junior High School and then graduated Summa Cum Laude from New Utrecht High School. Blanche attended Brooklyn College, graduating with a degree in psychology. During WW II, while brothers Nat, Bill & Irving served in the Army, she worked at the Norden Bombsight factory. After the war, she served as a social worker for the American National Red Cross, and then as a field organizer for the Pioneer Women. She married Jacob Drillick in 1948, and was instrumental in the success of Jack's companies, serving as business manager. She lived in London, England during the 1970's and traveled to Israel, Europe, Hawaii and Australia. Blanche was the Coordinator of the Hackensack Municipal Volunteer Corps from 1991 to 1993. She received several awards for this work, including the United to Serve America Diamond Award, and was the subject of an article in the NY Times. In recent years Blanche pursued her lifelong love of writing and painting by attending many shows, workshops and classes. Her work is being published by the family: here is a thought from one of her poems: ''Life is truly beautiful, if one does not forget, To welcome joy unabashed, if one continues, To greet with wonder each dawn.'' She is survived by her children Ira, Anne and David: Ira's wife Barbara and son Benjamin; her brothers Nat and Irving, their wives Harriet and Shirley; her sisters-in-law Anne and Claire, and many loving nieces and nephews. Services are Sunday, Dec 6 1998. Arrival at 10:30 AM at Gutterman-Musicant, 402 Park St., Hackensack, 201-489-3800. Donations to Kessler Institute-ALS Program, 1199 Pleasant Valley Way West. Orange NJ 07052.
      