
        DRIMAL-Charles E. CLU, ChFC, MSFS. Insurance Industry leader and General Agent emeritus of The Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company died Saturday, December 5, 1998 at Christ Hospital in Cincinnati, Ohio while visiting his daughter. At his side, as always, was his beloved wife Juanita and family. Mr. Drimal was born October 22, 1918 in Astoria, was a long time resident of Valley Stream, NY and was currently residing in Manhattan. He graduated from New York University in 1949, and received his Masters of Financial Services from The American College in 1980. In his career he served as a Captain in the U.S. Army Corps 1942-1946, as President of the NY Society of Financial Service Professionals, President of NY Chapter of GAMA International, the Penn Mutual Agency Association, Chairman of the New York Round Table and a founder of the New York Center of Financial Services. Charles E. Drimal was a business and community leader extraordinaire helping over 100 Insurance Professionals establish their careers. The Charles E. Drimal, CLU, ChFC Bridgebuilder Award was established in his honor. He was a leader by example committed to professionalism, ethics, continuing education and helping thousands of families prepare for a lifetime of financial well being. Mr. Drimal was constantly recognized for his guidance and charitable service to The Holy Trinity Episcopal Church of Long Island, the Variety Boys and Girls Club of Astoria, The National Hypertension Association, Inc. and The American College. He is survived by his wife Juanita and three loving children; Lynn Lippert and son-in-law Wayne of Cincinnati, Ohio, Charles E. Jr. and daughter-in-law Sandra, Craig and daughter-in-law Arlene both of Connecticut and thirteen grandchildren. Visitation will be Tuesday evening December 8th from 5:00 to 8:00 PM at Holy Trinity Episcopal Church, Brooklyn Avenue and Seventh Street, Valley Stream, Long Island. A Memorial Service will be held Wednesday, December 9, 1998 from 7:00 to 8:00 PM at Holy Trinity Episcopal Church. In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions be made to any of the above mentioned charitable organizations.
      