
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Samuel Abraham. Beloved mother of Judy Steinberg, S. Daniel Abraham, Jeremiah Abraham and the late Roy Abraham. Matriarch of an exceptional family, who taught by example. She personified the true ''Aishes Chayil'' dedicated to her children, her grandchildren and her great grandchildren. She was involved in many charitable efforts in a most dignified and loving manner. A friend of over half a century - her life was truly a blessing and she will be missed by her family and all who knew her. Dr. Bernard Lander President Touro College
        ABRAHAM-Stella/d. Mother of S. Daniel Abraham, who lived a full life of 102 years, during which she brought joy to all who knew her and passed down the wisdom of our ancestors: ''Seek Peace and Pursue It.'' The Board and Staff of Israel Policy Forum Jack Bendheim President Michael W. Sonnenfeldt, Chair Ted Mann, Executive Committee Chair Jonathan Jacoby, Executive VP Thomas Smerling, Washington Dir Debra Wasserman, Managing Dir
        ''The deeds of the parents are an example to the children.'' Through his generosity of spirit and philanthropy, Dan Abraham has been an example to the entire Jewish community. We share his sorrow at the passing of his mother and extend condolences to him and the entire family. The Jewish Orthodox Feminist Alliance Blu Greenberg, President Belda Lindenbaum, Vice-Pres. Batsheva Marcus, Vice-Pres Carol Newman, Vice-Pres.
        The officers and board of directors of KerenOr, Jerusalem Center for MultiHandicapped Blind Children extend their heartfelt condolences to Judy (and Dr. Edward L.) Steinberg on the death of her beloved mother. May her children, grandchildren, and great grandchildren find comfort in her legacy of good deeds that continues to touch so many. Dr. Albert Hornblas, President Sheila E. Stein, Exec. Director
        The Friends of Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, deeply mourn the passing of Stella Abraham, beloved mother of our esteemed Board Member and colleague, S. Daniel Abraham. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire family. Romie Shapiro, Chairman of the Board Harry Bauer, President Eillene Leistner, Executive V.P.
      