
        LIND-John K., Dr., Columbia University, Professor of Dentistry, died at home on Wednesday, December 23rd after a long battle with heart disease and lung cancer. Dr. Lind was born in New York on April 18, 1931, the son of Hazel Taylor and Thomas Lind. He was a graduate of St. John's College and Columbia University, School of Dental and Oral Surgery. His career in dentistry spanned forty years, with time divided between teaching and a private practice at 501 Madison Avenue in partnership with Drs. Boaz Shattan and Michael Shulman. At Columbia he rose to the rank of clinical full professor. His special interest was the diagnosis and treatment of systemic diseases with manifestations in the oral cavity including oral cancer. Dr. Lind's private practice included an eclectic mix of patients from all over the world and from every walk of life. Notable among his patients were Greta Garbo, Errol Flynn, Arthur Miller, Marilyn Monroe and General Carlos Romulo of the Philippines. He was a long time resident of New Rochelle, N.Y. and New York City, and a member of many fraternal, charitable, scientific and social organizations: President of Sigma Tau Alpha, Skull and Circle, Anucron Kappa Upsilon, Grandmaster of PSI Omega, Sigma Psi Scientific Society, P.E.A.C.E. Foundation Board of Governors, and 4-term President of Bonnie Briar Country Club in Larchmont, New York. His beloved companion, Deena Wolfson, Survives Dr. Lind. Other survivors include a son and daughter from his marriage to Violet Lind, a resident of New Rochelle, NY: John K. Lind, Jr. of Cleveland, Ohio; and Patricia Lind Migliore of Fairfield, CT; and 4 grandsons: John K. Lind III, Michael Thomas Lind, Christopher Ryan Lind, and Patrick Taylor Migliore. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street on Sunday, December 27th from 3 to 7 PM. A mass of Christian burial will be held on Monday at 11 AM at St. Ignatius Loyola Church on Park Avenue. Donations in his name may be made to P.E.A.C.E. Foundation, C/O William Wood, S.J., Jesuit Seminary & Mission Bureau, 39 East 83 Street, New York, New York.
      