
        CUSHMAN-John C., Jr. John Clydesdale Cushman, Jr., died November 30, 1998, in Escondido, CA. He lived in Lake San Marcos, CA, since 1981, and prior to that in Montclair, NJ, since age two. A 12th generation Mayflower descendant, Mr. Cushman was born in NYC on September 24, 1912. He graduated from Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, MA, in 1932, and Amherst College, Amherst, MA, in 1936. He attended Fordham Law School. Mr. Cushman joined Cushman & Wakefield, Inc., in NYC in 1936, the commercial real estate brokerage and management firm founded in 1917 by his father and uncle, respectively, John C. Cushman and Bernard Wakefield. After serving as Executive Vice President, Secretary and Director, he left in 1964 to form J.C. Cushman, Inc. Until his death, Mr. Cushman served as President and Director of D.A. Cushman Realty Corporation, a real estate ownership and management firm founded in 1830 in the Chelsea/23rd Street area of NYC by his great-grandfather, Don Alozo Cushman. Stationed in Washington, DC, Mr. Cushman served as Lt. Commander in the U.S. Navy during World War II. In NYC, he was a Director of Windsor Life Insurance Company, Director of 9th Federal Savings & Loan Association, Director and President of the Lexington First Avenue Association, Governor and Secretary of The Real Estate Board of New York, and Governor of the Army Navy Club of New York. Memberships in NYC included: the University Club, International Association of Building Owners & Managers (BOMA), The Institute of Real Estate Management (IREM) with a Certified Property Manager (CPM) designation, International Real Estate Federation, National Association of Real Estate Boards, East Side Association, and the American Arbitration Association. Other memberships included: Alpha Delta Phi, Rock Spring Club (West Orange, NJ), Secretary and Governor of Deer Lake Club (Boonton, NJ), United Fund of West Essex County (NJ), Visiting Nurse Association (San Diego), and Lake San Marcos Country Club and Lake San Marcos Yacht Club (both in Lake San Marcos, CA). Survivors include sister Anne Cushman Reynolds of Milwaukie, OR; brother Robert William Cushman of Sarasota, FL; his wife of 59 years, Florence Blauvelt Cushman of Lake San Marcos, CA; twin sons John Clydesdale Cushman III of Pasadena, CA and Louis Blauvelt Cushman of Houston, TX, and son David Goodrich Cushman of Glendale, CA; and eight grandsons, two granddaughters and one greatgrandson. Donations may be made to ''The San Marcos High School Scholarship Fund,'' in memory of Jack Cushman, for a deserving member of the golf team. Send to: c/o Bobbi Mathies, Cushman Realty Corporation, 601 S. Figueroa St, 47th flr, Los Angeles, CA 90017.
      