
        ARRON-Judith. The Philharmonic Symphony-Society of New York, Inc. deeply mourns the passing of Judith Arron, a courageous woman, a distinguished colleague, and a truly exemplary leader in the arts. As Artistic and Executive Director, she led Carnegie Hall through an extraordinary period of growth and has left an indelible stamp on its future. The New York Philharmonic and Carnegie Hall have been inextricably linked in their great past, and both share this tremendous loss for the world's classical music community. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband Ronald, her sons Edward and Joseph, and to her entire family. Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Deborah Borda Executive Director
        ARRON-Judith. The Board of Trustees of WNYC and Laura Walker, President and CEO of WNYC Radio join in expressing our profound loss at the passing of Judith Arron. Her extraordinary sense of collaboration offered us the opportunity to forge a cultural partnership with Carnegie Hall, extending their tradition of world class musical events beyond the walls of that great landmark to listening audiences throughout the New York region. Her dedication to distinctive musical entertainment, her vision of Carnegie Hall as a wellspring of creativity that should be shared by many, and her imaginative outreach programs to professionals-both young and old alike-inspired all those she touched. We will miss her uncommon talents as a creator, administrator and friend.
        ARRON-Judith. The entire Juilliard community deeply mourns the death of Judith Arron. A person of enormous grace, intelligence, creativity and vision, she was greatly admired and respected by her colleagues throughout the world. With quiet determination and extraordinary focus she led Carnegie Hall with distinction and elegance. Her special sensitivity supporting young musicians had an important mark on the entire profession. We send our condolences to her husband, Ron, her sons, Edward and Joseph, and her entire family. Mary Rodgers Guettel Chairman, Board of Trustees Joseph W. Polisi President The Juilliard School
        ARRON-Judith. With great sadness the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts Inc., join the international music community to mourn the passing of Judith Arron, our esteemed colleague at Carnegie Hall. She was a creative and courageous leader who made an extraordinary contribution to our musical life. Her passion and commitment to music ensured its appreciation in the generations to come. We send our deepest condolences to her husband, Ronald; her sons, Joseph and Edward; and to her family. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Jane Moss, VP Programming Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        ARRON-Judith. On behalf of the Board of Trustees and staff of Thirteen/WNET, we wish to express our great sorrow at the passing of Judith Arron and to express our deepest condolences to her husband and children. A luminous proponent of cultural excellence, she forged a vital partnership between Carnegie Hall and Thirteen/WNET's ''Great Performances,'' enabling public television viewers across America to enjoy the sublime concerts that radiate from this glorious stage. She was a woman of vision and courage who will be greatly missed by all lovers of music. Steven Rattner, Chairman William F. Baker, President
        ARRON-Judith. The entire staff of ICM Artists mourns the passing of Judith Arron, a cherished friend and a vibrant colleague of many years. The warmth and vision of her leadership will be greatly missed throughout the music world. We extend our deepest sympathies to her entire family. David V. Foster, President Lee Lamont, Chairman Stewart J. Warkow, Executive Vice President Byron Gustafson, Senior Vice President Jenny Vogel Senior Vice President
        ARRON-Judith. The Board of Directors of Citigroup and the entire Citigroup family deeply mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Judith Arron, whose integrity, intelligence, and great spirit will be deeply missed. To her husband, Ron, her sons, Edward and Joseph, and her entire family, we extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt appreciation for sharing her energy and talents with us. Sanford I. Weill and John S. Reed, Co-Chairmen on behalf of the Board of Directors
        ARRON-Judith. The School for Strings mourns the passing of Judith Arron, a valued member of our Advisory Board and the mother of our former student, Eddie. We wish to express our deeply felt sympathy to her entire family. Louise Behrend Founder & President Melanie Shorin Chairman of the Board Alexander Yudkovsky Executive Director Sheila Keats Associate Director Emerita
        ARRON-Judith. All of us at the Polshek Partnership who have worked with Judith Arron for the past 12 years mourn the passing of our muse, our friend, and collaborator. Her optimism, courage and belief in the future will forever be our inspiration. James Stewart Polshek Joseph Linden Fleischer Richard Olcott Tyler Donaldson Charles Griffith Polshek Partnershipb Architects
        ARRON-Judith. The Arts & Business Council mourns the untimely passing of Judith Arron. Her passion and vision in managing Carnegie Hall will serve as a model for all of us who care about the arts. Our deepest sympathies go to her family and the great Institution she lead with consummate grace, warmth and sensitivity. Gary P. Steuer, President and CEO The Arts & Business Council
        ARRON-Judith. IMG Artists notes with great sorrow the passing of a good friend and very special lady whose grace, insight, courage and uncompromising standards will serve as a model for all arts professionals who knew her. Heartfelt condolences to her family and colleagues at Carnegie Hall. Edna Landau, Managing Director Mark H. McCormack, President, Chairman and CEO, IMG
        ARRON-Judith. We mourn the passing of Judith Arron and extend our sympathy to her family and the staff of Carnegie Hall. She established and maintained a wondrous aura for the Hall. She was always so considerate of our needs. Herb and Evelyn Strauss and the Board of the Lauri Strauss Leukemia Foundation
        ARRON-Judith. The entire Minnesota Orchestra family mourns the loss of Judith Arron. She was a superb administrator, a great friend of the arts and will be missed by all who knew her. On a personal note, Judy was very special and her memory lives on. David J. Hyslop, President Minnesota Orchestra
        ARRON-Judith. The Board of Directors and staff of City Center offer our deepest sympathy to the Board and staff of Carnegie Hall on the passing of our respected colleague, Judith Arron, and to her family. Judith E. Daykin President and Executive Director
        ARRON-Judith. We will miss your friendship, wisdom and energy. Thank you for all you have done for us and for the work we honor. The Ira and Leonore Gershwin Trust Michael and Jean Strunsky Robert Kimball Mark Trent Goldberg
        ARRON-Judith.The Board of Directors of the Oratorio Society of New York is deeply saddened by the death of Judith Arron whose devotion to Carnegie Hall was an inspiration to all who performed there. Ellen L. Blair, President
      