
        LEVY - Sam. The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester community notes with deepest sorrow the passing of Sam Levy, devoted trustee. Sam's dedication and generosity played a pivotal roll in the creation and development of our school. Our deepest sympathy to Marie and his family. M. Mac Schwebel, Chairman, Board of Trustees James M. Dubin, Vice Chairman, Board of Trustees Elliot D. Spiegel, Headmaster
        LEVY-Samuel J., 90, a resident of Palm Beach, FL. for 30 years, he is survived by his wife of 60 years, Marie, his children, Lois Brechner (Dave), Mark Levy (Debbie) and Martha Levy; grandchildren Kenneth, Eric, Jonathan, Steven Brechner, and Rachel, Aaron, Dori Levy. He had three loving great grandchildren. A sister Frances Korn, 3 brothers Murray, Sidney and Al (Norma). A great philanthropist and community service leader, he served on the governing bodies of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Jewish Theological Seminary, Solomon Schechter School of Westchester and the Anti-Defamation League. He was a kind, loving, caring and charitable human being and will be sorely missed. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the ADL, 324 Datura Street, West Palm Beach, FL. 33401. Services will be graveside today, 2:00 PM, at New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, New York. For further information call Riverside Nassau North, 516-487-9600.
        LEVY-Samuel J. Temple Israel Center of White Plains mourns the passing of its long time friend and former president, Samuel J. Levy. His congenial personality and devotion to this community, to Jewish education, and to his family and friends, remain an enduring inspiration. We extend condolences to his wife Marie, and to his children, Lois, Mark and Martha, and their families. ''The righteous man will be remembered forever'' Gordon Tucker, Rabbi Richard Greenfield, President
        LEVY-Samuel. The Officers, Directors, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extend their sympathy to Alfred W. Levy, founding Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Gurwin Center, on the loss of his beloved brother, Samuel Levy. Our heart felt condolences to the entire family. Joseph Gurwin, President Herbert H. Friedman, Exec VP
        LEVY-Samuel. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Samuel Levy in Palm Beach, FL, a generous supporter of the League's agenda. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Marie and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
      