
        UNANUE-Joseph F. 41. Died November 28 of complications from a bone marrow transplant. Mr. Unanue was Executive Vice President of Goya Foods, the country's largest Hispanic-owned food company. He was the grandson of the company's founders, Prudencio and Carolina Unanue and the son of Carmen Ana and Joseph A. Unanue, Goya President. Mr. Unanue was born in Puerto Rico. He graduated from Duke University and earned an MBA from the University of North Carolina. He began his career as Marketing Director at Goya's Secaucus, New Jersey, site in 1981; in 1986 he became VP of Operations. Later, in 1990, he was named General Manager of Goya de Puerto Rico, where he supervised manufacturing operations and marketing. Last year, Mr. Unanue was promoted to Executive Vice President. Mr. Unanue, a dedicated father, is survived by his three daughters; Isabel, Sofia and Juliana and his parents Carmen Ana and Joseph. In addition, he leaves four sisters: Mari, wife of John Norris; Mary Ann, wife of Xavier Quinones; Mimi, wife of Jose Guggenheim; Maribel, wife of Gerard McVicar, his brother Andy Unanue and other family members in the United States and Puerto Rico. The body will be flown to his native home of Puerto Rico today. The wake will be held December 3 at the Puerto Rico Memorial Funeral Home, 1712 Avenida Ponce De Leon, Santurce, Puerto Rico, 8:00am10:00pm (787-727-3222). The Mass will be held December 4 at Perpetuo Socorro Church at 9:00am, Jose Marti Street (between Jose Marti & Union St), Miramar, Puerto Rico. The burial will take place at the Porta Coeli Cemetery, Bayamon, Puerto Rico. En lieu of flowers, the family asks that contributions be made to the C&J Unanue Foundation, 100 Seaview Drive, Secaucus, NJ. The family foundation will be supporting the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, Washington.
        UNANUE-Joseph F. The staff of BSMG Worldwide mourns the loss of Joseph F. Unanue, Executive Vice President, Goya Foods. His dedication, passion and integrity were an inspiration. Our condolences to his family.
      