
        FEINBERG-Abraham. The Weizmann Institute of Science, its Feinberg Graduate School and its American Committee join in mourning the passing, at age 90, of a legendary figure in our history. With unique leadership gifts of vision, action and determination, Abe Feinberg was strongly committed to U.S.-Israel friendship and to the Weizmann Institute. For half a century he played a prominent role in rallying American support for Israel. A proud moment came when he accompanied President Chaim Weizmann to his first meeting with President Truman. In 1947, Mr. Feinberg joined the Board of Directors of the American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science. He remained an active director for 51 years, including service as ACWIS President and Chairman. He was Honorary Fellow and Chairman Emeritus of the International Board of Governors of the Wiezmann Institute and Founding Chairman of its Feinberg Graduate School, established through his efforts in 1958. We shall miss him deeply, and express our warmest condolences to his wife Lillian, daugher Judith and the entire family. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Prof. Haim Harari, President Robert H. Asher, Chairman American Committee and President Feinberg Graduate School Albert Willner, M.D., President American Committee Martin Kraar, Exec. V.P. Prof. Melvin Schwartz, Chairman Feinberg Graduate School Prof. Samuel Safran Dean
        FEINBERG-Abraham. The Brandeis University community mourns the death of a great leader, whose friendship we have treasured since the University's early years. As Chairman of the Board of Trustees from 1954 to 1961, during the period of the University's greatest physical and academic expansion, he built the foundation on which the University proudly stands today. The University awarded him an honorary doctorate in 1961, in recognition of his powerful leadership, which was always coupled with a sincere and profound modesty. Most recently, Mr. Feinberg established the International Center for Ethics, Justice and Public Life, based on the Brandeis Campus and in Jerusalem. This is a noble dream turned into reality, like the State of Israel and like Brandeis University, both of which owe so much to Mr. Feinberg's pioneering leadership. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Lillian; to his daughter, Dr. Judith Schneider Weissberg; to his sister, Belle Feinberg, and his brother, The Honorable Judge Wilfred Feinberg; to his four grandchildren, including Dr. B. Steven Feinberg, a Brandeis alumnus, Class of 1985; and to his entire family. Jehuda Reinharz, President Barton J. Winokur, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        FEINBERG-Abraham. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of our good friend and benefactor. Mr. Feinberg and his wife, Lillian, established an academic chair in schizophrenia research in memory of their late son, Dr. E. Richard Feinberg, a distinguished member of our psychiatry faculty. To Mrs. Feinberg and the entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. T. Byram Karasu Silverman Professor and Chairman of Psychiatry
        FEINBERG-Abraham. The Harry S. Truman Library Institute and the Harry S. Turman Library and Museum note with sadness the passing of Abraham Feinberg, a close associate of President Truman strongly involved in the shaping of Israel and important efforts here at home. To his wife, family, and all of his loved ones, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Willard L. Boyd President, Board of Directors Harry S. Truman Library Institute Larry J. Hackman Director Harry S. Truman Library and Museum
        FEINBERG-Abraham. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourn the passing of our esteemed friend. We will always remember Abraham Feinberg for his steadfast commitment to Israel and his support of cancer research at Tel Aviv University. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Lillian and the family. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University Bernard Rapoport, Chairman, Board of Directors Melvin S. Taub, Chairman Emeritus Robert J. Topchik, President Jules Love, Executive V.P.
        FEINBERG-Abraham. On December 5, 1998. The City Athletic Club records with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Abraham Feinberg. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife and family. Board of Governors City Athletic Club of New York
      