
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Boca Raton Judaic Fellows Program mourns the loss of the beloved mother of Daniel S. Abraham, Judith Steinberg, and Jerry Abraham. Through the generosity of the Abraham & Steinberg families, hundreds of people have been exposed to their Jewish heritage in an exciting, tolerant environment. The Daniel S. Abraham and Dr. Edward Steinberg endowment of the Senior Kollel Fellow Chair has created bridges of tolerance through the teaching of Torah throughout the South Florida Jewish Community. There is no doubt that their commitment to guarantee the eternality of the Jewish people was motivated and nurtured by the matriarch of the family. Beloved by her children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, Stella embued the spirit of the Maccabees and her light will continue to shine through the actions of her family. Rabbi Kenneth Brander Dean Aharon Ungar, President
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva records with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of S. Daniel (and Ewa) Abraham, Judith (and Dr. Edward L.) Steinberg, and Jeremiah (and Geula) Abraham. Mrs. Abraham was a true Eishet Chayil whose legacy of devotion to Torah, the Jewish People and the Land of Israel lives on through the exemplary deeds of her children on behalf of so many worthy causes. Daniel Abraham, an original Yaakov Herzog Memorial Awardee, and Dr. Edward Steinberg are dedicated friends and supporters of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva, the premier Religous Zionist educational movement. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marvin S. Bienenfeld, Chairman Joel M. Schreiber, President Rabbi David Warshaw, Exec Dir
        ABRAHAM-Stella Kronvet. Dr. and Mrs. Abraham welcomed us at Havdalah in Long Beach fifty years ago. Our family grew up with Danny, Judy, Jerry and Roy z''l, rejoiced with them and shared their sorrow. A visit to her in Toronto was a special experience. May they, their wonderful spouses, grandchildren and their families find consolation in Jerusalem. Els Bendheim and Family
      