
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. On her 102nd birthday, Baruch Dayan Emet, the beloved wife of the late Dr Samuel Abraham and loving mother of Judy Steinberg, Daniel Abraham, Jerry Abraham and the late Roy Abraham. Cherished mother-inlaw, adored grandmother, great grandmother and elder sister. Grandma Stella was an extraordinary, unforgettable woman whose long and distinctive life was an ongoing inspiration to her family and a remarkable source of blessing to the Jewish people and the world. The radiant matriarch of our family, she was for us the very embodiment of the Eishet Chayil, a woman of valour who was blessed with uncommon goodness, unflagging strength, deep wisdom, a profound faith and trust in God and Ishah Chashuvah, a woman of dignity in every sense, possessed of both inner and outer beauty. An outstanding daughter of the Jewish people and of the Jewish faith, Grandma Stella's life was filled with Torah and Mitzvot, as she devoted herself to helping others, in particular inspiring the young women of the Stella K. Abraham High School for Girls, of whom she was so proud to walk in her footsteps and like her to strengthen Jewish life, both near and far. Her memory will live not just in the causes and institutions that bear her name, but in our hearts forever. Shiva is being observed at the Herring residence, 1495 Bay Boulevard, Atlantic Beach until Monday morning. Services at 7am (Sunday at 8am) and 4:15pm. In Toronto shiva will be observed at the Abraham home from Saturday night til Monday.
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of Stella K. Abraham, the matriarch of one of the most distinguished Jewish families on this continent on her 102nd birthday. We extend sincerest condolences to her children, S. Daniel and Ewa Abraham, Dr. Edward L. Steinberg and Judith Abraham Steinberg, Jeremiah and Geula Abraham and her grandchildren and her greatgrandchildren. She inspired her offspring with such a love of their ancestral heritage, that they have become in their respective communities pillars of their congregations, benefactors of World Jewry, patrons of universities and indeed patrons of almost every worthy cause in North America and Israel. Their philanthropies know no bounds and include causes interdenominational and are especially promotive of health, educational and general welfare concerns. Her son, Daniel and her son-in-law, Dr. Edward L. Steinberg are Honorary Alumni of our University and have been especially helpful in the development of our School of Economics and Business Administration which bears Daniel Abraham's name and The School of Economics and Business Administration Library, which bears the name of Dr. Edward L. Steinberg and that of his wife, Judith Abraham Steinberg. Through their benefactions her family has earned a worldwide reputation as giants in philanthropy and her name will be blessed eternally. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Bar-Ilan University Professor Moshe Kaveh, Pres. Bar-Ilan University Selik Wengrowsky, Chairman, Global Board of Trustees Melvin Stein, President American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Charles Dimston, Chairman American Board of Trustees Bar-Ilan University Brig. Gen. (Res.) Yehuda Halevey, Executive Vice President Bar-Ilan University
        ABRAHAM-Stella The Worldwide family of Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem extends heartfelt condolences to our devoted friends and benefactors, S. Daniel (and Ewa) Abraham and Judith (and Dr. Edward L.) Steinberg, on the loss of their beloved mother. To anyone who had the good fortune of knowing her, Mrs. Abraham was a source of happiness and joy. She was a righteous woman who personified the qualities of elegance, grace and extraordinary dignity. Throughout her life, she exemplified the values of modesty, integrity and kindness and was ever faithful to Am Yisrael, Torat Yisrael and Eretz Yisrael. Today through their support of Shaare Zedek and so many other organizations, the Abraham and Steinberg families carry on the legacy that they learned from their mother. Thanks to their generosity and vision, the Harry, Judith and Leonard Wilf Woman and Infant Center on ''Charlie's Floor'' rises above the skyline as a beacon of hope to the thousands of patients who are cared for with ultra-modern technology, compassion and dignity. May Daniel, Judith, their brother Jeremiah and the entire family have loving memories of this wonderful and caring woman, and may they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, President Lee Weinbach, President National Women's Division Sidney Adler, Treasurer International Board of Directors Jack C. Bendheim, Co-Chair Michael G. Jesselson, Co-Chair Stuart Tauber, Executive Director
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The American Friends of Sanz Medical Center - Laniado Hospital deeply mourn the passing of a true woman of valor, matriarch of an illustrious family synonymous with charity and kindness. Her son S. Daniel-an innovator in Jewish Philanthropy and the quest for peace for Israel-established the S. Daniel Abraham Geriatric Center at Laniado Hospital, Netanya in tribute to his mother's blessing of longevity. Her daughter and son-in-law Judith and Dr. Edward Steinberg are very generously involved in the development of the Geriatric Center and the S. Daniel Abraham Operating Theaters at Netanya's only hospital. Our heartfelt condolences to Judith, S. Daniel and Jeremiah and the entire bereaved family. May the Almighty comfort you among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Stanley M. Hyman Esq, Chairman Sidney Greenwald, Chairman International Board Henry Spitzer, Secretary
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The partners of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle are deeply saddened by the passing of Mrs. Stella K. Abraham, beloved mother of our dear friends Judith A. Steinberg, S. Daniel Abraham, Jeremiah Abraham and the late Roy E. Abraham. She was a deeply religious woman with keen insight. Together with her late beloved husband Dr. Samuel Abraham, she was an inspiration to her family, friends and all who knew her. She lived a long and fruitful life and had the blessing to see the many wonderful accomplishments of her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. She will be missed. The Partners of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Stella K. Abraham, beloved mother of S. Daniel Abraham, a dedicated supporter who emulates the extraordinary generosity and humanitarian concerns of a family that is admired for its deep commitment to the Jewish community. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mr. Abraham and his wife, Ewa; Mrs. Abraham's daughter, Judith Steinberg and her husband, Edward; her son, Jeremiah, and his wife, Geula; and the entire family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. Mesivta Yeshiva Rabbi Chaim Berlin/Gur Aryeh Institute expresses its heartfelt condolences to our dear friends, Mr. S. Daniel Abraham, Mr. Jerry Abraham, and Mrs. Edward (Judith) Steinberg, on the loss of their beloved mother, Stella K. Abraham a ''h. May her memory serve as a blessing for the entire Abraham and Steinberg families and may they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Abraham H. Fruchthandler, Pres. Rabbi Y. Mayer Lasker, Exec. Dir. Rabbi Chaim Nate Segal, S. Daniel Abraham Chair for Jewish Outreach & Development
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Hebrew Academy of Nassau County extends its heartfelt condolences to Mr. S. Daniel Abraham, Dr. Edward and Judith Steinberg, Mr. Jerry Abraham and the entire Abraham family, on the passing of Stella K. Abraham. A gracious orthodox matriarch, she was committed to Jewish causes, Jewish education, charity and good deeds-qualities she instilled in her family. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Moshe Gottesman, Dean Harvey S. Liebman, President Isaac Blachor, Chairman of the Board
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and its American Associates mourn the passing of Stella Abraham, beloved mother of S. Daniel Abraham, Jeremiah Abraham and Judith Abraham Steinberg. A woman of valor whose family honors her with its commitment to the support of causes that strengthen Jewish life and values, and improve the lives of people throughout the world. Professor Avishay Braverman, President, BGU Kenneth L. Tucker, Chairman, AABGU Jules I. Whitman, President, AABGU
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of Stella K. Abraham, beloved mother of our distinguished friends and generous supporters Judith (and Dr. Edward) Steinberg, S. Daniel (and Ewa) Abraham and Jeremiah (and Geula) Abraham. Her children have demonstrated through their leadership role in the Jewish community, and their commitment and generosity to Jewish outreach, the values and heritage she implanted in them. May her memory be a blessing. Sincere condolences to the family. Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchwald, Dir.
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Western Wall Heritage Foundation mourns the passing of Mrs. Stella K. Abraham, the mother of our benefactor, S. Daniel (and Ewa) Abraham, Judith (and Dr. Edward L.) Steinberg and Jeremiah (and Geula) Abraham. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ingeborg Rennert, Chairman Samuel Eisenstat, President Alfred Mackler, Treasurer Joseph Loshinsky, Exec V.P. Western Wall Heritage Foundation
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our distinguished benefactor and most generous supporter, S. Daniel Abraham. Her legacy is enriched by the magnanimous and righteous deeds of her children. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May her memory always be a source of blessing and inspiration. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, President Seymour G. Siegel, Treasurer
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Palm Beach Orthodox Synagogue mourns the passing of Stella K. Abraham. We express our heartfelt condolences to Judy Steinberg, wife of our esteemed CoPresident, Dr. Edward Steinberg and to S. Daniel Abraham, our Board Member and to Jerry Abraham, our member. May God comfort the entire family. Moshe E. Scheiner, Rabbi Michael C. Gelfand, M.D., Co-President
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Stella K. Abraham, beloved mother of our friend and supporter, S. Daniel Abraham. We extend our deepest condolences to Danny and the entire Abraham family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        ABRAHAM-Stella. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of its devoted friend, Mr. Daniel Abraham, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres., David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Ramaz School Family mourns the passing of the beloved mother of its alumnae parent and very generous benefactor, S. Daniel Abraham and extends heartfelt sympathy to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman, Board of Directors
      