
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. Torah Umesorah, the National Society of Hebrew Day Schools, mourns the passing of Stella K. Abraham, matriarch of the illustrious Abraham family, mother of our dear friend and benefactor, S. Daniel Abraham. Each generation is blessed with relatively few individuals with the vision, the passion, the selflessness and the means to have an effect on the larger community. Only a fraction of these succeed in actually effecting change. Stella of blessed memory has gone even further. As is evident from the daily lives of the people she and her husband raised, and the institutions they so generously support, Stella has dramatically and permanently transformed the entire Jewish community. Stella's passing on the festive days of Chanukah is a tribute to her kindling of pure oil during a wholesome lifetime which will all but miraculously ignite the hearts and souls of Jews throughout the world for generations to come. We express our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences. May her memory continue to serve as a constant source of inspiration and may Hashem comfort the family among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Jack Rajchenbach, Pres. Rabbi Joshua Fishman, Exec. V.P. Rabbi Nate Segal, Director of Day School and Community Development
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. We record with sorrow the passing of the family matriarch, beloved wife of the late Dr. Samuel K. Abraham, and adored mother of S. Daniel Abraham, Judith Abraham Steinberg and Jerry Abraham. Our flagship program, Camp Simchathe only kosher camp in the world for children with cancer-is named in memory of Dr. Abraham due to the generous benefaction of S. Daniel Abraham and Dr. and Mrs. Edward Steinberg, to whom we are deeply grateful. We are joined by the children and families we serve world-wide in extending heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May their generosity serve as a merit for the soul of their mother and mother-in-law. CHAI LIFELINE Rabbi Simcha Scholar Executive Vice-President Joseph B. Sprung President Mendel Brill Chairman
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Ohr Torah Stone Colleges and Graduate Programs mourn with sorrow the peaceful passing of a majestic matriarch, mother of our beloved friends and international leaders: S. Daniel Abraham and Ewa, Judith and Dr. Edward Steinberg, Jeremiah and Geula Abraham, the late Roy Abraham and their magnificent families. Mother Stella Abraham ruled her clan with a beneficent smile and continued to teach until her very last breath by means of the manifold commitments to which she dedicated her life. May the Chanukah lights, over which she blessed on her 102nd birthday, light her path in Gan Eden and continue to give light and love to succeeding generations of children, grandchildren, and great grandchildren. Shlomo Riskin, Chancellor and Dean
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The American Friends of the Jerusalem College of Technology mourns the death of the mother of our generous benefactor S. Daniel Abraham, whose S. Daniel Abraham Chair in Technological Management continues to educate Israel's future leaders in high technology, and to Dr. and Mrs. Edward Steinberg whose generosity has enabled JCT to fulfill its vital mission. Our condolences to the entire Abraham and Steinberg families. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Seymour G. Siegel, President Jonathan Feldstein, Exec. Dir.
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Board of Directors, staff, parents and students of Manhattan High School for Girls, Machon Yaakov, express their heartfelt condolences to Mr. S. Daniel Abraham, a founder and dedicated supporter, upon the passing of his beloved mother, a''h. Our sincere condolences also go to Mrs. Judith (Edward) Steinberg and Mr. Jerry Abraham and to the entire family who bless her memory through their generosity and devotion to the Jewish people. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. George Klein, Chairman
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. Yeshiva Rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our dedicated benefactor S. Daniel Abraham a unique Philanthropist on behalf of Torah and Am Yisroel. We express our deepest condolences to Mr. Abraham and his wife, Ewa. Mrs. Abraham's daughter, Judith Steinberg and her husband, Edward, her son, Jeremiah, and his wife Geulah; and the entire family. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Zachariah Gelley, Dean Max Rosenberg, Chairman of the Board
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Israel Heart Fund extends its heartfelt condolences to our devoted friends and benefactors, S. Daniel (and Ewa) Abraham and Judith (and Dr. Edward L.) Steinberg on the loss of their beloved mother. Their generous contributions to advancing the state of health care in Israel and to other causes bears testimony to her legacy and the virtues with which she raised her children. May her memory always be a source of blessing to the family. Dr. Morton Leibowitz, President Martin Fawer, Chrmn of the Brd
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. Heartfelt condolences to our distinguished member of the Board of Governors, patron and founder, Mr. S. Daniel Abraham and his sister, Mrs. Edward Steinberg, upon the passing of their mother. Hamakom Yenachemchem. Yeshivat Sha'alvim Rav Avraham Avidan, Rosh HaYeshiva Rabbi Mallen Galinsky, Dean Zvi Kasspi, Administrator Alex Hornstein, President Werner Rosenbaum, Chairman Rabbi Philip H. Singer, Executive Chairman
        ABRAHAM-Stella. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of Stella Abraham, mother of S. Daniel Abraham, our dear friend and supporter. Her commitment to Israel, the Jewish people and Yiddushkeit is reflected in her children and grandchildren. We pray that the family will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mel Salberg, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Orthodox Caucus extends its heartfelt condolences to the family of Stella K. Abraham, an outstanding daughter of the Jewish people, and the mother of S. Daniel Abraham, whose philanthropic and moral leadership established The S. Daniel Abraham and Ira L. Rennert Torah Ethics Project of the Caucus. May he, and the entire family, be comforted by their memories of her wonderful qualities, among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. Gesher records with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of our esteemed Board member, S. Daniel Abraham, and our dear friends, Judith Steinberg and Jerry Abraham. Our sincere condolences to the entire bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Daniel Tropper, President Philip Schatten, Chairman Hillel Wiener, Exec Vice Pres
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. We mourn the death of Stella K. Abraham, beloved mother of S. Daniel Abraham, our benefactor and supporter of human rights, religious freedom and tolerance. Our deepest sympathy to him and the entire family. Appeal of Conscience Foundation Rabbi Arthur Schneier, President Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. Dr. David H.C. Read Vice President
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. Temple Beth-El mourns the loss of a righteous woman and offers sincere condolences to Judy Steinberg, Danny, Jerry Abraham, family. Harry Brown, President David Fisch, Chair of Board Abraham Kupchik, Rabbi
      