
        GOLDSTEIN-Murray A. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our good friend and distinguished member of our Board of Overseers and a Guardian of our University. A kind, gentle and compassionate man, his counsel and wisdom will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to his wife, Gladys; to his children, Sanford, Robert and Richard; to the other members of his family and to his many friends. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        GOLDSTEIN-Murray A. On December 9, 1998 at home after a long illness. Beloved husband of Gladys of 57 years. Loving father of Sandy and Brianne, Robert and Barbara, Richard and Marianne. Adored grandfather of Aaron, Joshua, Jennie, Toby, Michael and Brian. Brother of Harold Goldstein and Edith Schwartz. Illness could not dim his smile or stop his teasing way. He handled his illness with great dignity. He loved us and we loved him. We know he will be missed by all whose lives he touched. Funeral Friday December 11 at 10am at Temple Israel of New Rochelle, 1000 Pinebrook Boulevard, New Rochlle, NY. In lieu of flowers, please contribute to a charity of your choice.
        GOLDSTEIN-Murray A. The Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester Family mourns the passing of their esteemed friend, governor, advocate and benefactor. A devoted philanthropist and torchbearer for countless charitable organizations, he championed the cause of health care at Sound Shore Medical Center for more than two decades as a member of its Board of Governors. As Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and the Sound Shore Medical Center Foundation, he was instrumental in raising millions of dollars to build facilities and support programs that touched the lives of people throughout our region. Together with his devoted wife, Gladys, he built a timeless legacy of service and giving through such programs as The Goldstein Service Awards and the Gladys and Murray Goldstein Cancer Center, which will honor his life and his memory in perpetuity. Our thoughts and prayers are with Gladys, and children, Richard, Robert and Sanford and their families. John R. Spicer, President and CEO Clark E. Walter, Chairman Board of Governors
        GOLDSTEIN-Murray. It is with deep sorrow that the United Hebrew Geriatric Center mourns the passing of Murray Goldstein, member of the Board of Directors and ardent supporter of the Center for many years. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his bereaved wife, Gladys and his family. Malcolm Lazarus, President David Shatz, Chairman Rita C. Mabli, Executive Vice President
        GOLDSTEIN-Murray. A gracious, loving and talented gentleman. Deeply devoted to his partner and life mate Gladys and to his three sons, their wives and his adoring six grandchildren. He cared so very much about so very many others who benefited by his active concern and efforts in their behalf. We were privileged to be part of his extended family and will deeply miss him. Jerry, Maxine and Tad Belson
        GOLDSTEIN-Murray. Honorary President and inspirational leader. Major benefactor of Temple Israel of New Rochelle. He brought our congregation to the highest excellence. To his wife Gladys, who shared his vision and success, his sons and all the family, our everlasting gratitude and deep sympathy. Michael Tannenbaum, President Amiel Wohl, Senior Rabbi
        GOLDSTEIN-Murray. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Murray Goldstien. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Gladys, his children, Sanford, Robert and Richard and to his grandchildren. Len Shendell, President Judith Tarter, Secretary
        GOLDSTEIN-Murray. We are proud to call you our friend, mentor and teacher. We love you, we will miss you, and we will never forget you. Rest in peace. Madeline, David, Jacquelyn and Casey Max.
      