
        HIGGINBOTHAM-A. Leon, Jr. The partners, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the passing of our Senior Counsel, Judge A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., a great lawyer, wise jurist, dedicated public servant, admired colleague and beloved friend. Judge Higginbotham will long be remembered for his deep commitment to social causes, his wise counsel and his many accomplishments. His death is a profound loss to all who knew and loved him and to the nation at large. We extend our deepest sympathies and condolences to his wife, Evelyn, his sons, Stephen and Kenneth, his daughters, Nia and Karen, and all the other members of his family.
        HIGGINBOTHAM-A. Leon, Jr. The board, staff and student for Prep for Prep note with sadness the passing of our esteemed trustee, Judge A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr. We will always remember him for communicating to our students that it is possible for one person to make a difference. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Martin Lipton, Chairman John Vogelstein, President Prep for Prep
        HIGGINBOTHAM-A. Leon Jr., Antioch College sends its sincere condolences to the family and friends of A. Leon Higginbotham Jr., class of 1949 and distinguished recipient of the Horace Mann Award for his victories for humanity. As a fearless advocate of social justice, he reminded us that ''...there is no more time for foolishness.'' We will honor his legacy through education that teaches students to use their voices to speak out against injustice.
        HIGGINBOTHAM-A. Leon, Jr. National Association for the Advancement of Colored People profoundly regrets the death of Judge A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., esteemed and distinguished member of our NAACP family for some forty years. We will ever be grateful beneficiaries of his singular wisdom and counsel. Our deepest sympathy to his family. Julian Bond, Chairman Kweisi Mfume, President/CEO
        HIGGINBOTHAM-A. Leon, Jr. The Brennan Center For Justice and the NYU Law School community wish to convey our condolences to the family of Judge A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., our distinguished and respected Board member, upon his death. His wisdom and compassion will continue to inspire us.
      