
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a great Jewish matriarch, who was venerated by her family and the Jewish communities of Long Beach, NY; Toronto; and Miami Beach and Palm Beach. Beloved mother of Judith Abraham (and Dr. Edward L.) Steinberg, S. Daniel (and Ewa) Abraham, and Jeremiah (and Geula) Abraham, Stella Abraham was revered for her deep involvement in religious life in Long Beach. The Stella K. Abraham Girls High School in Hewlett, an eminently successful Orthodox school, was named in her honor. She was a grand lady, gracious and charitable, who cherished her Orthodox heritage, which she imbued within the hearts and lives of her children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. She took great pride in the achievements of her entire family, and delight in their leadership roles in the world Jewish community, especially at Yeshiva University, where S. Daniel Abraham-honorary trustee and honorary alumnus-and Dr. and Mrs. Edward L. Steinberg are Benefactors. They have been in the forefront of advancing higher education through the S. Daniel Abraham Israel Program and other visionary projects. May her memory serve as a source of enduring blessing to the entire Abraham family, and may they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Administration, Officers, Directors, Faculty, Parents and Students of the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach note with profound sorrow the passing of Mrs. Stella K. Abraham A''H. Mrs. Abraham was the dynamic matriarch of a family that is world renowned for its commitment to charity and to good deeds, to the support of Jewish causes and to the strengthening of Jewish education. Her legacy lives on in the Stella K. Abraham High School for Girls of the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach, which was dedicated by her loving family in 1994 in honor of her 98th Birthday. Our heartfelt condolences to Dr. Edward and Judith Steinberg, Mr. S. Daniel Abraham and Mr. Jerry Abraham and their entire family. May the Almighty console the bereaved family with the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Dr. Armin H. Friedman, Dean Emeritus Rabbi Dr. Heshy T. Glass, Principal Mrs. Helen Spirn, Principal, Stella K. Abraham High School for Girls Rabbi Yisroel Y. Kaminetsky, Menahel, HALB Yeshiva High School for Boys Hillel Davis and Stuart Samuels, Presidium Jerry Williams, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Jack Katz, Chairman of the Board of Directors Rabbi Zvi H. Friedman, Exec. Dir. Richard Hagler, Executive Admin.
        ABRAHAM-Stella K. Temple Emanu-El of Palm Beaches expresses its heartfelt condolences to our esteemed congregant Mr. Daniel Abraham on the passing of his beloved mother, Stella K. Abraham. May God comfort you and other mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Leonid Feldman Stephen A. Levin, President
      