
        GORDON - Kenneth. Cherished son of Vivien & Sherwin, devoted brother & best friend of Jonathan. Kenny's spontaneity, humor and love of life will always be treasured by us & missed by his loyal friends. Donations can be made to the Central Synagogue Restoration Fund. Services will be on Tuesday at 1:00 PM, at Central Synagague, 123 E. 55th St. Kenny, you will be in our hearts forever. Love Mom, Dad and Jon.
        GORDON-Kenneth. Beloved son of Sherwin and Vivien Gordon, loyal and long-time members of Central Synagogue, and adored brother of John. His enthusiasm and loving decency were gifts to all who knew him. Our hearts and prayers are with his family. Services at Central Synagogue, 123 East 55th Street, NYC, at 1 PM, Tuesday, December 22nd. Rabbi Peter J. Rubinstein Martin I. Klein, President
        GORDON-Kenneth. To our dear colleague Vivien, husband Sonny, son Jonathan, our love and sympathies at this time of great sorrow. May you be comforted by knowing that we all share in your loss. NS/PC Staff Susan Alpert, Director Dr. David Kaufman, NS Comp. Chair Central Synagogue May Family Nursery School
        GORDON-Kenneth. Age 26, our dear friend, we mourn your untimely passing. We will sorely miss you. Our hearts and love go out to the family. Richie, Scott, Renee, Juliet, Deb, Ian, Jenny, Johnny, Marla, Dina and Josh
        GORDON-Kenneth. We mourn with our dearest friends, Vivien, Sonny, and Jon on the loss of their beloved son and brother. Bearsie, you are an irreplaceable part of our family who will always be remembered with love. Judi, Melissa, Mike, and Chris
        GORDON-Kenneth. Kenny, we will miss your smile, your beautiful face, and most of all we will miss you and the light you brought into our lives. Our love goes out to Vivien, Sonny and Jonny. Love, Trudi, Bob, Eric and Jeffrey
        GORDON-Kenny. Our hearts are filled with pain and sadness for our dear friends Vivien, Sonny and John-a bright light has been put out. Rest in peace, dear Kenny. Sheila, David and Marc
        GORDON-Kenneth. Kenny, we'll miss you. You will never know how much you filled our lives with laughter. Love, Eric and Jeffrey
        GORDON-Kenneth. Goodnight, our wonderful Kenny boy. Sweet dreams forever. We will always love you. Carole, Ronnie, Ruthie, Hope E.
        GORDON-Kenneth. Our darling Kenny. We will always be your best audience. Bless you. Gina & Noah
      