
        SPITALNY-Ethel Z. Of Aventura, Fl. On December 17, 1998. Beloved wife of Melvin. Devoted mother of David Kahn (Linda), Daniel Kahn (Nancy) and Debra Brun. Adored grandmother of Lesley Berkowitz (Steven), Hillary and Wendy Kahn, Stefanie and Jamie Kahn, Jeffrey Schwartz (Debbie) and Andrew Schwartz (Heath). Also greatgrandmother of Amanda Schwartz, Ben and Sam Schwartz. Loving sister of Edward Zornberg (Flo), Sylvia Posner and Rose Goldberg. Ethel was a successful businesswoman and, most recently, was an inspiration to many as President of the Junior Auxiliary of the Miami Jewish Home and Hospital at Douglas Gardens. She had style and class and will always be remembered. Funeral services on Sunday, December 20th, at 12:30 P.M., at Plaza Memorial in New York City, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        SPITALNY-Ethel. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted Member and past President of Sisterhood, Ethel Spitalny. To her husband Melvin, past President of the Men's Club, her children David, Daniel and Debra, her brother and sister-in-law, Trustee Dr. Edward and Florence Zornberg, her sisters Sylvia and Rose, and to the entire family, our sincere condolences. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        SPITALNY-Ethel. Park East Synagogue Sisterhood expresses its deepest sorrow on the death of our beloved past President, Ethel Spitalny. Condolences to her husband Melvin and the entire family. Beverly Greenberg, President Polly Etkind Hochberg, Chairman of the Board
        SPITALNY-Ethel. Park East Synagogue Men's Club mourns the death of Ethel Spitalny, sister of our esteemed Member, Dr. Edward Zornberg. May he be comforted among the Mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Allan R. Goldberg, President Herman Hochberg, Chairman
        SPITALNY-Ethel (Nee Zornberg). The Shalom Fannie Zornberg Group of Hadassah deeply mourns the passing of our dedicated former president. Her wit and beauty were exceeded only by her generousity and unfailing devotion. Sylvia Slatin-Katz, President
      