
        SCHULDER-Hilda Beim. Devoted wife of Jacob for sixty-two years, sister of the late Ruth Beim Krieger. Loving mother of Diane, Sylvia and Howard. Adoring grandmother of Robert, Jeffrey, Amy, Marcy, Rachel and Becky. Great grandmother of Marlie. Died peacefully at home on Sunday, November 29, 1998. Services were held on Monday and interment was at Beth David Cemetery. She was an elegant woman of valor. Shiva at the home of Bob and Diane Abrams, 11 East 86 St.
        SCHULDER-Hilda B. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Hilda B. Schulder, beloved wife of Jacob Schulder, and cherished mother of Howard Schulder, both generous supporters of the Jewish community. Howard is a dedicated leader who serves as a member of the Executive Committee of both our Banking and Finance Division and our Downtown Campaign. We extend our deepest sympathies to Jacob and Howard; Mrs. Schulder's two daughters, Diane Abrams and Sylvia Fisher; her six grandchildren; and one great grandchild. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        SCHULDER-Hilda. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University mourn the passing of Hilda Schulder and extend sincerest condolences to her beloved husband, Jack, and their children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. She will be remembered fondly by many of us who resided on Long Island, in New York, and in Palm Beach for her devotion to our people and its many causes. From inspiring memories, we must all derive comfort. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Brig. Gen. (Res.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President
        SCHULDER-Hilda. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved wife of Jack Schulder. Together they have been major benefactors and friends of Ramaz as well as proud grandparents of distinguished alumni of our school. We extend heartfelt sympathy to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        SCHULDER-Hilda. The Jewish Center of Atlantic Beach records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Hilda Schulder, wife of Jack Schulder. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and know no further sorrow. Dr. Basil Herring, Rabbi Arthur Udell, President Armand Lindenbaum, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        SCHULDER-Hilda. Throughout your lifetime, you have been ''bestfriend'' confidant, aunt, and mentor. We will miss your words of wisdom, frankness, and honesty-most of all the love you conveyed throughout. Our lives have been so entwined with yours. The Falk Family Charlotte Falk, Ann and Michael Falk, Sue and Ronald Green, Judith and Stephen Peck
        SCHULDER-Hilda. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and its Sisterhood mourn the passing of the beloved mother of their devoted member Diane Schulder Abrams and extend heartfelt sympathy to all the members of the bereaved family. Haskel Lookstein, Rabbi Joshua I. Lookstein, Asst Rabbi Fred Distenfeld, President
        SCHULDER-Hilda. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member, beloved wife of Jacob, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres., David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President,
        SCHULDER-Hilda B. The Officers and Employees of Summa Capital Corp. record with profound sorrow the loss of the beloved wife of our Founder and Chairman Jacob J. Schulder and mother of our President Howard A. Schulder. We pray the family is spared further sorrow for many years to come.
        SCHULDER-Hilda. The partners and staff of Spector, Rothenberg & Co. mourn the passing of Hilda Schulder and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Jacob, and the entire Schulder family.
        SCHULDER-Hilda. Kos Tanchumim to the family of the late Hilda Schulder. Jack Schulder, Diane and Sylvia. Elli and Izzy Krakowski Lili, Axel, Ariella, Ilana Andrea and Harry
        SCHULDER-Hilda. A dear friend and long time member of the Woodmere Club. Our deepest sympathy to the family. The Woodmere Club
      