
        SILBERSTEIN-Sylvia, philanthropist, talented artist, and dedicated wife, mother, grandmother and friend, passed away Thursday, Dec. 17, 1998. Born in Hammond, Indiana on December 2, 1915, to Samuel & Jennie Kleinberg Levin, Sylvia was an alumni of Indiana University where she met her husband and fellow alumni William Silberstein. They subsequently married in 1937, and lived in Hammond until 1950. She and her family moved to Scarsdale in 1950 and to Rye, New York in 1968. Sylvia will be most remembered for her great sense of humor, buoyant spirit and constant smile. Her charm was contagious and she was adored by her many friends. Sylvia was noted for her culinary expertise, her love of classical music, the theater, tennis & was often consulted for her vast knowledge of travel due to her extensive world travel. Sylvia was a longstanding member of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club since 1955. She possessed sound business acumen and helped her husband found Sealectro Corporation in Mamaroneck, New York. She was also very active in the creation of various philanthropic programs. In 1984, Sylvia and her husband established the first fully endowed athletic scholarship at Indiana University and thereafter two additonal endowed athletic scholarships. Their other philanthropic endeavors include the William & Sylvia Silberstein Aging and Dementia Research Center at New York University Medical Center, the William & Sylvia Silberstein Cardiac Center at White Plains Hospital Center, and most recently, the William and Sylvia Silberstein Pavilion at White Plains Hospital Center. Sylvia supported many other charities including Cystic Fibrosis and U.J.A. amongst others. Her generous philosophy was apparent during World War II when she was President of Hammond, Indiana chapter of B'nai B'rith and she established a welcoming committee for all servicemen's trains providing food and other nourishment to them. Sylvia is survived by her husand, William of Rye, New York, her daughter Betsy Levinson of Stamford, Connecticut; her son Bruce and his wife, Carolyn, of New York City; her son, Sigmund of Boca Raton, Florida, and six loving grandchildren, Beth, Lori and Debra, Jill, Michael and Matthew; and a sister, Arlene Pascal of Highland Park, Illinois. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Silberstein Cardiac Center at White Plains Hospital Center, or The Silberstein Aging and Dementia Center at New York University Medical Center. A service will be held at 12:00 Noon on Friday, December 18th, at the Congregation Emanu-el, 2125 Westchester Avenue East, Rye, New York.
        The faculty and staff of New York University School of Medicine offer our deepest condolences to the family of Sylvia Silberstein, philanthropist, talented artist, and dedicated wife, mother and grandmother. She and her husband, William Silberstein, have been long-term, major benefactors of NYU School of Medicine and their generosity has extended to many other institutions. In recognition of their philanthropy, the William & Sylvia Silberstein Aging and Dementia Research Center at NYU carries their name. Robert M. Glickman, MD Dean, NYU School of Medicine Robert Cancro, MD Lucius N. Littauer Professor of Psychiatry and Chairman, Dept. of Psychiatry Steven H. Ferris, PhD. Director William & Sylvia Silberstein Aging and Dementia Research Center
        The Board of Directors and Members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Sylvia Silberstein, whose many years of friendship and devotion to the Club will always be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Richard M. Feldman, President Edward J. Landau, Secretary
      