
        GOLD-Martin, M.D., 80 years old, died the kind of death, in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on January 9, 1999, that he had always termed a ''blessing'' - one that came quickly and without great suffering. The lessons of his life can be measured by his achievements in the medical world and the gifts of loving compassion and generosity that he shared with all who knew him. He learned very early about inequality and discrimination as a poor youth growing up on the streets of the Lower East Side of New York. His drive to change the world from what is to what should be inspired a social consciousness that made him a committed physician who believed in the mission of medicine to comfort and heal. He served as a Navy medical officer in World War II and made the ''D Day'' invasion on Omaha Beach, which convinced him of the horrors of war and fueled his lifelong pacifism. His progressive political vision led him to join with the physician founders of the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York in what was the first pre-paid group practice model of health care. His extraordinary leadership abilities resulted in his becoming the Medical Director of the Central Queens Medical Group, the Manhattan Medical Group, the Garden State Medical Group of New Jersey, the President of the Medical Group Council of H.I.P., the Vice Chairman of the Board of H.I.P., the President of Centralized Laboratories, and the President of the Group Council Mutual Insurance Company. His profound commitment to women's health led him to co-found Choices Women's Medical Center in 1971, two years before the Supreme Court legalized abortion. He was the Vice President for Strategic Affairs and was an active, dynamic part of Choices until the day he died. As a physician, he practiced the art as well as the science of medicine, and his patients loved him for it. As a mentor, he inspired many young professionals to move beyond their limitations and live their dreams. As a man, he was honorable, honest, loving, witty, and kind. He will be deeply missed and very fondly remembered by his loving wife, Merle Hoffman, and his devoted son (by his first wife, Bernice Cherkos), Edward Gold, M.D. of New Jersey; daughter-inlaw, Holly Gold; his adored grandchildren, Elizabeth, Marissa and Max; and his loving sister, Thelma and her family of Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Contributions to the United States Holocaust Museum would be appreciated. Funeral services at Schwartz Brothers Funeral Home, Queens Boulevard, Wednesday, January 13, at 12 noon.
      