
        FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam K. On January 16, age 92. Wife of the late Milton B. Freund and of the late Harry Rosenthal. Mother of Matthew and Blanche Freund, and of Harry and Matta Freund. Grandmother of Michael and Sarah Freund, Rebecca Freund, John Freund, Carmel and Franco Kostolitz, Gilead and Geri Freund, and Liza Greenberg. Great-grandmother of ten. Former National President of Hadassah and Trustee of the United Israel Appeal, the Jewish National Fund, State of Israel Bonds and American Friends of the Hebrew University, author and lecturer. Services 11:15 AM, Monday, January 18, at The Riverside, 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.
        FREUND-ROSENTHAL-Dr. Miriam. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, deeply mourns the passing of its revered and beloved Past National President (1956-1960), Dr. Miriam Freund-Rosenthal. She was a woman of great determination, achievement and dignity. Through her daring vision, she persuaded Marc Chagall to create the worldrenowned stained glass windows for the Abell Synagogue of the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center in Jerusalem. A proud Jew and passionate Zionist, Dr. Freund-Rosenthal held a doctorate in American history and authored four scholarly books. She deeply believed in the power of education as the key to Jewish continuity. A magnanimous benefactor to Hadassah, among her gifts were clinics, research scholarships, works of art, and parks in her beloved Jerusalem, and educational seminars in Israel and the U.S. Recipient of countless international honors, she travelled extensively, interacting with world leaders wherever she went. Productive in word and deed well into her ninth decade, she was a stirring orator. Her passion for Israel and the Jewish people has inspired generations of Hadassah leaders. By her example, she demonstrated the possibilities for personal fulfillment with a life dedicated to the highest values of our tradition. We extend our sincerest sympathy to her sons, Harry and Matthew Freund, and her entire devoted family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marlene E. Post National President Dr. Laura S. Schor Executive Director
        FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam. Sutton Place Synagogue mourns the loss of our distinguished longtime member and benefactor. An ardent supporter of the State of Israel, Miriam endowed a Scholarship Fund to send young people to Israel. Our heartfelt condolences to synagogue members Harry and Matta Freund and the entire bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President
        FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam. The officers and staff of PubliCARD, Inc., extend their sympathy to Harry I. Freund, Chairman of the Board of the company on the death of his mother. We offer our condolences to Mr. Freund and the entire Freund family.
      