
        SPIVAK-Harold P. Died January 12, 1999. Devoted husband of Ruth Spivak, loving father of Steven and Barbara Spivak, father-in-law of Sandy and Howard, devoted grandfather of Lisa, Eric, Katie, Adam and Elizabeth, dear brother of Pearl Levy & Evelyn Weingold and the late Ruth, Dorothy and Murray. Memorial services will be held at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street at Amsterdam Avenue, N.Y., NY, Thursday, January 14, 1999 at 12:30 PM. Family members and friends wishing to make a donation in memory of Harold P. Spivak are requested to send their contribution to the Richard F. Walsh/Alfred W. Di Tolla Foundation, 1515 Broadway, Suite 601, New York, New York 10036, 212-730-1770.
        SPIVAK-Harold P. Spivak, Lipton, Watanabe, Spivak & Moss mourns the loss of its senior partner and leader. His extraordinary warmth, decency, brilliance and sage counsel have inspired us all. General Counsel to the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees for a half century, respected advisor to his many clients in the entertainment industry, and fighter for the rights of working men and women. We will miss him dearly. Spivak, Lipton, Watanabe, Spivak & Moss
        SPIVAK-Harold P. We note with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed counsel, Harold P. Spivak. The depth of his knowledge and breadth of his wisdom, combined with old Southern charm, made him a professional beyond compare. His wit and sense of humor allowed labor and management to find common ground and take forward steps together. His spirit and example will be with us always. The Trustees IATSE National Benefit Funds
        SPIVAK-Harold. It is with deep sadness that we mourn the loss of our esteemed, highly respected and beloved colleague and friend. His contribution to the legitimate theatre in the area of labor relations over a career that spanned over 40 years were numerous and significant. He shall be sorely missed. The League of American Theatres and Producers
        SPIVAK-Harold. We mourn the loss of Harold Spivak, Esq., who was of enormous importance to union and union funds. Benefit Funds of Wardrobe Local 764
      