
        BERNSTEIN-Zalman Chaim . ''She weeps bitterly in the night and her tear is on her cheek''. A prince in Israel has fallen. A treasured jewel of the Jewish people has been called by the Almighty to return his soul to its eternal reward. An extraordinary and humble man whose very being radiated kindness, dignity and modesty, his life reflected the majesty of Judaic values and ethics. His complete commitment to the health and well being of Klal Yisrael and the strenghthening of Torah in America and Israel were exceptional. His acts of tzedakah and chesed were the daily inspirations that guided his life, but he would not allow plaques or markers to identify his exceptional largesse. In fact, his generosity excelled beyond any rabbinic definition of tzedakah. He always viewed his resources as granted to him by the Almighty to benefit others. In the world of international business and finance where he was a giant, he never forgot for a minute who he was, his purpose in life, and his bond to Jewish tradition. He was tall in stature but reached greater heights in his deeds. When a modern day history of the Jewish people and the State of Israel is written an important chapter will be devoted to the remarkable deeds of compassion that he performed during his life, including his status as a Benefactor of the ''Hospital With a Heart''. The people of Jerusalem and Israel will be grateful for his patronage of the Jesselson Heart Center and the Harry, Judith and Leonard Wilf Woman and Infant Center on ''Charle's Floor,'' in memory of Charles H. Bendheim, z''l. Our sincerest condolences to his mother, Martha, wife, Mem, son, Claude, daughters Rochel Leah and Leslie, and the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, President Lee Weinbach, President, National Women's Division Sidney Adler, Treasurer International Board of Directors Jack C. Bendheim, Co-Chair Michael G. Jesselson, Co-Chair Stuart Tauber, Executive Director BERNSTEIN-Zalman Chaim. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of Zalman Chaim Bernstein, noted businessman, distinguished philanthropist, and devoted Jew. Reb Zalman played a key role in NJOP's founding, and his magnificent generosity through the AviChai Foundation, which he created and endowed, enabled NJOP to offer the Turn Friday Night Into Shabbat and Beginners Services programs to the entire Jewish community of America. Mr. Bernstein's love for the Torah and the Jewish people was exemplified by his vital role in the establishment and support of the Association of Jewish Outreach Professionals, dedicated to improving the professional status and skills of the Jewish outreach worker. Reb Zalman, you will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to his mother Martha, wife Mem, son Claude, daughters Leslie and Rochel Leah, and brother Paul. Hamakom Yinachem Etchem Btoch Shear Aveilay Zion V'yerushalayim. Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchwald, Dir. BERNSTEIN-Zalman Chaim. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of our esteemed friend, the eminent investment manager who expressed his devotion to the Jewish people through the support of such outreach programs as adult education strengthening commitment to Jewish values and observance. We remember him too as a founder of the Avi Chai Foundation, which has generously supported our Bernard Revel Graduate School, and as the inaugural speaker at the Dean's Forum of our Sy Syms School of Business. We extend our heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees BERNSTEIN-Zalman. The Orthodox Union deeply mourns the passing of a visionary and resourceful friend who invested much of his life and drive in an unparalleled effort to inspire and motivate scores of thousands of alienated Jews to emulate his personal example-to return to the faith of his fathers. His philanthropic Foundation and slogan ''Avi Chai'' ''My father lives'' promoted Jewish education and outreach with unprecedented creativity and independence. Who will take his place? May the family be comforted amongst the mourners for Zion and Jerusalem. Mandell I. Ganchrow, MD, Pres Marcel Weber, Chair, Bd of Dir Dr Marcos Katz, Chair, Bd of Gov Rabbi Raphael B. Butler, Exec VP Rabbi Pinchas Stolper, Sr Exec BERNSTEIN-Zalman Chaim. January 6, 1999, 19 Tevet 5759. Zalman was the founding Chairman and sole benefactor of THE AVI CHAI FOUNDATION, which was established in 1984 to promote Jewish commitment and Jewish unity. Zalman brought to his philanthropic work a broad vision, incredible energy, a keen eye for detail, and a passionate love for the Jewish people. He will be sorely missed. AVI CHAI's culture will always reflect Zalman's spirit and vision, as we continue in his path to advance the goals of the Foundation. AVI CHAI's Trustees and Staff BERNSTEIN-Zalman Chaim. Lincoln Square Synagogue mourns the passing of our dedicated trustee and one of our strongest and most devoted benefactors, Zalman Chaim Bernstein. His commitment to Torah, the Jewish people, and the land of Israel all began here and spread to the entire Jewish world. Zalman's vision of the future of our people through education inspired his generosity to many Torah institutions. May his memory serve as a blessing for his family and all of Israel. Adam Mintz, Rabbi Richard Kestenbaum, President BERNSTEIN-Zalman (Sanford). On behalf of Yeshivat Har Etzion (Gush) and the Herzog College, its leaders Rabbi Dr. Aharon Lichtenstein, Rabbi Yehuda Amital and Rabbi Shmuel Wygoda, heartfelt condolences are offered to the family and friends of Zalman Chaim Bernstein. As a proud philanthropic Jew always striving for more knowledge, he passed that pride and love of Torah on to countless Jewish students across the world. Terry Novetsky, Dorothy Berman Tobias Schapiro, Herbert Seif BERNSTEIN-Zalman Chaim (Sanford C.). Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the father of its esteemed member, Rochel Leah Bernstein. We extend to the entire family our sincere condolences on the passing of a dedicated Jewish personality. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres., David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President BERNSTEIN-Zalman C. The Shalem Center mourns the loss of Zalman C. Bernstein, devoted friend and partner. We extend our condolences to his wife Mem and to the entire Bernstein family. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Roger Hertog, Trustee Barry Klein, Trustee Yoram Hazony, President BERNSTEIN-Zalman Chaim. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend, Zalman. He strove to perfect the world; he inspired by his deeds and words; his concern enriched all who knew him. Rose and Morty BLECHMAN-Lillian. /d. April 23, 1918 to January 6, 1999. In timeless adoration and loving remembrance of a matriarch unsurpassed by all others. Lil was born in NYC and raised in Hurleyville, NY, where her father, Sam Newberg, had a general store. She was like a beautiful and delicate flower, loved to travel and laugh. A child of a bygone era, Lil managed to incorporate Old World values and tradition with modernday life. She was a shrewd businesswoman, had an eye for fashion and was the essence of a true ''yiddisha Momma.'' Lil's unwavering devotion, love, strength and nurturing kept this family bound together despite all tragedy, strife and adversity. Perhaps of greatest merit was her steadfast devotion to her husband of 56 years, who became ill in recent years. Her courage and love enabled Ben Blechman to live with dignity at home. Throughout Lil's lifetime she continued to give of herself and was always prepared to sacrifice for her loved ones. Whatever else failed, we could always depend on Lil. Lil was our home. Her wonderful stories of her life and times always kept us amazed and riveted. Her genuine concern and interest in our lives never waned. What a joy and honor it has truly been to know and love her. An angel of a Mom, a loving and proud grandmother, a champion negotiator and a best friend. She was precious beyond words. Lillian, Our Angel, God Bless and keep you in his loving embrace. Watch over us, Lil, guide us and stay with us forever. We will never stop thinking of you and loving you Your Family and Friends
      