
        GOLDMAN-Janis Meresman. 54, devoted daughter of Harry Meresman and the late Helen Chafets Meresman. Loving sister of Helaine Meresman Barnett, beloved wife of Michael David Goldman, adoring mother of Melissa Lee Goldman, Lori Goldman Zbar. Cherished aunt, dear niece, treasured friend. Contributions can be made to the Janis Meresman Goldman Memorial Fund at The Charles E. Smith Jewish Day School of Greater Washington.
        GOLDMAN - Janis Meresman. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation express our profound condolences to the family of our fellow director, Helaine Barnett on the loss of her beloved sister, Janie and to their father Harry Meresman, one of our founding directors and to our emeritus director, Victor Barnett. Janie was a spiritual force who inspired everyone she met with a deep commitment to family and a concern for the Jewish future. We will cherish our time with her. Robert S. Rifkind, Chair Eli N. Evans, President
        GOLDMAN-Janis Meresman. My life was blessed to have had such an extraordinary sister whose love, devotion, support, caring and sharing knew no bounds. She became an integral and loving part of Victor, Craig and Roger's lives as my family grew and brought special meaning of indescribable togetherness to the word sisters. Janie's unbelievable courage was an inspiration to us all. You will be forever in my heart. Lainie
        GOLDMAN-Janis Meresman. Our warmest thoughts and sympathy are with our sister-in-law and aunt Lainie, with Victor and all the family, and with Janie's beloved husband, Michael and loving daughters Melissa and Lori and her husband Brett, with her father Harry and all their family. Janie's love and warmth, beauty, courage and spirit will remain in all our hearts. Adele Suslak and Family
        GOLDMAN-Janis Meresman. Full of love, humor and warmth, you played a very special and irreplaceable role in our lives. You were and still will be a part of our daily thoughts. Aunt, we will miss you and always remember your special spirit. Craig, Jennifer, Gabriel, Roger and Sloan
      