
        VEREBAY-Max, died peacefully at home on December 29th, 1998 at age 85. Beloved husband of Mollie, father of Hildi & Leonard, grandfather of Alyssa, Andi, Wendi, Brad and Amy. Service Sunday, at 12:30, at Beth Israel Memorial Chapel, Atlantic Ave., Delray, FL. Memorial contributions may be made to UJA Federation.
        VEREBAY-Max. We observe with great sadness the passing of Max Verebay, age 85, one of the founders of Queens Group, Inc. From the earliest days at Brooklyn Tech with his lifelong partner Martin Kaltman, to the founding of Kaltman Press in New York City in 1932, and on to partnership with Jack Hecht and the evolution to Queens Litho, Max brought his innate technical and creative engineering skills to their growing enterprise. His technical innovations and unique modifications of manufacturing processes helped to grow and secure for the company a prominent place as a leading producer of packaging for recorded music. He took great pleasure in designing numerous factories for the company and homes for members of his family, and never lost the interest in architecture that he developed in high school. In the last decade of his life, Max refocussed his energies from business to his personal life and interests. He enjoyed many creative pursuits, which he shared with Mollie, his beloved wife, to whom he would have been married 62 years next March. He was an accomplished amateur violin player and a prolific sculptor, working in stone at his home studio. All of us at Queens Group extend our condolences to his family: to his wife Mollie, his son Lenny and daughter-in-law Jodi, his daughter Hildi and son-in-law Walter, and his six grandchildren. While we mourn his passing, we celebrate the long and wonderful life of this man who followed his own path, our friend, Max. Funeral Sunday, January 3, 12:30 PM, Beth Israel Rubin Memorial Chapel, 5808 West Atlantic Avenue, Delray, Florida.
        VEREBAY-Max. The Board of Directors & staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Max Verebay, loving husband, father, and grandfather. Our sympathies are extended to his wife, Mollie; his son, Leonard, and Leonard's wife, Jodi Verebay; and his daughter, Hildi, and Hildi's husband, Walter Black; and to Max's grandchildren. Max was a generous supporter of UJA-Federation's Planned Giving & Endowments Dept. His unique gift of a rare Stradivarius violin will be long remembered. We offer our deepest condolences to his entire family & all those whose lives he has touched. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair, James S. Tisch, President, Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        VEREBAY-Max. Max Verebay, died on December 29, Boca Raton Florida. A friend, a mentor and our partner. He was a brilliant, dedicated and creative man. He enriched the lives of all those he touched. We extend our condolences to his wife Mollie, his children Hildi and Walter Black, Jodi and Leonard Verebay, and his grandchildren. Rosalie & Martin, Marnee & Eric
      