
        CHERNE-Leo. Died peacefully Monday night at Mount Sinai Hospital after a long illness at age 86. Devoted father of Gail Gambino, the wife of Dr. Richard Gambino, grandfather of Erica Lynn Gambino, and brother of Jack Cherne. Leo's wife Phyllis died in 1995. Family services will be held Thursday, January 14, at 11AM, at The Jewish Center of the Hamptons, East Hampton, LI. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, February 3rd, at 3:30PM at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 81st and Madison Avenue. In lieu of flowers contributions in Leo's memory may be made to The Leo Cherne Refugee Emergency Fund, c/o The International Rescue Committee, 122 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10168.
        CHERNE-Leo. The Board of Directors, the staff and the worldwide family of the International Rescue Committee (IRC) are deeply saddened by the death of our Chairman Emeritus who joined our Board in 1946 and served as Chairman from 1951 to 1991. Leo achieved eminence as an economist, attorney, editor, political scientist, sculptor, educator, author, and as an advisor to U.S. Presidents starting with Franklin Roosevelt. But he often said that the over-riding ''passion'' among his activities was his work for refugees and the cause of human freedom. Many governments decorated Leo for his leadership of IRC and the refugee cause. Among those honors was the highest award a U.S. President can confer upon a civilian: the United States Medal of Freedom. The citation by President Reagan, in 1984, included the following passage: ''Since the 1930's, Leo Cherne has stepped forward with brilliance, energy and moral passion and helped this nation overcome countless challenges. His lifetime devotion to aiding his country and to serving the cause of human freedom, especially through his work on behalf of refugees, reflects the strong and generous character of a man who deserves the respect and gratitude of all Americans.'' To Leo's daughter, Gail Gambino, her husband Dr. Richard Gambino, his granddaughter Erica Lynn Gambino, and his brother, Jack Cherne, we express our heartfelt sympathy. John C. Whitehead, Chairman Winston Lord, Vice Chairman Liv Ullmann, Vice Chairman International James C. Strickler, Chairman, Executive Committee Charles Sternberg, Secretary Reynold Levy, President Robert P. DeVecchi, President Emeritus International Rescue Committee
        CHERNE-Leo. The Board of Trustess and friends of Freedom House mourn the death of Leo Cherne. As an Officer for over 40 years, Leo inspired our efforts on behalf of political freedom and civil liberties all over the world. Freedom's advocates have suffered a great loss. Bette Bao Lord, Chairman
        CHERNE-Leo. Leo, my friend, I speak to you on behalf of the forgotten. The starving Cambodian child, the terrified Kurdish mother in hiding, the Bosnian fleeing genocide. For the thousands you saved, thank you. Sleep well. Jay Schulberg
      