
        HOWE-Robert E. Died Monday January 4th at Saint Peter's University Hospital, New Brunswick, New Jersey. He was born in Brooklyn, NY on September 16, 1930, son of Edward H. Howe and Anna Coyle. Mr. Howe was a resident of Old Bridge, New Jersey for the past 37 years. He was a communicant of St. Ambrose Parish in Old Bridge, as well as a member of the Knights of Columbus and the American Legion. He was a member of the Lake Naomi Club in Pocono Pines, PA and a parishioner of Our Lady of the Lake Church. He served in the United States Naval Reserve from 1948 to 1953. Mr. Howe retired from William H. McGee and Co., New York in January of 1997 after 50 years of service. He held numerous positions within the company throughout his career. He was promoted to Executive Vice President in 1979, President and Chief Operations Officer in 1989 and President and Chief Executive Officer in 1991. He served as Vice Chairman from 1995 to 1997. ''Bob's story is the kind of success tale that books and plays are made of. He started in the mail room and worked his way up to the CEO of this well respected Marine Insurance Company,'' said Vincent Papa, current McGee Chairman. In addition to serving as President of various McGee companies, he also was a member of the Board of Directors of numerous industry organizations. These included Director and Chairman of the Inland Marine Underwriters Association, Director, National Cargo Bureau, Director of the Hull Syndicate and Director of A.I.M.U. Mr. Howe was also a member of the American Institute of Marine Underwriters and the Water Quality Syndicate. ''Bob was a mentor for many of us here at McGee imparting on us his underwriting and business skills. He was a great insurance man and friend,'' recounted George Spagnolo, Vice President of McGee. Mr. Howe is predeceased by his wife of 48 years, Johanna in April of 1998. Surviving is a son, Robert F. Howe of Colts Neck, NJ, three daughters, Barbara Borretsky, Joan Kibbler and Marianne Jarvis, all of Old Bridge, and seven grandchildren; two brothers, Donald Howe of Staten Island, Joseph Howe of North Bellmore, Long Island, and a sister, Loretta Scancarello, of Brooklyn, New York. Funeral services will be Thursday at 9:00am at the Michael Hegarty Funeral Home, 3377 US Hwy 9 N, Old Bridge, NJ, followed by a 10:00 am Mass at St. Ambrose R.C. Church, Old Bridge. Burial will be in Holy Cross Burial Park, Cranbury Rd, East Brunswick, NJ. Visiting hours Tuesday-Wednesday 2-4 PM and 7-9 PM. Donations in memory of Mr. Howe can be made to St. Peter's University Hospital, c/o The Foundation Dept at 254 Easton Avenue, New Brunswick, N.J.
      