
        DURBIN-Elizabeth. 62. Of NYC and Shelter Island. Suddenly, on January 25. Beloved wife of Seymour Weissman. Loving grandmother of Zachary, Vanessa, Hannah, Jenna, Kyle, Laura and Nicholas, stepmother of Judy, Eric, David and Adam. Cherished daughter of Marjorie. Sister of Jocelyn and Geoffrey. Courageously outspoken in defense of the vulnerable, humanist, Professor of Economics at NYU's Wagner Graduate School of Public Service for nearly 30 years. She was a devoted friend, colleague and teacher to many, and a caring, compassionate and generous person. She will be missed by all who knew her. Services on Friday, January 29th, 12 noon at ''The Riverside'' West 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, donations to Shelter Island Senior Council, Shelter Island, New York 11964.
        DURBIN-Elizabeth. The dean, faculty, students and alumni of the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at NYU mourn the sudden passing of our esteemed colleague. Professor Durbin received her B.A. and M.A. from Oxford University, and her Ph.D. in Economics from Columbia University, as well as numerous academic honors, including a Fulbright Travel Grant and President's Fellowship from Columbia University. In addition to serving with distinction at NYU, Professor Durbin served as visiting professor to the Ukrainian Academy of Public Administration, the University of Rome and Bocconi University in Milan. A social activist and a champion of the rights of women and minorities, she devoloped an innovative curriculum on the role of women in management in the public sector at the Wagner School, and served as a convenor of the Children and Families at Risk in the City project at the NYU Taub Urban Research Center. She wrote extensively on the issues of poverty and welfare, and the political struggles of the British Labour Party. Her most recent book, ''New Jersualems: The Labour Party and the Economics of Democratic Socialism,'' chronicled the British Labour movement through the 1930s, and in the post-war era. Her late father, Evan Durbin, was a Labour Party Member of Parliament and one of the leaders of a group of Labour Party economists who helped design the party's platform that was carried out by the post-war Labour government.
        DURBIN-Elizabeth. The Fund for the Advancement of Social Services mourns the loss of our Board member, a staunch advocate for social justice. Our deep sympathies go to Liz's husband, Sy, and family.
      