
        BRODSKY-Irving. Of Rye, N.Y. Passed away on January 17, 1999. He was a gentle and compassionate man who dedicated his life to helping others. He is survived by his wife, Jeanne, his son, Robert, and his wife, Karin, his precious grandchildren, Jake and Olivia, as well as caring extended family and many dear friends. Services will be held on January 20, 1999, at 10 A.M. at the Rye Community Synagogue, 200 Forest Ave, Rye, NY. The family is requesting that donations be sent to the Irving Brodsky Scholarship Fund of the Block-Hexter Vacation of the Associated Camps, Inc., 197 E. Broadway, NY, NY 10002. For additional information, please call Zion Memorial Chapel, 1-914-381-1809.
        BRODSKY-Irving. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Irving Brodsky, an outstanding Jewish communal leader who devoted his life to helping others. As the former executive director of Associated Camps, Inc., and the YM-YWHA's of Greater New York, both beneficiary agencies, he set new standards of leadership, and earned the admiration and respect of the entire community. He was one of the most significant professionals of his generation who left a very rich and profoundly important legacy. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Jeanne; his son, Robert, and daughter-in-law, Karin; and his grandchildren, Jacob and Olivia. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        BRODSKY-Irving. The Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Repertory Theatre note with great sadness the passing of Irving Brodsky. We have lost a most treasured friend and dedicated supporter. Irving was a great inspiration, full of warmth and wisdom which he imparted with grace and kindness to all. We shall miss him every day. We extend our sincerest condolences to his loving wife Jeanne and the family. Evelyn G. Clyman, President
        BRODSKY-Irving. The Board and Staff of Camp Poyntelle-Lewis Village sadly acknowledge the loss of Irving Brodsky, a respected Board Member. Irving was instrumental in the success of Camp PoyntelleLewis Village. We extend our sympathies to Irving's wife Jeanne and son Robert and his family.
      