
        PASMANTIER-Catharine Margaret. The Board of Directors of The Fund For Blood and Cancer Research deeply mourns the passing of Catharine Margaret Pasmantier, our newsletter editor and the wife of our co-chairman, Dr. Mark W. Pasmantier. She was the paradigm of selfless devotion to serving the needs of her community. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Mark; her children, Elizabeth, James and Meredith; her parents, William and Catharine Sitterley; her sister, Beth Newman; and her brother, William Sitterly, Jr. Morton Coleman, M.D., Co-Chairman PASMANTIER-Catherine Margaret. Died on January 7th, 1999 at the age of 56 after a brief illness. Beloved wife of Dr. Mark Pasmantier. Devoted mother of Elizabeth, James and Meredith. Loving daughter of William and Catherine Sitterley; and sister of Mrs. Lawrence Newman and William Sitterley, Jr. She resided in Ridgewood, New Jersey, and was active in many community activities amongst which were the Family Counseling Service, College Club, and the Center for Electronic Learning. Memorial services will be held on Thursday, January 21 at 5 P.M. at the Unitarian Church of All Souls, 1157 Lexington Ave at 80 Street. Donations in Margaret's memory may be made to the Family Counseling Service of Ridgewood and/or the Fund for Blood and Cancer Research. PASMANTIER-Catherine Margaret. The physicians of The Association of Practicing Physicians of The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center extend their deepest sympathy and condolences to Dr. Mark Pasmantier and his family on the loss of their beloved wife and mother Catherine Margaret Pasmantier. Mrs. Pasmantier worked tirelessly as a volunteer at The New York Hospital and both Dr. and Mrs. Pasmantier were major influences in the life of our hospital and medical college. We will miss her warm presence. Assn. Of Practicing Physicians PASMANTIER-Catherine Margaret. With great sadness the Faculty and staff of the Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology and the Department of Medicine of Weill Medical College of Cornell University extend our condolences to Dr. Mark Pasmantier, his family and friends on the recent death of his wife Catherine Margaret. PASMANTIER-Catherine Margaret. With great sadness the Oncology Care Team at New York Presbyterian Hospital-Weill Cornell Medical Center extends our deepest sympathy to Dr. Mark Pasmantier and his family over the recent loss of his wife Catherine Margaret.
      