
        GOLDMAN - Janis Meresman. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation express our profound condolences to the family of our fellow director, Helaine Barnett on the loss of her beloved sister, Janie and to their father Harry Meresman, one of our founding directors and to our emeritus director, Victor Barnett. Janie was a spiritual force who inspired everyone she met with a deep commitment to family and a concern for the Jewish future. We will cherish our time with her. Robert S. Rifkind, Chair Eli N. Evans, President
        GOLDMAN - Janis Meresman. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved sister of its esteemed member, Mrs. Helaine Barnett, and sister-in-law of its Honorary President, Mr. Victor Barnett, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres., David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President
        GOLDMAN-Janis Meresman. My life was blessed to have had such an extraordinary sister whose love, devotion, support, caring and sharing knew no bounds. She became an integral and loving part of Victor, Craig and Roger's lives as my family grew and brought special meaning of indescribable togetherness to the word sisters. Janie's unbelievable courage was an inspiration to us all. You will be forever in my heart. Laine.
        GOLDMAN-Janis Meresman. Our warmest thoughts and sympathy are with our sister-in-law and aunt Lainie, with Victor and all the family, and with Janie's beloved husband, Michael and loving daughters Melissa and Lori and her husband Brett, with her father Harry and all their family. Janie's love and warmth, beauty, courage and spirit will remain in all our hearts. Adele Suslak and Family
        GOLDMAN-Janis Meresman. My dear friend. So many of our shared experiences were enriched by your keen mind and infectious sense of humor. Whether in the hills of Lausanne and Florence, or times together in New York, your presence always defined the moment. Rest in peace, dearest Janie. Sherry Koplin
        GOLDMAN-Janis Meresman. Full of love, humor and warmth, you played a very special and irreplaceable role in our lives. You were and still will be a part of our daily thoughts. Aunt, we will miss you and always remember your special spirit. Craig, Jennifer, Gabriel, Roger and Sloan
      