
        CORSER-Paul. We, the Board of Directors and Staff of the American Foundation for AIDS Research, mourn the loss of our most esteemed colleague and valued friend, Paul Corser, due to AIDS-related complications. A determined warrior in the struggle against AIDS, Paul never lost sight of the needs of people living with HIV/AIDS and was an invaluable inspiration to AmFAR's continuing efforts to bring an end to the AIDS epidemic. His unswerving dedication, rare intelligence, and unfailingly good nature will be sorely missed. As Program Officer, Paul oversaw AmFAR's grantmaking program and in-house activities in clinical research, behavioral sciences, and scientific publications. He previously directed AmFAR's pathbreaking community-based clinical trials program, achieving the creation of a nationwide network of clinical trial centers, and served as associate editor of AmFAR's AIDS/HIV Treatment Directory. Paul also served on the Board of the Lower East Side Harm Reduction Center. Our love and deepest condolences go to Paul's wife, Sally Morrison, and to his family. American Foundation for AIDS Research (AmFAR) Elizabeth Taylor National Founding Chairman Mathilde Krim, Ph.D Founding Co-Chair Jerome J. Radwin Chief Executive Officer and the entire Board of Directors and Staff of AmFAR
        CORSER-Paul. The boards and staffs of our community based clinical trials sights mourn the profound loss to the struggle against AIDS with the death of our friend and colleague Paul Corser. The intelligence, skill, and commitment Paul brought to the effort to end the AIDS epidemic was unequaled, and we will especially miss his counsel and support as we work to develop the community based research agenda which he helped us build for so many years. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Sally Morrison, his family and the staff and board at AmFAR. We know his example will sustain you in your grief as it will sustain us. Rest in peace, Paul. Your work will continue. Jane Shull, Jay R. Kostman, Philadelphia FIGHT Julie Marston, Cal Cohen, CRI, New England Rick Siclari, Al Stein, Community AIDS Resource, Fla. Gary Johnson, James Stanford, Kansas City AIDS Research Consortium
        CORSER-Paul. Of New York, NY died peacefully at home on January 4. Through his work for The American Foundation for AIDS Research (AmFAR) and other organizations, his legacy of compassion and hope will continue. A memorial service will be held at a time and place to be determined. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to AmFAR, 100 Wall Street, 13th Floor, New York, NY 10005; TAG 200 East 10th Street #
      