
        FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam. Equitable Bag Company mourns the passing of Miriam FreundRosenthal, beloved mother of our Chairman of the Board, Harry Freund. Our sincere sympathies are extended to her family and many friends.
        FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Miriam Freund-Rosenthal, a cherished friend and fervent supporter of the Jewish community. She was the beloved mother of Harry Freund, a dedicated leader of UJA-Federation who emulates his mother's concern for Jewish causes. We extend our deepest condolences to Harry and his wife, Matta; Mrs. Freund-Rosenthal's son, Matthew, and his wife, Blanche; her nine grandchildren; and ten great grandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam. Alpha Epsilon Phi Sorority mourns the loss of our cherished alumna. Mrs. Freund-Rosenthal was a member of Zeta Chapter at New York University. Her commitment to Jewish causes, involvement in Jewish organizations, and support of education, resulted in her becoming the first recipient of our prestigious Susan Rudd Cohen Award for Jewish Communal Service. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family and friends. Lynna Taylor Klaidman, National President Bonnie Rubenstein Wunsch, Executive Director
        FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam. Balfour Investors Inc. mourns the passing of the beloved mother of its Chairman and founder, Harry I. Freund. She was a true ''woman of valor''. Her courage, philanthropy and love of her family and Israel will serve as an inspiration to future generations. We extend our sincerest condolences to Harry and Matta, Matthew and Blanche, their children and grandchildren. May they be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Jay S. Goldsmith, President
        FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of Miriam Freund-Rosenthal, an outstanding figure in Jewish Communal Life, and a great lover of Jerusalem. To her son, Harry, a former Jerusalem Foundation Board Member and to all her family, we extend our deep condolences. Alvin H. Einbender, Nat'l Chrmn Teddy Kollek, International Council Chairman Ruth Cheshin, Internat'l President Sandra Rubin, Executive Director
      