
        TANNENWALD-Judge Theodore, Jr. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion records with profound sorrow the sudden death of Judge Theodore Tannenwald, Jr., who for more than four decades served the Hebrew Union College with distinction as a Governor and former Chair of its Board of Governors. He helped guide the College-Institute during a period of far reaching decisions and he offered his wise counsel and his astute perspective with unstinting zeal. Eminent jurist and public servant, he showed singular excellence in his legal career and exemplary commitment to high government office. He was a man who was highly esteemed for the invaluable assistance and unflagging dedication he rendered to Israel during its earliest days of statehood. We offer our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Selma (Pete), his sons, Peter and Robert, and his daughters-in-law, Carol and Leslie, and grandchildren, Alan, David and Jonathan. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman, Pres. Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
        TANNENWALD - Theodore, Jr. The officers, members and staff of the American Jewish Committee mourn the death of Senior Judge Theodore Tannenwald, Jr. of the U.S. Tax Court, a brilliant legal mind, a dedicated public servant, and a long time friend of AJC. Judge Tannenwald was a member of AJC's Board of Governors and National Executive Council, and also served as chair of AJC's National Advisory Panel and Israel Committee. Deeply devoted to the well-being of the Jewish community at home and abroad, he made several trips to Israel throughout the 1960's and '70's with AJC leadership delegations as well as traveling on an extensive AJC mission to South America. We send our sincere condolences to his grieving family. Bruce M. Ramer, President David A. Harris, Executive Dir.
      