
        BUCKLIN-Edward Robbins (Ted). Passed away in Millbrook, NY on January 6th, 1999. He was born in Los Angeles on January 28th, 1921, and lived his first thirty-two years in Pasadena, Calif. He attended The Thacher School in Ojai, and graduated from Yale University in 1942. He served as an Officer in the Army Air Corps during World War II and was Co-Pilot of a B-29 at the time the war ended. For several years, he worked at the Title Insurance and Trust Co in Los Angeles and at 20th Century Fox. In 1953, he moved to NYC to work for The New York Trust Co. and its successor, Chemical Bank, from which he retired in the mid 1980's. He had lived on his ''farm'' in Millbrook, New York, since his retirement. For many years he was Secretary of the Boys Club of New York. Ted was well known by his many friends as an avid photographer who loved to share his photos. He traveled extensively in Africa and brought back many wonderful stories to go along with his collection of both films and photographs. Ted is survived by two sons, Edward R. (Rob) Bucklin, Jr. (Tina) and Timothy Schauffler Bucklin (Julia), both of whom live in Millbrook. He is also survived by his former wife and good friend, Julie Schauffler Bucklin of Sharon, Conn. He was the loving brother of John J. Bucklin of Pasadena and William N. Bucklin, III of San Francisco. Ted leaves two grandchildren, Taylor Bucklin and Sophia Bucklin, and fourteen nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held on January 22, 1999, 11AM at his home on Canoe Hill Road, Millbrook, New York. Donations in lieu of flowers, may be made to The Boys Club of New York, 287 East 10 Street, New York, N.Y. 10009, or the Ohana Scholarship Fund at Camp Lanakila, Fairlee, Vermont 05045. BUCKLIN - Edward R. The Trustees, Women's Board and Staff of The Boys' Club of New York express their deepest sympathy to the family of their dear friend, Ted Bucklin. He served as Trustee of the Club for 28 years and he will be remembered by us all with deep affection.
      