
        BELIN-David W. Beloved husband of Barbara. Adoring and devoted father of Jon, Jim, Joy, Tom and Laurie. Proud grandfather of Janet and step father of Lee and Jenifer. Loving brother of Daniel Belin of CA. and loving father-inlaw of Dr. Anne Coleman and Bruce Kramer. Passed away on Sunday, January 17. The funeral will be held Wednesday, January 20 in Des Moines, IA. at Temple B'Nai Jeshurun at 10AM. Friends can pay their respects on Saturday and Sunday, January 23rd. and 24th at their New York City home. You'll be forever in our hearts. A memorial service in New York City will be announced at a later date.
        BELIN-David. The Jewish Foundation for the Righteous deeply mourns the death of David Belin, a Board member since our founding. David Belin's commitment to our mission of caring for Christians who risked their lives to rescue Jews in the Holocaust was total, but in his wisdom he encouraged us to look forward as well as back, and generously supported the broadening of our mandate to include education about the role of Righteous Gentiles in the Holocaust. We will miss his wise counsel and his warm presence, and we send our deepest condolences to his wife, Barbara Ross Belin, his children, and his entire family. Harvey Schulweis, Chairman Paul Goldberger, Chairman-elect Stanlee Stahl, Executive Director
        BELIN-David. I know that David Belin's colleagues on the staff of the Warren Commission were stunned and saddened to learn of his death. Those of us who worked with David are indebted to him for his contributions to the the Warren Report and for his determined efforts to rebut the pernicious distortions that have been directed against the Report for over 30 years. David was an effective spokesperson for the truth. Norman Redlich, Assistant Counsel, President's Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy, 1963-1964
        BELIN-David W. The Officers, Board of Trustees, and staff of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations profoundly mourn the death of our esteemed Honorary Vice Chairman. A distinguished attorney and communal leader, David served as Founding Chairman of Reform Judaism's Outreach Commission and led it with great devotion. We extend deepest condolences to his wife, Barbara, his children and all his loved ones. Jerome H. Somers, Chairman Rabbi Eric H. Yoffie, President Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, President Emeritus
      