
        GOLDSTEIN-Leon M. The City College of New York mourns the passing of President Leon M. Goldstein of Kingsborough Community College, who was also a distinguished alumnus of CCNY. Under his leadership, Kingsborough became one of the nation's most innovative and successful community colleges. President Goldstein also rendered valuable service to CUNY as Acting Chancellor and in other important positions. On behalf of the City College community, I wish to extend my deepest sympathy to his family. Yolanda T. Moses, President The City College of New York/ CUNY
        GOLDSTEIN-Leon M. The Polytechnic University community mourns the passing of Leon Goldstein, president of Kingsborough Comunity College for the past 28 years and our esteemed and cherished partner in an affiliation between our two institutions. He will be remembered as a dynamic leader and innovator and as a man of wisdom and vision. We extend our condolences to his beloved family and colleagues. Dr. David C. Chang President, Polytechnic University Arthur C. Martinez Chairman, Board of Trustees Polytechnic University
        GOLDSTEIN-Leon M. The Board of Directors and the entire membership of the National Organization of Italian American Women are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend, Leon M. Goldstein. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Mary, and his son, Michael, and daughter, Lisa. Leon will remain in our hearts forever. Patricia Misasi, President Aileen Riotto Sirey, Chairwoman
        GOLDSTEIN-Leon M. The Kingsborough Community College Foundation deeply mourns the passing of its President and Founder, Leon M. Goldstein. Through his extraordinary efforts the Foundation has been able to provide scholarships and awards to students based upon academic merit. He will be missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Hy Cohen, Chair KCC Foundation
        GOLDSTEIN-Leon. The Manhattan Beach Community Group extends its condolences to the family of President Leon Goldstein and to his extended family at Kingsborough Community College. We will always appreciate the fine institution that he created in our midst and its policy of being a considerate neighbor in our community. Dana Borell, President
        GOLDSTEIN-Leon M. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of colleague and friend Leon M. Goldstein, president of Kingsborough Community College. Vernon E. Lattin, President Brooklyn College
      