
        SCHREIBER-Aaron M. Dear husband of Esther, beloved father of Joel (Judy), Simeon (Rose) and David (Dassie), cherished grandfather of Paula Lev, Jacob, Tobi Fein, Miriam Skydell, Avram, Doniel, David, Avi and Blanche and proud great-grandfather of 21 great-grandchildren. A devoted and proud Jew who was an outstanding model of Jewish values to his entire family. Funeral at the Boulevard Funeral Home, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI. Shiva will be observed at the home of David Schreiber, 828 Addison St., Woodmere, NY through Sunday morning.
        SCHREIBER-Aaron M. The offices, directors and the employees of A.H. Schreiber Company regretfully record the passing, in his 91st year, of the Chairman of the Board, Aaron M. Schreiber. His warm counsel, charitable deeds and business acumen will be missed by all who knew him. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Esther, his three sons, Joel, Simeon and David, their spouses, children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren, his sister, Pearl Pincus and to the entire family he leaves behind. Funeral services Monday, January 18, at ''The Boulevard,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, NY, at 10:30 AM. Shiva will be observed at the home of Dassy and David Schreiber, 828 Addison Street, Woodmere, NY 11598. May his wife, sons and sister be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.
        SCHREIBER-Aaron M. The Officers, Directors and Staff of the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach note with profound sorrow the passing of Mr. Aaron M. Schreiber A'H, beloved father of our esteemed past President and Chairman of the Board, Rabbi David Schreiber. May the Almighty console the bereaved family with the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Dr. Armin H. Friedman, Dean Emeritus Rabbi Dr. Heshy T. Glass, Principal Hillel Davis and Stuart Samuels, Presidium Rabbi Zvi H. Friedman, Executive Director
        SCHREIBER-Aaron M. We mourn the passing of the revered father of our President, Rabbi David Schreiber. His involvement with all Jewish causes and in particular Taharat Hamishpacha, Jewish Family Purity, will be truly missed. Congregation Mikveh South Shore Rabbi Dr. Seymour Hirschman and Mrs. Eva Hirschman
      