
        TISHMAN-Rita V. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Rita V. Tishman, a dedicated philanthropist and cherished leader in the Jewish community. As someone who devoted her life to Jewish and civic causes, she earned the admiration and respect of the entire community. She served as a distinguished member of the boards of United Jewish Appeal and the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, predecessors of UJA-Federation of New York. Through her remarkable commitment, she served as an inspiring role model for an extraordinary philanthropic family that has emulated her compassion and concern. We extend our sincerest condolences to her daughters, Margot T. Linton and Valerie T. Diker; her son, Peter V. Tishman; her ten grandchildren; eleven great-grandchildren; and the entire Tishman family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        TISHMAN-Rita V. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of our benefactor, Rita V. Tishman, mother of Valerie Tishman Diker, distinguished member of the NJOP Board of Directors. Valerie and Charles Diker were early supporter of NJOP who had the vision to appreciate the vital work needed to be done, and they continue to play a key role in NJOP's efforts to assure a Jewish future for American Jewry. Sincere condolences to the entire family. Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchwald, Dir.
        TISHMAN-Rita. The Officers, Board and staff of The National Museum of the American Indian mourn the passing of Rita Tishman, philanthropist and beloved mother of Valerie Tishman Diker, Co-Chair of the Board of Directors of the NMAI's George Gustav Heye Center and member of its International Founders Council. W. Richard West, Director John L. Colonghi, National Campaign Director National Museum of the American Indian
        TISHMAN-Rita V. Esteemed Vice President of our Board of Directors, beloved benefactor, cherished friend, we shall miss your wise counsel and generosity of spirit. Your grace and compassion will forever remain a beacon for the ''Hard of Seeing'' worldwide. We exend our heartfelt condolences to all members of the Tishman family. Lorraine Marchi, CEO National Association for Visually Handicapped
        TISHMAN-Rita V. The A.D.L. Women's Division Board mourns the death of our Honorary Chair, Rita V. Tishman. Rita's love and support was a source of strength and pride through the years. Her spirit will live on. Audrey Magid, Chair Rhoda W. Korman, Director
      