
        WILLIAMS-Edward P., 92, of Crosstrees Hill Rd, Essex, CT died Monday, February 1. He was the husband of Linda Perkins Williams. He was born in Cleveland, OH on January 2, 1907, son of the late Edward and Mary (Raymond) Williams, grandson of Edward Porter Williams co-founder of Sherwin Williams. He grew up in Cleveland, OH and attended Univ School in Cleveland, the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, CT, Yale Univ, and then Harvard Business School. He worked at Sherwin Williams from 1932-39 then Prescott Paint Companies in various capacities from 1939-1942. He worked for the War Production Board's Salvage Branch at the outset of W.W. II. During W.W. II he served in Italy as a Lieutenant in the Army Air Corps. 1948-1949 he worked for the National Security Council, then for the International Security Agency Committee (ISAC), a small group within the Economic Cooperation Adm (ECA) charged with administering the Marshall Plan. In the early 1950's he moved to CT. and bought controlling interest in the Conn Water Co, where he served as President and CEO until 1972. In retirement he and his wife became avid world travelers, along with their children when possible. He visited remote parts of Africa on several occasions, Borneo, Australia, the Amazon, Antarctica, and many parts of the U.S. and Europe. He was an enthusiastic cinematographer, who enjoyed making and showing movies of places he had explored. When not traveling, he was active in community affairs in Essex, CT. and summer communities in Gloucester, MA and Blue Hill, ME. He was active in support of many social causes including family planning, reducing world overpopulation, preserving the environment, and encouraging sound budgetary policy. He published his memoirs, ''A Varied Career'' in 1998. In addition to his many other talents, he was a kind, loving husband, father & friend. He will be deeply missed by all. Besides his wife Linda, he is survived by his son Timothy Williams of Arlington, VA, his daughter Lindy Williams of Ithaca, New York & one grandchild. Memorial on Saturday, February 6, 11:30 AM at Essex Congregational, Prospect Street, Essex, CT.
      