
        KAJI-Deepak, M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai NYU Medical Center and Health System deeply mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Deepak Kaji, M.D., Associate Professor of Medicine and Chief of the Renal Section at our affiliated institution, the Bronx Veterans Affairs Medical Center, who was associated with Mount Sinai for more than two decades. Born in Bombay, India, Dr. Kaji received his medical degree from the University of Bombay. He joined the the Bronx VA Medical Center as a resident in 1972, trained there as a fellow in renal medicine, and was appointed Chief of the Renal Clinic in 1980. He joined the faculty of Mount Sinai School of Medicine in 1976, and quickly gained the respect and admiration of colleagues, students and patients as an accomplished scientific investigator, an insightful teacher and a compassionate physician. A prolific researcher and writer, Dr. Kaji authored more than 40 journal articles, book chapters, abstracts and presentations. He was a member of numerous professional societies, including the American Physiological Society, the American Federation of Clinical Research, and the American and International Societies of Nephrology. He also was the recipient of numerous honors including Fellowships from the American College of Physicians and the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada, and the Excellence in Research Award for Faculty from the Bronx VA Medical Center Department of Medicine. Dr. Kaji will be remembered warmly and he will be sorely missed. We extend sincere condolences to his wife, to his children and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Theresa A. Bischoff, Executive Vice President Alan L. Schiller, M.D., President, Medical Board
        KAJI-Deepak, Dr. The Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine and the Division of Renal Disease of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, mourn the untimely and premature passing of a revered colleague. Dr. Kaji had served on our Faculty for 23 years, and rose to the rank of Associate Professor of Medicine and Acting Chief of the Renal Division at the Veteran's Administration Medical Center, Bronx, New York. He was a distinguished Scientist and Investigator who made major contributions to the fields of Kidney and Cellular Physiology, and whose work was continuously supported by U.S. Government Grants. Dr. Kaji was a compassionate, skilled physician who was held in highest esteem by colleagues, House Staff and students for his warmth, integrity, clinical acumen, his overall scholarly approach and his commitment to teaching. Dr. Kaji's passing represents a profound loss to academic and clinical medicine and to all who knew him. We convey our deepest sympathy to his family, friends and colleagues. Barry S. Coller, M.D. Murray M. Rosenberg Professor of Medicine Chairman, The Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine Mount Sinai Medical Center Paul E. Klotman, M.D. Irene and Dr. Arthur M. Fishberg Professor of Medicine Chief, Division of Nephrology Mount Sinai Medical Center
      