
        ROBINSON-George M.D. On February 24. Dr. Robinson is survived by his wife, Arline Bakal Robinson, three children, Marjorie Williams, Susanna Kaminsky and James Robinson. A son, Kevin Robinson, predeceased him. He is survived by six grandchildren, Cheyenne, Andrew, Lauren, Jasper, Jeffrey and Sara. Father-in law of Bruce Kaminsky and Subha Robinson. Dr. Robinson is also survived by a brother, Dr. Franklin Robinson of New Haven, Funeral services at Congregation EmanuEl of Westchester, Westchester Avenue, Rye, NY, Monday, March 1, 10 AM.
        ROBINSON-George, M.D. The President and Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the passing of George Robinson, M.D., an esteemed colleague and friend. An internationally respected cardiac surgeon and gifted teacher, Dr. Robinson instituted the cardiothoracic surgery program at Montefiore in 1956 and served as its chief until 1987. A devoted teacher, he was director of the cardiac surgery residency training program, which he began in 1963. Dr. Robinson did pioneering work in the areas of valvular and congenital heart disease and bypass surgery; was influential in the development of cardiac pacemaking, and wrote a definitive book on informed consent. A man of many talents, he was an avid sailor, skiier, and horseman, and became an accomplished photographer during his retirement. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his dear wife, Arline; his children, James, Susanna and Marjorie; his six grandchildren and entire family. Spencer Foreman, M.D., President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        ROBINSON-George, M.D. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Dr. George Robinson, our former Chief of Cardiothoracic Surgery. Dr. Robinson upheld our finest traditions of medical excellence and clinical care and was an invaluable colleague and mentor. He is survived by his wife Arline and his children Marjorie Williams, Susanna Kaminsky, and James Robinson, to whom we offer our profound condolences. Lawrence S. Huntington Chairman of the Board Sigurd H. Ackerman, MD President Carlton Boxhill, MD President of the Medical Board
      