
        CARLSON-Curtis L. Minnesota entrepreneur. Founder of Carlson Companies. Mr. Carlson died Friday, February 19, after suffering a stroke on February 10. He was 84. He retained and enjoyed an active role as company chairman until his last day. Born July 9, 1914, in Minneapolis, Mr. Carlson was recognized for his generosity, integrity and entrepreneurial spirit. Known worldwide as the ''ultra-entrepreneur'', he founded the Gold Bond Stamp Company in 1938 with a $55 loan and a desire to succeed. After World War II, the business grew dramatically. Two-thirds of American households saved stamps, and Gold Bond captured about one-third of the market. Mr. Carlson's ''Horatio Alger'' qualities were key to the continued expansion of his business, which has become one of the largest privatelyheld companies in the world. To reflect its global expansion and diversification, the corporation became Carlson Companies, Inc., in 1973. Today, Carlson Companies is an international leader in providing hospitality, travel and marketing services and solutions to corporate clients and consumers. The company operates in more than 140 countries. Its brands employ 160,000 people worldwide and generated more than $22 billion in systemwide revenues in 1998. Carlson Companies brands and services include Regent International Hotels, Radisson Hotels Worldwide, Country Inns & Suites By Carlson, Radisson Seven Seas Cruises, T.G.I. Friday's restaurants, Carlson Leisure Group (leisure travel) and Carlson Marketing Group, the largest relationship marketing company in the world. In 1997, Mr. Carlson was instrumental in establishing a global partnership with Accor of Paris, which combined the business travel interests of both companies under the name Carlson Wagonlit Travel. A 1938 graduate of the University of Minnesota, Mr. Carlson was a staunch supporter of his alma mater. In 1986, he made a $25 million gift to the university, at that time the largest single gift ever given to a public university. To recognize his contributions, the university renamed its school of management the Curtis L. Carlson School of Management. He and Arleen (Martin) met at the university and were married in 1938. Together, the couple was devoted to strengthening family bonds with their children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and many nieces and nephews. Mr. Carlson's honors include the prestigious Linnean Medal, Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, presented by H.M. Carl XVI Gustaf, King of Sweden; the Viking Baron Award from the American Swedish Cultural Foundation; the Horatio Alger Award; the Swedish-American of the Year Award, Stockholm, Sweden, in 1981; the Town and Country magazine ''Philanthropist of the Year'' Award, 1987-1988; the International Citizen of the Year Award from the City of Minneapolis; and numerous awards from the hospitality, travel and marketing industries. He was active in the Masons (33 degree) and Shriners, and Sigma Phi Epsilon national fraternity, from which he received the Order of the Golden Heart. Survivors include his beloved wife of sixty years, Arleen; daughter Marilyn Carlson Nelson and husband Dr. Glen Nelson, and daughter Barbara Carlson Gage and husband Edwin ''Skip'' Gage; grandchildren Diana Nelson and husband Marius Muresanu, Curtis Nelson and wife Margie, Wendy Nelson, Daisy Mitchell, Geoffrey Gage and wife Kelly, Scott Gage and wife Gina, Christine Gage, and Richard Gage and wife Britt; six great-grandchildren; brother Warren and wife Jane; sisters-in-law Elaine Carlson and Hazel Carlson; and numerous nieces and nephews. Mr. Carlson was preceded in death by brothers Ken and Dean; a sister, Aileen Miller; and granddaughter, Juliet Nelson. Mr. Carlson will be remembered not only for the professional successes he achieved, but also for his love of family and community, and the integrity he demonstrated in everything he did. He lived a full, wonderful life and was an inspiration to his family, friends and colleagues. His sense of humor, guidance and wisdom will be missed. His immediate family, his extended family, and his corporate family around the world have pledged to follow his advice: ''Do not what I did, but seek what I sought.'' The funeral will be Tuesday, February 23, at Hennepin Avenue United Methodist Church, 511 Groveland, Minneapolis. Visitation is Monday, February 22, at the church. Contributions in his memory may be made to the University of Minnesota, Curtis L. Carlson School of Management and/or Hennepin Avenue United Methodist Church. For information, contact Washburn-McReavy Edina Chapel, 612-920-3996.
        CARLSON-Curtis. The Board and staff of the Children's Museum of Manhattan mourn the passing of Curtis Carlson, grandfather of the Museum's Vice Chairman, Diana Nelson, and father of our wonderful friend, Marilyn Nelson. His devotion to family and community is evident in the work of his entire family and a tribute to his lifetime of accomplishment. We express our deepest condolences to the entire family. Judith Hannan, Chairman Andrew Ackerman, Exec Director
      