
        FYBISH-Peggy Romano. On January 26, 1999, at her Manhattan home. Dearly loved wife and companion since 1971 of Stephen Fybish. Beloved mother of Emily Prager and Nora Elcar, loving grandmother of Lulu Prager. In her chief career as actress Peggy Romano, she combined outward beauty and grace of movement with a voice ranging in tone from gently poetic to powerfully expressive. Born on September 19, 1929, Peggy was first onstage at age five with her British-born actor father, Charles Romano, in ''The Great Waltz'' and with her actress mother, Mary Ricard, in ''The Old Maid''. As a child, she enjoyed the company of such family friends as Leslie Howard, Ruth Gordon, Noel Coward, the Lunts, Basil Rathbone, Judith Anderson and Margalo Gillmore. Her favorite playwrights and producers were Moss Hart, George Kaufman, and Max Gordon. A teenage star in both ''Junior Miss'' and ''Dear Ruth'', she went from Broadway to California with the national touring companies of these plays, performing in theatres in all 48 states during the 1940's. Married and a mother at age 18, she maintained her stage career less intensively through the 1960's. Peggy's brilliant, inquiring mind, keen sense of humor, and numerous talents were a rare combination. She was a painter of colorful landscapes, flowers and portraits, author of two novels, gifted costume designer, cartoonist, puppeteer and dancer. Her letters, diaries, and tape recordings delightfully conveyed her almost photographic memories of her favorite people, places and events, such as the 1991 solar eclipse at Oaxaca, Mexico, described at her memorial service on January 29, 1999. She cared passionately about her family, her country, and the survival of the earth's endangered animals, native cultures and natural habitats. Her knowledge of archaelogy and history enriched her travels to Europe, Mexico, Canada and the Caribbean Isles. In the 1990's, her summer vacations with her husband, Steve, by the tropical seashore of Isla Mujeres, gave her great pleasure. She listened joyously to birdsongs from the trees of Mexico and Manhattan, and the ballet music of Prokofiev's ''Cinderella''. The inspiration she gave to the lives and accomplishments of her two daughters, grandchild, Lulu, and her three husbands-Arthur Prager, Dana Elcar and Stephen Fybish-will always be remembered and cherished.
      