
        FEIDELSON-Babs (Mrs. Michael). The Board of Directors and Members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Babs Feidelson, whose many years of friendship and devotion to the Club will always be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Richard M. Feldman, President Edward J. Landau, Secretary
        FEIDELSON-Babette. Babs, cherished friend and partner, you inspired us with your strength and optimism. You filled our office with life and fun. You are greatly loved and will never be forgotten. You are our eternal valentine. Nancy Lawrence Feller and all your friends and employees at MRP Lawrence Marketing, Armonk, N.Y.
        FEIDELSON-Babs. A beautiful person both inside and out. We feel proud and privileged to have been her ''first northern friends.'' With all her wonderful children, we mourn her loss. We will never forget her courage, values, and infectious laugh. Jackie and Gerry Kaminsky
        FEIDELSON-Babette. Babs, our cupid, we will never forget you, your love, strength and caring. You are a great woman and we were honored to be your friend. We will miss you terribly and always love you. Nancy and Allan
        FEIDELSON-Babs. On behalf of our young people suffering from Cystic Fibrosis. We mourn the loss of Babs and her beloved Michael who inspired us for so many years to find a cure. Doris Tulcin and families of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation.
        FEIDELSON-Babs. Although we will never again see your beautiful smile, hear your contagious laugh, feel the warmth of your love and friendship, the cherished memories we share will live in our hearts and minds forever. Stephanie, Larry, Jennifer, Allison
        FEIDELSON-Babs. No one can fill the void. You were a remarkable friend to both of us. We love you and will treasure the memories of all the laughter and happy times we shared. Margie and Rick
        FEIDELSON-Babs. We shared so many treasured memories filled with lots of laughter and a few tears. Babs was one of a kind. We love you and will miss you. The Altmans
      