
        FEIL-Louis. Thank you for the knowledge that you allowed me to learn from your great wisdom. Your guidance will be with me forever. Our deepest sympathy to Gertrude, his wife, and children Jeffrey, Marilyn, Judy and Carole and brother Seymour. Herbert and Joan Graff
        FEIL-Louis. The Board and Staff of the Samuel Field YM & YWHA are deeply saddened by the passing of our good friend Louis Feil. We greatly appreciate his generous support of our agency's Jewish continuity and education programs. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Mr. William Frumkin, President Dr. Steven Goodman, Exec. VP
        FEIL-Louis. The partners and associates of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield mourn the loss of our dear friend and client of over 30 years. We shall miss this remarkable man beyond measure. We extend our deepest sympathy to Mrs. Feil, Jeffrey and his beloved family. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
        FEIL-Louis. The partners and staff of Grant Thornton, LLP extend their sincere sympathy to the family of our longtime treasured client, Louis Feil. A man of great vision and kindness, a true gentleman. His presence will be missed. Joel L. Burzin Grant Thornton, LLP
        FEIL-Louis. The employees of Century Operating Corp. note with profound sorrow the passing of Mr. Louis Feil. To his family, we extend our heartfelt sympathy. The Employees of Century Operating Corp.
        FEIL-Louis. EMUNAH of America is saddened by the loss of our friend, Louis Feil. His kindness and generosity to EMUNAH will long be remembered. Dr. Sylvia Schonfeld, Nat'l Pres. Shirley Singer, Exec V.P.
        FEIL-Louis. I will miss Louis Feil. I will miss his advice and his counsel and good lunches about good deals. I will miss his friendship... Sylvia and I offer our deepest sympathy to the family. Lewis Lubitz
        FEIL-Louis. With great sadness we mourn the passing of Louis Feil, grandfather, mentor and family doyen. His uniqueness cannot be replaced and will always be remembered. Justin, Eric and Donald Derfner
        FEIL-Louis. Milton Cooper and The Kimco Corporation wish to express their saddness over the passing of Louis Feil. We enjoyed our association with Louis Feil and The Feil Organization and had great respect for his intergrity.
        FEIL-Louis. We would like to express our heartfelt sympathy to the wife and to the family of Louis Feil, a man we admired for his dignity, charity and intelligence. Jon and Curran Estreich
      