
        PETER-Helmut W. KeySpan Energy and Brookyn Union mourn the passing of our former colleague and beloved friend. As our vice chairman and chief engineer, he was an ''engineer's engineer'', with a visionary commitment to research and development of new gas technologies and to excellence in engineering. He had a global perspective establshing technical exchange arrangements with Japanese, French and British companies. His analytical mind, infectious laugh and commitment to family and community, inspired and motivated us. We remember him with great love and affectionauf Wiedersehn, Helmut. To his wife Rosemarie, and his children Brigette, Dori, and Tom we extend our deepest condolences. Robert B. Catell, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer KeySpan Energy
        PETER-Helmut W. We will all share a loss without your tireless spirit, your unlimited contributions of energy and expertise, and your persistent pursuit of lofty goals. And I will miss your great humor and the thrill of seeing you smoothly traverse a ski slope like no one else can. You have added tremendous value to our industry and its customers. As a brilliant engineer and researcher, you have enriched our lives, while as a real proponent of natural gas you were a recognized expert in marketing our products. And you have also been a good friend that we will sincerely miss. Steve Ban Gas Research Institute
        PETER-Helmut W. Your passing means a great loss not only to us, but also to the whole international gas industry, as you have constantly taken a strong leadership in many areas for the advancement of the industry. We have not seen such a capable, sincere and pleasant person as you. You were liked and respected by everyone, and will be certainly long remembered by all your friends at Tokyo Gas Company, Ltd. Your friends at, Tokyo Gas
        PETER-Helmut W. All of the Institute of Gas Technology will miss you as a champion of technology development and our Trustee. Pauline and I will miss you as a dear friend. I will especially miss you at LNG and IGU World Gas Industry forums as a true internationalist. Bernard S. Lee Institute of Gas Technology
        PETER-Helmut W. To a man we greatly respected, and thought so warmly of, our deepest prayers are with you and your loved ones. Your kindness will be sadly missed, but Peace is with you now. Your friends at, Osaka Gas Company
      