
        RICHMAN-Dr. Howard. We are all greatly saddened to learn of the untimely passing of our friend, colleague, and former Chief of Surgery, Dr. Howard Richman, on February 3, 1999. Following completion of his surgical training, Dr. Richman remained at NYU where he rose to the level of Professor of Clinical Surgery and Attending Surgeon at University Hospital. He was Assistant Director of the Surgical Service, Director of the Medical Student Program, and Director of House Staff, as well as Director of the Surgical OPD at Bellevue Hospital. In 1975 Dr. Richman was appointed Director of Surgery at NY Infirmary. He subsequently became Chief of Surgery at NY Infirmary/Beekman Downtown Hospital and NY Downtown Hospital, until his retirement in 1993 where he remained on the Emeritus staff of NYU Downtown Hospital until his passing. We will all miss Dr. Richman's gentlemanly demeanor and sage advice. We are all deeply in his debt and will remember him fondly in our hearts. Howard Beaton, M.D., Chief of Surgery NYU Downtown Hospital Lester W. Blair, M.D., President, Medical Staff, NYU Downtown Hospital
        RICHMAN-Howard, MD. The New York University School of Medicine and its Alumni Association are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of Dr. Howard Richman, Class of 1953, Professor of Clinical Surgery; Attendant Surgeon at Tisch Hospital; President Emeritus of the NYU School of Medicine Alumni Association, 1987-1988; loyal member of the Board of Governors since 1983 and recipient of the Albert Gallatin Associates Award in 1994. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife Barbara, his children and family. We will miss his counseling and wisdom. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, February 7 at 11:30 AM at Bernheim, Apter, Goldsticker Funeral Chapel, 1600 Springfield Avenue, Maplewood NJ. The family would like donations in lieu of flowers to be sent to the Office of Alumni Relations, NYU School of Medicine, 550 First Avenue, NY NY 10016 for the Dr. Howard Richman Memorial Fund. Robert M. Glickman, MD Dean NYU School of Medicine Beth W. Lieberman, MD '73 Pres. NYU School of Medicine Alumni Association
      