
        ESSERMAN-Dr. Paul R., 76. February 13. Distinguished physician & professor at New York University School of Medicine. Survived by his wife, Dr. Irene Shapiro; children, Lauren and Dean; daughterin-law, Gilda; grandchildren, Rolando, Nellie, Samuel; and godchildren, Julia, Laura, and Tami Smith. A strong and gentle, loving & wise man, he was dearly loved by all who had the good fortune to know him. Memorial service Saturday, February 20 at noon, Ethical Culture Society, 2 W. 64 Street. In lieu of flowers, send donations to N.Y.U. School of Medicine.
        ESSERMAN-Paul R., M.D. The faculty and staff of New York University School of Medicine are deepy saddened by the passing of our beloved colleague & teacher, Dr. Paul R. Esserman, Professor of Clinical Medicine. A 1944 graduate of the School of Medicine and a devoted alumnus, he was a leader in the medical community. His many patients considered him to be a model physician, and his students benefited from his teaching and from the example he set for service to humanity. In 1971, Dr. Esserman was instrumental in organizing a program that brought members of the NYU School of Medicine faculty to teach students and treat patients at the Haile Selassie I University in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. In 1973, he began his long-standing service as a physician to the U.N. Mission of the People's Republic of China. Two years later, after visiting China as a guest of the government, he orchestrated the establishment of the NYU-People's Republic of China Educational Exchange Program, which brought outstanding physicians, scientists and scholars together in joint programs in both countries. His wife June died in 1982. We extend our heartfelt sypamthy to his son Dean, his daughter Lauren Esserman, his daughter-in-law Gilda Hernandez, his three grandchildren Rolando, Nellie-June and Sammy, and his longtime companion Dr. Irene Shapiro. Robert M. Glickman, M.D. Dean, NYU School of Medicine
        ESSERMAN-Paul R., M.D. We are saddend by the passing of Dr. Paul Esserman, Professor of Clinical Medicine, and a very distinguished alumnus of our School of Medicine. He served this institution and Bellevue Hospital for over 50 years. He was a foremost clinical scientific physician who was the epitome of a compassionate, skilled diagnostician and a most caring, competent physician. His many, many patients were the recipients of outstanding personal care for many years. He was a dear friend to all, and all his students admired him and attempted to follow his unique attributes as their role model. His patients were exceptionally devoted to him and he to them. He was always revered as a doctors' doctor. We will miss him sorely and it will be difficult if not impossible to replace him as a friend, colleague and personal physican. We express our deep sympathy to his children, Dean and Lauren. Saul J. Farber, M.D., M.A.C.P. The Frederick H. King Professor & Chairman, Dept. of Medicine NYU School of Medicine Director, Medical Services Bellevue and Tisch Hospitals
      