
        PORTER-Mary del Villar. Of Thornwood, NY died on February 23rd, 1999 at the age of 82. Mary, beloved and admired by those who knew her, possessed a courageous spirit and an inner strength that inspired everyone whose life she touched. A graduate of Smith College, she spent the war years as a reporter in Washington, DC. It was there she met Federico del Villar, a fellow journalist and expatriate Italian nobleman who shared Mary's love of adventure and storytelling. Mary and Fred's desire to ''live real life at last'' took them down many paths including a 750-mile walking trip across the back country of Southern Mexico, a stint as barge operators on the Erie Canal and a job as migrant laborers in the hops fields of California. Out of the Mexican expedition came a book, ''Where the Strange Roads Go Down.'' So did a baby daughter, Jane. Mary finally settled down in Tucson, Arizona, where she earned a Ph.D., and became a Professor of English at the University of Arizona. After Fred's death, Mary lived peacefully on in the Sonoran desert she so loved. In the early 1970s, she remarried and retired from teaching. She and her husband, Howard Porter, a retired Classics professor from Columbia University, lived in Guilford, CT. Mary continued to travel and to write during her life with Howard. She also became mother to three grown children, David, Martha and Michael. These were days of gardens and grandchildren and golden light. When Howard died in 1992, Mary made her home with her daughter, Jane, and son-inlaw, Merrick Gagliano, in a rambling old house in Thornwood, New York, continuing to make annual trips to her beloved Arizona, as long as her health permitted. Jane and Merrick's two children, Jim and Mimi have had the great pleasure of knowing their grandmother as a real part of their lives. We will all treasure our memories of Mary & the strength & courage she has inspired in us. May her journeys continue ''beyond the skyline where the strange roads go down.'' In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the University of Arizona Foundation and earmarked for the Mary del Villar Porter Memorial Scholarship Fund. They should be mailed to Dennis Evans, Associate Dean of Humanities, University of Arizona, PO Box 210067, Tucson, AZ 85721.
      