
        GOLDWATER-John L. On February 26, 1999. Creator of Archie Comics, Founder and past President of the Comics Magazine Association of America, past President of New York Society for the Deaf, National Commissioner of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai Brith, Poet Laureate, listed in Who's Who of America, member of Old Oaks Country Club and the Friars Club. Beloved husband of Gloria. Loving father of Jonathan, Jared, Richard and father-in-law of Penny. Adoring grandfather of Jesse, Shannon, Taylor and Summer. Devoted brother of Dorothy Glaser and the late Jack. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday, February 28, at 11 AM. Interment to follow at Kensico Cemetery, Valhalla, NY. Contributions in his memory may be the ADL.
        GOLDWATER-John L. The Board of Directors and Members of the Comics Magazine Association of America mourn the passing of its Founder and Chairman of the Board. His legacy will live on. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Gloria and the entire family. Holly Munter, CMAA Executive Director Michael Silberkleit, CMAA President Archie Comics Paul Levitz, CMAA Vice President DC Comics Richard Goldwater Archie Comics Matt Ragone Marvel Entertainment
        GOLDWATER-John. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague, John Goldwater, who was an active ADL leader for more than 50 years. He gave generously not only of his resources but of his time and talent as a writer, contributing frequently to the substance of the League's message. We will greatly miss his cultural support and his friendship. We offer our sincerest condolences to his wife, Gloria, and their two sons, Jonathan and Jared. Howard P. Berkowitz National Chairman Arnold Forster General Counsel Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        GOLDWATER-John L. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member, John L. Goldwater, on February 26th, 1999. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Sunday, February 28th at Campbell's Funeral Home, 81st Street at Madison Avenue, at 11 AM. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot Executive Director
      