
        BELDOCH-Hannah R. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of ''Honey'' Beldoch, beloved mother-in-law to Gene Hochfelder, grandmother to James Hochfelder, and greatgrandmother to Adam Hochfelder, extraordinary supporters and cherished friends, recently honored for their devotion to the Jewish community on Long Island and throughout the world. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Hochfelder family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Martin Rosenman, LI Cabinet Chair Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        BELDOCH-Hannah. She was ''Grandma Honey'' to the five Hochfelder boys and their wives: Jim and Ellen, Tom and Lynda, John and Janet, Andrew and Patricia, Peter and Stacy; and ''Great-Grandma Honey'' to Amy and Scott, Adam and Amy, Lauren, David, Jason, Julie, Josh, Alyssa, Robyn, Jake, Harrison and Charles; and great-great-grandmother to Samantha. After our mother Patricia Beldoch Hochfelder died in 1981, Honey was our surrogate mother, advisor, mentor and best friend to five generations at the same time. Her beautiful legacy will endure forever. The Hochfelder Family
        BELDOCH-Hannah ''Honey''. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of a great lady, Hannah Beldoch. ''Honey'' was a longtime activist and devoted supporter of ADL who passed that commitment onto her children and grandchildren. We will miss ''Honey'' and her tireless efforts to further the League's goals. We extend our deepest condolences to her son Michael and family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director Arnold Forster, General Counsel
        BELDOCH-Honey. Died peacefully in her ninety-sixth year. My best friend and mother-in-law for fiftysix years. The matriarch of the Hochfelder family. We will all miss this elegant, wise, strong, courageous, gracious lady. She will be especially missed by her loving and respectful son-in-law. Gene
        BELDOCH-Honey. The ADL Women's Division joins the Beldoch/ Hochfelder family in mourning Honey. she was a charming, delightful friend. We will always remember her graciousness and treasure her support. Audrey Magid, Chair Rhoda W. Korman, Director
        BELDOCH - Honey. Building Blocks Day Care Center of Roslyn mourns the passing of its longtime benefactor and friend. Barbara Stern, Director
        BELDOCH-Honey. To know her was a privilege. We loved her and will miss her. Mildred and Sam Levine
        BELDOCH-Honey. You were my idol. A true renaissance woman. Thank you for being in my life. Love, Carol Ostrow Hochfelder
      