
        RICHMAN-Bernard. Prominent leader in the textile industry, known as the ''King of Fine Cottons'', died on February 21 at Mount Sinai Hospital. The cause was gastric cancer. Born on June 18, 1918 in NYC and raised in Brooklyn, is a direct descendant of Rabbi David of Lelov, founder of the Lelov Chasidic dynasty in Poland, which relocated to Israel after the Holocaust. He began his career after serving his country in W.W. II. He founded Threadtex Inc. in 1964, which became a world renowned supplier of fine fabrics to the men's and women's apparel industry and promoter of Sea Island style cotton. The creative talents he fostered were cherished by designers throughout the industry. His motto was ''Kill them with quality''; his achievements in the textile industry spanned half a century. He touched many lives as a humanitarian and philanthropist. He was a founding and charter member of the Federal Law Enforcement Foundation since its inception in 1989. This foundation was established to ease the burden of FBI families whose loved ones were killed, disabled or became extremely ill while performing their duties. Acting in concert with former FBI assistant director Jim Fox he was responsible for creating an organization which forged a very productive and unique alliance between the NY business community and the Federal law enforcement environment. He was dedicated, loyal and responsible; he exemplified the FBI credo of fidelity, bravery and integrity. As a former member of the Board of Trustees for Park East Synagogue, he supported many Jewish causes. This patriarch will be remembered as a truly elegant gentleman who emanated warmth and wisdom and touched people in all walks of life. His colorful personality will be missed by all who had the pleasure of knowing him. He is survived by his devoted wife Sheila; daughter Hope Halpert; sons Kenneth and Scott from a previous marriage; four grandchildren; and sister Helen Goldstein. We love you and will carry on your legacy. Tributes to Park East Synagogue, 164 East 68th Street, NYC, or Yad Avrham, 13 East 63rd Street, NYC.
        RICHMAN-Bernard. The Friends of the Israel Defense Forces deeply mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend, Bernard, a devoted supporter of the soldiers of Israel. He will be deeply missed by all of us. To his beloved wife, Sheila, and to the entire family, our sincere condolences. John Klein Brig. Gen. Eliezer Hemeli
        RICHMAN-Bernard. A Guta Neshama and a Mench if there ever was one. He will always be in our hearts and deeply missed. To know you, Bernard, was to love you. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Sheila, his children and grandchildren. Jane & Larry David
      