
        REINGOLD-Jacob. Beloved husband, for 48 years, of Estelle, loving father of David, Joel, Daniel and Michael Reingold, devoted grandfather of Joshua, Adam, Corey, Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca, Amy and Noah Reingold, dear brother of Chaim, Devorah Chajut, and the late Samuel Reingold. Following funeral services on February 5th in NYC he was laid to rest in Hawthorne. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Jacob Reingold Art Program at The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale will be appreciated (718 405-8803).
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The Officers and Board of Directors of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the death of Jacob Reingold-a remarkable man whose true stature and accomplishment were matched by compassion and kindness. His lifelong dedication and leadership toward elevating the quality of life for the elderly are a beacon, and a standard, for us all. We offer our deepest sympathies to his wife Estelle, sons David, Joel (Cynde), Daniel (Abigail) and Michael (Arabella) Reingold, grandchildren Joshua, Adam, Corey, Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca, Amy and Noah Reingold, brother Chaim (Badonna) Reingold and family, sister Devorah Chajut and family, and the family of his late brother Samuel Reingold. We hope that your shared memories of a good and loving man-whose life was a precious gift to all who knew him-will bring comfort and solace to each of you. The Board of Directors of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale Milton A. Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai NYU Medical Center and Health System are saddened by the passing of Jacob Reingold, inspirational leader of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale. A visionary pioneer in the field of geriatrics, Mr. Reingold shared Mount Sinai's special committment to addressing the healthcare needs of the elderly, and dedication to improving the lives of older adults. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Estelle, to his sons David, Joel, Daniel and Michael, to his grandchildren, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Theresa A. Bischoff, Executive Vice President
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The Board, employees and volunteers of The Burden Center for the Aging note with deep saddness the passing of Jacob Reingold, Vice Chairman, The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale. He was a good friend and generous colleague who encouraged the development of unique collaborative programs. His compassion and vision helped set high standards for excellence in care and respect for the lives of older persons. We will miss his gracious counsel. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his loving family. Ellsworth G. Stanton III Chairman, Board of Directors William J. Dionne Executive Director
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The staff and volunteers of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn the death of our longtime leader and mentor, Jacob Reingold. He taught us all by his vision, and example, to imbue every life we touch with respect and dignity. He shall be missed and remembered always, as his shared wisdom and friendship are forever cherished. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his wife Estelle, his sons David, Joel, Daniel and Michael, and to the entire Reingold family. The Staff and Volunteers of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale
        REINGOLD-Jacob. My boss, my mentor, and my deeply beloved friend. At The Hebrew Home for the Aged, the grounds on which we walk, the buildings and the art we see, and the programs we admire are all heirs to his dreams. Jabob's interests and vitalities knew few limits; he truly made the world a better place. Our sincerest condolences to the entire Reingold family. Douglas Holmes and the Research Division of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The residents of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn the passing of our friend and inspiration, Jacob Reingold. He filled the Hebrew Home with his humanity and love of beauty, and made it, truly, our home. We extend deepest sympathies to his wife Estelle and to the entire Reingold family. May Jacob's name be forever a blessing in Israel. The Residents of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale
        REINGOLD-Jacob. On behalf of the lawyers and staff at the law firm of Freedman and Fish we mourn the passing of Jacob Reingold. The wonderful care he provided for our clients and all that have passed through the doors of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale and its affiliates will never be forgotten. We express our condolences to his family, friends and colleagues. Freedman and Fish
        REINGOLD-Jacob. Our 1996 Guest of Honor, the person for whom the Jacob Reingold Institue on Elder Abuse is named, our friend and colleague, a leader in the field of aging. We extend our sympathies to Estelle and all the Reingold family. The Board of Overseers and Staff of Hunter/Brookdale.
        REINGOLD-Jacob. Thirty-eight years of love and good work and good times. The Home, Scarsdale, Mount Vernon, the Cape, wherever we were together. We'll always remember Jacob and we grieve with Estelle and ''The Boys'' and all the family. Alfred and Rose
        REINGOLD-Jacob. Thanks so much for seeing to it that our mothers Anni Weintraub and Ida Solomon had such excellent care at the Home. We are ever grateful. Our deepest sympathy to Estelle and the family. Selma and Tiny Weintraub
        REINGOLD-Jacob. You leave a void in my heart that can never be filled. Dani Siegel
      