
        LONG-Ruth Stoddard, M.D. on February 23, 1999. Dr. Long was an internationally renowned retina specialist and one of the first women resident surgeons in the United States. She was the first ophthalmic surgeon in America to conservatively treat ocular malignant melanoma with cobalt-60 plaque. Her contributions to the field of retina were acknowledged by her colleagues with her election to the prestigious Retina Society. She was one of the first women to achieve this distinction. During her long and accomplished career, Dr. Long held positions as Director of Retina Services at New York Medical College and its associated hospitals and most recently at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center, Cabrini Medical Center NYC and Bayley Seton Hospital in Staten Island. In this capacity she was directly responsible for training a generation of ophthalmologists in retinal diseases and surgery. Dr. Long was also an expert in ophthalmic fluorescein angiography, a subject on which she lectured extensively. In addition to her professional associations, Dr. Long was also a member of the General Society of Mayflower Descendents. She is survived by son Justin, mother Ruth Way Long, sister Jane Hadley, brothers Nelson, Andrew and Jonathan, Robert D'Amico M.D. and many loving friends. Dr. Long will be remembered for her keen intelligence, quick wit, dramatic presence, and inimitable sense of style. She personified the words ''larger than life''. Visitation at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St., New York, NY. For information call: 212-288-3500
        LONG-Ruth Stoddard, M.D. The Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and the Medical Staff of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, who served our institution for more than 25 years. Dr. Long was a dedicated physician who always showed sincere concern for her patients and for Cabrini Medical Center. Our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to her family. Maurizio Daliana, M.D., Pres. Medical Staff Morton Davidson, M.D., Med. Dir. Jeffrey Frerichs, President, Cabrini Medical Center
      