
        REINGOLD-Jacob. Beloved husband, for 47 years, of Estelle, loving father of David, Joel, Daniel and Michael Reingold, devoted grandfather of Joshua, Adam, Corey, Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca, Amy and Noah Reingold, dear brother of Chaim, the late Samuel Reingold and Devorah Chajut. Services will be held at 12 noon, Friday, February 5, Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 E. 79th St., NYC. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Jacob Reingold Art Program at The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale will be appreciated.
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The Officers and Board of Directors of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the death of Jacob Reingold-a remarkable man whose true stature and accomplishment were matched by compassion and kindness. His lifelong dedication and leadership toward elevating the quality of life for the elderly are a beacon, and a standard, for us all. We offer our deepest sympathies to his wife Estelle, sons David, Joel (Cynde), Daniel (Abigail) and Michael (Arabella) Reingold, grandchildren Joshua, Adam, Corey, Sarah, Rachel, Rebecca, Amy and Noah Reingold, brother Chaim (Badonna) Reingold and family, sister Devorah Chajut and family, and the family of his late brother Samuel Reingold. We hope that your shared memories of a good and loving man-whose life was a precious gift to all who knew him-will bring comfort and solace to each of you. The Board of Directors of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale Milton A. Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) mourn the loss of Jacob Reingold, Vice Chairman of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, and the recipient of the GNYHA Lifetime Achievement Award in 1996. Jake was a giant in the field of continuing care whose pioneering work contributed immeasurably to raising public awareness concerning the needs of the elderly. His commitment to innovation and his personal drive created a model for the delivery of quality geriatric care that remains a standard for the nation. The healthcare field will be forever enriched by Jacob's enduring legacy of excellence. Our condolences to Jacob's wife Estelle, his son Daniel, and his family and grandchildren. Mark J. Mundy, GNYHA Chairman Kenneth E. Raske, GNYHA President Scott C. Amrhein, Vice President, GNYHA Center For Continuing Care
        REINGOLD-Jacob. On behalf of our Partners and Associates we are saddened to learn of the loss of our dear friend, Jacob Reingold. Jacob was a leader and visionary all of his life. He was highly respected by all who came in contact with him. As Executive VicePresident of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale and all of its Affiliates he set a standard for excellence and care which was a model for all to follow. It was our good privilege to work with him and learn from his wisdom. He will be sorely missed by all. We express condolences to his dear wife Estelle, sons Daniel, David, Joel, Michael, daughters-in-law and grandchildren. May the family be granted comfort and consolation with all of those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Loeb and Troper
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The Board and staff of F.E.G.S. mourn the passing of a dedicated and esteemed professional leader. Jacob Reingold was a friend and an inspiration to all of us who strove to improve the lives of those in need in our community. He will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Estelle, his sons Daniel, Joel, David, and Michael and the entire Reingold family. His wit and compassion will be missed by all who knew him and benefitted from his wisdom. Joseph Stein, Jr. Pres./Chair. F.E.G.S. Alfred P. Miller, Exec. V.P./C.E.O.
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The staff and volunteers of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn the death of our longtime leader and mentor, Jacob Reingold. He taught us all by his vision, and example, to imbue every life we touch with respect and dignity. He shall be missed and remembered always, as his shared wisdom and friendship are forever cherished. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his wife Estelle, his sons David, Joel, Daniel and Michael, and to the entire Reingold family. The Staff and Volunteers of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The worldwide family of Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem mourns the loss of a dear and devoted friend, who as a member of the Board, made a vital contribution to the well-being of the people of Jerusalem. His dynamic personality, sense of humor, and warm smile endeared him to all who had the good fortunate to know him. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Estelle, loving children, and family. Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem International Board of Governors
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The Brookdale Foundation Group is deeply saddended by the death of this compassionate and innovative man. He was a caring, committed and creative leader in developing unique services for the residents of the Hebrew Home for the Aged and local and national communities. His passing has a deep impact on all who worked toward assuring a high quality of life for older persons. To his wife, Estelle, and his children, we offer our deepest sympathy. SLS President
        REINGOLD-Jacob. Inspirational force of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale-no greater friend had elderly citizens than Jack Reingold...a man of wit, culture, charm and eternal youth-he revolutionized their twilight years ...breaking false traditions, encouraging the propagation of art, music, even romance...making their extended years richer. To Estelle, to Dan, Michael, David, Joe and their families...We will miss his zest for life! Peter Samton, on behalf of Gruzen Samton, Architects
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The residents of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn the passing of our friend and inspiration, Jacob Reingold. He filled the Hebrew Home with his humanity and love of beauty, and made it, truly, our home. We extend deepest sympathies to his wife Estelle and to the entire Reingold family. May Jacob's name be forever a blessing in Israel. The Residents of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale
        REINGOLD-Jacob. We note with deep regret the passing of Jacob Reingold, our visionary partner in establishing the Samuels Adult Day Services Center at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale and we express our condolence to his family and colleagues. The Board of Directors The Fan Fox and Leslie R. Samuels Foundation Inc.
        REINGOLD-Jacob. We mourn the passing of our long-time client and friend, Jacob Reingold, Vice Chairman of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale. We will miss Jacob and offer our heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and colleagues. The Partners, Senior Counsel, Associates and Staff of Proskauer Rose LLP
        REINGOLD-Jacob. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend, a great leader and a great administrator. He will be sorely missed and long remembered. Marty Silverman and family
        REINGOLD-Jacob. The staff of Goodman Media International mourns the passing of Jacob Reingold, a giant in the field of aging. An entire industry stands on his shoulders today, and forever. Tom Goodman, President
        REINGOLD-Jacob. A true, caring friend of our family, a man we deeply respect, a very special person who will be sorely missed. Isaiah and Fagie Levy
      