
        GLAZIER-Henry Simon, Jr. On January 27, 1999, age 88, died of natural causes at his home in New York City, New York. He attended the Collegiate School in New York, class of '28, the Phillips Exeter Academy, class of '28 and graduated from Harvard, class of '31. After several years of working on Wall Street, he entered the Air Force in April 1942, serving first with the 104th Anti-Submarine Squadron based in Atlantic City and then serving overseas with the 498th Bombardment Group on Saipan, receiving an honorable discharge in September 1945. For several years after the war he was active with various charitable organizations, namely the Jewish Board of Guardians, where he served on various committees, including chairman of the Farm and Parole Committees of the Hawthorne Cedar Knolls School, the Jewish Big Brothers and helping in the formation of the Big Brothers of America; and member of the Girls Service League, of which his mother had been one of the founders. In 1955, he joined Ralph Destino in the formation of the Destino jewelry firm. After Ralph's death, he took over management of the company, obtaining from the company the license to manufacture and sale Christian Dior men's jewelry and accessories for North America. He sold the firm to Benrus in 1971, staying on another 5 years as consultant. After the sale in 1971, he retired from most activities but designed a house in Acapulco, Mexico for his adopted son Rheal Boulanger Glazier, where they both spent most of the winter. He also gave much of his Chappaqua property to the town for the Glazier Arboretum. Between 1988 and 1990 he sold all his property except for the city house, where he lived permanently. After his son's death in 1991, he also sold the city house and purchased and remodeled an apartment in the Lombardy Hotel, where he spent the rest of his life. His closest surviving relative is his niece Rena Bransten of San Francisco and, of course, her children and grandchildren. He will be loved and missed by all the many lives he has touched during his lifetime, especially from his nephew Stephen D. Grey and his honorary grandson William Darren, a.k.a. Woodie Wade.
      