
        PETTIT-James G. Of West Hartford and Old Lyme, CT, died suddenly on February 8, 1999 at St. Francis Hospital & Medical Center, Hartford, CT. Born March 4, 1917 in Long Branch, New Jersey, he was the son of Thomas A. and Julia C. (Gordon) Pettit. Mr. Pettit was an investment advisor for over 50 years, associated with the firms of Paine Webber and Salomon Smith Barney. He was honored by Pope Paul VI in 1963 when he was appointed as a Knight of Saint Gregory the Great. Mr. Pettit was former Secretary of the Board of Directors of St. Francis Hospital & Medical Center, also serving as Chairman of the Finance Committee and member of the Board of Directors for 38 years as well as being a current Corporator. He was also Past President of the Connecticut Hospital Association, past Chairman and current member of the Archdiocese of Hartford Financial Advisory Committee, past Chairman of the Connecticut Health and Educational Facilities Authority, originally appointed by Governor Ella Grasso in 1975. Mr. Pettit was Trustee Emeritus of St. Joseph College and served as a Corporator of Hartford Hospital and member of the T. Stewart Hamilton Fellowship Committee. He was commissioned as an Officer in the United States Army Air Corps and served on the staff of General Casey Vincent. Mr. Pettit was predeceased by his wives Ann Taylor Pettit and Marion Macdonald Castagno-Pettit; his sisters, Mary Quirk, Catherine Carton, Teresa Todaro and his brother, John Pettit, all of New Jersey. Mr. Pettit leaves his daughter Anne Pettit Conway and her husband C. Jay Conway of West Hartford; his daughter Mary Pettit Orluk and her husband Lawrence Orluk of West Hartford; his son James A. Pettit and his wife Christine (Annulli) Pettit of West Hartford; his three beloved granddaughters, Marianne T. Pettit, Julia Ann Orluk, and Catherine Ann Pettit; his sisters, Winifred Cittadino and June Luvchuk of New Jersey, and Frances Cartwright of Texas. Calling hours will be on Wednesday, February 10, 1999 from 3-8 pm at Sheehan-HilbornBreen Funeral Home, West Hartford, CT. A Mass of Christian Burial will be offered at St. Peter Claver Church, 47 Pleasant St, West Hartford, CT on Thursday, 10:00 am with burial in St. James Cemetery, Manchester, CT. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to St. Francis Hospital & Medical Center Foundation, 114 Woodland St., Hartford, CT 06105.
      