
        NEUMAN-Irving. In his 100th year died peacefully at his home on February 25th. Beloved husband of the late Bertha. Loving father of Herbert and his wife Stephanie, Sheldon and Marvin. Dear grandfather of Elena and Jay, Jonah, Rachel and Richard, Justin, Andrew, Matthew and Sara. Great grandfather of Talia, Danielle, and Jacob. Services 11:15 AM Sunday at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        NEUMAN-Irving. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a most cherished member of our extended family. In a valued relationship that spanned almost three decades, Mr. Neuman, together with his beloved wife, Bea, provided disadvantaged Israeli youth with the most precious gift possible, a quality academic, religious and technological education. Mr. Neuman was a role model par excellence being one of the ''People of the Book''. His insatiable appetite for reading and learning from the wisdom of others further sharpened his own keen intellect and wit. As an esteemed member of our Board of Directors, his wise counsel was held in the highest regard. The Neumans' magnanimous generosity establishing the Irving and Bea Neuman Scholarship Endowment and the Irving and Bea Neuman Electronics Laboratory will serve as a lasting memorial, enabling Boys Town to fulfill its mission of turning young boys from limited backgrounds into young men with limitless futures. Deepest sympathy to sons Herbert, Sheldon and Marvin Neuman, and the entire family. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Vice Chairman Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Executive Vice President
        NEUMAN-Irving. The Board of Regents and staff of the International Center for University Teaching of Jewish Civilization, Jerusalem, mourn with Herbert Neuman on the passing of his father, Irving Neuman, Hebrew scholar, dear friend and supporter for many years, and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Ralph I. Goldman, Chairman Richard J. Scheuer, Honorary Chairman Yom Tov Assis, Academic Chairman
        NEUMAN-Irving. The Histadruth Ivrith of America mourns the loss of its benefactor of many years, Irving Neuman, a lifelong lover of the Hebrew language and culture and generous supporter of Hadoar. We extend our deepest sympathy to his sons, Herbert, a dedicated member of our Executive Board, Sheldon and Marvin, and their bereaved families. Miriam Ostow, President Rabbi Abraham Kupchik, Executive Vice President
        NEUMAN - Irving. SEFER - The Moscow Center for University Teaching of Jewish Civilization extends condolences to Herbert Neuman, a member of SEFER's Interational Advisory Committee, on the passing of his dear father, Irving, and conveys its sympathy to the members of the family. Prof. Rashid Kaplanov, Chairman Prof. Victoria Motchalova, Executive Director
      