
        MATTONE-Vincent J. Of Locust, NJ. 54 years of age, died at home Wednesday, February 24, 1999. Vincent J. Mattone was a former member of the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors of the Bear Stearns Corporation. Mr. Mattone started at Bear Stearns in July of 1979 as a Limited Partner. He was made a General Partner in 1981 and was responsible for Bear Stearns Fixed Income, Financing, Trading and Sales. He was a General Partner and became a member of the Executive Committee before Bear Stearns went public in 1985. His tenure at Bear Stearns accredited him with the design and implementation of the Fixed Income Trading and Finance Systems that were instrumental to the growth of Bear Stearns business. In addition to the design of these systems, Mr. Mattone was co-head of all trading, sales and financings. While at Bear Stearns, Mr. Mattone completed one of the largest clearing transactions in firm's history. Simultaneously he brought in the State of Ohio's 25 billion-dollar pension and investment portfolios as clearing and lending agent. He resigned in 1995 as a member of the Executive Committee and Director of the Public Corporation to pursue his own interests. Prior to joining Bear Stearns, Mr. Mattone was at Salomon Brothers from August of 1964 to March of 1979. Mr. Mattone started as a clerk in the Government Operations Department at Salomon Brothers. He worked many different jobs over his years in the operations area and ultimately became a manager in charge of Government Operations. He implemented financing techniques and systems that allowed the firm to grow with minimal expansion of personnel. Mr. Mattone was on the Federal Reserve Book Entry Conversion Team. In addition, he worked on the development of the Depository Trust Company and the Midwest Clearing Corporation. In 1973, Mr. Mattone was asked to look into the problems arising on the trading floor of Salomon Brothers to determine how to eliminate the error ratio and the redundancies that were costing the firm millions of dollars. Mr. Mattone built and designed a trade and finance system to manage the firm's business. That system led to Mr. Mattone's promotion to Vice President in charge of the firm's financing. Mr. Mattone started the matched book business for Salomon Brothers and was instrumental in creating funding opportunities with tax advantages for both its partners and customers. Mr. Mattone created a term funding market with financing trades being done as long as 20 years. These trades were the nucleus of many arbitrageurs in the business and were used for the foundation of the Salomon Brothers arbitrage trading business. His dedication and commitment to his wife and children were the reasons for working as hard as he did. He survived three heart attacks and went back to work immediately to continue to provide for his family. His dedication to his family was first and foremost. He was a communicant and generous benefactor at Holy Cross RC Church, Rumson. He also served on the Finance and Planning Committee for the church. He was a significant participant for the Path to Peace Foundation; a member of the Knights of the Order of St. Gregory; a significant participant for the Rainbow Foundation; a supporter of the Middletown PBA; a founding father along with State Senator Kyrillos of the Volunteers and Health Organization at Riverview Medical Center, Red Bank; and he established a scholarship at Monmouth University in memory of his late wife, Emilia who pre-deceased him in September, 1997. He was pre-deceased by his wife, Emilia and his parents, Sebastian and Ann nee Maiorino in 1996. He is survived by his sons, Vincent J., Jr & Alan J. both of Locust, NJ; his daughter and son-in-law, Michele and Peter L. Corvisiero of Middletown, NJ and one grandson, Christian P. Corvisiero of Middletown, NJ. Family requests that memorial donations may be made in his memory to the Path to Peace Foundation, 25 E. 39th Street, New York, NY 10016. Visitation will be at the John E. Day Funeral Home, 85 Riverside Avenue, Red Bank, NJ 07701 on Saturday, 7-9pm and Sunday 2-4 & 7-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial will take place on Monday, March 1, 1999 11AM at Holy Cross RC Church, Rumson, NJ 07760 and entombment at the Mt. Olivet Cemetery Mausoleum, Middletown, NJ.
      