
        PARNESS-Harry. Of Boynton Beach, FL, passed away February 6, 1999. He is survived by his beloved wife, Vivienne Brezin Parness, daughter, Carol Ann Davis, and her husband, Ronald Lee Davis, granddaughter, Robin Laffer, and her husband, Steven Laffer, great-grandsons, Jarod and Brandon Laffer, grandson, Steven Davis; he is also survived by his daughter Deborah Levine, and her husband, Dr. Robert Levine, granddaughter Julie Levine Friedman and her husband, Dr. Greg Friedman, great-granddaughters, Rachel and Ariel Friedman, and great-grandson, Brandon Friedman, granddaughter, Barbara Levine Mevs, and her husband, Eric Mevs, and great-grandsons, Daniel and Raphael Mevs, granddaughters, Brenda and Diane Levine; and he is survived by daughter, Barbara Brams, and grandsons, Warren Brams and Jeffrey Brams. Harry Parness graduated from Emerson College, Boston, MA, and began his career as a Shakespearean actor in the early '30s. During the early war years, he was a broadcast radio journalist in Boston, Chicago and Washington. In the 1940s he became a founding member of the maker of Serutan, Geritol, and Acqua Velva and served as Vice President for Sales of its successor company, the J. B. Williams Co., where he trailblazed early television advertising, sponsoring such shows as the Lawrence Welk Show and the Jackie Gleason Show. During the '60s and through the '70s and '80s he was an Officer and Director of the J. B. Williams Co. Until retirement, he maintained homes in Morristown, NJ, New York City, and Miami Beach, FL. An avid golfer, he retired to Boynton Beach, FL, in the late 1980s. Mr. Parness was active in many philanthropies. He was an early supporter of many Miami institutions, including Douglas Gardens, the Jewish Home for the Aged, Mt. Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach, the Miami Heart Institute, Variety Children's Hospital, the American Cancer Society, and he was a founder of the National Parkinson's Foundation for Research in Miami, FL. He was a lifetime supporter of the Jewish Federation, a member of Temple Emanuel of Miami Beach and Temple Beth Shalom, the Anti-Defamation League, and the Democratic Party. In his memory, his loving wife, Vivienne Parness, is dedicating a pool at the YMCA at the Boynton Beach campus for the benefit of their Parkinson's program. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to the Parkinson's Foundation for Research, Miami, FL. Memorial services to be held at Levitt-Weinstein, North Miami Beach, FL, on Feburary 8, 1999, and burial at Mt. Nebo Memorial Gardens.
      