
        STONE-Myron Kay (Mike), died peacefully at his home in Palm Beach on March 2nd, just before his 85th birthday. Beloved husband and best friend of Natalie Gordon Stone for 58 years. Devoted father of Elizabeth and Kincaid Webb, Pamela and Robert Ancowitz, and Randall and Erin Stone. Adored grandpa of Ben, Jonno, Jenny, Jesse, Josh, Joey, Bianca and Jackie, and proud great-grandfather of Emma. Brother of Irving and Pearl Stone and Didi Stevens. Brother-in-law of Melvin and Ellin Gordon. Mourned by many nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews. Born in Brockton, Mass., son of the late Joseph and Marie Stone, graduate of Thayer Academy and Harvard University 1937. Lover of art, former Chair of Boston Tributary Theater, Secretary of the Boston Chapter of American Jewish Committee, member of the Board of the Jewish Association of the Aged, Patrons' Committee of the New York Philharmonic, Board of the American Place Theater, Building Advisory Committee of Kravis Center, Fellow for Life of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. President of Designers Originals, manufacturer of women's sweaters, and vice president of its parent company, Hampshire Design. Member of the Harvard Club and Beach Point, honorary member of the Class of 1938 of Wellesley College. The family is grateful to Tom Kirkpatrick, Gaspare Colletti, Sally Huggins, and their families for their long years of loving care. Family will receive at their summer home in Mamaroneck, New York, this Saturday, Sunday and Monday evenings, and Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday at home in Palm Beach. Graveside ceremony will be private.
        STONE-Myron. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Myron (Mike) Stone, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. Mr. Stone and his beloved wife, Natalie, have generously supported UJA-Federation in New York and Palm Beach. A devoted leader who has enhanced the lives of others through his selfless dedication, he served as an officer of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged (JASA), a beneficiary agency. Mrs. Stone is a former board member of UJA-Federation. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mrs Stone and the entire family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
      