
        TALBERT-William F. The New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International records with deep sorrow the death of William F. Talbert, a long-time member of our Board of Directors and Board of Chancellors. Bill was a mentor and friend to many of us when diabetes entered our lives and a loyal supporter of diabetes research for many years. Fighting his own battle with the disease, he maintained a successful career as a professional tennis player, and was a winner of the Davis Cup and a winner for all of us. We will all miss Bill very much and we extend our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. James M. Lurie, President
        TALBERT-William F. The Board of Directors and staff of the International Tennis Hall of Fame mourn the loss of our friend, Chairman Emeritus and 1967 Hall of Fame inductee. Bill Talbert was a true champion and leader of the sport of tennis. Through his contributions to the game, not only as a player, but as Davis Cup Captain, and author, he was affectionately known as ''Mr. Tennis.'' We extend our deepest sympathy to his sons W. Pike and Peter, and family. John R. Reese, Chairman Joseph F. Cullman 3rd, Chairman, Executive Committee Jane G. Brown, President Tony Trabert, Vice President
        TALBERT-William F. The United States Tennis Association mourns the loss of a true friend and great champion. As tournament director, Bill Talbert guided the US OPEN at Forest Hills and Flushing Meadows. A four-time champion in the US Nationals doubles, Bill also led the United States to Davis Cup victories as a captain and player. We will miss Bill at the US OPEN and extend our sympathies to his sons, Peter and Pike, and the rest of his family.
        TALBERT-William F. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. Irwin H. Kramer, President
        TALBERT-William F. The family of the late Howard Cosell mourns the loss of Billy Talbert, a man of courage, character, kindness and a dear friend. Our deepest sympathy to his sons Pike and Peter.
      