
        STEPHENS-Thomas J., a White Plains lawyer, died on March 2, 1999 in Briarcliff Manor, New York, after a long bout with Parkinson's disease. He was 76. Mr. Stephens was born in Brooklyn, New York on September 18, 1922. He graduated from Polytechnic Preparatory School in Brooklyn and Colgate University where he attended summer sessions in order to join the U.S. Army during World War II as a private in 1942. Mr. Stephens served in the 36th infantry division of the 5th Army and eventually rose to first lieutenant in command of a rifle company with the 7th Army. He served in North Africa, Italy, France and Germany and participated in numerous campaigns, including Rapido River, Monte Cassino, the Breakthrough at Anzio, the liberation of Rome, and the invasions of Southern France and the German Rhineland. He received a battlefield commission for heroic action beyond the line of duty, the Bronze Star with a cluster, five battle stars and the combat infantryman's badge, among other decorations. After the War, Mr. Stephens earned his law degree from Syracuse University and practiced in New York City before founding the firm Stephens & Buderwitz in White Plains, New York where he practiced for nearly 40 years. Mr. Stephens ran for mayor of White Plains in 1952 and was continually active in White Plains and Westcheter County affairs. He served as President of the Bar Association of White Plains, President of the YMCA, President of the Board of Trustees of the Presbyterian Church in White Plains and on the board of EM Industries and numerous other corporations. He was a member of the Whippoorwill Club in Armonk, New York. Mr. Stephens was instrumental in the planning and design of the Kingsley House residences on Barker Avenue in White Plains, restructured its sponsorship and funding and assured its completion after the initial program encountered difficulties prior to completion. Funeral services will be held at the White Plains Presbyterian Church 39 North Broadway, White Plains on Saturday, March 6, at 10:30 am. The family requests that, in lieu of flowers, donations be sent to the Alzheimer's Association. Mr. Stephens is survived by wife Inge of North Salem, New York, sister Margaret Christie, son Christopher, daughters Eleanor and Merielle and granddaughter, Lara.
      