
        MERESMAN-Harry. Died on March 3rd, 1999 at the age of 88. Beloved husband of the late Helen Chafets Meresman, devoted father of Helaine Meresman Barnett and the late Janis Meresman Goldman, adored grandfather of Craig and Jennifer Barnett, Roger Barnett, Melissa Goldman, Lori and Brett Zbar, great-grandfather of Gabriel Barnett, father-in-law extraordinaire to Victor Barnett and Michael Goldman, loving son, brother, brother-in-law, uncle and loyal, trusted and respected friend. A man whose unquestioned integrity, ethics and morality were his hallmarks and his devotion to his family, commitment to his community and his pride in his profession were his passions. The high standards by which he lead his life and his impeccable reputation will remain to all who knew him as his everlasting legacy.
        MERESMAN-Harry. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Harry Meresman, one of the Foundation's founding directors and for many years its Secretary/Treasurer. Harry served at the side of Charles Revson-as his accountant, advisor, confidante and closest of friends-from the 1930's until Mr. Revson's death in 1975. As a director of the Revson Foundation, Harry was unfailingly kind, a man with deep ethical standards and a Jewish heart. It was a privilege to work with him, and the Foundation owes much to his careful stewardship and steady guidance. Our hearts go out to his daughter, Helaine Barnett, a current director of the Foundation, to his son-in-law, Victor Barnett, a former director of the Foundation, and to his grandchildren and extended family. Robert S. Rifkind, Chairman Eli N. Evans, President
        MERESMAN-Harry. With warm sympathy we mourn the loss of the beloved father of our sister-inlaw and aunt, Helaine Meresman Barnett, and of the late Janis Meresman Goldman, loving father-inlaw of Victor Barnett and Michael Goldman, devoted grandfather and great grandfather. Fond memories will remain. Adele Suslak and Family
        MERESMAN-Harry. Our ''Uncle Harry,'' dear friend to Morrises all, will be deeply missed. Jeff, Dona, Donny, Carole Lee
      