
        CIZEK-John Scott. Age 68. Died March 5, 1999 of complications following surgery. Mr. Cizek was a life-long resident of Darien and served as Vice Chairman of Aon Aviation, specializing in aviation insurance. Mr. Cizek enjoyed a 41 year career in the Commercial Aviation Insurance Industry, holding positions as President and CEO of the Aviation Division of Frank B. Hall, Inc., and Vice Chairman, Rollins, Hudig, Hall. His work encompassed associations in Mexico, Central and South America, Eastern and Western Europe, Africa and Asia. He helped pioneer the concept of re-insurance, and worked pre-Perestroika, behind the Iron Curtain, traveling to Poland, Czechoslovakia and China. Mr. Cizek graduated from Kimball Union Academy and Colgate University. While at Colgate, Mr. Cizek played varsity football and was a member of an elite men's chorale group, the Colgate Thirteen. John's voice can be heard on their recordings through his graduation in 1952. Additionally, he was an active alumnus of the Delta Kappa Epsilon Fraternity. John Cizek served in the Army's Combat Intelligence Corps during the Korean war and received an Honorable discharge. An avid golfer, John was twice required to provide liquid refreshment for his friends and opponents after achieving a hole in one at Wee Burn Country Club's seventh hole. A dedicated athlete and competitor, he also ran road races, successfully finishing the New York City Marathon with his daughter Laurie. John served on the Board of Directors as Chairman of admissions at Wee Burn Country Club and was a member of John's Island and Windsor Clubs, in Vero Beach, Florida, the Pine Valley Golf Club, and the Wings Club, Union League and Yale Clubs in Manhattan. Mr. Cizek is survived by his wife, Lucie Cizek of Darien; brother, Les Cizek of Fort Bragg, CA; son, Scott Cizek of Frederick, MD; and daughters, Laurie and Amanda Cizek of Stamford and Darien. Mr. and Mrs. Cizek have three grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, March 13 at 2:00 p.m. at the First Congregational Church of Darien. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to the John S. Cizek Memorial Fund, Colgate University, Hamilton, NY 13346-1398 or the Memorial Fund of The First Congregational Church of Darien, 14 Brookside Road, Darien, CT 06820.
      