
        TALBERT-William F. The family of Bill Talbert acknowledges and appreciates the expressions of sympathy extended by his friends worldwide. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that a donation be made in Bill's name to The International Tennis Hall of Fame, 100 Park Ave, New York, NY 10017 or the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, NY Chapter, 381 Park Avenue South, NY NY 10016.
        TALBERT-William F. The American Diabetes Association notes with sorrow the passing of William F. Talbert, longtime volunteer and member of the President's Advisory Council of the American Diabetes Association. Throughout his more than 45 years of work with the Association's camping program, Bill was an excellent role model for young people. He demonstrated that they could pursue their dreams while successfully managing their diabetes. Bill's success on the tennis court proved him a champion, and his tireless work to improve the lives of people with diabetes made him a champion in our hearts. Our sincere condolences to his family. The Volunteers and Staff of the American Diabetes Association, New York
        TALBERT-William. It is with deep sorrow that we mourn the passing of Bill Talbert, tennis great and true champion on and off the court. Bill's tenacity and myriad successes in the world of tennis defied those who questioned his ability to triumph in spite of his diabetes. Not only did he make his mark in tennis doubles many times over, but he also made the cause of diabetes research and the mission of The Juvenile Diabetes Foundation his lifetime commitment. He served on both the JDF-New York Chapter's Board of Directors and Board of Chancellors for a number of years. We will miss his spirit, his optimism, and his willingness to give of himself. The Board, Volunteers, and Staff J D F International
        TALBERT-William F. The Board of Directors of the USTA/Eastern Junior Tennis Foundation notes with deep sorrow the death of Bill Talbert, a Director Emeritus of our Board. In addition to his many international accomplishments we remember him as an honored member of the Eastern Tennis Hall of Fame, a strong supporter of tennis in the East and a good friend to those of us who served with him. We extend deep sympathy to his bereaved family. Lois Prince, President
        TALBERT-William F. The United States Tennis Association mourns the loss of a true friend and great champion. As tournament director, Bill Talbert guided the US OPEN at Forest Hills and Flushing Meadows. A four-time champion in the US Nationals doubles, Bill also led the United States to Davis Cup victories as a captain and player. We will miss Bill at the US OPEN and extend our sympathies to his sons, Peter and Pike, and the rest of his family.
      