
        MERKIN-Hermann. Congregation Ohab Zedek, Manhattan records with deep sorrow the passing of our longtime devoted menber and friend Hermann Merkin. To the entire family we extend our sincerest condolences. Rabbi Allen Schwartz Murray Zucker, President
        MERKIN-Hermann. A treasured jewel of the Jewish people has been called by the Almighty to return his soul to its eternal reward. An extraordinary and gifted man, his life reflected the majesty of Judaic values and ethics. His complete commitment to the well being of Klal Yisrael and the strengthening of Torah in America and Israel were exceptional. His acts of tzedakah and chesed were the daily inspirations that guided his life. He always viewed his resources as granted to him by the Almighty to benefit others. As a Golden Founder of the medical center, together with his wife Ursula, the Merkins played a vital role in providing for the health and well being of the people of Jerusalem through their dedication of the original home of the medical center's School of Nursing on Jaffa Road. May Mrs. Merkin, their children, grandchildren and the entire family have loving memories of this special man of distinction, and may they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, President Lee Weinbach, President, National Women's Division Sidney Adler, Treasurer International Board of Directors Jack C. Bendheim, Co-Chair Michael G. Jesselson, Co-Chair Stuart Tauber, Executive Director
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Trustees, Faculty, and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health are deeply saddened by the passing of Hermann Merkin, who was a generous supporter of The Mount Sinai Medical Center for many years. With his wife, Ursula, Mr. Merkin was a long-time member of the Committee of 1000, and he was a major donor and among the leaders in the establishment of the kosher kitchen in the hospital's Guggenheim Pavilion, as well as a benefactor to the Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute. He will be remembered most fondly, with gratitude for his philanthropy. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his widow Ursula, to his children, to his grandchildren and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Theresa A. Bischoff, Executive Vice President
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Religious Zionists of America Mizrachi Hapoel Hamizrachi deeply mourns the passing of its dedicated leader, a great lover of Torah and Zion, prominent benefactor, past president and honorary president of the organization. Our heartfelt condolences to Ursula and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Simcha Krauss, President Rabbi Rafael Grossman Chairman of the Board Matthew Maryles, First Vice Pres. Dr. Norman Lamm Honorary President Rabbi Sol Roth, Honorary Pres. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Honorary President Israel Friedman, Exec. Vice Pres.
        MERKIN - Hermann. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva records with deep sorrow the passing of a great philanthropist, Jewish leader and devoted friend and supporter of the State of Israel and Yeshivot Bnei Akiva, the premier Religious Zionist educational movement. Mr. Merkin was the founding Chairman of AFYBA and the first recipient of its coveted Yaakov Herzog Memorial Award. We extend deepest condolences to his wife Ursula, children, grandchildren and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marvin S. Bienenfeld, Chairman Joel M. Schreiber, President Rabbi David Warshaw, Exec Dir
        MERKIN-Hermann. Ariel American Friends of Midrasha and United Israel Institutions mourn deeply the passing of the Honorary Chairman of our Board of Governors, Hermann Merkin z''l, a pillar of strength and a leader of American Jewish Orthodoxy. His great work for Torah, Zion and the Jewish people will long be remembered. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Ulla, his sons and daughters, and all members of his family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Shear Yashuv Cohen Chancellor Natalio S. Fridman, President Lawrence A. Kobrin, Chairman Michael D. Jaspan, Treasurer
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Officers, Members of the Board of Directors, and Staff of Medical Development for Israel, on behalf of the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, express their deep sorrow on the passing of Hermann Merkin, who together with his beloved wife Ursula, have been generous benefactors of this critical care hospital for the children of Israel and the Middle East. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Ursula, and to the entire family. H. Irwin Levy, Chairman Shlomit Manson, National Executive Director Alfred Mackler, Administrative Consultant
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Jewish Center of Atlantic Beach records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member and Past Chairman of the Board, Hermann Merkin, husband of Ulla Merkin. He was a source of honor, wisdom, dignity and strength to our synagogue, community and the Jewish people, and will be sorely missed. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and know no further sorrow. Dr. Basil Herring, Rabbi Arthur Udell, President Armand Lindenbaum, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Board of Directors of Be'er Hagolah Institutes express their deep sorrow on the passing of Hermann Merkin, beloved supporter of the Be'er Hagolah. We extend our hearfelt condolences to his son, our dear friend and patron, Ezra Merkin and his wife Ursula, children, and their entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marc Ratzersdorfer, President Richard L. Hirsch, Vice President Pearl Kaufman, Director
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Aleph Society mourns the loss of our dear friend, Hermann Merkin. Our sincere condolences to his wife Ursula, and his entire family. His righteousness is reflected in his children and grandchildren, in their achievements and their good deeds. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz Jack Nash, Chairman Ludwig Bravmann, President
        MERKIN-Hermann. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Hermann Merkin, beloved husband of our Chair Ulla Merkin. Mr. Merkin was a staunch supporter of Re'uth and contributed generously to our cause. To Ulla, the children and grandchildren, our heartfelt condolences. The Re'uth Organization
      