
        von LIEBIG-William J., an honored inventor, entrepreneur and philanthropist died on Sunday, February 21, 1999 at Mayo Hospital in Scottsdale, Arizona. Born in Huntingdon, Pennsylvania, William von Liebig earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Juniata College, a Masters of Science degree from the Philadelphia College of Textiles and Sciences and a Masters of Business Administration from New York University. During World War II, he served as Alternate Lead Pilot with the 8th Air Force in Europe. The operations officer to whom he reported was Lieutenant Colonel Jimmy Stewart with the famous 389th Bomb Group. He received the Distinguished Flying Cross Medal with three Oak Leaf Clusters and a Presidential Citation for his military service. After the war, he embarked on a career in textile sales and manufacturing which coupled with his interest in medicine, led to the development of Meadox Medicals, Inc. in 1961. Meadox Medicals manufactured and distributed vascular grafts and other devices designed to treat cardiovascular disease. Mr. von Liebig holds 33 patents for vascular prostheses and his inventions have made significant contributions to the field of vascular surgery, particularly to the technological advancement of textile vascular grafts used in the reconstruction and replacement of human arteries. Over the years, he received a host of achievement awards including the Gold Hektoen Award from the American Medical Association, the 1995 Independent Inventor of the Year Award from the New Jersey Institute of Technology and the Carothers Medal from the Textile Institute in England. In 1991, Mr. von Liebig received the national Alumni Achievement Award from Juniata College in Huntingdon, Pennsylvania. In 1975 he established The von Liebig Foundation which generously supports medical research, primarily for the treatment of vascular and cardiovascular diseases. In 1981, the Foundation established an award for Residents and Fellows to be granted annually to encourage and recognize research among young trainees interested in a career in vascular surgery. The von Liebig Foundation and the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute jointly funded a grant to the Lifeline Foundation in 1998 to sponsor the Mentored Clinical Scientist Development Awards for the benefit of vascular surgeon scientists in the early stages of their research careers. The purpose of the award is to support the development of clinician research scientists. In 1990, William von Liebig and his wife, Suzanne, relocated to Naples, Florida. They have continued their philanthropic efforts expanding their mission to affect an even broader population. Together they have supported the arts and education with substantial gifts to Juniata College and, in their community, the Naples Philharmonic, the von Liebig Art Center and the Naples Depot. Surviving family include his loving wife, Suzanne, of Naples, Florida, his sister, Edith Liebig of Huntingdon, Pennsylvania, his daughter and son-in-law, Barbara and Bill Thomashower of New York City, and his grandchildren, David and Charley. Memorial services will be held in New York City on March 23, 1999 at the Campbell Funeral Chapel at 4:00pm and in Naples, Florida on March 31, 1999 at the Daniels Pavilion of The Naples Philharmonic at 4:00pm. In lieu of flowers, the family has requested that contributions be made to the von Liebig Art Center Endowment Fund. Mailing address: The von Liebig Art Center, 585 Park Street, Naples, FL 34102.
      