
        RUDORFER-Seymour. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are profoundly saddened by the passing of Seymour Rudorfer, a cherished friend, beloved leader, and dedicated supporter, who left a legacy of hope for all those touched by his extraordinary generosity and concern. Mr. Rudorfer played a vital role as chair and one of the founders of UJA-Federation's Long Island Program Services Cabinet. He was instrumental in forging a strong partnership between UJA-Federation and our agencies. A devoted leader deeply committed to Jewish causes, he was a member of UJA-Federation's Board of Directors and Long Island Cabinet, and was involved in numerous aspects of our organization. He also served as a member of the board of directors of The Rosalind and Joseph Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center of Long Island, and as former president of the Sid Jacobson Jewish Community Center, both beneficiary agencies. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Anita; his children, Linda Lefton, and Linda's husband, Steven, Janet Irlander, and Janet's husband, Sam, and Henry, and Henry's wife, Dara; and his grandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Martin Rosenman, LI Cabinet Chair Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        RUDORFER-Seymour. With profound sadness, the Board of Directors, Administration and Residents of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center mourn the passing of Seymour Rudorfer, a founding member of our Board of Directors. Seymour was among those earliest donors whose vision, involvement and advocacy helped bring Gurwin to the preeminent facility it is today. He was a respected member of the Long Island business and philanthropic community, and will be missed. Our heartfelt condolences to Anita and the entire family. Joseph Gurwin, President Alfred W. Levy, Chairman of the Board Herbert H. Friedman, Exec VP
        RUDORFER-Seymour. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed past president, treasurer, finance chairman and board member Seymour Rudorfer and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Anita and children Linda, Janet and Henry, and grandchildren. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club Barry Swidler, President Robert Fensterman, Secretary
        RUDORFER-Seymour. The Sid Jacobson Jewish Community Center mourns the passing of our Board Member, past President and community leader. His leadership, warmth and humanity will be sorely missed. Kathy Nadel, President Susan Bender, Executive Director
      