
        GOULD-Milton S. Age 89, born in Manhattan, October 8, 1909, died March 22, 1999. Husband of the late Eleanor. Father of Patricia Booth, Judson and Jonathan. Grandfather of Eliza, Alexander, Olivia, Eleanor and Oliver. Brother of Hinda Rosenthal and the late Walter. Memorial service to be announced. A great judge once said to Milton, ''Mr. Gould, you have not wasted one moment of this court's time.'' Contributions in his memory may be made to the Anti-Defamation League, 823 UN Plaza, New York, NY 10017, or the Central Park Conservancy, 14 East 60th St., New York, NY 10022.
        GOULD-Milton S. The Cornell Law School community joins us in honoring with great fondness and respect Milton S. Gould, a distinguished professional, author and colleague, patriarch of a Cornell family, loyal and active alumnus, and Foremost Benefactor. A true friend and champion of the School, Milt was influential and inspirational to generations of students and fellow attorneys. Through their commitment and benevolence Milton and Eleanor Gould were deeply engaged in the academic life of their alma mater, and they will be missed. May their family be comforted by the fine legacy left by this exceptional couple. Charles W. Wolfram Russell K. Osgood Peter W. Martin Roger C. Cramton W. Ray Forrester Gray Thoron Deans, Cornell Law School
        GOULD-Milton. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Milton Gould, an ADL activist and supporter for more than fifty years. As Chairman of ADL's Lawyer's Committee for twenty years, Milton guided our civil rights and legal agenda. He was instrumental in the effort to ferret out Nazis who had illegally entered the U.S. We will miss his wise counsel. We extend our deepest condolences to his children Patricia, Judson and Jonathan and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director Arnold Forster, General Counsel
        GOULD-Milton S. The law firm of Camhy Karlinsky & Stein LLP mourns the passing of our great friend and mentor. We shall cherish the memory and inspiration of a great man and a great lawyer forever.
      