
        COHEN-Jay. The Trustees, Faculty, Staff and Students of Mount Sinai School of Medicine are profoundly saddened by the passing of our cherished friend and esteemed colleague Jay Cohen, who retired last summer after serving Mount Sinai School of Medicine for more than three decades as Director of Admissions, Assistant Dean for Admissions and Student Affairs, Financial Aid Officer, and Bursar. A man of extraordinary integrity, he was admired for his exceptional dedication to both the School and its students, on whose behalf he worked tirelessly. Respected for his knowledge and skills, he was as warm and personable as he was talented. He will be sorely missed, but his memory will endure through the establishment of a scholarship fund in his name. We extend our sincerest sympathy to his wife, Marilyn, daughter Debbie, son Mitchell, to his grandchildren and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean
        COHEN-Jay, A. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our beloved colleague and friend. Having served the School with loyalty and devotion for over thirty years, Mr. Cohen was to be presented, this April, with The Mount Sinai Alumni Special Recognition Award, a reflection of the deep esteem and affection in which he was held by the entire Mount Sinai community. Jay brought a gentle humor, a quiet steadiness and respect for people to all his encounters and leaves a legacy of excellence and caring that his colleagues, students and friends will always treasure. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Marilyn, his children and grandchildren. Wayne S. Fuchs, M.D., President Avi Barbasch, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, Treasurer
        COHEN-Jay. The Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, administration, faculty, and students would like to express our deepest condolences on the passing of Jay Cohen, our former Assistant Dean for Admissions and Student Affairs, Director of Financial Aid and Bursar. Jay was an esteemed colleague who dedicated his entire professional life to the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine. Jay had an unwavering loyalty to the School and uncompromising commitment to excellence. Thousands of students benefited from his wisdom and guidance. We express our deepest sympathies to his wife Marilyn, and children Debbie and Mitchell. Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh Alex Stagnaro-Green, MD Barry Stimmel, MD Terry Krulwich, PhD
        COHEN-Jay. The Board of Governors and members of Willow Ridge Country Club sadly notes the passing of Jay Cohen, a beloved member of this club. Our deepest condolences are offered to his wife, Marilyn and their entire family. Nat Adler, President Board of Governors
      