
        WARDWELL-Allen, 64. Died March 1 of a heart attack while vacationing in Colorado. He was a preeminent specialist in the art of the Northwest Coast Indian shaman, and a senior consultant in American Indian Art and Tribal Art at Christie's in New York. Educated at Groton, Yale, and New York University, Wardwell opted not to pursue a career in law-his grandfather founded the law firm of Davis, Polk and Wardwell, in which his father was a partnerchoosing instead to find work through his passion for fine art. After receiving his Master's in Art History, Wardwell served as head of the Primitive Art Dept at the Art Institute of Chicago from 1960-1973, and was director of the Asia Society Gallery, New York, from 1974-1984. From 1986 to 1990 Wardwell was director of the Isamu Noguchi Garden Museum in New York. He also taught university courses at various times and, among his many consulting activities was curatorial consultant for African and Oceanic Art at the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. Wardwell was the author of several books and catalogues within his fields, including the recently published study of Northwest Coast shamanic Indian art, ''Tangible Visions''. Wardwell was also passionate about music and dancing, went frequently to the Rainbow Room, and could be seen dancing on his roller skates almost every weekend in Central Park. Allen leaves his wife Sally, a daughter Lelia, his sons William and Alexander, his granddaughter Sarah, two sisters Lelia Seidner and Helen DuBois, and his aunt Clarissa Pell. He was the father-in-law of Deborah Wardwell, Henriette Wardwell, and Edmund Mander. He is also survived by several cousins, nieces and nephews and many, many friends. For details about a celebration of Allen's life, please call Edmund Mander 212-665-5373.
        WARDWELL-Allen. The trustees, staff & friends of the Asia Society mourn the loss of Allen Wardwell, former Director of the Asia Society Galleries (1974-1984) and Honorary Friend of Asian Arts. Allen mounted over 30 exhibitions on the arts of Asia and oversaw the installation of the renowned Mrs. and Mrs. John D. Rockefeller III Collection of Asian Art at our Park Avenue headquarters. In addition to his work with the Asia Society, Allen was of exemplary service to a great number of other institions, sharing his expertise on topics ranging from Northwest Coast Shamanic Indian art to traditional Japanese art. Allen remained a close friend, advisor and supporter of Asia Society activities throughout his accomplished life. Our deep condolences go out to to his loving wife Sally, his children and other family members. Allen will be missed by all of us at the Asia Society and by everyone who knew him.
        WARDWELL-Allen. The neighbors of Allen Wardwell at 88 express their profound sadness and offer condolences to his wife, Sally, and to their three children and families. His joy of home, family, culturual pursuits, park, dog, study, and travel was a stimulant to all he met. His zest for life and unsurpassable style will be missed.
        WARDWELL-Allen. The Board of Directors and the staff of the Isamu Noguchi Foundation, Inc. extend their deepest sympathy to Sally Wardwell for the loss of her husband, Allen. We shall miss him. Our thoughts and prayers are with Sally and her family. Isaac Shapiro, President
      