
        HOLLAND-S. Emil. Beloved husband of Anne and the late Mildred, loving brother of the late Sadie Zatt, Jack and Louis Holland, and Sylvia Orkin. Devoted father of Cora and Ted Ginsberg, Dede and Michael Thea. Adored stepfather of Greg Meidel. Cherished grandfather of Amy and Steven, Debbie and John, Peter and Katie, Wendy and David, Gaby and Rob, Jennifer and George, Deena and Mark. Cherished great-grandfather of 16 great-grandchildren. Loving uncle and grand uncle. Funeral service Thursday, March 18, 1999, 11:15 AM at The ''Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC.
        HOLLAND-S. Emil. Poppy-you were a true patriarch. You taught us how to have a loving and generous heart. We will love, cherish and miss you always. We know that you considered us, your grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren to be your greatest legacy. He's our Poppy, what a Poppy. Amy, Steven, Daniel, Matthew and Marissa. Debbie, John, Zach and Benjamin. Peter, Katie, Willie, Maddie and Gregory. Gaby, Rob, Alex and Jason. Jennifer, George, Mitchell, Abigail and Elizabeth. Wendy, David, Robert and Andrew. Deena, Mark and Molly.
        HOLLAND-S. Emil. Kind, caring, loving man to his family, Greg, and to our sister and wife Anne. The Gibson Family Jack, Phil, Bill and their families
        HOLLAND-Emil. Uncle Emil, you showed us how to live life to the fullest. You will always be in our hearts. Susan, Fred, Roz and Stu Orkin
        HOLLAND-Emile. Field Travel Service mourns the loss of Emile Holland, father of our colleague, Dede Thea. We shall miss our lifelong friend and mentor. We extend our sympathies to Anne Holland, Dede and Michael Thea, Cora and Ted Ginsberg, and the entire family. Dorothy and Michael Paley
        HOLLAND-S. Emil. Dearest, kind, caring, wonderful man, devoted father to his lovely family and stepson Greg, beloved husband to Anne, my best friend. Nancy Rice, Nanette and Jim and their families
        HOLLAND-S. Emil. A dear friend and long-time member of the Woodmere Club. Our deepest sympathy to the family. The Woodmere Club
      