
        FABIANI-Dante C. Retired President and member of the Board of Directors of Crane Co., New York, NY passed away Saturday, March 20, 1999 at the age of 81. He was born in Waterbury, Connecticut, the son of Rosato and Barbara Poscente Fabiani. He received his early education in Waterbury and graduated from Crosby High School in that city in 1934. A 1938 graduate of Tri-State University, Angola, Indiana, with a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting, Mr. Fabiani made a lifelong commitment to his alma mater. He was elected to the Board of Trustees in 1967, served as Chairman of its Development Committee for eight years, and was awarded a Doctor of Business Administration degree in 1973. He was the first alumnus to Tri-State to serve as its Chairman of the Board of Trustees, a position he held from 1976 to 1979. After serving as Chairman he accepted the responsibility of chairing the endowment campaign to bring TriState into its second century with financial resources to ensure the university's solid position as a small private educational institution. In 1979 he was elected Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Trustees and was the 1980 commencement speaker. A strong believer in the free enterprise system, Mr. Fabiani often encouraged young people to work within this system to find ways to meet energy and natural resource needs, be willing and prepared to take educated risks with their own capital and skills in the future, and to strive to innovate new & better methods of production. Mr. Fabiani's career in corporate America began in 1938 and spanned more than fifty years. The early years included positions with Auburn Rubber Corp., General Electric Co., Continental Can Co., and Standard Products Co. He joined Townsend Co., New Brighton, PA, as a director and secretary-treasurer. At H.K. Porter, Pittsburgh, PA, he served as vice president/finance. He then went on to serve as director and vice president/finance at McDonnell Aircraft Corp., St. Louis, MO. In 1960 Mr. Fabiani joined Crane Co., as vice president and assumed the presidency and a directorship in 1961, positions he held continuously until his retirement in 1980. During his career and after retirement Mr. Fabiani continued to serve on many corporate boards. These included Crane Co., Textron Inc., Northview Corp., CF&I Steel Corp., Huttug Sash & Door Co., Cambrian & General Securities, p.l.c. and Pirelle Enterprises Corp. Mr. Fabiani is survived by his wife, Virginia Parnham Fabiani of Southbury, CT; two daughters, Barbara Henriques of Lee, MA., and Kathryn Bartholomew of Williamsport, PA; one son, James Fabiani of McLean, VA; & five granddaughters.
      