
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Yeshiva University family expresses profound sorrow on the passing of a longtime friend, a distinguished philanthropist and communal leader in America and Israel who was senior vice chairman of YU's Board of Trustees and a Board member for three decades, including service as acting chairman. An honorary alumnus, he was a Benefactor with his wife, Ursula, advancing a wide range of University programs. In recognition of their major gift, YU's Teachers Institute for Men was renamed Isaac Breuer College of Hebraic Studies to memorialize Mrs. Merkin's renowned father. Mr. Merkin established the Leib Merkin Distinguished Professorial Chair in Talmud and Jewish Philosophy at our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary in memory of his eminent father-a chair long held by the late revered Rabbi Joseph B. Soloveitchik. A founding member of the Boards of YU's Yeshiva College, Stern College for Women, and Sy Syms School of Business, he formerly served on the Boards of Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, and Wurzweiler School of Social Work. He was an outstanding humanitarian whose benefactions covered many institutions and individuals, and he was a deeply faithful and observant Jew who was learned in the classical sources of the tradition. His life was truly a blessing. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Ursula; children, Dinah (and Andrew) Mendes, Deborah (and Nathaniel) Gerber, Ezra (and Lauren) Merkin, Daphne Merkin, Solomon Nehemiah (and Sharon) Merkin, and Rabbi David Elisha (and Rebecca) Merkin; sister, Eva Bondi; grandchildren; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        MERKIN-Hermann. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of their colleague, Honorary Alumnus of the University and a member of the Board of the University's founders since its establishment, Hermann Merkin. We extend sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Ursula, and the entire family. Mr. Merkin was a philanthropist of note, a very knowledgeable Jew, not only in the literature of Judaism, but also all of its happenings of the past and in the present. He had a profound command of the traditions to which he and his very scholarly wife were committed with their hearts and soulsand in its light they raised a family that is a pride and joy to our people here and in Israel. We share their sense of loss, its an overwhelming loss to our cause and many others here and abroad. We pray that they will derive comfort from continued involvement through long and healthful lives. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Bar-Ilan University Professor Moshe Kaveh, Pres. Bar-Ilan University Melvin Stein, President American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Charles Dimston, Chairman American Board of Trustees Bar-Ilan University Brig. Gen. (Ret.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President Bar-Ilan University
        MERKIN-Hermann. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its dedicated Founding President, beloved husband of Ursula and devoted father of its esteemed Vice President, Ezra Merkin, and member, Dinah Mendes. He was a man of indomitable spirit, intellectual power, and a Talmid Chacham, par excellence. He projected a classic vision of Jewish life which is today reflected in the character of our synagogue. He distinguished himself as a leader, and philanthropically, in behalf of Torah institutions and the State of Israel in exemplary ways. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his wife Ursula, President of our Women's Chevra Kadisha, and to all in the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President, Shelley Goren, Solomon Trau, Honorary Chairmen, Victor Barnett, Ira Leon Rennert, Martin Romerovski, Honorary Presidents
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Hermann Merkin, an outstanding philanthropist dedicated to education, culture, the sciences, and the State of Israel. He will long be remembered for his leadership and generous support of many important institutions that form the foundation of Jewish community life, at home and abroad. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Ursula; his children, Ezra, Solomon, David, Dina Mendes, Deborah Gerber, and Daphne Brod, and all members of the family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of one of the great leaders and philanthropists in American Jewish life. Deeply devoted to the economic growth and development of the State of Israel, he was a distinguished member of the Israel Bonds President's Club and a driving force behind our program at Fifth Avenue Synagogue. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Ursula and the entire family. Gideon Patt, President and CEO Burton P. Resnick, Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg, National Campaign Chairman Howard Hirsch, Chairman, Metropolitan N.Y. Campaign
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Jewish Campus Life Fund mourns the loss of an esteemed member of our Executive Committee. Mr. Merkin was a generous supporter of Jewish student programming at Columbia University and Barnard College. His leadership, counsel and philanthropy for many years were greatly appreciated. We extend our condolences to all the members of his family. Dr. Robert Pollack, President Earle W. Kazis, Chairman of the Board Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, Executive Committee Chair Charles H. Sheer, Rabbi The Jewish Campus Life Fund At Columbia University
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Board of Trustees and the entire Elaine Kaufman Cultural Center community mourn the passing of Honorary Chairman Hermann Merkin. His vision, generosity, wisdom and beliefs helped set the tone for a Center dedicted to the preservation of the Jewish cultural heritage. May his beloved wife Ursula and his children and grandchildren be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Leonard Goodman, Chairman Elaine Kaufman, President Tzipora H. Jochsberger, Founding Director Lydia Kontos, Exec. Dir.
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved father of its devoted alumnus, Trustee and generous benefactor, J. Ezra Merkin. The Jewish community has lost one of its grand elder statesmen. He left a great legacy of communal leadership for his children and grandchildren. May they all be comforted among all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        MERKIN-Hermann. With heads bowed, we are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend, Hermann Merkin. A member of the Founders Society, Mr. Merkin was an ardent supporter of The Open University of Israel. Heartfelt condolences to Ursula and the Merkin family. May his memory be for a blessing. Irving M. Rosenbaum, Chairman Ingeborg Rennert, NY Chair Eric G. Heffler, Executive VP American Friends of The Open University of Israel
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Board of Directors and Officers of PEC Israel Economic Corporation note with deep sorrow the passing of Hermann Merkin, a director of PEC. For the thirty-three years he served as a director, Mr. Merkin provided his guidance and wisdow to the successful operation of PEC. We shall sorely miss his friendship and valued advice. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. PEC Israel Economic Corporation
        MERKIN-Hermann. Park East Synagogue mourns the death of Hermann Merkin, a towering Torah personality and guardian of Israel, who was at the helm of our neighboring Fifth Avenue Synagogue. May his beloved wife Ulla, his children and grandchildren find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        MERKIN-Hermann. We remember so fondly the closeness of our families recalling the warm relationship between Hermann and our late parents O.B.M. We pay tribute to the memory of a man who was a philanthropic leader; an intellectural giant; a true ''talmid chochom'' and a man dedicted to his family and Yiddishkeit. Sincere condolences to our beloved Ulla and to his children and grandchildren. The Schwalbe Family
        MERKIN-Hermann. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, its Sisterhood, Men's Club & Couples Club mourn the passing of their devoted senior and longtime member, the beloved husband of Ulla Merkin and the revered father of our devoted member, J. Ezra Merkin. We extend heartfelt sympathy to all members of the bereaved family. Haskel Lookstein, Rabbi Joshua Lookstein, Assistant Rabbi Fred Distenfeld, President
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the distinguished and prominent father of its longtime devoted member, Dinah Mendes, and father-inlaw of its dedicated officer Andrew Mendes. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood
        MERKIN-Hermann. The leadership, staff, and performing artists associated with the Elaine Kaufman Cultural Center's Merkin Concert Hall mourn the passing of Hermann Merkin. He and his beloved wife Ursula gave their name to one of the music world's finest gems. Charles Dimston, Chair, Merkin Hall Participating Board Vicki Margulies, Dir., Merkin Hall
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Board of Directors and Officers of Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc. note with sadness the passing of our long time friend and director, Hermann Merkin. Mr. Merkin's wise counsel and dedication played an important role in the growth of our Company. To his wife, Ursula, his children, grandchildren and all those who loved him, we extend our heartfelt condolences.
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Trustees, Officers and Staff of the Caroline and Joseph S. Gruss Life Monument Funds mourn the passing of Hermann Merkin, father of our devoted board member J. Ezra Merkin. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Martin D. Gruss, Chairman Jack Nash, Vice Chairman Jason G. Cury, President
        MERKIN-Hermann. Deeply saddened by the death of our special, dearly beloved friend, Hermann Merkin, of blessed memory. He was our mentor and guide for many years. We will sorely miss him, his advice and council. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Beryl and Solomon Trau
        MERKIN-Hermann. We record with profound sorrow the passing of Hermann Merkin, beloved husband of Ursula, the revered advisor and mentor to the Women's Club of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. Anne Hiltzik, Chairperson Maidy Jeger, Beryl Trau, Presidium
        MERKIN-Hermann. The New York Board of Rabbis and its Lay Advisory Council mourn the passing of its member and and extends warm condolences to his family. Rabbi Marc Schneier, President Rabbi Gilbert Rosenthal, Exec VP Armand Lindenbaum, President Lay Advisory Council Mortimer Propp, Chr Advsry Cncl
        MERKIN-Hermann. We will sorely miss our friend, the perfect gentleman, Hermann Merkin. His love for Torah, his wisdom, charm and kindness, will remain an inspiration. To Ulla and the entire family our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur and Elisabeth Schneier
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Board of Directors of Israel Discount Bank of New York mourns the passing of our esteemed former Director, Hermann Merkin. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Arie Sheer, President
        MERKIN-Hermann. The Friends of the Israel Defense Forces deeply mourns the passing of a devoted supporter of the soldiers of Israel. To his beloved wife, Ursula, and to the entire family, our sincere condolences. John Klein
        MERKIN-Hermann. With a broken heart, I extend my deepest sympathy to the family. My personal friend and counselor who played an important role in my own career, Hermann Merkin. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman
        MERKIN - Hermann. Esteemed Trustee of the Medical Research Foundation of Israel. Condolences to his wife Ulla and children Ezra, Daphne and David. Derek Enlander, President Lawrence Friedland, Vice Pres
      