
        CASEY-J. Joseph. Retired corporate executive. Died March 5, 1999 in Belvedere, CA, following a brief illness. He was 77. Born in Boston on July 12, 1921, Mr. Casey grew up in New York and received his Bachelor's Degree from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Service in 1942. A veteran of World War II, Mr. Casey served as a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy in the South Pacific from 1942-1946. Mr. Casey began his forty-year career in the construction industry with Wm. Casey & Sons, Inc. From 1957-1967, Mr. Casey served as V.P. and Controller of Raymond Int'l. In July, 1967, Mr. Casey moved to Hawaii to become a V.P. for Dillingham Corp., an international construction, energy and maritime company headquartered in Honolulu. During his twenty years with Dillingham, Mr. Casey frequently served as a ''troubleshooter'' for various divisions and subsidiaries in Hawaii, Australia and California. From 1982 until his retirement in 1987, Mr. Casey was President and C.E.O. of Dillingham. He was a member of several professional organizations including the Moles, Beavers, and Financial Executives Institute. An avid sailor throughout his life, Mr. Casey was a well-known racer on the waters of Long Island Sound, Honolulu, Sidney and San Francisco Bay. At the time of his death, Mr. Casey was an active member of the San Francisco based Knarr Fleet. Mr. Casey was married to Lynn Fallon Casey from 1948-1973 and to Marlene Forde Casey from 1973-1993. He is survived by his four children, Robin Casey and husband, Lou Kimball of Austin, TX; Todd Casey and wife, Joan of Northfield, MA; Reid Casey and wife, Barbara of Fremont, CA; and Ian Joseph Casey of San Francisco; his six grandchildren, Ben, Sean, Caitlin, Dylan, Alex and Flynn; his sister and brother-inlaw, Lillian and George Bantz; and brother James Casey. Mr. Casey was pre-deceased by his parents, William and Katherine Casey; his sister, Mary Romaine; and brother Bill Casey. A memorial service for Mr. Casey will be held on March 9, 1999, at Saint Hilary's Church in Tiburon, CA, followed by a gathering of family and friends at San Francisco Yacht Club. Memorial contributions in Mr. Casey's name may be made to the United Way, 50 California, San Francisco, CA.
      