
        ELION-Gertrude B. The Hunter College Foundation mourns the passing of Gertrude Elion, a Nobel Prize winner in Medicine whom Hunter College also knew as a loyal alumna. A longtime trustee of The Hunter College Foundation, she supported her alma mater throughout her long and productive life and served as a role model to generations of Hunter students-especially women-who aspired to a career in science. She was instrumental in the development of a host of drugs to combat some of the most virulent diseases known, and she was active in the professional community: she was president of the American Association for Cancer Research, a member of the National Cancer Advisory Board, and a member of the National Academy of Sciences, among others. Though officially retired for a number of years, she continued to teach and conduct research. She received more than 25 honorary doctorates, including one from Hunter College, which will always remember her for both her scientific accomplishments and her generosity to her College. Allan H. Kurtzman, Chair Floria V. Lasky, Co-Chair The Hunter College Foundation
        ELION-Gertrude B. The entire Hunter College community is deeply saddened by the loss of Gertrude Elion, a 1937 graduate of Hunter who was awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1988. During a long and distinguished career as a pioneering research scientist, she helped develop drugs to combat leukemia, septic shock, malaria, organ transplantation rejection, and AIDS. A member of the Hunter College Hall of Fame, she was awarded the President's Medal in 1970. When she received an honorary doctorate from Hunter in 1989, the Burroughs Wellcome Company, the pharmaceutical company where she had worked since 1944, established a scholarship endowment fund in her honor. The fund assists Hunter women pursuing careers in science. Dr. Elion will be remembered for her generosity and warmth in working with students as well as for her many contributions to mankind. She will be sorely missed. David A. Caputo, President Hunter College
      