
        KRUEGER-Harold Ernest. It is with the greatest sadness that his family announces the death of Harold Ernest Krueger on March 18, 1999 after a brief fight with cancer. Born November 16, 1912 in Tomahawk, Wisconsin, Mr. Krueger graduated from high school in 1930 in Wausau, Wisconsin, and went on to work as an insurance adjuster. Following service in the United States Army as a pilot, 1941-1945, he embarked on a successful career as a lumber broker, a director of the Newberry State Bank, and owner of the Falls Building Supply in Newberry, Michigan, until his retirement in 1980. He was a member of the order of the Elks and a 32nd degree Mason. He was a devoted husband and father, a raconteur and humorist extraordinaire, a musician, an avid fisherman, an outdoorsman, and, in his later years, a golfer, and possessed of a personality loved by all. He was preceded in death by his parents, August and Adele Krueger, of Wausau, Wisconsin, and a brother, Louis Krueger, of Eau Claire, Wisconsin. He was married to Marvel Bohn Krueger of Newberry, Michigan, until her death in 1985. He is survived by and will be sorely missed by his wife, Aloha Krueger, of Gulf Stream, Florida; his son and daughter-in-law, Dr. Richard Krueger and Dr. Meg Kaplan, of New York City; his daughter, Marilyn Krueger, of Los Angeles; his stepdaughter, Sharon Osmolofsky, of Kensington, Maryland; his granddaughter, Tena Gilbreath, of Los Angeles; his granddaughter, Molly Krueger, of New York City; his brother, Norman Krueger, of Wausau, Wisconsin; and his sister, Marge Erickson, of Medford, Wisconsin, as well as his many nieces and nephews. Contributions in lieu of flowers should be sent to the Hospice by the Sea in Boca Raton, Florida or to the RP Hicks Memorial Hospice in Newberry, Michigan. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, March 25, 1999 at 1:00 P.M., at Our Redeemer Lutheran Church in Newberry, Michigan, with a reception to celebrate his life to follow at his home in Newberry.
      