
        SHINN-Richard R. The directors, officers and employees of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company express sadness at the death of our former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Richard R. Shinn. In true Horatio Alger fashion, he rose from the mail desk in 1939 to head the company. He spent a distinguished forty-nine year career at MetLife, where his dynamic leadership and personal warmth are legendary. Mr. Shinn was elected president in 1969 and assumed the additional position of chief executive officer in 1973. He became chairman of the board and chief executive officer in 1980. He retired in 1983 and continued service to the company as a director until 1988, and thereafter as a valued advisor. Ever a modest man, he attributed his success to good luck and timing. Mr. Shinn guided the company through a decade of tremendous change. Under his direction, MetLife entered multi-line marketing, established regional offices around the country and formed new subsidiaries. Mr. Shinn was known for his energy and common touch. Widely respected for his business acumen, his guidance was sought by corporations, business and charitable organizations. A member of many boards and commissions, he gave generously of his time and talent. His commitment to New York City in good times and bad was unwavering. He earned the respect of business and civic leaders for his wisdom and his gift as a problem solver. His untiring devotion to civic and community activities left us in awe of his drive and ability. The MetLife family extends its sympathy to his wife, Marion, two daughters, Kathleen Clark and Patricia Grossthanner, and his son, John, a MetLife vice president, and his grandchildren and greatchildren. We will miss our friend and colleague, Dick Shinn. We are richer for the privilege of having known him.
        SHINN-Richard. It is with heartfelt sadness that the Board, Staff, and friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Richard Shinn. A dear friend and tireless leader, Mr. Shinn served us as an esteemed member and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, as Director Emeritus, and Co-Chair of the Directors Emeriti Council. He was also the Chairman and CEO of MetLife and the Executive ViceChairman of the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Shinn generously gave of himself through his service on numerous Lincoln Center committees, including the Committee for the Future, the Steering Committee for the 25th Anniversary Celebration, and the New Building Committee. Mr. Shinn's warmth, faith, energy, and fierce dedication to this institution have been a source of inspiration for us all. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Marion, his daughters, Kathleen Clark and Patricia Grossthanner, his son, John, and his seven grandchildren. He will be deeply missed by us and all who knew him. Beverly Sills, Chairman Martin E. Segal, Chairman Emeritus Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        SHINN-Richard R. The Sisters of Charity, Board of Trustees, Auxiliary, the Medical Staff, the Administration and Staff of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center note with sadness the death of our longtime friend and dedicated Trustee Emeritus. Mr. Shinn was appointed to Saint Vincent's Board of Trustees in 1980 and served with distinction as Vice Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Finance Committee. He was instrumental in building the hospital's endowment and ensuring fiscal stability. In 1987 he was named a Trustee Emeritus and continued to demonstrate a keen understanding of Saint Vincent's mission and an abiding commitment to excellence in healthcare. That same year he was awarded the United Hospital Fund's Distinguished Community Service Award for bringing his expertise to the challenges facing Saint Vincents. We extend our deepest condolences to his entire family.
        SHINN-Richard R. The Barnard College community mourns the loss of Richard R. Shinn, valued friend and adviser, who served as a Barnard trustee from 1985 through 1994, including five years as vice chair. In all he did, he brought experience, sound judgment and leadership to bear on Barnard's behalf and with his wife, Marion Berenson Shinn '45, created a scholarship fund to open Barnard's doors to generations of young women. The entire Barnard community extends its heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Judith Shapiro, President Gayle Robinson, Chair Board of Trustees Barnard College
        SHINN-Richard R. The management and employees of Grey Advertising, Inc. mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Richard R. Shinn. Mr. Shinn's valued contributions to our worldwide company as a member of the Board of Directors since 1990, his commercial accomplishments and philanthropic efforts will be long remembered. He will be greatly missed. We extend our condolences to his wife, Marian, and their entire family. Edward H. Meyer, Grey Advertising, Inc.
        SHINN-Richard R. The Board of Trustees of St. Patrick's Cathedral records with sorrow the passing of their Vice President, Richard R. Shinn, who has served on the Board for the past 25 years with faithful and dedicated service. His wisdom, leadership and guidance will be sorely missed by the members of the Board. To his bereaved wife and children, we extend our heartfelt condolences. John Cardinal O'Connor President Rev. Msgr James K. Vaughey Executive Director
        SHINN-Richard R. The Board of Directors of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. wish to express their deep sorrow on the passing of their dear friend and esteemed colleague, Richard R. Shinn, Executive Vice Chairman of the Exchange from 1986 to 1990. His dedication and commitment to the Exchange and to the securities industry will be greatly missed. Richard A. Grasso Chairman and Chief Executive Officer New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
        SHINN-Richard R. Our hearts go out to Marion Shinn and family in sympathy over the death of our trustee emeritus and Executive Council member. Inner-City Scholarship Fund Board of Trustees, Executive Council and Staff
      