
        GERRY-Elbridge T. Died on February 26, at the age of 90, following a short illness at his home in Delhi, NY. Survived by his wife of 67 years, Marjorie Kane, two sons Elbridge T. Jr., of Locust Valley, NY, and Peter G. of Hopewell, NJ, a daughter Marjorie G. Ryland of Beverly, MA, two brothers Edward H. Gerry and Henry A. Gerry, 11 grandchildren and seven great - grandchildren. Memorial service will be held on Wednesday, March 10, 1999, at Trinity Church, Wall St and Broadway, NYC, at 10:30 AM. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Lake Delaware Boys Camp, or The Harness Racing Museum and Hall of Fame, or the New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
        GERRY-Elbridge T. The Board of Trustees of the American Museum of Natural History expresses its profound sense of loss at the death of Elbridge T. Gerry. His support and wisdom will be sorely missed by the Museum family. Mr. Gerry joined the Museum's Board of Trustees in 1958, served as Treasurer of the Board from 1964 until 1972, and was elected an Honorary Trustee in 1988. The Museum deeply appreciates the exceptional dedication of his more than 40 years of service to the institution. To his wife, Marjorie Kane, and the entire Gerry family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. Anne Sidamon-Eristoff Chairman, Board of Trustees Ellen V. Futter, President
        GERRY-Elbridge T. Members of the Board of Trustees and staff of the American Red Cross in Greater New York note with sadness the loss of Elbridge Gerry, Trustee of the Mary W. Harriman Foundation, a long-time and loyal supporter of the Red Cross in New York. We extend our deepest sympathies to the Gerry family. The American Red Cross in Greater New York Jonathan O'Herron, Chairman Robert M. Bender, Jr., Chief Executive Officer
        GERRY-Elbridge T. The Board of Directors of Lake Delaware Alumni Association, on behalf of all alumni of Lake Delaware Boys' Camp deeply mourn his loss. His dedication to improving the lives of disadvantaged boys has kept the Camp going these last 45 years. Our sympathy is extended to the Gerry family and we share in their loss. Geoffrey Dunham, President
      