
        BLAKE-Melvin N., DDS. The Board of Trustees and Medical Staff of Lennox Hill Hospital express sorrow at the passing of our colleague, Melvin N. Blake, DDS, Honorary Attending Physician. Dr. Blake, who joined the Department of Surgery in 1977, served as Chief of Dentistry and Oral Surgery from 1977 until 1989. A highly accomplished oral surgeon, he was renowned throughout his career for his knowledge of oral pathology and diseases and his outstanding diagnostic and surgical skills. He was a dedicated and gifted teacher to those many dentists and oral surgeons fortunate to have trained with him. The Lennox Hill Hospital family honors the memory of this kind and compassionate man who leaves a legacy of impressive achievements in his field. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. James S. Marcus, Chairman, Board of Trustees Gladys George, President & CEO Stephen A. Obstbaum, M.D., President, Medical Board Valavanur A. Subramanian, M.D., Director, Surgery
        BLAKE-Dr. Melvin. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation deeply mourn the loss of Dr. Melvin Blake. With his companion, the late Dr. Frank Purnell, Dr. Blake assembled one of the most significant collections of figurative art in the United States. With its emphasis on Spanish and Latin American figurative art, the collection serves not only as an affirmation of the enduring importance of the human figure, but as a testimony to the collectors' particular vision and focus. The Guggenheim Foundation was honored to present selections from the Blake-Purnell Collection as part of the inaugural year programming for the Guggenhim Musuem Bilbao. We extend our most heartfelt sympathy to the members of his family. Peter Lawson-Johnston Honorary Chairman The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation
        BLAKE-Melvin N., DDS. The Lenox Hill Hospital Alumni Association deeply regrets the passing of Melvin N. Blake, DDS, esteemed member of the Department of Surgery since 1977 and Chief, Section of Dentistry/Oral Surgery to 1989. He remained on the Honorary Staff until his passing on March 14, 1999. Dr. Blake, a dedicated and respected surgeon, teacher, mentor and renowned art collector will be deeply missed by his family, friends and colleagues, as well as the countless employees and staff who brought themselves and their families to him for guidance and care. Arthur Goldberg, M.D., President, LHH Alumni Association Pierce Ferriter, M.D., Secretary LHH Alumni Association
        BLAKE-Melvin N., D.D.S. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our long time colleague and friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Wayne S. Fuchs, .M.D., President Avi Barbasch, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, Treasurer
      