
        FRIEDMAN-Mark Jay, M.D. On March 13, 1999, of lymphoma. He was a beloved father of Robyn and Matthew, husband of Ellen, son of Eleanor and Arthur, brother of Bruce and Lainie. Loving sonin-law, brother-in-law and uncle to several nieces and nephews. A graduate of SUNY at Stony Brook and SUNY Downstate Medical Center, Mark was a respected and compassionate cardiologist, who served his patients with dignity, kindness and respect. He will be dearly missed. Contributions may be made in his memory to the Mark Jay Friedman Foundation, c/o Long Island Cardiovascular Consultants, 1129 Northern Blvd., Suite 408, Manhasset, NY 11030.
        FRIEDMAN-Mark Jay. The officers, trustees, clergy, staff and membership of Temple Sinai of Roslyn express our profound sorrow on the loss of Dr. Mark Friedman, son of our beloved administrator Eleanor Friedman and her husband Artie. We grieve together with his family; his wife Ellen, children Robyn and Matthew, his siblings Dr. Bruce Friedman and Dr. Lainie Ross. We pray that God will grant them comfort and strength and may Mark's memory be for an everlasting blessing. Funeral services, Gutterman's Woodbury, 9:30 AM Sunday. Michael A. White, Sr. Rabbi Norman Kahan, Rabbi Emeritus Daniel S. Reich, President
        FRIEDMAN-Mark Jay, M.D. Attending cardiologist North ShoreLIJ Health Care System, St. Francis and Winthrop Hospital. Esteemed colleague, compassionate and highly respected physician. Founding partner of Long Island Cardiovascular Consultants. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Ellen, children Robyn and Matthew, and his entire family. Dr. Kenneth and Hilari Cohen Dr. Ronald and Fran D'Agostino Dr. Henry and Rosa Gomez FRIEDMAN-Mark Jay. The officers and members of the Staff Society of the LI Jewish Medical Center deeply mourn the untimely passing of our friend and colleague, Mark Jay Friedman. For nearly 20 years Mark Jay epitomized the word ''physician.'' He will be missed. William Doscher, M.D., President Ira Kalfus, M.D., Vice-President Michael Frogel, M.D., Treasurer Eugene Friedman, M.D., Secy
        FRIEDMAN-Mark Jay, M.D. We mourn the loss of our treasured friend and colleague. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife Ellen, children Robyn and Matthew. We will miss his good humor, enthusiasm and his selfless devotion to us all. Queens/Nassau Gastroenterolgy Associates Dr. and Mrs. Sandford Goldberg Dr. and Mrs. Robert Lowy
      