
        CONZE-Peter H. and Elizabeth P. Peter Horst Conze and Elizabeth Powers Conze of Greenwich, Conn. died together in an auto accident in Florida on March 4. Mr. Conze was born in Brooklyn, NY June 27, 1921, son of the late Godfrey H. and Elisabeth VonRosenberg-Gruszczynski Conze. Mrs. Conze was born in NYC, January 24, 1921, the daughter of the late Walter H. and Helen Gillette Ballard Powers. Mr. and Mrs. Conze were members of Christ Church, the Belle Haven Club, Round Hill Country Club and Old Lyme Country Club. Mr. Conze graduated from Kent School, class of 1938, and was a member of the victorious Kent crew, which won the Thames Challenge Cup at the Henley Royal Regatta that year. He graduated from Princeton where he played varsity football and rugby in the class of 1942. He served as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy in the Pacific during WWII. Mr. Conze retired as Vice Chairman of Celanese Corp. in 1978. Subsequently he was a President of the Greenwich Historical Society, President of the Board of Trustees of Kent School for 21 years, a member of the New York Yacht Club, the Princeton Club and the Nutmeggers. Mrs. Conze who graduated from Rye Country Day School and attended the Katherine Gibbs School in NYC was a member of the Mayflower Society, the Green Fingers Garden Club, and the Greenwich Garden Center. She served on the Greenwich RTM. Mr. and Mrs. Conze are survived by two sons, Peter Horst Conze, Jr. of Marlborough, Ma., Frederick Ballard Conze of Darien Ct., daughter Elizabeth Bradford Conze of Tucson Ar., and ten grandchildren. The Conze's were pre-deceased by a daughter, Eliza Lansing Conze Billington. A memorial service will be held on Tuesday, March 16, at 2 PM at Christ Church, 254 East Putnam Avenue, Greenwich, CT. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Kent School for a fund to be established in memory of Peter Horst Conze and Elizabeth Powers Conze. Donations may be sent to Kent School, P.O. Box 2006, Kent Ct., 06757.
        CONZE-Peter H. and Betty. The directors of Tex Tech Holdings, Inc. are saddened and shocked by the tragic loss of our associate and his beloved wife. We extend heartfelt condolences to their children and grandchildren. Melville B. Wier, Chairman Arthur M. Spiro, President
      