
        GIBLIN-Denis R., M.D. At age 71. On February 28th, 1999. Professor of Neurology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY. Beloved son of the late Mary Robertson Gordon Giblin & Norris Giblin of Montreal. Cherished husband of Susan Schwartz-Giblin. Devoted father to Vanessa Giblin Bibby and Timothy Norris Giblin. Devoted granddaddy to Emily Sarah Bibby and loving father-in-law of Mark Bibby. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, March 1, 6-9 P.M., with service Tuesday, 1:30 PM. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Central Park Conservancy, 14 East 60th Street, New York, NY 10022.
        GIBLIN-Denis, M.D. The Staff of Jacobi Medical Center and North Central Bronx Hospital deeply mourn the passing of Denis Giblin, M.D., Senior Attending for Neurology. As a professional and outstanding teacher for more than 30 years, he will be remembered and much admired for his work with neurology resident physicians, nurses and medical students, and above all his patients. He was a superb physician and an honorable principled man who will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Joseph S. Orlando Senior Vice President North Bronx Healthcare Network Jacobi Medical Center North Central Bronx Hospital
        GIBLIN-Denis R., M.D. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of its esteemed professor of neurology, who arrived at Einstein as a senior resident and served nearly forty years as an educator and mentor. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire Giblin family. Dominick P. Purpura, M.D., Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        GIBLIN-Denis R. The faculty, staff and students of the School of Graduate Studies, SUNY Health Science Center at Brooklyn, extend our heartfelt condolences to our Dean, Susan Schwartz-Giblin, Ph.D., on the passing of her husband, Denis R. Giblin, M.D. Our sympathy is extended to their daughter, Vanessa Giblin Bibby, son, Timothy Norris Giblin, granddaughter, Emily Sarah Bibby, and son-in-law, Mark Bibby.
        GIBLIN-Dr. Denis. Clinical professor, Albert Einstein College of Medicine-Dept of Neurology: Was the heart and spirit in teaching our neurology residents, loyal friend and best mentor. His presence and contributions will be truly missed. Herbert H. Schaumburg Chairperson, Dept of Neurology Albert Einstein College of Medicine
      