
        MERESMAN-Harry. Died on March 3, 1999 at the age of 88. Beloved husband of the late Helen Chafets Meresman, devoted father of Helaine Meresman Barnett and the late Janis Meresman Goldman, adored grandfather of Craig and Jennifer Barnett, Roger Barnett, Melissa Goldman, Lori and Brett Zbar, great-grandfather of Gabriel Barnett, father-in-law extraodinaire to Victor Barnett and Michael Goldman, loving son, brother, brother-in-law, uncle and loyal, trusted and respected friend. A man whose unquestioned integrity, ethics and morality were his hallmarks and his devotion to his family, committment to his community and his pride in his profession were his passions. The high standards by which he lead his life and his impeccable reputation will remain to all who knew him as his everlasing legacy. Funeral services Friday, March 5, 1999, 1:15pm at The Riverside Chapel, 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue.
        MERESMAN-Harry. The Board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Harry Meresman, one of the Foundation's founding directors and for many years its Secretary/Treasurer. Harry served at the side of Charles Revson-as his accountant, advisor, confidante and closest of friends-from the 1930's until Mr. Revson's death in 1975. As a director of the Revson Foundation, Harry was unfailingly kind, a man with deep ethical standards and a Jewish heart. It was a privilege to work with him, and the Foundation owes much to his careful stewardship and steady guidance. Our hearts go out to his daughter, Helaine Barnett, a current director of the Foundation, to his son-in-law, Victor Barnett, a former director of the Foundation, and to his grandchildren and extended family. Robert S. Rifkind, Chairman Eli N. Evans, President
        MERESMAN-Harry. Temple Israel Center of White Plains mourns the passing of its former president, Harry Meresman. His devotion to this community, to Jewish education, to the people of Israel, and to his family and friends, remain an enduring inspiration. We extend condolences to his daughter Helaine Meresman Barnett, his sons-in-law Victor Barnett and Michael Goldman, his devoted grandchildren and his entire family. ''The righteous man will be remembered forever.'' Gordon Tucker, Rabbi Richard Greenfield, President
        MERESMAN-Harry. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its former member, beloved father of its esteemed member, Mrs. Helaine Barnett, and father-in-law of its Honorary President, Mr. Victor J. Barnett. Heartfelt sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Hermann Merkin, Founding Pres., David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President
      