
        TUCKER-Kenneth F., M.D. Prominent psychiatrist of Sutton Place South, New York City, died March 8, 1999 at New York Hospital. A long-time resident of Scarsdale, NY, Dr. Tucker had suffered from kidney failure and heart disease for many years. He was born September 5, 1927 in Brooklyn, NY, to Isaac and Belle Cooperstein Tucker, formerly of Russia. Dr. Tucker was an early graduate of Brooklyn Tech, attended R.P.I., and served with the U.S. Army in the Philippines in 1946-1947. He received a B.S. in Chemistry from Columbia and graduated from Cornell Medical School in 1953. From that time until his death, Dr. Tucker conducted a private practice in psychiatry in the same office on Sutton Place. Long affilated with Payne Whitney, he was an early researcher in the use of chemicals to treat mental illness. During his distinguished career, he was a valued counselor to many prominent people and a source of wisdom, comfort and joy to all who had the good fortune to know him. Dr. Tucker was also a life-long sports fan; his first job, at fourteen, was selling programs at Ebbetts Field, for which he was paid $2 a day. At sixteen, he was a member of the New York All-City Championship Handball Team. In later years, he would often return to the handball courts at Coney Island to reminisce about his year of glory. Over his life time, he grew to forgive the New York Yankees for not having been situated in Brooklyn, and his emotional health rose and fell with the fortunes of his beloved New York Giants. Dr. Tucker was proud of his Jewish heritage and raised his children in his faith. Dr Tucker was also a reader of great acuity, breadth and curiosity; he triumphed weekly over the most difficult crosswords; his sense of humor was that of a true New Yorker. He married the late Barbara Irving in 1957. They had four children: Douglas Tucker, of Berkeley, CA, a forensic psychiatrist, Duane Tucker, of New York City, a database administrator, Holly Tucker, of Berkeley, CA, a research administrator and Randolph Tucker, a lawyer, of Ojai, CA. In 1991, Dr. Tucker married Amy Ellis Tucker, of Bronxville, NY, who survives him. He is also loved and survived by three grandchildren, Sam, Alan and Barbara Tucker of Ojai, CA, a sister Gertrude Tucker Weker, of Bethesda, MD; (his other sister, Evelyn Tucker Feinstein, pre-deceased him); a niece, Laurie Weker Lipton, of Rockville, MD, and four nephews, Richard Feinstein of Cranston, RI, Lester Feinstein of Littleton, CO, Jonathan Weker of Montpelier, VT and Robert Weker, of Wynnewood, PA. Contributions in Dr. Tucker's name may be made to the Cornell University Medical College, Department of Psychiatry.
      