
        HOLLAND-S. Emil. Beloved husband of Anne and the late Mildred, loving brother of the late Sadie Zatt, Jack and Louis Holland, and Sylvia Orkin. Devoted father of Cora and Ted Ginsberg, Dede and Michael Thea. Adored stepfather of Greg Meidel. Cherished grandfather of Amy and Steven, Debbie and John, Peter and Katie, Wendy and David, Gaby and Rob, Jennifer and George, Deena and Mark. Cherished great-grandfather of 16 great-grandchildren. Loving uncle and grand uncle. Funeral service Thursday, March 18, 1999, 11:15 AM at The ''Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC.
        HOLLAND-S. Emil. Poppy-you were a true patriarch. You taught us how to have a loving and generous heart. We will love, cherish and miss you always. We know that you considered us, your grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren to be your greatest legacy. He's our Poppy, what a Poppy. Amy, Steven, Daniel, Matthew and Marissa. Debbie, John, Zach and Benjamin. Peter, Katie, Willie, Maddie and Gregory. Gaby, Rob, Alex and Jason. Jennifer, George, Mitchell, Abigail and Elizabeth. Wendy, David, Robert and Andrew. Deena, Mark and Molly.
        HOLLAND-Emil. A dear and devoted uncle and great uncle. You will be remembered with love. Susan, Lee, Eric and Suzanne Weinberg, and Lionel, Naomi, Brandon and Evan Zatt
        HOLLAND-S. Emil. Uncle Emil, you have a special place in our hearts. Thank you for being such a caring uncle, mentor and friend. A man of grace, warmth and wonderful smiles, we will miss you very much. Our prayers are with Anne, Cora and Ted, Dede and Michael, Greg and all his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. There was not a prouder Poppy in all this world. Richard and Lila, Leslie, Adam and Lisa, Zoe
        HOLLAND-S. Emil. All of us at Jackson Management were deeply saddened by the loss of Emil Holland. He was an integral part of the founding of Holland Steel and our esteemed partner. We will miss his experience and wisdom. Our sympathies to Anne, Cora and Ted, Dede and Michael, Greg, his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Richard Holland Stephen Holland
        HOLLAND-S. Emil. We will miss your lust for life, your sense of humor, your wisdom, your lunches and most of all, your friendship. Ellen and Jay Feder
      