
        HOFFMAN-Sol. UNITE mourns the untimely passing of Vice President Sol Hoffman. In his 45 years as the leader of ILGWU (now UNITE) affiliates in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey and Maryland, Sol combined a deep commitment to the workers he represented with a broad vision of social justice. His love for his union and the union ideal are his legacy. leaves Our heartfelt sympathies go out to his wife, Catherine, and his children, Florice and Simone. Memorial Services on Wednesday, March 31, at 12 Noon, at Gutterman-Musicant Chapel, 402 Park St., Hackensack, NJ. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that contributions be made to the Sol Hoffman Scholarship Fund, c/o President's Office, William Paterson University, 300 Pompton Road, Wayne, NJ 07470. Jay Mazur, President Bruce Raynor, Secy-Treasurer Edgar Romney Edward Clark Executive Vice Presidents
        HOFFMAN-Sol. The officers, staff and leadership of the Jewish Labor Committee share in the sorrow at the death of Sol Hoffman, a longtime leader in our organization and for many years Chair of the JLC's National Trade Union Council for Human Rights. A quiet, kindhearted man, with tireless dedication to improving the lives of working men and women in this country and around the world, Sol's political and personal integrity were all examples to his many colleagues and friends. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Catherine, his daughters Florice and Simone, and his entire family. May his memory be a blessing and an inspiration. Morton Bahr President Avram B. Lyon Executive Director
        HOFFMAN-Sol. His fellow coworkers are deeply saddened at the untimely passing of their beloved co-worker, friend and participant in the fight for a better world. His spirited, indefatigable, vibrant leadership is almost irreplaceable. No worthy cause remained unsupported. All in need of his help found him never wanting. His likes will not pass this way soon again. His life was totally devoted to working men and women, all those in need. He was the most decent, kindest and most considerate person in all of our lives. He will be sorely missed by all whom he touched. His Fellow Workers Pennsylvania, Ohio and South Jersey Joint Board UNITE
        HOFFMAN-Sol. We grieve beyond words at the untimely passing of a consummate fighter for workers' rights, decency and a better way of life. A participant in the struggle for civil rights who marched in the early struggles of the '50's, Vice President of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union and its successor organization, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. His ceaseless efforts on behalf of the most needy is an everlasting tribute to his indominable spirit. Joseph Fisher, Co-Manager Pennsylvania, Ohio and South Jersey Joint Board
        HOFFMAN-Sol. The Officers and staff of American ORT deeply mourn the passing of its former officer and board member. As a Vice President of UNITE and a leader in the American labor movement, Sol valued the importance of the vocational and high tech education that American ORT provides worldwide. Heartfelt condolences to his wife, Catherine Lewis, and daughters, Florice and Simone. Michael R. Stoler, Pres. Sidney Reiff, Chairman Apparel & Labor Chapter Brian J. Strum, Exec V.P.
        HOFFMAN-Sol. Union leader. Family man. Friend. Among his peers a happy warrior sleeps. Loyal comarade, we shall sorely miss you. The Lewis, Greenwald Firm
      