
        SHINN-Richard. It is with heartfelt sadness that the Board, Staff, and friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Richard Shinn. A dear friend and tireless leader, Mr. Shinn served us as an esteemed member and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, as Director Emeritus, and Co-Chair of the Directors Emeriti Council. He was also the Chairman and CEO of MetLife and the Executive ViceChairman of the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Shinn generously gave of himself through his service on numerous Lincoln Center committees, including the Committee for the Future, the Steering Committee for the 25th Anniversary Celebration, and the New Building Committee. Mr. Shinn's warmth, faith, energy, and fierce dedication to this institution have been a source of inspiration for us all. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Marion, his daughters, Kathleen Clark and Patricia Grossthanner, his son, John, and his seven grandchildren. He will be deeply missed by us and all who knew him. Beverly Sills, Chairman Martin E. Segal, Chairman Emeritus Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        SHINN-Richard Randolph. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and esteemed Life Overseer Richard Shinn. A founding member of the Board of Overseers, Mr. Shinn rendered distinguished service as Chairman of the Board from 1982 to 1985 and as Vice Chairman from 1980 to 1982 and 1985 to 1987. Our deepest condolences are extended to the Shinn family. Weill Medical College & Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University: Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Antonio M. Gotto, Jr., M.D. Provost for Medical Affairs & Dean, Weill Medical College David P. Hajjar, Ph.D. Dean, Weill Graduate School of Medical Sciences New York Presbyterian Hospital: Daniel B. Burke John F. McGillicuddy Co-Chairmen, Board of Trustees David B. Skinner, M.D. Vice Chairman & CEO William T. Speck, M.D. President & CEO
        SHINN-Richard R. The Board of Directors of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. wish to express their deep sorrow on the passing of their dear friend and esteemed colleague, Richard R. Shinn, Executive Vice Chairman of the Exchange from 1986 to 1990. His dedication and commitment to the Exchange and to the securities industry will be greatly missed. Richard A. Grasso Chairman and Chief Executive Officer New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
      