
        GOULD-Milton S. Cornell University mourns the loss of a devoted son and friend, Milton S. Gould. A member of the Class of '30 and the Cornell Law School Class of '33, Presidential Councillor and life member of the Cornell University Council, he was a man whose vision and commitment had a profound impact on the Law School, the Department of Classics and, indeed, the University as a whole. Co-founder of the New York City law firm of Shea and Gould, author, and legendary trial lawyer whose courtroom feats were legion, he was honored, with his late wife of 61 years, Eleanor Greenburg Gould, as Foremost Benefactors of Cornell. We extend our deepest sympathy to his children, Patricia Booth, Jonathan Gould and Judson Gould, their spouses, Francis Booth and Gay Leonhardt, and grandchildren, Eliza and Olivia Booth. He had boundless enthusiasm for Cornell, and we share his and Eleanor's pride in counting two of his children and his granddaughters among the graduates of the University. He will be missed. Harold Tanner Chairman, Cornell University Board of Trustees Hunter R. Rawlings III President, Cornell University
        GOULD-Milton S. The law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, L.L.P. mourns the passing of its esteemed counsel. We were privileged to have Milton as part of our firm for more than five years. His force of personality and brilliant intellect influenced each of us in the same manner in which he made enduring contributions to the legal profession during his 65 years of practice. His counseling was rare and we will continue to benefit from his guidance which did not end with his death. We extend our profound sympathies to his children and grandchildren.
        GOULD-Milton. The Gelman/Farber family mourn the passing of this legend and great friend, after a life that enriched all those who knew him. His impact taught so many. We will miss Milton terribly, especially his wonderful stories of his past experiences. Richard Gelman
        GOULD-Milton. The Board and staff of National Bank of New York City note with great sadness the passing of our esteemed Board Member. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Richard Gelman Chairman
      