
        TERNER-Mathilda, 88, of Palm Beach, Fla., and Oakhurst, NJ, on the 3rd of March. Cherished and beloved wife of the late Emanuel M. Terner for 67 years. A loving mother to Nancy Behrman, Elaine Cooper and Carol Lederman. Mother-in-law to Stanley and Mark. Devoted grandmother of Peter (Josephine) Grayson, Alan (Kimberly) Mnuchin, Steven Mnuchin, Amy (Jeff) Verschleiser, and Judy Lederman. Adoring great-grandmother of Bradley Louis Grayson and Joshua Terner Verschleiser. Friends may call Thursday evening, 5-7 PM. Services 10 AM, Friday, March 5, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St. Burial service private. Donations in her memory to St. Mary's Hospital, 901 45th St., West Palm Beach, FL. 33407.
        TERNER-Mathilda. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Mathilda Terner, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of her passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who love her be comforted. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        TERNER-Mathilda. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Service for the Handicapped note with sadness the death of Mathilda Terner, a loyal board member since 1968. Her support of the performing arts program at Camp Oakhurst gave joy to many disabled children. To her family go our heartfelt condolences. Marilyn Friedman, President Marvin A. Raps, Exec Director
        TERNER-Mathilda. Congregation Orach Chaim extends heartfelt condolences to our devoted members Carol and Mark Lederman on the passing of their beloved mother and family matriarch and expresses sympathy to all the children and grandchildren. May they be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Michael D. Shmidman, Rabbi Wolf Scheck, President
        TERNER-Mathilda. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend Mathilda Terner and offers its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary
        TERNER-Mathilda. The Board of Trustees of Monmouth Health Care Foundation expresses its sadness at the passing of our very special benefactor of Monmouth Medical Center and extends its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. Joseph A. Torcivia, Chairman Bridget Murphy, Director
        TERNER-Mathilda. The Officers, Trustees and Members of The Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Mrs. Mathilda Terner. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her family. Bernard D. Karasic, President Charles Weissman, Secretary
      