
        ABRAMS-Arthur L., 86, of Scranton, PA, on April 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Ruth Friedman. Cherished father of Judy Steinhardt, Ellen Abrams Stossel, Ann Lutz. Loved by his grandchildren, David and Daniel Steinhardt and Sara Berman, Lauren and Max Stossel, Emily and Ben Kaplan. Adoring great-grandfather of Jacob Berman. Devoted brother of Mildred Golden and Natalie Gossels. Shiva Sunday, May 2, 3-8 p.m., 211 Central Park West, Apt. 15K, and Monday, May 3, 12-9 p.m., 1158 Fifth Avenue, Apt. 16A.
        ABRAMS-Arthur/d. Hillel: The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life, mourns the passing of Arthur Abrams, beloved father of our dear friend and supporter, Judy Steinhardt and cherished father-inlaw of Michael Steinhardt, CoChairman of Hillel's International Board of Governors. We extend our condolences to Mrs. Ruth Abrams, Ellen Abrams and Rick Stossel, Annie and John Lutz, grandchildren, and great-grandchild. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Edgar M. Bronfman, Chairman, International Board of Governors Charles Schusterman, Co-Chairman, International Board of Governors Chuck Newman, Chairman, Board of Directors Richard M. Joel, President and International Director
        ABRAMS-Arthur. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Arthur Abrams, beloved father of Judy Steinhardt and father-in-law of Michael Steinhardt, extraordinary philanthropic leaders and cherished friends devoted to strengthening the future of the Jewish community. We extend our sincerest condolences to Judy and Michael; and to Ruth Abrams; Ellen Abrams and Rick Stossel; Annie and John Lutz; the grandchildren; and great-grandchild. May his memory be a blessing to us all. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        ABRAMS-Arthur. The Staff of Jewish Life Network mourns the death of Arthur Abrams, beloved father of our Principal, Judy Steinhardt. His kind goodness, helpfulness to others and Jewish concern will be missed by the family, his community and his people. Rabbi Irving Greenberg, President Jonathan J. Greenberg, Exec Dir
      