
        TILBERIS-Elizabeth (Liz). On behalf of the Board of Directors and staff of The Ovarian Cancer Research Fund, Inc. (OCRF), we deeply mourn the passing of our beloved friend and President, Liz Tilberis. Liz Tilberis was an extraordinary woman and a visionary leader. Her commitment and dedication to raising funds for research and educating women has brought OCRF to new heights of excellence and has propelled ovarian cancer into the public eye. The courage and grace with which she fought ovarian cancer is an inspiration to all women battling the disease. With all that she has done, we are certainly closer to conquering this devastating illness. We will miss her terribly. Carmel J. Cohen, MD, Chair Sol Schreiber, Founder & Co-Chair Jamie Boris, Executive Director Board of Directors, OCRF
        TILBERIS-Elizabeth. Dear Liz, your unbelievable warmth, humor, optimism, determination and fighting spirit has been the greatest source of inspiration to your many fans. We will miss you tremendously and send our love and sympathy to Andrew, Christopher and Robbie. Your friends at the National Enquirer and Star
        TILBERIS-Liz. A silent salute to the most truly gracious lady in fashion. Liz was the consummate professional-always there to help, to guide, to acknowledge those who needed her support and wisdom. Her warmth and openness to both fashion's elite, as well as workers remains an inspiration for others to follow. Blessings to a glorious human being. My thoughts represent a legion of workers whom she always responded to with charm and caring. Jody Donohue
        TILBERIS-Liz. We are deeply saddened by the passing of a remarkable woman and loving mother. Her compassion and courage will always be remembered. Our heartfelt condolences go out to Andrew, Robert and Chris. The Allen-Stevenson School 8th Grade Parents & Classmates
        TILBERIS-Liz. Your style, grace and kindness will be missed by all. Thank you for being such an extraordinary friend. I will always hold a special place for you in my thoughts. Love, Dennis Basso
        TILBERIS-Liz. Mrs. Tilberis, you were very brave and special to all who knew you. Deepest sympathy to my dear friend, Rob, Mr. Tilberis and Chris. Jason Emden
      