
        WALDES-Rosalie Gallert Mayer. Born October 27, 1913 in New York City to Minnie Emily Gallert Mayer and Joseph L. B. Mayer. She was a sister to David and Myron (Mickey). She grew up in New York City and Sharon Springs, NY. She attended the Ethical CultureFieldston Schools, graduating from Vassar in 1935. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, she pursued graduate work in architecture at Cornell. She was an avid equestrian and hunted with several packs down the East Coast. She married Milo Waldes on September 24, 1942. Three children, John, Thomas and Helen completed the family. Roly was an enthusiastic botanist, growing orchids from seed, creating prize winning floral arrangements; she was a champion road rally navigator acquiring several Long Island championships with Milo. She was an award winning photographer; one of her photos hung at the 1963-1964 New York World's Fair. Roly travelled widely: she caught a trophy tuna in Nova Scotia, helped Milo photograph the East African Plains wildlife, investigated the pyramids of Mexico and Egypt, explored Europe, the Near and Far East, North and South America, Micronesia and Australia. Roly volunteered throughout her life: from the Women's Auxiliary Armed Forces to Civil Defense and as secretary for the Roslyn Visiting Nurse Association 27 years, as a Friend of the Zoo Docent for 28 years, in her local Vassar Club, as well as for the Boy and Girl Scouts. She loved completing The New York Times and London Times crossword puzzles, playing a vigorous hand of bridge and stimulating, scintillating conversations in several languages. Roly was a student of life, wife, mother to John, Thomas and Helen and beloved grandmother of David, Brian and Elizabeth. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Wednesday 2-5 & 7-9pm with services Thursday 11:30am. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions in Rosalie's name to a charity she supported: Vassar College; Friends of the Zoo (The New York Zoological Society); The New York Public Library or The Bat Conservancy.
      