
        LORTEL-Lucille. Lucille's reception in heaven must be deafening. We join the applause. Outer Critics Circle Marjorie Gunner, President
        LORTEL-Lucille. On behalf of the Theatre faculty and students and the entire community of The Graduate School and University Center of The City University of New York, we express deep sadness at the loss of one of the finest and most enduring lights of the American theater. The Lucille Lortel Chair in our Ph.D. Program in Theatre, the first theater chair in America to be named for a woman, was established through her dedication and generosity. Her legacy and memory will live on through the generations of theater scholars to come. Frances Degen Horowitz, Pres.
        LORTEL-Lucille. The Actors' Fund of America mourns the loss of Lucille Lortel, the ''Queen of Off-Broadway'', devoted Fund Trustee, and Benefactor. The Fund is proud to have The Lucille Lortel Off-Off-Broadway Theatre at our Nursing Home and Assisted Living Care Facility in Englewood, NJ. Miss Lortel's dedication and generosity to those in the theatrical community was inspiring and will never be forgotten. Joseph P. Benincasa, Exec Dir Tom Dillon, President
        LORTEL-Lucille. A great lady of the American Theatre, she supported the work of thousands of Off-Broadway artists throughout her life. Her committment to innovation and love of the theatre will be impossible to replace. The Board, Staff and 350 member theatres of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York Virginia P. Louloudes, Exec. Dir.
        LORTEL-Lucille. The Columbia University School of the Arts mourns the passing of Lucille Lortel. Her dedication to the theatre program and the establishment of the ''Lucille Lortel Visiting Professor of Playwriting'' greatly enriched the training of young playwrights. She will be missed by the Columbia University community.
        LORTEL-Lucille. Your enthusiasm and love of theater has encouraged and inspired me. You will always be in my heart as I continue to share and support our dreams for Off Broadway. Daryl Roth
      