
        BRUCKMANN-Donald J. January 4, 1929-April 21, 1999. A resident of New York, N.Y., and Easthampton NY. Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Animal Medical Center. Survived by his wife of 42 years, the former Polly Thudium, three nephews, William, Bruce and Kurt Bruckmann, and two nieces, Elizabeth McShane and Beverley Place. In lieu of flowers, contributions would be welcome to the Animal Medical Center in NY and the New York Botanical Garden. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, April 28 at 11AM at St. Thomas Church, 53 Street and Fifth Avenue.
        BRUCKMANN-Donald J. The Board and Staff of The New York Botanical Garden note with sadness the death of the Garden's former Chairman and long-time Board member on April 21st. An astute leader as well as a keen gardener, he was a steadfast friend of the Garden and will long be remembered for his many benefactions, including the Garden's glorious crabapple collection which every May bursts into breathtaking bloom. We offer our deep sympathy to Polly and his nephews and nieces. Thomas J. Hubbard, Chairman Gregory Long, President
        BRUCKMANN-Donald J. The Board of Trustees of The Animal Medical Center mourns the passing of its Chairman, Donald J. Bruckmann. His passion and unceasing work for companion animals gave AMC the renewed vigor the organization now enjoys. He will be deeply missed by staff and friends of AMC alike. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Polly, and their families. Cynthia Phipps First Vice President, Board of Trustees Guy Pidgeon, DVM President
        BRUCKMANN-Donald J. On behalf of the Board of Trustees and staff of the South Fork/Shelter Island Chapter of The Nature Conservancy, we deeply mourn the passing of this stalwart friend and supporter of The Nature Conservancy. We extend our sincere and heartfelt condolences to the members of his family, and particularly to his wife, Polly, who has served for many years as a valuable and respected officer and trustee of our Chapter. William A. Cameron, Chairman Nancy Kelley, Executive Director
        BRUCKMANN - Donald. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Garden Conservancy acknowledge with sadness the loss of Donald J. Bruckmann. A passionate gardener, Donald was a founding Director of the Conservancy and his leadership and support were instrumental in our first decade. We extend deepest sympathies to his wife, Polly, and family. Francis H. Cabot, Chairman Thomas N. Armstrong, President Antonia F. Adezio, Exec. Dir.
        BRUCKMANN-Donald J. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum, Smithsonian Institution are deeply saddened by the loss of our loyal Trustee and former Chairman of the Board, Donald Bruckmann. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Polly and his family.
        BRUCKMANN-Donald. The Officers, Directors and residents of 66 East 79th Street, are deeply saddened at the death of long term Director, Donald J. Bruckmann and appreciate his years of service on their behalf. Our condolences to his family.
      