
        FLEAGLE-Edward., 90, a resident of Glen Cove since 1977, died Wednesday, April 7, 1999, at his home. Born in Yonkers, NY, on December 13, 1908, he was the son of Edward E. Fleagle, Sr., and Elizabeth (Bahret) Fleagle. Fleagle was a graduate of Yonkers High School, Pratt Institute School of Architecture, a post graduate of Columbia University and Beaux Arts School of Design. He married Agnes Flanagan of Rockland in 1947. From 1934 until his retirement in 1978, Fleagle owned and operated an architectural practice in Yonkers. Fleagle designed over fifty college and school buildings including Westchester Community College; College of Mt. St. Vincent, Riverdale; Elizabeth Seton High School and College, Yonkers. Fleagle was a recipient of numerous national design awards throughout his career. In 1974 he was elected to Fellowship in the American Institute of Architects, was past president of Westchester A.I.A. and member Emeritus of Maine Chapter A.I.A. Recently he was honored as the oldest living A.I.A. fellow living in the United States. In 1977 Fleagle received a gold medal from the Westchester A.I.A. for his outstanding contribution toward the betterment of the physical environment of Westchester County. He was the first to receive this award which was sponsored by the County Government and the Westchester architects. He served as trustee of the Hudson River Museum in Yonkers from 1950 to 1973, including terms as president of the board; vice chairman and chairman of the Westchester Planning Board for twenty-three years. Fleagle served as trustee of St. Thomas Aquinas College in Sparkill, NY, trustee for Peoples Westchester Savings Bank and its predecessor Peoples Savings Bank of Yonkers for 32 years until his retirement to Maine. He was a parishioner of St. Bernard's Catholic Church. Together with his wife, Agnes Flanagan Fleagle, they established the Fleagle-Flanagan Scholarship Trust for high school graduates continuing their education in college and technical schools. Surviving is his nephew, Gerald R. Westcott, Jr., of Leola, PA, and personal caregivers, Vicki, Linda, Patti, Heidi, Eileen, Gail, Yvonne. His wife, Agnes Flanagan Fleagle, died September 27, 1993, and his sister, Helen Westcott died previously. Calling hours and prayers were Friday, April 9, 1999, at Carpenter Funeral Home, 306 Broadway, Rockland. The funeral mass was celebrated Saturday, April 10, 1999, at St. Bernard's Catholic Church, 150 Broadway, Rockland, with the Rev. Valmont Gilbert officiating. Burial followed in St. James Cemetery, Thomaston. Memorial donations may be made in his memory to the FlanaganFleagle Education Trust, c/o Cynthia Webre Shuman, 5953 Green Tree, Houston, Texas 77057.
      