
        KARTEN-Isidore. Beloved husband of Julia, devoted father of Berne Bookhamer, Marcia Toledano & Harry. Loving grandfather of Talya, Keren, Michal, Bryant, Devon, Jonathen and Sharone. Service Wednesday, 10:00AM, at Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67th St. For information, Plaza Memorial Chapel: 212-769-4400.
        KARTEN-Isidore. We mourn the passing of the father of our esteemed member, Marcia Toledano, and pray that the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Young Israel of Great Neck
        KARTEN-Isidore. On behalf of the board, officers and members of the American and International Societies for Yad Vashem, we deeply mourn the sudden death of our beloved Izzie. He was gentle but very strong. All those who were fortunate to know him will always remember and miss him. His good deeds were boundless. As the Vice Chairman of our Societies, recipient of the 1991 Yad Vashem Remembrance Award and Benefactor of the Valley of the Communities, his compassion and wisdom guided us for many years. As a survivor, his heroism and leadership was a pillar of strength and a model for future generations. His presence will be greatly missed. We extend our condolences to his wife Julia and all the family. Eli Zborowski, Chairman Ira Drukier, Sam Skura, Joseph Wilf. Vice Chairmen American & International Societies for Yad Vashem
        KARTEN-Isidore. We record with deep sorrow the passing of Isidore Karten, a dedicated and respected member of our Board of Directors who greatly contributed to our growth. Izzy Karten was a man of high integrity and great business ability, a most compassionate person who had a great understanding of people and was always ready to help those less fortunate or in need. Our bank will sorely miss him. We send our sympathy and warm feelings to his family at this time of sorrow. The Board of Directors Merchants Bank of New York Spencer B. Witty, Chairman James G. Lawrence, President
        KARTEN-Isidore. Yad Vashem, The Holocaust Martyrs and Heroes Remembrance Authority in Jerusalem, is saddened by the death of Isidore Karten. We deeply mourn the passing of our devoted friend and Benefactor of Yad Vashem. Isidore Karten was a man of strong principles who deeply believed the legacy of the Shoah must be carried forward for future generations. We extend our condolences to his beloved wife Julia and all the family. Avner Shalev and Dr. Josef Burg, Chairmen Yad Vashem Jerusalem
      