
        BERGER-Graenum. It is with great sorrow that the Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Graenum Berger, a prominent figure in the social work arena. As a founder of the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds, the Usdan Center for the Creative and Performing Arts, and the Wurzweiler Education Program, all affiliated with UJA-Federation, he brought joy and enlightenment to a world of children and adults. Whether directing Group Work Activities at UJA-Federation, or inspiring the Jewish community to liberate Ethiopian Jews, his was a life devoted to the service of others. In recognition of his dedication to the Jewish community, the Graenum Berger Bronx Jewish Federation Service Center is named in his honor. Our deepest sympathies go to his wife, Emma; his son, Michael; his daughters-inlaw, Sandra and Anita; and to his six grandchildren. May all who benefited from his kindness and wisdom be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        BERGER-Graenum. The board and congregation of Pelham Jewish Center mourn the passing of our dear founder. His intelligence, warmth, commitment and many accomplishments in the world of Jewish philanthropy constitute an enduring legacy. Our sincerest condolences to his widow Emma and the entire Berger family.
        BERMAN-Gertrude Kaplan. 79. Of Palm Beach, FL, died March 30, 1999, after a long illness. Beloved wife for 58 years of Bennett; loving mother of Jeffrey and Helaine; sister of Leonard; and grandmother of Justin and Jordan. She was a long-time resident of Palm Beach, FL. She was a friend to many people in Palm Beach and in New York. As an active member of her community, she gave her time and support to Haddassah, the Sirocca Medical Center of Beersheva, Israel, and the Haifa University. She was a founder of Morse Geriatric Center in Palm Beach, FL, and was a founding member of the Morse Women's Auxiliary. Above all, she was a woman with a loving heart and a strong character who was devoted to her family. Funeral services will be held at Temple Israel in West Palm Beach, FL, April 4, 1999, at 11 a.m. Graveside services will be in New York at Old Montefiore Cemetery, Springfield Blvd., St. Albans, Queens, NY, April 5, 1999, at 11 a.m.
      