
        CHAN-Stephen, age 88, of Palm Beach, Fla., died after a threeyear battle with Parkinson's disease on Saturday, April 3, 1999. Mr. Chan was an accountant and a managing partner of Eisner and Lubin. He was a benefactor of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, a trustee of NYU's Institute of Fine Arts, a trustee of the Hagop Kevorkian Fund, a founder of JASA, on the board of Bronx Lebanon Hospital, a founder of Westchester Reform Temple, a member of the Palm Beach Country Club and Fenway Golf Club. He is survived by his wife, Miriam Nelson Chan; son, Robert Chan, daughter, Janet Chan of New York City, daughterin-law, Amy; son-in-law, Tyler Donaldson, and three grandchildren, Jack, Laura and Adam. His family would like to thank all his friends for their kindness and prayers. A memorial service will be held Tuesday, April 6, 2:00 PM, Temple Israel, North Flagler Drive, West Palm Beach.
        CHAN-Stephen. The board, staff and members of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged note with sadness the death of our colleague and supporter. He was a founding trustee of JASA who during his years of loyal and dedicated service assumed key leadership roles, including treasurer and chair of the budget and finance committee. May his family be comforted by his memory. Marilyn Friedman, President Steven M. Jacobson, Chairman David J. Stern, Executive VP
        CHAN-Stephen. The Board of Trustees of the Hagop Kevorkian Fund mourn the passing of Stephen Chan, Chairman and Trustee Emeritus of the Fund. We will miss his sound advice and concern for the Fund's affairs. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Miriam, and his children, Janet and Robert. Ralph D. Minasian, President
        CHAN-Stephen. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Stephen Chan, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary
        CHAN-Stephen. The Trustees, Faculty, and Students of The Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, mourn the loss of our Trustee, Stephen Chan, benefactor and wise counselor.
      