
        McCALL-Dave and Penny. The Board, staff and clients of STRIVE salute our partner, Dave McCall and his wife Penny. They died giving to others as they did to our organization from the time of its founding. We will try to live up to their ideals and will remember them always.
        MCCALL-David and Joan. The Parrish Art Museum is deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Penny and David McCall. Their steadfast commitment to humanitarian causes and contemporary art resulted in extraordinary generosity to many organizations and individuals close to home and far beyond. For many years, Penny enabled The Parrish to bring the work of contemporary artists here, thereby enriching the cultural life of the region. Their home life was shared with so many in benefitting the causes they supported and for the opportunity to view Penny's love of contemporary art. The Board of Trustees and staff extend its deepest sympathy to their families and friends. Mildred C. Brinn, Chairman Trudy C. Kramer, Director
        McCALL-David and Penny. The Trustees and staff of the New Museum of Contemporary Art mourn the tragic passing of Penny and David McCall. Penny and David were a source of inspiration, grace, and good humor to all who had the pleasure of working with them. They committed themselves to assisting people in need throughout the world and believed deeply that art has the power to change people's lives. We will miss them greatly and send our deepest condolences to their entire family. Saul Dennison, President James C.A. McClennen, Vice President Lisa Phillips, Director Marcia Tucker, Founding Director
        McCALL-David. The Board and staff of Citymeals-on-Wheels are devastated by the loss of one of our founding members, David McCall. When our effort began 17 years ago he offered his extraordinary creative talents to help convey our mission. The logo he designed still appears on all our materials and his deep passion for making New York a kinder city for frail and isolated elderly will always inspire our work. Preston Robert Tisch, President Gael Greene, Founder & Chair Marcia Stein, Executive Director
      