
        NEWMAN-Bernard, Judge. Universally acclaimed for his integrity by all who knew him, including Bishops, Deans, Governors, Legislators, Judges and fellow citizens on the streets of New York, Bernard Newman consistently credited his parents, and his wife for 59 years, Kathryn Bereano, and his life time friend and surviving spouse, Fritzi W. Rudolph, for his sterling reputation. A Governor of New York, once marveled how Bernard ''could engage in political activities and in a post of leadership and retain his...reputation for integrity.'' Born on October 28, 1907 to Isidor J. and Sarah C. Newman, and life time resident of New York City, Bernard Newman was a gentleman of profound wisdom, integrity and generosity, and a man of great compassion. More significantly Bernard Newman was a man completely devoted and dedicated to his family, and tremendously adored and loved by his family and friends. An honor graduate of the college and law school of New York University and an Associate Editor of the Law Review, Bernard Newman was a lawyer's lawyer and a judge's judge. As a young attorney, Bernard was attracted at an early age to public service. First as an Assistant Corporation Counsel assigned to the office of Chamberlain A.A. Berle, Jr., and next as a law secretary to New York State Supreme Court Justice, Samuel H. Hofstadler. For 16 years, presiding justices David W. Peck and Bernard Botein designated lawyer Newman an official referee of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court. On December 12, 1965, Mayor Robert F. Wagner, Jr. appointed him to the family court, which was followed by an appointment to the State Supreme Court by Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller. Then, on July 21, 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson, nominated the Judge to the Customs Court, situated in New York. The jurisdiction of which was expanded by Congress in 1980 under the name United States Court of International Trade. Judge Newman, who delighted in the distinction of having been appointed by Mayor, the Governor, and the President, presided for more than 30 years over complex Federal Customs and international trade cases, while also sitting in recent years in the federal district court in Manhattan. Judge Newman also once served as Council to, and Chairman of, the New York County Republican Party; as a delegate to Republican National Nominating Conventions; as a referee on special panels of the New York State Labor Relations and Mediation Boards. Judge Newman also was a Director of the Civic Center Synagogue, Community, Synagogue Center, Metropolitan Advisory Board of Anti Defamation League, and Laguardia Memorial Association. He was also the recipient of the Judge Edward Weinfeld Award, and Man of the Year Award. In addition to his wife Fritzi, the Judge is survived by daughters Phyllis Cechini and Helene Bernstein, grandchildren Craig and Kathy, John and Kathy, Mark and Hayley Cechini, Scott and Marcia, Brad and Annette Bernstein, and eight great-grandchildren. Services will be held on April 25, 11:30 AM, Plaza Memorial, 630 Amsterdam Avenue (91st Street), New York.
        NEWMAN-Bernard. The NYU School of Law community mourns the passing of our distinguished alumnus, Judge Bernard Newman, of the Class of 1929. Judge Newman's long career on the bench included service on the New York City Family Court and on the New York State Supreme Court before his 1968 appointment by President Lyndon B. Johnson to the U.S. Customs Court, now the U.S. Court of International Trade. Judge Newman served NYU Law as a member of the Board of Governors of the Law Review Alumni Association. In 1980, he was given the Judge Edward Weinfeld Award in recognition of his distinguished career. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. New York University, School of Law Lester Pollack, Chair Board of Trustees John Sexton, Dean
        NEWMAN-Judge Bernard. With profound sadness, we mourn the passing of our lifelong and cherished friend, Judge Bernard Newman. Courageous, generous, and devoted to his profession and all who knew him, he was a constant source of inspiration, affection, and wisdom. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his beloved wife Fritzy, and his family. Hon. Samuel J. and Ethel LeFrak and the LeFrak family
        NEWMAN-Senior Judge Bernard. The Chief Judge, the Colleagues and the Staff of the U.S. Court of International Trade express their deepest sorrow at the passing of a distinguished member of the Court, the esteemed and beloved Bernard Newman and extend their heartfelt condolences to the bereaved members of his family.
        NEWMAN-Bernard. The New York Republican County Committee records with deep sorrow the passing of its former Chairman. A great Federal judge, outstanding political leader, warm friend who will be sorely missed. Sen. Roy M. Goodman, Chairman Gertrude Hess Parker, Exec. Sec.
      