
        NEWMAN-Bernard, Judge. Universally acclaimed for his integrity by all who knew him, including Bishops, Deans, Governors, Legislators, Judges and fellow citizens on the streets of New York, Bernard Newman consistently credited his parents, and his wife for 59 years, Kathryn Bereano, and his life time friend and surviving spouse, Fritzi W. Rudolph, for his sterling reputation. A Governor of New York, once marveled how Bernard ''could engage in political activities and in a post of leadership and retain his...reputation for integrity.'' Born on October 28, 1907 to Isidor J. and Sarah C. Newman, and life time resident of New York City, Bernard Newman was a gentleman of profound wisdom, integrity and generosity, and a man of great compassion. More significantly Bernard Newman was a man completely devoted and dedicated to his family, and tremendously adored and loved by his family and friends. An honor graduate of the college and law school of New York University and an Associate Editor of the Law Review, Bernard Newman was a lawyer's lawyer and a judge's judge. As a young attorney, Bernard was attracted at an early age to public service. First as an Assistant Corporation Counsel assigned to the office of Chamberlain A.A. Berle, Jr., and next as a law secretary to New York State Supreme Court Justice, Samuel H. Hofstadler. For 16 years, presiding justices David W. Peck and Bernard Botein designated lawyer Newman an official referee of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court. On December 12, 1965, Mayor Robert F. Wagner, Jr. appointed him to the family court, which was followed by an appointment to the State Supreme Court by Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller. Then, on July 21, 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson, nominated the Judge to the Customs Court, situated in New York. The jurisdiction of which was expanded by Congress in 1980 under the name United States Court of International Trade. Judge Newman, who delighted in the distinction of having been appointed by Mayor, the Governor, and the President, presided for more than 30 years over complex Federal Customs and international trade cases, while also sitting in recent years in the federal district court in Manhattan. Judge Newman also once served as Council to, and Chairman of, the New York County Republican Party; as a delegate to Republican National Nominating Conventions; as a referee on special panels of the New York State Labor Relations and Mediation Boards. Judge Newman also was a Director of the Civic Center Synagogue, Community, Synagogue Center, Metropolitan Advisory Board of Anti Defamation League, and Laguardia Memorial Association. He was also the recipient of the Judge Edward Weinfeld Award, and Man of the Year Award. In addition to his wife Fritzi, the Judge is survived by daughters Phyllis Cechini and Helene Bernstein, grandchildren Craig and Kathy, John and Kathy, Mark and Hayley Cechini, Scott and Marcia, Brad and Annette Bernstein, and eight great-grandchildren. Services will be held on April 25, 11:30 AM, Plaza Memorial, 630 Amsterdam Avenue (91st Street), New York.
        NEWMAN-Bernard. A consummate jurist, scholar and gentleman whose devotion to public service was extraordinary. A past president of N.Y.U. Law Review Alumni Association, a distinguished judge of the U.S. Court of International Trade, a former New York Family Court Judge, and holder of countless other offices, a dear friend, we will miss him sorely. Herbert Rubin, and Justice Rose L. Rubin
        NEWMAN-Judge Bernard. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member, Judge Bernard Newman. He was a humble man who rose to the top of his profession. Among his great qualities were wisdom, kindness and love of Israel and his fellow man. Community Synagogue Center
        NEWMAN-Bernard. The New York Republican County Committee records with deep sorrow the passing of its former Chairman. A great Federal judge, outstanding political leader, warm friend who will be sorely missed. Sen. Roy M. Goodman, Chairman Gertrude Hess Parker, Exec. Sec.
      