
        ROTHSTEIN-Ben. Died April 19, 1999. Retired, The New York Times, Sunday Art Director of The Week in Review, The New York Times Magazine, Fashions of the Times, Report on Men's Wear, Children's Fashions and the Home sections. Retired Senior Assistant Art Director and Studio Manager, Newsweek Magazine. He served his country during World War II as the Head of Regimental Training Aids at Fort McClellan, Alabama. A highly artistic, caring man, who melded professionalism with creativity, Ben won numerous awards for his editorial design. Ben was a member of The Sunday Department, under Lester Markel, when it received a 1953 Pulitzer PrizeSpecial Awards and Citations, for the ''Review of the Week''. He made the first illustration of the then to be built United Nations, which appeared in The New York Times Centennial Exhibit at The New York Public Library. He art directed for The New York Times Magazine's World's Fair section in the April 18, 1965 issue, the most comprehensive map to appear in any publication of the New York World's Fair. Ben taught newspaper graphics and designed a minority student publication for the ''Michele Clark Fellowship Program for Minority Journalists'' at Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. As a volunteer, he taught art to children in the slums of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Ben loved to travel. He also lived and worked in London for Mercury House Business Publications Ltd and in Jerusalem for the ''Israeli Economist''. An accomplished painter, he won many awards for his watercolors and oils; having studied Design and Painting in New York, Pratt Institute and New School; as well as the Fountainbleu School of Fine Arts, France. Ben was a member of New York's Salmagundi Club. He is survived by his wife, Fanny, daughter Linda Rothstein-Sosnick, both residing in Jamesburg, NJ.
        ROTHSTEIN-Ben. The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Ben Rothstein, associated with The Times from 1935 until retiring in 1980.
      