
        LORTEL-Lucille. On April 4, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Louis Schweitzer. Fondly acknowledged as ''The Queen of Off-Broadway'' and as one of the founders of the modern Off-Broadway theatre movement. Nurturer and benefactor to all who entered the portals of Off-Broadway in the past 50 years: playwrights, directors, actors, designers, managers and producers all enjoyed the benefits of her wisdom, friendship and support. Lucille Lortel is a towering figure in world theatre of the 20th Century who will be missed by one and all and never forgotten. The League of Off-Broadway Theatres and Producers Barry Grove, President
        LORTEL-Lucille. The staff of the Theater on Film and Tape Archive of The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts will be forever grateful to Lucille Lortel. Her love for and remarkable commitment to the preservation of today's theatre will be sorely missed. The Library's Lucille Lortel Room stands as a tribute to her devotion, thoughtfulness, and generosity.
        LORTEL-Lucille. We note with deep sorrow the loss of our cherished member. A true woman of the theater, her contributions will be everlasting. Without her, theater in this city would have been greatly diminished for the last half century. She leaves us with our profound admiration, deep affection and eternal gratitude. The Players
        LORTEL-Lucille. Her passion for and love of Off-Broadway has and will continue to inspire generations of theatermakers and theatergoers. Playwrights Horizons salutes the remarkable Lucille Lortel and joins the theater community in mourning her passing. Tim Sanford, Artistic Director and the entire Staff and Board of Playwrights Horizons
        LORTEL-Lucille. In loving memory of a great lady.A powerful force in the growth and progress of OffBroadway theater. She will be long remembered for her recognition and aid to actors, writers and directors. Rest in Peace. Anna Sosenko
        LORTEL-Lucille. The administration and Board of Trustees of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts mourn the passing of Lucille Lortel, esteemed alumna and Honorary Trustee-and great woman of The Theatre.
        LORTEL-Lucille. The Board of Directors of the American Theatre Wing notes with sorrow the passing of Lucille Lortel, a great friend of the theatre. Isabelle Stevenson, Chairman Roy A. Somlyo, President
        LORTEL-Lucille. The League of Professional Theatre Women mourn the passing of our esteemed and cherished member, Lucille Lortel. Shari Upbin, President
        LORTEL-Lucille. In memory of Lucille Lortel: our inspiration, our Trustee, our loving friend. David and Leonora Hays and The National Theatre of the Deaf
      