
        OLDS-Herbert Vincent. Formerly of Lynn, MA and Arlington, VA, died on April 3, 1999. He was 85 years old. Born December 19, 1913, he was the son of Herbert V. and Mary Emerson Olds. He attended the Loomis School in Windsor, CT and graduated magna cum laude from Harvard University in 1934. He also did post-graduate work at the University of Virginia, the University of Mexico, Columbia University, and the American University in Washington, DC. He was married for 57 years to Mary Elliott Rankin of Lorraine, OH until her death in 1994. Mr. Olds had a distinguished 30-year career in the U.S. Foreign Service, during which he held various assignments as a consular or political officer in Havana, Cuba; Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Buenos Aires, Argentina; Bogota, Colombia; and Brussels, Belgium. Mr. Olds also opened the first U.S. Consulates in Bujumbura, Burundi and Kigali, Rwanda and served as Consul General in Bujumbura for two years. He also held assignments in the Office of Personnel and the Bureau of African Affairs at the State Department in Washington, DC. He was interned in the Netherlands and Germany for part of World War II. Mr. Olds is survived by four children, Margaret L. Olds of York, PA; Anne K. Lombardi of Falls Church, VA; Michael V. Olds of Newport Beach, CA; and John C. Olds of Pebble Beach, CA. He is also survived by six grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. Another daughter, Patricia E. Frantz, died in 1977. Following his retirement in 1964, Mr. Olds traveled extensively in Europe, Russia, Asia, Australia, New Zealand and the Caribbean. A passionate opera buff, he also served as a volunteer and occasional supernumerary for the national Opera Society of Washington, DC and was proud to have performed in the role of the Cardinal in the world premiere of Alberto Ginastera's opera, Bomarzo. Mr. Olds had spent the last year living at the home of his daughter, Margaret, in York, PA. Following cremation services and burial will be private.
      