
        SHAMSI-Haider H., M.D. The faculty and staff of the Sloane Hospital for Women, Columbia-Presbyterian Center, mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, Dr. Haider Shamsi. During the years of his education in Pakistan, Kenya and England, he was elected to Fellowship of the Royal College of OB/GYN, England, in recognition of his continued academic career in OB/GYN. He joined the St. Luke's/Roosevelt Hospital in 1978, and was appointed Director of Obstetrics there. Later, he joined the faculty at Columbia's Sloane Hospital for Women, where he taught residents and students and worked in the various outreach programs. Always interested in scholarly activities, Dr. Shamsi was a warm, empathetic gentleman beloved by everyone who had the opportunity to know and work with him. Our deepest sympathy to his family at this terrible time of loss. Roger A. Lobo, M.D., Chairman
        SHAMSI-Haider, M.D. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center expresses deep sorrow at the passing of our colleague and friend. Dr. Shamsi's commitment to his patients and devotion to his students were extraordinary. As Director of the Division of Obstetrics, he was instrumental in the merger of the departments of Obstetrics and Gynecology of St. Luke's and Roosevelt Hospitals. He will be sorely missed. To his wife, Adiba Shamsi, M.D., and his entire family, we offer our profound condolences. Lawrence S. Huntington Chairman of the Board Sigurd H. Ackerman, M.D. President Carlton Boxhill, M.D. President of the Medical Board Robert Neuwirth, M.D. Acting Chairman, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology
        SHAMSI-Haider H., M.D. We mourn the untimely loss of a dear friend and a true gentleman doctor. He will be missed forever. Our condolences to Adiba and family. Laxmi and Vibhakar Baxi, M.D.
        SHAMSI-S. Haider. The Council and Fellows of the New York Obstetrical Society record with profound regret the death of their Active Fellow, Dr. S. Haider Shamsi on April 21st, 1999. Howard L. Minkoff, MD, Pres. Richard U. Levine, MD, Secretary
      