
        KARTEN-Isidore. Beloved husband of Julia, devoted father of Berne Bookhamer, Marcia Toledano & Harry. Loving grandfather of Talya, Keren, Michal, Bryant, Devon, Jonathen and Sharone. Service Wednesday, 10:00AM, at Park East Synagogue, 163 East 69th St. For information, Plaza Memorial Chapel: 212-769-4400.
        KARTEN-Isidore. On behalf of the board, officers and members of the American and international societies for Yad Vashem, we deeply mourn the sudden death of our beloved Izzie. He was gentle but very strong. All those who were fortunate to know him will always remember and miss him. His good deeds were boundless. As the Vice Chairman of our Societies, his compassion and wisdom guided us for many years. As a survivor, his heroism and leadership was a pillar of strength and a model for future generations. His presence will be greatly missed. We extend our condolences to his wife Julia and all the family. Eli Zborowski, Chairman American & International Societies for Yad Vashem
        KARTEN-Isidore. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted Trustee and Benefactor, Isidore Karten, Chatan Torah, patriach of his family, who emerged from the Holocaust with love of Torah and Israel. To his beloved wife, Julia, children, Harry and Danielle, Berne and James Bookhamer, Marcia and Yakov Toledano, grandchildren, and the entire family, our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        KARTEN-Isidore. We record with deep sorrow the passing of Isidore Karten, a dedicated and respected member of our Board of Directors who greatly contributed to our growth. Izzy Karten was a man of high integrity and great business ability, a most compassionate person who had a great understanding of people and was always ready to help those less fortunate or in need. Our bank will sorely miss him. We send our sympathy and warm feelings to his family at this time of sorrow. The Board of Directors Merchants Bank of New York Spencer B. Witty, Chairman James G. Lawrence, President
        KARTEN-Isidore. We record the passing our beloved founder Isidore Karten, who with his wife Julia, established The Isidore and Julie Karten Scholarship Fund, and whose grandson, Jonathan, son of Harry and Danielle Karten, is a student in our Early Childhood Program. Hearfelt condolences to the bereaved family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School
      