
        MARX-Virginia Wise. Born May 26, 1905 in St. Louis, MO, died May 23 at White Plains Hospital in White Plains, NY. Beloved wife of Leonard. Sister of Muriel Ducibella, Jane Smith and Rudolph Wise, Jr. Loving mother of Leonard Marx Jr., the late Ellen Marx, Mary Lynn Bianco, and Jennifer Gruenberg. Mrs. Marx was a tireless volunteer on behalf of children and families. She earned a bachelor's degree in psychology from Washington University and a master's degree in child psychology from Teachers College at Columbia University. She is survived by six grandchildren; Richard Marx, Nancy Marx Better, Ned Solot, Claire Solot, Wendy Gruenberg, Jon Gruenberg, and five great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be held at Congregation Kol Ami/JCC, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Plains, NY, Wednesday, May 26th, at 10:00 am. In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions to the Virginia Marx Children's Center at Westchester Community College or to the Virginia and Leonard Marx Lecture Series at Teachers College of Columbia University.
        MARX-Virginia W. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with great sadness the passing of Mrs. Virginia Marx, a dedicated trustee of JBFCS for more than 40 years and a long-standing member of its Child Development Center Divisional Committee. Mrs. Marx's devotion to children was extraordinary. She believed fervently in the importance of education, training and research to advance knowledge and practice in the field of child development and was a great suppporter of the Martha K. Selig Educational Institute, the educational and training arm of JBSCS, and The Center for the Study of Social Work Practice, our joint program with Columbia University. As a result of both her professional education and volunteer experience, she had a keen understanding of developmental issues and the clinical service needs of children. We will miss her input and her support of our work. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Leonard, her three children, Leonard Marx, Jr., Mary Lynn Bianco, and Jennifer Gruenberg; her six grandchildren and her five great grandhildren. Joseph S. Kaplan, President Seymour R. Askin, Jr., Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Exec VP
        MARX-Virginia. The Development Council of the Center for the Study of Social Work Practice (a joint program of the Columbia University School of Social Work and the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services) wishes to express its profound sorrow at the death of one of its founding members, Virginia W. Marx. Her continuing support and keen interest in children, mental health, and education have had a remarkable impact on the Center's unique national role linking social work research and practice. In recognition of her generous support, the Council announced last year the creation at the Center of the Virginia and Leonard Marx Conference and Publication Program. As colleagues and fellow Council members, we have benefited from her vision, leadership, and commitment to furthering our work on behalf of others. We will miss her and offer Leonard Marx and their entire family our heartfelt wishes and sincere condolences. David Lindau, Chair Ronald A. Feldman, Dean, CUSSW Alan B. Siskind, Exec. V.P., JBFCS Edward J. Mullen, Dir., CSSWP
        MARX-Virginia W. The Trustees and the entire community of Teachers College, Columbia University, mourn the passing of Virginia W. Marx. She will always be remembered for her dedication and commitment to children, which began 72 years ago when she came to Teachers College. Mrs. Marx supported the mission of the College as a member of the alumni council and a member of the president's advisory council. As part of her legacy, Mrs. Marx and her husband, Leonard, established the Virginia and Leonard Marx Lecture Series allows Teachers College to present the most outstanding researchers in the field of child development. In addition to the lecture series, the Marx's established the Virginia and Leonard Marx Professorship in Child and Parent Development and Education. Mrs. Marx also served on the advisory board of the Center for Infants and Parents. I offer my personal sincerest condolences to her husband, Leonard, and the entire Marx family. She was a dear friend. Authur Levine, President.
        MARX-Virginia W. The Child Development Center of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, its Divisional Committee and staff, deeply mourn the passing of Mrs. Virginia Marx, a former chairwoman of the CDC Divisional Committee and a devoted friend to young children everywhere. Mrs. Marx was deeply committed to the work of the CDC since its early days. She was an active and cherished member of CDC's Divisional Committee, whose work with troubled children was greatly advanced through Mrs. Marx's devotion, foresight and intelligence. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Leonard, and to her entire family. Renee J. Ward, Chairwoman CDC Divisional Committee Alice Kross Frankel, M.D., Director, CDC
        MARX-Virginia W. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Virginia W. Marx, a very generous supporter and cherished friend of the Jewish community. As an educator and psychologist, she was a respected philanthropist who was deeply committed to improving the quality of life for children and families. We extend our deepest sympathies to her beloved husband, Leonard; her son, Leonard, Jr.; her daughters, Mary Lynn Bianco and Jennifer Gruenberg; her six grandchildren; and five greatgrandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        MARX-Virginia. The Board of Directors and staff of White Plains Hospital Center mourn with sorrow the passing of our dear friend, Virginia Marx, loving wife of Leonard Marx. Their participation in and contributions to our Hospital spanning over 40 years have made possible our pre-eminent position as the leading healthcare provider in Westchester County. Virginia's endearing nature and vivacious spirit will be missed by all of us. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Leonard and their children and grandchildren. H. Guy Leibler, Chairman Jon B. Schandler, President & CEO
        MARX-Virginia W. The Board of Directors of Surprise Lake Camp expresses its sorrow at the passing of Virginia W. Marx. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Leonard, our Past President and Board Member of over 50 years, as well as her entire family. Board of Directors Surprise Lake Camp
        MARX-Virginia Wise. The Board and Staff of Scarsdale Edgemont Family Counseling Service extend our deepest sympathy to the family of Virginia Wise Marx, our longtime friend and supporter. Geraldine Greene, Executive Director Carolyn Glickstein, Board President
      