
        THURSTON - Benjamin Easton, Colonel. September 13, 1903-April 14, 1999, Seattle, WA. Col. Thurston was born in Minneapolis, the only son and first born of James Siddall and Mary Winston Thurston. His mother crusaded for child labor laws and was an opium addict, and the children raised themselves. Ben won an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, NY, class of 1926, for which he was class historian until his death. Following remote postings of the small peace-time Army of the 1930's, he instructed in English, history, mathematics and chess at West Point. He was stationed at Schofield Barracks at the time of the Japanese attack in December 1941. From 1942-44 he and his family lived in numerous Army bases training newly recruited troops. In 1944 he was appointed battalion commander of the 376th regiment of the 94th division. His battalion was in the European campaign in Patton's army and fought through the Brittany peninsula. They were near Dijon, where the two allied forces joined-those fighting toward the east from Normandy, and those of the FrenchAmerican forces fighting up the Rhone river. They were heavily involved in the Battle of the Bulge, fought through the Alsace campaign, and were among the earliest units of forced crossings of the Saar and Rhine rivers. He was wounded in combat three times. He received three Purple Hearts, three Bronze Stars, the Silver Star, and French Legion of Honor. In 1947 he joined the army of occupation in Europe, serving 4 years in Hoechst, Frankfurt, Berlin and Heidelberg. His duties included organizing defenses for Berlin during the airlift. Col. Thurston, fluent in French, was appointed senior American military advisor during the development of NATO in 194950, working with General Jean de Lattre de Tassigny, who was then and during the war the Commander in Chief of the French Army. In 1955, after the development of mutually adversarial relations between him and the Army, Col. Thurston retired. In the 1970's he wrote his wartime experiences from a notebook he secretly kept during WWII, describing techniques used by this frontline midlevel commander to meet the needs of combat situations, such as preventing frozen feet and counting personnel after a messy night time skirmish, Ugly Duckling, 3rd Battalion, 376th Infantry Regiment, WWII, Europe. Ben married Elizabeth Gay Baxter, also of Minneapolis, in 1933. The marriage was happy and they jointly endured the rigors of military life. However, long separations, the trauma of wartime life, and frequent relocation had their effects and in 1959 the marriage was dissolved-surely also a casualty of the war. Following retirement, Ben participated in numerous endeavors, including grade school and high school teaching and uranium prospecting. Traumatic stress disorder, controlled but always present since the war, was a problem which he faced courageously. Chess was a life-long pursuit at which he achieved national rank and was Arizona Grand Champion. Following his divorce, Ben showed typical resolve in recovering his marital status. A considerable number of shortlived marriages were contracted, found unsuitable, and annulled. In 1963 he married Hazel Turman and made a truly loving life with her until her death. His loving children are Dr. Laura Thurston Gutman, Benjamin Easton Thurston, Robb Olmstead Thurston, Eleanor Turman Williams, Ralph Turman and, recently deceased, Jerry Turman. Grandchildren are Paula Gutman, Catherine Gutman, Laura Thurston Newberry, Stephen Thurston, Michael Thurston, Cindy Williams Knotts, Chris Turman, Linda Turman and (deceased) Susan Turman. A spirit of humility and service informed all aspects of his life and in every situation he sought to think of those least able to assert themselves. An example: his will stipulated that the gravediggers should have a fine meal and drink following his burial. He was an avid scholar, collecting wonderful quotations in English, French and Latin, and used them with great wit and skill. Truly he was a great man.
      