
        RECANATI-Raphael. It is with a profound sense of loss that the Board of Trustees, Medical Board and Administration of Beth Israel Medical Center join with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging the passing of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Raphael Recanati, Honorary Trustee of Beth Israel. Few have matched the extraordinary philanthropy of Mr. Recanati and his devoted wife, Dina, to Beth Israel. A consistent thread running through their history of support has been generous donations toward critically important needs of medical education and research, particularly in the areas of neurology, cardiology, nephrology, hepatology, pulmonary medicine, dermatology, orthopaedic surgery, pediatrics, pathology and infectious diseases. Mr. Recanati's creative philanthropic approach served as a crucial resource to our staff, allowing them to make important advances in patient care and expanded medical knowledge. He will forever be remembered for helping to create a clinical and educational environment that makes Beth Israel a vibrant place to study and practice medicine. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Dina, his sons Oudi and Michael, the entire Recanati family and all whose lives have been touched by his extraordinary humanitarian spirit. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Boards of Trustees, Continuum and BIMC Robert G. Newman, MD, President and CEO, Continuum Matthew E. Fink, MD, President and CEO, BIMC Henry Singman, MD, President, BIMC Medical Board
        RECANATI - Raphael. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai N.Y.U. Health are profoundly saddened by the passing of Raphael Recanati, a generous benefactor and a member of the Committee of 1,000, who endowed and named the Recanati/Miller Transplantation Institute. Mr. Recanati's philanthropy enabled Mount Sinai to establish a unique interdisciplinary center that combines the strengths of our numerous individual transplant services, enhances patient care and facilitates research, supporting Mount Sinai's commitment to bringing the life-saving process of transplantation to as many people as possible. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dina, to his sons Udi and Michael, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh Dean Barry R. Freedman Executive Vice President Theresa A. Bischoff Executive Vice President
        RECANATI-Raphael. The physicians, fellows, residents and staff of the Department of Medicine join with the entire Beth Israel Medical Center family in mourning the passing of Honorary Trustee Raphael Recanati, whose encouragement and support have meant so much to the Department's clinical, educational and investigative advances. Among his many philanthropic endeavors have been major support in cardiology; support for liver research and the advancement of hepatologic studies; funding of fellowship training in cardiology, pulmonary medicine and nephrology; and support for infections disease programs. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Dina, the entire Recanati family, and all of his loved ones. Stephen G. Baum, MD, Chairman, Department of Medicine Mark Rosen, MD, Chief, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine Allen M. Kaufman, MD, Chief, Division of Nephrology
        RECANATI-Raphael. The faculty and staff of the Recanati/Miller Transplantation Institute of The Mount Sinai Hospital and School of Medicine mourn with deep sorrow the loss of our great friend and generous benefactor, Raphael Recanati. Mr. Recanati was an extraordinary man of vision and courage. The dynamism of his humor, spirit, strength and wisdom was an inspiration to everyone who knew him. It was our honor and good fortune to have been touched by him. Through his generous philanthropy, countless patients will benefit from life-saving advances in transplantation science and technology. We will miss his presence, but we will always cherish his memory. Our hearts go out to his wife, Dina, and his sons Oudi and Michael and their families. Charles M. Miller, M.D., Director Henry C. Bodenheimer, Jr., M.D. Deputy Director
        RECANATI-Raphael. Generous benefactor and Honorary Trustee of Beth Israel Medical Center, will forever be remembered by the physicians, nurses, and staff of the Hospital's Heart Institute for his extraordinary support of our efforts. Through the Dina and Raphael Recanati Cardiology Research Fund and the RecanatiHorowitz Diagnostic Cardiology Research Fund, he ensured that, at Beth Israel, medical education would work hand-in-hand with clinical research and patient care. For this, and all that he did to advance cardiac care, we will be forever greatful. Our condolences to his beloved wife, Dina, and the entire Recanati family. Thomas Killip, MD, Director, The Heart Institute of Beth Israel Steven F. Horowitz, MD, Chief, The Thomas Killip, MD, Division of Cardiology
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Board of Directors and Officers of PEC Israel Economic Corporation deeply mourn the passing of Raphael Recanati, our former Chairman and guiding force. For over 28 years his foresight, wisdom, exceptional business acumen, and strong leadership guided PEC to become a preeminent investment company in Israel and an integral part of the IDB Holding Group. His devotion and generosity to cultural, educational, and medical institutions in Israel and the United States was without peer. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Dina, his sons Oudi and Michael, and their families. He will sorely be missed by all who knew him and all whose lives he touched with his philanthropy. Frank J. Klein, President Board of Directors
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Board of Directors, Management and entire staff of Overseas Shipholding Group, Inc, deeply mourn the passing of our founder, Mr. Raphael Recanati. He was a man of extraordinary vision whose leadership created and sustained our Company. Among his many substantial business interests and activities throughout the world, shipping was his special passion. His uncommon humanity was ever present and he was always available to help and to guide. He was as beloved as he was respected. We will miss him greatly. To his wife, Dina, his sons Oudi and Michael, the grandchildren, family and all who loved him, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, President
        RECANATI-Raphael. Beth Israel Honorary Trustee Raphael Recanati will forever be remembered by the clinical and administrative staffs in the Alan and Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology. He leaves behind a legacy of support that has helped advance the study of critical diseases and new approaches to medical care, while, at the same time, fostering educational opportunities for the physicians of tommorrow. To his family and friends, and all his loved ones, our deepest sympathies. Susan B. Bressman, MD Chairman The Alan and Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology
        RECANATI-Raphael. It is with profound sadness that we acknowledge the loss of our great friend and benefactor. Mr. Recanati's great courage and compassion touched us all, and his generosity will benefit generations of physicians and patients yet to come. Our best wishes of comfort go out to the Recanati family. Steven F. Horowitz, M.D., and the Division of Medical Cardiology Beth Israel Medical Center
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Officers and employees of Orama Partners are deeply saddened by the passing of Raphael Recanati, a visionary man who led our parent company and who was the father of our Chairman, Michael Recanati. We extend our condolences to Mrs. Dina Recanati, Oudi, Michael and the entire Recanati family.
        RECANATI-Raphael. The University of Haifa family mourns the passing of our friend and supporter Mr. Raphael Recanati. May the Recanati family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and of Jerusalem. Yehuda Hayuth, President
      