
        WINTER-Marvin S. 78. Of Manhattan and Delray Beach, FL, on May 7, 1999. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted father of Benjamin and Susan Winter, James and Susan Winter, Douglas and Bonnie Winter, and Karen (Winter) and Barry Miller. Loving grandfather of David, Alison, Jennifer, Stacy, Kira, Eric and Jonathan Winter, and Nathan, Matthew and Dana Miller. Dear brother of the late Beatrice Spitz, Ethel Schanzer and Natalie Ballen. Funeral services on Monday, May 10 at 12:30 PM at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Avenue at 81st Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to UJA Federation or The American Heart Association.
        WINTER-Marvin S. The Westchester Jewish Center family mourns the death of our esteemed member and benefactor Marvin S. Winter, and extends our sympathy to his wife Eleanor, his son and past WJC Officer Benjamin Winter and his wife Susan, and to the entire Winter family. As a dedicated member for over 50 years, he will surely be missed by all. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Randy Heller, President Jeffrey Segelman, Rabbi Dr. Irving Koslowe Rabbi Emeritus
        WINTER-Marvin S. The firm of Richards & O'Neil LLP, mourns the passing of our friend and client, Marvin S. Winter. He was a true gentleman in his professional and personal life. We extend our condolences to his wife Eleanor, and his children Ben, Jim, Douglas and Karen, and their families. Richards & O'Neil LLP
        WINTER-Marvin S. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Eleanor and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch of the Bd Paul S. Schreiber, President
        WINTER-Marvin S. The officers and employees of Winter Management Corp extend their deepest condolences to the family of our late President. We will miss his wise counsel. He was a guiding hand and friend to all of us.
      