
        WINTER-Marvin S.. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of a good friend, Marvin S. Winter, a dedicated supporter and champion of Jewish causes who left a legacy of philanthropy embraced by his family. Marvin and his beloved wife, Eleanor, contributed generously through our New York and Palm Beach Campaigns. We extend our deepest sympathy to Eleanor; to Marvin's son, Benjamin, and daughter-in-law, Susan; his son, James & daughter-in-law, Susan; his son, Douglas and daughter-inlaw, Bonnie; his daughter Karen Miller, and son-in-law, Barry; and his ten granchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        WINTER-Marvin S. The Partners and staff of Marks Shron & Company, LLP, would like to express our deep sorrow at the passing of our longtime client and valued friend, Mike Winter, and to send our sincere condolences to his family. His warmth, humor and wisdom were greatly appreciated and will be remembered and missed. His leadership of The Winter Organization was always characterized by generosity and humanity. Harry Moehringer, Partner
        WINTER-Marvin S. The administration, staff and associates of Charles H. Greenthal Management and the entire West Group of Companies extends our heartfelt sympathies to the family and the entire Winter Organization. Marvin's leadership and friendship will be greatly missed by us all. William West, Chairman Jonathan West, President Joyce West, Executive V.P.
        WINTER-Marvin S. The firm of SBWE mourns the passing of our friend and client, Marvin S. Winter. He was a gentleman held in the highest regard by friends and associates. We extend our condolences to his wife Eleanor, and his children Ben, Jim, Douglas and Karen, and their families. SBWE, Inc.
        WINTER-Marvin S. I am very sorry about the passing of this elegant man. He was always patient, wiling to teach and listen. I shall miss him. I extend my sympathy to Mrs. Winter, Benjamin, James and the entire family. Josh N. Kuriloff
        WINTER-Marvin S. The Skidmore College community mourns the passing of its loyal friend and benefactor. We send our condolences to his wife, Eleanor Linder Winter, Class of 1943, and to the entire family.
        WINTER-Marvin S. We at Cushman & Wakefield are saddened by the passing of our friend, Marvin S. Winter. He was a gentleman and true professional. He will be missed. Cushman & Wakefield, Inc.
        WINTER-Marvin S. The Officers and employees of Alliance Brokerage Corp. extend their deepest condolences to the family of Marvin Winter. He will always be remembered as a kind and thoughtful friend.
        WINTER-Marvin S. The firm of Robinson Silverman Pearce Aronsohn and Berman, LLP extends its deepest sympathy to the family of Marvin S. Winter.
      