
        MARX-Virginia Wise. Born May 26, 1905 in St. Louis, MO, died May 23 at White Plains Hospital in White Plains, NY. Beloved wife of Leonard. Sister of Muriel Ducibella, Jane Smith and Rudolph Wise, Jr. Loving mother of Leonard Marx Jr., Mary Lynn Bianco, and Jennifer Gruenberg. Mrs. Marx was a tireless volunteer on behalf of children and families. She earned a bachelor's degree in psychology from Washington University and a master's degree in child psychology from Teachers College at Columbia University. She is survived by six grandchildren; Richard Marx, Nancy Marx Better, Ned Solot, Claire Solot, Wendy Gruenberg and Jon Gruenberg, and by five great-grandchildren; Carolyn Cohen, David Better, Charlie Better, Sarah Better and Griffin Kehl. Funeral services will be held at Congregation Kol Ami/ JCC, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Plains, NY, Wednesday, May 26th, at 10:00 am. In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions to the Virginia Marx Children's Center at Westchester Community College or to the Virginia and Leonard Marx Lecture Series at Teachers College of Columbia University.
        MARX-Virginia W. The Board of Trustees and the President of Westchester Community College join the Board of Directors of Westchester Community College Foundation in remembering the many years of leadership and support of quality education provided by Virginia W. Marx as a Vice President and Member of the Foundations' Board. Her interests in the welfare of children led to her most significant legacy at the college, the Virginia Marx Children's Center. Her pioneering vision and support, in the early 80's, of the need for quality childcare for student-parents attending the college led to the establishment of the Center in 1986. Virginia actively served on the Center's Advisory Committee that directed the effort to expand the program in 1997 to serve ninety-six children including infants, to open a new state-of-theart building, and to develop the program into an award-winning early-childhood education resource. She was always an advocate for the college and she will be missed. Our sincerest condolences go out to her husband Leonard, her three children, and the other members of her family.
        MARX-Virginia W. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Virginia W. Marx. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Leonard, and to the entire family. William Ettelson, President Michael Roth, Secretary
      