
        HESS-Leon. Peacefully on May 7, 1999 of complications from a blood disorder. Beloved husband of Norma; cherished father of Constance and Dr. Sankey Williams, Marlene Hess and James Zirin, John and Susan Hess; adored grandfather of Elizabeth and Jennifer Williams, Peter and Margaret Friedland, Michael, David and William Hess; dear brother of Betty Gilbert, dear brother-in-law of Ruth Hess, Warren and Rhoda Wilentz and the late Robert and Jacqueline Wilentz, treasured son of the late Ethel and Mores Hess and son-inlaw of the late Lena and David T. Wilentz. In lieu of flowers contributions to your favorite charity would be appreciated. Funeral services will be held at Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 East 87 Street, New York City on May 10, 1999 at 11AM.
        HESS-Leon. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff, management and employees of Lenox Hill Hospital express profound sorrow at the loss of Leon Hess, our devoted friend and benefactor. It is difficult to express our deep sadness at the passing of this exceptional man and esteemed member of the Lenox Hill Hospital family. Mr. Hess' extraordinary philanthropy and his devotion to strengthening our hospital and its future will forever link his name with ours. He believed in Lenox Hill Hospital, our physicians and our role in New York City healthcare. His confidence inspired us all. On countless occasions, we benefited from his vision, his wise counsel and his active support of our work. We are exceedingly greatful for his outstanding gifts to the Hess Center for Interventional Cardiology, The Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma, and, most recently The Leon Hess Medical Research Fund, as well as to many other hospital programs. Put simply, Mr. Hess quietly and effectively enhanced the ability of Lenox Hill Hospital to serve our patients and the community. And for that we shall be forever thankful. We feel fortunate to have known this kind and gentle man whose behind the scenes deeds, which we so often witnessed, reflected his deep and abiding concern for others. We honor the memory of Leon Hess and extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Norma, his daughters Marlene, a Leonx Hill Hospital Trustee, and Connie, his son John, his grandchildren, and to all those whose lives he touched. James S. Marcus, Chairman, Board of Trustees Gladys George, President & CEO Stephen A. Obstbaum, M.D., President, Medical Board
        HESS-Leon. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of Leon Hess, who served with distinction as a Trustee and Honorary Trustee for the past thirty-three years. Mr. Hess also was a generous long-time benefactor who made many significant gifts to Mount Sinai, including the endowment of the Eugene W. Friedman, M.D. Professorship in Surgical Oncology and a recent generous gift to our Campaign For Excellence. He will be remembered most fondly, with gratitude for his leaderhip, commitment, devoted service and philanthropy, and he will be profoundly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Norma, to his son John, a distinguished Trustee, to his daughters Marlene, and Connie Williams, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, M.D., President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President Theresa A. Bischoff, Executive Vice President
        HESS-Leon. The entire staff of the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital expresses its profound sorrow at the passing of Leon Hess, a very special friend. It was Mr. Hess' early and enthusiastic support of our institute and his invaluable wisdom and guidance that helped articulate a vision for an emerging, new medical discipline into a reality. He understood from the very beginning that sports medicine would not only benefit professional athletes such as his New York Jets, but also every weekend athlete. We will always be indebted to Leon Hess for his generosity over the years, his confidence in our work, and above all, his invaluable friendship. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Norma and his children Marlene Hess, Connie Williams and John Hess. James A. Nicholas, M.D., Founding Director Stephen J. Nicholas, M.D., Director Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma
        HESS-Leon. The Directors, Officers and Employees of Amerada Hess Corporation deeply mourn the loss of their beloved friend and colleague Leon Hess. His tireless energy, uncompromising integrity, business acumen, keen vision, quiet generosity, great wisdom and deep commitment to family will continue to guide our lives. From humble beginnings, he built a great American industrial enterprise. He served his country with distinction. He cared deeply for his friends, his business associates and his employees. He was compassionate and considerate of all those whose lives he touched. A true gentleman always, he had the very highest standards of ethical conduct, honesty and personal and business values. He was a man of great moral courage, with a deep religous faith and a passion for the truth. We loved him deeply and will miss him greatly. To his wife, Norma, his daughters, Connie and Marlene, his son John and his grandchildren we express our deepest sympathy.
        HESS-Leon. It is with great sadness that the Board, Staff, and Friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., and the Lincoln Center Institute mourn the passing of Leon Hess. He was a modest man, a kind man, a philanthropist and a wonderful friend. His involvement and support stretches back to a time when Lincoln Center was only an idea. Our thoughts and prayers go to his wife Norma Hess, a member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors and a member of the Board of Directors of the Lincoln Center Institute. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Norma, the Hess family and to their friends and associates. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. Gladys Chang Hardy, Vice Chairman Scott Noppe-Brandon, Executive Director Lincoln Center Institute
        HESS-Leon. The world has lost one of the great men of the twentieth century, our founder, leader and mentor, Leon Hess. Leon's unflagging support and inspiration, his extraordinary encourgement and faith, kept us on course, always striving for success. Leon taught us to understand and to appreciate the importance of honor, hard work, fair dealing and full commitment, principles he practiced every day of his long and magnificent life. The Leon Hess legacy to the Jets and to the National Football League may be best expressed as loyalty; loyalty to your cause, to your fellow man, to your family and, most importantly, to your principles. Our's, is a better world because of Leon's vast achievements, a world which will benefit from his everlasting contributions on so many signifcant and varied levels. We remember you Leon with love, with respect and with awe, and with the honor you so richly deserve. THE NEW YORK JETS
        HESS-Leon. The entire Hofstra University community grieves at the loss of a distinguished and greatly admired member of the Hofstra family, Leon Hess. The people of Hofstra extend their condolences to his loving wife, Norma, his three gracious children and seven grandchildren. A noble man of impeccable character, his quiet encouragement and thoughtfulness signficantly helped to transform Hofstra University over the last quarter of a century. His investments in Hofstra are visible from any vantage point on the campus and his memory and imprint are indelible. His modesty, dignity and respect for the individual is a lasting lesson for all. With respect and affection, each Hofstra flag has been ordered to half mast. No greater friend hath Hofstra than Leon Hess. The Hofstra University Community
        HESS-Leon. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board and Members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City acknowledge the passing of a devoted and generous supporter. Leon Hess was a special friend of our founder, Jack Hausman, and a staunch proponent of the needs of children and adults with cerebral palsyand their families-since 1960. In recent years, employee groups from Amerada Hess, inspired by his generosity, added their own support by donating gifts and toys, hosting holiday parties, and adopting five families who received needed items. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mrs. Hess and to the family. Leo Hausman, President Edward R. Matthews, Exec. Dir Ronald J.H. Napal, Dir. of Dev. United Cerebral Palsy of NYC, Inc.
        HESS-Leon. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of Leon Hess, a man whose life reflected the human spirit at its very best. His accomplishments were stellar and his contributions to the people of our city innumerable. Dignity was his constant companion, evoking the admiration not only of those whose lives he touched directly, but those who knew him by name only. He will be remembered for blessing. With his loved ones, we mourn his passing, while forever expressing gratitude for his life. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        HESS-Leon. The Board of Directors and Staff of the New York Service for the Handicapped are deeply saddened at the death of Leon Hess, who with his wife, Norma, have been loyal supporters of Camp Oakhurst for more than 30 years. His genuine interest in the welfare of disabled children was instrumental in developing new and expanded recreational facilities for them at Camp Oakhurst. To Norma, their children, and the rest of his family, go our heartfelt condolences. Marilyn Friedman, President Marvin A. Raps, Exec. Director
        HESS-Leon. The entire team of the Hess Center for Interventional Cardiology at Lenox Hill Hospital is deeply saddened by the death of Leon Hess, whose pivotal support to our program has made a significant difference in the lives of many thousands of individuals and enabled us to sustain a level of medical excellence in cardiac care. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Jeffrey W. Moses, M.D., Chief Hess Center for Interventional Cardiology
        HESS-Leon. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the death of the Theater's very good friend, Leon Hess, and extend their sympathy and condolences to Norma and the entire family. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer
        HESS-Leon. The members of the Cardiology Section of Lenox Hill Hospital regret the passing of our dear friend and benefactor Leon Hess. We extend our sincere sympathy to Mrs. Norma Hess and the entire family. He will be greatly missed. Nicholas DePasquale, MD, Chief, Cardiology. Neil Coplan, MD, Associate Chief, Cardiology. Mary Ann MacKenzie, RN, Administrator, Cardiology
        HESS-Leon. The Board of Trustees of Monmouth Health Care Foundation expresses its sadness at the passing of our very special benefactor of Monmouth Medical Center and extends its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. Joseph A. Torcivia, Chairman Bridget Murphy, Director
        HESS - Leon. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Leon Hess. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Bernard D. Karasic, Pres. Charles Weissman, Sec'y
        HESS-Leon. The Shareholders, the Board of Directors, and Wallack Management Company, Inc., extend their condolences to the family of Leon Hess. We are all saddened by his loss.
        HESS-Leon. We have all lost a special friend and generous man. Norma and the Hess family have my deepest sympathy. Leo Hausman
      