
        STEWART-George Taylor III, 74, of Lynchburg, VA, died Tuesday, May 25, 1999, at Virginia Baptist Hospital after a lengthy illness. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Bonnie Myers Stewart. He is also survived by his daughter Diane Stewart Carrington & her husband, Fredrick W. ''Rick'' Carrington; by his daughter Susan Stewart Dupuis; and by four grandchildren, Paul Carrington, John Carrington, Leigh Carrington & Taylor Dupuis, all of Lynchburg. Mr. Stewart was born in Manhattan December 29, 1924, the son of the late Fargo Calvin Stewart and Berthe Pelleton Stewart. Mr. Stewart grew up on Long Island, graduating from Brooklyn Tech in 1943 and Wesleyan University in 1947. He also attended Williams College and New York University School of Law. He served as an officer in the U.S. Navy during World War II in the Pacific and Atlantic theatres of operations. He began his career in 1947 with the Hartford Accident and Indemnity Company. He was an insurance stock analyst with Geyer & Company and Shelby Cullom Davis & Company and was in charge of the insurance stocks department with Blyth and Co. He was also a member of the New York Society of Security Analysts for over 40 years. In 1963, he joined First Colony Life Insurance Company in Lynchburg as a director and was its chairman and chief executive officer from 1965 until his retirement in 1992. He was also chairman of American Mayflower Life Insurance Company of New York. Mr. Stewart served as a director or trustee of numerous companies, including Ethyl Corporation, Crestar Financial Corporation and Media General, Inc. A member of First Presbyterian Church of Lynchburg, he served as an ordained elder for over four decades and as a long-time teacher of the Manson-Stewart Bible Class. Mr. Stewart was a vital part of Lynchburg civic activities and charitable organizations and the recipient of many awards for such endeavors. His contributions to the community included service as chairman of the board of trustees of Lynchburg College, where he was awarded an honorary doctorate degree of humane letters. He was a major leader in the restoration of Jefferson's Poplar Forest. He also served as chairman of the board for the Greater Lynchburg Community Trust and president and director of the Greater Lynchburg Chamber of Commerce, and was the Pro Opera Civica award recipient in 1982. He was on the advisory board of the Salvation Army, a board member of Step With Links, Inc., and formerly served as chairman of the Special Finance Committee of Thomas Road Baptist Church. In 1988, he was named the recipient of the Douglas Mooers Award of Excellence, given by the National Association of Independent Life Brokerage Agencies. He was a member and former director of Boonsboro Country Club and the Piedmont Club, and a member of the Metropolitan Club of New York. A service will be conducted at 2 P.M., Thursday, May 27, at First Presbyterian Church in Lynchburg. The family requests that memorial contributions be made to Jefferson's Poplar Forest, Forest, VA. 24551, to the Greater Lynchburg Community Trust, or to the First Presbyterian Church, 1215 V.E.S. Road, Lynchburg, VA 24503. For further information, contact Heritage Funeral Services at 804-239-2405.
      