
        HESS-Leon. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sadness the death of Leon Hess, a Member of the Association since 1969 and an Advisory Director since 1977. We recall with deep affection his commitment to the Met, including very generous leadership participation in all aspects of our activities, especially the building of the Opera House at Lincoln Center, the Patron Program, the creation of our first endowment fund and the current effort to ensure the Metropolitan Opera's continuing artistic excellence in the new century. We particularly remember Leon's presence at Opening Nights and his special pleasure in attending the Opera from the box he endowed when our company moved to Lincoln Center. His philanthropy leaves a memorable legacy to those institutions who were fortunate to know him as a friend and will be an inspiration for generations to come. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Norma, and his family. James Kinnear, Chairman Bruce Crawford, President Joseph Volpe, General Manager
        HESS-Leon. It is with great sadness that the Board, Staff, and Friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., and the Lincoln Center Institute mourn the passing of Leon Hess. He was a modest man, a kind man, a philanthropist and a wonderful friend. His involvement and support stretches back to a time when Lincoln Center was only an idea. Our thoughts and prayers go to his wife Norma Hess, a member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors and a member of the Board of Directors of the Lincoln Center Institute. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Norma, the Hess family and to their friends and associates. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. Gladys Chang Hardy, Vice Chairman Scott Noppe-Brandon, Executive Director Lincoln Center Institute
        HESS-Leon. The world has lost one of the great men of the twentieth century, our founder, leader and mentor, Leon Hess. Leon's unflagging support and inspiration, his extraordinary encourgement and faith, kept us on course, always striving for success. Leon taught us to understand and to appreciate the importance of honor, hard work, fair dealing and full commitment, principles he practiced every day of his long and magnificent life. The Leon Hess legacy to the Jets and to the National Football League may be best expressed as loyalty; loyalty to your cause, to your fellow man, to your family and, most importantly, to your principles. Our's, is a better world because of Leon's vast achievements, a world which will benefit from his everlasting contributions on so many signifcant and varied levels. We remember you Leon with love, with respect and with awe, and with the honor you so richly deserve. THE NEW YORK JETS
        HESS-Leon. Columbia University, the Advisory Board, the Faculty and the Administration of the Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University are profoundly saddened by the passing of Leon Hess, whose generosity to our School and his exceptional friendship for our benefactors Joseph and Phyllis Mailman will be forever remembered by all of us at the School. We send our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Norma and to all of his children and grandchildren. George Rupp, Ph.D. President, Columbia University Herbert Pardes, M.D. Vice President, Health Sciences Allan Rosenfield, M.D. Dean, Mailman School of Public Health
        HESS-Leon. The attorneys and staff of Hill, Betts & Nash LLP are greatly saddened by the loss of Leon Hess who led a remarkable life, and in so doing touched the lives of many with his wisdom, integrity and generosity. For more than thirty years, he had an extraordinary friendship with our late senior partner, Eli Ellis, a friendship of great meaning for both of them. To his wife, Norma, his daughters Constance and Marlene, his son John, and his grandchildren, we offer our deepest condolences.
        HESS-Leon. It is with profound sadness that the officers, trustees and family of congregants of Temple Beth El of Oakhurst, New Jersey, note their sorrow at the loss of their dear friend, Leon Hess. A longstanding member, a gracious and elegant man, he will forever be remembered as a kind and generous benefactor. We offer our sincere condolences to all the Hess family. Temple Beth El of Oakhurst, NJ
        HESS - Leon. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant and benefactor. We extend to his wife, Norma, and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch of the Bd Paul S. Schreiber, President
        HESS-Leon. Remembering and celebrating the life of Leon Hess, quintessential gentleman and most loved friend, we recall with tender thoughts his quiet humor, soaring intelligence, unbridled strength, abiding generosity and that unforgettable grin. The Family of Joseph L. Mailman
        HESS-Leon. The Shareholders, the Board of Directors, and Wallack Management Company, Inc., extend their condolences to the family of Leon Hess. We are all saddened by his loss.
      