
        GRUNDMAN-Rhoda. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved wife of the late Irwin Grundman and mother of Dr. Jayne G. Beker, Board member of our Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology. Dr. Jayne and Harvey Beker, YU Guardians, endowed FGS' Irwin Grundman Lecture Hall in the Louis E. and Dora Rousso Community Health Center and established the Beker Family Scholarship. We extend our heartfelt condolences to children, Dr. Jayne (and Harvey) Becker, Rodney (and Carol) Grundman, and Dr. Michael (and Margaret) Grundman, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        GRUNDMAN - Rhoda. S/A/R Academy offers condolences to Jayne Beker, esteemed chairman Board of Education, upon the loss of her beloved mother as well as Harvey Beker, vice president of the Board of Trustees, Sheri ('91), Alison ('96) and Emily ('07) and to the entire family. May they find comfort in her memory and among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President
        GRUNDMAN-Rhoda. The Aleph Society extends its deepest condolences to our esteemed members, Jayne Beker, her husband, Harvey and their children upon the passing of Jayne's mother. She was a beloved ''eishes chayil''. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Adin Steinsaltz Jack Nash, Chairman Ludwig Bravmann, President
        GRUNDMAN-Rhoda. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to our member Jayne Beker, her husband Harvey and the entire family on the loss of their beloved mother, mother-inlaw and grandmother, Rhoda Grundman. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President
        GRUNDMAN-Rhoda. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved mother of its devoted parent and generous benefactor, Dr. Jayne Beker and extend heartfelt sympathy to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman, Board of Trustees
      