
        COHEN-Richard M. Died May 27 at 1:30 A.M., at the age of 62. Loving husband of Barbara, devoted father of Jimmy, Andy, Holly and the late Tina. He is survived by his mother Frances, his sister Marilyn and husband Richard, his brother Arthur and wife Karen, and his aunt Rose. This gentle and caring man will be deeply missed by all who knew him. His love and enjoyment of life was an inspiration. Funeral services will be held at Beth Jacob Congregation, 9030 West Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA on Friday, May 28, at 11:00 a.m. Phone (310) 278-1911. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be given in Richard Cohen's name to the Rape Foundation, Pediatric AIDS Foundation and the Jackie Robinson Foundation.
        COHEN-Richard. To my youngest brother, Richard, whom during his childhood years I was a second mother and who became my mentor and my rock, I will always miss you and love you deeply. Your loving sister, Marilyn
        COHEN-Richard. The Davimos family has only known Richard for a very short time but his special warmth in joining our family with the Cohen family will remain with us as one of the warmest memories of our lives. The Davimos Family Melissa Warman, Cindy Felman
        COHEN-Richard M. The firm of Shanholt Glassman Hoffman Klein & Co. is saddened by the sudden passing of Richard M. Cohen, longtime friend and client whose relationship has spanned over several generations. We appreciated Richard's astuteness, generosity and kindness during his lifetime and will miss him greatly. Mr. Cohen is survived by his wife, Barbara Grant Cohen. He is also survived by his children, James, Andrew and Holly. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire family.
        COHEN-Richard M. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and esteemed client. We treasured Richard's warmth, humor and wisdom. He will be remembered and missed. We extend our deepest sympathies and condolences to all members of his family including his wife, Barbara, his three children, his sister, Marilyn Davimos, his brother, Arthur, and sister-in-law, Karen. The Partners and Staff of Herrick, Feinstein LLP
        COHEN-Richard M. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our long-standing dear friend and good partner, Richard. We will miss his insightful, analytical mind, his strength and his zest for living. Our sincere and deepest condolences to his wife Barbara, his children Andy, James and Holly, his sister Marilyn Davimos and his brother Arthur. Siema and Arnold Sollar Elaine and Edwin Eisen
        COHEN-Richard M. May 27, 1999. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their esteemed member, Richard, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Barbara, and his family. Board of Governors Richard A. Horowitz, President
        COHEN-Richard M. The Board of Directors and officers of The Arlen Corporation express their sincerest sympathy to our Chairman of the Board, Arthur G. Cohen, and his family upon the untimely passing of his beloved brother, Richard. Allan J. Marrus President
        COHEN-Richard M. The Board of Directors, officers and employees of Automotive Accessories Group, Inc. extend their heartfelt condolences to Arthur G. Cohen and his family upon the untimely death of his dear brother, Richard. Stephen B. Delman Corporate Secretary
        COHEN-Richard M. The Richard Tucker Music Foundation and the Tucker family express their condolences on the passing of Richard M. Cohen, a patron and dearfriend for many years. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the entire Cohen family. Barry and Joan Tucker
      