
        GOELZ-Shirley J. On May 25, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Charles V. Goelz. Devoted mother of Adam and Joshua Galef and Peter and Thomas Goelz. Loving sister of Eleanor Stillman. Also survived by five grandchildren and two nieces. Funeral private. Contributions in her memory to the Project Reachout Division of the Goddard Riverside Comm. Center, 593 Columbus Ave., NY, New York 10024 would be appreciated. A memorial service will be scheduled at a later date.
        GREENE-Jerome L. On May 27, 1999, at age 93. Beloved husband of Dawn Greene. Loving father of Patricia Humphrey and the late Cynthia Sue Greene & stepfather of Christina McInerney. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Joel Humphrey. Interment is private. Memorial service at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street, on Tuesday, June 15th, at 4PM. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Montefiore Children's Hospital.
        GREENE-Jerome L. The President, the Board of Trustees and entire Montefiore Medical Center community deeply mourn the death of our dear friend and supporter, Jerome L. Greene. A devoted and active trustee since 1972, he had an extraordinary impact on the quality of health and life of thousands of Montefiore patients and residents of the Bronx and Westchester. Combining his skills as a lawyer with his belief in Montefiore as an instrument of social responsibility, he led the medical center in the founding, 18 years ago, of the Mosholu Preservation Corporation, a nonprofit community development support corporation that has, with his guidance, saved housing, revitalized neighborhoods and created innovative projects such as moderate income housing, a community newspaper that serves 15,000 households, the first and only NYC business improvement district sponsored under the auspices of an academic institution, a vast program of graffiti removal and a youth job training program-all of which have played a role in the Bronx's nationally recognized resurgence. He believed in the crucial role of academic medical centers such as Montefiore in advancing the health of communities through research, education and provision of high-quality care, and with his beloved wife, Dawn, he helped Montefiore create the Jerome L. and Dawn Greene Medical Arts Pavilion, a state-of-the-art building that opened in 1997 offering a full range of general and specialty services in an ambulatory care setting. More recently, he and his wife have been generous benefactors of The Children's Hospital at Montefiore, scheduled to open in 2001. In 1991, at its annual Celebrate Montefiore dinner dance, the medical center honored this remarkable man of vision and commitment for his exemplary stewardship. This year, Montefiore nominated him for the United Hospital Fund's 1999 Distinguished Community Service Award. The medical center has lost one of its greatest friends. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his loving wife, Dawn, and their entire family. Spencer Foreman, MD, President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        GREENE-Jerome L. The Directors and Officers of Mosholu Preservation Corporation (MPC) note with profound regret the passing of our founding Chairman, Jerome L. Greene. Mr. Greene's foresight in founding MPC, Montefiore Medical Center's non-profit community development support corporation, has served the community and its health for 18 years. The establishment of MPC was rooted in Mr. Greene's strong belief that Montefiore's commitment to broader public health issues and its long tradition of social responsibility was directly related to neighborhood preservation. His generosity and hands-on leadership of the Corporation made possible the creation of solutions to major problems of community life. His vision helped form a national model for institutional participation in community development. His efforts will mean better lives for people for generations to come. Lewis Henkind, Chairman Dart Westphal, President Spencer Foreman, MD, Secretary Maurice E. LaBonne, Treasurer
        GREENE-Jerome. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of Jerome L. Greene. A Trustee of the School since 1985, he brought extraordinary leadership to the institution through his exceptional intellect, unique vision, and caring sensitivity to the needs of all members of the Juilliard Community. With a quick wit and a devotion to the performing and visual arts, he enriched us all through his presence and commitment to the School. The Jerome L. Greene Fellowships stand as the first scholarship fund in the history of Juilliard to be created for all three of the performing arts taught at the School. His wise counsel and generosity also made Juilliard's residence hall a reality. We send our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Dawn, and all of his family. He will be profoundly missed by us all. Mary Rodgers Guettel, Chairman Joseph W. Polisi, President
        GREENE-Jerome L. Once in a great while there comes along a person, who in life makes an indelible impression upon others by their very being...that their memory will likely never fade. Jerome L. Greene was one of those rare individuals. The Carlyle has long been a part of his life, and he has been so very important to this New York institution. We cherish most and value greatest that we were privileged to know, love and be influenced by him, for he was a very special man. Dan Camp and the Staff of The Carlyle
        GREENE-Jerome L. The firm of Richards & O'Neil, LLP, expresses its sadness on the passing of its longtime friend and client, Jerome L. Greene. Jerry was a mentor to several of our partners. We admired his legal and business acumen, his dynamic personality and his generous nature. His many charitable endeavors on behalf of educational, medical and cultural organizations will leave a lasting legacy. We mourn his loss and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Dawn and his family.
        GREENE-Jerome. The Board and Staff of the Citizens Committee for New York City note with deep sorrow the loss of its beloved director Jerry Greene. A dedicated New Yorker, he believed in the power of the city's people to make life better. His gentle humor and generous spirit will be missed. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Dawn, his daughter Patricia, and his entire family. Oz, Michael and the entire Board and Staff.
        GREENE-Jerome L. The Board of Directors and members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Jerome L. Greene, whose many years of friendship and devotion to the Club will always be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Richard M. Feldman, President Edward J. Landau, Secretary
        GREENE-Jerome L. The Winter Organization and the entire Winter family extend their deepest condolences to the family of Jerome L. Greene, an esteemed friend and partner for many years. We will miss his wise counsel and warm wit.
        GREENE-Jerome L. With condolences to Dawn and her family. We bid a sad farewell to our good friend and partner, Jerome L. Greene. Liliane and Norman Peck
      