
        TEPPERBERG - Jerome, M.D.. Age 62. On May 12 from complications from cancer after a heroic battle. Cherished husband of Susann. Adored father of Suki, Ricky, Josh, Noah, Judy and Benjamin (deceased). Compassionate physician beloved by students, patients and colleagues. Jerry was the former Director of Pediatric Neurology and the current Chief of Pediatric and Neuroligical Services at Maimonides Developmental Center until his death. Professor of Neurology at SUNY Downstate. Services May 14 at Noon, ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Shiva at home, Saturday evening, Sunday and Monday. Contributions may be made to the Benjamin Tepperberg Memorial Fund, Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn.
        TEPPERBERG-Jerome, MD. Department of Pediatrics of Maimonides Medical Center mourns the loss of its long time and esteemed member. Jerry joined the department in 1969 upon completion of his training in pediatrics at NYUBellevue Hospital, his chief residency at Beth Israel Hospital and his pediatric neurology fellowship at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was a stalwart member of the department all these years serving as Director of the Division of Pediatric Neurology until 1996 when he assumed responsibility as Chief, Pediatric and Neurologic Services in our Developmental Center. He was an excellent clinician and teacher and a wonderful human being. During his final illness he continued working and maintained an optimistic outlook. He was a remarkable person and will be sorely missed. Our sympathy is extended to his wife and children. Steven P. Shelov, MD, M.S. Chairman, Dept of Pediatrics Maimonides Medical Center TEPPERBERG - Jerome, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Jerome Tepperberg. Dr. Tepperberg was a pediatric neurologist associated with Maimonides Medical Center for over 30 years. For many years he served as the attending in charge of this division. He was also involved with the Developmental Center. He served on the Medical Staff Matters Committee and other hospital committees. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Sincere condolences are extended to his entire family. Jacob Shani, M.D., President David Feldman, M.D., Pres. Elect Salvatore DeGliuomini, M.D., Secy Steven Farber, M.D., Treasurer TEPPERBERG-Dr. Jerome. The Department of Psychiatry of Maimonides Medical Center mourns the passing of Dr. Jerome Tepperberg, a physician of distinction, who for many years served with distinction in our Developmental Center. The sick children he so cared for have been deprived of a champion and our staff of a beloved colleague. Our condolences to his wife Susan and to his children. Marvin H. Lipkowitz, M.D. Chairman Nora Smith, M.D. Associate Chairperson TEPPERBERG-Jerome, Dr. The entire Maimonides Medical Center family extends its deepest sympathy to the family of Dr. Jerome Tepperberg. Dr. Tepperberg served Maimonides brilliantly as Director of its Division of Pediatric Neurology for three decades. We offer sincere condolences to his wife and children. Martin D. Payson, Chairman Board of Trustees Stanley Brezenoff, President
      