
        KRAUSER-Mary Kay Edwards. Of Greenwich Ct. On May 11, 1999. She was the Senior Vice President, Merchandising and Design, for Sara Lee Foundations. Mary Kay was a cherished wife and a loving mother. She is survived by her husband, Robert S. Krauser, a son, Robert Edwards Krauser, and a daughter, Kathryn Edwards Krauser, and a brother, Edward P. Edwards. A mass of Christian burial will be celebrated at St Michael's Church, 469 North St, Greenwich, Ct, on Friday, May 14, 1999, at 11 AM. Visiting hours will be on Thursday from 3-5 and 7-9 at the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home, 31 Arch St, Greenwich Ct. Memorial contributions may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center for Ovarian Cancer Research, 1275 York Ave, NY NY 10021, or Carlow College, 3333 5th Ave, Pittsburgh, Pa 15213.
        KRAUSER-Mary Kay Edwards. Intimate Apparel Executive and Innovator Mary Kathryn Edwards Krauser, known professionally as Mary Kay Edwards passed away after a valiant eight year battle with ovarian cancer. Mary Kay's career spanned forty years in the Intimate Apparel Industry. After graduating with honors from Carlow College in her hometown, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Mary Kay joined Gimbel Brothers as an executive trainee. Her intimate apparel career began when she was appointed Foundations Buyer, a step that would lead to a career in the industry. Following many successful years, in 1970 Mary Kay was recruited to join Rich's in Atlanta as the Foundations Buyer. She spent three years there, and was then offered the position of Vice-President of Merchandising for Van Raalte's Foundations and Daywear Lingerie lines, which began the second phase of her career on manufacturing side of the industry. When Van Raalte was sold, Mary Kay joined Warner's as Vice President of Advertising and Sales Promotion, where she rose to Senior Vice-President of Merchandising, Advertising and Sales Promotion. In 1989, Mary Kay became President of the Vassarette Division of Munsingwear. When Munsingwear sold the division in January, 1990, Mary Kay then joined the Bali Division of Sara Lee Corporation as VicePresident of Merchandising. In a short time she was given the added responsibility for the Marketing Department. In October, 1991, Mary Kay was appointed President of Bali Brands. In May, 1992, Mary Kay was promoted to VicePresident, Merchandising and Design for Sara Lee Foundation, supervising the development of product for the Bali, Hanes Her Way, and Just My Size Brands, and the recently launched Wonderbra Brand. In 1999, Mary Kay was instrumental in the expansion of Barely There Brand and the relaunch of the Lovable Brand. Mary Kay stated, ''The part of my job that I have always enjoyed the most is developing new ideas, and, over the years, interfacing with some of the industry's best designers to create and bring to the marketplace products that meet, and exceed consumers' needs.'' Mary Kay was a member of the Board of Governors of The Underfashion Club, the Intimate Apparel Council (AAMA), the Intimate Apparel Square Club, and the Fashion Group International. In 1992, Mary Kay was the recipient of The Underfashion Club's Femmy Award, the Intimate Apparel Industry's most prestigious honor whose purpose is to ''single out men and women in the industry, who through their leadership and creativity have worked to strengthen both the profitablilty, and the image of the Intimate Apparel market.'' In that year she was also the UJA Intimate Apparel honoree in that year. Mary Kay is survived by her husband Robert S. Krauser, a son Robert Edwards Krauser and a daughter Kathryn Edwards Krauser of Greenwich, Connecticut. The family has asked that in lieu of flowers, donations be sent to either Ovarian Cancer Research at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center or Carlow College in her hometown of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
      