
        GREENE-Jerome L. On May 27, 1999, at age 93. Beloved husband of Dawn Greene. Loving father of Patricia Humphrey and the late Cynthia Sue Greene & stepfather of Christina McInerney. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Joel Humphrey. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 Street, Saturday, May 29, 7-9PM. Interment private. Memorial service at Temple EmanuEl, Fifth Ave. at 65 Street, Tues., June 15, at 4PM. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Montefiore Children's Hospital.
        GREENE-Jerome. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of Jerome L. Greene. A Trustee of the School since 1985, he brought extraordinary leadership to the institution through his exceptional intellect, unique vision, and caring sensitivity to the needs of all members of the Juilliard Community. With a quick wit and a devotion to the performing and visual arts, he enriched us all through his presence and commitment to the School. The Jerome L. Greene Fellowships stand as the first scholarship fund in the history of Juilliard to be created for all three of the performing arts taught at the School. His wise counsel and generosity also made Juilliard's residence hall a reality. We send our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Dawn, and all of his family. He will be profoundly missed by us all. Mary Rodgers Guettel, Chairman Joseph W. Polisi, President
        GREENE-Jerome. The Board and Staff of the Citizens Committee for New York City note with deep sorrow the loss of its beloved director Jerry Greene. A dedicated New Yorker, he believed in the power of the city's people to make life better. His gentle humor and generous spirit will be missed. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Dawn, his daughter Patricia, and his entire family. Oz, Michael and the entire Board and Staff.
        GREENE-Jerome L. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Jerome Greene. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        GREENE-Jerome L. The Columbia Law School deeply mourns the passing of Jerome L. Greene, Class of 1928, a great friend and benefactor whose generosity and wise counsel touched the lives of generations of Columbians.
      