
        HESS-Leon. Peacefully on May 7, 1999 of complications from a blood disorder. Beloved husband of Norma; cherished father of Constance and Dr. Sankey Williams, Marlene Hess and James Zirin, John and Susan Hess; adored grandfather of Elizabeth and Jennifer Williams, Peter and Margaret Friedland, Michael, David and William Hess; dear brother of Betty Gilbert, dear brother-in-law of Ruth Hess, Warren and Rhoda Wilentz and the late Robert and Jacqueline Wilentz, treasured son of the late Ethel and Mores Hess and son-inlaw of the late Lena and David T. Wilentz. In lieu of flowers contributions to your favorite charity would be appreciated. Funeral services will be held at Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 East 87 Street, New York City on May 10, 1999 at 11AM.
        HESS-Leon. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff, management and employees of Lenox Hill Hospital express profound sorrow at the loss of Leon Hess, our devoted friend and benefactor. It is difficult to express our deep sadness at the passing of this exceptional man and esteemed member of the Lenox Hill Hospital family. Mr. Hess' extraordinary philanthropy and his devotion to strengthening our hospital and its future will forever link his name with ours. He believed in Lenox Hill Hospital, our physicians and our role in New York City healthcare. His confidence inspired us all. On countless occasions, we benefited from his vision, his wise counsel and his active support of our work. We are exceedingly greatful for his outstanding gifts to the Hess Center for Interventional Cardiology, The Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma, and, most recently The Leon Hess Medical Research Fund, as well as to many other hospital programs. Put simply, Mr. Hess quietly and effectively enhanced the ability of Lenox Hill Hospital to serve our patients and the community. And for that we shall be forever thankful. We feel fortunate to have known this kind and gentle man whose behind the scenes deeds, which we so often witnessed, reflected his deep and abiding concern for others. We honor the memory of Leon Hess and extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Norma, his daughters Marlene, a Leonx Hill Hospital Trustee, and Connie, his son John, his grandchildren, and to all those whose lives he touched. James S. Marcus, Chairman, Board of Trustees Gladys George, President & CEO Stephen A. Obstbaum, M.D., President, Medical Board
        HESS-Leon. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sadness the death of Leon Hess, a Member of the Association since 1969 and an Advisory Director since 1977. We recall with deep affection his commitment to the Met, including very generous leadership participation in all aspects of our activities, especially the building of the Opera House at Lincoln Center, the Patron Program, the creation of our first endowment fund and the current effort to ensure the Metropolitan Opera's continuing artistic excellence in the new century. We particularly remember Leon's presence at Opening Nights and his special pleasure in attending the Opera from the box he endowed when our company moved to Lincoln Center. His philanthropy leaves a memorable legacy to those institutions who were fortunate to know him as a friend and will be an inspiration for generations to come. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Norma, and his family. James Kinnear, Chairman Bruce Crawford, President Joseph Volpe, General Manager
        HESS-Leon. The entire staff of the Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma at Lenox Hill Hospital expresses its profound sorrow at the passing of Leon Hess, a very special friend. It was Mr. Hess' early and enthusiastic support of our institute and his invaluable wisdom and guidance that helped articulate a vision for an emerging, new medical discipline into a reality. He understood from the very beginning that sports medicine would not only benefit professional athletes such as his New York Jets, but also every weekend athlete. We will always be indebted to Leon Hess for his generosity over the years, his confidence in our work, and above all, his invaluable friendship. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Norma and his children Marlene Hess, Connie Williams and John Hess. James A. Nicholas, M.D., Founding Director Stephen J. Nicholas, M.D., Director Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma
        HESS-Leon. The Directors, Officers and Employees of Amerada Hess Corporation deeply mourn the loss of their beloved friend and colleague Leon Hess. His tireless energy, uncompromising integrity, business acumen, keen vision, quiet generosity, great wisdom and deep commitment to family will continue to guide our lives. From humble beginnings, he built a great American industrial enterprise. He served his country with distinction. He cared deeply for his friends, his business associates and his employees. He was compassionate and considerate of all those whose lives he touched. A true gentleman always, he had the very highest standards of ethical conduct, honesty and personal and business values. He was a man of great moral courage, with a deep religous faith and a passion for the truth. We loved him deeply and will miss him greatly. To his wife, Norma, his daughters, Connie and Marlene, his son John and his grandchildren we express our deepest sympathy. HESS-Leon. It is with great sadness that the Board, Staff, and Friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., and the Lincoln Center Institute mourn the passing of Leon Hess. He was a modest man, a kind man, a philanthropist and a wonderful friend. His involvement and support stretches back to a time when Lincoln Center was only an idea. Our thoughts and prayers go to his wife Norma Hess, a member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors and a member of the Board of Directors of the Lincoln Center Institute. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Norma, the Hess family and to their friends and associates. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. Gladys Chang Hardy, Vice Chairman Scott Noppe-Brandon, Executive Director Lincoln Center Institute
        HESS-Leon. The world has lost one of the great men of the twentieth century, our founder, leader and mentor, Leon Hess. Leon's unflagging support and inspiration, his extraordinary encourgement and faith, kept us on course, always striving for success. Leon taught us to understand and to appreciate the importance of honor, hard work, fair dealing and full commitment, principles he practiced every day of his long and magnificent life. The Leon Hess legacy to the Jets and to the National Football League may be best expressed as loyalty; loyalty to your cause, to your fellow man, to your family and, most importantly, to your principles. Our's, is a better world because of Leon's vast achievements, a world which will benefit from his everlasting contributions on so many signifcant and varied levels. We remember you Leon with love, with respect and with awe, and with the honor you so richly deserve. THE NEW YORK JETS
        HESS-Leon. With the approach of the new millennium, the 20th century has lost one of its greats, a true ''man of all seasons.'' Though quiet and unassuming, his presence was immediately apparent. His endowment of a Professorship in Surgical Oncology at The Mount Sinai Medical Center in both our names was an unforgettable honor. It helped ensure that Mount Sinai will remain in the forefront of the ''war against cancer.'' This was only a small part of his many philanthropies. In addition, his generosity in inviting my wife Gerry and our sons John and Bob to the Jets home games provided pleasure for many years. Leon, you really made a difference. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Norma, always at his side, his son John and daughters Marlene and Connie. Gerry, Dr. Eugene Friedman, John and Bob
        HESS-Leon. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board and Members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City acknowledge the passing of a devoted and generous supporter. Leon Hess was a special friend of our founder, Jack Hausman, and a staunch proponent of the needs of children and adults with cerebral palsyand their families-since 1960. In recent years, employee groups from Amerada Hess, inspired by his generosity, added their own support by donating gifts and toys, hosting holiday parties, and adopting five families who received needed items. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mrs. Hess and to the family. Leo Hausman, President Edward R. Matthews, Exec. Dir Ronald J.H. Napal, Dir. of Dev. United Cerebral Palsy of NYC, Inc.
        HESS-Leon. Columbia University, the Advisory Board, the Faculty and the Administration of the Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University are profoundly saddened by the passing of Leon Hess, whose generosity to our School and his exceptional friendship for our benefactors Joseph and Phyllis Mailman will be forever remembered by all of us at the School. We send our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Norma and to all of his children and grandchildren. George Rupp, Ph.D. President, Columbia University Herbert Pardes, M.D. Vice President, Health Sciences Allan Rosenfield, M.D. Dean, Mailman School of Public Health
        HESS-Leon. He never said no. Every Sunday, my father and I were given tickets to watch his team, the New York Jets. When I asked for an interview with QB Glenn Foley for my school's professional sports publication, my request was granted. I felt like there wasn't anything he wouldn't give. This very special man was Mr. Hess. He was able to do something that very few have achieved: bring my father and me closer together. For this, and many other reasons, I would like to say a very special thanks to this very special man, indeed. I will miss him with the same passion that I yell ''Go Jets!'' Stuart Schultz
        HESS-Leon. The entire team of the Hess Center for Interventional Cardiology at Lenox Hill Hospital is deeply saddened by the death of Leon Hess, whose pivotal support to our program has made a significant difference in the lives of many thousands of individuals and enabled us to sustain a level of medical excellence in cardiac care. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Jeffrey W. Moses, M.D., Chief Hess Center for Interventional Cardiology
        HESS-Leon. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the death of the Theater's very good friend, Leon Hess, and extend their sympathy and condolences to Norma and the entire family. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer
        HESS-Leon. The members of the Cardiology Section of Lenox Hill Hospital regret the passing of our dear friend and benefactor Leon Hess. We extend our sincere sympathy to Mrs. Norma Hess and the entire family. He will be greatly missed. Nicholas DePasquale, MD, Chief, Cardiology. Neil Coplan, MD, Associate Chief, Cardiology. Mary Ann MacKenzie, RN, Administrator, Cardiology
        HESS-Leon. The Board of Directors and members of the Ocean Beach Club mark with sadness the loss of dear friend and longtime member Leon Hess. We are proud to have known this giant of industry, devoted sportsman, husband, father and grandfather. Our deep condolences go out to his family. Sandy Paskin, President Laurie Lowenstein, Secretary
        HESS-Leon. The Board of Directors of the American Theatre Wing send their deepest sympathy to Board member, Marlene Hess, on the sad loss of her father, Leon. Our sympathy too, to Norma and the family. Roy A. Somylo, President Mrs. John Stevenson Chairman of the Board
        HESS-Leon. Remembering and celebrating the life of Leon Hess, quintessential gentleman and most loved friend, we recall with tender thoughts his quiet humor, soaring intelligence, unbridled strength, abiding generosity and that unforgettable grin. The Family of Joseph L. Mailman
        HESS-Leon. The Shareholders, the Board of Directors, and Wallack Management Company, Inc., extend their condolences to the family of Leon Hess. We are all saddened by his loss.
        HESS-Leon. We have all lost a special friend and generous man. Norma and the Hess family have my deepest sympathy. Leo Hausman
      