
        GREENE-Jerome. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of Jerome L. Greene. A Trustee of the School since 1985, he brought extraordinary leadership to the institution through his exceptional intellect, unique vision, and caring sensitivity to the needs of all members of the Juilliard Community. With a quick wit and a devotion to the performing and visual arts, he enriched us all through his presence and commitment to the School. The Jerome L. Greene Fellowships stand as the first scholarship fund in the history of Juilliard to be created for all three of the performing arts taught at the School. His wise counsel and generosity also made Juilliard's residence hall a reality. We send our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Dawn, and all of his family. He will be profoundly missed by us all. Mary Rodgers Guettel, Chairman Joseph W. Polisi, President
        GREENE-Jerome L. The Board, staff and the entire Lincoln Center family deeply mourn the death of our cherished friend and supporter, Jerome Greene. Jerry was a longtime member of Lincoln Center's Board of Directors and Emeriti Council, and provided guidance and vision for all our activities for many years. He cared about Linconln Center and its programs deeply, especially the Mostly Mozart Festival. His leadership and extraordinary generosity have ensured Mostly Mozart continuity for more than a decade and through his generosity he has left a legacy for hundreds of thousands of music lovers who have enjoyed and continue to enjoy this music series. We will miss his wisdom, warmth, integrity and his loyal friendship. Our heartfelt condolences to Dawn and their entire family. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President
        GREENE-Jerome L. Once in a great while there comes along a person, who in life makes an indelible impression upon others by their very being...that their memory will likely never fade. Jerome L. Greene was one of those rare individuals. The Carlyle has long been a part of his life, and he has been so very important to this New York institution. We cherish most and value greatest that we were privileged to know, love and be influenced by him, for he was a very special man. Dan Camp and the Staff of The Carlyle
        GREENE-Jerome L. The firm of Richards & O'Neil, LLP, expresses its sadness on the passing of its longtime friend and client, Jerome L. Greene. Jerry was a mentor to several of our partners. We admired his legal and business acumen, his dynamic personality and his generous nature. His many charitable endeavors on behalf of educational, medical and cultural organizations will leave a lasting legacy. We mourn his loss and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Dawn and his family.
        GREENE-Jerome L. With condolences to Dawn and her family. We bid a sad farewell to our good friend and partner, Jerome L. Greene. Liliane and Norman Peck
        GREENE-Jerome L. The partners and professionals of Blackacre Capital Management, LLC extend their deep condolences to the family of Jerome L. Greene.
      