
        PETERS-Alton E. Beloved husband of Elizabeth, father of Emily and Rachel and grandfather of Madeleine and Isobel Fletcher. The funeral service will be held at St. Thomas Church, 5th Avenue at 53rd Street, at 11AM on Thursday, June 3. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to The Metropolitan Opera Guild or the Phillips Exeter Academy Library.
        PETERS-Alton E. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sorrow the death of Alton E. Peters, a devoted friend of our company and a Director of The Metropolitan Opera Association for 32 years, one of the longest and most distinguished records of Board service in our history. Alton Peters joined the Board in 1967, serving as Secretary of the Association from 1973 through 1985, Vice President from 1985 through 1992 and as Chairman of the Executive Committee since 1992. We recall with deep affection his boundless joy in the world of opera, particularly his intense commitment to the Metropolitan Opera. In this connection, we would like to take special note of Alton's courage during his recent illness where his determination to maintain his Met schedule with his characteristic sense of humor, including his special pleasure in participating in Met family occasions, was an inspiration to all. Our Board valued Alton's knowledge of the opera literature and the artists of the opera world and his thoughtful counsel to our directors and management, often during periods of profound institutional and financial challenges. As President of the Metropolitan Opera Guild since 1986, Alton led the Guild's extraordinary support for the Metropolitan Opera through its membership program, its publications and its education programs to build audiences for opera. A longtime Patron of the Metropolitan Opera, Alton Peters also generously participated in the creation of the Metropolitan Opera's first endowment fund, the Silver Anniversary Fund and the current effort to increase the Met's endowment fund for the new century. His record of service leaves a memorable legacy to future generations of opera audiences. Most of all, we feel privileged to have known him as a very dear friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Elizabeth and his daughters Emily and Rachel. Mrs. Gilbert W. Humphrey, Chairman Emeritus Bruce Crawford, Honorary Chairman James W. Kinnear, Chairman of the Board Paul M. Montrone, President
        PETERS-Alton E. The Metropolitan Opera Association deeply mourns the untimely death of Alton E. Peters, a lifelong friend of our company and a member of the Met family for 32 years. Alton became a director of the Association in 1967, and showed his stalwart commitment to its aims and development for over three decades in many important positions on our board, before becoming chairman of our executive committee in 1992. He was a wellknown figure around the opera house, and his wise counsel, deep knowledge, and untiring enthusiasm were invaluable in the crucial years which followed the Metropolitan's move to its new home at Lincoln Center. President of the Metropolitan Opera Guild since 1986, he loved opera passionately, and rejoiced in telling how he had first discovered it by listening to the Texaco-Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts as a young man. He was deeply committed to the Guild's aims of supporting the Metropolitan Opera and broadening opera audiences through essential programs, notably those aimed at young people. A man of great optimism, infinite personal charm, and lively wit, he earned the respect and affection of all those members of our company who had the privilege of experiencing his warmth and unfailingly courteous sense of human relationships. All of us in our company have lost a very dear, generous, and valuable friend, and he will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to his wife, Elizabeth, and his daughters, Emily and Rachel. Joseph Volpe, General Manager James Levine, Artistic Director
        PETERS-Alton E. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts mourn the passing of Board member Alton E. Peters. His warmth, his integrity, his enthusiasm for the Metropolitan Opera and all of Lincoln Center were an inspiration to us all. A man of great dignity, courage, grace, and accomplishment he played many important roles at Lincoln Center: as an invaluable member of our Board of Directors; as a member of the New Building Campaign Leadership Committee; as a member of the General Services Committee; as a member of the Nominating and Board Review Committee; and as a member of the Committee for the 21st Century. We will miss his wise counsel and his warm friendship. We extend our love and sympathy to Elizabeth and their daughters, Emily and Rachel. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        PETERS-Alton. New York City Opera mourns the loss of a great friend and cultural leader whose deep enthusiasms have made New York a more vibrant place for opera, music, dance and theater. At City Opera, he was a member of our General Director's Council and will always be remembered as the best kind of friend-advocate and generous supporter. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Elizabeth and the entire family. New York City Opera Board of Directors Paul Kellogg General and Artistic Director Sherwin M. Goldman Executive Producer
        PETERS-Alton E. The Board and Staff of The Academy of American Poets mourn, with deep sadness, the untimely passing of our beloved Treasurer, Alton E. Peters. Alton guided the Academy with devoted wisdom and humor as board member, Treasurer and friend since 1988, and his straightforwardness, generosity and uncommon dedication to the mission of the the Academy were much appreciated and admired by all his colleagues. His friendship was steadfast; he will be very greatly missed. Our profound sympathy to his wife Elizabeth and his daughters Emily and Rachel.
        PETERS-Alton E. The Board and staff of The Animal Medical Center mourn the untimely passing of devoted trustee and exceptional friend, Alton E. Peters. His quiet, steadfast work on behalf of companion animals and veterinary education, as well as his commitment to the cultural life of New York City, were revered by all who knew him. Our condolences to his family. Cynthia Phipps First Vice President Board of Trustees Guy Pidgeon, DVM President and CEO
        PETERS-Alton E. The Irving Berlin Music Company has lost a leader, a visionary, and a friend. Alton was a constant source of wisdom whose clear thinking has helped perpetuate the legacy of Irving Berlin. Insightful and passionate about everything he did, he was always there for a quick answer or an important meeting on any subject. We will miss being able to pick up the phone and hear that cheerful voice. His spirit will live on, and we will always remain grateful to him. The Irving Berlin Music Company
        PETERS-Alton E. Our respected Chairman for nearly twenty years, the Board of Goodwill Industries of Greater New York mourns the passing of a great friend and tireless supporter. Through his work with Goodwill, each year Alton E. Peters helped thousands of less fortunate New Yorkers build betters lives through the dignity of employment. He was a great champion of our cause. His charm, style and wit, along with his warmth and friendship, will be deeply missed by all in his Goodwill family.
        PETERS-Alton. The family of Mary Ellin and Marvin Barrett grieve for the loss of their beloved brother-in-law and uncle whose advice and affection have been a support to us for many years. We shall sorely miss his intelligent, witty and loving presence and join his wife our dear sister and aunt Elizabeth and his daughters Emily and Rachel in mourning him.
        PETERS-Alton E. We are devastated by the death of our beloved friend. His graceful and generous counsel, his irreverent sense of humor, and his extraordinary wisdom will be missed by us all. Our deepest sympathies are with Elizabeth, Emily, and Rachel. Mary Rodgers Guettel Bill Hammerstein Ted Chapin
        PETERS-Alton E. Ronald Selsman and the firm of Marcum & Kliegman LLP extend our sincerest condolences to the family of Alton Peters. He was a great friend as well as a business associate. His passing is a true loss to us all. Ronald H. Selsman Marcum & Kliegman LLP
        PETERS-Alton E. The Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization mourns the death of Alton Peters. He was instrumental in bringing about our felicitous relationship with the Irving Berlin family and remained a champion of that collaboration through the years. We shall miss him. The Rodgers & Hammerstein Org.
        PETERS-Alton. Edouard and Linda Emmet, their children Caroline, Ellen and Edward grieve the loss of Alton, their beloved brother-inlaw and cherished uncle. We shall miss his warmth and joyfulness and his devotion to our family. All our thoughts at this time go to Elizabeth, Emily and Rachel.
        PETERS-Alton E. The members and staff of the Firm of Kelley Drye & Warren mourn the passing of our friend and partner of 16 years. His energy and good humor will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Elizabeth, and to his daughters, Emily and Rachel.
        PETERS-Alton E. The Board of Directors of AmSong, Inc., mourns the passing of Alton Peters, husband of AmSong Board Member Elizabeth Peters. We will miss his intelligence and insightful participation in AmSong matters. Our deepest sympathy to his family.
      