
        RAISLER-Dolly Wolfson. The adored wife of Robert K. Raisler, died peacefully on June 17, at her home in New York, surrounded by her loving family. She was the daughter of the late Solomon and Nechi Wolfson of Glasgow, Scotland, beloved sister of Rose Martin and Bebe Steinberg of London, and of the late Sam Wolfson, Sir Isaac Wolfson, Charles Wolfson, Jeannie Williams, Edith Hyman, Eva Gerber, Esther Levy, and Bette Shapiro. Dolly was a loving and devoted wife, a much beloved mother and sister, doting grandmother and aunt, and loyal friend. Her love, wisdom, generosity and encouragement enriched the lives of everyone. Dolly is mourned by her cherished husband of 42 years, Robert, her children Gordon, Steven and Lynn, her grandsons, Michael, Anthony and Joe, and by Joe's fiancee, Jordana Matthews. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. (at 81 Street), on Monday June 21, 1999, at 11:30 AM. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to the American Cancer Society.
        RAISLER-Dolly. With great sadness we mourn the loss of the beloved aunt, and friend, of Adele, great-aunt of Brian, Neil and Valerie Suslak, and Pamela Ferraioli and great-great-aunt of Lauren. Dolly's warmth and vivacity, thoughtfulness and generosity enhanced all our lives. Her abiding love and caring concern for her large family, many friends and numerous causes, as well as her enormous inner strength, is an inspiration to us all. Our love and warmest sympathy to Bob, Gordon, Steven and Lynn, Joe and Jordana, Anthony and Michael. She will be forever in our hearts. Adele Suslak
        RAISLER-Dolly. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member and expresses heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President
        RAISLER-Dolly. To our dear aunt Dolly whose warmth and kindness and gracefulness touched all our lives with love. Joan, Stuart, Scott, Adam, David, Evan, Max, Gerald, Barbara, Bryman, Allen & Susan
        RAISLER-Dolly. We will always love and remember you. Alice and Saul Sumergrade
      