
        ALPERT-Herman S., MD. On June 10, 1999. Distinguished psychiatrist in private practice since 1947. Member of the attending and teaching staff of Mt. Sinai Hospital and School of Medicine. Beloved husband of Harriet and the late Eileen. Loving father of Cheryl Alpert Sofer, Jeffrey Alpert, Marjorie Lesnik Karp and Peter Lesnik. Cherished grandfather and greatgrandfather. Brother of Alma Goodsite of Tucson, Arizona Services Sunday 10 A.M. at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue. Visiting hours Saturday 79 P.M. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Department of Psychiatry of Mount Sinai Hospital or Temple Shaaray Tefila.
        ALPERT-Herman S., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our beloved colleague and dedicated member of the Department of Psychiatry for over 50 years. Dr. Alpert was a founding member of the Division of Group Psychotherapy and had a distinguished career in the army as a psychiatrist in World War II. He continued to play a major role in the area of Group Therapy and was also actively involved in teaching residents and students at Mount Sinai. He will best be remembered for his thoughtfulness, sense of humor and great spirit. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Stanley Tuhrim, M.D., President Terry Weill, M.D., Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
        ALPERT-Herman S., MD. The Department of Psychiatry at Mount Sinai School of Medicine/ Mount Sinai-NYU Health mourns the passing of Herman S. Alpert. A distinguished member of our department for over fifty years, Dr. Alpert will be remembered with fondness and respect for his psychotherapy initiatives, his teaching, and dedication to the department. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife and family. Kenneth L. Davis, MD, Chairman The Faculty and Staff of the Department of Psychiatry
        ALPERT-Herman S., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, Treasurer
      