
        PERSHING-Colonel John W. On June 23, 1999, after a courageous battle with vascular disease. Beloved husband of Sandra Sinclair Pershing. Devoted stepfather of Alyson Lloyd Taylor, and Robin M. Lloyd. Cherished grandfather of Hollis C. Taylor. A private investor in civilian life, he was a member of The Veteran Corps of Artillery, State of New York, and The Society of Cincinnati. Following service as an enlisted man in The United States Marine Corps, he was a distinguished ROTC Military Graduate from Boston University and Commissioned in The United States Army, retiring after 35 years of service in 1998. A graduate of The Army War College, he had served in Special Forces, on the Staff of the Secretary of Defense and as a Special Assistant to The Chief of Staff of the United States Army. He was the grandson of General of the Armies, John J. Pershing, Commander of The American Expeditionary Forces in World War I. His brother, Richard W. Pershing, was killed in action during The Vietnam War. Service Monday June 28, 1999, 11:30 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, New York City. Interment will be private at Arlington National Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to The ROTC Scholarship Fund at Boston University.
        PERSHING-John Warren, Col. The Soldiers', Sailors', Marines' and Airmen's Club deeply regrets the passing of their esteemed Board Member and Honoree after a long and gallant firefight against insurmountable odds. Grandson of our Founder, General of the Armies John J. Pershing, Jack always took an active interest in the Club-tailor-made as it was for him in furthering a veritable lifetime of concern and support for members of our Armed Forces. Jack Pershing's generosity with regard to veterans, retirees and their families was ever boundless. The Members and Officers of the Soldiers', Sailors', Marines' and Airmen's Club hail, salute and wish him Godspeed on this his last most important tour of duty. Ivan Obolensky, President
        PERSHING-John W., Holland Lodge #
      