
        FISHER-Zachary. The Board of Directors of the Police Athletic League mourn the loss of Zachary Fisher, a dear friend and outstanding human being whose magnificient generosity meant so much to the 65,000 boys and girls we serve. We extend our condolences to our fellow Director, Larry Fisher, who has been a long-time supporter of PAL, and to the members of the Fisher family. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chairman of the Board Police Athletic League
        FISHER-Zachary. Lenox Hill Hospital and its Nicholas Institute of Sports Medicine and Athletic Trauma (NISMAT) express profound sorrow at the passing of Zachary Fisher, a good friend and generous benefactor. Over the years, we have valued his wise and thoughtful counsel and his enthusiastic support of NISMAT's work. We are honored to have known this truly exceptional man. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Elizabeth, and his entire family. Gladys George, President and CEO Lenox Hill Hospital James A. Nicholas, MD, Founding Director, NISMAT Stephen J. Nicholas, MD, Director, NISMAT
        FISHER-Zachary. The Board of Governors and members of the City Athletic Club record with sorrow the passing of Zachary Fisher. We are grateful for his wonderful generosity and boundless support of the club. He will be remembered as a highly esteemed presence among us. We would like to extend our deepest sympathies to his brother and fellow member, Larry Fisher, and to their family. City Athletic Club Board of Governors
        FISHER-Zachary. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors wish to express our heartfelt sympathy on the passing of our Benefactor, Zachary Fisher. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire family. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman, Co-Chairmen Herman S. Sandler, President Albert Schussler, Pres. Emeritus
        FISHER-Zachary. The Officers, Directors and Staff of the USO of Metropolitan New York note with deep sorrow the passing of Zachary Fisher, a good and dedicated friend to the USO. We extend to his wife Elizabeth and his family our deepest sympathy. Oliver M. Mendell, Chairman Myron J. Berman, President
      