
        MERNS-Adrienne Iris. On June 21, 1999. Leaves her beloveds-Patrick and daughter Chloe. Sweet daughter of Sy Syms and Ruth Merns, stepdaughter of Lynn Syms. Adored sister of Marcy Syms Merns, Laura, Robert and Richard. Adrienne graduated from Marymount College and worked as a buyer at Syms Corp before starting a family. Services are private. Contributions can be made in Adrienne's memory to Amnesty International, c/o Syms Advertising, One Syms Way, Secaucus, NJ 07094.
        MERNS-Adrienne Iris. The Yeshiva University family expresses profound sorrow on the untimely passing of the beloved daughter of Sy Syms and Ruth Merns, and sister of Marcy, Laura, Robert, and Richard. Dear friends of the University, Adrienne's parents have played leadership roles as YU Benefactors. Sy Syms is vice chairman of the YU Board of Trustees, an honorary alumnus, and eponym of our Sy Syms School of Business, of which he is a board member. Marcy Syms, also a Syms board member, established the Marcy Syms Scholarship there. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Josh S. Weston, Chairman SSSB Board of Directors Dr. Harold Nierenberg, Dean SSSB
        MERNS-Adrienne. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the untimely passing of the beloved daughter of our dear friend and Benefactor, Ruth Merns, who established the Ruth Merns Chair in Biochemistry at our medical school. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Ruth and the entire family on their tragic loss. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        MERNS-Adrienne Iris. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff extend our heartfelt condolences to Sy Syms, the husband of our esteemed Board member Lynn, on the passing of his daughter Adrienne. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire family. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman, Co-Chairmen Herman S. Sandler, President Albert Schussler, Pres. Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Director
        MERNS-Adrienne. Bertram and Herbert Podell and the partners of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield express their deep sorrow on the untimely passing of Adrienne, beloved daughter of our dear friend, Sy Syms. We extend our most heartfelt sympathy to Adrienne and Sy's devoted family. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
        MERNS-Adrienne. We at Re'uth are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of the beloved daughter of Sy Syms, who together with his wife Lynn, generously support our Homes for the Aged in Israel. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Ursula Merkin, Chair Rosa Strygler, President
        MERNS-Adrienne. The passing of the beloved daughter of Sy Syms, a strong supporter of the Parkinson's Unity Walk, fills us with great sadness for a life taken much too soon. We understand how Sy and Lynn must feel at this tragic moment. The Parkinson's Unity Walk
        MERNS-Adrienne. Stanley Blacker Inc. and all its associates are deeply saddened by the passing of Adrienne Merns. A lovely humanbeing, her sparkle, vitality, and good cheer will be sorely missed by those who knew her.
      