
        FISHER-Zachary. The partners of Fisher Brothers mourn the passing of our founder and partner Zachary Fisher and express our deepest condolences to his wife, Elizabeth, and the entire Fisher family. Zachary was a proud American, a leading real estate developer and a wonderful person. He helped to build New York City's skyline while devoting much of his life to the men and women in the U.S. Armed Forces. A recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, Zachary founded the Intrepid Sea Air Space Museum; the Fisher House Program, which provides lodging for families of hospitalized military personnel; and the Fisher Armed Services Foundation, which makes contributions to military families who lose loved ones in tragic circumstances. Zachary also established the Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research at Rockefeller University. He touched and enriched many lives and will be sorely missed. A private memorial will be held aboard the Intrepid on today, June 7. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Intrepid Museum Foundation, 46th Street at 12th Avenue, New York City 10036. Fisher Brothers Larry Fisher Richard L. Fisher M. Anthony Fisher Arnold Fisher Kenneth Fisher Steven Fisher
        FISHER-Zachary. The Partners of Cantor Fitzgerald mourn the passing of our dear friend Zachary Fisher, a true philanthropist and a great American whose many years of dedicated service to our country touched the lives of countless individuals. His visionary leadership in support of the men and women of the U.S. Armed Forces will be an inspiration to future generations. His leadership in the fields of scientific research, education and the arts will be sorely missed. We will miss his warm friendship and will cherish the memory of having known him. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Elizabeth, his brother, his sister, his son, and the entire Fisher family. Allison and Howard Lutnick B.A. and Bud Flanagan Kent L. Karosen
        FISHER-Zachary. The Board of Governors and members of the City Athletic Club record with sorrow the passing of Zachary Fisher. We are grateful for his wonderful generosity and boundless support of the club. He will be remembered as a highly esteemed presence among us. We would like to extend our deepest sympathies to his brother and fellow member, Larry Fisher, and to their family. Michael Todres, President
        FISHER - Zachary. Saturday's Times ran not less than eleven tributes to my friend Zachary Fisher. All but one were from prestigious organizations to whom he gave counsel, money and leadership, and they were all well earned by him. This tribute is to the personal Zachary Fisher, the friend of a lifetime. My deepest sympathy to Elizabeth and to Larry. Lew Lubitz
        FISHER-Zachary. The Association for a Better New York salutes its longstanding member. Our city and country will miss his intrepid leadership. We extend our deepest sympathy to the Fisher family. Lewis Rudin, Chairman
      