
        TRUMP-Fred C. Husband of Mary MacLeod Trump. Father of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump, Jr. Grandfather of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump, III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Trump, Jr., Christopher Trump, Ivanka Trump, Eric Trump and Tiffany Trump. Great grandfather of Andrea Trump, Cristopher Trump and Robert Desmond. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday and Monday, 3-5:00 and 7-9:00 PM. Services at Marble Collegiate Church, Fifth Ave. at 29 St., Tuesday, 11:00 AM. Interment private. Contributions in memory of Fred C. Trump may be made to the Trump Pavilion at Jamaica Hospital, 90-28 Van Wyck Expressway, Jamaica, New York 11418 or the Long Island Jewish Medical Center, 270-05 76th Avenue, New Hyde Park, New York 11040.
        TRUMP-Fred. A driving, dynamic force has left us with the death of a Life Member of our Association, Fred Trump. Acknowledged to be one of those rare breeds of men: a visionary, yet practical businessman whose word was his bond. His likeness cannot be replaced. Our sympathies to his sons Robert and Donald and daughters Elizabeth and Maryanne. Our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Mary. Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York Arnold Sollar, Michael Kerr Co-Chairmen Jerome Belson, President
        TRUMP-Fred C. Recognizing the master builder and most generous person, we pay tribute to Fred C. Trump and send our sympathies to Mrs. Mary Trump and to his children, Maryanne, Barry, Elizabeth, Donald, Robert, and the Trump family. Costas Kondylis & Associates, Architects
        TRUMP-Fred C. The Board of Trustees of The Kew-Forest School extends its deepest sympathies to the family of Fred C. Trump who was our distinguished fellow trustee for many years. We shall always remember his wise counsel, generous spirit and warm humanity.
        TRUMP-Fred C. Dear Robert and Blaine, the Board of Directors and staff of God's Love We Deliver extend our deepest sympathies for your family's loss. Our best wishes are with you during this very difficult time. Richard E. Feldman, Esq., Chair, Board of Director
        TRUMP-Fred C. Deepest sympathies and condolences to Donald Trump and the entire Trump family on the passing of Fred C. Trump. John L. Tishman, Chairman Joseph J. Simone, President Thomas Kaufman, Executive VP Richard Levy, Senior VP
        TRUMP-Fred C. To Mary, Maryanne, Elizabeth, Robert and my friend Donald, all of us wish to express our deepest sympathies to you and your family on the loss of Fred, a truly great man. Peter, Mary, Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow
        TRUMP-Fred C. The management and staff of The Miss Universe Organization express their deepest sympathy at the passing of Fred C. Trump and extend their most heartfelt condolences to Donald J. Trump and the entire Trump family.
        TRUMP-Fred C. A dear friend whom I admired and respected with love for his many good deeds and thoughtful counsel. To Mary, his children, and the entire Trump family my sympathy and heartfelt condolences. Louise M. Sunshine
        TRUMP-Fred. We mourn the loss of Fred Trump, our very first and steadfast client and friend for over 50 years. Our deepest sympathy to Donald and heartfelt condolences to the Trump family. Lindenbaum & Young Sidney D. and Alan H. Young
        TRUMP-Fred C. Annie Veltri and the staff of Trump Management Group offer their deepest condolences to Donald J. Trump and family on the passing of Fred C. Trump.
      