
        LUDWIG-Arthur W., Dr. The faculty members of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Mount Sinai Hospital, a division of Mount Sinai N.Y.U. Health, mourn the loss of our dear colleague, Dr. Arthur W. Ludwig. After graduating from Columbia College and N.Y.U. School of Medicine, Dr. Ludwig came to Mount Sinai Hospital as an intern and subsequently spent his entire professional career here, interrupted only by his service in the U.S. Navy in World War II. He returned to Mount Sinai as an Assistant Resident in Medicine and then took a Fellowship in Pathology. In his earlier years at Mount Sinai, he was an integral part of the Endocrine Division, active both in Clinical endocrinology as well as in research on the effects of hormones on connective tissue. He was a devoted teacher and beloved by his patients. He was a warm, brilliant, cultured, and gracious physician with a ready smile and wit, always anxious to be of service. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Laura and to his children, Andrew, Lisa, and Amy.
        LUDWIG-Arthur W., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. A member of the Mount Sinai family for over fifty years, Dr. Ludwig distinguished himself as teacher and clinician. Devoted to his patients whom he cared for with expertise and compassion and a conscientious mentor who touched the lives of generations of young students and physicians, he was respected by his peers and loved by his patients. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, Treasurer
        LUDWIG-Arthur W., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our beloved colleague. Dr. Ludwig was an active member of our Medical Staff for over fifty years and served the institution and its patients as a member of the Department of Medicine, specializing in Internal Medicine and Endocrinology. He will be fondly remembered for his eclectic interest, his fine skills as a practitioner, and for his warmth, compassion, and dedication. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Stanley Tuhrim, M.D., President Terry Weill, M.D., Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
      