
        GREENE-Jerome L. The President, the Board of Trustees and entire Montefiore Medical Center community deeply mourn the death of our dear friend and supporter, Jerome L. Greene. A devoted and active trustee since 1972, he had an extraordinary impact on the quality of health and life of thousands of Montefiore patients and residents of the Bronx and Westchester. Combining his skills as a lawyer with his belief in Montefiore as an instrument of social responsibility, he led the medical center in the founding, 18 years ago, of the Mosholu Preservation Corporation, a nonprofit community development support corporation that has, with his guidance, saved housing, revitalized neighborhoods and created innovative projects such as moderate income housing, a community newspaper that serves 15,000 households, the first and only NYC business improvement district sponsored under the auspices of an academic institution, a vast program of graffiti removal and a youth job training program-all of which have played a role in the Bronx's nationally recognized resurgence. He believed in the crucial role of academic medical centers such as Montefiore in advancing the health of communities through research, education and provision of high-quality care, and with his beloved wife, Dawn, he helped Montefiore create the Jerome L. and Dawn Greene Medical Arts Pavilion, a state-of-the-art building that opened in 1997 offering a full range of general and specialty services in an ambulatory care setting. More recently, he and his wife have been generous benefactors of The Children's Hospital at Montefiore, scheduled to open in 2001. In 1991, at its annual Celebrate Montefiore dinner dance, the medical center honored this remarkable man of vision and commitment for his exemplary stewardship. This year, Montefiore nominated him for the United Hospital Fund's 1999 Distinguished Community Service Award. The medical center has lost one of its greatest friends. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his loving wife, Dawn, and their entire family. Spencer Foreman, MD, President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        GREENE-Jerome L. The Board, staff and the entire Lincoln Center family deeply mourn the death of our cherished friend and supporter, Jerome Greene. Jerry was a longtime member of Lincoln Center's Board of Directors and Emeriti Council, and provided guidance and vision for all our activities for many years. He cared about Linconln Center and its programs deeply, especially the Mostly Mozart Festival. His leadership and extraordinary generosity have ensured Mostly Mozart continuity for more than a decade and through his generosity he has left a legacy for hundreds of thousands of music lovers who have enjoyed and continue to enjoy this music series. We will miss his wisdom, warmth, integrity and his loyal friendship. Our heartfelt condolences to Dawn and their entire family. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President
        GREENE-Jerome L. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater convey their sorrow and condolences to Dawn and the children upon the sad death of Jerome. Jerry was an advocate of our theater and favored it with his benefactions. An inveterate theatergoer, he praised the work he admired and was forgiving of the plays he didn't care for. He was generous to the arts and education in New York and his genial presence will be missed at Lincoln Center. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John S. Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Exec Producer
        GREENE-Jerome L. Once in a great while there comes along a person, who in life makes an indelible impression upon others by their very being...that their memory will likely never fade. Jerome L. Greene was one of those rare individuals. The Carlyle has long been a part of his life, and he has been so very important to this New York institution. We cherish most and value greatest that we were privileged to know, love and be influenced by him, for he was a very special man. Dan Camp and the Staff of The Carlyle
        GREENE-Jerome L. The officers and leadership of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of a valued friend and longtime supporter, Jerome L. Greene. His generosity to the mission of UJA-Federation, as well as his extraordinary commitment to the arts, will long be remembered. To his wife, Dawn, and to his entire family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        GREENE-Jerome L. With condolences to Dawn and her family. We bid a sad farewell to our good friend and partner, Jerome L. Greene. Liliane and Norman Peck
      