
        FISHER-Zachary. The partners of Fisher Brothers mourn the passing of our founder and partner Zachary Fisher and express our deepest condolences to his wife, Elizabeth, and the entire Fisher family. Zachary was a proud American, a leading real estate developer and a wonderful person. He helped to build New York City's skyline while devoting much of his life to the men and women in the U.S. Armed Forces. A recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, Zachary founded the Intrepid Sea Air Space Museum; the Fisher House Program, which provides lodging for families of hospitalized military personnel; and the Fisher Armed Services Foundation, which makes contributions to military families who lose loved ones in tragic circumstances. Zachary also established the Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research at Rockefeller University. He touched and enriched many lives and will be sorely missed. A private memorial will be held aboard the Intrepid on Monday, June 7. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Intrepid Museum Foundation, 46th Street at 12th Avenue, New York City 10036. Fisher Brothers Larry Fisher Richard L. Fisher M. Anthony Fisher Arnold Fisher Kenneth Fisher Steven Fisher
        FISHER-Zachary. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Rockefeller University are deeply saddened by the passing of our cherished friend, Zachary Fisher, a true giant in the worlds of real estate and philanthropy. His great generosity and impassioned commitment led to the creation of the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research at Rockefeller. We join all New Yorkers in saluting the enormous accomplishments of his long life, from enhancing the landscape of our City, to furthering biomedical research, to preserving our nation's history through his beloved Intrepid Museum. We will greatly miss him. Our deepest condolences are sent to his wife, Elizabeth, and the entire Fisher family. Arnold J. Levine, President Torsten N. Wiesel, President Emeritus Richard B. Fisher, Chairman David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman The Rockefeller University
        FISHER-Zachary. The scientists and staff of the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research wish to express their heartfelt sorrow over the death of Zachary Fisher, whose passion for finding an answer to Alzheimer's is a source of great inspiration to us all. He was a true partner in our efforts to unravel the mysteries of this devastating disease. His encouragement, support, and enormously effective advocacy have benefitted all scientists working at the frontiers of aging research. We are proud to bear the name of this great man, and we will seek to honor his memory through our work. Paul Greengard, Vincent Astor Professor and Director, Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research The Rockefeller University
        FISHER-Zachary. The Board and Staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the passing of Zachary Fisher, our friend and colleague on the Board of Trustees. Zachary's energy in shaping New York City's physical environment was matched only by his personal gallantry and magnificent philanthropy to so many institutions, and we at Carnegie Hall feel fortunate to have worked with him. Our deep sympathy goes to Elizabeth and the family. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weill, Chairman
        FISHER-Zachary. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Zachary Fisher on June 4, 1999. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Monday, June 7th, at 11 AM on the Intrepid. To RSVP, call 212-957-7020. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec Director
        FISHER-Zachary. Battle Fowler mourns the passing of Zachary Fisher, our good friend and client. An entrepreneur, philanthropist and leader, he touched the lives of countless individuals and organizations. He gave unselfishly of his time, talent and resources for the benefit of those in the military. His generosity, leadership and warmhearted spirit will be missed. We offer our condolences to his wife, Elizabeth, and the Fisher family.
        FISHER-Zachary. The Board of Governors and Members of the Boca Rio Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Zachary Fisher, beloved husband of Elizabeth. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Boca Rio Golf Club Dr. Ira J. Gelb, President
        FISHER-Zachary. The Board of Governors and Members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Zachary Fisher. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Elizabeth, and his entire family. Len Shendell, President Judith Tarter, Secretary
        FISHER-Zachary. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member, Zachary Fisher. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Elizabeth, to his brother Larry, to his children and other members of his family. Samuel G. Weinberg, President
        FISHER-Zachary. The Real Estate Board of New York mourns the passing of Zachary Fisher, a shaper of our city's splendid skyline and esteemed colleague and a distinguished public benefactor. We extend our sympathy to the Fisher family. Bernard H. Mendik, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        FISHER-Zachary. It has been our privilege, for 50 years, to call Zachary our dearest and best friend. He was a saint in the true meaning of the word. His caring, exceptional. We shall miss him every day. Peg and Sy Candee
      