
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of our longtime friend, a man of great personal dignity, who is highly respected in the world of finance and Jewish communal affairs. With his wife, Dina, he was a Guardian of Yeshiva University. Through his creative vision and concern for the future of Jewish scholarship, he established the Recanati Courses in Kabbalah at Yeshiva University and at its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary he established the Raphael and Dina Recanati Israel Exchange Student Fellowship. Heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Dina, and to his sons, Oudi and Michael, and his grandchildren. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Min Hashamayim Tenuhamu! Dr. Norman Lamm, President, Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman, Board of Trustees, Yeshiva University
        RECANATI-Raphael. The officers and leadership of UJA-Federation note with sadness the passing of Raphael Recanati. He was a generous supporter of UJA-Federation's Annual Campaign, as well as to many significant causes in Israel. His extraordinary generosity to Beth Israel Medical Center, a UJA beneficiary, has enabled that institution to offer advanced treatments in cardiology, pulmonary medicine, nephrology and liver research. He has left a rich legacy that will improve the quality of life for thousands of people for many years to come. To his wife, Dina, his sons, Oudi and Michael, and to the entire family, we extend our sincere condolences. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        RECANATI-Raphael. My family and I mourn the loss of a man fascinated by science and medicine, who understood that acts of kindness are integral to our humanity. It is an honor and a profound responsibility to bear his name, along with his beloved Dina's, in the pursuit of basic and clinical research to alleviate human diseases. Our love and deep condolences to a family of which we are a part. Jerome Groopman, Dina and Raphael Recanati Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Officers and Directors of The Psychoanalytic Research and Development Fund express their deep sorrow at the passing of Raphael Recanati whose generous support over many years served to inspire and encourage us in our work. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Dina, to his sons, and to his entire family. Mortimer Ostow, M.D., President Peter B. Neubauer, M.D., Vice President Sidney S. Furst, M.D., Professional Director
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Board of Directors, management and employees of Moran Towing Corporation mourn the passing of their long-time partner and friend, Raphael Recanati. Mr. Recanati's vision, generosity and loyalty were deeply appreciated by us. His support and counsel guided our joint ventures and will be long remembered. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Dina, his sons Oudi and Michael. Paul R. Tregurtha, Chairman, Moran Towing Corporation
        RECANATI-Raphael. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns its longtime Trustee, Raphael Recanati. A humanitarian with a global vision, he generously supported our work on behalf of religous freedom and human rights. To his beloved wife Dina, his children and the entire family, our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier, President Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. Dr. David H. C. Read, Vice Presidents
        RECANATI-Raphael. The members of the Shalom family deeply mourn the passing of Raphael, our beloved friend and colleague. He was a dynamic business associate and a font of philanthropic activities in which he involved those around him. Our heartfelt condolences to Dina and the family. Joseph and Natalie Shalom Abe and Norma Hedaya Muriel Attie Stephen Shalom Henry and Vivian Shalom
        RECANATI-Raphael. We are deeply saddened by the passing of the close friend and longtime business associate of our late husband and father. Our thoughts are with his loving wife, Dina, who devoted herself to him throughout and with his sons, Oudi and Michael. He will be greatly missed. The Merkin Family
        RECANATI - Raphael. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi David Yagoda, Chairman Dr. William Schwartz, President
      