
        ANCELL-Nathan S. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are saddened by the loss of Nathan S. Ancell, a beloved leader and cherished friend who was deeply committed to the Jewish people. A compassionate humanitarian, he earned enormous admiration for his extraordinary generosity and wisdom. Through his leadership and support of UJA-Federation, he helped alleviate human suffering and enhance Jewish educational and cultural programs. An honorary officer of UJA-Federation, he formerly served as a member and honorary co-chair of our Board of Directors. He was also an honorary board chair of the Mid-Westchester YM-YWHA and a past associate board chair of the Associated YM-YWHA's of Greater New York, both beneficiary agencies of UJA-Federation. We extend our sincerest condolences to his daughters, Susan Darley and Penny Randall, and his grandchildren, Leigh, David, Edin, Jackie, Lea, and Piper. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        ANCELL-Nathan S. The Brandeis University community mourns the death of a cherished friend. A member of our Board of Trustees for twenty-five years, Mr. Ancell truly left his mark on Brandeis. In recognition of his outstanding leadership, the University awarded him an honorary doctorate in 1990 and the Distinguished Community Service Award in 1988. His innovative mind and entrepreneurial spirit will be sorely missed. Together with his late wife, Enid, and his late sister and brother-inlaw, Florence and Theodore Baumritter, Mr. Ancell supported numerous Brandeis programs. A chair in physics, buttressed by a fellowship in physics, stands as a testament to the family's generosity and commitment to Brandeis. We extend our deepest sympathies to his daughters, Susan Darley and Penny Randall; to his six grandchildren; and to his entire family. Jehuda Reinharz, President Steve Grossman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        ANCELL-Nathan. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our good friend and honorary member of our Board of Overseers. His deep commitment to improving the human condition is exemplified by his establishment of the Florence and Theodore Baumritter Chair in Medicine at Einstein in honor of his sister and brother-in-law. He was a Benefactor of our institution and recipient of an honorary degree from the University. To his children, Susan Darley and Penny Randall, and to the entire family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        ANCELL-Nathan S. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of a founder and former chairman of its Home Furnishings campaign. Deeply devoted to the economic growth and development of the State of Israel, he was a longtime leader of our Corporate & Professional Division and a distinguished member of the Israel Bonds President's Club. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Gideon Patt, President & CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg National Campaign Chairman Richard L. Hirsch National Chairman Commerce & Industry Division Howard Hirsch, Chairman Greater New York Campaign Peter S. Kalikow Greater New York Chairman Corporate & Professional Division
        ANCELL-Nathan S. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Nathan Ancell, a long time and generous supporter of the League. We extend our deepest condolences to his daughters, Susan and Penny, and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director Arnold Forster, General Counsel
        ANCELL-Nathan S. The Board of Directors and staff of the YM & YWHA of Mid-Westchester mourn the loss of Nathan Ancell, Honorary Chairman of the Board. Both he and his wife Enid, past Y President, were generous benefactors and friends for over 30 years. Our condolences to his family. His good counsel will be sorely missed
        ANCELL-Nathan. The University of Haifa family mourns the loss of friend and supporter Nathan Ancell. May the Ancell family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and of Jerusalem. Lord Anthony Jacobs, Chairman Board of Governors Prof. Yehuda Hayuth, President
      