
        TRUMP-Fred C.. Husband of Mary MacLeod Trump. Father of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump, Jr. Grandfather of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump, III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Trump, Jr., Christopher Trump, Ivanka Trump, Eric Trump and Tiffany Trump. Great grandfather of Andrea Trump, Cristopher Trump and Robert Desmond. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday and Monday, 3-5:00 and 7-9:00 PM. Services at Marble Collegiate Church, Fifth Ave. at 29 St., Tuesday, 11:00 AM. Interment private. Contributions in memory of Fred C. Trump may be made to the Trump Pavilion at Jamaica Hospital, 90-28 Van Wyck Expressway, Jamaica, NY 11418 or the Long Island Jewish Medical Center, 270-05 76 Ave., New Hyde Park, NY 11040. TRUMP-Fred C. The employees and staff of Trump Management express their profound sorrow at the passing of Fred C. Trump, their beloved leader and employer for more than a half century. His contribution of affordable housing, lifetime employment, charitable donations and his kindness and generosity to all significantly improved the lives of millions of New Yorkers. We dedicate ourselves to his philosphy-be loyal to family, friends, and employees, work hard, always strive toward a new goal, and use the power of positive thinking. Our sympathies, thoughts, and prayers are with him, his family and all his friends. TRUMP-Fred C. The Lindenbaum family mourns the loss of its longtime and cherished friend. Fred was a master builder and a major philanthropist who had great vitality and joy in life. As a special friend of Bunny's he occupied a unique place in our families history. He changed the face of Brooklyn and Queens the way Donald has changed the face of Manhattan. With Fred, a handshake was worth more than a contract. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mary, Maryanne, Donald, Robert, Elizabeth and their entire families. Belle, Linda, Sandy Lindenbaum TRUMP-Fred C. The management and staff of the Mar-a-Lago Club in Palm Beach, FL. and Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, FL. wish to express their deepest sympathy to the family of Mr. Fred C. Trump. Mr. Trump spent many happy days at Mar-a-Lago and will be sincerly missed by all who had the privilege of meeting this fine gentleman. TRUMP-Fred. Dearest Donald our deepest sympathy on the loss of your father and our most heartfelt condolences to your family. Carolyn, Frank, Phillip, Dan, and The Staff at Trump National Golf Club TRUMP-Fred C. We mourn the loss of Fred C. Trump, father of our longtime client and colleague Donald J. Trump and extend our deepest sympathy to Donald and the entire Trump family. Rosenman & Colin, LLP
      