
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Boys Town Jerusalem family mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a cherished member of its International Board of Directors. Mr. Recanati, together with his wife Dina, were Chair Founders and established the Recanati Scholarship Fund at Boys Town as a major perpetual endowment. Mr. Recanati's philanthropic benevolence has benefited disadvantaged Israeli youth at Boys Town for four decades, providing them with an outstanding academic, technological and religious education. His tzedakah helps Boys Town fulfill its mission of turning young boys from limited backgrounds into young men with limitless futures. The individual and collective achievements of Boys Town's students will endure as a lasting tribute to his memory. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire Recanati family and pray that they will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Exec VP
        RECANATI-Raphael. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University in Israel mourn the passing of the distinguished banker and philanthropist Raphael Recanati and extends to his beloved wife Dina its sincerest condolences and to all the members of the family. Especially for Bar-Ilan and its unique mission it was important to have as its patron a descendant of one of the greatest experts in Jewish liturgy. To all who mourn we shall ever remember him even as we share with the family many personal memories. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor, Bar-Ilan University
        RECANATI-Raphael. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend and Founding Board Member, Raphael Recanati. His wise counsel at our inception and his commitment to our educational programs for Ethiopian-Israeli children were invaluable. We shall miss him greatly. To Dina, Oudi and Michael, our deepest condolences - our thoughts are with you. The Board of Directors of The Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity Elie Wiesel, President Marion Wiesel, Vice President
        RECANATI - Raphael. All of ELEM/Youth in Distress in Israel send our heartfelt condolences to Dina Recanati and her family on the death of Raphael Recanati. Dina and Rafi were the founders of ELEM, and their spirit and generousity were responsible for the rehabilitation of thousands of Israeli youth in distress. Our love, Ann Bialkin, May Forster, and ELEM/Youth In Distress in Israel.
        RECANATI-Raphael. We embrace Dina and mourn the loss of Raphael Recanati, lifetime supporter of WIZO. Evelyn Sommer, President Women's International Zionist Organization
      