
        KRAMER-Harold. Of Clifton, NJ age 90, died in his home June 6, 1999. He was a successful businessman, humanitarian and philanthropist. Active in the construction industry all of his life, he was one of the founders and president of the Home Builders Assoc. of Northern NJ and elected into the NJ State Builders Hall of Fame. He served as deputy mayor of Passaic NJ and president of the Passaic Chamber of Commerce. He served on the board of trustees of Passaic Beth Israel Hospital and Temple Emanuel, Passaic. Along with his wife, he was a major contributor to the Jewish Theological Seminary, the Holocaust Museum, the Museum of Jewish Heritage, the Daughters of Miriam Center of the Aged and the Jewish Community Center in Clifton, NJ, Temple Emanuel in Passaic, NJ and Temple Emanu-el in Palm Beach, Fla., the Schepins Retina Eye Institute in Boston, Ma., the Passaic Beth Israel Hospital and the Morse Geriatric Center in West Palm Beach, Fla., the Simon Weisenthal Center in Los Angeles, Ca. He was a man of integrity, loved and respected by all who knew him. His philosophy was not loving what you get but loving what you give. He will live on in the hearts and memories of his family. He is survived by his beloved wife of 66 years, Adeline Feinberg Kramer; loving children George and Carole, Arthur and Nancy, and Frederick; adoring grandchildren Larry and Catherine, Andrew and Deborah, Alexander and Lori, Susan, Allison, Joshua, Jonathon and Oliver; and great-grandchildren Alexandra, Abigail, Hannah, and Isaiah; a sister, Nina Wolff. Services will be held Tuesday at 1:30 pm, the Jewish Memorial Chapel, 841 Allwood Rd., Clifton, NJ 973779-3048. Contributions may be made to Temple Emanuel, 181 Lafayette Ave., Passaic, NJ 07055
        KRAMER-Harold. The Members, Board of Governors and Officers of the Preakness Hills Country Club mourn the loss of a good friend and fellow member of long standing and extend their deepest sympathies to his wife, Adeline, and the family. Melvin Fand, President
      