
        PETERS-Alton E. Beloved husband of Elizabeth, father of Emily and Rachel and grandfather of Madeline and Isobel Fletcher. The funeral service will be held at St. Thomas Church, 5th Avenue at 53rd Street, at 11AM on Thursday, June 3. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to The Metropolitan Opera Guild or the Phillips Exeter Academy Library.
        PETERS-Alton E. The officers, directors and staff of the Metropolitan Opera Guild mourn with profound sadness the untimely death of our President, Alton E. Peters. A member of the Guild board for 34 years, he served as Vice President, First Vice President and Chairman of the Executive Committee before being elected President in 1986. To each position he brought a passion for opera and a commitment to the Guild's mission of widening the audience for the art form and supporting the Metropolitan Opera. Long service gave him a unique understanding of the organization. To this knowledge he coupled a rare concern for the welfare and happiness of the staff and a leadership style that evoked collegiality, consistent attention and dedication from members of the board. To every task, he brought enthusiasm, optimism and a keen sense of humor. The Guild extends its deepest sympathy to his wife Elizabeth and his daughters Emily and Rachel. Thomas J. Hubbard, Chairman Susan S. Braddock, 1st Vice Pres. Rudolph S. Rauch, Managing Dir.
        PETERS-Alton. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the untimely death of Alton Peters. Husband of Elizabeth, who has been the dedicated and devoted Secretary of the Board for the past many years, Alton was an extraordinary friend of the theater, taking great pleasure in its achievements and always generous with his wise counsel. He will be sorely missed by all of us and his many friends at the theater and we extend our love and sympathy to Elizabeth and their daughters Emily and Rachel. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John S. Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Exec Producer
        PETERS-Alton E. Our respected Chairman for nearly twenty years, the Board of Goodwill Industries of Greater New York mourns the passing of a great friend and tireless supporter. Through his work with Goodwill, each year Alton E. Peters helped thousands of less fortunate New Yorkers build betters lives through the dignity of employment. He was a great champion of our cause. His charm, style and wit, along with his warmth and friendship, will be deeply missed by all in his Goodwill family.
      