
        RECANATI-Raphael. We deeply mourn the passing of Raphael Recanati whose generosity, vision and support were felt by so many in Israel and the United States. We at The American Friends of The Hebrew University (AFHU) are indebted to him and the Recanati family for their role and support of the Jerusalem School of Business Administration sponsored by the Israel Discount Bank Foundation. He will be remembered for his influence on the economic development of Israel and its financial service industry. Many of our programs at AFHU benefited from his support including the Harvey Krueger Center for Finance, the Rothberg International School, and the Golda Meir Fellowship Funds. We extend our sympathies to his family. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President Alex Grass, Chairman of the Board of Governors American Friends of The Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President Fred S. Lafer, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Board of Directors, officers and staff of Israel Discount Bank of New York mourn the untimely passing of our former Chairman, Raphael Recanati. His wisdom, foresight and generosity of spirit shaped our Bank in New York for many years, from its establishment as a Representative office, then to a Branch of our parent Israel Discount Bank Limited and finally to a New York State Chartered institution. His keen business acumen combined with his sense of social responsibility evidenced by his support of educational, medical and community organizations were an example and inspiration to all who knew him. We are fortunate to have benefitted from his guidance and to have been graced by his leadership and special presence. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Dina, his children, Michael and Oudi, and the remainder of his family. Arie Sheer, President and CEO Israel Discount Bank of New York
        RECANATI-Raphael. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourns the passing of Raphael Recanati, an esteemed member of our Board of Directors, and Tel Aviv University's Board of Governors. His generous support and commitment to Tel Aviv University will be remembered by generations of Tel Aviv University's Faculty Members, Students, and Researchers. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dina, his children, and the entire family. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University Alan L. Aufzien, Chairman, Board of Directors Melvin S. Taub, Chairman Emeritus Robert J. Topchik, President Stephen Lecker, Exec. V.P.
        RECANATI-Raphael. The faculty members of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai-NYU Health are deeply saddened by the passing of Raphael Recanati, a loyal and generous benefactor who had the vision and energy to create the Recanati/Miller Transplantation Institute at Mount Sinai. By integrating optimal medical and surgical therapies, this interdepartmental and interdisciplinary institute is committed to providing the most advanced care to patients. We are proud to participate in fulfilling Raphael Recanati's dream. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire Recanati family. Barry S. Coller, M.D., Chairman
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Officers and Board of Directors of the American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, mourn the passing of our dear friend and former Board of Chancellor Member, Raphael Recanati, who generously supported many programs at BGU over the years. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Dina, and to his sons, Oudi and Michael. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jules I. Whitman, President Solomon and Edith Freedman Greater NY Regional Co-Chairs Bernard C. Moscovitz, Exec. V.P.
        RECANATI-Raphael. It is with extreme sadness that the Physicians and Staff of The Department of Urology of Beth Israel Medical Center acknowledge the passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Mr. Raphael Recanati, Honorary Trustee of The Board of Trustees. His generosity supported the technological advancement of our department and furthered our ability to provide the highest quality patient care. To his wife and family and all his loved ones, our heartfelt condolences. Harris M. Nagler, M.D., Chairman
        RECANATI-Raphael. I mourn with great sadness that Raphael Recanati is no longer with us. The many decades of affectionate friendship, and the grace with which he and Dina lived their lives and thoughtfully considered others, have been central to my life since 1960, and will remain so. To Dina, who cared so much, constantly and selflessly, and to his sons Oudi and Michael, and all the family, I express heartfelt sympathy and a shared sense of loss. Isaac Stern
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem, mourn the death of Raphael Recanati, Founder and generous supporter for more than three decades. We will miss him deeply and send heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dina, and the entire family. Teddy Kollek, President, IM James S. Snyder, Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir. IM Judy Steinhardt, President, AFIM
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Friends of Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, deeply mourn the passing of Raphael Recanati, beloved husband of our esteemed Board member and colleague, Dina Recanati. We extend our deepest condolences to Dina, her sons, and to the entire family. Romie Shapiro, Chairman of the Board Harry Bauer, President Eillene Leistner, Executive V.P.
        RECANATI-Raphael. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Carnegie Hall express sadness at the loss of our friend Raphael Recanati. Without his generosity and great understanding of the desperate, immediate needs of the campaign to save Carnegie Hall, it might very well not have happened. We will never forget his warmth, and the support of the entire Recanati family. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weill, Chairman
        RECANATI-Raphael. We extend our sincerest condolences to Dina Recanati and sons, Oudi & Michael on the loss of their beloved husband and father, Raphael. A longtime supporter and Golden Founder, Raphael personified the values of tzedakah and chesed. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. for Shaare Zedek Med. Ctr. in Jerusalem
        RECANATI - Raphael. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum mourn the loss of Raphael Recanati, long-time and generous donor to The Museum. Our deepest sympathies are with his wife Dina, sons Oudi and Michael, as well as with the entire Recanti family. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
        RECANATI-Raphael. The AICF mourns the loss of Raphael Recanati, Chairman of the Board in the past, and supportive friend for many years. On behalf of the Board, we express our condolences to his wife Dina and the entire Recanati family. Vera Stern, President America-Israel Cultural Foundation
      