
        PETERS-Alton E. Beloved husband of Elizabeth, father of Emily and Rachel and grandfather of Madeleine and Isobel Fletcher. The funeral service will be held at St. Thomas Church, 5th Avenue at 53rd Street, at 11AM on Thursday, June 3. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to The Metropolitan Opera Guild or the Phillips Exeter Academy Library.
        PETERS-Alton E. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sorrow the death of Alton E. Peters, a devoted friend of our company and a Director of The Metropolitan Opera Association for 32 years, one of the longest and most distinguished records of Board service in our history. Alton Peters joined the Board in 1967, serving as Secretary of the Association from 1973 through 1985, Vice President from 1985 through 1992 and as Chairman of the Executive Committee since 1992. We recall with deep affection his boundless joy in the world of opera, particularly his intense commitment to the Metropolitan Opera. In this connection, we would like to take special note of Alton's courage during his recent illness where his determination to maintain his Met schedule with his characteristic sense of humor, including his special pleasure in participating in Met family occasions, was an inspiration to all. Our Board valued Alton's knowledge of the opera literature and the artists of the opera world and his thoughtful counsel to our directors and management, often during periods of profound institutional and financial challenges. As President of the Metropolitan Opera Guild since 1986, Alton led the Guild's extraordinary support for the Metropolitan Opera through its membership program, its publications and its education programs to build audiences for opera. A longtime Patron of the Metropolitan Opera, Alton Peters also generously participated in the creation of the Metropolitan Opera's first endowment fund, the Silver Anniversary Fund and the current effort to increase the Met's endowment fund for the new century. His record of service leaves a memorable legacy to future generations of opera audiences. Most of all, we feel privileged to have known him as a very dear friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Elizabeth and his daughters Emily and Rachel. Mrs. Gilbert W. Humphrey, Chairman Emeritus Bruce Crawford, Honorary Chairman James W. Kinnear, Chairman of the Board Paul M. Montrone, President
        PETERS-Alton E. The Metropolitan Opera Association deeply mourns the untimely death of Alton E. Peters, a lifelong friend of our company and a member of the Met family for 32 years. Alton became a director of the Association in 1967, and showed his stalwart commitment to its aims and development for over three decades in many important positions on our board, before becoming chairman of our executive committee in 1992. He was a wellknown figure around the opera house, and his wise counsel, deep knowledge, and untiring enthusiasm were invaluable in the crucial years which followed the Metropolitan's move to its new home at Lincoln Center. President of the Metropolitan Opera Guild since 1986, he loved opera passionately, and rejoiced in telling how he had first discovered it by listening to the Texaco-Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts as a young man. He was deeply committed to the Guild's aims of supporting the Metropolitan Opera and broadening opera audiences through essential programs, notably those aimed at young people. A man of great optimism, infinite personal charm, and lively wit, he earned the respect and affection of all those members of our company who had the privilege of experiencing his warmth and unfailingly courteous sense of human relationships. All of us in our company have lost a very dear, generous, and valuable friend, and he will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to his wife, Elizabeth, and his daughters, Emily and Rachel. Joseph Volpe, General Manager James Levine, Artistic Director
        PETERS-Alton E. His many friends and admirers at Christie's are saddened by the untimely loss of this kind and most generous man. While his first enthusiasm was for opera and for music in general, he was a frequent and exceedingly welcome visitor to auction sales and exhibitions, and enjoyed supporting events at the Morgan Library and other institutions. He collected books and shared with his wife Elizabeth a particular taste for Old Master Drawings and English watercolours, and indeed for Venice. Yet people remained his chief interest. He delighted in being helpful, whether over large things or small, and a newcomer to New York could be sure of the warmest of welcomes. He was always eager to make new friends and his unfailing warmth and loyalty to old ones made the strongest impression, one which will remain with all those who had the good fortune to know him. We will miss him profoundly. Noel Annesley Deputy Chairman Christie's London
        PETERS-Alton E. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts mourn the passing of Board member Alton E. Peters. His warmth, his integrity, his enthusiasm for the Metropolitan Opera and all of Lincoln Center were an inspiration to us all. A man of great dignity, courage, grace, and accomplishment he played many important roles at Lincoln Center: as an invaluable member of our Board of Directors; as a member of the New Building Campaign Leadership Committee; as a member of the General Services Committee; as a member of the Nominating and Board Review Committee; and as a member of the Committee for the 21st Century. We will miss his wise counsel and his warm friendship. We extend our love and sympathy to Elizabeth and their daughters, Emily and Rachel. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        PETERS-Alton. The Officers and Chapter of the Priory in the United States of America of the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem mourn the death of Alton Peters, our friend and confrere, who was a Knight of the Order of St. John and Vice Chancellor of the Priory in the United States. He had been a member of the Order for over 20 years and was a generous supporter of the work of the St. John Ophthalmic Hospital in Jerusalem. All of us will miss his kindness, dignity, wise judgement and fine sense of humor. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Elizabeth and his daughters Emily and Rachel. John R. Drexel IV, Prior Corbin R. Miller, Chancellor Don W. Lundquist, Secretary
        PETERS-Alton. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the untimely death of Alton Peters. Husband of Elizabeth, who has been the dedicated and devoted Secretary of the Board for the past many years, Alton was an extraordinary friend of the theater, taking great pleasure in its achievements and always generous with his wise counsel. He will be sorely missed by all of us and his many friends at the theater and we extend our love and sympathy to Elizabeth and their daughters Emily and Rachel. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John S. Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Exec Producer
        PETERS-Alton E. The Board and Staff of The Academy of American Poets mourn, with deep sadness, the untimely passing of our beloved Treasurer, Alton E. Peters. Alton guided the Academy with devoted wisdom and humor as board member, Treasurer and friend since 1988, and his straightforwardness, generosity and uncommon dedication to the mission of the the Academy were much appreciated and admired by all his colleagues. His friendship was steadfast; he will be very greatly missed. Our profound sympathy to his wife Elizabeth and his daughters Emily and Rachel.
        PETERS-Alton E. A founder in 1972 of The American Friends of Covent Garden and The Royal Ballet, Inc. and its Vice President. His dedication as well as his warmth and friendship with all associated with the Friends both in the United States and England will be remembered. Our board and officers extend our love and sympathy to Elizabeth and their daughters Emily and Rachel. Mrs. Walter E. Annenberg, Chairman Mrs. Daniel P. Davison, Vice President John M. Kriz, Secretary
        PETERS-Alton E. The Board and staff of The Animal Medical Center mourn the untimely passing of devoted trustee and exceptional friend, Alton E. Peters. His quiet, steadfast work on behalf of companion animals and veterinary education, as well as his commitment to the cultural life of New York City, were revered by all who knew him. Our condolences to his family. Cynthia Phipps First Vice President Board of Trustees Guy Pidgeon, DVM President and CEO
        PETERS-Alton E. The Irving Berlin Music Company has lost a leader, a visionary, and a friend. Alton was a constant source of wisdom whose clear thinking has helped perpetuate the legacy of Irving Berlin. Insightful and passionate about everything he did, he was always there for a quick answer or an important meeting on any subject. We will miss being able to pick up the phone and hear that cheerful voice. His spirit will live on, and we will always remain grateful to him. The Irving Berlin Music Company
        PETERS-Alton E. Our respected Chairman for nearly twenty years, the Board of Goodwill Industries of Greater New York mourns the passing of a great friend and tireless supporter. Through his work with Goodwill, each year Alton E. Peters helped thousands of less fortunate New Yorkers build betters lives through the dignity of employment. He was a great champion of our cause. His charm, style and wit, along with his warmth and friendship, will be deeply missed by all in his Goodwill family.
        PETERS-Alton E. The Council and members of the Grolier Club mourn the untimely passing of Alton Peters, distinguished bibliophile noted for his T.S. Eliot collection, long-time member of our Council, and Finance Committee Chairman. His wisdom and sound judgment have contributed immeasurably to the vibrancy of the Club and its bibliophilic achievements. Our deepest sympathy to his family and friends. William T. Buice III, President
        PETERS-Alton. The family of Mary Ellin and Marvin Barrett grieve for the loss of their beloved brother-in-law and uncle whose advice and affection have been a support to us for many years. We shall sorely miss his intelligent, witty and loving presence and join his wife our dear sister and aunt Elizabeth and his daughters Emily and Rachel in mourning him.
        PETERS-Alton E. We are devastated by the death of our beloved friend. His graceful and generous counsel, his irreverent sense of humor, and his extraordinary wisdom will be missed by us all. Our deepest sympathies are with Elizabeth, Emily, and Rachel. Mary Rodgers Guettel Bill Hammerstein Ted Chapin
        PETERS-Alton E. The Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization mourns the death of Alton Peters. He was instrumental in bringing about our felicitous relationship with the Irving Berlin family and remained a champion of that collaboration through the years. We shall miss him. The Rodgers & Hammerstein Org.
        PETERS-Alton. Edouard and Linda Emmet, their children Caroline, Ellen and Edward grieve the loss of Alton, their beloved brother-inlaw and cherished uncle. We shall miss his warmth and joyfulness and his devotion to our family. All our thoughts at this time go to Elizabeth, Emily and Rachel.
        PETERS-Alton E. The members and staff of the Firm of Kelley Drye & Warren mourn the passing of our friend and partner of 16 years. His energy and good humor will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Elizabeth, and to his daughters, Emily and Rachel.
      