
        MERNS-Adrienne. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the untimely loss of Adrienne Merns, beloved daughter of Sy Syms, a generous supporter and cherished friend who shares with his family a deep devotion to Jewish causes. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mr. Syms and his wife, Lynn; Ms. Mern's companion, Patrick, and their daughter, Chloe; Ms. Mern's mother, Ruth Merns; her sisters Marcy and Laura; and her brothers, Robert and Richard. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        MERNS-Adrienne Iris. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, deeply mourns the passing of Adrienne Iris Merns, cherished daughter of beloved friend Ruth Merns. As a lifelong member and supporter of Hadassah, Ruth Merns has played an instrumental role in providing medical research for the Hadassah Medical Organization in Jerusalem. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and may Adrienne's memory be for a blessing. Marlene E. Post, National President Dr. Laura Schor, National Executive Director
        MERNS-Adrienne. We extend heartfelt condolences to Sy Syms and Ruth Merns, our devoted friends and Silver Founders, on the untimely passing of their beloved daughter. May they and the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. For Shaare Zedek Med. Ctr. In Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, Pres.
        MERNS-Adrienne. Yeshiva University High School expresses our deepest sympathies to Sy Syms, our cherished friend, on the tragic passing of his beloved daughter, Adrienne Merns. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Felix Glaubach Elliot Gibber Co-Chairmen of the Steering Committee of Yeshiva University High Schools
        MERNS-Adrienne Iris. It is with great sadness that we express our deepest condolences to Sy Syms and his entire family on the tragic passing of his daughter, Adrienne. Sy and Lynn, close friends and supporters of the Yeshiva University Museum, are admired for their generosity and kindness. Erica Jesselson and the Yeshiva University Museum Family
        MERNS-Adrienne. The Directors, Officers and staff of Israel Discount Bank of New York extend our heartfelt condolences and sympathy to our esteemed Director, Sy Syms and his family on the untimely passing of his beloved daughter, Adrienne. Arie Mientkavich Chairman of the Board Arie Sheer, President and CEO Israel Discount Bank of New York
      