
        GREEN-Morris L., Dr. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University in Israel mourn the untimely passing of their esteemed member, Honorary Alumnus of the University and past Chairman of its Global Board of Trustees, Dr. Morris L. Green. In the few years we were privileged to enjoy his leadership and generosity, he did much for the University as a whole. In addition to the important role he assumed for the advancement of Torah Study in Israel and the Diaspora, which was exemplified by his chairmanship of BarIlan University's Ludwig and Erica Jesselson Institute for Advanced Torah Studies, Morris Green was especially devoted to the development of Hebrew Law for use in the modern State of Israel; this was his area of special interest and one of his enduring monuments for the future of the State of Israel. To his wife, Charlotte, and the entire family, we extend sincerest condolences. We share with them memories of an historic career of service to G-d, our people and all humanity. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Charles Dimston, Chairman, American Board of Trustees Melvin Stein, President, American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Gen. (Ret.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President, Bar-Ilan University
        GREEN-Morris L. (Moshe). The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of one of its respected leaders and longtime friends who with his wife, Charlotte, was a Benefactor of Yeshiva University. Morris L. Green was the devoted Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the university's affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary; a member of the Yeshiva University Board of Trustees and a stalwart worker on behalf of every facet of Yeshiva University life. He established the Joseph J. and Bertha K. Green Memorial Endowment Fund at RIETS which supports the Torah Umadda project and journal and the Orthodox Forum Series of Publications. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his beloved wife, Charlotte, his children: Steven (and Janice) Green; Rena (and Joel) Greenberg; Joseph (and Beth) Green; Ira (and Michele) Green and his brother Aaron (and Mildred) Green and sister Miriam (and Fred) Weiss and his nine grandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President David S. Gottesman, Chairman Yeshiva University Board of Trustees Judah Feinerman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees
        GREEN-Morris. AMIT is profoundly grieved by the untimely passing of a most generous benefactor and patron of the AMIT Pre-National Service/Army Program for women in Jerusalem. He was a most respected Jewish communal leader whose vision, foresight and wisdom will be sorely missed. Heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Charlotte, and children, his devoted siblings, Miriam Seiler Weiss and Aaron. Green, and the entire family. Evelyn Blachor, Nat'l President Marvin Leff, Executive Director
        GREEN-Morris L. The Religious Zionist of America mourns the passing of its Past President, a preeminent and dedicated Zionist leader. Extraordinary Philanthropist whose involvement and contributions for religious education will be his great legacy. Our condolences to his entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Simcha Krauss, President Rabbi Rafael Grossman, Chairman of the Board Matthew Maryles, 1st Vice Pres. Israel Friedman, Exec. Vice Pres.
        GREEN-Morris L. We extend our sincerest condolences to Charlotte Green on the loss of her beloved husband, Morris. A longtime supporter and Golden Founder, Morris personified commitment to K'lal Yisroel, and the values of tzedakah and chesed. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. for Shaare Zedek Med. Ctr. in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, Pres.
        GREEN-Morris L. A shining star of our family has fallen. Morris L. Green (Moshe), the eldest child of Joseph J. and Bertha Kramer Green has left us. His life exemplified family traditions of Zionism, Tzadaka and communal involvement. We all will carry special memories of Moshe. The Kramer Family Reunion Committee
        GREEN-Morris L. 505-507 Associates mourns the passing of its Managing General Partner, Morris Green, and extends deepest sympathies to his bereaved wife, Charlotte, and to his entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion & Jerusalem 505-507 Associates
        GREEN-Morris L. 480 West 187th Street Associates records the recent passing of its Managing General Partner, Morris Green, and offers sympathies to his wife Charlotte and his family. May they know no further sorrow.
      