
        WASSERMAN-Louis R., M.D. Age 88, Professor Emeritus of Hematology at Mount Sinai Hospital School of Medicine, of Sandy Hook, CT on June 21, 1999. Beloved husband of Julia Wasserman, devoted brother of Natalie W. Wolf. Services will be held at the convenience of the family. A celebration of Life will be held at a later date. Contributions may be made to the Hematology Department, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, c/o Development Office, Box 1049, 1 Gustave L. Levy Place, NY, NY 10029 or the Danbury Hospital Development Fund, 24 Hospital Avenue, Danbury, CT 06810.
        WASSERMAN-Louis R. MD. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Louis F. Wasserman, MD, who was associated with Mount Sinai for more than 60 years. Dr. Wasserman earned his medical degree at Rush Medical College of the University of Chicago in 1935 and joined Mount Sinai in 1937 as a Research Fellow in Hematology. He became an internationaly renowned expert in diseases of the blood, served as Director of Mount Sinai's Division of Hematology for nearly two decades, then as Chairman of the Department of Clinical Science. He later held the Albert A. and Vera G. List Professorship in Medicine, and subsequently was named Mount Sinai School of Medicine's second Distinguished Service Professor. Dr. Wasserman established one of the nation's premier hematology training programs, and he was recognized worldwide for his many contributions to the study of the red cell, iron metabolism and pathologic states, including a leadership role in the study of polycythemias. He was an author of nearly 200 papers and a member and holder of leadership positions in numerous professional organizations, including President of the American Society of Hematology, Vice President of the International Society of Hematology and Chairman of the Board of Scientific Counselors of the Division of Cancer Treatment of the National Cancer Institute. His contributions to research and medical education were recognized by the award to him in 1975 of The Jacobi Medallion, the highest honor of The Mount Sinai Alumni. Dr. Wasserman will be fondly remembered for his dedication, integrity and personal warmth, and he will be sorely missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Julia, to his sister, Natalie Wolf, and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Barry R. Freedman, Exec. VP Theresa A. Bischoff, Exec. VP Joel Bauer, MD, President, Medical Board
        WASSERMAN-Louis R., M.D. We mourn the loss of our distinguished colleague, mentor and friend Louis R. Wasserman, who was the chair of the Department of Hematology from 1952 to 1972 and the first Albert A. and Vera G. List Professor of Medicine. Under his leadership, Mount Sinai became a leading center for training, research and patient care in hematologic diseases. Dr. Wasserman was the recipient of many honors. He was a past president of the American Society of Hematology and of the International Society of Hematology. A distinguished lectureship of the American Society of Hematology, the Ham-Wasserman Lecturer, is named in his honor. Dr. Wasserman's inspired leadership of an international study group established the standards for the treatment of Polycythemia Vera, to the benefit of thousands of patients. We extend our deepest sympathy to this family and to his lovely wife, Julia. Peter C. Harpel, M.D. Chief Division of Hematology Albert A. and Vera G. List Professor of Medicine and the Faculty of the Division of Hematology, the Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        WASSERMAN-Louis R., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distiguished friend and colleague. Dr. Wasserman, a pillar in the Department of Hematology at Mount Sinai for more than sixty years, was a world renowned Hematologist and leading authority on the study of polycythemias, the red cell, iron metabolism and pathologic states. In 1975, the Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Wasserman in acknowledment of his outstanding professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the Medical Center and the Alumni. Our sincere condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, Treasurer
      