
        PORTER-H. Boone. The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, one of the Episcopal Church's most influential priests and thinkers and whose many achievements include the 1979 revision of the Book of Common Prayer, died on Saturday, June 5. An author, artist, educator and philanthropist, he was 76 and lived in Southport, Connecticut. The vision of the Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter's 44 years of ordained ministry aimed to revitalize the Episcopal Church through education, liturgical reform and inclusion of its marginalized members. His work of raising up new leadership, enriching Christian worship and creating a central place for women, Afro-and Native Americans and rural communities in the Church was often opposed but succeeded in redefining the Episcopal Church's relationships within itself and with the world. The Rev. Ralph McMichael, a noted professor at Nashotah House Episcopal Seminary near Milwaukee, Wis., recently commented: '' Dr. Porter's ministry has been, and continues to be, so rich and varied that it is hard to designate his legacy in the Episcopal Church in one or two ways. He is liturgical scholar, professor, pastor, editor and missioner. He has shaped our liturgy, our parishes, our prayer book, our publications and our view of ministry and mission of the Church. A descendant of the family of early American explorers, the Boones, Dr. Porter was born in Louisville, KY into a prosperous business family (his father founded the Porter Pain Company) and showed an early interest in the beauty and mystery of nature and humanity. He attended St. Paul's School in Concord, NH and his study of art and philosophy at Yale College in the 1940's was interrupted by World War II. He fought in the Pacific Theater, where he served with Army Intelligence during General MacArthur's campaign to retake the Philippines and occupy Japan. After the war, Dr. Porter completed his studies at Yale and entered the Berkeley Divinity School, also in New Haven. There, under the direction of Dr. Edward Hardy, he began his study of liturgy and worship that later became his foremost and world renowned expertise. This led him to read for a doctorate in early Christian baptismal rites at Oxford University in England in 1952. In 1954 he returned to the United States to teach Church History at Nashotah House Episcopal Seminary near Milwaukee, WI. Four years later, Dr. Porter became the first tenured professor of liturgy at General Theological Seminary in New York City, the Episcopal Church's oldest theological seminary. There he served on committees at the Episcopal Church's National Headquarters, 815 Second Avenue and his graduate program liturgy attracted and shaped key people in the next generation of Church leadership.
        #
      