
        LEVAVY-Zvi. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourns the passing of a cherished and devoted friend Zvi Levavy. His committment and dedication, through the generosity of the Morris J. & Betty Kaplun Foundation, established and improved the Kaplun Building of Physics at Tel Aviv University and supported numerous research projects at the University. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University Alan L. Aufzien, Chairman, Board of Directors Melvin S. Taub, Chairman Emeritus Robert J. Topchik, President Stephen Lecker, Exec. V.P.
        LEVAVY-Zvi. On June 20, 1999. Advisor, teacher, community leader and visionary. Happily and harmoniously married to the late Berenice (Bardin) for over 63 years. Adored and adoring brother of Sarah Weiss, beloved father of Bardin (and Sue-Ellen), doting grandfather of Raphael and Sara Beth. A fount of compassion, wisdom and sound judgement to the many who sought his counsel whether as certified public accountant, community leader or trusted friend. Loved, respected-and now missed-by all who knew him. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Zvi & Berenice Levavy Fund of the Jewish Federation of Greater Middlesex County.
        LEVAVY-Zvi. The Morris J. and Betty Kaplun Foundation Inc. is profoundly saddened by the loss of its long-time President and guiding spirit, Zvi Levavy. He was an inspiration to all who knew him and the charitable work he fostered has left a mark on generations of young people. Under his guidance, The Morris J. and Betty Kaplun Foundation Inc. contributed to the advancement of science and the welfare of society. The Trustees of the Morris J. and Betty Kaplun Foundation, Inc. Glorie Isakower Lawrence Marin Aaron Seligson Moshe Sheinbaum
        LEVAVY-Zvi. The Partners and Staff of Freeman & Davis LLP express our deepest sympathy to Bardin Levavy and family on the death of our distinguished partner, Zvi Levavy. He was a friend and mentor to all of us, and we will miss him.
      