
        TRUMP-Fred C. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow to Donald Trump on the passing of his beloved father, Fred. We also would like to extend our heartfelt sympathies to the entire Trump family. May his memory be a blessing. The Principals of Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. Barry M. Gosin Jeffrey Gural Aaron Gural James D. Kuhn William G. Cohen Ronald E. Goldberger Arthur H. Lerner Arthur Rosenbloom Marlene Post
        TRUMP-Fred C. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board and Members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City acknowledge the passing of a devoted and generous friend. Fred was a staunch supporter of the needs of children and adults with Cerebral Palsy-and their familiesfor many years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Mary, and to the Trump family. Leo Hausman Chairman of the Board Martin Hausman, President Edward Matthews, Exec Director UCP/NYC
        TRUMP-Fred C. A master builder who combined bold vision with social responsibility and a generous spirit, he has put his mark on New York forever-and left our city a better place. To his son Donald and all the members of the Trump family, our deepest sympathies from your friends and partners at the Riverside South Planning Corporation.
        TRUMP-Fred C. The Board of Directors and staff of United Cerebral Palsy of Queens express their deepest sympathies at the passing of a true friend and humanitarian, Fred C. Trump, who so generously supported United Cerebral Palsy of Queens. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Mary and the entire Trump family.
        TRUMP-Fred C. The Directors and staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America note with deep sorrow the passing of Fred C. Trump. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Trump family. John F. McGillicuddy, Pres. Richard M. Ruffino, Scout Exec
        TRUMP-Fred. The Executive Board and Board of Trustees of The National Kidney Foundation, New York/New Jersey mourns the loss of our friend and benefactor, Fred Trump. Our sympathy is extended to the family. Ira Griefer, MD, President
        TRUMP-Fred. We deeply regret and are saddened by the loss of your father. Our sympathy extends to your family friends and all those who deeply admired and respected him. Richard and Mimi Fischbein
        TRUMP-Fred C. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire Trump family on the loss of their beloved father and grandfather. Adrienne Albert The Marketing Directors
        TRUMP-Fred C. We extend our deepest condolences to Donald Trump on the passing of his father. Grubb & Ellis Management Services
        TRUMP-Fred. The law firm of Fischbein Badillo Wagner Harding expresses its deepest condolences to Donald Trump and his family.
      