
        MULLE-Joseph S., M.D. F.A.C.S. On June 20, 1999 of Jamaica Estates, NY. Born in Greenpoint on November 24, 1911. Educated at Boys High, he graduated from St. John's University in 1933. He received his medical degree from St. Louis University in 1937, specializing in orthopedic surgery. He served in the United States Army as a Lt. Colonel from 1941 to 1946. Former Chief of Orthopedic Surgery of Brooklyn State and Mary Immaculate Hospitals, and Director of Orthopedic Surgery at Catholic Medical Center from 1970 to 1982. In 1998 St. John's University conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Humane Letters. He was a member of the Knights of Malta. He was a member of Hempstead and Mariner Sands Golf Clubs. Beloved husband of the late Anne, loving father and father-in-law to Tony and Antoinette. Cherished grandfather of Joseph, Anne Marie, Thomas and his wife Caryn. Fond brother of Anthony of Nashville, TN and Catherine Schnakenberg of Wallingford, CT. Visiting will be held Tuesday 7-10 P.M. and Wednesday 2-5 and 7-10 P.M. at the R. Stutzmann & Son Funeral Home Inc (224-39 Jamaica Avenue, Queens Village, NY). A funeral mass will be held on Thursday at 10:15 A.M. at the Immaculate Conception Monastery, Jamaica Estates, NY. Entombment will follow at St. John's Cemetery, Middle Village, NY. In lieu of flowers, donations to Calvary Hospital, 1740 Eastchester Road, Bronx, NY 10461-9955 would be greatly appreciated.
        MULLE-Joseph S. The members of the Board of Trustees of Catholic Medical Centers of Brooklyn and Queens mourn the passing of Dr. Joseph Mulle, long-time member of the board of trustees of Catholic Medical Centers. We offer our heartfelt prayers and our deepest sympathy to the Mulle family on their great loss. Most Rev. Joseph M. Sullivan Episcopal Vicar for Health and Human Services Chairman, Board of Trustees
        MULLE-Joseph S. The members of the administrative staff of Catholic Medical Centers of Brooklyn and Queens deeply regret the death of Dr. Joseph Mulle, longtime member of the board of trustees of Catholic Medical Centers. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to the Mulle family, and offer them our prayers in this time of sorrow. William D. McGuire, President and Chief Executive Officer
        MULLE-Joseph S. The members of the Medical Board of Catholic Medical Centers of Brooklyn and Queens note with sorrow the passing of Dr. Joseph Mulle, long-time member of the board of trustees of Catholic Medical Centers. We are saddened by the Mulle family's loss, and we extend our deepest sympathy to them. Sebastian Avolese, M.D. President, Medical Board
      