
        TRUMP-Fred C. Husband of Mary MacLeod Trump. Father of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump, Jr. Grandfather of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump, III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Trump, Jr., Christopher Trump, Ivanka Trump, Eric Trump and Tiffany Trump. Great grandfather of Andrea Trump, Cristopher Trump and Robert Desmond. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday and Monday, 3-5:00 and 7-9:00 PM. Services at Marble Collegiate Church, Fifth Ave. at 29 St., Tuesday, 11:00 AM. Interment private. Contributions in memory of Fred C. Trump may be made to the Trump Pavilion at Jamaica Hospital, 90-28 Van Wyck Expressway, Jamaica, NY 11418 or the Long Island Jewish Medical Center, 270-05 76 Ave., New Hyde Park, NY 11040.
        TRUMP-Fred. A driving, dynamic force has left us with the death of a Life Member of our Association, Fred Trump. Acknowledged to be one of those rare breeds of men: a visionary, yet practical businessman whose word was his bond. His likeness cannot be replaced. Our sympathies to his sons Robert and Donald and daughters Elizabeth and Maryanne. Our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Mary. Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York Arnold Sollar, Michael Kerr Co-Chairmen Jerome Belson, President
        TRUMP-Fred C. The partners and staff of Appraisal Group International mourn the passing of Fred C. Trump. We wish to extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to his wife Mary, and to his children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Appraisal Group International Irwin J. Steinberg and Avi M. Vardi
        TRUMP-Fred C. Dear Donald, we were all very saddened to hear of the great loss of your dad. We send you and your family our deepest sympathies and warmest thoughts. Staff and Fellow Board Members of The Police Athletic League Robert M. Morgenthau, Chairman
        TRUMP-Fred C. The management and staff of The Miss Universe Organization express their deepest sympathy at the passing of Fred C. Trump and extend their most heartfelt condolences to Donald J. Trump and the entire Trump family.
        TRUMP-Fred C. A dear friend whom I admired and respected with love for his many good deeds and thoughtful counsel. To Mary, his children, and the entire Trump family my sympathy and heartfelt condolences. Louise M. Sunshine
        TRUMP-Fred. We mourn the loss of Fred Trump, our very first and steadfast client and friend for over 50 years. Our deepest sympathy to Donald and heartfelt condolences to the Trump family. Lindenbaum & Young Sidney D. and Alan H. Young
        TRUMP-Fred C. We mourn the loss of Fred C. Trump and extend our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Durben & Tosti, LLP
      