
        SAFFER-Doris Rankin. On June 14, 1999. Beloved wife of Alfred Saffer. Loving mother of Bonnie Bernard and Linda Harris. Dear sister-in-law of Ben Wertkin. Cherished grandmother to Bianca, Marshall, Mackenzie, Betsy, Nicole and Bradley. Services Wednesday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to The Doris Rankin Saffer Memorial Fund, C/O Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Box E, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021.
        SAFFER-Doris. The Board and staff of ICD-International Center for the Disabled express deep regret at the passing of Doris, wife of our distinguished Trustee Dr. Alfred Saffer, and we extend our sympathy and condolences to him and the family. Jeremiah M. Bogert, President Daniel B. Rosen, Ph.D., Chief Executive Officer
        SAFFER-Doris. Sister of my beloved wife Phyllis and adored by everyone who knew her. A loving and caring person who will never be forgotten by her adopted brother Ben, her nephews and niece Sandra, Martin, Craig and their children Scott, Jeffrey, Brian, Logan and Stephanie.
        SAFFER-Doris. Our family and the world has lost a gracious lady. Her warmth and good humor enriched the lives of everyone she touched. Rest in peace dear Doris. Your progeny will carry on. We loved you dearly. Norma and Burton Bernard
        SAFFER-Doris. Thank you for being Doris, for being our friend and for all the wonderful times we shared with you and your beloved Fred. Our heartfelt condolences to Fred, Bonnie, Linda, the grandchildren and Ben. Zina, Joe and their family.
        SAFFER-Doris. The absence of your grace, wit, charm and laughter will leave tremendous gaps in the lives of everyone who knew you. Nanci and Stuart Gelb Gail and Barry Group
        SAFFER-Doris. We will truly miss your smiling face. We had so many good times together. Our heartfelt sympathy to Fred, Bonnie and Linda. Roz and Gil Rudow
        SAFFER-Doris. We admired your courage, spirit and sense of humor and will always cherish the memories of our friendship. Elaine and Sheril
        SAFFER-Doris. A beautiful lady who brought joy, laughter and happiness to so many. She was the truest of friends. I will miss her. Dolores Salzman
        SAFFER-Doris. Deepest sympathy to Fred Saffer, Bonnie and Linda on the loss of their wife, mother and dear friend. Ben and Marilyn Ossman
        SAFFER-Doris. Our dear Doris who brought so much joy to our lives. We will never forget you. Marilyn and Wally
        SAFFER-Doris Rankin. Dear friend, you will be missed by all who knew you. Rest in peace. Mitzi Feldman
      