
        SONNENREICH-Joseph I., Col., USAF (Ret.) Formerly of New York City, now of Leander, TX, and West Shokan, NY, died of complications following a stroke in Austin, TX, on Friday, June 4, 1999, at the age of 82. He held BS and MS degrees from New York University, and was one of the first religious school teachers certified by the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion. He was long associated with Temple Israel of the City of New York, and after moving to Texas, he and his wife, Rena, became members of Congregation Beth Israel in Austin. He served as a pilot in WWII, flying with the B-24 ''Our Baby'' crew, which he considered his ''second family,'' in the 453rd Bomb Group, 2nd Air Division of the 8th Air Force. He elected to stay in the Air Force reserve, without remuneration, ''because it was his civic duty.'' Eventually promoted to Colonel, he completed his service as Commander of the 9212th Air Reserve Squadron in New York City. He headed his own advertising agency, and was a past President of the League of Advertising Agencies in New York City. A member of the New York Fencers Club, he served on its Board of Governors. Most important to him however, was serving civic organizations dedicated to helping others, and he gave generously of his time-a past President and Trustee of New York Lodge No. 1, B'nai B'rith; a member of ADL's National Commission; past Chairman of the ADL New York Regional Board; past Chairman of the Board of the Metropolitan Coordinating Council on Jewish Poverty; a member of the Management Assistance Program of UJA-Federation of NY; and a past President of the New York Society for the Deaf. Somehow, between his business, athletic and civic activities, he found time to marry Rena and spent 45 wonderful years with her. Beloved son of Minnie and William (both deceased). Beloved brother of Manny (deceased) and his wife Fay. Cherished ''UNK'' of Bill and Fran Sonnenreich, Mike and Linda Sonnenreich. Granduncle extraordinaire of David and Sharon Sonnenreich, Wes Sonnenreich, Diana Sonnenreich, Peter Sonnenreich, Nina and John Gafni. Great-uncle of Rachel Sonnenreich and Adina Gafni. Held in great affection-as ''Uncle Joe''-by Camp High Pointers. Treasured cousin of members of his mother's family-affectionately known as the ''Goldberg Clan'' (nee Karachik in Russia). First, last and always, adored husband-partner-best friend of Rena. Visitation and funeral at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue (please call for dates and times). Interment will be at the Temple Israel Cemetery in Hastings-on-Hudson, NY. In lieu of flowers, please contribute to the organization or charity of your choice in his memory.
      