
        TRUMP-Fred C.. Husband of Mary MacLeod Trump. Father of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump, Jr. Grandfather of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump, III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Trump, Jr., Christopher Trump, Ivanka Trump, Eric Trump and Tiffany Trump. Great grandfather of Andrea Trump, Cristopher Trump and Robert Desmond. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday and Monday, 3-5:00 and 7-9:00 PM. Services at Marble Collegiate Church, Fifth Ave. at 29 St., Tuesday, 11:00 AM. Interment private. Contributions in memory of Fred C. Trump may be made to the Trump Pavilion at Jamaica Hospital, 90-28 Van Wyck Expressway, Jamaica, NY 11418 or the Long Island Jewish Medical Center, 270-05 76 Ave., New Hyde Park, NY 11040.
        TRUMP-Fred. A driving, dynamic force has left us with the death of a Life Member of our Association, Fred Trump. Acknowledged to be one of those rare breeds of men: a visionary, yet practical businessman whose word was his bond. His likeness cannot be replaced. Our sympathies to his sons Robert and Donald and daughters Elizabeth and Maryanne. Our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Mary. Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York Arnold Sollar, Michael Kerr Co-Chairmen Jerome Belson, President
        TRUMP-Fred C. The employees and staff of Trump Management express their profound sorrow at the passing of Fred C. Trump, their beloved leader and employer for more than a half century. His contribution of affordable housing, lifetime employment, charitable donations and his kindness and generosity to all significantly improved the lives of millions of New Yorkers. We dedicate ourselves to his philosphy-be loyal to family, friends, and employees, work hard, always strive toward a new goal, and use the power of positive thinking. Our sympathies, thoughts, and prayers are with him, his family and all his friends.
        TRUMP-Fred C. The Lindenbaum family mourns the loss of its longtime and cherished friend. Fred was a master builder and a major philanthropist who had great vitality and joy in life. As a special friend of Bunny's he occupied a unique place in our families history. He changed the face of Brooklyn and Queens the way Donald has changed the face of Manhattan. With Fred, a handshake was worth more than a contract. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mary, Maryanne, Donald, Robert, Elizabeth and their entire families. Belle, Linda, Sandy Lindenbaum
        TRUMP-Fred. The Roman family deeply mourns the passing of the most dedicated, loyal and devoted family man and builder New York has ever known. Our city will greatly miss this unsurpassed icon but will feel comfort that his greatness has been passed down through his children Maryanne, Elizabeth, Donald and Robert. Most of all, sincerest sympathy to Mrs. Mary Trump, Mr. Fred Trump's lifetime companion and New York's perennial First Lady. The Roman Family
        TRUMP-Fred. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Staff, and all the employees of the Trump Pavilion for Nursing and Rehabilitation note with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed friend, Fred Trump, for whom our organization is named. His guidance and support will be long remembered. Our sincerest condolences to the family. William Erhardt, Chairman Gregory R. Bradley, Executive Vice President
        TRUMP-Fred. The Trustees, Administration, and the Medical Staff of Jamaica Hospital Medical Center note with sadness the passing of our long time colleague and Board member, Fred Trump. His counsel and benevolence were vital elements in the development of our medical center. Our sincerest condolences to the Trump family. William Erhardt, Chairman David P. Rosen, President & CEO
        TRUMP-Fred C. The entire staff of The Trump organization is deeply saddened by the passing of Fred C. Trump. He inspired and influenced a great many people during his long and vibrant lifetime, and he will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences to his beloved wife Mary, to his devoted children, Donald, Robert, Maryanne and Elizabeth, and to all his cherished grandchildren.
        TRUMP-Fred C. Edwin K. Zarkin and his partners and employees of Realty Program Consultants, LLC express their sorrow at the loss of Fred C. Trump who passed away on June 24, 1999. Mr. Trump will be recognized as one of the great humanitarians. He was always a gentleman and a good friend. I will miss him. Edwin K. Zarkin
        TRUMP-Fred C. We mourn the loss of Fred Trump, a most intelligent and conservative real estate developer. Having been a good friend, not only socially, but in business, his word was his contract. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Mary and family. The Giffuni Family
        TRUMP-Fred C. The Partners & Staff of M.R. Weiser & Co., LLP mourn the passing of Fred C. Trump. We wish to extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to his wife Mary and to his children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren.
        TRUMP-Fred. We mourn the loss of Fred Trump, our very first and steadfast client and friend for over 50 years. Our deepest sympathy to Donald and heartfelt condolences to the Trump family. Lindenbaum & Young Sidney D. and Alan H. Young
        TRUMP-Fred C. We mourn the loss of Fred C. Trump, father of our longtime client and colleague Donald J. Trump and extend our deepest sympathy to Donald and the entire Trump family. Rosenman & Colin LLP
      