
        GREENE-Jerome. On behalf of the Board of Trustees and staff of 13/WNET, we wish to extend our most profound condolences to Dawn Greene and family. We share your loss at the passing of Jerome Greene. A member of 13/ WNET's Board of Trustees, he played a long and active role in guiding the station to a position of great productivity and national prominence. As a Chairman of the Real Estate Committee, he led the historic effort to move the station to its new digital headquarters. For many years, his leadership, philanthropic contributions and his esteemed counsel have anchored 13/WNET's success. We join New York in mourning a man of extraordinary vision and generosity. He will be greatly missed. Steven R. Rattner, Chairman William F. Baker, President
        GREENE-Jerome L. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater convey their sorrow and condolences to Dawn and the children upon the sad death of Jerome. Jerry was an advocate of our theater and favored it with his benefactions. An inveterate theatergoer, he praised the work he admired and was forgiving of the plays he didn't care for. He was generous to the arts and education in New York and his genial presence will be missed at Lincoln Center. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John S. Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Exec Producer
        GREENE - Jerome L. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum wish to express their profound sadness at the passing of Jerry Greene. He was a truly generous friend of The Museum for many years and his leadership support created the Dawn and Jerome L. Greene Gallery, among other invaluable projects. We mourn his loss and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Dawn and his entire family. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
        GREENE-Jerome L. The Executives and Staff of Peter Sharp & Co, Inc., deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed business associate and friend. We will miss his leadership, wisdom, and friendship. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dawn, and the entire family. The Executives and Staff of Peter Sharp & Co, Inc.
        GREENE-Jerome L. The partners of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield mourn the passing of our valued friend and client, Jerome L. Greene. He was an extraordinary man, whose wisdom and grace will be sorely missed. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
      