
        FISHER-Zachary. The partners of Fisher Brothers mourn the passing of our founder and partner Zachary Fisher and express our deepest condolences to his wife, Elizabeth, and the entire Fisher family. Zachary was a proud American, a leading real estate developer and a wonderful person. He helped to build New York City's skyline while devoting much of his life to the men and women in the U.S. Armed Forces. A recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, Zachary founded the Intrepid Sea Air Space Museum; the Fisher House Program, which provides lodging for families of hospitalized military personnel; and the Fisher Armed Services Foundation, which makes contributions to military families who lose loved ones in tragic circumstances. Zachary also established the Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research at Rockefeller University. He touched and enriched many lives and will be sorely missed. A private memorial will be held aboard the Intrepid on Monday, June 7. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Intrepid Museum Foundation, 46th Street at 12th Avenue, New York City 10036. Fisher Brothers Larry Fisher Richard L. Fisher M. Anthony Fisher Arnold Fisher Kenneth Fisher Steven Fisher
        FISHER-Zachary. The officers, leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Zachary Fisher, a magnanimous benefactor and dedicated philanthropist. Equally generous to many causes that benefit all New Yorkers, he leaves a dynamic legacy visible in the skyline of his beloved city. With great sensitivity he improved the lives of many people throughout our nation whose tragedies, if not faces, were known to him. He will always be remembered for his outstanding commitment to the State of Israel, and to Jewish communities in danger throughout the world. With his help, the American Jewish community was able to rescue generations of Jews from harm's way. His adherence to the highest standards of philanthropy enables us to continue to provide a diverse network of human services throughout our metropolitan region. It was our great privilege to merit his unique friendship. We extend our sincere sympathies to his wife Elizabeth, step-son Bill Crovello, brother Larry, sister Ginny Ross, and all the members of the family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec. V.P.
        FISHER-Zachary. On behalf of the entire New York University School of Medicine community, we note with great sorrow the passing of Zachary Fisher, a longtime generous benefactor and good friend. With his wife, Mr. Fisher established the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Alzheimer's Disease Education and Resources Program which will speed our scientists in their quest to understand one of today's most devastating illnesses. We will miss him deeply and offer our sincere condolences to his wife, Elizabeth; his brother, Larry; and sister Ginny; and his stepson, Bill Crovello. Henry R. Silverman, Chairman Board of Trustees NYU School of Medicine Robert M. Glickman, MD Dean, NYU School of Medicine
        FISHER-Zachary. His colleagues at the Ellis Island Restoration Commission mourn the death of their dedicated and beloved fellow Board Member, Zachary Fisher, whose devotion to the restoration of Ellis Island and the development of a Family History Center were inspirational. We extend our deepest sympathy to Elizabeth and his family. Zach's efforts will not be in vain. Philip Lax, President Norman Liss, VP of Development Jacqueline Beusse, VP Dr. August Bolino, VP Set Charles Momjian, VP Eunice Whittlesey, Secretary Howard Slotnick, Treasurer
        FISHER-Zachary. We were deeply grieved and saddened to learn of the untimely passing of our good friend, Zachary Fisher. A generous champion in the struggle against Alzheimer's disease, his leadersip and commitment will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to the Fisher family and especially to our fellow Director, Dr. Sunnie Kenowsky. William M. Brachfeld, President Marilyn Cohen, Co-President John Jager, Exec. Director Jean Marks, Assoc. Exec. Director Alzheimers Assn. NYC Chapter
        FISHER-Zachary. Temple Israel of the City of New York mourns the death of Zachary Fisher, cherished trustee and friend. Our sincere condolences to his entire family, to his extended ''Intrepid'' family, and all those whose lives he has touched. Oskar Brecher, President Mark Kaufmann, Chair Judith S. Lewis, Rabbi Martin J. Zion, Rabbi Emeritus
        FISHER-Zachary. Devoted Director and supporter of the entire law enforcement community. Our deepest sympathies to his brother Larry, nephew Tony, his family and staff. He will be sorely missed. On behalf of the Board of Directors of NY's Finest Foundation. Hon. Rodney Ettman, Chairman Hon. Shelly Goldfeder, Pres.
        FISHER-Zachary. The Real Estate Board of New York mourns the passing of Zachary Fisher, a shaper of our city's splendid skyline and esteemed colleague and a distinguished public benefactor. We extend our sympathy to the Fisher family. Bernard H. Mendik, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
      