
        RODGERS-August E., 96. Of Hollywood, Florida, died on Sunday, July 11, 1999 at the Miami Heart Institute. He lived the ''American Dream.'' Born in 1903 in Messinis (Nission), Greece, he came to the U.S. at 13 years of age. Though his first jobs were at restaurants, hotels and grocery stores in the Philadelphia area, he also worked for Westinghouse and as a messenger boy for Western Union, later becoming a Teletype Operator in Newark. In 1926 he entered Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, PA to study Electrical Engineering. It was here that he met his future wife Margaret Hull, whom he married in 1933. They celebrated their 66th anniversary this past March. In 1932, Mr. Rodgers joined the Western Union Engineering Department and continued with them until his retirement in 1972, with nearly 50 years of accumulated service. During his many years with Western Union he oversaw the introduction of several new technologies, including a coast to coast Weather-Map System for the U.S. Weather Service, and the WU Satellite Communications Network. In the 1960's he was lead Transmission Engineer, based in Paris and then Stuttgart, supervising a project to provide systems for high security encrypted communications worldwide for the combined U.S. Armed Services. This took him throughout the free world, to most of Europe, the Middle East, and much of Asia. During his retirement in Hollywood, FL, it was his spur of the moment offer to fill in for a teletype operator, who took ill, that lead to a part time job sending news stories for the Racing Form from Hialeah, Calder and Gulf Stream Racetracks, and lasting for twenty years. Besides his wife, he is survived by his daughter Ann R. Frimmet of Norwalk, CT and his son Edward N. Rodgers of Pleasantville, NY; grandchildren Roxanne Freedman and Terrence Frimmet, of Norwalk, CT; Christopher Rodgers of the Bronx, NY; Craig Rodgers of Pleasantville, NY; Curtis Rodgers of Nutley, NJ; Carin Rodgers of Pleasantville, NY; and 2 great-grandchildren. His family will receive friends at Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY, Friday 2-4 & 7-9 P.M. where a service will be held Friday, 8:30 P.M. Interment Saturday, Fair Ridge Cemetery, Chappaqua, NY.
      