
        HEINEMANN-Henry, 58. A resident of Hudson OH, died suddenly on Sunday, June 27 at his home. He leaves behind his beloved wife, Patricia, having just celebrated their 35th wedding anniversary on June 20th. He was a cherished father to his three sons; Eric and his wife Colleen, John and Henry Brian and his fiancee Carson Coleman. He was a devoted brother to Dieter and Herbert of Bremen, Germany. He also leaves behind a loved mother and father-in-law and was a loving brother-in-law and uncle. Born on August 19, 1940 in Bremen, Germany, he immigrated to the United States at age 19. To expedite his United States citizenship, he served in the U.S. Army at Fort Bragg, NC in the 82nd Airborne division as a paratrooper. After serving in the Army, he went to night school at City College of New York, where he received his accounting degree and was a member of the Sigma Alpha-Delta Chapter, Honor Service Society. Mr. Heinemann began his forty-year finance career as a securities clerk at Chase Manhattan Bank and later became manager of financial controls in their International Department. After working at Chase, he went on to become a Senior Financial Officer at Chemical Bank. He then became a Chief Operating Officer at First American Bank of New York which was acquired by KeyCorp, where he was an Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Key Technologies. In Wyckoff, NJ where his family resided for 20 years, he was very active in coaching youth soccer for the Wyckoff Torpedoes Soccer Club. In Bremen, Germany he played soccer, in his teens, for the Werder Bremen Soccer Club. Hank had many interests. He was a prolific reader, loved music, golf and nature. He never missed an opportunity to watch a sunset. Friends may call at the Vander Plaat Funeral Home, 257 Godwin Ave, Wyckoff, NJ on Friday 7-9PM. A Funeral Mass will be held Saturday 10AM at St. Elizabeth's RC Church, 700 Wyckoff Avenue Wyckoff, with burial at Mary Rest Cemetery, Mahwah. Memorial contributions may be made to the National Marfan Foundation, 382 Main St, Port Washington NY 11050-3136 or The Province St. Mary of the Capuchin Order, Burse of Lt. William Donohue, 210 West 31st Street, New York, New York 10001-2876.
      