
        BERKOFF-Richard, Dr., of Rye, NY., passed away on July 28, 1999, from cancer of the pancreas at the age of 62. He is survived by his adoring wife, Ethel, his three devoted children, Jeffrey Berkoff, Gregory Berkoff and Amy Rakoff, his father, Robert Berkoff, his brother, Martin Berkoff and sisterin-law Susan Berkoff as well as by his four grandchildren, Rose, Nicole, Alex and baby Julia, due in August, two stepchildren, John and Rene Lipsio, his son-in-law, Steven Rakoff and daughter-inlaw, Claire Berkoff. He was born in the Bronx, in 1937, where he atteneded Christopher Columbus High School before going on to New York University, where he earned his Bachelor of Science degree. His plans of going to Columbia Dental School changed after graduating college when he received a chiropractic adjustment to his neck which cured him of a long standing problem with headaches, and he went on to study at New York Chiropractic Institute, instead. He received his doctorate in 1960 and opened his first office in Harlem, New York. The social unrest and subsequent riots in Harlem during the middle and late 1960's forced him to move his practice to New Rochelle, where he worked until 1980, when he opened Chiropractic Associates on Palmer Avenue in Larchmont. He was a longtime member of Westchester Country Club, where he loved to play golf with his wife and his group of close friends. It is difficult to assess the scope or the force of the impact Richard Berkoff had on his community. The number of people he helped guide, heal and support reached into the thousands. He inspired admiration and comfort with a particular quiet goodness which was his gift. In the last year of his life he continued to receive regular communications from hundreds of patients whose lives had changed as a result of coming under his care, many of whom he had not seen since his days in Harlem, forty years earlier. In lieu of flowers, it was his wish that donations be sent to his favorite charity, the Guide Dog Foundation for the Blind, 371 East Jericho Tpk, Smithtown, NY 11787-9897. Funeral service Friday July 30 12:30pm at Zion Memorial Chapel in Mamaroneck, NY, 914-381-1809. A committal service at Ferncliff Cemetery.
      