
        SANDERS-Samuel. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of our beloved friend and devoted Steinway Artist Samuel Sanders, on July 9, 1999 in New York at the age of 62. Mr. Sanders was not only one of the world's most acclaimed collaborative pianists, he was a beloved teacher and an inspired chamber musician. His exquisite artistry and indefatigable spirit left an indelible mark on the lives of all fortunate to know him. To Susan, Sophie, and to his entire family we extend our deepest sympathy. Bruce A. Stevens, President Peter B. Goodrich, V.P. Worldwide Concert and Artist Activities
        SANDERS-Samuel. The entire Elaine Kaufman Cultural Center family mourns the passing of Samuel Sanders, who entered our lives at the opening of Merkin Hall and made his final public appearance in The Listening Room at Merkin this March. Sam was a superb artist, a generous advisor and a dear friend. We extend our condolences to his loved ones. Charles Dimston, Chair, Merkin Hall Participating Board Lydia Kontos, Executive Director, Kaufman Center Vicki Margulies, Director, Merkin Hall
        SANDERS-Samuel. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of our distinguished faculty member, Samuel Sanders. Through his superb artistry, his profound humanity and his irrepressible spirit, Sam enriched us all and brought generations of musicians to a deeper understanding of the art of the collaborative pianist. The courage and dignity that he brought to his last days reflected the values that he embodied throughout his extraordinary life. We send our sincere condolences to his entire family and loved ones. Joseph W. Polisi, President
        SANDERS-Samuel. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art extend their heartfelt condolences to trustee, Martin Sanders on the passing of his brother, Samuel Sanders. Samuel's extensive career as a pianist and accompanist to the world's finest musicians included performances in Tel Aviv. He leaves us with a unique legacy in music and will be missed by all.
        SANDERS-Samuel. Dear Sam, thank you for more than thirty years of music making. Thank you for your loyalty. Thank you for your humor and most of all, thank you for your friendship. You will always be in my heart and I shall always miss you. Itzhak Perlman
        SANDERS-Samuel. The Board, membership and staff of Chamber Music America are deeply saddened by the death of our friend and past Board member (1990-1996). His dedication, enthusiasm, and personal warmth will long be remembered.
      