
        SANDERS-Samuel. 1937-1999. Beloved son of the late Irving and Mollie. Adored father of Sophie. Loving soulmate of Sue Rothwell. Cherished brother of Martin (Susan), Henriette Miller (Herb) and the late Marjorie Sanders Visner (Sidney). Distinguished uncle of Jessica, Miranda, Jasmine, Adam and Emmanuel Isaac Sanders, Samuel Sanders Visner and the late Dr. Marc Sanders Visner, Dr. Robert, Bart and Phyllis Miller. Samuel, an inspiration to us all, dedicated his life to music. A memorial service will be announced at a later date.
        SANDERS-Samuel. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of our distinguished faculty member, Samuel Sanders. Through his superb artistry, his profound humanity and his irrepressible spirit, Sam enriched us all and brought generations of musicians to a deeper understanding of the art of the collaborative pianist. The courage and dignity that he brought to his last days reflected the values that he embodied throughout his extraordinary life. We send our sincere condolences to his entire family and loved ones. Joseph W. Polisi, President
        SANDERS-Samuel. July 9, 1999. In your own life you overcame the toughest physical and emotional obstacles to become a world renowned pianist and teacher, and a cherished friend, father and soulmate. Your courage and creativity will continue to be an example to us and to all of those whose lives you touched. Thank you for your generosity and dedication. We will always hold your music and beautiful spirit in our hearts. Susan Rothwell & Sophie Sanders
        SANDERS-Samuel. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and its Men's Club mourn the passing of the beloved brother of our devoted member Martin Sanders and extend heartfelt sympathy to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Fred Distenfeld, President
        SANDERS-Samuel. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved brother of its devoted parent and generous benefactor Martin Sanders and extends heartfelt sympathy to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        SANDERS-Samuel. The Partners, Associates and staff of Goldberg, Weprin and Ustin, LLP, express their deep sorrow on the untimely death of Samuel Sanders, a renowned artist and distinguished gentleman. We extend our heartfelt condolences to our client and dear friend Martin Sanders and to the entire Sanders family.
        SANDERS-Samuel. A great friend and colleague; a superior musician. We will miss you. Carole Convissor Robert White Lee Walter
      