
        ROSE-Walter. Walter Rose of New Rochelle died June 30, 1999 at Sound Shore Medical Center. He was 101 years of age. Mr. Rose is survived by his son Stanley of New York City, his daughter Marion Reichner of Pearl River, NY and his son Martin of Greenwich, CT. Also, Mr. Rose was the loving grandfather of Jennifer Shepp, Michael Rose, Kenneth Reichner, Gordon Rose, Daniel Reichner and J. Carter Rose and the greatgrandfather of Garrett, Rachel, Eli and Sarah. He was married to the late Rose Gold, Rose who died in 1991. Mr. Rose attended Syracuse University on an athletic scholarship and graduated in 1922 with a degree in law. He was member and officer of Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity on a chapter and national level. Mr. Rose was a partner in the family retail furniture business, Joseph Rose & Sons Inc. in Long Island City and was President of the Steinway Street Merchant's Association. He was a retired Captain from 114th Precinct Auxiliary Police, a track and field coach of the PAL and an original founder of the Boys Club of Queens. At the time of his retirement in 1970 he became active in the Children's Service League of Westchester County until his demise. Walter Rose received numerous awards including Chancellor Eggers Award for Outstanding Support and Letterman of Distinction from Syracuse University. In 1995 he was inducted in the Westchester Senior Citizen's Hall of Fame for his outstanding Community Service. He was presented with a proclamation from the City of New Rochelle for his 100th birthday. Chapel Service will be conducted at the funeral home today at 10:00 a.m. with interment to follow at the Old Mount Carmel Cemetery. The family will receive friends and relatives at Mr. Rose's home today following the committal until 4:00 p.m. and from Sunday until Thursday morning at the home of Marion Reichner. Donations can be made to the Children's Service League, P.O. Box 340, Wykagyl Station, New Rochelle, NY 10804 or the Walter Rose Scholarship at the Sigma Alpha Mu Foundation, 651 North Range Line Road, Carmel, Indiana 46032. For more information, contact George T. Davis Funeral Home, 14 Le Count Place, New Rochelle, NY 10801, 914-632-0324.
        ROSE-Walter. The Eta Chapter Foundation of Sigma Alpha Mu at Syracuse University joins all of his Fraters, and his family, in mourning the loss of Walter Rose. Initiated into the Fraternity in 1917, he lived to become an icon of Eta, and Syracuse. His contribution as an undergraduate from 1917 to 1922 (with time out for World War I) in academics and athletics, became an inspiration to both his contemporaries and to the hundreds of undergraduates of Eta who followed him. Walter championed the spirit of friendship and companionship that Eta represented in the three homes which it occupied during his lifetime. His was a constant admonition to grow and prosper the Chapter to the end that all of its brothers would be a credit to themselves, to Eta, and to Syracuse. His was a blessed life extending over a century, and living to see sons and a grandson become members of Eta and reflect credit upon him, the Chapter, and the University. His unbroken presence at annual Homecomings, for more than 75 years, remains an achievement, which was celebrated only last year, and for which all in attendance were grateful. Having spent these many, many years as part of Eta Chapter here on Earth, we wish him well in our Chapter Eternal, where his soul will be bound up in fraternal bonds with those Fraters who have preceded him. Leonard Rubin Chairman Emeritus Marshall M. Gelfand, President
      