
        NGAI-Shih-hsun. July 8, 1999, at age 78, Teaneck, NJ. Beloved husband for fifty years of Hsueh-hwa. Proud father of Mae, Janet and John. Loving grandfather of Michael, Evan, Baikal, Stephanie and Julie. Loving father-in-law of David and Lisa. We love, cherish and honor you. Services Friday, July 16, 11AM, Barrett Funeral Home, 148 Dean Dr., Tenafly, NJ. In lieu of flowers, please donate to ''Shihhsun Ngai Research Fellowship'', c/o Alan Zank Dept. of Anesthesiology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University., 630 W. 168 St., NY NY 10032.
        NGAI-Shih-Hsun, MD. Colleagues at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons and the New York Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of Shih-Hsun Ngai, MD, Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Pharmacology. Dr. Ngai began his career at Columbia Presbyterian in 1949 when he was recruited by Virginia Apgar, MD, to the hospital's obstetrical anesthesia service. He went on to become Chairman of the Department of Anesthesiology and Director of the Anesthesiology Service. He was a member of numerous academic societies and was the founding member of the Chinese American Medical Society. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Hseuh-Hwa Wang, MD, Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons, their three children and five grandchildren. Dr. Ngai's leadership and vision will be greatly missed. Herbert Pardes, MD, VP for Health Science and Dean, Faculty of Medicine at Columbia University David B. Skinner, MD, Vice Chairman and CEO, New York Presbyterian Hospital
        NGAI-Shih-Hsun, MD. The Department of Anesthesiology of the College of Physicians & Surgeons of Columbia University and the New York Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia-Presbyterian Campus, note with sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague, Dr. ShihHsun Ngai, Professor Emeritus and Consultant Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Pharmacology. Dr. Ngai served for more than 40 years as a truly outstanding Anesthesiologist, Clinician, teacher and researcher. He served with distinction as the second Chairman of the Dept. of Anesthesiology and was instrumental in building the Dept. of Anesthesiology into one of the best reserch departments in the world. He was an inspiration to several subsequent generations of Anesthesiologists. Our sincere condolences go to his wife, HseuhHwa, and their three children and families. Margaret Wood, MD, Chairman, Anesthesiology, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons
      