
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Board of Trustees, consumers, families and staff of YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities mourn the tragic loss of John F. Kennedy Jr., his wife Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, and his sister-in-law Lauren G. Bessette. John Kennedy Jr.'s commitment to individuals with disabilities and his pivotal role in nurturing the development of a professional workforce has resulted in a better quality of life for people with disabilities and a significantly well-trained and respected staff. We are proud to have been associated with John in these ventures and are forever grateful for his support. Through his Reaching Up, Inc., the Kennedy Fellowship Program and his proactive relationships with the City University of New York and the not-for-profit community, John has created a lasting legacy. Marcella Fava, Chairperson Paul H. Levitz, Ph.D. Vice Chairman YAI's Board of Trustees Joel M. Levy, D.S.W. Chief Executive Officer, YAI Philip H. Levy, Ph.D. President & C.O.O., YAI
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The entire Medgar Evers College community wishes to offer our prayers and condolences to the Kennedy and Bessette families. Through ''Reaching Up,'' Mr. Kennedy played a significant role on our campus over the last ten years by providing technical assistance to faculty to develop curriculum in the area of disabilities, stipends and career mentoring opportunities for our Kennedy Fellows, and ongoing support for our Worker Education Program. John was a caring, compassionate, committed humanitarian who never lost faith in the power of education to transform individuals. The students who have benefited from his generosity are tangible reminders to us of the direct impact he has made in their lives. We hope our memories and heartfelt thanks help you find some comfort in the thought that others care. Edison O. Jackson, President Medgar Evers College
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Kennedy Fellows, the Board of Directors and all of the many people involved with Reaching Up Inc. mourn the loss of our founder, leader and dear friend, John F. Kennedy Jr. John acted intelligently, compassionately and decisively to improve education and career advancement for thousands of workers giving care to people challenged by disability or illness. He was generous with his time and with his spirit. He made all of us feel very special. We will miss him very, very much. As we carry on his work, he will always live in our hearts. We would like to express our deepest sympathies to the Kennedy family and to the family of Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and Lauren Bessette. Jeffrey A. Sachs, Vice President William Ebenstein, Executive Dir.
        KENNEDY-John F., Jr. The Board of Directors and Members of the Naked Angels Theater Company are deeply saddened by the loss of our former Board member and patron John Kennedy, his wife Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, and sister-in-law Lauren Bessette. John's passion for artistic excellence energized Naked Angels throughout its first decade. His noble commitment to supporting the dramatic arts and Naked Angels is a legacy for which he will always be remembered. We loved him and will miss his great energy, humor and kindness. John inspired us all. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Kennedy and Bessette families.
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Creative Coalition mourns the passing of our friend John F. Kennedy, Jr. John will always be remembered for his strength and dignity and as a shining leader in the political and philanthropic communities. His dedication and commitment to the world of public affairs has been instrumental in empowering current and future generations. We are honored to have known him and offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. We will miss him. William Baldwin, President The Creative Coalition
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. At our commencement in May, John F. Kennedy Jr. told us ''learning must continue to be a lifelong experience that is informed by your direct involvement in the lives of your fellow citizens.'' The Washington College community joins the world in mourning the passing of a man who will continue to serve as an inspiration to all. We offer our deepest condolences. John S. Toll, President Washington College Chestertown, Maryland
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Board of Directors, staff and residents of HELP USA express heartfelt condolences to the Kennedy and Bessette families on their tragic losses. John Kennedy's advocacy on behalf of New York's homeless and those less fortunate will always be remembered and continue to inspire our work. We will miss him greatly. Maria Cuomo Cole, Chair HELP USA
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The board and staff of Riverkeeper mourn the tragic death of John F. Kennedy Jr. and Carolyn Bessette Kennedy who strongly supported our efforts to protect the Hudson River and its watershed. We express our profound sympathy to the members of their families. Robert H. Boyle, President Fletcher Hodges, Exec Director
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. We treasure our good times, friendship, and ''Hingerbloos Tuesdays'' forever. Risa and Levi Kahane
      