
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Board of Directors, Members, Staff and Program Participants of AHRC New York City wish to express their condolences, sympathy and grief at the tragic passing of John F. Kennedy Jr., his wife Carolyn and his sister-in-law, Lauren Bessette. John Kennedy's personal and heartfelt contributions to the careers of those who serve people with mental retardation, as well as his significant impact upon the lives of the very people we serve will never be forgotten. It is our hope that we may, in various ways, also pursue those human goals which ennobled his mission. We are honored and grateful for having been allowed to participate in the development of the training program at the City University of New York, and to have functioned as committed partners with the Reaching Up Foundation in the development of this, and the Kennedy Fellowship Programs. Scores of Kennedy Fellows are emerging from the various schools of CUNY equipped to better serve people with disabilities than ever before. Without John F. Kennedy Jr., this would not have happened. We convey our sadness and support to John's family and to the family of his wife and sister-in-law. You are in our prayers. Al Agovino, President AHRC Michael Goldfarb Executive Director AHRC
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The City University of New York mourns the tragic deaths of John F. Kennedy Jr., with his wife Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, and sister-inlaw Lauren Bessette. John Kennedy Jr. co-founded the Kennedy Fellows Program and Consortium for the Study of Disabilities at CUNY with Trustee James P. Murphy in 1989. Educational opportunities have been provided at CUNY to 10,000 workers who give direct care to persons with mental retardation, developmental disabilities, and other human service needs. John Kennedy cared deeply about helping the working poor and those most in need and treated each person with a transforming respect, kindness and generosity of spirit. We offer our deepest sympathy to the Kennedy and Bessette families. Herman Badillo, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Christoph M. Kimmich, Interim Chancellor
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. It is with profound sorrow that YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities, consumers, families and staff mourn the loss of John F. Kennedy Jr., his wife Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, and his sister-in-law Lauren G. Bessette. John Kennedy Jr.'s commitment to individuals with disabilities and his pivotal role in nurturing the development of a professional work force has resulted in a better quality of life for people with disabilities and a significantly well-trained and respected staff. Through his Reaching Up, Inc., the Kennedy Fellowship Program and his proactive relationships with the City University of New York and the not-for-profit community, John has created a lasting legacy. Joel M. Levy, D.S.W. Chief Executive Officer Philip H. Levy, Ph. D. President & C.O.O.
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Kennedy Fellows, the Board of Directors and all of the many people involved with Reaching Up Inc. mourn the loss of our founder, leader and dear friend, John F. Kennedy Jr. John acted intelligently, compassionately and decisively to improve education and career advancement for thousands of workers giving care to people challenged by disability or illness. He was generous with his time and with his spirit. He made all of us feel very special. We will miss him very, very much. As we carry on his work, he will always live in our hearts. We would like to express our deepest sympathies to the Kennedy family and to the family of Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and Lauren Bessette. Jeffrey A. Sachs, Vice President William Ebenstein, Executive Dir.
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Board of Directors, the Advisory Board and the Staff of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation extend their most heartfelt condolences to the families of Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, John F. Kennedy Jr. and Lauren Bessette on their presumed deaths. We also send our sincere thoughts to John's colleagues and associates at George magazine and Hachette Filipacchi Publications who have been loyal supporters of the work of the Foundation. John and Carolyn were just beginning to come into their own and we admired them so much. This is an unexpectedly premature tragedy and a great loss to what they would have both become. Evelyn Lauder, President Deborah Krulewitch, Treasurer Susan Hirschhorn, Exc. Dir
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The trustees, faculty, staff, alumni and students of New York University School of Law are saddened by the loss of John F. Kennedy Jr., Class of 1989. His life was a shinning example of the values we strive to instill in our students. John's legacy of service will continue to inspire generations of law students to use their talents to serve their communities. We are very proud to have counted him as one of our own. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the Kennedy and Bessette families at this time of profound loss. John Sexton, Dean New York University School of Law Lester Pollack, President New York University School of Law Foundation
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. American Ballet Theatre notes with deep sadness the tragic loss of John Kennedy, Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and Lauren Bessette. Their intelligence, accomplishment, compassion and style had already inspired an entire generation who join us in mourning these individuals of such enormous potential. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to John's beloved sister, our very dear friend, Caroline, and her family, and to every member of the Kennedy and Bessette families. To all those at George and Hachette Filipacchi, we offer our most sincere condolences.
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Graduate Center and The CUNY Baccalaureate Program mourn the loss of John F. Kennedy Jr. Through the creation of the Kennedy Fellows Program, he enabled many talented CUNY Undergraduates working with people with disabilities to pursue a degree in developmental disabilities through our CUNY Baccalaureate Program. His dedication, generosity and graciousness will always be remembered. Frances Degen Horowitz, President, The Graduate Center, CUNY
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale express heartfelt grief on the untimely loss of Carolyn and John F. Kennedy Jr. and Lauren Bessette. We extend to our dear friend Senator Edward M. Kennedy and the entire Kennedy and Bessette families our sincere condolences and our prayers that they will find comfort in the love of family and friends. Milton A. Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman Daniel A. Reingold, Exec. VP
      