
        GINSBURG-Martin, 85. Of Miami, FL, passed away on Sunday, July 25th, 1999. He is survived by his loving wife, Natalie (Bobbie), his son, Allan Ginsburg, his daughter, Bonnie Levy, and daughter-in-law, Carolyn Ginsburg. He is also survived by his eight grandchildren, Ashley, Gregory, Jamie, Jeffrey, Kenny, Robyn, Sherri, and Stephanie; in addition to their spouses, Melissa Ginsburg & Keith Zucker. Also surviving are three greatgrandchildren, Eric, Mitchell and Ryan. He is also survived by his brother, Abe Ginsburg, and his wife, Sylvia, and their family. He was involved in many charitable causes. We would like to mention just a few. He was involved in the Byalstoker Home for the Aged in New York City. In Israel he created the Martin Ginsburg High School of Yavne and the Ginsburg Youth Center in Tiberias in addition to three additional kindergartens. He was also involved in Technion in Israel & was a founder of the Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach. He was a true gentleman among men & an inspiration to his family and will be missed by all who had the good fortune to know him. Funeral services will be held Thursday, July 29th, at 12 Noon, Gutterman-Musicant, 402 Park Street, Hackensack, NJ. The Family
        GINSBURG-Martin. Beloved father, husband and brother. Adored grandfather & great-grandfather. A guiding light for all whom he touched. The Levy-Ginsburg patriarch, he provided a solid foundation for those he loved, in the best of times and in the worst of times. A philanthropist who gave to generations of Israelis in the same way that he provided love and support for all the family. What Pop has given to us & to all the lives he touched has ensured that his spirit will live on in each of our hearts forever and ever. We love you, and will miss you, Pop. Always in our hearts, Bonnie, Jaime, Sherri and Robyn.
        GINSBURG-Martin. His vision and leadership helped create and build the strong foundation at Jaclyn. His influence will be continued by all that he touched. His wisdom and guidance will always remain with us. We mourn the passing of Martin Ginsburg. Your friends and family at Jaclyn, Inc.
        GINSBURG-Martin. Poppy, you are the greatest man I have ever known. I love you and will miss you always. Sherri Levy
      