
        RAISLER-Robert K. Died peacefully on July 12 at his home in New York, surrounded by his children and grandchildren. He was the son of the late Samuel and Belle Raisler of New York City, brother of the late Harold Raisler and for more than 42 years, the adoring husband of the late Dolly Wolfson Raisler (who pre-deceased him by four weeks), the father of Gordon, Steven and Lynn Jacobson and grandfather to Michael, Anthony and Joe Jacobson and Joe's finacee Jordana Matthews. As longtime President and Chairman of Raisler Corporation, a family controlled, New York based Mechanical Contracting firm founded in 1899 by his father Samuel. Robert Raisler was a strong and respected Building Trades Industry advocate, and a member of many industry and professional associations and boards. Following his World War II service in the Pacific theater as a Naval Officer and Chief of aircraft maintenance on the aircraft carrier US Boxer, he maintained a life long association with the Navy as a reserve Officer, ultimately holding the rank of Lt. Commander, Ret. Widely regarded as a true ''gentleman'', Robert Raisler was President of the University of Pennsylvania's Class of 1926, former President of the Congregation Shaaray Tefila in New York City and a philanthropist well known to many charitable and educational institutions. Services will be held at Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 East 79 Street (at 2nd Avenue) on Thursday, July 15, 1999 at 11:30AM. In lieu of flowers, the family request that donations be made to the Raisler Fund at the University of Pennsylvania's School of Engineering. The Engineering School's alumni office may be contacted at (215) 898-6564.
        RAISLER-Robert K. Temple Shaaray Tefila records his death with profound sorrow. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to his sons, their loved ones, his grandsons, and all of the family. We will never forget his leadership, caring and helpfulness. Our sanctuary and school, which he helped to build and support, will embrace him for the last time on Thursday, July 15 at 11:30 A.M., 250 E. 79th Street. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Dr. Ellen R. Saxl, President
        RAISLER-Robert K. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the father of our esteemed members, Mr. Gordon and Mr. Steven Jacobson, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President
        RAISLER-Robert. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club, note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Robert Raisler. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to his family. Bernard Steinweg, President Heidi Klein, Secretary
      