
        BOSTICK-Juanita Diane Age 68, of NYC, died on July 14, 1999, at her Tudor City residence. Funeral services will be on Friday, July 23, at 10 AM, at Ridout's Elmwood Chapel in Birmingham, AL, with Dr. R. Maurice Boyd of the City Church of New York, officiating, with burial at Elmwood Cemetery. Visitation will be at Ridout Chapel, Thursday, 5-7 PM. A ''Memorial Celebration'' is planned in NYC on August 19. For details call 212632-1308. Diane is survived by three brothers. Educated in Birmingham school system, Diane received her BS degree in home economics from the University of Alabama and did graduate study at NYU School of Retailing. After serving as Field Secretary for Phi Mu, she began her career with Avondale Mills in 1953 and climbed the corporate ladder from Designer in Sylacauga, AL, to Stylist, then Assistant VP in NYC, before being promoted to VP for Fabric Design in 1978, breaking the glass ceiling before others even dreamed of doing it and serving as an inspiration and advocate for career women. Diane was featured in articles in Women's Wear Daily, Daily News Record, Birmingham News and several textbooks. She served on the Home Economics Advisory Board at Auburn University, the Advisory Committee of the Institute for Women Executives at UA; and spoke to many college classes and groups. She was a member of: Women's Wear Committee Color Association of the US; the Fashion Group, Inc, serving on the Board of Governors and numerous committees; the NY Fashion Designers; International Needlepoint Guild; and Who's Who in American Women. Diane was a founding member of the City Church of New York; worked with the Talbot Perkins Children's Services; chaired a Benefit Concert for Project Hope; was active in Tudor City Association; was a member of the DAR and UDC. The University of Alabama was Diane's first love and she served it faithfully, and was honored by the University in return. She was Regional VP of the National Alumni Association; received the ''Distinguished Alumna Award''; served on the Advisory Board of the Women's Athletic Program; was co-founder of The Greater NY Alumni Association, one of the strongest and most active in the nation. This chapter inducted Diane into its ''Hall of Fame'' and elected her ''Honorary President'' for life and established the J. Diane Bostick Endowed Scholarship Fund for clothing, textiles, and interior design students. The College of Human Enviromental Sciences twice presented Diane with The Agnes Ellen Harris Distinguished Alumnus Award, its highest honor, once for career accomplishments and once for her love and commitment to the College. Memorials may be made to the J. Diane Bostick Scholarship Fund, c/o The University of Alabama, Box 870158, University, AL 35487.
      