
        LAUB-Emanuel Dear husband of Marilyn. Devoted father of Barry, Jeffrey, Robert and (Stephanie). Cherished grand father of Justin, Jodi, Jeremy and Jillian. Fond brother of Harold. Manny was a member of Local 338 RWDSU, AFL-CIO since 1948 and President since 1976. Services Sunday, 10 AM at ''Boulevard-Riverside Chapels,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, L.I.
        LAUB-Emanuel. The officers, members and staff of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union mourn the loss of Emanuel Laub, who served as a vice president of our union and as President of RWDSU Local 338. Manny Laub dedicated his life to the cause of working people. He was a tireless fighter in the struggle to bring decent wages, benefits and working conditions to supermarket workers throughout New York. The lives of tens of thousands of RWDSU members and their families were made better by his hard work and dedication. His contribution, commitment, loyalty and friendship will never be forgotten. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his wife Marilyn, his sons Barry, Jeff and Robert and his grandchildren. Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, UFCW, AFL-CIO, CLC Stuart Appelbaum, President Charlie Hall, Sr., Secretary-Treasurer Lenore Miller, President Emeritus
        LAUB-Emanuel. The officers, Executive Board, and staff of Retail Wholesale Department Store Union Local 338 regret to announce the passing of our beloved president Emanuel Laub. President Laub has been a member of Local 338 RWDSU since 1948, and has served as its president since 1976. President Laub dedicated his life to Local 338 & its members, he served as a Vice President of the RWDSU & as a Vice President of the United Food and Commercial Workers. His passing is mourned by all whose life he touched. President Laub was a fighter for the rights of the working man and ardent believer in the labor movement and its responsibility to the working men and women it serves. The 14,000 members of Local 338 RWDSU thank him for his service and dedication and offer their condolences to his beloved wife Marilyn and his family. Local 338 RWDSU
      