
        MacBRIDE - Kenneth Rhoades Broadcaster, died on June 29th, 1999 at age 58. His special wit, talents, dedication and responsibility will be remembered and missed by all who encountered him. Ken is survived by his wife, Diana, of Ramsey, NJ; his mother, Marie, of Laguna Hills, CA.; his sisters Nancy Plamann of La Canada, CA, and Holly Ohlson of Lennox Head, Australia; his nieces Kendall Plamann of San Francisco, CA, Ashley Ohlson of Lennox Head, Australia, and Heather Berthold of Washington, DC; his nephews Chris Plamann of Okinawa, Japan, Nicholas Ohlson of Lennox Head, Australia, and Sebastian MacBride of Landing, NJ. Alumnus of Northwestern University and Senior Operations Specialist, Ken worked for NBC Network Television in New York, NY for 35 years. He recently founded and served as CEO for MacBride Consultants, Inc. He was a student of Japanese language and culture, and a member of the Apple Developers Group. A cherished dad, loved by his children, Ken's strength of character and leadership created a great base of knowledge and resources on which to build their futures. He was loved and will be remembered by son Beau and his wife, Honora Griffin MacBride, of Ramsey, NJ, and their children, Brendan, Kelly and James who called him Grand Dad Ken; son Jeffrey and his wife, Miwa Suzuguchi MacBride of Obu, Japan, and their daughter, Anna who called him Kenji; and daughter Samantha MacBride Pellettere and her husband, Scott, of Paterson, NJ, and Scott's son Anthony who called him Pop Ken. A Memorial Service will be held at the Van Emburgh-Sneider Funeral Home, 109 Darlington Avenue in Ramsey at 8:00 PM on July 5th. The family will receive friends on Monday from 2-4 and 7-9. Memorial donations to the following are welcomed by the family: Cabrini Hospice, Cabrini Medical Center, 227 East 19th Street, NY, NY 10003; Ramsey Swim Team, c/o Ramsey Municipal Building, 33 North Central Avenue, Ramsey, NJ 07446; and Ramsey High School Japanese Exchange Program, 240 East Main Street, Ramsey, NJ 07446.
      