
        BERGER-Leo V., Capt. We mourn the passing of a most cherished member of our Boys Town Jerusalem extended family. Capt. Leo V. Berger was affectionately known to us as the Captain of the Boys Town ''Ship.'' As an immigrant youth raised in an orphanage, he identified heart and soul with the students of Boys Town''his'' boys-who trace their roots to over 40 countries of origin. Capt. Berger, a respected Vice President of the Boys Town Jerusalem Foundation of America, took special delight in dedicating The Joseph and Aranka Berger Residence Hall in memory of his parents, providing a healthy and nurturing home-away-from-home environment for disadvantaged Israeli youth. The Capt. Leo V. and Arvilla Berger Scholarship Endowment enables Boys Town to fulfill its mission of turning young boys from limited backgrounds into young men with limitless futures. Capt. Berger was a true humanitarian whose magnanimous support of so many deserving causes will endure as a legacy and inspiration. We extend heartfelt condolences to Leo's family and pray that our beloved Captain's memory will be a source of eternal blessing. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Exec VP
        BERGER-Leo. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Captain Leo Berger, a dedicated and generous supporter of the League. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Arvilla and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        BERGER-Leo V., Captain. The officers and employees of The Apex Group of Companies mourn the passing of our founder, Capt. Leo V. Berger. His guidance and leadership changed the face of the shipping industry forever. We will miss him dearly. Apex Marine Ship Management Company, LLC
        BERGER-Leo V. We mourn the loss of our valued client who brought dignity and honor to us all. The Partners, Associates and and Staff of Gallet Dreyer & Berkey LLP
        BERGER-Leo V., Captain. To our favorite uncle. We have been blessed to be part of your family. Leslie, Cliff, Jenna & Brandon Spelke
        BERGER-Leo V., Captain. His country, his family and many, many people have lost a great man. Judy & Henry Spelke
      