
        RAISLER-Robert K. Died peacefully on July 12 at his home in New York, surrounded by his children and grandchildren. He was the son of the late Samuel and Belle Raisler of New York City, brother of the late Harold Raisler and for more than 42 years, the adoring husband of the late Dolly Wolfson Raisler (who pre-deceased him by four weeks), the father of Gordon, Steven and Lynn Jacobson and grandfather to Michael, Anthony and Joe Jacobson and Joe's finacee Jordana Matthews. As longtime President and Chairman of Raisler Corporation, a family controlled, New York based Mechanical Contracting firm founded in 1899 by his father Samuel. Robert Raisler was a strong and respected Building Trades Industry advocate, and a member of many industry and professional associations and boards. Following his World War II service in the Pacific theater as a Naval Officer and Chief of aircraft maintenance on the aircraft carrier US Boxer, he maintained a life long association with the Navy as a reserve Officer, ultimately holding the rank of Lt. Commander, Ret. Widely regarded as a true ''gentleman'', Robert Raisler was President of the University of Pennsylvania's Class of 1926, former President of the Congregation Shaaray Tefila in New York City and a philanthropist well known to many charitable and educational institutions. Services will be held at Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 East 79 Street (at 2nd Avenue) on Thursday, July 15, 1999 at 11:30AM. In lieu of flowers, the family request that donations be made to the Raisler Fund at the University of Pennsylvania's School of Engineering. The Engineering School's alumni office may be contacted at (215) 898-6564.
        RAISLER-Robert K. Love and warmest sympathy to Gordon, Steven and Lynn, Joe and Jordana, Anthony and Michael. Loving and beloved husband of our late aunt, Dolly, Bob's warmth and kindness, nobility of spirit and generosity to so many causes and people will remain in the hearts of Brian, Neil and Valerie Suslak, Pamela Ferraioli, Lauren and Adele Suslak.
        RAISLER-Robert K. The City Athletic Club mourns the passing of Robert Raisler, a member since 1926, and extends heartfelt condolences to his family. City Athletic Club Board of Governors
        RAISLER-Robert. With great sorrow we mourn the passing of our uncle. May he rest in peace with his beloved Dolly. Joan, Stuart, Scott, Adam, David, Evan, Max, Gerald, Barbara, Bryman, Allen, and Susan
      