
        PETTY-Richard Servis, 86. Died on June 26, 1999, at Blue Hill, ME. He was born August 2, 1912, in Hampton, NJ, the son of Robert D. and Florence (Servis) Petty. He was educated at Lehigh University and New York Law School. Shortly before graduating from law school in 1937, he married Marcille Littlefield. While still attending law school, Mr. Petty worked for a firm specializing in public finance and continued in that field after graduation. Following service in the U.S. Navy in World War II, Mr. Petty served as counsel in charge of the Navy Department's New York legal office and then put his public finance expertise to work as a partner in the firm of Mitchell, Petty and Schetterly. That firm ''handled the financing of the Pennsylvania Turnpike, the Indiana Turnpike and perhaps twothirds of the turnpikes in the country'' during the highway building boom of the 1950s, Mr. Petty estimated. The firm also handled large-scale bond issues for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and many of its municipalities. Mitchell, Petty and Schetterly was merged into the firm of Brown & Wood in 1979 and Mr. Petty retired as a senior member of that firm in 1985. Recently, Mr. Petty became a member of New York Law School's 21st Century Societythose alumni who provided for the law school in their wills. Mr. Petty's will includes a bequest that would create the Robert D. Petty Scholarship Fund in honor of his late father, a former Dean and founding father of New York Law School. Mr. Petty was motivated to help future law school students by sharing memories of his own Depression-era experience. ''I had a hell of a time financially at the Law School, as did many of my classmates.'' He is survived by one son, Kimball Petty, of Little Deer Isle, ME; one daughter, Gail P. Clarkin, of Coronado, CA; and grandchildren Marci Rose and Dustin Rose. At Mr. Petty's request, gifts in his memory may be made to the Robert D. Petty Scholarship Fund in care of Diana Leo, New York Law School Office of Development, 57 Worth Street, New York, New York 10013. For more information, contact the Healey Funeral Home, South Street, Blue Hill, ME.
      