
        GUGGENHEIMER - Randolph. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Randolph Guggenheimer, a cherished friend and devoted humanitarian who fostered advances in medical and geriatric care through his extraordinary generosity. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Elinor, a prominent leader in our community who served as chair of the Women's Division and as an officer of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, a predecessor of UJA-Federation of New York. We also offer our deepest sympathies to Mr. Guggenheimer's son, Randolph, Jr. and daughter-in-law, Jane; his son, Charles; his grandchildren; and his great-grandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        GUGGENHEIMER - Randolph. The Board of Directors and Staff of North General Hospital express our deep sympathies to the family of one of our founders and Chairman Emeritus, Randolph Guggenheimer. At a time when many sought to abandon healthcare services in Harlem, Randy, in partnership with his loving wife and the late Eugene L. McCabe, committed his life to the establishment of a 200-bed voluntary hospital to serve the residents of Harlem. North General will always stand as a living memorial to Randy. Livingston S. Francis, Chairman, Board of Trustees, North General Hospital Dr. Harold P. Freeman, President & CEO Tom Long, Executive Vice President & COO
        GUGGENHEIMER - Randolph. The Board, staff, and members of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged (JSA) note with deep sorrow the passing of the husband and life partner of our beloved and esteemed founding Trustee, Elinor Guggenheimer. For 67 years, Randy and Elly enjoyed a loving partnership. Publicly they provided exemplary leadership to a myriad of philanthropic, civic, political, and social causes. Our hearts go out to Elly in her grief. May she and her family be comforted by Randy's memory. Marilyn Friedman, President Steven M. Jacobson, Chair David J. Stern, Executive VP
        GUGGENHEIMER - Randolph. Age 91. Beloved husband of Elinor C. Loving father of Charles, Randolph, Jr. and Jane. Grandfather of Randolph III, Elizabeth, Steven, Julia, Lynn G. and Jonathan Horowitch, and six great-grandchildren. Interment private. Memorial service Thursday, July 8th, 11AM at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65 Street. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions to: North General Hospital or the charity of your choice.
        GUGGENHEIMER-Randolph. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-EL of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Randolph Guggenheimer. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        GUGGENHEIMER - Randolph. The Women's Forum records with sorrow the passing of our honorary member, Randolph Guggenheimer, treasured husband and partner of our beloved founder, Elly. His courtly grace and devotion to family will always be an inspiration. The Forum extends deepest sympathy to Elly and their sons, and their entire family. Gail Blanke, President
        GUGGENHEIMER-Randolph. A true gentleman, a great community leader, and a quintessential New Yorker is gone. Our deepest sympathy to our beloved Elly and all four generations of the Guggenheimer family. The Board of Overseers and staff of the Brookdale Center on Aging of Hunter College.
        GUGGENHEIMER - Randolph. The Board of Trustees and the staff of the Community Service Society extend their sincerest condolences to Elinor C. Guggenheimer, an Honorary Life Trustee of the Society, and her family, at the death of her husband Randolph Guggenheimer.
        GUGGENHEIMER - Randolph. The Board and membership of the New York Women's Agenda mourns the passing of Randolph Guggenheimer and offers deepest sympathy to Elinor Guggenheimer, our founder, and the entire Guggenheimer family.
      