
        WILSHIRE-Robert Vidal (The Very Reverend). Retired Dean of The Cathedral of the Incarnation, Garden City, NY. Born 1937 in New Castle, N.S.W., Australia the son of Alan Gilbert Wilshire and Hilary Mary Havelock, Dean Wilshire died peacefully July 22nd at his home in Wilmington, NC after a brief battle with cancer. Priest, pastor, preacher and teacher, Dean Wilshire served as Dean of the Cathedral for twenty years until his retirement in 1999. He previously had served nine years as Rector of St. Ann's, Sayville, NY. Before emigrating to the United States for graduate studies in 1967, he served in Australia at several parishes and at The Southport School as its Chaplain. An honors graduate of St. Francis Theological College, Brisbane, he received a Master of Divinity in 1967 and a Master of Sacred Theology in 1968 from The General Theological Seminary, NY, NY. In addition to his pastoral duties as the Cathedral's Dean, he served for over twenty years as Registrar and Professor of Theology of George Mercer Jr. Memorial School of Theology in Garden City. The Dean was a member of the Board of Directors of Episcopal Health Services, Inc., the health care arm of the Diocese of Long Island, from 1979 to 1999. He also served the Episcopal Church as a Deputy to three General Conventions and the Diocese of Long Island on numerous commissions and committees. He is survived by his brother, Frederick Wilshire, and sisters, Jane Rowell and Alison Hurditch, a nephew and three nieces, all in Australia, by a nephew, Andrew F. Wilshire of Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, NY, and by all the countless parishioners, friends and colleagues who have been nourished and enriched by him. A Eucharist and Burial Office celebrating his devoted and caring ministry will be held at The Cathedral of the Incarnation on Wednesday, July 28th, at 11 A.M., with interment to follow at St. Ann's Cemetery, Sayville, NY. Dean Wilshire has requested that any remembrances be made to the Memorial and Endowment Fund of The Cathedral of the Incarnation.
      