
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Board of Directors and staff of the Consortium for Worker Education mourn the passing of a great friend to the working people of New York, John F. Kennedy Jr., his wife Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, and his sister-in-law Lauren G. Bessette. John Kennedy Jr. worked closely with the Consortium and its member unions, the CSEA, Health Care Local 1199, and District Council 1707 to establish the Kennedy Fellows Program at the City University of New York. This program provides advanced skills for union members specializing in the developmentally disabled. Throughout the process of developing this prpogram, he exhibited dedication, a thorough understanding of the needs of all workers, and a profound respect for all those he encountered. Intern, his commitment earned the respect of those he met and helped. His legacy, through the Kennedy Fellows Program, will continue to bring greater recognition to the outstanding contribution of our direct care union members by enhancing their skills in delivering services to individuals with developmental disabilities. Barry Feinstein, Chairman Jay Mazur, President Irwin Polishook, Treasurer Edward Malloy, Secretary Vice Presidents: Jack Caffey, James Conigliaro, Josephine LeBeau, Dennis Rivera, Barry Liebowitz, M.D., Anthony Rumore, Damaso Seda, Peter Ward, Philip Wheeler Joseph McDermott, Exec Director
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board and Members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note the apparent tragic loss of John F. Kennedy Jr., Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and Lauren Bessette. Ten years ago, John Kennedy realized the importance of direct care workers and their effect on the quality of life for persons with disabilities. To further the education of direct care workers, enhance their skills and create greater public awareness of the direct care profession, he created the Kennedy Fellows Program. UCP/NYC is proud to partner with the Reaching Up Foundation and CUNY to promote John Kennedy's vision. The many individuals at UCP/NYC who have benefited from these efforts join us in extending our heartfelt condolences to the Kennedy and Bessette families. Leo Hausman, Chairman Edward R. Matthews, Executive Director United Cerebral Palsy of NYC, Inc.
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Executive Council, staff and members of 1199 extend profound condolences to the Kennedy and Bessette families for the loss of their beloved children John Kennedy, Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and Lauren Bessette. John Kennedy was often here with us at 1199 Headquarters. He was a great friend of our Union and of all healthcare workers. Through his Reaching Up project, we had accomplished much together and looked forward to much more. He spent countless hours over the past decade pursuing a better life for the disabled and the workers who care for them. We will miss this caring, devoted, intelligent man who contributed so much. His tragic death is a loss for all of us. Dennis Rivera, President Phyllis Harris, Secretary Treasurer 1199 National Health & Human Service Employees Union/SEIU, AFL-CIO
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. In a very personal way, John F. Kennedy Jr. provided encouragement and support for students of the Labor Education & Advancement Project (LEAP) of Queens College through the Kennedy Fellows program. Over the past eight years, he specifically gave grants towards babysitting fees or carfare or whatever it took so that caretakers for the disabled could go back to school. This assistance gave them an extra edge and made them take themselves seriously as students. JFK Jr. gave of himself directly, too, attending annual conventions of Kennedy Fellows to tell them of the high value of the work they were doing. His humanity was an inspiration to so many, who will now carry on his work and ideals. President Allen Lee Sessoms the LEAP Program and the entire Queens College community
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Kennedy Fellows, the Board of Directors and all of the many people involved with Reaching Up Inc. mourn the loss of our founder, leader and dear friend, John F. Kennedy Jr. John acted intelligently, compassionately and decisively to improve education and career advancement for thousands of workers giving care to people challenged by disability or illness. He was generous with his time and with his spirit. He made all of us feel very special. We will miss him very, very much. As we carry on his work, he will always live in our hearts. We would like to express our deepest sympathies to the Kennedy family and to the family of Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and Lauren Bessette. Jeffrey A. Sachs, Vice President William Ebenstein, Executive Dir.
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Board of Directors, the Advisory Board and the Staff of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation extend their most heartfelt condolences to the families of Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, John F. Kennedy Jr. and Lauren Bessette on their presumed deaths. We also send our sincere thoughts to John's colleagues and associates at George magazine and Hachette Filipacchi Publications who have been loyal supporters of the work of the Foundation. John and Carolyn were just beginning to come into their own and we admired them so much. This is an unexpectedly premature tragedy and a great loss to what they would have both become. Evelyn Lauder, President Deborah Krulewitch, Treasurer Susan Hirschhorn, Exc. Dir
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. President Ricardo R. Fernandez, Provost Rosanne Wille, Dean Michael Paull, and the entire Lehman College community express their condolences to the family of John F. Kennedy Jr. For nearly 10 years, John Kennedy was a visionary in the field of work-force education. He supported in every way the educational and career advancment of direct-care workers who enrolled in Lehman College. The organization he established, ''Reaching Up,'' funded programs that enhanced the skills of workers in home care, developmental disabilities, and psychiatric rehabilitation. His support not only benefitted the individuals, it helped turn their jobs into professions.
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The City College of New York mourns the passing of John F. Kennedy Jr., his wife Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and her sister Lauren Bessette. Mr. Kennedy was a friend of public higher education and supported the Kennedy Fellows at several CUNY campuses, including City College's Center for Worker Education. He was deeply committed to helping disadvantaged workers help the disabled. On behalf of the CCNY community I wish to extend my condolences to both families for their tragic losses. Yolanda T. Moses, President The City College of New York/ CUNY
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. The Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of John F. Kennedy Jr., his wife Carolyn Bessette Kennedy and his sister-in-law Lauren Bessette. John, a patron of the arts, was a good friend and supporter of the Museum for which we are deeply grateful. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his sister, Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, and the Kennedy and Bessette families. Leonard L. Lauder, Chairman Joel S. Ehrenkranz, President Maxwell L. Anderson, Director
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. We mourn the loss of John F. Kennedy, Jr., his beloved wife Carolyn and her sister Lauren Bessette. John's leadership as a fellow Director of The Kennedy Library and his dedicated public service will be an inspirational legacy. We extend our deep personal condolences to our dear friend Senator Edward M. Kennedy and the entire Kennedy and Bessette families. Milton and Elma Gilbert
        KENNEDY-John F. Jr. His former colleagues in the Manhattan District Attorney's office mourn the loss of a dear friend and extend our heartfelt sympathies to his family and the Bessette family. Robert M. Morgenthau, District Attorney
      