
        GROSS-Ludwik, M.D. On July 19, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy. Devoted father of Augusta Gross, loving father-in-law of Leslie B. Samuels, dear brother of Felix Gross, loving uncle and cherished by family and friends. Funeral services Thursday, July 22, 12:15PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his memory to a worthy cause benefiting research on cancer or AIDS.
        GROSS - Ludwik, M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, Ludwik Gross, M.D., Research Professor Emeritus in the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine, who was associated with Mount Sinai for nearly three decades. Born in Poland, Dr. Gross earned his medical degree in 1929 from the Iagellon University Medical School in Krakow, and following post-graduate hospital training, he began a long and distinguished research career at the Pasteur Institute in Paris. He joined the Institute for Medical Research at Christ Hospital in Cincinnati in 1941, then served with U.S. military medical units in World War II. Following the war, he resumed his research at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, then, the Bronx Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Dr. Gross was internationally renowned for pioneering work that opened the field of investigation of viruses as a possible cause of human cancers, and his textbook, ''Oncogenic Viruses'' became a standard reference work for all investigators in that field. A Fellow of the American College of Physicians, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the International Society of Hematology, and the New York Academy of Sciences, Dr. Gross was honored with numerous awards, including the WHO United Nations Prize for Cancer Research, the Pasteur Intititute's Silver Medal, and he was nominated for the Nobel Prize. He will be rememberd fondly both for his achievement and his devotion. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Helene L. Kaplan, Chair, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chair, Mount Sinai NYU Health John W. Rowe, M.D., President, Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Mount Sinai School of Medicine
      