
        HURBAUGH - Patricia Roper. 1927-1999. Mrs. Robert G. Hurbaugh (Patricia Roper) of Rye, NY and Jupiter, FL, a leader in philanthropic and charitable work, died of pulmonary and cardiac complications on Saturday, July 10, 1999, at Westchester Country Club in Rye. She was 72. Mrs. Hurbaugh chaired major charity events in Palm Beach, including the 1984 Heart Ball. Her efforts raised significant funding for national organizations. Her activities benefited causes that included the Salvation Army, Boys Clubs, American Cancer Society, and St. Mary's/Good Samaritan Hospitals in Florida. She is a past Board member of the Palm Beach Roundtable and a Benefactor of the Kravis Center for the Performing Arts in West Palm Beach. Mrs. Hurbaugh was born June 16, 1927 in Hobart, Indiana, the daughter of Lee and Edith Busse Roper. She was the first speech and hearing therapy graduate from the University of Indiana at Bloomington where she was a member of Alpha Omicron Sorority. On October 10, 1953 she married Robert G. Hurbaugh, whom she had met at the University of Indiana. Mrs. Hurbaugh lived in Rye, NY for the past 25 years. She has also had a home in Jupiter, FL, for the past nine years and was a resident of Palm Beach for many years prior. She was a longtime member of St. Matthew's Lutheran Church in White Plains, NY. Other affiliations included the Metropolitan Club of New York City, Westchester Country Club, Rye, NY, Jupiter Hills Golf Club, Tequesta, FL, The Beach Club of Palm Beach, FL, Turtle Creek Country Club and the PGA National Golf Club in Florida. Mrs. Hurbaugh will be remembered for her universal friendliness, extending her warm attentiveness to all she encountered from store clerks to royalty. She was an extroverted humanitarian with an irrepressible wit. She took great joy in life, embracing it with exuberance. She delighted in travel and entertaining, undertaking both with distinctive flair. She enjoyed golf and bridge, playing both frequently and well throughout her life. Most of all she was a loving, devoted, and attentive wife, mother and grandmother. She is survived by her husband of 45 years, Robert G. Hurbaugh, her daughters Lee Ann Alderton and Lisa Jo Hurbaugh, her son, William R. Hurbaugh, her son-in-law Jeffrey Alderton, five grandchildren, Taylor and Bradford Alderton and Ashley, Finley and Clayton Ahearn. Calling hours are Tuesday, July 13, from 2-4 PM and 7-9 PM at William H. Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Post Road in Rye, NY. The funeral is Wednesday, July 14, at 11 AM at St. Matthew's Lutheran Church, corner of Mamaroneck and Carhart Avenues in White Plains. Interment will follow on Friday, July 16, at 11 AM at Riverside Cemetery, Tequesta, FL. Friends may send memorial donations to American Heart Association, Palm Beach Chapter, Palm Beach, Florida.
      