
        BERGER-Leo V. A giant has fallen. Esteemed client, mentor and good friend, Leo epitomized the ''Horatio Alger'' success story. An immigrant from Hungary, raised in an orphanage, Leo grew to become the largest private owner of U.S. flag ocean-going vessels in the world. A graduate of Cornell Law School and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, Leo was a man of towering and creative intellect who left a mark in the shipping business few have been able to even approach. Fiercely proud of his Jewish heritage and a man of enormous charity, Leo gave for the ''right'' reasons, not merely for honor and awards. A devoted and loving husband, brother, uncle and great uncle, and a friend of utmost loyalty. Deepest condolences to Arvi, Martin, Eva, Fred, Judy, Victor, Phyllis, Capt. John and the members of the extended Berger and Sepe families. May his memory be blessed for eternity. Harvey Schwartz, Esq. Gallet Dreyer & Berkey LLP
        BERGER-Leo V. The Cornell Law School community joins us in honoring with great pride and respect Captain Leo V. Berger, a distinguished graduate, professional, entrepreneur, loyal alumnus, and Foremost Benefactor. A great friend and champion of the School, Leo endowed the International Legal Studies Program. Through their commitment and ongoing involvement on the Law School Advisory Council, Leo and his wife Arvilla were deeply engaged in the life of Cornell, and he will be greatly missed. May his family be comforted by the outstanding legacy left by his many acts of kindness and generosity. Lee E. Teitelbaum Russell K. Osgood Peter W. Martin Roger C. Cramton W. Ray Forrester Gray Thoron Deans, Cornell Law School John J. Barcelo, III Director, Berger International Legal Studies
        BERGER-Leo, Captain. Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Roslyn, NY, mourns the loss of its devoted and generous member. Capt. Berger achieved almost legendary status in our Congregation through his dedication to educating our youth, to our new Nursery School, to helping Soviet Jewry reach Israel and to annually aiding us in maintaining our Synagogue. A true gentleman. His visits to our Congregation were memorable events. May God strengthen his wive Arvilla and the whole family with the strong memory of a good man. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster Laurence A. Feldman, President
        BERGER-Leo V. The Membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and member, Leo V. Berger and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Arvilla and their family. Boca Rio Golf Club, Ira J. Gelb, M.D. Pres
        BERGER-Leo V. We mourn the loss of our valued client who bought dignity and honor to us all. The Partners, Associates and and Staff of Gallet Dreyer & Berkey LLP
      