
        COHEN-Eugene J., M.D. Died at home on July 16, 1999 at the age of 87. Devoted husband of the late Regina Gluck Cohen, M.D., for 58 years. Loving brother of Lorraine Silberthau. Brother-in-law of Sylvia & Irwin Grossman & Dorothy Margolin. Dear uncle of many nieces & nephews. Services Sunday, 1:00 PM at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels,'' 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. In lieu of flowers memorial gifts to the Regina Gluck, M.D. Memorial Fund, North Shore University Hospital, Manhasset, New York 11030.
        COHEN-Eugene. The faculty and staff of The Division of Endocrinology and The Dept. of Medicine of Weill Medical College of Cornell University are saddened by the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague, Dr. Eugene Cohen, a world-renowned endocrinologist. Dr. Cohen began his illustrious career at Cornell on January 1, 1946 as an instructor in medicine and assistant physician. He was a clinical professor of medicine and attending physician at the hospital and the Medical College for many years prior to his retirement on November 30, 1998. A pioneering clinical endocrinologist, teacher and mentor whose insistance that medicine was an art as well as a science influenced generations of medical students, residents and physicians at New York Hospital Cornell Medical College and the academic endocrine community. He recognized the importance of listening to patients and treated patients from all walks of life with utmost and equal respect from the humble to the high (including President John. F. Kennedy). A leader in evaluating female gonadal function he recognized early on the importance of estrogen replacement therapy in women's health. His patient's faith and devotion to him were repeatly evidenced by their support of endocrinology at the Medical College. He also incouraged, sponsored and personally supported many research projects. He was an ardent and enthusiastic gardener, active in dalhia and orchid societies. He was a dear friend and colleague whose keen mind, sensitivity and generosity will be sorely missed. For these and many other qualities he will always be remembered. His Friends and Colleagues
      