
        SCHMIDT-Nancy Montgomery. Died August 10, 1999, beloved wife of Benno C. Schmidt, mother of Ruth, Stephen, and James Fleischmann, stepmother of Benno, Jr., Ralph, William, and John Schmidt. Loving grandmother of fifteen grandchildren and great grandmother of one. She will be missedby all who experienced her unique and loving kindness. A funeral service will be held on Friday, August 13, 1999 at 11 A.M. at Saint James' Church, 71st Street and Madison Avenue, NYC. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital.
        SCHMIDT-Mrs. Benno C (Nancy). It is with great sadness that The Boards of Overseers and Managers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourn the death of Nancy Schmidt, wife of our Honorary Co-Chairman, Benno C. Schmidt. She was a constant presence at Memorial through her many years of volunteer work and her utter devotion to the Art Committee of The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering. Mrs. Schmidt, with her great friends, Mrs. Guy G. Rutherfurd, and the late Mary French Rockefeller, personally oversaw the hanging of pictures and paintings throughout Memorial Sloan-Kettering. Her smile and energy and her commitment to our patients, have long been an inspiration. With her husband, she was a major contributor to the development of our Center. She will be greatly missed. We extend our condolences to her family. Laurance S. Rockefeller, Honorary Co-Chairman James D. Robinson III, Honorary Co-Chairman Douglas A. Warner III, Chairman H. Virgil Sherrill, Vice Chairman Richard L. Gelb, Vice Chairman Paul A. Marks, MD President Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        SCHMIDT-Nancy (Mrs. Benno C.). The Society of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center will miss our good friend and fellow Board member, Nancy Schmidt. She was a long-standing member of the Art Committee who cared deeply about the patients at Memorial Sloan-Kettering. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her family, especially to our Board member Ms. Ruth G. Fleischmann. The Society will not be the same without her enthusiasm and sparkling personality. Mrs. Derek L. Limbocker, President The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
      