
        RESSNER-Michael. Of Hewlett Neck, N.Y, August 4th. Dearest, devoted sweetheart and husband of Natalie (Godnick). Adoring father and special friend to John Walter Ressner and dear father-in-law of Laura Bemben. Loving brotherin-law of Enid and Bud Van Raalte, Bob Godnick. Cherished uncle of Dr. Polly Van Raalte, Susan and Dr. Elliott Hershman; fun loving grand uncle to Todd and Danny Hershman. Extraordinarily gifted painter and musician. Graduate of Pratt Institute. Board of Directors American Institute of Architects, New York Chapter, Associate Member and winner of their Harry B. Rutkins Memorial Award for Service to the Profession. Creator of the Rocky Jones, Space Ranger TV and Comic Book series. Former Deputy Mayor, trustee, past and present Road Commissioner of the Village of Hewlett Neck. Founder and President of the Barr Road Civic Association, he was instrumental in saving 165 acres of Borman's Island in Hewlett Bay at the foot of Barr Road, as a wildlife sanctuary in perpetuity. Member of the Board of Directors, Easter Seals of New York. Marketing Director, Ysrael A. Seinuk, P.C. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory to the New York Foundation for Architecture (AIA NY Chapter), 200 Lexington Avenue, NY, NY 10016, would be appreciated, as an annual prize will be established in his name. Funeral services Sunday, August 8, 11AM Beth Moses Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY. Reception at home immediately following. ''This above all: to thine own self be true. And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man.''
        RESSNER-Michael. The offices of Ysrael A. Seinuk, P.C. and The Cantor Seinuk Group, P.C. are deeply saddened by the passing away of their long-time employee, Michael Ressner, on August 4, 1999. Mike, an associate member of the American Institute of Architects, was the Director of Marketing of their New York-based structural engineering firms for nearly ten years. Their deepest sympathy is extended to the family of Michael Ressner on this great loss.
        RESSNER-Michael. Father, father-in-law, dear friend. You will always be remembered for your warmth, kindness, generosity and laughter. Loved, thought of and sorely missed. You will remain in our hearts forever. Your paint brush was put down too early. John Ressner and Laura Bemben
      