
        BULL-Joan. Mrs. Joan Bull lost her battle with cancer on August 13, 1999, at age 76. Joan was born on April 23, 1923, to Gertrude and William Schweitzer. She was raised in Hillside, NJ, and attended the Vail-Deane School and Wellesley College before moving to NYC. Joan began her committment to philanthropy in 1974 with a volunteer position behind the Information Desk at the American Museum of Natural History. She became one of the Museum's most devoted advocates. Working at the museum, she recognized problems she could help address for both the public and the staff. Her gifts to the Museum helped to fund foreign language floor maps, new drinking fountains, office equipment, and air conditioning units. In 1997, she made a gift to fund the Hayden Edition Zeiss Universarium MKIX projector for the Space Theater in the new Hayden Planetarium, which will open in the Spring of 2000. In recognition of her quarter century of dedicated volunteer service to the Museum and her generous support of so many important museum projects, Joan was inducted as a Trustee in 1997. Up until the last year of her life, she continued to work behind the Museum's Information Desks, dispensing maps and greeting visitors. In addition to the Museum of Natural History, Joan also generously supported the New York Presbyterian Hospital, Guiding Eyes for the Blind, Paralyzed Veterans of America, the American Foundation for the Blind, and the Red Cross. She became an involved supporter of the Merchant's House Museum on 4th Street and actively gave to other NYC cultural institutions. Joan was honored at the 1998 Philanthropy Day celebration of NY's finest philanthropists sponsored by the National Society of Fund Raising Executives. Joan is survived by her daughter Penelope, her grandson Christopher, and her brother Peter. Memorial contributions may be made to Guiding Eyes for the Blind, Yorktown Heights, NY, or to the charity of your choice.
        BULL-Joan. The Board of Trustees of the American Museum of Natural History expresses its profound sense of loss at the death of Joan Bull. A devoted volunteer at the Museum since 1974 and a member of the Museum's Board of Trustees since 1997, Joan distinguished herself as one of the Museum's most loyal and generous friends, giving special attention to improving the quality of the Museum experience for all of its visitors. Most recently, her support made possible the acquisition of the Zeiss MkIX projector for the new Hayden Planetarium of the Rose Center for Earth and Space, to open in early 2000. She was a founding member of the Museum's Patrons Circle and a co-chair of the Natural History Society. The Museum deeply appreciates the exceptional dedication of Joan's more than 25 years of service to the institution. To her daughter, Penelope, and the entire Bull family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. W001 Anne Sidamon-Eristoff Chairman, Board of Trustees Ellen V. Futter, President
        BULL-Joan. The Board of Directors and staff of the Merchant's House Museum are deeply saddened by the loss of Joan Bull, our Board member and friend. Her recognition of the Merchant's House and its place in history, and her extraordinary concern for its welfare evidenced over many years, have been key to the Museum's survival. Joan was a model of what a non-profit Board member should be: perceptive in her analyses, considerate in her suggestions, responsive to the ideas of others, and prepared always to do her fair share, or more when necessary, for the good of this Institution. Above all, she was a sympathetic and understanding friend to us, and she will be greatly missed. We are greatful for the example that she set for us, and extend to her daughter, Penelope, and her family, our heartfelt sympathies. Margaret Halsey Gardiner, Exective Director Merrikay S. Hall, Chairman
        BULL-Joan. To my loving sister who was always there for me. She was loyal and dependable as could be and I counted on her advice regularly. We shall miss you always. Love, Susan and Peter Schweitzer
      