
        LEVINE-Samuel. Beloved and devoted husband of Mildred. Loved and respected by his sons Larry, Peter and Martin, daughters-inlaw Gale, Leslie and Ellen. Adored grandfather of Estee, David, Cathie, Jeffrey, Rachel, Jesse and Joanne. He will be missed by us all. Services today 11:30AM at ''Boulevard - Riverside Chapels'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI.
        LEVINE-Samuel. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our dear friend, generous benefactor and Honorary Life Member of ADL's National Commission, Samuel Levine. Sam and his beloved wife Mildred, who have been among ADL's strongest supporters for decades, established the ADL Mildred and Sam Levine Institute to combat bigotry on campus. We will miss him and forever cherish his legacy of committment and caring. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Mildred, his sons Peter, Martin and Lawrence and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        LEVINE-Samuel. The Officers, Executive Board and the Members of The Association of Contracting Plumbers of The City of New York, Inc. mourn the passing of our member Samuel Levine of Par Plumbing Company, Inc. Samuel Levine was the father of our current president Lawrence J. Levine. Mr. Levine over 70 years made a valuable contribution to the New York City plumbing industry serving on numerous association committees and boards. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Mildred, his son Lawrence and his entire bereaved family. Association of Contracting Plumbers of The City of New York, Inc. John O'Donnell, Executive Vice President
        LEVINE-Samuel. With heavy hearts, the Anti-Defamation League Women's Division joins ADL Women's National Chair of Development Mildred Levine and her family in mourning the loss of their beloved husband, father and grandfather. Sam was a wonderful friend and supporter of Women's Division. We felt very honored to have benefited from his love, encouragement and support for Mildred and all she was involved with through the years. Babette Bandler, Chair
        LEVINE-Samuel. The Board of Governors and members of the Sea Wane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Samuel Levine. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Mildred and family. Michael Kerr President
        LEVINE-Samuel. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Samuel Levine, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Mildred, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, President
      