
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. The members, leadership and staff of B'nai B'rith International deeply mourn the passing of their esteemed past international president, Philip M. Klutznick. Klutznick was one of B'nai B'rith's and world Jewry's greatest leaders. From 1953 to 1959, he served as President of B'nai B'rith International, leading the organization's efforts to revitalize european Jewry and build Irsael in the years following the Holocaust. Earlier he was a co-founder of Aleph Zadik Aleph, now the boys' arm of the B'nai B'rith Youth Organization and served as its second national president in 1925-26. He later was a founder of the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations and served as chairman of the World Jewish Congress. He was appointed to high level positions by several presidents and served a term as U.S. Secretary of Commerce for Jimmy Carter, 1979-81. B'nai B'rith will honor and always remember the contributions made by him and his late wife Ethel Klutznick in their commitment to the well being of Jews around the world. We extend our sincerest condolences to the entire Klutznick family. Richard D. Heideman, President Dr. Sidney Clearfield, Exec VP
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Philip M. Klutznick. An honorary alumnus of Hebrew Union College and the recipient of the prestigious Founders' Medal, Mr. Klutznick's relationship with the College-Institute spanned five decades. Ardent Jew and zealous servant of humankind, his selfless devotion to the well-being of the whole house of Israel reflected the noblest traditions of our faith and our people. As a public servant, Mr. Klutznick had the vision to labor on behalf of developing nations in order to create stronger ties between the United States and countries throughout the world. His broad spirit of humanity enriched the lives of people everywhere. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. May they find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman President HUC-JIR Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Burton Lehman Chair, Board of Governors
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. American Friends of The Hebrew University, deeply mourn the passing of AFHU Honorary President and past National President Philip Klutznick. He was a dedicated supporter of both the Jewish community and American community, having held various government posts. He and his late wife Ethel were ardent supporters of scientific research at The Hebrew University and were instrumental in the development of many other programs including the Avraham Harman Institute for Contemporary Jewry, the Harry S. Truman Institute for the Advancement of Peace, and the Golda Meir Fellowship Fund. He also established the Sam and Helen Beber Visiting Chair in Clinical Psychology. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Klutznick family. American Friends of The Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President Fred S. Lafer, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. The Board of Directors and Staff of The New Israel Fund mourn the death of Philip M. Klutznick, a great leader of the Chicago community, our nation and the Jewish people. Condolences are extended to his daughter, Bettylu Saltzman, Board Member and Past Vice President of The New Israel Fund, the other Klutznick children, grandchildren and family members. Yoram Peri, President Norman Rosenberg, Executive Director Eliezer Yaari, Executive Director, Israel
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. The members, leadership and staff of the Philip & Ethel Klutznick B'nai B'rith National Jewish Museum in Washington, D.C. deeply mourn the passing of their distinguished friend and benefactor, Philip M. Klutznick. His generous support through the years enabled the museum to become the respected showcase for Judaica and Jewishrelated art that it is today. We extend our sincerest condolences to the entire Klutznick family. Phyllis Heideman, Chair Philip & Ethel Klutznick B'nai B'rith National Jewish Museum
        KLUTZNICK-Philip. The American Friends of Beth Hatefutsoth mourns the passing of our former president and devoted friend of the Museum of Jewish Diaspora in Tel Aviv. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire bereaved family. Steven Greenberg, President Sam E. Bloch, Chairman Gloria Golan, Director
        KLUTZNICK-Philip. As a founding patron, he enabled the training of ethnic peace workers through community development. Our deep sympathy to Thomas, Betylu, Robert, James, Samuel and the entire family of Philip and Ethel Klutznick of blessed memory. INTERNS FOR PEACE
      