
        FADEN-Barbara Zirinsky. Died peacefully after a battle with cancer on August 13, 1999 at age 50. Devoted daughter of Cynthia and Richard Zirinsky. Mother of Cynthia Deutsch-Eckes. Sister of Susan Zirinsky, Richard Zirinsky, Jr. and Jay Luber. Beloved niece of Natalie Brown, Daniel and Gilda Zirinksy. Loving aunt, cousin and friend to many. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Saturday August 14th, 7-9 PM. Services on Sunday, 11 AM at Temple EmanuEl, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. Interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Jacob Perlow Hospice, Beth Israel Hospital, New York, New York.
        FADEN-Barbara (Zirinsky). Our dearest niece and cousin, you will be in our hearts forever. We love you. Natalie, Jane and Jonathan Brown
        FADEN-Barbara. With great sadness, we extend our deepest sympathy to our treasured friends and clients of many years, Richard and Cynthia Zirinsky, on the passing of their beloved daughter. Our heartfelt thoughts are with you, Richard Jr. and Susan on your great loss and the ordeal which you have endured. Herrick, Feinstein LLP
        FADEN-Barbara (Zirinsky). The Hospital for Special Surgery Volunteer Department extends deepest sympathy to Natalie Brown on the untimely death of her niece, Barbara Faden. Volunteer & Staff of H.S.S.
        FADEN-Barbara Zirinsky. The officers and directors of the Mental Health Association of New York City mourn the passing of Barbara Zirinsky Faden, beloved daughter of Cynthia and Richard Zirinsky. Cynthia Zirinski, an esteemed Vice President of the Associatioin, has been a longtime advocate for people with mental illness. She and her husband, Richard, are widely respected for their dedication, generosity and service in the mental health field. We extend sincere and heartfelt condolences to them and their families for their untimely loss. Lawrence M. Chong, President Leonard M. Polisar Howard F. Sharfstein Co-Chairmen Giselle Stolper, Executive Director
      