
        DUTKA-Solomon. Beloved husband, father, stepfather, entrepreneur, scholar, scientist, philanthropist & friend. Mourned by his wife Joyce, his sons Jim and Michael, his stepsons David, Barry and Stephen, and their children Gaia, Max, and Navah, plus a legion of professional associates and loving friends. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Carlebach Shul-The Solomon Dutka Shabbas, 305 West 79th Street, New York City 10024, or Jacob Perlow Hospice, 1st Avenue and 16th Street, New York City 10003.
        DUTKA-Solomon. The staff of Audits & Surveys Worldwide mourns the passing of its distinguished founder and Chairman. We will sorely miss the man who for over 45 years headed the world class marketing research firm. He was an admired and respected leader who encouraged all who knew him to achieve excellence. While travelling the world on business, teaching, devoting time to charities and to his beloved family, he took the time to get to know his employees and to pass on praise for a job well done. His warmth, humor and wisdom will be greatly missed, but his legacy will live on in all of us who have worked with and been inspired by him. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. The Employees of Audits & Surveys Worldwide
        DUTKA-Solomon. United News and Media mourns the passing of the Chairman of the Board of Audits & Surveys Worldwide, a UNM subsidiary. Dr. Dutka was a leader in the field of physics and statistics and an innovator in market research methods and analysis. His inspiration, devotion, years of hard work and understanding of people built the company into a highly respected and successful global marketing research firm. The entire market research community will miss his tireless pursuit of improving the standards of research measurement and the quality of its results. We wish to express our sincere condolences to his entire family. United News and Media London, England
        DUTKA-Solomon. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Solomon Dutka, whose extraordinary generosity to Beth Israel's Singer Division will help further the clinical, research and educational programs of the institution for years to come. To his wife Joyce, the entire Dutka family and all who loved him, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew E. Sink, MD President and CEO Martin M. Feuer, MD Assoc Chair, Dept of Medicine
        DUTKA-Solomon. William Wordsworth wrote, in his Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey: ''The best portion of a good man's life-his little, nameless, unremembered acts of kindness and love.'' Daytop Governor over these three decades, Sol Dutka, blazed a path of community concern for this Town's most vulnerable children at Daytop Village. We mourn his passing and offer prayerful support to his Family. (Msgr.) William B. O'Brien President, Daytop Village, Inc.
        DUTKA-Solomon. The faculty and administration of Baruch College and the trustees of The Baruch College Fund mourn the passing of of our trustee, Sol Dutka. He was a great teacher, an inspired leader and a wonderful friend. Our sincerest condolences to his family. Lois S. Cronholm, Interim President Baruch College Irwin Engelman, President Baruch College Fund
      