
        POLAKOFF-Gail. Our whole family grieves at the untimely passing of our dear Rebbetzin and wife of our beloved Rabbi Dale Polakoff. We extend our deepest sympathy to Rabbi Dale Polakoff, Efraim, Yosef, Ilana, Yehudah, Ariella, Lenora Rosen and family. The Katz-Sadinoff family
        POLAKOFF-Gail. The Great Neck Synagogue deeply mourns the passing of our beloved Rebbitzen, devoted wife of our Mora D'Asra, spiritual leader, Rabbi Dale Polakoff. With her courage and indomitable spirit it was Gail who sustained us throughout her difficult illness. Her exemplary and selfless devotion to her children, her talent to appreciate and create beauty and her generosity of spirit has enriched our lives and endeared her to all of us. Our heartfelt condolences to Rabbi Polakoff and their children Ephraim, Yosef, Ilana, Yehuda and Ariella, also to her mother, Lenore Rosen, brothers Michael and Howard Rosen, sister Marcie Silverman and to the entire bereaved family. May they be comforted among the other mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus Howard J. Wolf, President
        POLAKOFF-Gail. With broken hearts, we join the Great Neck Synagogue in mourning the tragic loss of their beloved Rebbetzin, Gail Polakoff. Gail was cherished by the entire community for her ebullient love which embraced all, her devotion to Torah causes in Great Neck and beyond, and her serene clarity of vision which gave us courage even in these last terrible days. May Hashem comfort her husband, Rabbi Dale Polakoff, her children, Ephraim, Yosef, Ilana, Yehudah and Ariella, her mother, Lenora Rosen, her sister and her brothers among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Young Israel of Great Neck Yaacov Lerner, Rabbi Michael Frank, President
        POLAKOFF-Gail. The Officers, Directors, Staff and Students of the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach note with profound sorrow the sudden passing of Mrs. Gail Polakoff A''H, beloved wife of the esteemed Morah D'Asrah of the Great Neck Synagogue Rabbi Dale Polakoff and beloved mother of current SKA student Ilana. May the Almighty console the bereaved family, as well as the entire community, amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.
        POLAKOFF-Gail. We mourn the loss of Rebbitzen Gail Polakoff, beloved wife of our esteemed colleague, Rabbi Dale Polakoff, and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George Abrahams, President
      