
        DUTKA-Solomon. Beloved husband, father, stepfather, entrepreneur, scholar, scientist, philanthropist & friend. Mourned by his wife Joyce, his sons Jim and Michael, his stepsons David, Barry and Stephen, and their children Gaia, Max, and Navah, plus a legion of professional associates and loving friends. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Carlebach Shul-The Solomon Dutka Shabbas, 305 West 79th Street, New York City 10024, or Jacob Perlow Hospice, 1st Avenue and 16th Street, New York City 10003.
        DUTKA-Solomon. The staff of Audits & Surveys Worldwide mourns the passing of its distinguished founder and Chairman. We will sorely miss the man who for over 45 years headed the world class marketing research firm. He was an admired and respected leader who encouraged all who knew him to achieve excellence. While travelling the world on business, teaching, devoting time to charities and to his beloved family, he took the time to get to know his employees and to pass on praise for a job well done. His warmth, humor and wisdom will be greatly missed, but his legacy will live on in all of us who have worked with and been inspired by him. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. The Employees of Audits & Surveys Worldwide
        DUTKA-Solomon. United News and Media mourns the passing of the Chairman of the Board of Audits & Surveys Worldwide, a UNM subsidiary. Dr. Dutka was a leader in the field of physics and statistics and an innovator in market research methods and analysis. His inspiration, devotion, years of hard work and understanding of people built the company into a highly respected and successful global marketing research firm. The entire market research community will miss his tireless pursuit of improving the standards of research measurement and the quality of its results. We wish to express our sincere condolences to his entire family. United News and Media London, England
        DUTKA-Solomon. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Solomon Dutka, a generous supporter and devoted leader who was admired for his dedicated efforts toward strengthening the future of the Jewish community. He was a cherished friend who will be greatly missed. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Joyce; his sons, Jim and Michael; his stepsons, David, Barry, and Stephen, and the entire family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        DUTKA-Sol. Beloved friend and hero. Your presence will be sorely missed. Your love and generosity will carry on in the hearts of many. Our love and blessings to everyone in the family, and to all those who loved him. Jane and Devadatta
        DUTKA-Sol. A unique, thoughtful, gracious friend. An unforgettable ''mensch''. Thelma and Jim Plesser
      