
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc A. On August 30, 1999. Marcia, his one true love whom he cherished for 30 years. Adored father of Andy Sam and Jessie. Loving son of Irving. Dearest brother of Brian and Scot. Treasured brother-in-law of Phyllis and Neil Koenig. Devoted uncle of Rebecca and Gaby. Beloved son-in-law of Claire and Morty Rothberg. 25 years of devoted service to Cablevision Systems Corp. and the Dolan family. He will live within us, and his strength and spirit will guide us always. Contributions in lieu of flowers to The Lustgarten Pancreatic Cancer Research Foundation, P.O. Box 2141, NY, NY 10116-2141. Services Tuesday, 12:30PM, at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 West 68 St.
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc A. The Board of Directors, Residents and Staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale deeply mourn the untimely death of our dear friend Marc A. Lustgarten. A creative and visionary leader in the cable and broadcast fields, Marc gave generously of his time and wisdom in support of the dignity and enhanced quality of life for the aged. Marc's involvement with The Hebrew Home, culminating with his becoming our annual honoree, reflected a lifelong commitment that he and Marcia shared of honoring ones parents. His friendship, warmth, kindness and courageous spirit shall be profoundly missed by all of us. We extend our sincere sympathy to his beloved wife Marcia, his adored children Andrew and Jessica, his devoted father Irving and the entire Lustgarten family. We hope that your shared memories of a loving and wonderful husband, father and son will bring comfort and solace to each of you at this time of sadness and loss. Milton A. Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman Daniel A. Reingold, Exec. V.P.
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc. Our deepest sympathies extend to the entire Lustgarten family on Marc's untimely and tragic passing. We will miss Marc's wisdom, guidance, warmth and dynamic personality, both personally and professionally. Our thoughts and prayers are with Marcia, Andy and Jessica and the entire Lustgarten family. Carol & Richard Hochman
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc A. Beloved husband for 30 years to Marcia, loving father to Andy and Jesse. Marc, you are and will always be our dearest friend who will be deeply missed. You and your family hold a special place in our hearts and our lives will never be the same without you. Love, Lynn, Burt, Jenny, and Jordy
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc. Our community has lost one of its most enthusiastic, generous and loyal members. Marcia, Andrew, and Jessica, please know that your Riverdale family grieves with you. Our love and support is yours, always. The Riverdale Country School Parents Association
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc. Words will never fill the void we feel in our hearts. We'll love you and cherish you and miss you the rest of our lives. Cheryl, Tom, Lauren and Jordan
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc. The Town Club announces the death of our esteemed member. Bernard Friedman, President Irving Friedman, Chrmn of the Bd Burt Wallack, Vice President
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc. Marc, our most courageous and dearest friend, you will always remain in our hearts. Our love to Marcia,Andy, and Jessie. Mark, Ellen and Lacey Fox
      