
        SIMON-Bernard E., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our longstanding colleague, Clinical Professor of Surgery Emeritus, and former President of the A.A.S. Dr. Simon served the institution & its patients for more than sixty years and was also an admired & respected teacher for generations. He was a dedicated and talented surgeon who demonstrated an extraordinary concern for others throughout his career. Following his retirement from pratice in Plastic Surgery, he remained involved in teaching and professional organizations and also continued his writing. He was honored with the Jacobi Medallion at Mount Sinai and received many other awards for his outstanding achievements. He was a beloved member of our Attending Staff and has earned a lasting memory in our hearts. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Stanley Tuhrim, M.D., President Terry Weill, M.D., Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
        SIMON-Bernard E., M.D. The Division of Plastic Surgery of the Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourns the passing of Bernard E. Simon, M.D., Clinical Professor of Surgery Emeritus. Dr. Simon, the Chief of the Division of Plastic Surgery from 1965 to 1979 was associated with Mount Sinai for more than 60 years. In 1955 Dr. Simon along with the late Dr. Arthur Barsky and the late Dr. Sidney Kahn participated in the ''Hiroshima Project'' wherein reconstructive surgery was performed at Mount Sinai on a group of women from Japan who had been disfigured by the W.W. II atomic bombing. This project also trained Japanese suregeons and laid the foundation for plastic surgery in Japan. Dr. Simon was a superb clinician and teacher who was well known for his dedication to his patients. His warmth and wisdom will be missed. We extend sincere condolences to his family. Lester Silver, M.D. Chief, Division of Plastic Surgery
        SIMON-Bernard, M.D. Teacher, partner and dear friend. You will always be remembered for your contributions to plastic surgery and by the many patients who benefited from your care. Our sincere condolences to Cathy, Michael, John and Sarah. Saul Hoffman, M.D. Edgar Altchek, M.D.
      