
        ROSENWACH-Wallace. On August 23, 1999. Beloved husband of Alice, loving father of Andrew, Barbara and her husband Greg, adoring grandfather of Alissa and Henry. Devoted brother of Ruth Sabowitz, Janet Neiderbach and the late Felix Rosenwach. His deep devotion to family and friends was paralleled by his many civic contributions. He served with great enthusiasm for years as ''Principal For A Day''. Active member of numerous civic organizations including The New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce, The Executive Association of Greater New York, The Long Island City Business Development Corporation, The Hundred Year Association of New York, Temple Emanuel of Great Neck, The New York Friars Club, NYC District Council of Carpenters, Local 135, ABO and BOMA. Proud Graduate of NYU School of Engineering and Harvard Business School, Small Business Program. His vision, energy and industry left his mark on the skyline of the city he so loved. His honesty, humor and spirit genuinely touched all who knew him. He will be forever missed and always remembered. Services are to be on Friday, August 27, 11:00 AM, Temple Emanuel, 150 Hicks Lane, Great Neck, NY.
        ROSENWACH-Wallace. The officers and directors of the Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York (ABO) offer their condolences to the family of Wallace Rosenwach, an esteemed member of the Board of Directors who left us too early on August 23, 1999. He was a fixture in the real estate industry. Wally was a dynamic, compassionate leader who unselfishly gave of himself to many charitable and civic causes. His indelible mark can be seen thorughout New York City by anyone looking at the heavens. He leaves behind his loving wife Alice, devoted children Andrew and Barbara, and adored grandchildren Alissa and Henry. We will miss his friendly smile and warm presence. The Associated Builders and Owners of Greater N.Y. Michael Kerr, Co-Chairman Arnold Sollar, Co-Chairamn, Jerome Belson, President Nicholas La Porte, Executive Director
        ROSENWACH - Wallace. The Hundred Year Association of New York mourns the passing of Wallace Rosenwach, a loyal and supportive member of its Board of Governors and of The City of New York. Wally was rightfully proud of his family company founded in 1866 and successfully operated by the Rosenwach family for over a century. He was especially generous in his support of the Association's program to recognize and reward public service and academic excellence. The City will miss a great New Yorker. Richard A. Cook President The Hundred Year Association of New York
        ROSENWACH-Wally. Our very dear friend and neighbor for more than 45 years. Natalie and Herb Kirshner
      