
        STAHL-Stanley. The Board of Directors, volunteers and staff of the American Heart Association in New York City mourn the passing of Stanley Stahl, a devoted friend. Through his generous support, we continue to make progress in the fight against heart disease and stroke-saving lives and improving the quality of life for thousands of New Yorkers living with cardiovascular disease. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Cherie, and his family. Steven W. Duff, Chairman of the Board Jonathan L. Halperin, M.D., President Michael L. Weamer, Executive Vice President
        STAHL-Stanley. The Directors, Officers and Staff of the Apple Bank for Savings mourn the passing of Stanley Stahl, a man of remarkable spirit, warmth and sincerity. He achieved great distinction in business both as a successful real estate investor and as owner of Apple Bank. In all matters, he conducted himself with rare dignity, integrity and intelligence. He will be greatly missed by all of us who knew him as an employer and as a friend. We extend our profound condolences to his family and pray that they may find consolation in his memory.
        STAHL-Stanley. Eugene M. Grant and Company, LLC is deeply saddened by the untimely death of Stanley Stahl. His skillful qualities as a ''realtor extraordinaire'' were evident from the time he purchased his first New York investment property in 1949 from Samuel Greenberg, the founder of our company. His enthusiasm and dynamism were still evident just last month. Our landlord, neighbor and good friend will be greatly missed. Eugene M. Grant Richard E. Kobrin
        STAHL-Stanley. We mourn the passing of Stanley Stahl whose care for those who had the privilege of working with him was unsurpassed. Our love for him is great, but can not equal the love and concern he showed to us. Our thoughts are with Cherie, Greg, Bea, Beth, Lili, Peter, and Simi. Richard, Gregg, Marianne, Jolaine, Ida, Donna, Martha, Chris, Caroline, Jackie, David, Frank, Jim P., Jim F., Joe, and John Stahl Real Estate Company
        STAHL-Stanley. Adored husband and best friend of Cherie, devoted father of Gregory, dearest brother of Beatrice Marans and the late Sonia Schlossberg, beloved uncle of Lili Foggle (John) and granduncle to Samantha, loving and revered stepfather of Peter Neger (Melinda) and Simi Matera (James) and darling Poppy of Emily, Avery, Hillary and Matthew. Service Sunday 12:30pm at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue.
        STAHL-Stanley. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors wish to express our heartfelt sympathy on the passing of our Benefactor, Stanley Stahl. We extend our deepest condolences to Cherie and their entire family. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman, Co-Chairmen Herman S. Sandler, President Albert Schussler, Pres. Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Director
        STAHL-Stanley. In memory of our dear friend and partner, Stanley Stahl, we wish to express our heartfelt sympathy to all his family, friends and associates who will greatly miss his intelligence, spirit and fortitude which will continue to inspire us. Mr & Mrs Kenneth Carmel & Family Mr & Mrs Robert Getreu & Family
        STAHL-Stanley. Esteemed partner, friend and benefactor for more than 30 years. Your peerless brilliance and generosity, from which so many have benefitted, will be forever missed, forever remembered. Deepest condolences to all who loved him. Tom Hutton, Esther Woolf and Louise Gersen
        STAHL-Stanley A. We are saddened by the loss of a true gentleman of the ''old school'' whose wisdom, dignity and warmth enhanced the lives of those with whom he dealt. We offer our sincere condolences to his family and close associates. Marcus Rosenberg & Diamond
        STAHL-Stanley. Our true inspirational leader. His spirit, energy and drive were only outweighed by the brilliance of his counsel and breadth of his heart. We will miss him greatly. Our sincerest condolences to Cherie, Greg, Lili, Peter and Simi. Cauldwell Wingate Co., Inc.
        STAHL-Stanley. The Real Estate Board of New York mourns the passing of Stanley Stahl, a distinguished colleague and an industry leader. We extend our condolences to his family. Bernard H. Mendik, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        STAHL-Stanley. The officers and employees of Carol Management Corporation deeply regret the passing of our friend, Stanley Stahl. We offer our sympathy. He will be missed.
        STAHL-Stanley. We extend our condolences to the family and staff of Stanley Stahl. We will miss his support, advice and guidance. Ed and Marie Riguardi
      