
        POPPER-Walter L, on August 11, 1999 after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Betty, devoted father of Steven, Joseph & the late Holly; adoring grandfather of Aimie, Emily, Jessie, Ben and Julia. He was a wonderful and cherished friend to all, a great philanthropist and a genuinely caring human being. We will miss him greatly. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the charity of your choice. Services Friday 2pm at ''Temple Beth-El'' of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Road.
        POPPER-Walter. The staff of Popper & Sons, Inc. and its subsidiary Popper Precision Instruments mourn the passing of our respected and beloved Chairman of the Board. Walter Popper worked for and then led the company bearing his family's name. Founded in 1922, by his father, Isador Popper, the company grew under the leadership of Walter and brother Robert to be an important manufacturer of medical devices. We will sorely miss the devotion, leadership and vision, which guided us for so many years. While an avid worldwide traveler who devoted extensive time to his many philanthropic undertakings, he still made time to get to know his many employees and to encourage them to fulfill his vision of excellence. Though he will be greatly missed, his legacy will be carried on in all of us that have been inspired by him. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. The employees of Popper & Sons, Inc. and Popper Precision Instruments
        POPPER-Walter L. The Members of the Board of Directors of The City College Fund express their profound sorrow at the loss of their esteemed colleague and devoted friend. His long service on the Board, his deep commitment to public higher education, and his generosity to City College will be remembered always. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Betty and the entire family. Stanley H. Kaplan, '39B, Chairman Herbert Robinson, Esq., '37L, President James L. Schatz, '43B, Executive Director
        POPPER-Walter L. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Walter L. Popper, our esteem Board Member and supporter. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Betty and his sons, Steven and Joseph. Ronald S. Cooper, Chairman Long Island Regional Board Phyllis Barell Regional Director
        POPPER-Walter. We have lost an extraordinary man. A dedicated alumnus. Class of 1940. A sturdy son of City College. An inspiration and a man of vision, kindness and patience. Above all, we have lost a friend and a lifetime member of our board. Our sincere condolences go out to his family. Alumni Association of CCNY
        POPPER-Walter L. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
      