
        STAHL-Stanley. The Directors, Officers and Staff of the Apple Bank for Savings mourn the passing of Stanley Stahl, a man of remarkable spirit, warmth and sincerity. He achieved great distinction in business both as a successful real estate investor and as owner of Apple Bank. In all matters, he conducted himself with rare dignity, integrity and intelligence. He will be greatly missed by all of us who knew him as an employer and as a friend. We extend our profound condolences to his family and pray that they may find consolation in his memory.
        STAHL-Stanley. Eugene M. Grant and Company, LLC is deeply saddened by the untimely death of Stanley Stahl. His skillful qualities as a ''realtor extraordinaire'' were evident from the time he purchased his first New York investment property in 1949 from Samuel Greenberg, the founder of our company. His enthusiasm and dynamism were still evident just last month. Our landlord, neighbor and good friend will be greatly missed. Eugene M. Grant Richard E. Kobrin
        STAHL-Stanley. Adored husband and best friend of Cherie, devoted father of Gregory, dearest brother of Beatrice Marans and the late Sonia Schlossberg, beloved uncle of Beth Lonkin (Brett) and Lili Foggle (John) and granduncle to Samantha, loving and revered stepfather of Peter Neger (Melinda) and Simi Matera (James) and darling Poppy of Emily, Avery, Hillary and Matthew. Service Sunday 12:30pm at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue.
        STAHL-Stanley. A wonderful, loyal and generous friend, who enriched all of our lives. He will be remembered not only for the impact he had on New York's skyline, but more importantly for the generosity and warmth he showed to so many of its people. We extend our sincere condolences to his family and his associates at Stahl Real Estate Company. We will sorely miss him. His friends at Latham & Watkins
        STAHL-Stanley. The administration, staff and associates of Charles H. Greenthal Management and the entire West Group of Companies extends our heartfelt sympathies to the family of Stanley Stahl. He will be greatly missed by us all. William West, Chairman Jonathan West, President Joyce West, President
        STAHL-Stanley. Colliers ABR, Inc. mourns the passing of our cherished friend and client Stanley Stahl and we extend our condolences to Cherie and family. We are forever in your debt for many years of generosity and loyalty. We will miss your strength, intelligence and sense of humor. The Partners and Employees of Colliers ABR, Inc.
        STAHL-Stanley. We mourn the passing of Stanley Stahl. We are saddened by his untimely passing. Stanley was a knowledgeable and creative partner and a good friend for many years. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family and his close associates. Williams Real Estate Co, Inc. Jerome M. Cohen, Chairman Michael T. Cohen, President
        STAHL-Stanley. It is with profound sorrow that we mourn the passing of our longtime business associate and friend. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Jerome M. Cohen, Chairman Michael T. Cohen President and CEO Williams Real Estate Co. Inc.
        STAHL-Stanley. The firm of Richards & O'Neil, LLP, expresses its sadness on the passing of its longtime client and friend, Stanley Stahl, and the step-father of our partner, Peter Neger. All of our firm's partners, associates and staff extend our heartfelt condolences to Stanley's family. Richards & O'Neil, LLP
        STAHL-Stanley. Robert W. and Phyllis M. Seavey and the Seavey Organization mourn the loss of our good friend Stanley. He was a confidant and mentor over a period of 40 years. He is irreplaceable to us. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family and staff. Phyllis and Bob Seavey
        STAHL-Stanley. Our true inspirational leader. His spirit, energy and drive were only outweighed by the brilliance of his counsel and breadth of his heart. We will miss him greatly. Our sincerest condolences to Cherie, Greg, Lili, Peter and Simi. Cauldwell Wingate Co., Inc.
        STAHL-Stanley. The City Athletic Club mourns the passing of our member of 44 years, Stanley Stahl, and wish to extend our deepest condolences to his wife and family. City Athletic Club Board of Governors
        STAHL-Stanley. He was one of a kind. The qualities that made him so special-his extraordinary loyalty, genuine modesty and uncanny intuition-will be greatly missed. Our condolences to his family and colleagues. Duane, Morris & Heckscher LLP
        STAHL-Stanley. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member, Stanley Stahl. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President
        STAHL-Stanley. The attorneys and staff of Hutton Ingram Yuzek Gainen Carroll and Bertolotti, LLP, mourn the loss of Stanley Stahl, a giant in the real estate industry in New York City, a respected client and dear friend. We extend our profound sympathy to his family.
        STAHL-Stanley. A unique individual who will never be forgotten. A long time friend who will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Cherie, Gregory and family. Gloria and Paul Asnes
        STAHL-Stanley. We will dearly miss a true friend. Sincerest condolences to his famly and business associates. Sandy Schlesinger and family
        STAHL-Stanley. We extend our condolences to the family and staff of Stanley Stahl. We will miss his support, advice and guidance. Ed and Marie Riguardi
        STAHL-Stanley. Thanks for being such a good friend. You will be sorely missed. Alan B. Friedberg
      