
        GREENE-Patricia E. (Trish), R.N., Ph.D., FAAN, age 50, Senior Vice President, Patient Services, Leukemia Society of America, an internationally recognized leader in oncology nursing, died peacefully on August 27, 1999, at her home in Stamford, CT, after a valiant struggle with cancer. Born in Gainesville, FL, on December 26, 1948, she was the daughter of Joel Greene and the late Marion Hodges Greene. Dr. Greene received her BSN and MSN from the University of Florida. Her doctorate was awarded by Georgia State University. She was the first Robbie Simpson Fellow at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, an honor that enabled her to promote advanced nursing roles in pediatric oncology throughout the country. She was a founder of Cancer Practice, the American Cancer Society's (ACS) first multidisciplinary practice journal and an original co-editor of Oncology Nursing Update. She authored 32 publications and lectured widely in the United States and abroad. Her contributions were recognized by her election as a Fellow of the American Academy of Nursing. Dr. Greene's clinical career emphasized the care of children with cancer. She held advanced practice clinical positions at Shands Teaching Hospital in Gainesville, FL, Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, North Carolina Memorial Hospital in Chapel Hill, and Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City. She was a founding member and the first president of the Association of Pediatric Oncology Nurses. Her leadership guided the formation of pediatric oncology nursing as a specialty. In 1981, Dr. Greene became the ACS's National Nursing Consultant. She left the ACS in 1996 with the title of National Vice President, Patient Services. During her time at the ACS she developed critically important scholarships and professorships for oncology nurses and scholarships for oncology social workers. This program enabled hundreds of nurses and social workers to pursue graduate studies. She had a key role in bringing programs such as Look Good, Feel Better and I Can Cope to national distribution. She guided national and international revisions of Reach to Recovery, the ACS's program of support for women with breast cancer. She worked with Lane W. Adams, then the Chief Executive Officer of the ACS, in creating a program of national awards recognizing excellence in clinical practice and caring. In 1996, Dr. Greene joined the Leukemia Society of America (LSA). She developed the LSA's Patient Services Program at the national level and throughout the LSA chapters. She created the school re-entry program, began First Connections, and established the LSA's National Information Resource Center. Volunteer work was an important value in Dr. Greene's life. She served the Oncology Nursing Society in several key roles. Her work with the State Cancer Pain Initiatives was pivotal in the establishment and dissemination of that program throughout the United States. She chaired the International Union for Cancer Control Nursing Education Project and was involved in bringing educational programs on cancer nursing to five developing countries. Dr. Greene received many awards including an honorary Lane W. Adams Award, and Distinguished Service awards from the Oncology Nursing Society, the Association of Pediatric Oncology Nurses and the Association of State Cancer Pain Initiatives. She was selected as a Distinguished Alumna during the University of Florida's School of Nursing 50th Anniversary Celebration. Besides her father of North Carolina, Dr. Greene is survived by her companion of 14 years, David Lingren of New York City, two sisters, Terry Cox of Athens, GA and Janet Bailey of Greensboro, NC. A memorial service will be held at a later date. There will be a private interment service in Florida. Memorial contributions are requested for a newly created award to honor her, the Dr. Patricia Greene Leadership Award of the Pediatric Oncology Nurses Foundation, care of Association of Pediatric Oncology Nurses National Office, 4700 West Lake Avenue, Glenview, Illinois 60025-1485. For more information, call Nicholas F. Cognetta Funeral Home and Crematory, Stamford, CT.
      