
        STEINHARDT-Sol, at age 85. Died on August 3, 1999. Beloved partner of Susanne Gyuro. Loving father of Michael. Caring uncle of Marsha. Cherished grandfather of David, Daniel and Sara. Adoring great-grandfather of Jacob. Shiva will be held Thursday, August 5th, 2-9PM and Friday, August 6, 12PMuntil sundown. 1158 5th Avenue, apt 16A.
        STEINHARDT-Sol. Hillel: The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life, mourns the passing of Sol Steinhardt, beloved father of our dear friend and Co-Chairman of Hillel's International Board of Governors, Michael Steinhardt. We extend our condolences to Michael and Judy, grandchildren David and Daniel, Sara (David Berman), cherished great-grandson Jacob and to family and friends. May the Steinhardt family be comforted among the Mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Edgar M. Bronfman Chairman, International Board of Governors Charles Schusterman Co-Chairman, International Board of Governors Chuck Newman Chairman, Board of Directors Richard M. Joel President & International Director
        STEINHARDT-Sol. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership, extend deepest condolences to Michael Steinhardt, his wife Judy and the entire family on the passing of Michael's beloved father, Sol Steinhardt. May his inspiration enhance the life of his family and may they be comforted by his loving memory. Barbara B. Friedman, Chairman Charles R. Bronfman, Honorary Chairman Rabbi Irwin Kula, President Donna M. Rosenthal, Executive Vice Chairman
        STEINHARDT-Sol. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of Sol Steinhardt, father of Michael (and Judy) Steinhardt. The Steinhardts have played a vital role in NJOP's efforts to assure a Jewish future for American Jewry, and their visionary leadership and philanthropy is recognized throughout the Jewish community. The Steinhardts' devotion to Jewish causes and to the Jewish people undoubtedly reflects the values Sol Steinhardt taught his family. Yehi Zichro Baruch. Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchwald, Dir
        STEINHARDT-Sol. The Solomon Schechter High School of New York family mourns the death of Sol Steinhardt, father of our kind and generous benefactor, Michael Steinhardt. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Michael and Judy Steinhardt and to the entire Steinhardt family. The Solomon Schechter High School of New York Meryl E. Wiener Chair, Board of Trustees Rabbi Judd Kruger Levingston Principal
        STEINHARDT-Sol. The Friends of Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design deeply mourn the passing of Sol Steinhardt, beloved father of our esteemed Board Member and colleague Michael Steinhardt, and cherished father-in-law of our friend and colleague Judy Steinhardt. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire family. May his memory be a blessing to us all. Romie Shapiro, Chairman of the Board Harry Bauer, President Eillene Leistner, Executive V.P.
        STEINHARDT-Sol. The Tel Aviv Foundation mourns with deep sorrow the passing of Sol Steinhardt and expresses its deepest sympathies to his family. The Honorable Ron Huldai, Mayor of Tel Aviv Jaffa David Harnik, Director General Tel Aviv Foundation, Israel Uzi Zucker, Ira Riklis, Shimon Topor, Jeannie Gerzon, Tel Aviv Foundation, USA
        STEINHARDT-Sol. The Abraham Joshua Heschel School community extends condolences to Michael Steinhardt, a communal leader and a friend and supporter of the School, on the loss of his father. Our sympathies are extended to the entire family. Terry Krulwich, President Roanna Shorofsky, Director
      