
        COHLAN-Sidney Q., Dr., 84. Of New York on August 12th, 1999. Beloved husband of Dr. Shirley Stone, loving father of Dr. Barbara Cohlan Perlmutter, Deborah Cohlan and John Cohlan, adored grandfather of Andrew and Lisa Perlmutter and Alexander Stone Cohlan, and caring father-of-law of David Perlmutter and Louisa Winkelman Cohlan. A compassionate and devoted pediatrician, scientist and teacher with 51 years of caring for the sick, 40 years as a member of the New York University School of Medicine faculty and 30 years as Director of Pediatrics at the Tisch Hospital at New York University Medical Center. Pioneer in teratology, consultant on congenital malformations to the National Institute of Health & past president of the Teratology Society. He, with his wonderful wife, Dr. Shirley Stone, taught generations of medical students and supported countless patients and their families through physical and emotional crises. He will be greatly missed by all he touched. Service Monday, August 16, 12:30PM, at the ''Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to the Dr. Sidney Q. Cohlan Pediatric Memorial Fund, C/O of Faculty and Friends Campaign, NYU Medical Center, 550 First Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
        COHLAN-Sidney Q., M.D. On behalf of the faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine, we note with great sorrow the passing of Sidney Q. Cohlan, M.D., age 84, a dedicated pediatrician, pioneering researcher and distinguished faculty member of the Department of Pediatrics. Dr. Cohlan joined NYU in 1950 and served our community for 40 years before his retirement in 1990. In the early 1950's, Dr. Cohlan performed the seminal experiments that provided the foundation for understanding the origin of certain human birth defects caused by Vitamin A and its derivatives. His pioneering research in teratology, the study of birth defects, was recognized widely. He was a consultant to the National Institutes of Health on birth defects, a charter member of the Teratology Society and a pastPresident of the Society. An accomplished, caring physician, Dr. Cohlan was especially acknowledged for his work with children who had severe behavioral tics. He and his wife, Shirley M. Stone, M.D., a pediatrician, were in private practice together for many years and they and some of their patients founded KiDS of NYU, a volunteer organization committed to supporting children's services at NYU Medical Center. Dr. Cohlan joined the faculty of NYU School of Medicine in 1950 as Clinical Instructor and was appointed Professor of Pediatrics in 1969. He also served as Director of the Pediatrics Service at the then-named University Hospital, now Tisch Hospital, for 30 years. Dr. Cohlan was a loyal friend, warm host, and wonderful raconteur. His great sense of humor and deep commitment to patients made him beloved of many patients and their families. He will be greatly missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Dr. Shirley Stone; his daughter, Barbara Cohlan, M.D., and son-in-law, David Perlmutter; his daughter, Deborah Cohlan; his son, John Cohlan and daughter-in-law, Louisa; and his three grandchildren, Andrew, Lisa and Alexander. Henry R. Silverman Chairman, Board of Trustees NYU School of Medicine Robert M. Glickman, M.D. Dean, NYU School of Medicine Theresa A. Bischoff President, NYU Hospitals Center
        COHLAN-Sidney Q., M.D. The faculty, staff, students and patients of the Department of Pediatrics of NYU School of Medicine and the Pediatric Attending staffs of Bellevue Hospital Center and Tisch Hospital mourn the death of Dr. Sidney Q. Cohlan. Dr. Cohlan was an exemplary physician scientist who, early in his career, made critical discoveries about the relation of excess Vitamin A and birth defects leading to a lifelong interest in teratology. He was an outstanding teacher of several generations of medical students and all remember his classic examination of the newborn. Dr. Cohlan and his wife, Shirley Stone, M.D., served pediatric patients and their families on the East Side of Manhattan for generations and firmly established one of the leading pediatric group practices. Dr. Cohlan, along with his close friends, Drs. Saul Krugman and Joseph Dancis, led the Department of Pediatrics at NYU Medical Center-Bellevue Hospital Center for three decades and his teaching, wit, wisdom and guidance will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved wife and family. Wade P. Parks, Ph.D., M.D. Pat and E. John Rosenwald, Jr. Professor and Chairman, Department of Pediatrics NYU School of Medicine
        COHLAN-Sidney Q., M.D. The faculty and staff of the Neonatology Program of NYU Medical Center and Bellevue Hospital Center wish to express their sincere condolences to the Cohlan and Stone family. A great and sensitive colleague will be deeply missed. Karen D. Hendricks-Munoz, M.D. Director, Neonatology Program
      