
        FREIMANN-Lorraine Gallagher. A long-time resident of Palm Beach, Fla., and former resident of Chicago, Fort Wayne, Ind., and New York City, died at her home on Tuesday, August 3, 1999. She is survived by two daughters, Mrs. Danielle F. Basil of Palm Beach, and Mrs. Francine F. Snyder of Chicago; six grandchildren, Monique B. Refkin, Michelle B. Rodwell, and Paul, Lorraine, Stephen and David Snyder; and three great - grandchildren, Courtney Refkin and Ashley and Jessica Rodwell. Mrs. Freimann served as the president of the board of trustees of St. Mary's Hospital for many years, and was presently an Honorary Life Trustee and member of the Intracoastal Health Foundation Board of Trustees for St. Mary's and Good Samaritan Medical Centers, West Palm Beach, Fla. She also served as a board member of the American Cancer Society of Palm Beach as well as ''Thrift Inc.'' of Palm Beach. A former board member of the Society of the Four Arts, Palm Beach, Mrs. Freimann was also an honorary board member of Rosarian Academy, West Palm Beach. Identified with Catholic Charities locally and in former residences, she was a Dame of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem and a Lady of the Knights of Malta. Mrs. Freimann served on the board of St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind., and was a board member of the Art Council of the University of Notre Dame. She held an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from St. Joseph's College, Van Rensellear, Ind. Among locally received honors was the philanthropic ''Award of the Year'' given by the Palm Beach Chamber of Commerce, the award for philanthropy from the Salvation Army, and the ''Woman of the Year'' award from Noreen McKeen Residence, West Palm Beach. Mrs. Freimann was a board member of the Stehlin Foundation for Cancer Research, Houston, a founding member of the Junior League of Fort Wayne, and also served on the National Board of the Junior Leagues of America. She attended St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, and was graduated from the University of Chicago with a bachelor's degree in philosophy. Mrs. Freimann was a member of the Everglades Club of Palm Beach, the Women's Athletic Club, Chicago, and the Metropolitan Club of New York. She was a member of St. Edward's Catholic Church, Palm Beach, and was active with the St. Edward's Guild. Mrs. Freimann was the donor of the St. Edward's Parish Hall to the Diocese of Palm Beach. In lieu of flowers, those who wish may make a contribution to the charity of their choice. The Funeral Mass at St. Edward's Catholic Church, Palm Beach, and the entombment at Our Lady Queen of Peace Catholic Cemetery, Royal Palm Beach, will be held privately. For further information, contact Quattlebaum - Holleman - Burse Funeral Home, 561-832-5171.
      