
        FISHMAN-Barbara White. Artist and Philanthropist. Ms. White's career as an art director began shortly after her graduation from Cooper Union. She was a designer in an architectural office, designed fabrics for a textile company and worked at CBS in her early career designing advertisements for the network. Later, as an art director, she designed album covers and liner notes for CBS records for everything from pop to classical. Ms. White won many awards for her work from AIGA, The Art Directors' Club of New York and had her work shown in Graphis magazine. Her later career experience was in pharmaceutical advertising. She began as an art director at William Douglas McAdams Inc., and included career moves to L.W. Frolich Intercon., Levey/ Wolff/Swift and Grey. She rose to the position of Vice President, Art Group Supervisor, supervising four art directors. She designed and organized campaigns for the introduction of new pharmaceutical products. She was a pioneer in her profession, blazing the way for younger women in the field of advertising. She retired from full time advertising in 1988 and went into business as a dealer in French and English antiques at Le Vieux Monde Antiques on Lexington Avenue. Ms. White left the antique business in 1990 to devote herself full time to painting, her first love. Early along in this pursuit she had shows at Katarina Rich Perlow Gallery, and most recently showed her work at the Elaine Benson Gallery in Bridgehampton. Ms. White became involved in philanthropy in 1992 through her interest in establishing a place for young artists to develop their work. She was in Vermont painting and met John Gregg and was enamored with the idea of building and expanding his vision of a retreat for artists at all levels in their careers. The concept of a place where artists, poets and writers could work uninterrupted by the everyday demands of family and work appealed to her greatly. She was the Chairman of the Board of the Vermont Studio Center. Ms. White openly acknowledged her battle with breast cancer and decided to dedicate her energies to helping other women in a position similar to her own. Her artistic vision led her to establish an in-patient floor at Memorial Sloan-Kettering that would have a personal and gracious environment. She was involved in the design and decoration of the floor, from choosing carpeting and fabrics to adorning the walls with her own photographs and paintings. She was similarly involved in an out-patient facility for women at Memorial Sloan-Kettering. At the time of her death, Ms. White was on the advisory board of the Sloan Kettering Institute, was a trustee and Board member at the Cooper Union School of Art, a Board member of the Friends of LaGuardia High School (formerly the High School of Music and Art), and a member of the Board of the Parrish Museum in Southampton. Ms. White leaves her sons Neil, Leslie and Daniel, her devoted companion Jack Talan, and her sister Mimi Inorio. She was formerly married to Dr. Jack Fishman of the Strang Clinic.
        FISHMAN-Barbara White. The Alumni & Friends of La Guardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts mourns the loss of our Board member, Barbara White Fishman (M&A '57) known to students as the ''Art Angel.'' Her generosity made it possible for hundreds of La Guardia art students to obtain necessary materials and scholarships. Her devotion to furthering appreciation for the arts and her direct involvement with the students was unique. She will be sorely missed. Our condolences to her family and her devoted companion, Jack Talan. Peter Bakstansky, President Constance Boykan, Director
        FISHMAN-Barbara White. With deep sorrow, the Board of Trustees, faculty, students and staff of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, mourn the death of Trustee Barbara White Fishman. A gifted artist, a devoted alumna of The Cooper Union School of Art, she endowed visiting art scholars and art critics, greatly enriching the education of our art students. We will miss her friendship, counsel and inspiration. Robert A. Bernhard, Chairman John Jay Iselin, President
        FISHMAN-Barbara White. The Alumni Association of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art offers heartfelt condolences to the family of our beloved alumna, Barbara White Fishman. Her support for and devotion to The Cooper Union meant so much to all of us. Marilyn Hoffner, President
      