
        STEINHARDT-Sol. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Sol Steinhardt, beloved father of our good friend and supporter Michael Steinhardt. We extend our deepest condolences to Michael, his wife Judy, grandchildren David, Daniel and Sara, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        STEINHARDT-Sol. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd St Y mourn the passing of Sol Steinhardt, beloved father of Michael Steinhardt, a dedicated member of our board and our dear friend. Adoring grandfather of David, Daniel and Sara. Loving great grandfather of Jacob. May the Steinhardt family and all who knew him be comforted among the Mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Philip L. Milstein, President Joseph N. Leff, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        STEINHARDT-Sol. The Wildlife Conservation Society mourns the passing of Sol Steinhardt, father of our Trustee, Michael Steinhardt. The Steinhardts have been dedicated supporters of conservation and of the Bronx Zoo. We send our deepest condolences to Michael, his wife, Judy, and the entire family. David T. Schiff, Chairman William G. Conway President and General Director
        STEINHARDT-Sol. The staff of Jewish Life Network mourns the passing of Sol Steinhardt, beloved father of our Chairman and Principal, Michael Steinhardt. A risk taker and an authentic, self-made man, his hard life could not diminish his love for his family. May Michael, Judy and the grandchildren be comforted with all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Irving Greenberg, President Jonathan J. Greenberg, Exec. Dir.
        STEINHARDT-Sol. Makor: The Partnership for Jewish Life, deeply regrets the passing of Sol Steinhardt, beloved father of Michael Steinhardt, our visionary leader and chairman. We extend our deepest condolences to Michael, Judy, David, Daniel, Sara and Susan. The Board of Directors Rabbi David Gedzelman Creative Director Donna Lieberman, Managing Dir.
        STEINHARDT-Sol. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum extend their heartfelt condolences to their generous friend Michael Steinhardt, his wife Judy, and the entire family on the passing of Michael's beloved father, Sol. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Joan Rosenbaum, Director
      