
        MARRON-Eugenie M. 99 years old, of Palm Beach, FL, died on Monday, August 16, 1999 at a local hospital. Mrs. Marron had been a resident of Palm Beach for the past 50 years and was a former resident of New York, NY and Brielle, NJ. She received a Masters Degree in Fine Arts from Columbia University and was a noted artist and sculptor, studying under Alexander Archipenko, and exhibiting her works in Carnegie Hall and Wally Findlay Galleries of Palm Beach. In addition, The Smithsonian Institute requested one of her sculptures for display. Mrs. Marron was also a concert pianist, having performed in Carnegie Hall as well as an author, with two published books ''Albacora'' and ''Caught in the Act.'' She was a world renowned big game fisherwoman, holding five world records, one still unbroken (Swordfish, 722 lbs). Along with her husband, Louis E. Marron, she traveled the world for big game fish and assisted in research for M.I.T. and University of Miami Marine Laboratory relating to studies of the Giant Squid's nervous system. A generous philanthropist, Mrs. Marron was a former chairperson of the Palm Beach Heart Ball and was the founder of the Salvation Army Ball of Palm Beach and served as its chairperson for 10 years. She was a former member of the New York Metropolitan Club, the Bath and Tennis Club of Spring Lake, NJ, the Spring Lake Country Club, the Croquet Club of Spring Lake, the Brielle Country Club of Brielle, NJ, the Anglers Club of the Florida Keys, the Sailfish Club and the Bath and Tennis Club, both of Palm Beach, and was a current member of the Everglades Club of Palm Beach. Mrs. Marron was preceded in death by her husband, Louis E. Marron in 1969. She is survived by her nieces, Eugenie Wikberg of Ft. Lauderdale, FL and Suzanne J. Treacy of Deerfield Beach, FL; two grandnieces, Suzanne Ross and Christina Wikberg; a grandnephew, John William Wikberg, Jr.; and a greatgrandnephew, James Ross, IV. A Wake Service will be held at 7:00 P.M. on Thursday, August 19, 1999 at Quattlebaum-Holleman Burse Funeral Home, 1201 South Olive Avenue, West Palm Beach. The Mass of the Resurrection will be held at 10:00 A.M. on Friday, August 20, 1999 at St. Edwards Catholic Church, Palm Beach, FL. Entombment will take place in the St. Catherine's Cemetery of Wall Township, NJ. Friends may call at the funeral home between the hours of 6:00 to 8:00 P.M. on Thursday. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in her memory to the Salvation Army, 2100 Palm Beach Lakes Boulevard, West Palm Beach, FL 33409.
      