
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M., Ambassador. The officers and directors of the American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology (ATS) mourn the passing of Philip M. Klutznick of Chicago, Illinois. Ambassador Klutznick was a legendary philanthropist and leader of the world Jewish community and a distinguished and noted statesman. He served as U.S. Secretary of Commerce during the Carter administration and was appointed by President Kennedy as Representative to The Economic and Social Council of the United Nations (ECOSOC) from 1961-63. He served many years with distinction as International President of B'nai B'rith; co-founded the B'nai B'rith Youth Organization; was a founder of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations and authored a book on contemporary Jewish communal issues. He was a great and righteous friend of the people of Israel. Ambassador Klutznick made history in the field of urban development. Personally as well as professionally passionate about the field of urban planning, he and his wife, Ethel, demonstrated the highest level of commitment, becoming Guardians of Technion through the establishment and sustained support of The Philip M. and Ethel Klutznick Center for Urban and Regional Studies. Jews worldwide will miss this selfless man and beloved advocate, who was an inspiration to us all. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire Klutznick family. American Society for TechnionIsrael Institute of Technology Lawrence Jackier, Esq, President Irving Shepard, Chairman Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive V.P. Joel Rothman, Esq, Chicago Chapter President Jerold A. Jacover, Esq, Chicago Chapter Chair Fred Greenberg, West Central Region Director
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. The officers, trustees and staff of the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture mourn the loss of its esteemed past president, Philip M. Klutznick, an outstanding and committed leader in national and international Jewish affairs. In 1981 he succeeded our founder, Dr. Nahum Goldmann, as president of the Foundation to culminate a lifetime of distinguished Jewish communal service. During his seven years of exemplary leadership in this post, he advanced the Foundation's sacred mission of revitalizing Jewish cultural life all around the world after the Shoah. To all the members of his family we extend our sincerest condolences. Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, President Dr. Jerry Hochbaum, Executive Vice President
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and longtime, generous supporter of science research, Ambassador Philip M. Klutznick, who, along with his late wife, Ethel, established the Klutznick Scientific Research Fund and the Philip M. and Ethel Klutznick Chair of Developmental Biology. We express our deepest sympathy to the children, grandchildren and the entire Klutznick family. Robert H. Asher, Chairman American Committee Albert Wilner, M.D., President Martin Kraar, Executive V.P. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Haim Harari, President
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. We mourn the death of former World Jewish Congress and B'nai B'rith president, Philip M. Klutznick-diplomat, fighter for human rights, philanthropist, for more than 7 decades, since his presidency of BB Youth, the backbone of American Jewish organizational life, the friend of 6 U.S. Presidents, who achieved being a full American and a full Jew without being marginal to either. Edgar M. Bronfman, President Israel Singer, Secretary General World Jewish Congress
        KLUTZNICK-Philip. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Philip Klutznick, an outstanding Jewish leader. As International President of B'nai B'rith and an honorary Vice Chairman of ADL's National Commission, his commitment to the security of the Jews worldwide was steadfast. We extend our deepest condolences to his entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. Temple Sholom of Chicago mourns the passing of our esteemed member, community leader and honored Statesman and extends our heartfelt condolences to his family. May his memory serve as a blessing. Aaron M. Petuchowski, Rabbi Dr. Cheryl Gutmann, President
      