
        ROSS-Gilbert I., Col. Retired U.S. Army. Died August 16, 1999 at age 97 at his home in Rye, NY. Col. Ross was born in New York City on March 24, 1902 to Gustave C. and Caroline Fleischman Ross. He grew up in New Haven, CT. In 1923 he graduated from Sheffield Scientific School of Yale University with a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering and an ROTC commission as Second Lieutenant in Army Ordnance. After graduation, he worked as a mechanical engineer for several years before opening his own consulting engineering firm. He lived in Belmont, MA, Cambridge, MA, and Norwalk, CT before moving to Rye, NY in 1938. Called to active duty in Army Ordnance in August of 1940, Col. Ross served during World War II as District Chief and Commanding Officer of the NY Ordnance District, and then as Deputy Chief and Commanding Office of the Tank and Automotive Center in Detroit attached to the Control Branch of the Chief of Ordnance at the Pentagon. He was awarded the Legion of Merit by the Army and the Conspicuous Service Medal by New York State for his wartime service. After WWII, Col. Ross returned to his commercial engineering career as officer and director of Ross and Co., Inc., and as proprietor of Ross and Co. Engineers & Consultants. He held license to practice as a Professional Engineer in various engineering disciplines in some 21 states. He was active in many professional organizations: Life Fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, active in various divisions; Council Member and one-term president of the American Institute of Consulting Engineers; Fellow of Consulting Engineers Council. He planned industrial plants, distribution facilities and other works. He also held positions at various times as: President and Director of Manufacturing Industries, Inc.; Director of Maizewood Insulation Co.; Electroweave Manufacturing Co.; Fire Devices, Inc.; Haddam Manufacturing Co.; and special consultant to Vitro Corp. of America. He was honored in ''Who's Who in America'' and ''Who's Who in Engineering,'' received various engineering professional awards, and authored publications on professional practices, policies and techniques. Col. Ross was a former member of the Yale Club of New York City, and chaired his Yale class 60th reunion. He was a former member of the Rye Rotary Club and a member and former trustee of the Rye Presbyterian Church. Col. Ross is survived by his wife Loretta Kerwin Murtagh Ross of Rye, whom he married in 1975. He is also survived by three children and three step-children: Gilbert H. Ross of Burlington, VT, Robert F. Ross of Fayetteville, AR, Carol Ross Moran of Larchmont, NY, Robert Murtagh of Mahopac, NY, Cathy Murtagh Seumenicht of Mamaroneck, NY, and Barbara Murtagh LaMarte of Omaha, NE. Other survivors include: five grandchildren: Warren R. Ross of Fayetteville, AR, Lia Ross-Reyes of Bedford, NY, Audrey Ross-Sanders of Buffalo, NY, Dr. Pamela Ross-Carmichael of Poland, ME, Glenda Ross Washburn of Newport, VA; three step-grandchildren: Clifford W. Moran of Ridgefield, CT, Douglas G. Moran of Denver, CO, and Kathy S. Moran of Minneapolis, MN; five great-grandchildren, and eleven step great-grandchildren. He was predeceased by his parents and brothers Jerome L. Ross and Milton J. Ross all of Hamden, CT; and his first wife Leslie Harrington Ross, to whom he was married from 1928 until her death in 1974. Funeral services are Thursday, August 19, 2PM at Rye Presbyterian Church, Rye, NY. In lieu of flowers, family suggests donations to Meals on Wheels or United Hospital Hospice.
      