
        KAHN-Harry. It is with great sadness that all of us at CEP will record the passing of Harry Kahn, a longtime member of the Board and past Chairman. Harry's enormous contribution to the CEP philosophy is endowed through the success the organization enjoys today; indeed, his strong sense of values and personal caring form an enduring memory which we, his successors, must always seek to emulate. Until only recently, Harry was helping and encouraging us with his depth of vision and ideas, his seeming endless energy and unbridled enthusiasm for CEP's future. He will be sorely missed. Gavin Anderson, Chairman
        KAHN-Harry. The Board of Directors and staff of the National Child Labor Committee mourn the passing of their longtime friend and board member. A man of great dignity with a strong commitment to the well-being of all our nation's young people, he helped make sure that economic opportunity was more than just a phrase for millions of youth. His wisdom, his counsel, and his wit will be greatly missed. Jeffrey Newman, President and Executive Director Julianne Malveaux, Chairman, Board of Directors National Child Labor Committee
        KAHN-Harry. It is with deep sadness that we mark the untimely passing of our friend and former Board member, Harry Kahn. A man of great charm, intellect, and accomplishment, he helped lead the NYC Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association during crucial times in our development. Our heartfelt condolences go out to his family and many friends. Eugene S. Callender, Co-President Irvine D. Flinn, Co-President John A. Jager, Exec. Director Jean Marks, Assoc. Exec. Director
        KAHN-Harry. The Board of Trustees, the Director and the Staff of the Brooklyn Museum of Art record with deep sorrow the passing of art collector and philanthropist, Harry Kahn. A longtime friend of the Museum, he was a member of the Board of Trustees until 1997, a founding member of the Contemporary Art Council, and remained a member of the Acquisitions Committee until the time of his death. Robert S. Rubin, Chairman
      