
        WILLIAMS-Frederic Houston. 64, of East Hampton, NY and Vero Beach, FL, died Sunday, August 1 at home in East Hampton. Born in Detroit, MI, Mr. Williams was the son of the late Katherine Woodroofe Carre and the late Admiral Frederic Houston Williams. He was the husband of Gail Dillingham Williams. Mr. Williams was Chairman of the Board of Williams, Jones & Associates, Inc. in New York City, an investment management firm he founded. He was a graduate of Philips Academy, Andover, MA; Yale University and Harvard Business School. He was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Juilliard School. A member of The Maidstone Club, East Hampton, NY; Johns Island Club, Vero Beach, FL; and The University Club, New York City. In addition to his wife, Mr. Williams is survived by two daughters, Lisa Williams Hartman of Rolling Meadows, IL., and Daphne Kay Williams of Stamford, CT., and two sons, Frederic Houston Williams III of East Stroudsburg, PA and Jeffrey Paul Williams of Darien, CT. He is also survived by stepdaughters Melinda Gow Haffeman, Margaret Gow Trautmann, Marcie Gow Pajolek, Karen Baldwin Zimmerman and fifteen grandchildren. Services will be held on Wednesday, August 4 at 11:00 A.M. at St. Luke's Episcopal Church at 18 James Lane in East Hampton. In addition, a memorial service will be held in September in New York City, time and location to be announced. Memorial contributions may be directed to the Frederic Houston Williams Scholarship at The Juilliard School, 60 Lincoln Center Plaza, New York, NY 10023.
        WILLIAMS-Frederic H. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of our distinguished and beloved Trustee Frederic H. Williams, who was a member of the Board of the School from 1992 until his death. Fred brought enormous energy, optimism and expertise to his various responsibilities as a Board member. His generosity and support of Juilliard's programs, both of today and for the future, had a profoundly positive influence throughout the institution. The Juilliard community expresses sincere condolences to his wife, Gail, and his entire family. Mary Rodgers Guettel, Chairman Joseph W. Polisi, President
      