
        FISHMAN-Barbara White. Artist and philanthropist died on August 12, 1999 at the age of 60. Mother of Neil, Leslie, and Daniel Fishman. Also survived by sister Mimi Inorio. A memorial service will be held on Sunday August 15, 1999 at 11:30 am at Campbell's Funeral Home 1076 Madison Avenue. In lieu of flowers please send donations to The Barbara White Foundation c/o Leslie Fishman, 100 Riverside Drive, New York, New York 10024.
        FISHMAN-Barbara White. The Staff and Trustees of The Parrish Art Museum are deeply saddened by the passing of a dear friend and wonderful Trustee, Barbara White Fishman. Her steadfast support of the arts and young artists in particular, resulted in an extraordinary generosity to The Parrish Art Museum and other organizations. Her most recent expression of this commitment is the establishemnt of The Barbara White Fishman Award for the Museum's bi-annual juried exhibition. We extend our sincere condolences to Jack Talan and to her family. Mildred C. Brinn, Chairman Trudy C. Kramer, Director
        FISHMAN-Barbara White. The patients, staff and leadership of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourn the death of Barbara White Fishman, a woman of valiant creativity. Barbara's courage, considerable artistic gifts and dedication to enhancing the patient-care environment, set her apart as a philanthropist and friend. The light and grace she brought to our halls will long be missed-even as her legacy touches the lives of our patients. We extend our condolences to her family. Paul A. Marks, M.D., President Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        FISHMAN-Barbara White. With deep sorrow, the Board of Trustees, faculty, students and staff of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, mourn the death of Trustee Barbara White Fishman. A gifted artist, a devoted alumna of The Cooper Union School of Art, she endowed visiting art scholars and art critics, greatly enriching the education of our art students. We will miss her friendship, counsel and inspiration. Robert A. Bernhard, Chairman John Jay Iselin, President
        FISHMAN-Barbara White. The Alumni Association of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art offers heartfelt condolences to the family of our beloved alumna, Barbara White Fishman. Her support for and devotion to The Cooper Union meant so much to all of us. Marilyn Hoffner, President
        FISHMAN-Barbara White. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of Barbara White Fishman, Founder and Benefactor of our synagogue. Heartfelt sympathy to the enire family. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Presdient Seymour G. Siegel, Treasurer
      