
        COHLAN-Sidney Q., Dr., 84. Of New York on August 12th, 1999. Beloved husband of Dr. Shirley Stone, loving father of Dr. Barbara Cohlan Perlmutter, Deborah Cohlan and John Cohlan, adored grandfather of Andrew and Lisa Perlmutter and Alexander Stone Cohlan, and caring father-of-law of David Perlmutter and Louisa Winkelman Cohlan. A compassionate and devoted pediatrician, scientist and teacher with 51 years of caring for the sick, 40 years as a member of the New York University School of Medicine faculty and 30 years as Director of Pediatrics at the Tisch Hospital at New York University Medical Center. Pioneer in teratology, consultant on congenital malformations to the National Institute of Health & past president of the Teratology Society. He, with his wonderful wife, Dr. Shirley Stone, taught generations of medical students and supported countless patients and their families through physical and emotional crises. He will be greatly missed by all he touched. Service Monday, August 16, 12:30PM, at the ''Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to the Dr. Sidney Q. Cohlan Pediatric Memorial Fund, C/O of Faculty and Friends Campaign, NYU Medical Center, 550 First Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
        COHLAN-Sidney Q., M.D. It is with great sadness that Pediatric Associates of NYC mourns the passing of its Founder, Sidney Q. Cohlan, husband and partner of Shirley Stone, M.D. In his over 50 years of practicing and teaching pediatrics, Sidney's wisdom, kindness and humor made an indelible impression on generations of children, parents, medical students and colleagues. He created a practice that was more like a family and was an inspiration and loving mentor to us all. We shall miss him. We extend our deepest sympathies to Shirley and her family. Sol Zimmerman, MD Harris Burstin, MD David Horwitz, MD Paula Prezioso, MD Ellen Putter, MD Debra Greenstein, MD Gweneth Levy, MD Aviva Oppenheim, MD
        COHLAN-Sidney Q., M.D. KiDS of NYU Medical Center mourns the passing of Dr. Sidney Cohlan. He was a gifted physician and teacher. His wisdom and generosity of spirit inspired us to create this organization. We, together with the countless children and families of KiDS, have lost a wonderful friend, but one whom we will always remember with enormous gratitude and love. Carla Magliocco, Founding Chair Alice Tisch, Chair KiDS of NYU Medical Center
        COHLAN-Sidney Q., M.D. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend Sidney, a caring physician to our children and a very special friend. Our deepest sympathy to Shirley and the family. Renee and Stanley Shapiro and Family
      