
        STAHL-Stanley. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stanley Stahl, a generous supporter and dedicated member of our Real Estate Division. He was a cherished friend of the Jewish community who will be greatly missed. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Cherie; his son, Gregory; his stepson, Peter Neger; his stepdaughter Simi Matera; his sister, Beatrice Marans; and his grandchildren, Emily, Avery, Hillary, and Matthew. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Andrew J. Singer, Chair, Real Estate Division Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        STAHL-Stanley. The Directors, Officers and Staff of the Apple Bank for Savings mourn the passing of Stanley Stahl, a man of remarkable spirit, warmth and sincerity. He achieved great distinction in business both as a successful real estate investor and as owner of Apple Bank. In all matters, he conducted himself with rare dignity, integrity and intelligence. He will be greatly missed by all of us who knew him as an employer and as a friend. We extend our profound condolences to his family and pray that they may find consolation in his memory.
        STAHL-Stanley. Eugene M. Grant and Company, LLC is deeply saddened by the untimely death of Stanley Stahl. His skillful qualities as a ''realtor extraordinaire'' were evident from the time he purchased his first New York investment property in 1949 from Samuel Greenberg, the founder of our company. His enthusiasm and dynamism were still evident just last month. Our landlord, neighbor and good friend will be greatly missed. Eugene M. Grant Richard E. Kobrin
        STAHL-Stanley. Adored husband and best friend of Cherie, devoted father of Gregory, dearest brother of Beatrice Marans and the late Sonia Schlossberg, beloved uncle of Beth Lonkin (Brett) and Lili Foggle (John) and granduncle to Samantha, loving and revered stepfather of Peter Neger (Melinda) and Simi Matera (James) and darling Poppy of Emily, Avery, Hillary and Matthew. Service Sunday 12:30pm at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue.
        STAHL-Stanley. We are saddened by the passing of Stanley Stahl whose intellect and knowledge inspired us. Our relationship was always one of mutual respect, and we will miss our client and friend. Howard Misthal Stuart Kotler Tony Cucci Roman Peresiper
        STAHL-Stanley. The firm of Richards & O'Neil, LLP, expresses its sadness on the passing of its longtime client and friend, Stanley Stahl, and the step-father of our partner, Peter Neger. All of our firm's partners, associates and staff extend our heartfelt condolences to Stanley's family. Richards & O'Neil, LLP
        STAHL-Stanley. Our true inspirational leader. His spirit, energy and drive were only outweighed by the brilliance of his counsel and breadth of his heart. We will miss him greatly. Our sincerest condolences to Cherie, Greg, Lili, Peter and Simi. Cauldwell Wingate Co., Inc.
        STAHL-Stanley. The attorneys and staff of Hutton Ingram Yuzek Gainen Carroll and Bertolotti, LLP, mourn the loss of Stanley Stahl, a giant in the real estate industry in New York City, a respected client and dear friend. We extend our profound sympathy to his family.
        STAHL-Stanley. A unique individual who will never be forgotten. A long time friend who will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Cherie, Gregory and family. Gloria and Paul Asnes
        STAHL-Stanley. Our heartfelt condolences to the family of Stanley Stahl. Stanley was kind to, and considerate of, me and my family, and will be rememberd always. Estelle Ellis and family
        STAHL-Stanley. We are truly saddened by the loss of our good friend. He is in our hearts forever. Bruce and Tami Watkins
        STAHL-Stanley. Thanks for being such a good friend. You will be sorely missed. Alan B. Friedberg
      