
        KLEINERMAN-Jerome I., Dr. 75, An internationally renowned scientist in the field of pulmonary pathology whose research led to a better understanding of environmental lung diseases, died Friday (August 6) in Arcadia, FL, following an auto accident. Dr. Kleinerman was professor emeritus of pathology at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine. He served as Chairman of the Department of Pathology at Mount Sinai School of Medicine of the City University of New York from 1978 to 1986. He also was Director of Pathology at Mount Sinai Hospital and was named the Irene Heinz Given and John LaPorte Given Professor of Pathology. Deeply concerned about the health of people in the workplace, Dr. Kleinerman was a driving force in setting nationwide standards for diagnosing lung diseases including the coal workers pneumoconiosis, asbestosis, byssinosis, and other occupational hazards. These standards still are being used today. Formerly of Shaker Heights, Ohio, he was professor of pathology and environmental health sciences at Case Western Reserve University from 1986 to 1995 before retiring to Palm Beach Gardens, FL, where he worked as a consultant. His research and association with numerous groups worldwide underscored the need for safe work conditions in coal and asbestos mines as well as other industrial settings. He did extensive research in the effects of smoking on lungs. During his career, Dr. Kleinerman served on the editorial boards of numerous notable publications including the ''American Journal of Pathology'' and ''Cancer.'' He chaired the executive committee of the distinguished American Registry of Pathology, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology from 1995-1996, and advisory committees for the Bureau of Mines U.S. Department of the Interior, National Institutes of Health and other government agencies concerning occupational health. Dr. Kleinerman is survived by three daughters. His wife of 50 years, Seretta Miller, died in 1995. The funeral will be at 11 A.M., Tuesday at Fairmount Temple, 23737 Fairmount Boulevard, Beachwood, OH 44122. Burial will be at Mayfield Cemetery in Cleveland. Material tributes may take the form of donations to the Seretta Miller Kleinerman Memorial Endowment Fund in care of Fairmount Temple. For information, Berkowitz-Kumin-Bookatz, Inc., 1800-448-2210, www.obitdetails.com
      