
        MAZER-Deirdre (nee McCorry) Age 31. Beloved wife of Kenneth Mazer. Mother of Alexander. Daughter of Terrance & Maureen McCorry. Sister to Terry & Christopher McCorry. Daughter-in-law of Lois Mazer and Richard & Rosario Mazer. Sister-in-law to Laura McCorry, Cathy & Kenny Gurny, Peggy & Barry Ogden. Friends may call Saturday, 7-9pm & Sunday 2-4pm, & 7-9pm at the Edwin Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Ave., Scarsdale, NY. Funeral Mass Monday, August 23rd. 10am St. Mary's Church, 23 South High St. Mt. Vernon, NY. 914-664-5855. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Crohn's & Colitis Fndtion, 386 Park Av. S. NYC 10016
        MAZER-Deirdre (nee McCorry) Age 31. Too young to leave us all so grief stricken. We will never forget your beauty and love. You were taken from our midst in the prime of your life. Always in our hearts. Lois Mazer, and MartinZelman Cathy and Kenny Gurny
        MAZER-Deirdre. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the loss of Deirdre Mazer, the beloved wife of Kenneth Mazer, president of the Mazer Family Fund. Mr. Mazer has embraced the philanthropic traditions of his extraordinary family through his heartfelt efforts to preserve our Jewish heritage for future generations. Under Mr. Mazer's leadership, the fourth generation of the Mazer family is perpetuating the legacy of their great-grandfather, Abraham Mazer, who was one of the distinguished founders of the United Jewish Appeal. We extend our sincerest condolences to Kenneth and his son, Alexander Dee; to Mrs. Mazer's mother and father, Maureen and Terence McCorry; and to her brothers, Terry and Christopher. We also offer our deepest regrets to Bobbie Abrams, secretary of the UJA-Federation Board of Directors, and the entire Mazer family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P. Anita Altman, Asst Exec Director, Resource Development
        MAZER-Deirdre. The Greater New York Chapter of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America extends its profound sympathy to our friend and supporter, Lois Mazer, on the tragic and untimely death of her beloved daughter-inlaw Deirdre McCorry Mazer. We extend our sympathies to the Mazer and McCorry families and hope they gain comfort in knowing so many people care. Judy Saphir, President Dan Crown, Chairman of the Board Joan Telley, Executive Director
        MAZER-Deirdre (nee McCorry). Dee. My friend, my confidant and now my angel. I will miss you terribly, but I know that you are watching and loving us just as you have always done. Yours Forever, Juliann D'Attilio
      