
        SELIGSON-David J., Dr., died on August 3, 1999, of a brief illness in his native New York City. His discerning wisdom, love of God, and abiding faith in the beauty and goodness of human beings will be missed beyond measure. His intelligence, spirit and fortitude will inspire us and give us strength, as he has inspired so many in his 92 years-as Rabbi of Central Synagogue, spirtual leader far and wide, Chaplain and Lieutenant Colonel, U.S. Army, and as our own beloved father and grandfather. Services will be held at Central Synagogue Community House, 123 East 55 St., on Friday, August 6, at Noon. Contributions may be made in his name to the Rebuilding Fund of Central Synagogue. Michelle Seligson Jill Seligson Braver Charles Braver Sally Helen Seltzer Jon David Seltzer Rachel Braver
        SELIGSON-Rabbi David J. Beloved Rabbi, esteemed teacher, adored friend. He served our Congregation for over half a century and brought dignity to each moment. He consoled us at times of national tragedy with clarion voice. With elegance he helped us face challenge. His eloquence lifted our spirits, comforted us in our sorrow, and taught us to be true to the prophetic message of our tradition. He was a great patriot who served as Rabbi, chaplain and Burra Sahib during World War II. He loved this country and the people he served who returned his affection with countless stories of his intervention on their behalf. Initially as Assistant Rabbi, then as Senior Rabbi and as Rabbi Emeritus, Dr. Seligson was mentor to the Rabbis who served with him. His continuing support for his colleagues and for the members of Central Synagogue is legendary. He served with the greatest distinction and with the constant commitment in the betterment of society. David Seligson loved our tradition and he loved the Jewish people. Always in awe of the miracle of Jewish survival, he believed that every child was a unique gift to our continuity. He will be sorely missed by generations of our members, of our Rabbis and of his friends. He enbraced us, independent of age or circumstance. His smile will always fill our lives. Services will be at Central Synagogue, Beir Chapel, noon on Friday, August 6. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President
        SELIGSON-Rabbi David J. The senior clergy of Central Synagogue who served with Rabbi David Seligson, mourn the passing of a great friend and teacher. His support for our clergy and professionl staff and his personal concern for each of us is legendary. He provided a great example as orator, counselor and teacher. The rabbinate has lost a true model of professional excellence. Rabbi Peter Rubinstein Rabbi Stanley Davids Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman Cantor Richard Botton
      