
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourn the loss of our esteemed friend, Philip M. Klutznick, an Honorary Member of Tel Aviv University's Board of Governors. Through his generosity, guidance and vision, he was instrumental in the establishment of the University's Jaffee Center for Strategic Studies, where he served as a member of its International Board of Trustees. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University Alan L. Aufzien, Chairman, Board of Directors Robert J. Topchik, President Melvin S. Taub, Chairman Emeritus Stephen Lecker, Exec. V.P.
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. The officers and staff of United Jewish Communities deeply mourn the passing of Philip M. Klutznick, former National Chairman of United Jewish Appeal and dedicated public servant. Mr. Klutznick brought dedication, generosity, and compassion to all of his work, serving as US Secretary of Commerce under President Carter and as an esteemed leader of Jewish organizations such as B'nai B'rith, the Conference of Presidents, and as Chairman of the World Jewish Congress. His indefatigable leadership of the American and worldwide Jewish community was legendary. He enriched the lives of all those he touched. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family.
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. The Program in Jewish Studies at Northwestern University mourns the death of its benefactor, Philip Klutznick. Together with his late wife, Ethel, Ambassador Klutznick supported Jewish learning and free inquiry through establishing the senior chair and a major annual lecture in Jewish Studies at Northwestern. May Thomas, Bettylu, Robert, James, Samuel and the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Jacob Lassner, Philip and Ethel Klutznick Professor of Jewish Studies Northwestern University
        KLUTZNICK-Philip M. As a founding patron, he enabled the training of ethnic peace workers through community development. Our sympathy to Thomas, Bettylu, Robert, James, Samuel and the entire family of Philip and Ethel Klutznick of blessed memory. INTERNS FOR PEACE
      