
        SIMON-Dr. Bernard E. August 1, 1999, beloved husband of the late Bitten H. Simon, loving father of Cathy and her husband Michael Palmer & John Simon. Cherished grandfather of Sarah Palmer. A Memorial Service will be announced at a later date. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Dr. Bernard E. Simon and Bitten H. Simon R.N. Scholarship Fund, at The Johns Hopkins University.
        SIMON-Bernard E., M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Bernard E. Simon, M.D., Clinical Professor of Surgery Emeritus, who was associated with Mount Sinai for more than 60 years. Dr. Simon was an internationally renowned plastic surgeon, and one of three physicians who donated their services to a group of severely disfigured atomic-bomb survivors known as the Hiroshima Maidens, who underwent reconstructive surgery at Mount Sinai. Dr. Simon was born in Brooklyn in 1912, received his medical degree from Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and joined Mount Sinai in 1937 as a Surgical Intern. As a young surgeon, he helped to establish Mount Sinai's Division of Plastic Surgery, under the late Dr. Arthur Barsky, and he served as Chief of the Division from 1965 until his retirement from active practice in 1979. In 1955, Dr. Simon, Dr. Barsky, and the late Dr. Sidney Kahn volunteered to perform 140 reconstructive procedures on 25 women from Hiroshima, Japan, who were severely disfigured in the World War II atomic bombing of their home city. The project also supported the establishment of the specialty of plastic surgery in Japan by providing funding for the training of three young Japanese plastic surgeons, one of whom later wrote the definitive textbook on plastic surgery in his country. Dr. Simon was reunited with some of the women in 1985 when he was invited to Japan for ceremonies marking the 30th anniversary of the project; again in 1995 when one of them visited Mount Sinai to mark the 40th anniversary; and most recently in 1996 when four of them attended a conference on international medical cooperation held at Mount Sinai to mark the 41st anniversary of the project. In addition to being a skilled and compassionate surgeon, Dr. Simon was a dedicated teacher and scholar throughout his career. He was the author of more than 50 papers, a member of numerous professional associations and societies, and the recipient of numerous awards, including an honorary membership in the Japanese Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons and The Jacoby Medallion, the highest honor of The Mount Sinai Alumni. Throughout his long association with Mount Sinai, Dr. Simon was a model of dedication, integrity and personal warmth, and he will be remembered not only for his professional achievements, but for his generosity of spirit. We extend sincere condolences to his children, Cathy and John Robert, to his granddaughter, Sarah, and to the entire family. Helene L. Kaplan, Chair, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chair, Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine John W. Rowe, MD, President, Mount Sinai NYU Health Barry R. Freedman, President, The Mount Sinai Hospital Joel Bauer, MD, President, Medical Board
        SIMON-Bernard E., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. A pillar of the Mount Sinai community for more than sixty years, Dr. Simon joined the staff as an intern in 1937, having placed first (out of 300) on the internship examination. When a formal residency was established in 1941 he was one of two given a position. In 1965, Dr. Simon was appointed Head of the Division of Plastic Surgery in which post he served until 1979. He then continued to teach until his retirement from practice in his eightieth year. An outstanding, devoted clinician and talented surgeon, Dr. Simon was admired and respected by his colleagues and patients, but above all, earned a special affection by his profound humanity, generosity, warm smile and gentle humor. All these qualities were demonstrated in his care for the Hiroshima Maidens (victims of the atomic blast that ended W.W. II). This was a task that he especially cherished for it was his opportunity to use his skills for truly humanitarian purposes. In 1978, the Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Simon in acknowledgment of his outstanding professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the Medical Center and the Alumni. As a clinician, his fusion of scientific skill and compassionate concern for the well-being of the individual patient has exemplified the most noble aspiration of the medical profession. A caring and beloved physician, he will be missed. Our sincere condolences are extended to his children Cathy and John Robert, and to the entire family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, Treasurer
      