
        ROSE-Frederick P., master builder and creative philanthropist, son of Samuel B. and Belle B. Rose, died at home on Wednesday, September 15, 1999. Husband of Sandra Priest Rose, father of Deborah, Jonathan F.P., Samuel Priest, and Adam Raphael Rose; brother of Daniel and Elihu; grandfather of Ariel, Rachel and Sarah leaves a legacy of enormous love, warm friendships and immense generosity. His joy of life was expressed in his work and play. The service will be held at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, NY, on Sunday, September 19, 1999 at 10AM. The family requests no flowers, and is not receiving visitors.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are greatly saddened by the passing of Frederick P. Rose, an extraordinary philanthropist and cherished friend of the Jewish community. He will be deeply missed. As a compassionate leader who embraced the philanthropic traditions of his exceptionally generous family, he enriched the lives of countless individuals through his devotion to Jewish causes, and his magnificent support of major cultural and educational institutions in New York and throughout the country. As a loving father, he has inspired a future generation of philanthropists through his exemplary efforts on behalf of the Jewish community. The naming of the Samuel Priest Rose Building, in memory of Mr. Rose's son, reflects the family's commitment to creating a permanent facility for the Jewish Community Center on the Upper West Side, and a lasting resource for a thriving, diverse Jewish population. The contributions of Mr. Rose and his wife, Sandra, will be felt for generations to come. Together, they have strengthened UJA-Federation's network of health and human-service agencies through their longtime leadership and their support of F.E.G.S., the Lexington School for the Deaf, the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds, and The Mount Sinai Medical Center. From 1974 to 1977, Mr. Rose served as president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York, a predecessor to UJA-Federation. He held numerous positions with UJA-Federation over the years. We extend our sincerest condolences to Sandra; to Mr. Rose's daughter, Dr. Deborah Rose, and his son-inlaw, Professor Jan Stolwijk; his son Jonathan and daughter-in-law, Diana; his son, Adam, and Peter McQuillan; his brother Daniel and Daniel's wife, Joanna; his brother Elihu and Elihu's wife, Susan; and the entire Rose family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P.
        ROSE-Frederick Phineas. The trustees and staff of the American Museum of Natural History are deeply saddened and shocked by the death of beloved trustee Frederick P. Rose. Few have given so unstintingly of themselves to make this city a more glorious place in which to live. The lives of all New Yorkers have been enriched by his extraordinary vision, integrity, and generosity. From the sciences and humanities to the performing arts, Fred Rose's wide-ranging and enlightened philanthropy has made all our lives brighter, our institutions stronger, and our city more vibrant. He was a unique New Yorker, a treasure who will be sorely missed. For all he has done for the Museum, for New York, and the world, and for his joy, enthusiasm, tenacity, professionalism, and expansive vision, we are deeply grateful. We are especially heartbroken that he was snatched from our midst on the eve of the opening of his extraordinary legacy, the Frederick Phineas and Sandra Priest Rose Center for Earth and Space, which embodies his deep love of intellectual pursuit, great architecture, and fine design. His spirit will be with us for the opening and beyond. To his devoted wife and adored member of the Museum family Sandy, daughter Deborah, and sons Jonathan and Adam, we extend our most profound sympathies, and promise that Fred will always be with us in our thoughts. Farewell dear friend and colleague, we shall miss you but count you with us always in our hearts. Anne Sidamon-Eristoff, Chairman Ellen V. Futter, President American Museum of Natural History
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Horace Mann Community is deeply saddened by the death of Frederick P. Rose HM'40, its cherished friend and former student, benefactor and dedicated philanthropist. Mr. Rose's discerning wisdom, his warm personality, his love of beautiful, well-crafted buildings, and his faith in the goodness of human beings will be missed beyond measure. It is a fitting tribute to Frederick Rose, to his family, and to his two brothers that the new Middle School at Horace Mann has been named Rose Hall. Generations of students and their families will benefit from this great legacy. The 1940 HM yearbook wrote: ''Ebullient Freddy bounced into Horace Mann as a Fourth Former. He sang in the Glee Club, reported for The Record, snapped photographs for The Mannikin, took notes as Secretary of the Debating Club, and played the accordion in the Music Club.'' Fred Rose's extraordinary intelligence and grace, his spirit and fortitude, and his exceptional generosity inspire us and will continue to inspire us here at Horace Mann. What he has bestowed on the School is a testament to his vision and his dedication. Cherished friend, we will miss you-a man of extraordinary talents. It was our great privilege to merit this continuing relationship with you. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, the former Sandra Priest, to his children, Deborah, Jonathan, HM'70, and Adam Raphael, HM'77 and to his brothers Daniel Rose HM'47, and Elihu Rose HM'50 and their families. Michael D. Hess '58 Chair, Board of Trustees Dr. Eileen Mullady Head of School
        ROSE-Frederick Phineas. The Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library are deeply saddened at the passing of Frederick Rose, beloved husband of our esteemed Trustee Sandra Priest Rose, and our dear friend and benefactor. For decades, Mr. Rose was a leader and supporter of educational and cultural institutions in New York City, combining his great skills as builder, businessman, and advocate with exceptional acts of philanthropy. At The New York Public Library, Mr. and Mrs. Rose were responsible for the restoration of the Deborah, Jonathan F.P., Samuel Priest, and Adam Raphael Rose Main Reading Room, the symbolic heart of the institution, named for their children. In addition, they endowed the position of the Frederick Phineas and Sandra Priest Rose Chief Librarian of the General Research Division. Deeply committed to The Branch Libraries, the Roses also made possible the rehabilitation of the Library's Yorkville and Aguilar branches. Mr. Rose's legacy to the Library is a permanent one and we will miss his warmth and vitality. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Sandy; to their children, Deborah, Jonathan, and Adam; to his brothers, Daniel and Elihu; and to the entire Rose family. Samuel C. Butler, Chairman Brooke Astor, Honorary Chairman Andrew Heiskell, Elizabeth Rohatyn, Marshall Rose, Chairmen Emeritii Paul LeClerc, President Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library
        ROSE-Frederick P. All of us at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. deeply mourn the death of one of our most beloved friends, leaders, and benefactors, Frederick P. Rose. Unmatched in loyalty and commitment, Fred served Lincoln Center in every way imaginable: As a member of the Board of Directors since 1984, later as Vice Chairman of the Board, and on myriad committees and councils. Fred committed himself fully to every important Lincoln Center program and project. His vision, professional guidance, and unparalleled generosity were instrumental in the construction of the Samuel B. and David Rose Building at Lincoln Center, named after his father and uncle. For over a decade, he served on the Lincoln Center Real Estate and Construction Council where he was twice honored. Moreover, he was the recipient of the Lincoln Center Laureate, the greatest distinction we bestow. In memory of his mother, Belle, his philanthropy showed a special concern for people with visual disabilities. He also had a profound desire to bring the performing arts to the broadest possible audiences through his funding of Live from Lincoln Center telecasts. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Sandra, a full partner in his philanthropic and civic endeavors, and to his children, Deborah, Jonathan, and Adam, and to their friends and associates. We will miss his friendship, wit, wisdom, and leadership. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the loss of our cherished friend and emeritus trustee Frederick P. Rose, an incomparable leader in the worlds of real estate and philanthropy. His generosity helped to shape many of New York City's academic, medical, and cultural institutions, including this one, where he established the Frederick P. Rose Professorship for a distinguished biologist. A member of The Rockefeller University Board of Trustees since 1984 and former chairman of its real estate committee, Fred Rose made lasting contributions to the University, helping to strengthen its research programs and modernize its physical plant. He was a wonderful advocate for the University and the work of its scientists and physicians. We will greatly miss him and forever cherish the memory of his enormous vitality, warmth, and wit. With heartfelt sorrow, we extend our condolences to his beloved wife, Sandra, and to the entire Rose family. Arnold J. Levine, President Torsten N. Wiesel, President Emeritus Joshua Lederberg, President Emeritus Richard B. Fisher, Chairman Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman Emeritus William O. Baker, Chairman Emeritus David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Officers, Board of Trustees and Staff of The Asia Society note with great sadness the death of our former Trustee and beloved friend, Frederick P. Rose. For more than two decades, Fred Rose was a strong supporter of the Asia Society and its mission, in New York and beyond. He served as a member of the Board of Trustees from 1976 to 1982, and then again from 1994 to 1997 when he was also Chairman of the Nominating Committee. With his extensive knowledge of real estate, Fred Rose was instrumental in planning and constructing the Asia Society's present headquarters at 725 Park Avenue in the 1970's. He was also a guiding force for the planned renovation of this building in the coming year. In 1991, the Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Rose Room was formally dedicated on the 8th floor of the Asia Society building. The Rose Conference Hall was dedicated in 1995, further honoring the family's high philanthropic standards and generosity. Fred Rose's bold vision and wise counsel will be greatly missed and long remembered. To his wife, Sandra, and children, we offer our profound sympathy on their loss. Maurice R. Greenberg, Chairman of the Board Nicholas Platt, President The Asia Society
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Directors, staff and clients of F.E.G.S. mourn the passing of Frederick P. Rose, a leader in philanthropy and business, past President of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York (the predecessor to UJA-Federation of New York) and husband of Sandra Priest Rose who served for many years as an Honorary member of the F.E.G.S. Board of Directors. Fred and Sandy, through their generosity, made possible the Sandra P. and Frederick P. Rose F.E.G.S. Brooklyn Center located at 199 Jay Street in Brooklyn which has provided health related and social services to thousands of needy individuals. The entire Rose family has helped to set the standard for social responsibility and civic leadership. Because of their commitment, efforts and caring, millions of New Yorkers have been given opportunities that would otherwise not have been afforded them. To Sandy and the entire Rose family we offer our heartfelt condolences. Fred will be sorely missed. Joseph Stein, Jr., President/Chair, F.E.G.S. Alfred P. Miller, Executive VP/CEO, F.E.G.S.
        ROSE-Frederick Phineas. The trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of one of our most generous and beloved supporters. Trustee Emeritus, Fred Rose, was a long time trustee, benefactor, and donor whose generosity included the largest gift for teacher training ever received by an American art museum, the endowment of a curatorship for the study of musical instruments, and, with his brothers, the creation The Rose Room within the Museum's Trustee Dining Room. He also gave generously of his time, serving on trustee committees for buildings, education, membership, and capital needs and was Founding Chairman of the Real Estate Counsel. His boundless energy and wise judgement has enriched this institution, and he will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Sandy, and to the entire Rose family. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director David E. McKinney, President
        ROSE-Frederick P. As a builder, visionary, and philanthropist, Frederick P. Rose created homes both for people and for extraordinary institutions that have enriched people's lives and enhanced the cultural, physical, and communal landscape of New York. We are privileged, and blessed, that he and his family chose to name the new home for the Jewish Community Center on the Upper West Side-the Samuel Priest Rose Building-to reflect the importance and value of building an inclusive Jewish community. We hope that all he has given will be a source of comfort to his family. His legacy of leadership is carried on through his children. Our hearts are with Sandra, Deborah, Jonathan, Adam, and their families. May his memory and the work of his life be a model and blessing for all of us. Harold R. Handler President Debby Hirshman Executive Director and the Board and Staff of the Jewish Community Center on the Upper West Side
        ROSE-Frederick P. The officers, members, and staff of The American Jewish Committee are greatly saddened by the death of Fred Rose, an esteemed member of our President's Cabinet and National Leadership Council, and a former member of the Publication Committee of Commentary Magazine. Deeply touched by the recent suffering in the Balkans, he was a generous contributor to AJC's Kosovo Relief Fund, where his benevolence and compassion will surely be felt for years to come. His abiding love of the Jewish people and his unwavering dedication to bettering the lives of peoples everywhere is witnessed by his numerous philanthropic commitments. He has left for us all a shining and enduring legacy of human kindness. We send our heartfelt condolences to his wife Sandra, his children Deborah, Jonathan, & Adam, his grandchildren & the rest of his grieving family. Bruce M. Ramer, President David A. Harris, Exec. Dir.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Philharmonic Symphony-Society, Inc., deeply mourns the passing of Frederick P. Rose, who was a tireless supporter of the Philharmonic for many years. Mr. Rose joined the Philharmonic's Board of Directors in 1980, and served for sixteen years. In recognition of his years of dedicated service on behalf of the Philharmonic, he was elected an Honorary Director of the Society. Over the past two decades, he made many generous gifts in support of the Philharmonic, including the 1992 endowment of the Mr. and Mrs. Frederick P. Rose Principal Viola Chair. His love of music and his caring legacy will long continue to enrich the lives of the entire Philharmonic family. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Sandra, and to the family Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Deborah Borda, Exec. Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Directors, artists and staff of Jazz at Lincoln Center mourn the passing of Frederick P. Rose, father of Board member and Executive Committee Chairman, Jonathan F.P. Rose. Fred's extraordinary contributions to the cultural life in this city and beyond were unparalleled and his support of Jazz at Lincoln Center will make an impact on the organization well into the future. We were honored by his involvement as a close friend and supporter, and greatly valued his singular spirit, enthusiasm and good counsel. He will be deeply missed by this organization and by the countless others to which he devoted himself throughout his life. We extend sincere condolences also to Fred's beloved wife, Sandy, and to the entire Rose family. Gordon J. Davis, Chairman Wynton Marsalis, Artistic Director Rob Gibson, Exec. Producer & Dir.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Directors and staff of the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds are greatly saddened at the passing of Frederick P. Rose. He was one of our founders, a former President and a true visionary leader. Since the late 1950s his efforts made it possible for over 6,000 children, each and every summer, to enjoy a beautiful day at camp. His accomplishments at the Campgrounds remain timeless and he will be missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Sandra and his entire family. Walter H. Blum, Hon. Chairman Thomas J. Tisch, Associate Honorary Chairman Steven M. Levy, Chairman Walter L. Harris, President Jeffrey A. Coopersmith, Executive Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Benenson Capital Company mourns the loss of our distinguished friend and partner, Frederick P. Rose. We will miss his intelligence, leadership and wit. We have 50 years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a man who was greatly dedicated to his family, business and philanthropy. Those of us who knew how special he was know the sense of loss that is shared by his family, friends and associates. Our deepest sympathy to Sandy, Adam and Jonathan. Charles B. Benenson Lawrence Benenson Bill Benenson Frederick C. Benenson Richard A. Kessler James E. Stifel
        ROSE-Frederick P. The entire Juilliard School community deeply mourns the death of Frederick P. Rose. Benefactor, visionary and leader, he was a person who had a profoundly positive impact on Juilliard and many other cultural institutions throughout the city. His generosity and leadership made Juilliard's residence hall a reality as part of the Samuel B. and David Rose Building at Lincoln Center. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Sandra, his children, and all the members of the Rose family. His ebullient personality and extraordinary presence will be missed by us all. Mary Rodgers Guettel, Chairman of the Board Joseph W. Polisi, President
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Directors, artists and staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Frederick P. Rose, a longtime patron and friend. His philanthropy and tireless support of the arts was an inspiration to many, contributing a great deal to the thriving cultural spirit of New York City. We extend our sincere condolences to his family and friends. Donaldson C. Pillsbury, Chairman Peter Frelinghuysen, President David Shifrin, Artistic Director Jacqueline M. Taylor, Executive Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York extend heartfelt condolences to our Secretary and dedicated member, Daniel Rose and the Rose family in this time of sorrow. May Frederick's legacy of philanthropy and spirit remain forever strong and bring comfort to the family. The Real Estate community and the City of New York have lost a great gentleman. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Rose family. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        ROSE-Frederick P. Dearest Sandy, I cannot find the words to tell you and your family how much Fred meant to me in so many ways, large and small. I will miss him terribly, most of all his wonderful smile, his boundless spirit, his unending generosity, and his vision of a better world. His greatest gift to me was his friendship. Peggy and Lizzie join me in all this, and in expressing our deepest sympathy and love to you and to Jonathan, Deborah and Adam and to all of your and Fred's wonderful family. Gordon J. Davis
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Directors and staff of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council wish to express our profound sadness at the passing of our esteemed colleague and former Board member. One of NYC's truly great citizens, Fred's spirit, insight, and generosity serve as a model of civic commitment and leadership. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Frances W. Magee, President Frank Braconi, Exec. Dir.
        ROSE-Frederick. The Trustees and staff of the International Center of Photography extend their sympathy to the Rose families on the passing of Frederick Rose, brother of our Chairman, Elihu Rose. His exceptional commitment and support to the culturallife of New York City will have a lasting impact on us all. Cornell Capa, Founding Director Emeritus Raymond J. McGuire, President Willis E. Hartshorn, Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. The School of American Ballet, housed in the Rose Building at Lincoln Center, notes with sorrow the death of Fred Rose, whose leadership was instrumental in building our beautiful home. The entire Board of Directors, along with Chairman Albert Bellas, President Larry Alan Smith, Chairman of Faculty Peter Martins, Executive VP Nancy Lassalle extends its deepest sympathies to the entire Rose family.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Partners, Associates and Staff of Bachner Tally & Polevoy, LLP, mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and client, Frederick P. Rose. He was a true gentleman in his professional and personal life, and a great philanthopist to numerous cultural institutions in New York City. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Sandra, and his children, Deborah, Jonathan and Adam, and their families.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Officers, Board of Trustees, Congregation and Clergy of The Jewish Center of The Hamptons, mourn the passing of Frederick P. Rose, brother of our esteemed Honorary Trustee, Daniel Rose. We extend condolences to Dan and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President
        ROSE-Frederick. The Board of Directors and members of the Association for a Better New York send heartfelt condolences to the entire Rose family. An original members and long-time supporter of ABNY, Fred will always be remembered for his leadership and service to New York City. He will be greatly missed. Lewis Rudin, Chairman Association for a Better New York
        ROSE-Frederick P. Fred's business life and his philanthropy reflected his thoughtfulness, kindness, imagination, intelligence and generosity. Our community and the world beyond are much the better because he cared. Our hearts are with Sandy, who is a Director of HTI, and who has been his partner in generosity. The Hebrew Technical Institute Seth H. Dubin, Chairman
        ROSE-Frederick. The Trustees of the Usdan Center for the Arts send our condolences to the family of Frederick Rose, a long time friend of the Center. New York as a whole will remember his generosity to our children through his support of the arts in education. Jerrold Ross, President Suzanne Usdan, Treasurer Dale Lewis, Exec Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board and staff of the Educational Alliance mourn the passing of Frederick P. Rose, father of our former Trustee and Vice President Jonathan Rose. Fred Rose led an exemplary life and excelled in his professional career and in his philanthropic commitments. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Rose family.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Real Estate Board of New York mourns the passing of its esteemed Governor and friend, Frederick P. Rose. His generosity, enthusiasm, wisdom and civic passion graced our industry and our city. We extend condolences to the Rose family. Bernard H. Mendik, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst. Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor
        ROSE-Frederick P. His friends and admirers at HEAF note with profound sadness the loss of Frederick P. Rose, an enthusiastic and early supporter. The Harlem Educational Activities Fund
        ROSE-Frederick. A kind and generous New Yorker. His extraordinary gifts and thoughtfulness will never be forgotten. Arthur Rosenblatt
        ROSE-Frederick P. I have lost one of my heroes. The world has lost a Tzadik. Heartfelt condolences to the entire Rose family. Eric S. Goldschmidt and family
      