
        CHERRY-James R. Of Chappaqua, New York, on September 16, 1999, at the age of 92. He is survived by his sister, Rosalind, his children, Kaye, Jim and Sylvie, his beloved granddaughter Justine and his long time companion, Dorothy Arnof. A memorial service will take place in New York City at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to New York University Medical CenterDepartment of Surgery-in honor of Dr. S. Arthur Localio, c/o Dr. H. Leon Pachter, 530 First Avenue, Suite 6C, New York, NY 10016.
        CHERRY-James R. Esq. On behalf of the Trustees, Faculty and Staff of New York University School of Medicine and NYU Medical Center we note with profound sorrow the passing of James R. Cherry, Esq, a devoted friend and lifetime trustee. Mr. Cherry provided invaluable guidance and advice through his many years of service to our institutions. Mr. Cherry served as a medical center trustee since 1968 and was appointed Life Trustee in 1983. During the last three decades he served on may committees including The Development Committee and The Hospital and Institute Committee where he helped steer the development of our institution to ensure its continuing leadership in medical education and healthcare. Mr. Cherry was instrumental in the establishment of the S. Arthur Localio Professorship in Surgery. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Henry R. Silverman, Chairman Board of Trustees NYU School of Medicine Robert M. Glickman, MD, Dean NYU School of Medicine Theresa A. Bischoff, President NYU Hospitals Center
        CHERRY-James R. We mourn the loss of our friend and partner James Cherry, an attorney of uncommon ability. His probing intellect and gentle guidance will be missed. We shall not see his like soon again. Hays, St. John, Abramson & Heilbron
        CHERRY-James R. I mourn the loss of my dear friend and mentor, James R. Cherry. He was a brilliant lawyer, but above all, a fine gentleman. He will be sorely missed. My sincere condolences to his family and to Dorothy. Paul Silberberg
      