
        FINKELSTEIN-Mark. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved husband of Gertrude Finkelstein, a longtime friend and esteemed member of the National Board of our Women's Division. Mr. and Mrs. Finkelstein were among the College's earliest supporters, respected members of our Society of Founders, and Guardians of the University. To Mrs. Finkelstein, to her children and to the entire family, we offer our sincere condolences. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine Alice Kent, President National Women's Division Judy R. Rosenberg, Chairperson Executive Committee
        FINKELSTEIN-Mark I. The entire membership of the Young Men's Philanthropic League are saddened by the passing of our esteemed, devoted, Trustee Mark Finkelstein. He was beloved and respected by all the people whose lives he touched. A kind, gentle, compassionate humanitarian who celebrated a joyous life for 91 years. A dedicated philanthropist, he was always the first to contribute to any and all the charities we supported. For 35 years, he served with compassion and dignity as a Member of our Board of Governors, Chairman of the Board of the Executive Committee, and supporter of the Grant and Allocations Committee. An extraordinary man whose exemplary leadership had a profound impact on all our members. We are indebted to him for all of his years of selfless service and devotion to the YMPL. He was a prince among men. Sincere condolences to his wife Gertrude and family. Stanley Banks President
        FINKELSTEIN-Mark I. With profound sadness, the Officers and Members of the Young Men's Philanthropic League Foundation mourn the loss of our esteemed Trustee, Mark Finkelstein. His good will and wise counsel were matched by his generosity as a donor to all of our causes. He was an ardent supporter of our commitment to the NYU Medical Center, as well as all the other organizations that were benefitted by our largesse. We will miss him and cherish his memory. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Gertrude and family. Stephen Dietz Chairman
        FINKELSTEIN-Mark. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member, Mark Finkelstein, and extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Gertrude, and the members of his family. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary
      