
        BRAFMAN-Sol. For more than fifty years served as a well-respected leader of various well known Jewish Organizations, died this past Friday of complications following surgery. Born in Vienna, Austria, Mr. Brafman, as a young man is credited with saving Torahs (sacred scrolls) from burning synagogues set ablaze by Nazi Stormtroopers on Kristalnacht (the night of broken glass). Soon after his arrival in the United States, Mr. Brafman enlisted in the United States Army where he fought with distinction for three years as a Sergeant in a combat infantry division stationed in the Philippine Islands. During the War, Mr. Brafman conducted a Passover Seder for 2,000 G.I.'s trapped in the Philippine jungles. After Japan's surrender, Mr. Brafman enlisted the help of Army engineers and helped rebuild the only synagogue in the Philippine Islands that had been destroyed by Allied bombing raids. Mr. Brafman is survived by four children, Rabbi Aaron Brafman of Far Rockaway, N.Y. Mrs. Malkie-Aaron-Brafman of Englewood, N.J., Mr. Benjamin Brafman of Lawrence, N.Y., Mrs. Shevy - Cooperberg - Brafman of Lawrence, N.Y.; a brother Morris Brafman of Miami, Florida; fourteen grandchildren and 22 greatgrandchildren. Mr. Brafman's wife of fifty-five years Rose FriedmanBrafman died in 1996.
        BRAFMAN-Sol. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a well-respected leader of the Jewish community, beloved husband of the late Rose Friedman Brafman and father of Benjamin Brafman, Board member of our Stern College for Women. Escaping to the U.S. from Vienna after Kristallnacht, during which he rescued several Torah scrolls from burning synagogues, Sol Brafman continued his devoted service to the Jewish people through key roles in various organizations. We extend our heartfelt condolences to children, Benjamin (and Lynda) Brafman, Rabbi Aaron Brafman, Malkie Aaron Brafman, and Shevy Cooperberg Brafman; brother, Morris Brafman; grandchildren; great-grandchildren; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        BRAFMAN-Sol. Derech Ayson Rabinical Seminary of Far Rockaway mourns the passing of one of our founders and a past President of the Yeshiva. Beloved father of Rabbi Aaron Brafman, Ben Brafman, Esq., Malky Aaron and Shevy Cooperberg. His courage and leadership have left an indelible mark on the community and institution of which he was associated. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Yechiel I. Perr, Rosh Yeshiva
      