
        ROSE-Frederick P., master builder and creative philanthropist, son of Samuel B. and Belle B. Rose, died at home on Wednesday, September 15, 1999. Husband of Sandra Priest Rose, father of Deborah, Jonathan F.P., Samuel Priest, and Adam Raphael Rose; brother of Daniel and Elihu; grandfather of Ariel, Rachel and Sarah leaves a legacy of enormous love, warm friendships and immense generosity. His joy of life was expressed in his work and play. The service will be held at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, NY, on Sunday, September 19, 1999 at 10AM. The family requests no flowers, and is not receiving visitors.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Directors, Honorary Board and Staff of The Jewish Community Centers Association of North America (JCC Association) mourn the passing of Frederick P. Rose, brother of our Past President, Daniel Rose. Our condolences to his wife Sandra and the entire Rose family. Our deepest sympathy for your great loss. Jerome B. Makowsky, Pres. Allan Finkelstein, Exec VP
        ROSE-Frederick Phineas. The Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library are deeply saddened at the passing of Frederick Rose, beloved husband of our esteemed Trustee Sandra Priest Rose, and our dear friend and benefactor. For decades, Mr. Rose was a leader and supporter of educational and cultural institutions in New York City, combining his great skills as builder, businessman, and advocate with exceptional acts of philanthropy. At The New York Public Library, Mr. and Mrs. Rose were responsible for the restoration of the Deborah, Jonathan F.P., Samuel Priest, and Adam Raphael Rose Main Reading Room, the symbolic heart of the institution, named for their children. In addition, they endowed the position of the Frederick Phineas and Sandra Priest Rose Chief Librarian of the General Research Division. Deeply committed to The Branch Libraries, the Roses also made possible the rehabilitation of the Library's Yorkville and Aguilar branches. Mr. Rose's legacy to the Library is a permanent one and we will miss his warmth and vitality. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Sandy; to their children, Deborah, Jonathan, and Adam; to his brothers, Daniel and Elihu; and to the entire Rose family. Samuel C. Butler, Chairman Brooke Astor, Honorary Chairman Andrew Heiskell, Elizabeth Rohatyn, Marshall Rose, Chairmen Emeritii Paul LeClerc, President Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library
        ROSE-Frederick P. All of us at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. deeply mourn the death of one of our most beloved friends, leaders, and benefactors, Frederick P. Rose. Unmatched in loyalty and commitment, Fred served Lincoln Center in every way imaginable: As a member of the Board of Directors since 1984, later as Vice Chairman of the Board, and on myriad committees and councils. Fred committed himself fully to every important Lincoln Center program and project. His vision, professional guidance, and unparalleled generosity were instrumental in the construction of the Samuel B. and David Rose Building at Lincoln Center, named after his father and uncle. For over a decade, he served on the Lincoln Center Real Estate and Construction Council where he was twice honored. Moreover, he was the recipient of the Lincoln Center Laureate, the greatest distinction we bestow. In memory of his mother, Belle, his philanthropy showed a special concern for people with visual disabilities. He also had a profound desire to bring the performing arts to the broadest possible audiences through his funding of Live from Lincoln Center telecasts. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Sandra, a full partner in his philanthropic and civic endeavors, and to his children, Deborah, Jonathan, and Adam, and to his brothers Daniel and Elihu, and their entire family, as well as their friends and associates. We will miss his friendship, wit, wisdom, and leadership. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Partners and Associates of Polshek Partnership Architects deeply mourn the death of Frederick P. Rose. This elegant and lively man, who, while he understood the glories of the past, was a brilliant humanist who intensely believed in the future. With his boundless enthusiasm and generosity, he supported, inspired and oversaw the creation and the construction of the Frederick Phineas and Sandra Priest Rose Center for Earth and Space. He was our muse and our friend. His memory will forever be identified with the great sphere that he and his beloved wife Sandy made possible and that will always represent his spirit of optimism. All of us who have worked with him over the past five years will miss him dearly. Our loss is inestimable. We extend our most profound and loving sympathies to Sandy, Deborah, Adam, Jonathan and all the family. James Stewart Polshek Joseph L. Fleischer Todd H. Schliemann Tyler H. Donaldson Polshek Partnership Architects
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Directors, artists and staff of Jazz at Lincoln Center mourn the passing of Frederick P. Rose, father of Board member and Executive Committee Chairman, Jonathan F.P. Rose. Fred's extraordinary contributions to the cultural life in this city and beyond were unparalleled and his support of Jazz at Lincoln Center will make an impact on the organization well into the future. We were honored by his involvement as a close friend and supporter, and greatly valued his singular spirit, enthusiasm and good counsel. He will be deeply missed by this organization and by the countless others to which he devoted himself throughout his life. We extend sincere condolences also to Fred's beloved wife, Sandy, and to the entire Rose family. Gordon J. Davis, Chairman Wynton Marsalis, Artistic Director Rob Gibson, Exec. Producer & Dir.
        ROSE-Fred P. The Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York extends its deepest condolences to the family of Fred P. Rose, whose passing leaves a tremendous void in the real estate industry. Fred distinguished the industry with his foresight, energy and generosity. While he and his family developed and built many projects that contribute to the magnificent skyline that is Manhattan, his greatest legacy will forever be his contribution to the literary and cultural world. His memory will be forever in the hearts of the citizens of New York, for he was the penultimate New Yorker. Michael Kerr, Co-Chairman Arnold Sollar, Co-Chairman Jerome Belson, President Nicholas LaPorte, Jr., Executive Director
        ROSE-Frederick. The Board of Directors and Staff of The 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Frederick P. Rose, beloved brother of Elihu Rose, board member of The 92nd Street Y. Beloved uncle of board members David Rose and Amy Rose Silverman and our dear freind. Our hearts and prayers go out to Frederick's wife Sandra Priest Rose, brother Daniel, daughter Deborah Priest as well as to sons Jonathan F.P. Priest and Adam R. Rose. Our hearts and prayers are also with Frederick's grandchildren Ariel, Rachel, and Sarah. He will be missed by all who knew him. May his memory be a blessing. Philip L. Milstein, Pres. Joseph N. Leff, Chairman Sol Adler, Exec Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Branch Libraries Council of the New York Public Library expresses its heartfelt condolences to our Chairman Sandra Priest Rose on the passing of her beloved husband Frederick P. Rose. The Rose family are great supporters of education and the arts and we so appreicate their support and devotion to New York's libraries. Mr. Rose's energy, generosity and inspiration will be missed by all of New York. We extend our deepest sympathies to Sandy and to her children Deborah, Jonathan and Adam. The Branch Libraries Council of The New York Public Library
        ROSE-Frederick P. Reading Reform Foundation of New York expresses its heartfelt sadness on the death of Frederick P. Rose. Fred's selfless generosity remains a memorial to his devotion to the education of the children of our city. The trustees, officers and staff convey our deepest condolences to his beloved Sandy, who dedicates herself to the mission of our organization, and to the entire Rose family. Sidney S. Korzenik, Chairman Aileen L. Godsick, President Leona D. Spector, Vice President Louise L. Arias, Secretary Lauren Wedeles, Exec. Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. Dearest Sandy, I cannot find the words to tell you and your family how much Fred meant to me in so many ways, large and small. I will miss him terribly, most of all his wonderful smile, his boundless spirit, his unending generosity, and his vision of a better world. His greatest gift to me was his friendship. Peggy and Lizzie join me in all this, and in expressing our deepest sympathy and love to you and to Jonathan, Deborah and Adam and to all of your and Fred's wonderful family. Gordon J. Davis
        ROSE-Frederick P. On behalf of The Graduate Center of The City University of New York, I wish to express our sadness at the passing of Frederick P. Rose, a major spirit in New York City and a generous benefactor of cultural, educational and humanitarian institutions and causes. We are deeply grateful for his generosity and extend sincere condolences to his family. Frances Degen Horowitz, President
        ROSE-Frederick P. We have lost a dear friend and an exceptional human being. Fred was a rolemodel philanthropist, a visionary civic leader with an incredible array of accomplishments, a spirited lover of art, music and life, an intellectual swordsman and the ultimate family man. We share the pain and grief of his wife Sandy, his children Deborah, Jonathan and Adam, his dear brothers Daniel and Elihu & his entire family. Eugene and Emily Grant
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board and staff of the Brooklyn Academy of Music mourn the passing of Frederick Rose, philanthropist and father of BAM Trustee Jonathan Rose. The beautiful BAM Rose Cinemas are named in honor of this great family. Karen Brooks Hopkins, President Joseph V. Melillo, Executive Producer Harvey Lichtenstein, President Emeritus
        ROSE-Frederick P. We mourn the loss of a superb business colleague and long-time friend. Fred was a rare bird of flashing wit and keen intellect. He was a visionary who created realities. His legacy of good works will serve our city and country for generations to come. We shall miss him deeply. Eugene M. Grant & Company Eugene M. Grant Richard E. Kobrin
        ROSE-Frederick P. Our hearts are deeply saddened with the passing of our dear friend Fred. To his special Sandy and all the children, grandchildren, brothers and sisters-in-law, we send our deepest sympathy and love. We cannot imagine the world without Fred and his zest for life. Rita and Philip Rosen
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Human Rights Campaign notes with sadness the passing of Frederick P. Rose, father of our friend and supporter Adam R. Rose. We extend condolences to the entire Rose family. Elizabeth Birch, Executive Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and client. Fred was a brilliant businessman, legendary philanthropist and devoted friend. His warmth and humor will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to the family. Tenzer Greenblatt LLP
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Program in Judaic Studies of Yale University mourns the passing of Frederick P. Rose, a generous benefactor to our program and to Yale University as a whole. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends.
        ROSE-Frederick P. Devoted husband, father and respected community leader and philanthropist, but above all, Fred was a trusted man of honor and a dear friend. He shall be sorely missed by all who knew him. Sheldon Solow
        ROSE-Frederick P. His friends and admirers at HEAF note with profound sadness the loss of Frederick P. Rose, an enthusiastic and early supporter. The Harlem Educational Activities Fund
      