
        PAI-Narayan B., M.D., F.A.C.S. It is with profound sorrow and a deep sense of regret that we, the Board of Trustees, Medical Staff, and the entire Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center family mourn the passing of Dr. Narayan B. Pai, Chief of Vascular Surgery, Attending Surgeon, Chairman of the Credentials Committee, and former President of the hospital's Medical Board. Dr. Pai was also Associate Professor in Surgery at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, as well as a former Governor of the American College of Surgeons and past President of the Bronx County Medical Society and Bronx County Surgical Society. Dr. Pai was widely recognized for his many contributions to the BronxLebanon cause. He was a compassionate, caring and dedicated physician and his sudden passing is certainly a tremendous loss to us. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Olga, his children Gregory, Sheela & Kiran, and his grandchildren Gregory, Richard and Gabriella. Miguel O. Martinez, Chairman, Board of Trustees Miguel A. Fuentes Jr. President and CEO Milton A. Gumbs, M.D., Vice President, Medical Affairs/Medical Director
        PAI-Narayan B., M.D., F.A.C.S. Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center's Department of Surgery is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our long-time staff member and colleague on September 6, 1999. Dr. Pai was Attending Surgeon, Chief of Vascular Surgery and Associate Director of the Department of Surgery at the BronxLebanon Hospital Center and Associate Professor of Surgery at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. A talented and superb surgeon and a great teacher of surgical residents and medical students, he will be greatly missed by his patients and colleagues. We extend our great sorrow to his wife, Olga, sons Gregory & Kiran, and daughter Sheela. Viewing will be held at Barrett's Funeral Home, 148 Dean Drive, Tenafly, New Jersey, September 8, 1999, from 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Paul H. Gerst, M.D., Director, and Staff of the Department of Surgery Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center Milton A. Gumbs, M.D., Medical Director Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center
        PAI-Narayan, M.D. The Bronx County Medical Society expresses profound sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and past President, Narayan Pai, M.D., on September 6, 1999. His unselfish devotion to his patients and his fellow physicians will always be remembered. We shall miss our colleague and dear friend and extend heartfelt condolences to his family Marilyn Pearl, M.D., President Koku Gasinu, M.D., Secretary
      