
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc A. On August 30, 1999. Marcia, his one true love whom he cherished for 30 years. Adored father of Andy Sam and Jessie. Loving son of Irving. Dearest brother of Brian and Scot. Treasured brother-in-law of Phyllis and Neil Koenig. Devoted uncle of Rebecca and Gaby. Beloved son-in-law of Claire and Morty Rothberg. 25 years of devoted service to Cablevision Systems Corp. and the Dolan family. He will live within us, and his strength and spirit will guide us always. Contributions in lieu of flowers to The Lustgarten Pancreatic Cancer Research Foundation, P.O. Box 2141, New York, New York 10116-2141.
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc A. The Board of Directors, Residents and Staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale deeply mourn the untimely death of our dear friend Marc A. Lustgarten. A creative and visionary leader in the cable and broadcast fields, Marc gave generously of his time and wisdom in support of the dignity and enhanced quality of life for the aged. Marc's involvement with The Hebrew Home, culminating with his becoming our annual honoree, reflected a lifelong commitment that he and Marcia shared of honoring ones parents. His friendship, warmth, kindness and courageous spirit shall be profoundly missed by all of us. We extend our sincere sympathy to his beloved wife Marcia, his adored children Andrew and Jessica, his devoted father Irving and the entire Lustgarten family. We hope that your shared memories of a loving and wonderful husband, father and son will bring comfort and solace to each of you at this time of sadness and loss. Milton A. Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman Daniel A. Reingold, Exec. V.P.
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc. The leadership and Entertainment, Media & Communications Division of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Marc Lustgarten, a vice chairman of Cablevision Systems Corporation, chairman of Madison Square Garden, and a steadfast supporter of UJA-Federation. He was a key player in developing Cablevision's strategy and engineered its purchase of the Garden. His wit, warmth, loyalty and kindness will be missed by his family, friends, and employees. To his wife, Marcia, his children Andrew and Jessica, his father, Irving, and to the entire family, we send our heartfelt condolences. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Edward Bleier, Marty Pompadur, Howard J. Rubenstein, Co-Chairs, Entertainment, Media & Communications Stephen D. Solender, Exec V.P. Ron Brien, Campaign Director, Entertainment, Media & Communications
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc A. Our deepest and sincerest sympathy to Marcia, Andy, Jesse and the entire Lustgarten family for Marc's untimely passing. He was the warmest, kindest, brightest and the most compassionate person that we had the pleasure of knowing. He was an outstanding business leader, but most importantly, a dear friend. His memory will live in our hearts forever. Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol
        LUSTGARTEN - Marc Arnold. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Marc Arnold Lustgarten. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Marc's valuable and constant support of the community and all who depended upon him will be an enduring legacy. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc. Marc, our most courageous and dearest friend, you will always remain in our hearts. Our love to Marcia,Andy, and Jessie. Ellen, Mark and Lacey Fox
        LUSTGARTEN-Marc. Dear Marc, thanks for the memories. Our love to Marcia, Andy, and Jessie. We will be there for you always. Love Steve, Estelle, Lee and Matt.
      