
        WINTHROP-Robert, of Upper Brookville, LI, on September 25, 1999, age 95. Husband of Floreine. Father of Theodora W. Hooton, Cornelia W. Bonnie and the late E. Amory Winthrop, two stepdaughters, Susan J. Mojonnier and Charlene R. Townsend. Grandfather of Thomas L. Higginson Jr., Elizabeth H. Rideman, Robert W. Higginson, Shelby W. Bonnie and Robert F. Bonnie. Great-grandfather of seven. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Service at Church of the Advent, Westbury, LI, Wednesday, September 29, at 12 noon. In lieu of flowers, donations to WinthropUniversity Hospital, Mineola, NY 11501 would be appreciated. For information, contact Dodge Thomas Funeral Home, Glen Cove, LI.
        WINTHROP-Robert. It is with deep sadness that the Board of Directors, Administration, and Medical Staff of Winthrop-University Hospital mourn the passing of Robert Winthrop. With an extraordinary record of volunteerism and philanthropy to our Hospital dating back 65 years, Mr. Winthrop served as an inspiration to those of us fortunate enough to count ourselves among his friends and colleagues. His financial expertise, wisdom, and devotion to supporting the ideals of Long Island's first voluntary, not-for-profit Hospital were invaluable assets to our institution. As President of the Board for 12 years and a member of numerous Board committees, his leadership was instrumental in the growth and development of Winthrop-University Hospital, renamed in 1985 to honor him for his decades of service. He will be truly missed, but never forgotten. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Floreine, his daughters, Theodora Hooton and Cornelia W. Bonnie, and their families. John H. Krumpe, Chairman, Board of Directors Daniel P. Walsh, President and Chief Executive Officer Barrett Sklar, M.D., President, Medical Staff Winthrop-University Hospital Mineola, NY
        WINTHROP-Robert. The Officers, Directors and employees of the Atlantic Salmon Federation are so saddened by the passing of our great stalwart friend, Robert Winthrop. He more than anyone symbolized the deep commitment of the Atlantic Salmon Federation to preserving wild Atlantic Salmon. A great conservationist and sportsman he fished actively and with great skill and was still actively fishing for salmon in his 90's. His friends and associates will sorely miss him. Atlantic Salmon Federation Joseph F. Cullman, 3rd. Chairman Emeritus
        WINTHROP-Robert. The Trustees and staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society mourn the passing of Life Trustee Robert Winthop. He served the organization with distinction for more than three decades, first as a Trustee from 1961-1980 and subsequently as an Honorary Trustee. In 1990, Mr. Winthrop was among a small group of extraordinary leaders to be named Life Trustee, in which role he served until his death. His wisdom and counsel will be missed. David T. Schiff Chairman of the Board of Trustees
      