
        BRUKENFELD-M. Ronald. Died peacefully the evening of September 7 at the age of 86. He was the beloved son of the late Morris and Sarah Brukenfeld and brother of the late Carl Brukenfeld, Frances Englander and Edith Hirsch. He spent his working life in the investment community, a Member of the New York Stock Exchange from 1935 to 1980 and was a former Governor of the NYSE. He continued to pursue his interest in the world of investments, going to the office past the age of 84, until the onset of his long illness. Throughout many years of his life, he had a great interest in Mt. Sinai Hospital and was a Trustee since 1961. Though diverted from his original plan to teach English literature, which he did at Columbia, he maintained throughout his life an avid interest in the written word, in books, the theatre and sports. He is survived by his longtime loving companion, Annette Edwards. He is also survived by his brother-in-law, Chester Hirsch. He was the cherished uncle of Edward and DiAnne Hirsch, John and Elizabeth Hirsch, Richard Hirsch, Dick and Mimi Brukenfeld, Jane Holzer, Betty Jane and Alan Goldboro, and was the adoring great uncle of Douglas, Karen, Elisa, Nancy, Catherine, Mark, Bruce, Carla and Rustin. A service will be held at Frank E. Campbell's at 81 Street and Madison Avenue on Monday, September 13 at 11:30AM. Interment to follow At Union Field Cemetery. Contributions in his memory may be made to Mt. Sinai and/or Columbia College, Carl M. Brukenfeld Memorial Scholarships Fund. He will be greatly missed.
        BRUKENFELD-M. Ronald. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of M. Ronald Brukenfeld, who served with distinction as a Trustee for nearly four decades. A respected member of the investment community, Mr. Brukenfeld had been a Member and Governor of the New York Stock Exchange and Mount Sinai benefited from his vast expertise and wisdom. He also was a generous long-time benefactor who made many significant gifts to Mount Sinai's numerous campaigns. He will be remembered most fondly with gratitude for his leadership, commitment, devoted service and philanthropy, and he will be profoundly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Helene L. Kaplan, Chair, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chair, Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine John W. Rowe, M.D., President Mount Sinai NYU Health Barry R. Freedman, President The Mount Sinai Hospital
      