
        CONLEY-John J., M.D. The Sisters of Charity, Board of Trustees, Physicians, Nurses and entire staff of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center of New York mourn the passing of our dear and gifted colleague, benefactor, and friend, Dr. John Conley. For over 50 years, as the Chief of Head and Neck Surgery at Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center, Dr. Conley cured thousands of patients with cancer, ameliorated pain for countless others, and educated several generations of surgeons who were inspired by the artistry and precision of his surgical technique and his remarkable medical insights. Dr. Conley was a masterful surgeon and also a prolific poet, artist and in recent years, a leader in the emerging and critical endeavor of medical ethics. Through Dr. Conley's generosity and mentoring, and in partnership with the Sisters of Charity whom he loved and respected, the John J. Conley Department of Ethics was established in 1998 at Saint Vincents. In his life, Dr. Conley achieved well deserved international recognition and acclaim for his pioneering advances in surgical oncology. More important to him, as he wrote in one of his books of poetry, ''Vocal Painting'', Dr. Conley was completely ''dedicated to the hope that man will survive his evolution and carry the ethic of respect as part of his equivalents''. We will miss him greatly but will try to emulate him through all the years of our lives. We extend our deepest sympathies to Dr. Conley's wife, Monika, other members of his family and so many others who were close to and enriched by knowing him. Sister Elizabeth Vermaelen President, Sisters of Charity Thomas A. Coleman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Karl P. Adler, M.D., President and CEO Lambert N. King, M.D. Sr. VP and Medical Director
        CONLEY-John J., M.D. The Medical Staff of St. Vincent's Hospital mourns the loss of our friend and colleague of many years. Dr. Conley came to St. Vincent's Hospital in 1946 as Chief of Head and Neck Surgery, a position he originated and held for 48 years. He served with distinction in World War II as Chief of ENT, Plastic and Maxillofacial Surgery at Tilton General Hospital, Fort Dix, NJ, and the 135 General Hospital. During his five years of military service, he pioneered techniques of maxillo-facial reconstruction in which he gained national and international renown. He was an Officer of many professional societies including President of The American Academy of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. He was the author of multiple hundreds of publications as well as many textbooks on the field of head and neck cancer. He authored a book on melanoma of the head and neck whose only cited bibliography was himself. Dr. Conley was a gifted musician and played the flute with a chamber music group. He developed an abiding interest in Ethics, funding a lecture series for the American College of Surgeons, and endowing The Department of Ethics at St. Vincent's Hospital. We will remember Dr. Conley as one of the most brilliant surgical technicians of the past half century, as well as his unbridled wit and passion for perfection in the art of surgery. We have lost a revered and admired friend, and will miss him deeply. We extend our sincere condolences to his beloved wife, Monica, and his children. Joseph M. Jabbour, M.D. President of the Medical Staff St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York
      