
        JACKSON-Lionel Stewart Sr. Former publisher of the New Haven Register and Journal-Courier Newspapers died peacefully at home in Montecito, California on September 1, 1999 after a long illness. His loving wife Patricia Hope Johnstone Jackson, sister Katherine Reece, daughters Susan Cartier, Sheila Leach and son Lionel Stewart Jackson Jr. and five grandchildren survive him. Born in New Haven on June 25, 1915, Mr. Jackson was the son of the late John Day Jackson and Rose Herrick Jackson, and was the sixth of a family of eight children. Mr. Jackson graduated from Kent School in 1933. One of his fondest memories of his years there was his membership on the rowing crew that brought the school its first ever to win in the Thames Challenge Cup at the Henley Royal Regatta in England. For fifty years prior to his retirement in 1987 Mr. Jackson was the CEO and publisher of the Jackson Newspapers based in New Haven, Connecticut. Mr. Jackson's father, John Day Jackson, purchased The Register in 1895 launching a publishing operation that was to become the New Haven region's dominant newspaper concern. Those who worked for Mr. Jackson recall him as a considerate boss who cared deeply about the newspapers, his employees and his community. ''Lionel Jackson was a gentle and thoughtful man'', said Walter J. Nester, former Vice President and General Manager at The Register, who knew Mr. Jackson for more than 40 years. ''He was devoted to the newspapers and the community they served. He enjoyed the challenge of publishing good newspapers. I know I share with many current and former employees who knew Lionel a deep sense of loss.'' Mr. Jackson was active in a wide variety of businesses, civic and cultural organizations. A list of organizations in which he served as a Director or member at one time during his life would include: the former Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, The Connecticut Public Expenditure Council, The President's Advisory Council of Quinnepiac College, Yale-New Haven Hospital, The United Way of Greater New Haven, The Salvation Army, and the Connecticut Blue Cross. Mr. Jackson also served as a Director of the Greater New Haven Chamber of Commerce, and as a member of the Central Housing Committee and the Connecticut Action Committee. He was also a strong supporter of the New Haven Symphony Orchestra, and was named as an honorary director of that organization. Mr. Jackson was an accomplished pianist who once soloed with the New Haven Businessman's Orchestra. An avid boater, Mr. Jackson often commuted alone between his summer home on outer Long Island and Connecticut. He captained his small diesel powered yacht along Intercoastal waterways between Long Island Sound and Florida on almost an annual basis. Mr. Jackson was a member of several yacht clubs, including the Devon Yacht Club of East Hampton, Long Island and one in Delray Beach, Florida. Mr. Jackson was also one of the strongest supporters of New Haven Boys Clubs, Inc. Private services will be held on Tuesday in Montecito, California. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to St. Francis Medical Foundation in Santa Barbara, California.
      