
        FINKELSTEIN-Mark I. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Cherished father of Judy Epstein and Lois Goldstein. Dear father-in-law of David Epstein and Bob Goldstein. Loving grandfather of Stephanie, Tom, Dan, Daryl and Randi. Graveside services Thursday 1:30PM at Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, N.Y.
        FINKELSTEIN-Mark I. The entire membership of the Young Men's Philanthropic League are saddened by the passing of our esteemed, devoted, Trustee Mark Finkelstein. He was beloved and respected by all the people whose lives he touched. A kind, gentle, compassionate humanitarian who celebrated a joyous life for 91 years. A dedicated philanthropist, he was always the first to contribute to any and all the charities we supported. For 35 years, he served with compassion and dignity as a Member of our Board of Governors, Chairman of the Board of the Executive Committee, and supporter of the Grant and Allocations Committee. An extraordinary man whose exemplary leadership had a profound impact on all our members. We are indebted to him for all of his years of selfless service and devotion to the YMPL. He was a prince among men. Sincere condolences to his wife Gertrude and family. Stanley Banks President
        FINKELSTEIN-Mark I. With profound sadness, the Officers and Members of the Young Men's Philanthropic League Foundation mourn the loss of our esteemed Trustee, Mark Finkelstein. His good will and wise counsel were matched by his generosity as a donor to all of our causes. He was an ardent supporter of our commitment to the NYU Medical Center, as well as all the other organizations that were benefitted by our largesse. We will miss him and cherish his memory. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Gertrude and family. Stephen Dietz Chairman
        FINKELSTEIN-Mark I. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Gertrude and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch of the Bd Paul S. Schreiber, President
      