
        DUERBECK-Heidi B. The members, counsel, associates and staff of Walter, Conston, Alexander & Green, P.C. note with profound sadness the death of our long-time member and friend, Heidi B. Duerbeck, who passed away on September 15, 1999. Heidi was born on July 19, 1947 in Duisberg, Germamy. She attended the University of Goettingen in Germany in 1967-68 and graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1968 with a Bachelor of Arts degree, Cum Laude, and in 1969 with a Master of Arts degree before earning her Juris Doctor degree in 1972 from Stanford University. At Stanford Law School she was the Articles Editor of the Stanford Journal of International Studies and the 1972 recipient of the Carl Mason Franklin Prize in International Law. In the late 1980s Heidi served on the Board of Visitors of Stanford Law School and was President of the Stanford Law Alumni Association. After practicing law with the firm of Sullivan & Cromwell for several years, Heidi joined our firm in 1977 and became a member in 1979, the first woman partner of the firm. Heidi will be remembered as a skilled and sophisticated corporate lawyer specializing in German American legal transactions. She represented a large number of prominent German industrial companies in their acquisitions, joint ventures, licensing and product distribution matters. Heidi's clients included many well-known names in the computer software, chemical, fashion and hotel industries. In addition to her law practice, Heidi was President of the German American LAw Association since 1982 and the first head of the Internation Section of Commercial Law Affiliates, one of the largest worldwide affiliations of independent law firms in the United States and around the world. Heidi also was a legal adviser to the New York State Department of Economic Development and to the New York City Chamber of Commerce with respect to the promotion of economic develpment through foreign investment in the State and City of New York and a lecturer on the legal aspects of foreign investment for the National Association of State Development Agencies. Heidi graced our firm with her intelligence, warmth, compassion and judgment. Her enthusiasm, unbounded optimism, strenth and loyalty will be greatly missed by us all. We send our heartfelt sympathies to her husband Jenik B. Radon, her daughter Kaara D. Radon and her brother, Dr. Norman Duerbeck. On behalf of the family, we request that in lieu of flowers, contributions be made to the Heidi B. Duerbeck Breast Cancer Research Fund at New York Presbyterian Medical Center, 622 West 168th Street, New York, New York 10032-3784.
        DUERBECK-Heidi B. The directors and members of Commercial Law Affiliates regret the passing of our esteemed former director Heidi Duerbeck, a partner in the New York City law firm of Walter, Conston, Alexander and Green. Ms. Duerbeck served as one of CLA's original directors from 1992-1994 and was instrumental in the establishment of CLA's International Law Section. She devoted many hours to helping CLA expand its membership base internationally and chaired numerous special efforts of CLA's international lawyers. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Jenik B. Radon and their daughter Kaara.
        DUERBECK-Heidi B. The Board of Directors, Officers and Members of German American Law Association mourn the death of our esteemed member and President since 1982. Ms. Duerbeck was an active member of the German American legal community and was principally responsible for the success of our organization in recent years. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Jenik B. Radon and their daughter Kaara. William E. O'Brien, Treasurer
      