
        ROSE-Frederick P., master builder and creative philanthropist, son of Samuel B. and Belle B. Rose, died at home on Wednesday, September 15, 1999. Husband of Sandra Priest Rose, father of Deborah, Jonathan F.P., Samuel Priest, and Adam Raphael Rose; brother of Daniel and Elihu; grandfather of Ariel, Rachel and Sarah leaves a legacy of enormous love, warm friendships and immense generosity. His joy of life was expressed in his work and play. The service will be held at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, NY, on Sunday, September 19, 1999 at 10AM. The family requests no flowers, and is not receiving visitors.
        ROSE-Frederick P. All of us at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. deeply mourn the death of one of our most beloved friends, leaders, and benefactors, Frederick P. Rose. Unmatched in loyalty and commitment, Fred served Lincoln Center in every way imaginable: As a member of the Board of Directors since 1984, later as Vice Chairman of the Board, and on myriad committees and councils. Fred committed himself fully to every important Lincoln Center program and project. His vision, professional guidance, and unparalleled generosity were instrumental in the construction of the Samuel B. and David Rose Building at Lincoln Center, named after his father and uncle. For over a decade, he served on the Lincoln Center Real Estate and Construction Council where he was twice honored. Moreover, he was the recipient of the Lincoln Center Laureate, the greatest distinction we bestow. In memory of his mother, Belle, his philanthropy showed a special concern for people with visual disabilities. He also had a profound desire to bring the performing arts to the broadest possible audiences through his funding of Live from Lincoln Center telecasts. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Sandra, a full partner in his philanthropic and civic endeavors, and to his children, Deborah, Jonathan, and Adam, and to his brothers Daniel and Elihu, and their entire family, as well as their friends and associates. We will miss his friendship, wit, wisdom, and leadership. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        ROSE-Fred P. The Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York extends its deepest condolences to the family of Fred P. Rose, whose passing leaves a tremendous void in the real estate industry. Fred distinguished the industry with his foresight, energy and generosity. While he and his family developed and built many projects that contribute to the magnificent skyline that is Manhattan, his greatest legacy will forever be his contribution to the literary and cultural world. His memory will be forever in the hearts of the citizens of New York, for he was the penultimate New Yorker. Michael Kerr, Co-Chairman Arnold Sollar, Co-Chairman Jerome Belson, President Nicholas LaPorte, Jr., Executive Director
        ROSE-Frederick Phineas. The Board and Staff of The New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of Frederick P. Rose, a steadfast friend of the Garden and a great force in the cultural life of New York City. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to his wife Sandy, his son Adam, and the entire family. Thomas J. Hubbard, Chairman Lewis B. Cullman Senior Vice Chairman Gregory Long, President
        ROSE-Frederick P. We have lost a dear friend and an exceptional human being. Fred was a rolemodel philanthropist, a visionary civic leader with an incredible array of accomplishments, a spirited lover of art, music and life, an intellectual swordsman and the ultimate family man. We share the pain and grief of his wife Sandy, his children Deborah, Jonathan and Adam, his dear brothers Daniel and Elihu & his entire family. Eugene and Emily Grant
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Trustees, the Advisory Board, and the Staff of the Rye Free Reading Room mourn the death of Frederick P. Rose. He was our friend and advisor. We will miss Fred's sense of humor, his spirit and his interest in the library. We send our deepest sympathy to his wife Sandy and her family. Martin L. Edelman, President Board of Trustees
        ROSE-Frederick P. We mourn the loss of a superb business colleague and long-time friend. Fred was a rare bird of flashing wit and keen intellect. He was a visionary who created realities. His legacy of good works will serve our city and country for generations to come. We shall miss him deeply. Eugene M. Grant & Company Eugene M. Grant Richard E. Kobrin
        ROSE-Frederick P. What a joy it was to work with Fred on the Lincoln Center Rose Building and the New York Public Library Rose Reading Room. Thank you, Mr. Anonymous, you can never be replaced. Lewis Davis Nat Hoyt Anne Asher Davis Brody Bond-Architects
        ROSE-Frederick P. Your boundless energy, your wit, your loyalty, your friendship were without equal. We shall miss you til we meet some day in the great arboretum. Our love and strength go to Sandy, Jonathan, Adam and Deborah. Marvin and Diana Chudnoff and Family
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Trustees of the New York Hall of Science extend their deepest sympathies to Sandra and the Rose family as they mourn the loss of Frederick. New York is richer for his leadership, vision, and generosity. Ivan G. Seidenberg, Chairman Alan J. Friedman, Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and client. Fred was a brilliant businessman, legendary philanthropist and devoted friend. His warmth and humor will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to the family. Tenzer Greenblatt LLP
        ROSE-Frederick P. Although your star has set, your vision and leaderhsip has enabled countless others to rise in its place. We mourn the loss of a force of nature and of a friend. Neil deGrasse Tyson and family
      