
        McGINN-Joseph T., Sr., M.D. Of Breezy Point, Queens, on September 10 at home at age 74. Devoted husband of Rosemary (nee Smith) for 47 years. Beloved father of Rosemary Astakhova, Joseph Jr., M.D., William, Maryellen Power, Thomas, M.D., Clare Carrubba and Bryan. Son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Joseph McGinn of Stapleton, Staten Island. Dear brother of Dr. Thomas McGinn and Dr. Marion Patricia Warunek. Grandfather to 14, uncle and great-uncle to many more. Joe was a grateful graduate of Xavier High School in Manhattan (Class of '41); received his bachelor's from Fordham University and his medical degree from the State University of New York Health Science Center of Brooklyn (Downstate Medical School). He was a veteran of World War II and a lifelong aficionado of model trains. Throughout his career, Joe McGinn was a leader in both internal medicine and nephrology. He pioneered use of the artifical kidney machine (hemodialysis) in New York, developing and directing the dialysis units at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn and later at Staten Island University Hospital. He was Director of Medicine at Staten Island University Hospital and a founding member of the Kidney Association of Staten Island. In May, 1998, Staten Island University Hospital awarded Dr. McGinn its Career Achievement Award in recognition of over 45 years of exemplary teaching and mentoring in the clinical practice of medicine. Most recently, Dr. McGinn played a key role in developing the Coumadin AntiCoagulation Center at Staten Island University Hospital, which provides more than 500 patients with safe, effective treatment for vascular disorders. Dr. McGinn was certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine and a Fellow of the American College of Physicians. As Associate Professor of Medicine at Downstate, he taught generations of medical students and residents internal medicine, receiving numerous student awards for teaching excellence. Last month, he received the Downstate Division of Ambulatory Care Education annual faculty award for ''outstanding contributions and dedication to medical student education.'' Viewing Monday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at Clavin Funeral Home, 7722 4th Ave., Brooklyn. Mass of Christian Burial 11 AM, Tuesday, at St. Thomas More Church, Breezy Point, Queens, NY. Donations in Dr. McGinn's memory may be made to Xavier High School Scholarship Fund or SUNY Health Science Center, Brooklyn, Medical Student Scholarship Fund, both c/o Lorainne Loprete, Dept. of Medicine, Staten Island University Hospital, 475 Seaview Ave., Staten Island, NY 10305.
      