
        GARFUNKEL-J. Harold, 93, on Sept 21, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Florence Rubin Garfunkel, cherished father of Marjorie Baker Bachrach and Robert Lee Bachrach and Deborah G. Bloch and Robert W. Bloch; adored grandfather of Jeffrey M. Bachrach, Alexandra Bloch Jeydel and the late Clifford Bachrach; loving great grandfather of Adam, Daniel and Eric; dear brother of Florence Roswell and Julian Garfunkel and the late Esther Gottesman, Elsie Gottesman and Mildred Levy. Mr. Garfunkel, retired President of J.H. Garfunkel & Co., originally a textile firm founded in 1892 and for the past forty years a private investment company, was a pioneer in mental health rehabilitation. In the latter capacity he was instrumental in the establishment of programs for shifting the intake from tuberculars to the mentally ill, thus establishing sheltered workshops for them. He was a longtime trustee and officer of Altro Health and Rehabilitation Services, an agency of the former Federation of Jewish Philanthropies now UJA-Federation, of which he was a Life Trustee. He was a founder of Overing House, a half-way house for the mentally ill. Mr. Garfunkel was a Founding Member of the Society for the Advancement of Judaism in 1922, the Jewish Reconstructionist Foundation in 1940 and in 1968 the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College. Born in New York City, Mr. Garfunkel was educated at Townsend Harris High School and New York University. Friends may call only at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St Wednesday, Sept. 22nd from 7:30 9:30 P.M. Funeral service will be held Thursday Sept 23rd at 2 P.M. at funeral home. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to UJA-Federation, 130 East 59 St., New York, New York 10022.
        GARFUNKEL-J. Harold. The Board of Governors, Faculty, Staff and Students of the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Wyncote, PA. acknowledge with a sense of profound loss the death of one of the founders of Reconstructionist Judaism, and its principal institutions-the Society for the Advancmenent of Judaism, the Jewish Reconstructionist Federation and the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College. His courageous leadership brought spirit and wisdom to the Reconstructionist movement from its earliest days, and he remained a pillar of strength for reconstructionism throughout his life. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family.
      