
        TRUSSELL-Ray E., M.D., MPH. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with great sadness the death of our highly esteemed friend and colleague, Dr. Ray Trussell, General Director of Beth Israel from 1968 to 1978, and General Director Emeritus and honorary member of the Board of Trustees thereafter. Dr. Trussell was a guiding force of Beth Israel during a critical period in its history, and was instrumental in the institution's evolution into a very highly respected academic medical center. His steadfast dedication to serving the diverse healthcare needs of all segments of the community led to the growth of many clinical programs at Beth Israel. A physician-epidemiologist by training, Dr. Trussell spent his career in service to the public. He served as Commissioner of Hospitals of the City of New York and Executive Director of the School of Public Health of Columbia University in the 1950's and 1960's. This great man leaves a tremendous legacy. His commitment and his contributions to our medical center will never be forgotten. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Dr. Trussell's wife, Beth Davis Trussell, M.D., his family and their loved ones. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Continuum Health Partners and Beth Israel Robert G. Newman, M.D., President and CEO, Continuum Health Partners Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President and CEO, Beth Israel Henry Singman, M.D., President, Medical Board Robert Salant, M.D., President, Doctors' Alumni Association
        TRUSSELL-Ray E., MD, MPH. The Faculty, alumni, students and staff of Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health mourn the passing of former Dean Ray E. Trussell. Serving with distinction from 1955 through 1968, he was a major force for many years on issues of importance in city, state and federal public health care delivery. While serving as dean and as Commissioner of Hospitals, he was responsible for the education of a generation of hospital and public health administrators, and we are deeply grateful to have benefited from his leadership. To his wife, Elizabeth Davis Trussell, MD, we extend our deepest sympathy. Allan Rosenfield, MD Dean Mailman School of Public Health Columbia University
        TRUSSELL-Ray E., M.D., MPH. It is with a sense of enormous personal loss that we mourn the death of Ray E. Trussell, colleague, mentor and, above all, friend. To his wife, Beth, and all the many people who loved and admired Ray, our sincere condolences. Bob and Seiko Newman
      