
        PESSO-Charles. The Sephardic Temple, Congregation Emeth VeShalom of Cedarhurst, N.Y., & the Sisterhood of the Sephardic Temple, record with deep regret the sudden and tragic passing of Charles Pesso, President of the Congregation. A Founder of the congregation, he served in every capacity and on almost every committee. His dedication to the Sephardic Temple was exemplary. A proud Sephardic Jew whose philanthropic involvement reached every corner of our community, he labored indefatigably in the vineyard of our people. A humanitarian par excellence, his yeoman efforts on behalf of a host of institutions and activities earned for him an extraordinary place within the leadership of Sephardic Jewry. During the past three and a half decades he guided and assisted others in guiding the destiny of our beloved congregation. His direction, goal and purpose were ideal, addressing the contemporary needs of Sephardic Jewish survival in our country. His contributions to that end are manifest in the activities and reputation of our congregation. Warmest condolences to his sister Rachel Haleo, her husband Hy, his niece Ellen Moore, her husband Michael, and nephew Dr. Steven Haleo. May the family and Congregation be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Funeral services at Boulevard Chapel, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, NY, Friday, Sept. 3rd at 9:30 AM Rabbi Arnold B. Marans Isaac J. Russo Chairman of the Board Estelle Ezratty Sisterhood President
        PESSO-Charles. It is with profound sorrow we record the untimely passing of our esteemed colleague and dedicated member of the Sephardic Home Board of Directors and Editor-in-Chief of the Home News. His humanitarian concern and generosity profoundly benefited the lives of many. He was a past-President and active member of the Humanity Club, which made generous contributions to the Sephardic Home. An active participant in the affairs of the Sephardic community, he was cognizant of the special needs of our elderly and infirm. His religious training and conviction led him to take an active role in the community. We extend sincere condolences to his sister, Rachel Haleo and husband Hy, brother, Jack Condiotti, niece Ellen Moore and husband Michael, and Dr. Steven Haleo, nephew. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Sephardic Home and Ladies Auxiliary (LASHA) Robert A. Cohen, Pres. Ralph J. Kamhi, Chr. of Board Michael New, Exec. Dir. Marion Crespi, Pres. LASHA Reggie Goldberg, Chr. of Board
        PESSO-Charles. The New Lots Post of the American Legion, Post #
      