
        ROSE-Frederick P., master builder and creative philanthropist, son of Samuel B. and Belle B. Rose, died at home on Wednesday, September 15, 1999. Husband of Sandra Priest Rose, father of Deborah, Jonathan F.P., Samuel Priest, and Adam Raphael Rose; brother of Daniel and Elihu; grandfather of Ariel, Rachel and Sarah leaves a legacy of enormous love, warm friendships and immense generosity. His joy of life was expressed in his work and play. The service will be held at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, NY, on Sunday, September 19, 1999 at 10AM. The family requests no flowers, and is not receiving visitors.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Officers and Fellows of Yale University on the sad occasion of the death of Frederick Phineas Rose express heartfelt sympathy to his devoted family members, his wife, Sandra Priest Rose; his brothers, Daniel and Elihu Rose; and his children, Deborah, Jonathan, and Adam Rose. Frederick Rose will have a cherished place in our memory and that of the University he loved so well, as a reflection of his lifetime of devoted service, visionary guidance and great generosity. Since his graduation from Yale in 1944 with a bachelor's degree in civil engineering, and throughout an active life as an entrepreneur, builder, volunteer and philanthropist in New York City, Frederick Rose remained close to Yale and staunchly committed to the fulfillment of its mission in adherence to the highest standard of excellence. He helped guide the creation of the Association of Yale Alumni and chaired its first Board of Governors; he was a member of the University Council; and he served as a successor trustee on the Yale Corporation, the University's governing body, where he was a leading supporter of the University's building renovation program. He supported teaching and learning at Yale through the creation of endowed professorships, scholarships at the Schools of Architecture and Music, the AYA's Community Service Fellowships, the Humanities in Medicine program and other projects. His many awards and honors include the Yale Medal and the Medal of Honor from the Yale Science and Engineering Society. Yale bestowed an honorary degree on this distinguished and beloved alumnus in May 1998, saluting him thus: ''Builder and philanthropist, you have left your mark indelibly on your university and your city...We take great pride in your service to scholarship and the arts as we confer upon you the degree of Doctor of Humane Letters.'' We mourn the passing of a true and devoted friend. Richard C. Levin, President The Officers and Fellows of Yale University
        ROSE-Frederick Phineas. The Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library are deeply saddened at the passing of Frederick Rose, beloved husband of our esteemed Trustee Sandra Priest Rose, and our dear friend and benefactor. For decades, Mr. Rose was a leader and supporter of educational and cultural institutions in New York City, combining his great skills as builder, businessman, and advocate with exceptional acts of philanthropy. At The New York Public Library, Mr. and Mrs. Rose were responsible for the restoration of the Deborah, Jonathan F.P., Samuel Priest, and Adam Raphael Rose Main Reading Room, the symbolic heart of the institution, named for their children. In addition, they endowed the position of the Frederick Phineas and Sandra Priest Rose Chief Librarian of the General Research Division. Deeply committed to The Branch Libraries, the Roses also made possible the rehabilitation of the Library's Yorkville and Aguilar branches. Mr. Rose's legacy to the Library is a permanent one and we will miss his warmth and vitality. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Sandy; to their children, Deborah, Jonathan, and Adam; to his brothers, Daniel and Elihu; and to the entire Rose family. Samuel C. Butler, Chairman Brooke Astor, Honorary Chairman Andrew Heiskell, Elizabeth Rohatyn, Marshall Rose, Chairmen Emeritii Paul LeClerc, President Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library
        ROSE-Frederick P. All of us at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. deeply mourn the death of one of our most beloved friends, leaders, and benefactors, Frederick P. Rose. Unmatched in loyalty and commitment, Fred served Lincoln Center in every way imaginable: As a member of the Board of Directors since 1984, later as Vice Chairman of the Board, and on myriad committees and councils. Fred committed himself fully to every important Lincoln Center program and project. His vision, professional guidance, and unparalleled generosity were instrumental in the construction of the Samuel B. and David Rose Building at Lincoln Center, named after his father and uncle. For over a decade, he served on the Lincoln Center Real Estate and Construction Council where he was twice honored. Moreover, he was the recipient of the Lincoln Center Laureate, the greatest distinction we bestow. In memory of his mother, Belle, his philanthropy showed a special concern for people with visual disabilities. He also had a profound desire to bring the performing arts to the broadest possible audiences through his funding of Live from Lincoln Center telecasts. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Sandra, a full partner in his philanthropic and civic endeavors, and to his children, Deborah, Jonathan, and Adam, and to their friends and associates. We will miss his friendship, wit, wisdom, and leadership. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Directors, artists and staff of Jazz at Lincoln Center mourn the passing of Frederick P. Rose, father of Board member and Executive Committee Chairman, Jonathan F.P. Rose. Fred's extraordinary contributions to the cultural life in this city and beyond were unparalleled and his support of Jazz at Lincoln Center will make an impact on the organization well into the future. We were honored by his involvement as a close friend and supporter, and greatly valued his singular spirit, enthusiasm and good counsel. He will be deeply missed by this organization and by the countless others to which he devoted himself throughout his life. We extend sincere condolences also to Fred's beloved wife, Sandy, and to the entire Rose family. Gordon J. Davis, Chairman Wynton Marsalis, Artistic Director Rob Gibson, Exec. Producer & Dir.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound regret at the loss of Frederick P. Rose of New York City. He was a Technion Guardian who had reached the highest level of commitment to the Technion, the ATS and Israel. Together with his brothers Daniel and Elihu, he established the David Rose Research Center for Physics of Quantum Structures at the Technion in memory of their uncle David Rose, a legendary ATS supporter. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Rose family. American Society for TechnionIsrael Institute of Technology Lawrence S. Jackier, President Irving A. Shepard, Chairman of the Board Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Jonathan Sohnis, Chair, New York Metropolitan Region
        ROSE-Frederick P. The trustees, faculty, administration, staff, alumni and students of Manhattanville College express profound sorrow at the passing of longtime friend of the college, and husband of 51 years of alumna and former trustee Sandra Priest Rose. We join in expressing our deepest condolences to Sandy and to the entire Rose family. We have lost a friend whose intelligent counsel, gracious demeanor, wit, charm and generosity left an enduring impact on the college and on many of us personally. We will miss him. Richard A. Berman, President Rev. Dr. James A. Forbes, Chairman, Board of Trustees Sally Rogers and Patricia McCann, Co-Presidents, MCAA
        ROSE-Frederick P. The entire Juilliard School community deeply mourns the death of Frederick P. Rose. Benefactor, visionary and leader, he was a person who had a profoundly positive impact on Juilliard and many other cultural institutions throughout the city. His generosity and leadership made Juilliard's residence hall a reality as part of the Samuel B. and David Rose Building at Lincoln Center. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Sandra, his children, and all the members of the Rose family. His ebullient personality and extraordinary presence will be missed by us all. Mary Rodgers Guettel, Chairman of the Board Joseph W. Polisi, President
        ROSE-Frederick P. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow at the untimely passing of an industry legend, Frederick Rose. He left and indelible mark upon our industry and as such he will be remembered forever. May his memory be a blessing. The Principals of Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. William G. Cohen Ronald E. Goldberger Barry M. Gosin Aaron Gural Jeffrey Gural James D. Kuhn Arthur H. Lerner Marlene Post Arthur Rosenbloom
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum note with deep sadness the passing of our long time friend and generous donor, Fred Rose. He was a vital force in the cultural fabric of New York's life and philanthropy, and his enthusiastic encouragement will be missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Sandra, his brothers, Daniel and Elihu, a member the Museums Board Trustess, his children, Deborah, Jonathan, and Adam, his entire familyi and his many friends. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Eldridge Street Project mourn the passing of Frederick P. Rose, brother-inlaw of our Trustee, Joanna S. Rose, and extend sincere condolences to Sandra, Dan, Elihu, Jonathan, Deborah, Adam and the entire Rose family. Mr. Rose was a kind and generous supporter of the Eldridge Street Project, and his contributions to the civic and cultural life of New York were immeasurable. Michael Weinstein, Chairman Roberta B. Gratz, Pres Emeritus Lorinda Ash, President Amy E. Waterman, Exec Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Advisory Board and staff of The Enterprise Foundation extend sincere condolences to our board member Jonathan F.P. Rose and his family in this time of great sorrow. Frederick Rose was a man of vision, a builder of communities and a believer in people. His contributions to the city are a remarkable legacy. Our deepest sympathy for your loss. The Enterprise Foundation Andrew High School Dorothy Cullman David Callard Bill Frey Bart Harvey
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Trustees and Staff of The New York City Police Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Frederick P. Rose, father of Board member, Adam R. Rose. His extraodinary contributions to the educational, cultural and civic communities of New York City leave an enduring legacy. We are all enriched by his creative philanthropy for the many institutions he supported. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his wife Sandra, to Adam and the entire Rose family. George D. Benjamin, Chairman Pamela D. Delaney, President NYC Police Foundation, Inc.
        ROSE-Frederick P. Reading Reform Foundation of New York expresses its heartfelt sadness on the death of Frederick P. Rose. Fred's selfless generosity remains a memorial to his devotion to the education of the children of our city. The trustees, officers and staff convey our deepest condolences to his beloved Sandy, who dedicates herself to the mission of our organization, and to the entire Rose family. Sidney S. Korzenik, Chairman Aileen L. Godsick, President Leona D. Spector, Vice President Louise L. Arias, Secretary Lauren Wedeles, Exec. Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. Dearest Sandy, I cannot find the words to tell you and your family how much Fred meant to me in so many ways, large and small. I will miss him terribly, most of all his wonderful smile, his boundless spirit, his unending generosity, and his vision of a better world. His greatest gift to me was his friendship. Peggy and Lizzie join me in all this, and in expressing our deepest sympathy and love to you and to Jonathan, Deborah and Adam and to all of your and Fred's wonderful family. Gordon J. Davis
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Department of Musical Instruments at The Metropolitan Musuem of Art, its Visiting Committee, and the Amati, Friends of Musical Instruments acknowledge with sorrow the death of Frederick P. Rose. His friendship, wise counsel, humor, and unflagging support will be enormously missed by all who knew him. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Mrs. Rose and family. J. Kenneth Moore Frederick P. Rose Associate Curator in Charge
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Trustees and Staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the passing of Frederick P. Rose, a generous Patron and brother-inlaw of our beloved Trustee, Susan W. Rose. As one of New York's most esteemed philanthropists, he was a driving force in the cultural life of the City and an inspiration to us all. We extend our deepest sympathies to all the members of the Rose family. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weill, Chairman Franz Xaver Ohnesorg, Executive Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. Our heartfelt condolences on the passing of Frederick P. Rose. He was a valued family friend, brilliant businessman and extraordinary philanthropist. As a fellow Trustee of the American Museum of Natural History, I will miss your dedication, enthusiasm and encouragement. Most of all, I will miss your good humor and knowing grin. Our thoughts are with Sandra, Deborah, Adam and Jonathan at this sad time. Karen and William Lauder
        ROSE-Frederick P. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff extend our heartfelt condolences to Elihu Rose, the husband of our esteemed Board member, Susan, on the passing of his brother, Fred. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Sandra, and the entire family. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman, Co-Chairmen Herman S. Sandler, President Albert Schussler, Pres. Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Partners, Associates and Staff of Bachner Tally & Polevoy LLP, mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and client, Frederick P. Rose. He was a true gentleman in his professional and personal life, and a great philanthopist to numerous cultural institutions in New York City. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Sandra, their children, Deborah, Jonathan and Adam, his brothers, Daniel and Elihu, and the entire Rose family. Bachner Tally & Polevoy LLP
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Directors, Residents, and Staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the death of Frederick P. Rose, a true and valued friend of the Home. We extend to his wife Sandra, and the entire Rose family, our sincere condolences and our prayers that they will find comfort in the love of family and friends. Board of Directors The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale
        ROSE-Frederick P. The editors and staff of ''Commentary'' are greatly saddened by the death of Frederick P. Rose, staunch friend of the magazine, member of its Publication Committee for over 3 decades, and chairman from 1977 to 1984. His support and counsel will be sorely missed. We extend our deep sympathies to his wife Sandra and to the Rose family. Neal Kozodoy, Editor Robert L. Pelz, Chairman Publication Committee
        ROSE-Frederick P. The partners and staff of Margold Ersken Wang and Lieb, LLP, mourn the passing of our long time client and friend, Frederick P. Rose. We value the sixty year relationship between our organizations. Fred was a person of great integrity and generousity, and we shall all feel the loss that his passing brings. Our sincere condolences to his wife Sandra, and his children Deborah, Jonathan and Adam, and the entire Rose family.
        ROSE-Frederick P. We have lost a dear friend and an exceptional human being. Fred was a rolemodel philanthropist, a visionary civic leader with an incredible array of accomplishments, a spirited lover of art, music and life, an intellectual swordsman and the ultimate family man. We share the pain and grief of his wife Sandy, his children Deborah, Jonathan and Adam, his dear brothers Daniel Elihu & his entire family. Eugene and Emily Grant
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Trustees and staff of the Riverdale YMYWHA mourn the death of a great builder of homes and uplifter of lives, the beloved brother of our esteemed Past President, Daniel Rose. May the Rose family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and may they be spared further sorrow. Judy Kaufthal, President Jeffrey Moerdler, Chair Diane Rubin, Exec. Dir.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Trustees of Chess-in-the-Schools are greatly saddened by the death of our esteemed trustee and generous patron, Fred Rose. His love of chess and determination to use the game for the benefit of needy children are an inspiration to us all. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Lewis B. Cullman, Chairman Allen Kaufman, Executive Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. The AntiDemfamation League mourns the passing of Frederick P. Rose, a generous supporter of the League, an outstanding Jewish philanthropist and humanitarian. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Sandra, and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Rent Stabilization Association of New York mourns the passing of our esteemed member, Frederick P. Rose. His commitment to integrity and professionalism in the real estate industry was an inspiration to all. We extend our condolences to his family. Joseph Strasburg and the Board of Directors of the Rent Stabilization Association
        ROSE-Frederick P. We are saddened by the loss of our friend and long-time associate. Fred's enthusiasm and generous nature will long be remembered. To Sandy and the children go our heartfelt condolences. Jack and Lewis Rudin together with our families and members of the Rudin Management Executive Committee
        ROSE-Frederick P. On behalf of New York University, its Real Estate Institute, and its Advisory Board, we express our sincere condolences to the Rose family. Fred Rose was a valued friend of the Real Estate Institute, a Member of the Advisory Board and recipient of its Urban Leadership Award. We will miss his leadership and counsel. D.K. Patton, Director
        ROSE-Frederick P. We mourn the loss of a superb business colleague and long-time friend. Fred was a rare bird of flashing wit and keen intellect. He was a visionary who created realities. His legacy of good works will serve our city and country for generations to come. We shall miss him deeply. Eugene M. Grant & Company Eugene M. Grant Richard E. Kobrin
        ROSE-Frederick P. Fred's business life and his philanthropy reflected his thoughtfulness, kindness, imagination, intelligence and generosity. Our community and the world beyond are much the better because he cared. Our hearts are with Sandy, who is a Director of HTI, and who has been his partner in generosity. The Hebrew Technical Institute Seth H. Dubin, Chairman
        ROSE-Fred. The Teachers College community and Trustees mourn the loss of Fred Rose, beloved brother of our esteemed honorary Trustee, Elihu Rose, and extend their deepest sympathies to Sandra Priest Rose and the entire Rose family. Arthur E. Levine, President Teachers College Columbia University
        ROSE-Frederick P. The attorneys and staff of Hofheimer Gartlir & Gross, LLP, extend their heartfelt condolences to the family of Frederick P. Rose, a longtime and loyal client and friend. New York has truly lost a special person, a man with extraordinary vision for the future, and generosity that will endure as a legacy to his family and his city.
        ROSE-Frederick. Costas Kondylis and Harold Amore of Costas Kondylis Associates, PC, Architects, extend their deepest sympathy on the loss of Mr. Frederick P. Rose. To his immediate family and business associates. Frederick distinguished himself as a great builder but most of all he had a profound sense for civic pride.
        ROSE-Frederick P. The family and staff of Samuel M. Berman Company, Inc. are deeply saddened by the loss of Frederick P. Rose. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Rose family. Miriam E. Berman Alan S. Berman Patricia A. Berman
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Real Estate Board of New York mourns the passing of its esteemed Governor and friend, Frederick P. Rose. His generosity, enthusiasm, wisdom and civic passion graced our industry and our city. We extend condolences to the Rose family. Bernard H. Mendik, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        ROSE-Frederick P. A man of integrity, perspicacity & philanthropy who will be sorely missed. Indeed, a man for all seasons. His deeds will be remembered by future generations. Sincere condolences to his wife, children and the Rose family. Leslie J. Garfield
        ROSE-Frederick P. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Frederick P. Rose. A man of broad vision and the greatest integrity, Fred will be greatly missed. We offer our deep personal condolences to his wife Sandra, his children, grandchildren, and brothers. Elma and Milton Gilbert
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board and staff of WNYC Radio are deeply saddened by the loss of patron Frederick P. Rose. His generosity and friendship will be greatly missed. Our condolences to the entire Rose family. Laura R. Walker, President/CEO Eduardo G. Mestre, Chair
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Directors of OrigamiUSA mourns the passing of its friend, longtime member and enthusiastic supporter, and extends sympathy to his family. Jean Baden-Gillette, Pres. OrigamiUSA
        ROSE-Frederick P. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Frederick P. Rose, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Paul N. Gardner, President
        ROSE-Frederick P. The partners and staff of Goldfarb & Fleece note with sadness the passing of our good friend and client, Frederick P. Rose, and extend to his family our deepest sympathy on their loss.
        ROSE-Frederick P. His friends and admirers at HEAF note with profound sadness the loss of Frederick P. Rose, an enthusiastic and early supporter. The Harlem Educational Activities Fund
        ROSE-Frederick. A man of boundless kindness & generosity. It was an honor to have known him. Sincere condolences to the Rose family. Charles Uribe
        ROSE-Frederick P. We mourn the loss of a dear friend. Jean and Ed Sadowsky
      