
        KARAGHEUSIAN-Leila, a philanthropist and president of the Howard Karagheusian Commemorative Corporation, died on September 6, in her home. She was 96. For 66 years, Ms. Karagheusian was President of the foundation founded by her parents, Mihran and Zabelle Karagheusian, in 1921, in memory of their son, Howard, who was stricken by influenza during the worldwide epidemic of 1918. Her father was a successful manufacturer of carpets under the name of Gulistan. In 1922, Ms. Karagheusian was graduated from Barnard College, and subsequently pursued social work at the Columbia University School of Social Work. Many charitable organizations in New York City were on her list for contributions, she was most active in this regard and established an endowment at Columbia University School of Social Work. Upon her being elected president of the foundation in 1933, she continued what her father had started in 1921, that is, Mr. Karagheusian established an orphanage in Constantinople for Armenian orphan children: Leila began to emphasize more intensive attention to health, medical and social programs for Armenian refugee children and their families residing in Greece, Lebanon and Syriavictims of the Turkish massacres that took place during the First World War. Pediatric clinics, social centers and school health programs were established in those countries. This was all done without regard to the race, religion or ethnic group of any needy children, and that credo exists to the present day. Low income housing was initiated in Greece, Lebanon and Syria in order to uplift the families of refugee Armenians. The Foundation, was the first to provide vaccinations to children and be concerned with their nutrition. In 1988, Ms. Karagheusian made a substantial donation for Armenian relief immediately after the devastating earthquake. In 1992, she approved establishing dental clinics for children in Armenia. Up to that time, preventive dentistry did not exist in the countries of the former Soviet Union. But she insisted that all dental supplies, equipment and technology be American. Tens of thousands of children, over the years, have been treated, clothed, fed and housed. She was a very modest person, shunning all publicity, and was intolerant of those who did a lot of talking but did nothing. Her motto was ''Get it done.'' She was a lifelong member of the Armenian General Benevolent Union, and was a member of the Jinishian Memorial Program. She never married.
      