
        SULLIVAN-William Mayo. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sadness the death of our very dear friend, Bill Sullivan, whose commitment to the Metropolitan Opera spanned nearly half a century of participation in the life of our company. Bill joined the Opera Club in 1950, served as president of the Club from 1967 through 1970, and as a Director of the Association since 1969, including service as a Managing Director from 1975 through 1980 and as an Advisory Director since 1980. Bill's caring and thoughtful stewardship of the Board's Benevolent Committee for more than a decade reflected his devotion to members of our company. He will be long remembered for his quiet kindnesses to so many in the Met family and his passion for opera at the Met, drawn from his love of music, his knowledge of Met history and his friendships backstage, as well as with artists performing with our company. We recall with deep affection Bill's joy at being at the Opera House, his gentle presence at opening nights, premieres and most Saturday matinees, and especially his determination to meet his Board responsibilities and attend performances despite serious illness. His decades of loving volunteer service to our company set an important example for others and will be fondly recalled by those of us who knew him. We send our deepest sympathies to his wife Francoise, and his family. Louise Humphrey Chairman Emeritus Bruce Crawford Honorary Chairman James W. Kinnear Chairman Paul M. Montrone President
        SULLIVAN-William Mayo. The Board of Trustees of the Bagby Foundation for the Musical Arts notes with profound sorrow the death of our Vice President and Trustee, William Mayo Sullivan. For over 30 years he has been a devoted friend and Board member. His warmth & understanding have been instrumental in our efforts to ease the financial burdens of musical artists in their declining years as well as to help younger musicians launch their careers. His compassion and concern, combined with his gracious good humor, have earned him the friendship of those who have come to know him, and his presence among us will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Francoise and to the members of his family. Rose Bampton Pelletier, Honorary Chairman Jarmila Packard, Chairman F. Malcolm Graff, Jr., President
      