
        COHEN-Rabbi Samuel. Jewish National Fund and its Executive and Administrative Boards are saddened by the untimely passing of a dedicated servant of the Jewish people and Israel. Throughout his career he served several different Jewish organization with commitment and tireless effort, but his greatest passion was reserved for the twenty years (1977 to 1997) that he labored on behalf of Jewish National Fund raising funds to enable Keren Kayemeth Lelsrael to continues its valuable ecological work in Israel. A true humanitarian, he was loved by all who had the good fortune of working along side of him. Sam was also a scholar, a committed Jew, and a devoted husband and father. He'll be sorely missed by the entire Jewish community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Mira, and his children, Baruch, Michoel, and Miriam Silberberg, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ronald J. Lauder, President Russell F. Robinson, Executive Vice President Executive and Administrative Board Jewish National Fund
        COHEN-Samuel. Emunah of America mourns the untimely loss of our dear friend and colleague. Dr. Samuel Cohen will be sadly missed by all those who were privileged to know him. May his wife, Meryl, and the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Sylvia Schonfeld, National President Melanie Oelbaum, Honorary National President Shirley Singer, Executive Vice President Carol Finkel, Executive Director Carol Sufian, Dir of Growth & Developmnt
        COHEN-Samuel I. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague and dear friend who served the Jewish community with distinction for more than four decades, most recently as the Executive Vice President of the JNF. We join the family in mourning his loss and pray that they will be consoled amongst the mourners at Zion and Jerusalem. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        COHEN-Dr. Samuel I. American Zionist Movement mourns the passing of a devoted Zionist communal professional, former Executive Director of the American Zionist Federation and Executive Vice President of Jewish National Fund. Sam was deeply devoted to the Zionist cause and the land of Israel. He will be sorely missed. Our condolences to his Mira and the family. Melvin Salberg, President Karen J. Rubinstein, Exec. Dir.
        COHEN-Samuel I., Dr. Congregation Kneseth Israel, Far Rockaway, NY, mourns with heartfelt sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, and extends condolences to the entire family. Tzvi Flaum, Rabbi Ralph Pelcovitz, Rabbi Emeritus Noah Fleschner, President
      