
        MCCARTHY-Maureen. Age 63, passed away at Memorial Hospital on September 3, 1999, succumbing to metastatic sarcoma cancer. She was born in Richmond, Virginia, to William and Florence Goggin. Resided in Beverly, Mass. graduating from Beverly High School in 1953. Graduate of Leslie College, Cambridge, Mass. in 1957. Taught in Newton, Mass. and Wallenford, Connecticut schools. Married Eugene G. McCarthy in June of 1958. Children, 3 boys, Joseph Gregory, 1959, John Ignatius, 1960 and Paul Eugene, 1963. Accompanied her husband who was Chief Health Advisor for the Alliance for Progress in Paraguay 1961-1964, appointed by President John F. Kennedy. Professionally she was an Innkeeper on the Maine seacoast-Smugglers Cove Motor Inn and the 1820 House Restaurant, Boothbay Harbor, in the late 60's and 70's. She established a nationwide Panel of Board Certified physicians for a national referral program for second opinions in the 70's and 80's. Her eldest son Joseph Gregory succumbed to schizophrenia in 1984 at the age of 25. The focus of her attention was the development of the gift of poetry - easy to read collections - exploring the basic human themes...solitude, love, pain, womanhood, aging and underlying it all, a call to faith. Her two books of poetry ''Catching the Spirit,'' 1994 and ''Prelude to Passion,'' 1999, address the fact that a lot of people are afraid of the intimacy with God. ''They are frightened.'' She felt that she had been given a gift to not only become aware of an intimacy but relish it. As a result of Joseph's death her activities were directed toward assisting the psychotic single homeless through the Franciscan Fathers in New York City, Visiting Professorships in Theology at Boston College, Pontifical Gregorian University and the Pontifical Biblicum University. Her spiritual life was continually nourished by her close association with the Trappist communities of St. Joseph in Spencer, Mass and St. Mary's in Wrentham. Likewise, she benefited from her nomination as a Dame of the Knights of Malta. She is survived by her husband Dr. Eugene G. McCarthy, Clinical Professor of Public Health, New York Weill Cornell Center, New York Presbyterian Hospital, Consultant to a number of Joint Trust Funds, John Ignatius McCarthy of Brunswick, Maine, two grandchildren, AnyaRose and Matthew Joseph, Paul Eugene McCarthy of Martinsberg, West Virginia, a sister, Sheila Goggin of Lowell, Mass. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Thursday September 9th and Friday September 10th from 4-7 P.M. A Mass of Christian Burial will be on Saturday, September 11th at St. Thomas More Church, 65 East 89th Street, at 11:00 A.M.
      