
        CORUZZI-Lucy (nee Sarro). Left this world on 30 September, 1999, in NYC, aged 72. Widow of Hugo Coruzzi. Mother of Laura, Gloria and Celeste Coruzzi. Grandmother of Aidan Coruzzi Daly, Eva Coruzzi Schneider and Giovanna Coruzzi Kupiec. Lucy Coruzzi grew up on East 48 St., where from a young age she worked at her family's newsstand and luncheonette on 2nd Avenue, which was a favorite neighborhood gathering spot. After attending Julia Richmond High School, she had to decline a scholarship to Hunter College because her three brothers Joseph, Armando and (twin) Rudolph were drafted to fight in World War II. After the war, she married Hugo Coruzzi and enjoyed a deeply devoted and loving relationship blessed by the birth of three daughters. After Hugo died suddenly at age 43, Lucy raised her three young daughters alone with the support of the close-knit Sarro family. She went to work at the state rent office where she rose to Chief of Control before retiring. Meanwhile, the values instilled and effort expended in the education of her three daughters resulted in three Ph.D.s, plus a law degree for the eldest. Most recently, the role of grandmother was a new vocation on which Lucy embarked with all her considerable energy. Lucy Coruzzi lived with simplicity, generosity, optimism, and faith. Her greatest pleasure was to sit down for a family meal, and the day her life was complete was the day she first held all her three grandchildren in her lap. She enriched the lives of those around her, regardless of status or station. On 6 October 1995, Lucy hugged the Pope, and each was blessed. Our sense of loss is as great as the loving imprint she left in all of us. Her eight-year old grandson rewrote the morning headlines for September 30, 1999: ''Lucy Dies at 72; Many Sad.'' Wake at Perazzo Funeral Home, 199 Bleecker St., 212-777-7108, Saturday 7-9:30 PM, Sunday 2-5 PM and 7-9:30 PM. Funeral mass Monday, 4 October at Our Lady of Pompeii Church, 25 Carmine St., NYC, 9:30 AM.
      