
        FISCH-Miriam. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a highly respected member of the Jewish community, beloved wife of the late Marcus Fisch and mother of Suzie (and YU Trustee Joseph) Wilf, YU Benefactors, and Erwin (and Lynn) Fisch, YU Guardians. Miriam Fisch was a Holocaust survivor whose courage and determination saved the lives of her husband and children during the liquidation of the Lvov ghetto and Nazi occupation of Poland. She transmitted her zest for life and love of Judaism and Klal Yisroel to her children, grandchildren, and greatgrandchildren, all of whom she nurtured and adored. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        FISCH-Miriam. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Federation of Central New Jersey mourn the passing of Miriam Fisch, beloved wife of the late Marcus Fisch and devoted mother of our dedicated leaders and dear friends, her son Erwin Fisch and daughter Elizabeth (Suzie) Wilf. She was a true Aishet Chayil, Woman of Valor, who overcame extraordinary hardships during the Holocaust and managed to save her family from certain death. Devoted to strengthening the Jewish community both here and in Israel, she was an inspiration to her daughter-in-law, Lynn Fisch and son-in-law Joseph Wilf, our Honorary Chairman. One of her many legacies was to see her grandsons take prominent leadership positions within the Jewish community. Our sympathies go out to them and their families Mark & Rachel Fisch, Steven and Anna Fisch, Zygmunt & Audrey Wilf and Mark & Jane Wilf. May the entire Fisch and Wilf families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Alfred Gelfond, President Elect Joseph Bier, Campaign Chairman Stanley H. Stone, Exec Vice Pres
        FISCH-Miriam. The officers and members of ther American Society for Yad Vashem mourn the passing of Miriam Fisch, a Woman of Valor. As the war against the Jews raged through Europe, Mrs. Fisch exhibited unusual courage, ingenuity and tenacity in order to save her husband and two young children. She will forever stand as an esteemed and revered role model to her beloved children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. We extend our sincere and heartfelt sympathy to the Fisch and Wilf families. Eli Zborowski, Chairman
      