
        MONAHAN-Jeremiah P., Rev. Monsignor. Suddenly on October 25, 1999. Chancellor of the Archdiocese of New York, loving brother of Patricia Paoli and her husband Ralph, Agnes O'Donohue and her husband John, Catherine Lessuk and Andrew Monahan. Dear uncle of Ralph, Brian and Andrew Paoli, Tara Melendez, Doreen Morse, Sean O'Donohue, Andrew Monahan, Geraldine Schuttenberg, Margaret Monahan and Laura Lessuk. Family will receive friends Wednesday, October 27 from 2:00-5:00 and 7:00-9:00 PM at William's Funeral Home, 5628 Broadway at 232 Street, Bronx. On Thursday, October 28, Monsignor will lay in state in The Lady Chapel at Saint Patrick's Cathedral from 2:00-9:00 PM. Mass of Christian burial will be celebrated at Saint Patrick's Cathedral on Friday, October 29th at 10:00 AM. Interment Saint Raymond's Cemetery, Bronx, NY.
        MONAHAN-Jeremiah P., The Reverend Monsignor. The Board of Trustees of Catholic Health Care Network (CHCN) of the Archdiocese of New York expresses their deep sadness at the passing of their fellow trustee. Monsignor Monahan has served loyally and faithfully to the Catholic health care mission in the Archdiocese of New York as a member of the Boards of CHCN, Providence Health Services and Providence Health Services Foundation. In addition to his role as CHCN Trustee, Monsignor Monahan had served as Chancellor of the Archdiocese of New York since October 1, 1997. Prior to being named chancellor, he served as the principal of Cardinal Spellman High School in the Bronx and on the faculty of Cardinal Hayes High School also in the Bronx. He had several parish assignments including the Church of St. Ann, the Church of St. Augustine, the Church of the Holy Cross in Tarrytown and the Church of St. Francis of Rome in the Bronx. In 1990, His Holiness Pope John Paul II bestowed on Father Monahan the dignity of Prelate of Honor to His Holiness. Our prayers are with the family. He was a true friend to Catholic health care in the Archdiocese and he will be sorely missed. Mary Healey-Sedutto, PhD. President and CEO Edwin S. Mruk Chairman
      