
        KAHN-Melvin, M.D. The faculty and staff of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Mount Sinai NYU Health mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague Dr. Melvin Kahn. Dr. Kahn first came to Mount Sinai in 1953 as an intern and went on to advanced training in cardiology and renal disease at Mount Sinai and the National Institutes of Health. Based on his distinguished research contributions, his caring and expert care of his patients, and his devoted and loving service to Mount Sinai, he has served with distinction as Clinical Professor of Medicine since 1984. He was a leader in housestaff recruitment and was a wonderful role model for young physicians. We will greatly miss his warmth, his sense of humor, and his friendship. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Barry S. Coller, M.D. Chairman
        KAHN-Melvin, M.D. The staff of the Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of our friend and colleague Melvin Kahn, M.D., Clinical Professor of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Attending Cardiologist, Mount Sinai Hospital. Dr. Kahn started his long relationship at Mount Sinai as an intern in 1953 and joined the Attending Staff in 1959 and the faculty of the medical school when it was established in 1968. He was trained in basic science and a superb clinician. He provided meticulous and compassionate care to his patients. His warmth, skills and wit were appreciated widely and will be missed deeply. Our profound condolences to his wife, Barbro, his siser Mona, his sons Jonathan and Mark and their wives Kandis and Anna and to his beloved grandson Alexander Joseph.
        KAHN-Melvin, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our long-standing colleague, mentor and friend. Dr Kahn dedicated himself to serving the institution since his internship in Medicine in 1954. He exemplified the clinician-scholar ideal. He will be remembered as one of the best practitioners and teachers, widely admired for his skill, knowledge, and meticulous practice of Medicine and Cardiology. He was a beloved member of our Attending Staff and was revered by his patients, students, and peers. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Stanley Tuhrim, M.D., President Terry Weill, M.D., Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
      