
        LOWMAN-George F. Age 82, on October 2, 1999, of Darien, CT. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Farrell Lines, Incorporated, since 1978, and member of the Board of Directors of the American Steamship Owners Mutual Protection & Indemnity Association, Maritime Association of the Port of New York & New Jersey, and India House, New York. He was a recipient of the United Seamen's Service 1998 Admiral of the Ocean Sea Award, member of the International Maritime Hall of Fame of the Maritime Association of the Port of New York & New Jersey, and recipient in 1999 of that association's first Humanitarian Award. He graduated Harvard in 1938 and received his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1942. He was a former Senior Partner of the Stamford, CT, law firm of Cummings & Lockwood. Among his many professional accomplishments, he was Connecticut State Trial Referee from 1983-1993, past President of the Connecticut Bar Association, former President of India House, Fellow of the American Bar Association, Life Member of the National Defense Transportation Association and Navy League of the U.S., and a former Director of the Darien, CT, Red Cross and Silvermine Guild of Artists. He enlisted in the U.S. Army as a private in 1942 and rose to the rank of Lt. Colonel. He participated in the D-Day Invasion of southern France in 1944 and later served in the U.S. Army Reserve until his retirement in 1970. He is survived by his wife, Mary Farrell Lowman; daughter, Patricia Lowman Dailey; and sons, John Farrell Lowman and Peter Hadden Lowman and 10 grandchildren, all of Darien, Ct., and brother Albert Henry Lowman of New Canaan, Ct. Funeral arrangements are private. A memorial service will be held at 4 PM, on October 6, at the First Congregational Church of Darien, 14 Brookside Road, followed by a reception at the Wee Burn Country Club, 410 Hollow Tree Ridge Road, Darien. Contributions in honor of Mr. Lowman may be sent to the Autism Society of America or the United Seamen's Service.
        LOWMAN-George F. The officers, board and staff of United Seamen's Service mourn the death of Mr. Lowman, a supporter of American ships and seafarers and our 1998 Admiral of the Ocean Sea. He wil be remembered for contributions to Farrell Lines Incorporated and to the U.S. Flag on the world's seas. He will be sorely missed by all who had the pleasure of knowing him. Our condolences to family and friends. Talmage Simpkins, President Roger T. Korner, Exec. Director
      