
        BRANDSTETTER-Robert Daniel, M.D., died at Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester on October 18 after a long illness. He was the beloved husband of Gwyn and cherished son of Christian Brandstetter. He deeply loved his children, William, Daniel, Jennifer, Karen, Elizabeth and Kathleyn. His grandchildren, Ashley and Christian, infused his life with joy. Robert Brandstetter was born in the Bronx on February 27, 1947, the youngest son of Christian and the late Muriel Brandstetter. He graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School and served as a Hospital Corpsman in the United States Navy. Following his honorable discharge, he was a Pulmonary Technician and later Supervisor of the Pulmonary Laboratory at Morrisania Hospital in the Bronx for five years. He received his B.A. degree, Magna Cum Laude, from Herbert H. Lehman College and was awarded his M.D. degree from the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in 1977. Dr. Brandstetter completed his internship and residency at New York HospitalCornell University Medical Center and a clinical and research fellowship in pulmonary medicine at Massachusetts General HospitalHarvard Medical School, where he receive the 1981 Fellowship Teaching Award. Following completion of his training, Dr. Brandstetter joined the staff of the former New Rochelle Hospital Medical Center (now Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester) in 1982 as Acting Chief of Pulmonary Medicine. Throughout his nearly two decades of service to Sound Shore Medical Center, he held increasingly responsible positions, including Chief of Critical Care Medicine, Acting Director of Medicine, Associate Director of Medicine and Director of Medical Education. He was the visionary who forged Sound Shore Medical Center's partnership with the Mercy College Graduate Program in Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine and offered complementary medicine practitioners the opportunity to train in a hospital setting. As coordinator of the Department of Medicine's weekly Grand Rounds lecture series, Dr. Brandstetter brought Nobe Laureates, foreign diplomats and internationally renowned speakers to Sound Shore Medical Center. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, Dr. Brandstetter was Board Certified in Internal Medicine, Critical Care Medicine and Pulmonary Medicine. He received numerous awards for his extraordinary work, including the Dr. William C. Schraft Memorial Teaching Award, the Medical Center's Attending Teaching Award and the Medal For Outstanding Contribution to Science and Letters from Mercy College. He served on the Editorial Boards of Chest, Heart and Lung, the Journal of Intensive Care Medicine, Archives of Internal Medicine, and was the author of two books. He published over 300 papers in medical journals throughout the United States andabroad. In addition to his wife, Gwyn, his father, children and grandchildren, Dr. Brandstetter is survived by his sisters Muriel Del Conte and Beverly Montouri, loving aunts, uncles, cousins, nieces and nephews, the thousands of patients he treated and his extended family at SoundShore Medical Center. He is predeceased by his mother, Murial and older brother, Christy. All of the people who knew and loved him will remember that he embraced life, with zeal and passion; he cherished every moment of life. Visiting hours are from 2-4 PM and 7-9 PM on Wednesday and Thursdayat Lloyd Maxcy Funeral Home, 16 SheaPlace in New Rochelle. The Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Friday at 10:30 AM at St. Gabriel's Church in New Rochelle. A reception to celebrate his life and honor his memory will be held in the Goldstein Auditorium at SoundShore Medical Center immediately following the funeral Mass. In lieu of flowers, friends may donate to the Robert Daniel Brandstetter Memorial Scholarship Fund at Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester.
        BRANDSTETTER - Robert D., M.D. The Sound Shore Medical Center Board of Governors, Administration and the entire Medical Center family deeply mourn, with profound sorrow, the death of Dr. Robert Daniel Brandstetter. A brilliant and compassionate physician, Bob devoted his life to caring for his patients. He respected the sanctity and unique qualities of each individual's life and was absolutely committed to their well being. A gifted teacher, Bob inspired young physicians in training to wholeheartedly embrace the practice of medicine, to excel in both clinical practice and scholarly research, and above all, to revere the ethics and principles of their calling. A talented administrator, Bob directed the Department of Medicine's Residency Training Program and coordinated the weekly Grand Rounds lecture series with a special flair. He invited Nobel Laureates, Russian diplomats, and internationally renowned speakers to share their experiences and expertise with our hospital family and our community. A visionary, Bob championed the development of Sound Shore's unique partnership with the Mercy College Graduate Program in Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine and integrated the practice of Eastern Medicine into a traditional hospital setting. A devoted father, Bob loved his children unconditionally and without reserve. An extraordinary human being, he waged war against his illness, valiantly refusing to surrender to its inexorable toll. He embraced life with zeal and passion and savored every moment that he was alive. He enriched our lives in infinite ways and we are so blessed to have known him. We will truly miss him. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Gwyn, his father, Christian, and his children, William, Daniel, Jennifer, Karen, Elizabeth, and Kathleyn, and to all the other members of his family. John R. Spicer Pres & Chief Exec Officer Clark E. Walter, Chairman Board of Governors Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester
        BRANDSTETTER - Robert D., M.D. The Medical Board of Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester and the 650 members of the Medical Staff deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague and dear friend, Dr. Bob Brandstetter. A specialist in both critical care and pulmonary medicine, Bob was a talented diagnostician, a skilled clinician and a devoted physican who embodied the noblest qualities of our profession. Trained at Harvard and Board Certified in Critical Care, Pulmonary and Internal Medicine, Bob's passion for scholarship and commitment to excellence in both clinical practice and research inspired the hundreds of young physicians he supervised in the Department of Medicine's Residency Program. His courageous battle with cancer offered him a special affinity with critically ill patients and a profound understanding of both their pain and their fear. He cared for patients, conducted rounds and participated in conferences throughout the ten years of his illness. He rarely complained, always smiled, and never lost hope. His enduring legacy includes the thousands of patients whose lives he touched, generations of physicians he trained, and colleagues who benefitted from his knowledge and zeal. We are grateful to have known him and we will greatly miss him. We offer our profound sympathies to his wife, Gwyn, his father, Christian, and his children, William, Daniel, Jennifer, Karen, Elizabeth and Kathleyn. Rest in peace, dear friend. Stephen J. Klass, M.D. President Alvin J. Chisolm, M.D. Vice President Richard Pisano, M.D. Secretary Medical Board Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester
      