
        KEAST-Charles Raymond, 86 years old, son of the late Charles Horace Keast was born in Bisbee, Arizona, on January 22, 1913. As a child, Charles Raymond Keast worked in the copper mines of Selps Dodge before going to San Francisco where he became affiliated with the Works Progress Administration (WPA), and where he was an instructor because of his musical background. In San Francisco he joined the ''Fred Waring Glee Club'' at the San Francisco Aquacade under Robert Shaw's direction. During World War II he worked as a draftsman for Bethlehem Steel. He was a student at the Juilliard School of Music, and also was a pupil of John Charles Thomas, where he performed at the Music Academy of the West. There followed long tours with the ''Shipstead and Johnson Ice Follies'' in the United States. During a break, he auditioned for the ''Song of Norway,'' which was being cast in San Francisco for the New York company. He came to New York with the ''Song of Norway'' cast and was the understudy and the alternate for the role of the poet, Nordrack. It was a major role, and he performed many times in the New York production of the ''Song of Norway.'' After the ''Song of Norway,'' he continued with roles in ''Allegro,'' which was a Rodgers and Hammerstein musical; ''The Music Man,'' and did two seasons with the Arundel Opera of Kennebunkport, Maine. After that he did two seasons as Jane Morgan's leading man at the Kennebunkport Playhouse. During this time he rejoined Robert Shaw and the Professional Choral as a soloist, and toured the entire United States; Europe, Russia and South America. He performed at the Montclair Operetta Company in the ''Song of Norway'' and ''The Merry Widow.'' He also performed at the Paper Mill Playhouse, Millburn, New Jersey. Later he toured for Columbia Concert in the United States & Canada as a member of the Chanticleers, a popular male quartet; followed by a cross-country tour with the rock group, Rick Wakeman; followed by seventeen years with the Norman Luboff Choir as a soloist. Survivors include a sister, Edna Barringer; a niece, Charlene Dandridge; two nephews, Gary and Charles Barringer; a cousin, Helen Gipson of Phoenix, Arizona; and Willis F. Meyers, a longtime companion of fifty-three years. The funeral is private. For information McCorry Brothers Funeral Home, Cliffside Park, New Jersey.
      