
        ARISON-Ted. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of our beloved friend and longtime generous advocate and supporter, Ted Arison. His deep, personal involvement in the advancement of brain research will continue for generations at the Arison Neurobiology Building at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel. His recent gift to the Institute's Jubilee Endowment Drive creates the Arison Laboratory for Human Brain Imaging. Moreover, his grant for science teaching allowed the Weizmann Institute to help thousands of young children develop visual literacy and sharpen their scientific thinking. Ted Arison, who received an Honorary Ph.D. from the Weizmann Institute in 1996, supported a remarkable range of institutions of the arts, education, historical heritage, science and medicine. Through these causes, and especially through his close relationship with the Weizmann Institute, Ted Arison leaves behind a magnificent legacy of caring and contributing enormously to science for humanity. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife, Lin; daughter, Shari; son, Micky; the grandchildren and to the entire family. Robert H. Asher, Chairman American Committee Albert Wilner, M.D., President Martin Kraar, Exec V.P. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Haim Harari, President
        ARISON-Ted. The board, staff, fellows and alumni of the New World Symphony deeply mourn the passing of Ted Arison on October 1, 1999. We grieve his loss as founder, leader, supporter and friend. The New World Symphony and the musical world at large owe an immeasurable debt of gratitude to a man whose vision has helped to ensure the vitality of orchestral life into the 21st century. His timeless legacy will exist not only in the achievements of the New World Symphony but in the lives of its musicians, and the lives they in turn enrich. Mr. Arison's generosity not only enabled the creation of this unique institution, but guaranteed its future as a nexus of musical exploration and innovation. His vision and leadership have set an extraordinary standard for those entrusted with the stewardship of the New World Symphony, and his loss will be profoundly felt. We will always look to his memory as an exemplar of vision, commitment and impassioned advocacy. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire Arison family. New World Symphony
        ARISON-Ted. The American Committee for the Tel Aviv Foundation expresses profound sorrow at the passing of our Founder, original Chairman, leader and most generous donor, Ted Arison. Ted was a giant. Through his example, he brought many other supporters and donors as well. He did more for the Tel Aviv Foundation and the City of Tel Aviv-Jaffa than any other. Our heartfelt condolences go out to his beloved wife, Lin, and his son and American Committee Board Member, Micky Arison and his family, his daughter and generous supporter, Shari Arison Dorsman and her family, his sister Aviva Tamir and his niece, our dear friend Talia Glantz. American Committee for the Tel Aviv Foundation Uzi Zucker, Chairman Ira Riklis, President Shimon Topor, Sec./Treasurer Jeannie Gerzon, Exec. Director Ron Huldai, International Chairman and Mayor of Tel Aviv-Jaffa David Harnik, General Manager, Tel Aviv Foundation
        ARISON-Ted. An unusual man of exceptional warmth, kindness, humanity, and courage-a friend above all-has passed away and we are devastated. His modesty and simplicity were exemplary. His unlimited generosity will continue to enhance lives with sustenance and beauty. Our love to his beloved Lin, Micky and Madeleine, Shari and Mickey, Michael and the grandchildren. All Birnbachs, Hafts and Uzi Zucker
      