
        BETCHER-Albert, M.D. On October 15, 1999 at age 88. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Diane Dodge, Peter and William Betcher. Devoted grandfather of Karen Trister, Allison Dodge, Benjamin Betcher and Shannon Dodge. Dear brother of Ronnie Griff. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Sunday 11:30AM. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Alzeimer's Association, 360 Lexington Ave, New York, NY 10017.
        BETCHER-Albert, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases are saddened by the passing of our distinguished colleague, Dr. Albert Betcher. Dr. Betcher joined HJD in 1946, serving as Director of Anesthesiology from 1947 to 1976, and returned to HJD in 1981 as Associate Director of Professional and Academic Affairs. Dr. Betcher was a committed friend and loyal benefactor of our institution. He leaves a grieving hospital community and a profound void at HJD. We mourn his passing as we celebrate his exemplary life. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Gertrude and to their entire family. William A. Perlmuth Chairman of the Board John N. Kastanis, FACHE President and Chief Executive Officer Victor H. Frankel, M.D. President Emeritus Joseph D. Zuckerman, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief
        BETCHER-Albert M. The members of the Department of Anesthesiology of the Hospital for Joint Diseases mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, mentor and friend. Albert M. Betcher touched the lives of all of us at the hospital. He was a pioneer in the field of anesthesiology. Dr. Betcher achieved national recognition in anesthesiology. He was president of the American Society of Anesthesiologists, president of the American Board of Anesthesiology, received the Distinguished Service Award of the American Society of Anesthesiologists, and was president of the New York State Society of Anesthesiologists. He was also a member of the Academy of Anesthesiology from which he received a Citation of Merit. Ralph L. Bernstein, M.D. Chairman, Department of Anesthesiology Andrew D. Rosenberg, M.D. Vice-Chairman, Department of Anesthesiology
      