
        DAVIS-Martin S. The President, the Board of Trustees and the entire Montefiore community deeply mourn the untimely death of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Martin S. Davis. A devoted member of the Montefiore Board of Trustees and its Executive Committee since 1991, Martin Davis was actively engaged in the leadership of the medical center throughout his tenure and fully committed to improving the health of the boro of the Bronx, which was his boyhood home. A man of vision and compassion, with a singular devotion to causes that truly matter, Martin Davis melded extraordinary skills in business with philanthropy to enrich the lives of countless individuals. His vision and his unyielding devotion to imrpoving childrens' health care helped to inspire The Children's Hospital at Montefiore, and he served as co-chair of its Steering Committee. His leadership of that initiative and his magnificent generosity will leave an enduring legacy to children and their families for generations to come. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his beloved wife, Luella, and his son Philip. He will be missed by all whose lives he touched. Spencer Foreman, MD, President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center Irwin Redlener, MD, Pres The Children's Hospital at Montefiore
        DAVIS-Martin S. It is with profound sorrow that we note the untimely passing of Martin Davis, who died suddenly following a heart attack in New York City last evening. He is mourned and survived by his beloved wife, Luella Davis, son Philip Davis, brother-inlaw Robert Dryden and niece Emma Dryden as well as by countless friends and associates. He was a giant among business leaders, serving as chairman and chief executive officer of Gulf + Western Industries and its successor company, Paramount Communications, from 1983 until its merger into Viacom, Inc. in 1994. During his tenure, he lead one of corporate history's most sweeping and successful restructurings of the Gulf + Western conglomerate into a focused and financially strong entertainment publishing powerhouse. More recently, Mr. Davis was a managing partner of Wellspring Capital Management LLC, a private equity firm he helped form in 1995. Despite his considerable corporate duties, he had for many years devoted time, energy, and funds to a broad range of civic and charitable activities. Since 1972, he had been a leader in the fight against multiple sclerosis and served the MS Society on both the local and national levels. He also was vice chairman of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation and a member of the Board of Trustees of Carnegie Hall. Mr. Davis also served on the Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center, where he helped spearhead the building of a new Children's Hospital at that facility. Funeral services will be private. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in his memory to Montefiore Medical Center Children's Hospital, 111 E. 210 Street, Bronx, N.Y. 10467; the New York City Chapter of the MS Society, 30 W. 26th Street, 9th Floor, New York, N.Y. 10010; the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, P.O. Box 316, Charlottesville, Va. 22902 or Carnegie Hall, 881 7th Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10019.
        DAVIS-Martin S. It is with profound sorrrow that the Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of the New York City Chapter ofthe National Multiple Sclerosis Society mourn the passing of our extraordinary chairman & friend, Martin S. Davis. He led the fight against MS locally and nationally for more than 27 years with unparalleled continuity and dedication. His personal commitment to excellence, his exceptional persistence, and fierce determination to eradicate this cruel disease were an inspiration to everyone involved in the fight against MS and to all those he pursuaded to enlist in our work. He personally raised more money to advance MS research and to provide services and assistance to those affected by the disease than any other individual in the organization's history. His was a profoundly personal form of leadership that is rarely experienced and never replaced. We extend heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Luella, and his son Philip. Board of Trustees New York City Chapter National Multiple Sclerosis Society
        DAVIS-Martin S. The Board of Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Martin S. Davis. Marty was a member of the original Steering Committee to restore Carnegie Hall, and member of its Board of Trustees since 1985. His patriotism inspired a generous commitment to this great American landmark, which in turn nurtured a heartfelt appreciation of classical music. His sudden and untimely death is met with profound sadness, and we extend our sympathies to his wife Luella. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weill, Chairman Franz Xaver Ohnesorg, Executive and Artistic Director
        DAVIS-Martin. The Board and staff of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society express deep sorrow on the passing of Martin Davis, a longtime member of the National Board of Directors. Funeral arrangements have not yet been arranged. Richard D. Slifka, Chairman of the Board Mike Dugan, General, USAF (Ret.), President & CEO
        DAVIS-Martin S. You are now on the Board of Angels. We'll miss you. Love, Karyn and Chuck Lewis
      