
        BURG-Rabbi Josef. We extend sincerest condolences to Rivka Burg and her children Avraham and Ada on the loss of her beloved husband and their father. Throughout his life, Rabbi Burg personified the highest values of chesed and service to Klal Yisrael. His friendship and efforts on behalf of the spiritual and healthcare needs of the people of Jerusalem will always be appreciated and remembered. His legacy of kindness continues in the capable hands of his children. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Comm. for Shaare Zedek Med. Center Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, President
        BURG-Dr. Yosef. The Officers and Members of The American and International Societies for Yad Vashem mourn the passing of a great statesman and humanitarian who served his country, Israel, and all of mankind with distinction. In his role as Chairman of The International Council of Yad Vashem, Dr. Burg was an eloquent spokesman for the cause of remembrance. His voice of moderation and gentle manner endeared him to all those whose lives he touched. We express our heartfelt condolences to his family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Eli Zborowski, Chairman
        BURG-Yosef. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, deeply mourns the passing of a great Zionist. A Rabbi and government leader, he was a respected advocate of co-existence between secular and religious Jews. Our sympathy to his wife, daughter and son Avraham Burg, Speaker of the Knesset and former Chair of the Jewish Agency for Israel and the World Zionist Organization. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Bonnie Lipton, President Dr. Laura S. Schor, Exec. Director
        BURG-Joseph. Dr. The Religious Zionist movement mourns the passing of its foremost leader a longtime President of the world movement. Pioneer in the creation of Israel; was a member of government heading many ministries. We are grateful for his impact on his frequent appearances in our U.S. events. Our condolences to his wife, Rivka and his children Abraham and Ada. Rabbi Simchah Krauss, President Matthew Mayless, First Vice-President Israel Friedman, Executive Vice-President
      