
        FREID-Marvin G., Doctor. Of Putnam Valley, New York, and formerly of Eastchester, New York. Survived by wife Eunice Humphrey. Father of Maxine and Dick Haigh, Marvin Jr. and Lee Freid. Grandfather of Jennifer and Carl Luposello, Richard Jr. and Debbie Haigh, Brian Kelly Freid & Donna Freid. Great grandfather of Mickey, Nicholas, Willie & Olivia Luposello. Dr. Freid was the son of Dr. Max B. Freid and Bertha Cowen. He had two brothers, the late Charles and Dr. Julian. He was delivered at home in the Bronx by his father on January 1, 1910. He attended Washington Square College, NYU College of Dentistry, graduating in 1932 with a DDS. At that time he was appointed as Mount Sinai's first dental intern. he graduated Mount Sinai 1933 and was appointed to the attending staff. Dr. Freid met his wife in the Spring of 1933 and they were married June 5, 1937. He started private practice in 1933 which was interrupted for service in the U.S. army during World War II. He was in the Third General Hospital Corps and served overseas with the Mount Sinai Division. He was commissioned as a First Lieutenant and then Captain in 1942. He set up hospitals in various fields of action and was promoted to Major in December 1945. He resumed his private practice in 1945 at 119 West 57 Street, New York City, retiring January 1, 1984 and stayed on the hospital staff as attending dentist and as an Associate Clinical Professor Emeritus at Mt Sinai Medical School. In 1982, he was given an award for a half century of dedicated service to Mount Sinai and the community. In 1992, he received a similar award for 60 years of service. He was awarded a citation from the Town of Putnam Valley for appreciaton for community service and volunteerism. In 1993, Putnam Valley Library gave him the Virginia Connelly Award for outstanding service. His hobbies were sailing, swimming on Lake Oscawana, bridge, New York Yankees & New York Giants. Services were private, a memorial to be announced. Contributions would be appreciate to the following: Memorial gifts in Dr. Freid's name may be made to Putnam Valley Ambulance Corps, Oscawana Lake Road, Putnam Valley, New York 10579; Hillsboro Rescue Squad, 620 amwell Road, Nishanic, New Jersey 08853; and the ALS Society. He will be remembered for his generosity, concern, kindness, compassion, always thinking of others, a mentor to many, loyal and always humble.
        FREID-Marvin, G. DDS. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health note with profound sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague Marvin G. Freid, DDS, Associate Professor Emeritus in the Department of Dentistry, who was associated with Mount Sinai for nearly seven decades. After receiving his degree from New York University School of Dentistry, Dr. Freid became the first dental intern at The Mount Sinai Hospital in 1932 then served on the Attending Staff for more than 60 years, and was appointed to the faculty of the School of Medicine upon its establishment in 1968. He will be remembered fondly for his clinical and teaching skills, for his devotion to patients and students, and for his personal warmth. He will be sorely missed. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife, Eunice, daughter, Maxine Haigh, son, Marvin, Jr., to his grandchildren, great grandchildren and to the entire family. Helene L. Kaplan, Chair, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chair, Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine John W. Rowe, M.D., President Mount Sinai NYU Health Barry R. Freedman, President The Mount Sinai Hospital
        FREID-Marvin G., DDS. The Department of Dentistry of the Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the loss of a dear friend and illustrious colleague with the passing of Marvin G. Freid. In 1932, he won the appointment as the first dental intern of the new Department and the following year, joined the attending staff. He helped train many generations of outstanding interns and residents who followed in his footsteps. During W.W. II, he served honorably with Mount Sinai's Third General Hospital Unit for three years. At his retirement in 1995 he had achieved the rank of Associate Clinical Professor in the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Attending Dentist for the Hospital. He was a skillful and compassionate clinician, a great teacher and role model and will be sorely missed by his friends, patients, students and colleagues. Jack Klatell, DDS Daniel Buchbinder, DMD, MD
        FREID-Marvin, D.D.S. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. A member of the attending staff as a general practitioner for over sixty years. Dr. Freid was a highly respected physician, teacher and mentor. Not only did he serve the hospital with loyalty, but also his country. During W.W II, Dr. Freid participated in the French, Italian and African campaigns as a member of Mount Sinai's Third General Hospital Unit. He provided superb care to his patients, wise counsel to his students and colleagues and was an inspiration to all who knew him. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, M.D., Treasurer
        FREID-Marvin G., Doctor. Dear friend and mentor, a very special person to so many people. Always in our hearts. Dr. Gale Wernick, Charles and Henry Theofan
        FREID-Marvin G., Doctor. Beloved and cherished friend, mentor, humanitarian, forever with us. Joan, Morty and Scott Wernick
      