
        GAFFIGAN-Michael A., 63, of Dune Acres, IN., former President of Mercantile National Bank of Indiana, died on Friday at Saint Margaret Mercy Hospital in Hammond. He continued to be active in many community organizations up until his death. All of his life he was an eloquent and passionate champion of community service. Saint Margaret Mercy Healthcare Centers recently honored Mr. Gaffigan for his outstanding support of the Healing Ministry of the Sisters of St. Francis. Mr. Gaffigan gave of his time and resources to support organizations including Hospice of the Calumet Area, Northwest Indiana Forum as well as Purdue University Calumet Chancellors Advisory Council. As past Chairman of all of these organizations, his commitment was evident in the progress made in their respective missions. In addition, in 1989 he received the Shamrock Award from the Friendly Sons of Erin for his commitment to family and faith. Mr. Gaffigan's professional career began in 1957 at Chase Manhattan Bank where he rose to Assistant Treasurer. He returned to the Midwest in 1965 to assume a position with Central National Bank of Chicago (now La Salle National Bank) and was eventually promoted to Executive Vice President. In 1976 he was appointed President and then Chief Executive Officer of Mercantile National Bank of Indiana. Under his management, Mercantile always earned more than 1% on assets and was subsequently honored by Money Magazine as one of the 100 safest banks in the United States (one of only two Indiana banks so honored). As a banker, Mr. Gaffigan was a master at balancing criticism and encouragement. ''Mike was always fair in the way he treated us and I think that is what made him the respected President he was. He really did care about the employees as much as he did the bank's clients,'' said Jeanne Cleaveringa, a former Mercantile employee. Mr. Gaffigan was born in Springfield, Illinois and matriculated at Georgetown University earning a Bachelor of Arts in Economics. He earned his Masters of Business Administration from New York University. His wife Marcia preceded Michael Gaffigan in death in 1990. He is survived by his loving wife Kathleen (Nau), his six children, three step children and six grandchildren. Mr. Gaffigan has three brothers that also survive; Jacques (Mary Ann), Joseph (Joan), and Terrence. His children are: Catherine Kulkin (Marc) of Oakland, CA; Pamela, Chicago, IL; Michael II (Laura), Miami, FL; Mitchell (Christine), Chesterton, IN; Joseph (Jane), Chicago, IL; and James, New York, New York. His stepchildren are Gary Eldridge (Lisa), San Diego, CA; Katy Eldridge, Chicago, IL; Brian Eldridge, Chicago, Illinois. His grandchildren are Ashley Gaffigan, Mitchell Gaffigan, Morgan Kulkin, Connor Gaffigan, Zachary Kulkin and Kevin Gaffigan. Visitation on Tuesday, November 16 will be from 3-8 PM at White-Love Funeral Home in Chesterton, IN. The funeral mass will be at St. Anne of the Dunes in Beverly Shores, IN at 11:00 AM, Wednesday, November 17, 1999. Donations in lieu of flowers can be made to Hospice of the Calumet Area in Munster, IN.
      