
        WEINSTEIN-Doris (nee Edelman). Loving wife and best friend of Ira J. for 47 years. Mother of Peter & Andrea, Robert and Mary. Grandmother of Brianna, Brooke, and Alexandria. Sister of Gerald, & Maxine Edelman, Janet Edelman, Shirley and George Weinstein. Good friend of Emma Lee. Loved by many nieces and nephews. She was a master teacher of science, the consummate dealer in antique jewelry and a compassionate philanthropist. Her loss will be felt by many. Let us celebrate her life and remember her always. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Temple Beth El or North Shore Child and Family Guidance Assn. Services Wednesday 11 A.M. at Temple Beth El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck.
        WEINSTEIN-Doris. The Board of Trustees, Medical Board and Administration of Beth Israel Medical Center join with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Doris Weinstein, beloved wife of Ira J. Weinstein, president of the Schnurmacher Foundation. The Schnurmacher Foundation has made generous donations to support the nursing home now bearing the Schnurmacher name and the hospital's research efforts in the areas of cardiology and AIDS. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mr. Ira Weinstein and the entire Weinstein family on their loss. Morton P. Hyman Chairman of the Boards of Trustees, Continuum Health Partners, Inc. and Beth Israel Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO, Beth Israel Henry S. Singman, M.D. President, Medical Board Steven Horowitz, M.D. Chairman, Division of Cardiology, Beth Israel Stanley Yancovitz, M.D. Director, Clinical AIDS Activities
        WEINSTEIN-Doris, Mrs. The Board of Trustees of the Optometric Center of New York and the faculty and students of the SUNY College of Optometry mourn the passing of our good friend and patron. As a member of the Board of the Schnurmacher Foundations, Doris Weinstein was cognizant of the need to help worthy and deserving students in the profession of optometry. Her generosity, understanding and support over the years have enabled many persons of talent and ability to attend professional school. Her spirit of commitment was magnificent. As a personal friend, she was a noble and brave woman who was a major support to her devoted husband, Ira, and an inspiration to her children and the other members of the family. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Ira and to the family and friends of this wonderful woman whom we shall miss. Kimberly Eierman, President Board of Trustees Optometric Center of New York Dr. Alden N. Haffner, President State University of New York College of Optometry
        WEINSTEIN-Doris. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Doris Weinstein, cherished friend of the Jewish community. As a trustee of the Charles & Mildred Schnurmacher Foundation and the Adolph & Ruth Schnurmacher Foundation, she was dedicated to alleviating human suffering through the Schnurmacher Foundation's extraordinary contributions to our beneficiary health and human-service agencies. We extend our sincerest condolences to her beloved husband, Ira; her son, Peter and his wife, Andrea; her son Robert, and his wife, Mary; & her 3 grandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        WEINSTEIN-Doris. The officers, board members and staff of Schnurmacher join in extending our deepest sympathy to Ira Weinstein upon the loss of his beloved wife Doris. To the entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Edwin H. Stern, III Chairman of the Board Schnurmacher Michael R. Potack Chairman of the Board Beth Abraham Health Services Henriette M. Kole President Beth Abraham Health Services
        WEINSTEIN-Doris. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Doris Weinstein. We will miss her concern, warmth and generosity. We extend our deepest condolences to her beloved husband, Ira, sons, Peter and Robert, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Mark Biderman, President
        WEINSTEIN-Doris. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Doris Weinstein. We will miss her wise counsel, sharp wit and great style. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Ira and her sons, Peter and Robert and their families. Fred, Janet, Carolyn, Amanda and Jonathan
      