
        POMERANTZ-Gerta. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Gerta Pomerantz, a Chai Founder and wife of our cherished friend and benefactor, the late Fred P. Pomerantz, a founding member of Boys Town's Board of Directors. Fred was a pioneering leader in his service to Israel and the Jewish People. His commitment to the welfare of his fellow man motivated many others to follow his example. Inspired by his father's magnanimous philanthropy and desire to assist disadvantaged Israeli youth, his son, John J., established the Fred P. Pomerantz Center for Technological Education at Boys Town, which enabled the school to emerge as a premier institution for high-tech education in Israel. The individual and collective achievements of Boys Town students will endure as a living and lasting tribute to the memory of Fred and Gerta Pomerantz. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Executive Vice President
        POMERANTZ-Gerta. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of our distinguished honorary Overseer and Benefactor, John J. Pomerantz. Longtime friends of the College, the Pomerantz family has steadfastly sought to improve the human condition through support of cancer research and other programs at our institution. To Mr. Pomerantz, his wife, Laura, and the entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        POMERANTZ-Gerta. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Gerta Pomerantz, a dear friend who was deeply committed to the Jewish community. The beloved matriarch of a prominent family of philanthropic leaders, she embraced the concerns of her late husband, Fred, who was one of the distinguished founders of United Jewish Appeal, a predecessor to UJA-Federation. Her son, John, is perpetuating his family's legacy as an exceptional philanthropist whose leadership has contributed enormously to the success of our Apparel Division. We extend our sincerest condolences to John, and his wife, Laura; to Mrs. Pomerantz's daughter, Leslie Fay; her eight grandchildren; and her six great-grandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Acting Exec VP
        POMERANTZ-Gerta. The Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries of the Fashion Institute of Technology mourns the passing of Gerta Pomerantz, beloved mother of John J. Pomerantz, our esteemed Chairman of the Board. Dr. Joyce F. Brown, CEO Stephen C. Elkin, President Bernard Olsoff, Vice Chair Arthur E. Reiner, Vice Chair David Chu, Vice President Josie Natori, Vice President Philip Silber, Secretary Peter Scotese, Treasurer Bruce Roberts, Chairman, Nominating Committee
        POMERANTZ-Gerta. The Board and Staff of Carnegie Hall extend deepest sympathies to Trustee Laura Pomerantz, her dear husband John, and their entire family on the passing of their beloved Gerta Pomerantz. May beautiful music evoke fond memories and a measure of solace in this time of loss. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weill, Chairman Franz Xaver Ohnesorg, Executive and Artistic Director
        POMERANTZ-Gerta. The employees of Leslie Fay Marketing, Inc. express their heartfelt sympathy to Mr. and Mrs. John Pomerantz and their family on the loss of John's beloved mother, Gerta Pomerantz.
        POMERANTZ - Gerta. Deepest sympathy to John and Laura Pomerantz and family. Caralyn and Bob Salem
      