
        MALINO-John. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of one of our most loyal supporters. John was a Director of the Foundation for many years, constant in his dedication of our goals and beliefs. He will be deeply missed by all of us. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Phyllis, children and grandchildren. Our throughts and prayers are with you during this very difficult time. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        MALINO-John. Of Woodmere, Long Island, New York. The principals and employees of GVA Williams are deeply and sincerely saddened by the early passing of our longtime friend, John Malino. We offer our condolences to his family and to his business associates, and hold his memory with us always. John's intellect, honor and personal warmth will never be forgotten.
        MALINO-John. The officers and employees of Grubb & Ellis New York, Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and a respected professional in our industry. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to his wife and family.
        MALINO-John G. My friend, my counselor. Always bringing understanding, friend to my family, we are pained by your passing. Our hearts go out to Phyllis, your daughters and grandsons. You will be greatly missed. Sidney & Cheryl Gilbert
        MALINO-John. You have been a truly caring and generous friend. You have taught me what it means to give of yourself as you were always giving. My sympathy goes out to Phyllis, your beautiful daughters and grandsons. I will never forget you. Audrey Novoa
        MALINO-John. An honorable professional and a loyal and good friend for 30 years. He will be missed by many, including me. Wishing his family comfort during this difficult period. Edward S. Gordon
        MALINO-John G. An honorable professional, and a loyal and good friend for 30 years. He will be missed by many, including me. Wishing his family comfort during this difficult period. Edward S. Gordon
        MALINO-John. In loving memory of a dear friend who will remain forever in our hearts. We extend our deepest sympathy to Phyllis and the children. James B. Emden and Family
        MALINO-John G. We were deeply saddened to learn of the passing of a very special person. He will be missed and long remembered by all who knew him. Rickey and Terry Rackow
        MALINO-John. You were a very special and giving friend. Our family will miss you very much. Edith Sanford Franklin and Renee Zuckerbrot
        MALINO-John. A longtime friend who will be truly missed. Our condolences to Phyllis and the entire family. Margie and Bob Emden
      