
        KIP-Barbara Alice Boyle. died on Friday, November 19, 1999 at her home in Millwood, New York from cancer of the lung. She was born in New York City on February 25, 1927, a daughter of the late William P. and Jane Boyle. She was a lifelong resident of Briarcliff Manor, Ossining and Millwood, N.Y. area. Barbara graduated from the Briarcliff Manor High School. She attended the College of Wooster in Wooster, Ohio and graduated from George Washington University in Washington, D.C., in 1949. In 1950 she married Ruloff F. Kip, Jr. of Montclair, N.J., at All Saints Church in Briarcliff Manor. During her life, Barbara was active in many ways as a volunteer. She was, for forty years, a Red Cross Grey Lady at the Veterans Hospital in Montrose, N.Y., and she was a volunteer ombudsman for the Long Term Care Office of the State of New York. She was also a volunteer driver for many years of the American Cancer Society. She was active in local programs at her parish, Saint Pauls on-theHill Episcopal Church in Ossining, N.Y. and she served on numerous committees and commissions of the Episcopal Diocese of New York. She was a 50-year member of the Patrons of Husbandry (also known as the Grange). She is survived by her husband, Ruloff F. Kip Jr; a son, Phelps C. Kip Jr., and his wife, Krista; a son, Nicholas H. Kip and his wife Lucinda; three daughters, Carlotta B. Kip, Stephanie J. Kip and Katrinka T. Kip; two grandchildren, Alexander and Elizabeth Kip, born of Nicholas and Lucinda Kip; two brothers, William P. Boyle, Jr. and Barrie Boyle; and a niece Tracy Wilkes, her husband Paul Wilkes and several other nieces and nephews. She was predeceased by her sister, Virginia Boyle Wisser, and she is expected to be survived by the yet unborn daughter, Hanna Kip, of Phelps and Krista Kip. Services further will be at St. Paul's on-the-Hill Episcopal Church, at 40 Ganung Drive, Ossining, New York, 10562, at 11 AM on December 4, 1999. In lieu of flowers, the family would appreciate donations in her memory either to The Bosler Humane Society (a home for abandoned animals), P.O. Box 12, Baldwinville, Mass., 01436, or to Phelps Hospice Phelps Memorial Hospital Center, 701 N. Broadway, Sleepy Hollow, N.Y., 10592-1096.
      