
        MARYLES-Avi. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved husband of Daisy and brother of our dear friend Matthew J. Maryles, member of the Board of Directors of Yeshiva College. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Maryles family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        MARYLES-Avi. On November 3, 1999. Beloved husband of Daisy. Dear father of Miriam. Cherished brother of Matthew, Jesse, Norman and Josh. Doting uncle and great uncle. Friend of many. Will be especially missed by children of all ages for whom he provided a regular taste of sweetness.
        MARYLES-Avi. Be'er Hagolah Institutes express their deep sorrow on the passing of Avi Maryles, beloved brother of our distinguished Board member, Matthew J. Maryles. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Marc Ratzersdorfer, President Morton Berger, Board Chairman Pearl Kaufman, Director
        MARYLES-Avi. The Trustees, Officers and Staff of the Caroline and Joseph S. Gruss Life Monument Funds mourn the passing of Avi Maryles, brother of our devoted board member Matthew Maryles. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Martin D. Gruss, Chairman Jack Nash, Vice Chairman Jason G. Cury, President
        MARYLES-Avi. Gesher mourns the passing of the beloved brother of our esteemed Honorary President, Matthew J. Maryles. May the the entire bereaved family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Daniel Tropper, Founder Philip Schatten, Chairman Hillel Wiener, Exec VP
        MARYLES-Avi. Young Israel of Flatbush mourns the passing of its esteemed member, Avi Maryles. He is survived by his wife, Daisy, daughter, Miriam, and brothers Matthew, Jesse, Norman and Josh Mark Goldstein, Pres.
        MARYLES-Avrum. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Avrum Maryles, a cherished friend who was devoted to Jewish causes. He shared the concerns of his beloved brother, Matthew, a prominent leader admired for his extraordinary dedication to our community. Matthew is a distinguished member of our Board of Directors and past treasurer of UJA-Federation. We extend our sincerest condolences to Matthew, and his wife, Gladys; to Avrum's wife, Daisy; his daughter, Miriam; and his three brothers, Jesse, Norman, and Joshua. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Acting Exec VP
      