
        NICHOLAS-Peter, M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and distinguished colleague, Peter Nicholas, M.D., Associate Dean for Graduate Medical Education and Associate Professor in the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine, who was associated with Mount Sinai for more than three decades. After receiving his medical degree from Yale University, Dr. Nicholas joined Mount Sinai as an intern in 1968 and subsequently held numerous positions at The Mount Sinai Hospital, Elmhurst Hospital Center, and Mount Sinai School of Medicine, including fifteen years as Associate Dean for Students, Clinical Years. A respected authoritiy on infectious diseases, Dr. Nicholas published extensively and played a pivotal role in Mount Sinai's AIDS Clinical Trials Group and in research on tuberculosis. Greatly admired as both teacher and clinician for his exceptional dedication to students and patients, he will be remembered most fondly, and he will be sorely missed. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife Joan, to his sons Peter and Matthew, and to the entire family. Helene L. Kaplan, Chair, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chair, Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine John W. Rowe, M.D., President Mount Sinai NYU Health Barry R. Freedman, President The Mount Sinai Hospital Joel J. Bauer, M.D., President Medical Board
        NICHOLAS-Peter, Dr. The faculty & staff of the Division of Infectious Diseases & the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Mount Sinai NYU Health mourn the loss of our beloved colleague, Dr. Peter Nicholas. A graduate of Yale University School of Medicine, Dr. Nicholas trained in internal medicine and infectious diseases at Mount Sinai. For more than 25 years as a faculty member of Mount Sinai and attending physician at Elmhurst Hospital Center, Dr. Nicholas touched the lives of hundreds of physicians-in-training as Associate Dean of Graduate Medical Education, Director of the medical student clerkships and the Infectious Diseases Fellowship, and enthusiastic medical school lecturer. His commitment to excellence in clinical care was reflected in his role as Chairman of the Infection Control Committee, a program he started at Elmhurst Hospital Center in 1975. Dr. Nicholas will be remembered as a superb, dedicated physician and educator, a tireless patient advocate and warm friend to all of his colleagues. His compassion, kindness, honesty, and integrity were truly inspirational. We extend our condolences to his wife, Joan, and his entire family. Mary Klotman, MD Chief, Division of Infectious Diseases Barry S. Coller, MD Chairman
        NICHOLAS-Peter, M.D. The Medical Board of Elmhurst Hospital Center, the hospital's medical staff, and the Mount Sinai School of Medicine Affiliation, mourn the untimely loss of our beloved friend, respected colleague and long time associate Peter Nicholas, M.D., Associate Professor of Medicine at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and Chief of Infectious Diseases at Elmhurst Hospital Center. As a highly qualified academician, clinician and researcher, Dr. Nicholas earned the love, respect and admiration of all of us who for the past twenty-five years had the privilege of his intellect, professional counsel, and personal friendship. As a dedicated teacher, he made significant contributions to the education of residents in all of our training programs and to the many medical students that had the fortune of having him as their mentor and guide. With deep sorrow, we share in the grief that is felt by his wife, Joan, and his two sons, Peter and Matthew. To them we extend our heartfelt condolences. The Medical Board, Elmhurst Hospital Center The Mount Sinai School of Medicine Affiliation Jasmin Moshirpur, M.D. Associate Dean/Medical Director
        NICHOLAS-Peter, M.D., 57. The members of the Department of Medicine at Elmhurst Hospital Center express profound sorrow on the passing of Dr. Peter Nicholas, our long time Chief of Infectious Diseases, Director of Infection Control and Associate Professor of Medicine at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Dr. Nicholas was also Associate Dean for the Graduate Medical Education at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Peter was an inspiration to all of us as a role model of a compassionate and dedicated clinician and mentor to countless medical students and housestaff of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine for the past twenty-five years. He was also a role model to all of us as a devoted husband to his wife, Joan, and father to his two sons, Peter and Matthew. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife and children. We will always miss his humor, friendship and professionalism. Frank A. Ross, M.D. Director of Medicine Elmhurst Hospital Center
        NICHOLAS-Peter, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. A member of the Mount Sinai family since 1968, Dr. Nicholas was admired and respected by his colleagues for his accomplishments as a clinician, his insights as a researcher, and his skills as an administrator. A devoted teacher and supportive mentor, Peter represented the best tradition of the Medical Center, exemplified by his dedication to teaching and commitment to clinical excellence. A thoughful, empathetic physician his wisdom, judgement, and generous spirit were an inspiration to all who knew him. But, above all, he earned a special affection by his profound humanity, generosity, warm smile and gentle humor. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, M.D., Treasurer
        NICHOLAS-Peter, M.D. Those of us in the Office of Graduate Medical Education of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine deeply mourn the loss of our colleague and friend, Dr. Peter Nicholas, Associate Dean for Graduate Medical Education. Peter's indomitable spirit and commitment to teaching house staff and students were only matched by his commitment to public health and the care of his patients. He is irreplaceable. We offer our deepest sympathy to his wife, Joan, and his sons, Peter and Matthew. Barry Stimmel, M.D., Dean For Graduate Medical Education Kevin Troy, M.D., Associate Dean For Graduate Medical Education
      