
        GALLIGAN-Thomas Clavin, Sr. Age 91. Former Associate General Counsel of Colgate Palmolive. Died on November 24, 1999 at Blount Memorial Hospital, Maryville, TN. Orphaned at 9, Galligan moved to Montclair, NJ at 13 and graduated from Montclair H.S. in 1925. With the assistance of his Aunt Sara Clavin, he put himself through Rutgers University from which he received his B.A. in 1929 and then Cornell Law School from which he received his LL.B. in 1932. The next year he joined the Law Department of Colgate Palmolive where he worked for the next 52 years, the longest service any lawyer has ever provided to Colgate. Specializing in labor and employment law and advertising law he was devoted to following both the letter and spirit of the law. He was a member of the bar in both New York and New Jersey. Galligan was a loyal alumnus of both Rutgers and Cornell. He was the author of the Class Notes of the class of 1929 in the Rutgers Alumni Magazine for many years and wrote a biography of the class for its 50th reunion in 1979. Galligan regularly assisted both schools in their fund raising efforts. He endowed the Sara Clavin Scholarship at Rutgers and the Galligan Faculty Development Fund at Seattle University School of Law. He lived in Montclair from 1921 to 1998 where he moved to Louisiana and then Tennessee in order to be closer to his family. In Montclair, he attended Immaculate Conception Church and was a member of the Knights of Columbus. He was preceded in death by his wife Elizabeth, his brother Raymond Galligan and his sister Sara Galligan, all formerly of Montclair. He is survived by his son Thomas C. Galligan, Jr., Dean and Professor of Law at the University of Tennessee College of Law; his daughter-in-law Susan Galligan and his grandchildren Patrick 14, Sarah 12, Aisling 10 and Jennifer 7 of Knoxville, TN. The body was cremated and a memorial service will be conducted on December 11th at 9:30 AM at Immaculate Conception Church in Montclair, New Jersey. For more information call Smith Mortuary, Maryville, TN, (865-983-1000).
      