
        KRISER-Anne N. On November 14, 1999. Beloved wife of Sidney. Devoted mother of Judy Feldstein. Dear mother-in-law of Richard Feldstein. Cherished grandmother of Elizabeth and Christopher Rile and Julie and Mark Kessler. Adoring great-grandmother of Jessica and Lily. She will be deeply missed. Memorial service Tuesday, November 16, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-NY Chapter, 381 Park Ave South, NYC.
        KRISER-Anne. The Board of Trustees, Medical Board and Administration of Beth Israel Medical Center join with the leadership of its parent company Continuum Health Partners Inc, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Anne Kriser, beloved wife of Sidney Kriser and esteemed sister-in-law of the late David B. Kriser. The Kriser fmaily has for many years supported the medical center with extraordinary generosity. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mr. Sidney Kriser and the entire Kriser family on their loss. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman of the Boards of Trustees Continuum Health Partners, Inc. and Beth Israel Robert G. Newman, M.D. CEO, Continuum Health Partners Inc Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO, Beth Israel Henry S. SIngman, M.D. President, Medical Staff Robert L. Salant, M.D. President, Doctors' Alumni Association
        KRISER-Anne. The physicians and staff at the David B. Kriser Lung Cancer Center at Beth Israel Medical Center express deep sorrow at the passing of Anne Kriser, wife of Sidney Kriser and sister-inlaw of the late David B. Kriser, a devoted Beth Israel trustee and benefactor. She will be greatly missed by all whose lives were touched by her compassion, generosity and concern. To her husband, Sidney, her daughter Judy, and to all who loved her, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Steven Keller, M.D. Director, David B. Kriser Lung Cancer Center Ronald Blum, M.D. Director, Cancer Center Marilyn Halper Executive Director, Cancer Center
        KRISER-Anne. The New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation mourns the death of Anne Kriser, beloved wife of Sidney Kriser and loving mother of our esteemed Board Member, Judy Feldstein and her husband, Richard. Mrs. Kriser has been a longtime, generous supporter of the Foundation and will always be remembered by her generosity, loving heart, and most of all, her indomitable courage. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, her loving children, cherished grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. James M. Lurie, President New York Chapter
        KRISER-Anne. The Juvenile Diabetes Foundation mourns the passing of Anne Kriser, a committed and pioneering supporter of the Foundation. She will be remembered for her great generosity and her dedication to JDF's mission. At this sad time, we extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Sidney, and to the members of her family. The Board, volunteers and staff Juvenile Diabetes Foundation Int'l
        KRISER-Anne. The Anti-Demfamation League mourns the passing of our dear friend Anne Kriser, beloved wife of Sidney. Together, Anne and Sidney were longtime generous supporters of ADL. We extend our deepest condolences to Sidney, their daughter Judy and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
      