
        DENSEN-Paul M. The Lautenberg Research Center of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Paul M. Densen, Chairman of the Lautenberg Research Center Endowment Committee. Paul was the pioneering and outstanding leader on a daily basis for over 20 years in his service to the Lautenberg Center. His service to the Jewish people and to all of humanity had no peer. His commitment to ''Tikun Olam,'' repairing the world, and to the welfare of his fellow human beings motivated many others to follow his example, and his contributions to the eradication of cancer and other immunological diseases will be noted for generations to come. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Sarah Jane; his sons, Mark and Robert, and his entire family. The Lautenberg Research Center U.S. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg Founding Patron Dr. David Weiss Founding Chairman, Jerusalem Dr. Eitan Yefenof Chairman, Jerusalem Eleanore Popeck-Rigolosi Co-Chair, Executive Committee Milton Spielman Co-Chair, Executive Committee Paul Einhorn, Chairman Research Associates Society Carmi Schwartz Executive Vice Chairman
        DENSEN-Paul M. American Friends of The Hebrew University deeply mourns the passing of Paul M. Densen, AFHU Vice President and Member of the Board of Directors and Associate Governor of the Board of Governors of The Hebrew University. He was a dedicated leader and generous supporter of the Lautenberg Center for General and Tumor Immunology at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. As a long time supporter of AFHU, he and his wife Sarah Jane established the Paul and Sarah Jane Densen Scholarship and Max and Bertha Densen Fellowship. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Sarah Jane, sons Mark and Robert and the entire family. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President Alex Grass, Chairman of the Board of Governors American Friends of The Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President Fred S. Lafer, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
      