
        CHATFIELD TAYLOR-Marochka age 93 died of a stroke following a fall, in Mystic, CT, November 2, 1999, at Pendleton Rehabilitation Center. She was born in St. Petersburg, Russia July 24, 1906. Her father was the well-known Russian artist, Boris Anisfeld, who designed sets and costumes for the Russian theater and opera before the 1917 Russia revolution and later for the Metropolitan Opera in New York. Ms. Chatfield-Taylor emigrated to the United States with her father and mother at the height of the Russian revolution. She arrived in New York in 1918, when her father's paintings, transported from Russia, were exhibited in a major show at the Brooklyn Museum. Later, her father was employed by the Metropolitan Opera Company from 1918-1927. She was educated at the Ethical Culture Society School in Manhattan. The family moved to Chicago in 1929, where her father became professor of advanced painting at the Chicago Art Institute. While attending the Art Institute as a student, Ms. Anisfeld produced exhibitions of her own work of drawings and paintings. She also created murals for cafes and bars in Chicago and designed high-fashion clothing. In 1936, she married journalist Otis Chatfield-Taylor, from a prominent Chicago family. The ceremony was conducted in her father's art studio in Chicago. They lived in Croton-on-Hudson, New York. Mr. Chatfield-Taylor owned and edited the local newspaper. Following his death in 1948, Ms. Chatfield-Taylor moved to Manhattan and created a company called Maggie Taylor gowns, which produced her own original clothing designs. In 1954, Ms. Chatfield-Taylor moved to Washington, D.C., where she worked for many years as a real estate agent and antique dealer. In 1970 she moved to Stonington, CT. Following her father's death in 1973, she devoted her energies to promoting her father's reputation in the world of Russian and American art. She is survived by one son, Charles Chatfield-Taylor of San Francisco, CA and Stonington, CT and by two granddaughters, Jessica Chatfield-Taylor of San Francisco, and Mercedes Flett of Lotus, CA. No memorial service is planned. Donations in memory of Marochka Chatfield-Taylor may be made to The Art Institute of Chicago, 111 South Michigan Ave, Chicago, IL 60603-6110.
      