
        KAUFMAN-Rita. The Kaufman, Lindenbaum, Newman, and Hurwich families mourn the passing of Rita Kaufman. Loving wife of the late Benjamin Kaufman. Cherished mother of the late Judith (and Baruch Hurwich), Gerald (and Carol Kaufman), Belda (and Marcel Lindenbaum) and Carol (and Melvin Newman). Beloved Nana to seventeen grandchildren, twenty five great-grandchildren and hundreds who were lucky enough to know her. Nana was the matriarch of a close and loving family. Larger than life, she made a lasting impression on everyone she met. She embodied the Jewish values of love of family, hospitality toward guests, learning and charity, and she passed these values on to her children and grandchildren. She is also survived by sister & brothers Hilda Riback, Harry Skydell, Adrian Skydell, Irving Skydell and Anita Chanowitz. She cared for us all, we will miss her. Funeral services will be held on Tuesday, November 30 at 12:15 P.M. at Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, 125 E. 85 Street, NY, NY.
        KAUFMAN-Rita. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of the widow of one of the University's earliest founders and patrons, who herself continued to make major gifts to the University, including the Moot Faculty Court in the Emanuel Rackman Law Center and was profoundly committed to the University's ideals and goals, Rita Kaufman. Her passing is an irreparable loss, not only to her loved ones but to all who knew her. We extend to the family our sincerest condolences and wish to express our gratitude to them for following their parents' example. Indeed, one daughter, Belda was the President of our American Friends for more than a decade and she and her husband Marcel Lindenbaum have supported some of our important programs and projects. Another daughter, Carol and her husband Melvin Newman, who served as a member of our board, are Presidential Founders of the University. Her son Gerald has been supportive of our cause in Chicago. Mrs. Kaufman reaped a harvest of Nachas from all of her loved ones for several generations and they have become a source of pride for the Jewish people everywhere. May her soul be wrapped with the immortals. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor, Bar-Ilan University Melvin Stein, President, American Friends Charles Dimston, Chairman, American Board of Trustees Gen. (Ret) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President
        KAUFMAN-Rita. The Board of Jofa mourns the passing of Rita Kaufman, beloved mother of our two Vice Presidents, Belda Lindenbaum and Carol Newman, and of Gerald Kaufman and the late Judy Hurwich. Mrs. Kaufman took deep pride in her Judaism and in four generations of her extraordinary family. She was a woman filled with a zest for life, passion for justice, and a generous heart. She managed to combine seriousness of purpose with a love of beauty and of laughter and she always spoke the truth. Rita Kaufman communcated her strong values and personality traits to her children and our organization has been the beneficiary of her great legacy through the leadership and personalities of her remarkable daughters. Our thoughts are with you, Belda and Marcel, Carol and Mel, and all the family. Jewish Orthodox Feminist Alliance Board of Directors Blu Greenberg, President
        KAUFMAN-Rita. Drisha Institute for Jewish Education mourns the passing of Rita Kaufman, mother of our founding President Carol Kaufman Newman and our current President Belda Kaufman Lindenbaum and matriarch of the Newman, Lindenbaum, Hurwich and Kaufman families. Mrs. Kaufman's vibrant dedication to Torah, Israel and the Jewish people lives on in her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren and in their work on behalf of the Jewish community. May her memory be a blessing. Rabbi David S. Silber, Founder and Dean Nina Bruder, Executive Director
        KAUFMAN-Rita. The Aleph Society extends its heartfelt sympathy to our dear friends Belda Lindenbaum and Carol Newman upon the passing of their mother. Her legacy is reflected in her children and grandchildren, in their achievements and good deeds. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz Jack Nash, Chairman Ludwig Bravmann, President
        KAUFMAN-Rita. Lincoln Square Synagogue mourns the passing of Rita Kaufman, beloved mother of our devoted member and benefactor, Belda Lindenbaum, and beloved mother-in-law of our dedicated Trustee, Marcel Lindenbaum. The matriarch of the family has passed from our midst. Adam Mintz, Rabbi Shlomo Riskin, Founding Rabbi Ken Cappell, President
        KAUFMAN-Rita. Gesher records with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of our dear friend Belda Lindenbaum. May the the entire bereaved family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Daniel Tropper, Founder Philip Schatten, Chairman Hillel Wiener, Exec VP
        KAUFMAN-Rita. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of its longtime members, A. Harry Skydell and Irving Skydell. May her entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood
      