
        MARTIN-Richard. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art are profoundly saddened by the untimely loss of the curator of our Costume Institute, Richard Martin. In his six immensely productive and influential years at the Museum, Richard brought an extraordinary intelligence, an unfailing eye, and a mesmerizing style to The Costume Institute, emerging not only as the most acclaimed curator in his field, but deservedly as one of the nation's leading spokesmen on all aspects of the history of fashion. At the Met, he challenged all of us to broaden our concept of costume, and it is no small tribute to his vision and zeal that both professionals and the public responded so enthusiastically to his exhibition program. His bravery and commitment will not soon be forgotten. We will miss him greatly. Philippe de Montebello, Director
        MARTIN-Richard. The trustees, administration, faculty, staff, and students of the Fashion Institute of Technology note with sorrow the death of Richard Martin, a valued member of the FIT community from 1973-93. Professor of Art History and head of the Shirley Goodman Resource Center, he expanded FIT's costume collections into a world-class resource. The provocative, witty exhibitions he mounted won international acclaim, established his reputation as a leading interpreter of fashion, and brought the FIT museum wide renown. We will always remember his brilliant, unique vision, and utter devotion to his work. He will be missed by colleagues and friends.
        MARTIN-Richard. The Board of Directors and Staff of the College Art Association mourn the passing of our cherished friend and dedicated board member, Richard Martin. His 35 year commitment to the organization's mission culminated in his election as Vice President for external affairs this year. He will be greatly missed. In lieu of flowers, his partner suggests donations to College Art Association's Fellowship Program. We offer our deepest condolences are sent to his partner and family. John R. Clarke, President Susan Ball, Exec. Dir.
        MARTIN-Richard. A memorial service for Richard Martin will be held at The Metropolitan Museum of Art at a date to be determined after the New Year. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to the College Art Association's Professional Development Fellowship Program, Attention: Katie Hollander, 275 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001.
      