
        NICHOLAS-Peter, Dr. The faculty & staff of the Division of Infectious Diseases & the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Mount Sinai NYU Health mourn the loss of our beloved colleague, Dr. Peter Nicholas. A graduate of Yale University School of Medicine, Dr. Nicholas trained in internal medicine and infectious diseases at Mount Sinai. For more than 25 years as a faculty member of Mount Sinai and attending physician at Elmhurst Hospital Center, Dr. Nicholas touched the lives of hundreds of physicians-in-training as Associate Dean of Graduate Medical Education, Director of the medical student clerkships and the Infectious Diseases Fellowship, and enthusiastic medical school lecturer. His commitment to excellence in clinical care was reflected in his role as Chairman of the Infection Control Committee, a program he started at Elmhurst Hospital Center in 1975. Dr. Nicholas will be remembered as a superb, dedicated physician and educator, a tireless patient advocate and warm friend to all of his colleagues. His compassion, kindness, honesty, and integrity were truly inspirational. We extend our condolences to his wife, Joan, and his entire family. Mary Klotman, MD Chief, Division of Infectious Diseases Barry S. Coller, MD Chairman
        NICHOLAS-Peter, M.D., 57. The members of the Department of Medicine at Elmhurst Hospital Center express profound sorrow on the passing of Dr. Peter Nicholas, our long time Chief of Infectious Diseases, Director of Infection Control and Associate Professor of Medicine at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Dr. Nicholas was also Associate Dean for the Graduate Medical Education at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Peter was an inspiration to all of us as a role model of a compassionate and dedicated clinician and mentor to countless medical students and housestaff of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine for the past twenty-five years. He was also a role model to all of us as a devoted husband to his wife, Joan, and father to his two sons, Peter and Matthew. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife and children. We will always miss his humor, friendship and professionalism. Frank A. Ross, M.D. Director of Medicine Elmhurst Hospital Center
      