
        SCHNITZER-Jeshaia., Rabbi, of Montclair, on Thursday, November 11, 1999. Distinguished leader of the Jewish community for over half a century. Beloved husband of the late Hilde Maier Schnitzer. Cherished father of Rabbi Jonathan A. and Beverly Schnitzer of Rockville, Maryland, and Lisa J. and Rabbi Richard Plavin of Manchester, Connecticut. Adored ''Opa'' of Aviva (Plavin) and Cory Lebson, Ariel and Ilana Plavin, Shira and David Schnitzer. Dear brother of Charles Schnitzer, Rose Harad, Claire Fleisher and Selma Winson. Funeral services conducted at noon on Friday, November 12, 1999, at Congregation Shomrei Emunah, 67 Park Street, Montclair, New Jersey. Interment at Menorah Cemetery, Delawanna, New Jersey.
        SCHNITZER-Rabbi Jeshaia. The leaders and staff of the Rabbi Isaac N. Trainin Bikur Cholim Coordinating Council of Greater New York and the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Rabbi Jeshaia Schnitzer, a founder and former vice president of the council. Rabbi Schnitzer's strong leadership and his compassion for the ill, frail and elderly will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to the members of his family. Seymour Kramer, Chairman, Rabbi Isaac N. Trainin Bikur Cholim Coordinating Council Rabbi Alan Lavin, President, Rabbi Isaac N. Trainin Bikur Cholim Coordinating Council Joseph S. Kaplan, President, JBFCS Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Exec VP, JBFCS
        SCHNITZER-Jeshaia, Rabbi. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1944, he served as a US Army chaplain and in several congregations before assuming the pulpit of Congregation Shomrei Emunah in Montclair, NJ, in 1951, where he served until his retirement in 1979, when he became rabbi emeritus. For the past 20 years, he provided invaluable wisdom to rabbis as chair of the RA Rabbinic Care Line. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his children, Lisa Plavin (Rabbi Richard), our colleague Rabbi Jonathan, his grandchildren, his brothers and sisters, and to all who were touched through his rabbinate. Rabbi Seymour L. Essrog, Pres. Rabbi Joel H. Meyers, Exec. VP The Rabbinical Assembly
        SCHNITZER-Jeshaia. Congregation Shomrei Emunah, Montclair, New Jersey mourns the loss of its Rabbi Emeritus. He served the congregation with great distinction and devotion. ''A generous spirit, a humble soul, a modest demeanor.'' Such is the legacy he leaves to his many families. May his memory be a blessing. Shirley R. Grill, President Michael A. Monson, Rabbi
      