
        GALLAGHER - Grace. The Trustees, physicians and staff of the hospitals of Mount Sinai NYU Health note with profound sadness the passing of Grace Gallagher, beloved wife of our esteemed colleage, Jack Gallagher, Chief Executive Officer of North ShoreLong Island Jewish Health System, our strategic partner in advancing the quality of healthcare services. We extend our deepest sympathy to him, to their children and to the entire family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman John W. Rowe, MD, President and Chief Executive Officer Barry R. Freedman, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Theresa A. Bischoff, Executive Vice President
        GALLAGHER-Grace. The entire Franklin Hospital Medical Center Family mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Grace Gallagher, beloved wife of North ShoreLong Island Jewish Health System Chief Executive Officer John S. T. Gallagher. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family and loved ones. Justice Howard E. Levitt, Chairman Edward S. Orzac, M.D., Medical Director William Kowalewski President Franklin Hospital Medical Center
        GALLAGHER-Grace S. Noted with sorrow and respect is the passing of a gallant woman, the wife of North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System CEO, John S. T. Gallagher. Her courage and determination throughout a long illness serve as an inspiration in the presence of adversity. I send my deepest personal condolences to my friend and colleague, Jack Gallagher, and my sincere sympathy to his entire family. Lawrence Scherr, M.D., MACP Chairman, Department of Medicine, North Shore University Hospital
        GALLAGHER-Grace S. It is with a deep sense of sadness that we express our condolences to the family of Grace S. Gallagher, devoted wife, loving mother, dear friend. We extend our deepest sympathies and our support to her husband, John S.T. Gallagher, Chief Executive Officer. North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System. Saul B. Katz, Chairman Board of Trustees North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        GALLAGHER-Grace S. The physicians and administration staff of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourn the death of Grace S. Gallagher, beloved wife of our Chief Executive Officer, John S.T. Gallagher. Our deepest sympathies go out to the entire Gallagher family. David R. Dantzker, MD President Michael J. Dowling Executive V.P. and C.O.O. North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        GALLAGHER-Grace E. Of Setauket, NY on November 23, 1999. Beloved wife of John. Devoted mother of John, Grace, Robert, Louise, Thomas and Paul. Also survived by nine grandchildren. Funeral Mass St. James RC Church, Setauket, 9:30AM Friday. For information the Branch Funeral Home, Inc., Smithtown. Funeral Services are private. In lieu of flowers donations would be appreciated to North Shore L.I.J. Foundation, 125 Community Drive, Great Neck, New York 11021.
        GALLAGHER-Grace S. The Auxiliary of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset extends its deepest sympathy to the Gallagher family on the loss of their beloved wife and mother. She was truly a brave and valiant woman. Her memory will serve as an inspiration to all. Andrea Weiss, President Auxiliary North Shore University Hospital/Manhasset
      