
        SMITH-Lloyd Hilton. A resident of Southampton, NY, and Palm Beach, FL, died Wednesday October 27, 1999, in Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Smith often quoted the Mark Twain exclamation, ''If I cannot smoke cigars in Heaven, then I won't go,'' was 94. Born in Pittsburgh, PA, the deceased was a member of The Yale Class of 1929 where he was Editor of The Daily News. Following graduation he pursued a career in finance in New York City, and was a founder of Argus Research Corporation and Laird Inc. During World War II, he served in the U.S. Navy, achieving the rank of Lt. Commander, and seeing action in the Pacific, on the legendary aircraft carriers, The Hornet and The Wasp. Following the war, Mr. Smith was active as an independent oil and gas producer and was Chairman of Paraffine Oil Company in Houston, TX. He served on numerous corporate boards, including Curtis-Wright Corporation, Information Storage Systems, and Falcon-Seaboard Inc. He was also a Director of The Michael DeBakey Medical Foundation, and The Museum of Fine Arts in Houston. The deceased was well known as a staunch supporter of The Republican Party. He was a Founding Director of The National Review Magazine, and along with Paul Nitze, The Committee On The Present Danger. He was also a major benefactor of The American Spectator Magazine and The Heritage Foundation. Mr. Smith had been a Member of The National Golf Links of America, The Brook, The Southampton Club, The Meadow Club, and The Racquet and Tennis Club in New York, and The Everglades and The Bath and Tennis Clubs in Palm Beach. Mr. Smith was predeceased by his wife, Elizabeth Keith Wiess, and his sister, Elizabeth Smith Hamilton. He is survived by four daughters, Camilla Clay Smith, Sandra Isabel Lloyd, and husband Douglass Smith, Sharon Keller, and husband David, and Sydney MacPherson, and husband Barry, grandchildren, Robert Livingston Gerry IV, Lloyd Harriman Gerry, Christopher Schaefer Keller, Michael Roland Keller, Elizabeth Cairns MacPherson, Ian Barry MacPherson, Megan Keith MacPherson, and great grand daughter Katherine Lloyd Keller. Funeral services were held Friday October 29, 1999, at 3 P.M. at The Episcopal Church of Bethesda By The Sea, in Palm Beach. Interment was on Monday November 1, 1999, at The Southampton Cemetery. The family has requested memorial contributions be made to the donors' favorite charities.L
      