
        HAMMERMAN-Bernard. On November 19, 1999. Born July 15, 1923. Devoted son of the late Louis and Rose Hammerman. Loving husband of Joan. Father of Darcy (Allen), Brett (Diana) and Robert (Wendy). Adoring grandfather of Harley, Jeremy, Sloane and Maris. Precious brother of Ben (Lorelei), Goldie (Norman), David (Sarah) and the late Hyman (Florence). Caring uncle to his nephews and nieces and their children. Bernie was a purple heart veteran of World War II. At the end of 1945, with his brothers, he started the family business which proudly continues. With the passage of years, Bernie forms a multitude of friendships with reciprocal loyalties. He was generous of spirit and substance. He lived his life by the Golden Rule, with great pride in his heritage. He was respected and loved by all of his friends, employees and family. We are all truly bereaved and pray that we may find solace in his blessed memory. Services, Sunday, November 21, 12:45 PM, Riverside Chapel, 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. The Hammerman Family
        HAMMERMAN - Bernard. We mourn the loss of Bernie Hammerman, whose courage and valor was an inspiration to us all. He was a beloved family man and our true friend. He brought a lot of warmth, wit and intelligence to all who knew him. A most avid reader, possessed with a discerning eye, he was a veritable gem. We extend heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Joan and his adoring children and grandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusulem. Sam and Roni Jacobson
        HAMMERMAN-Bernard. It is with great sorrow that we acknowledge the passing of our Uncle Bernie. Our deepest sympathies to his wife Joanie and his children Darcy and Allen, Brett and Dana, Robert and Wendy, as well as to his siblings Ben, Goldie and Dave. Larry and Judy Weiss Hillel and Caren Hammerman Richard and Debbie Born
        HAMMERMAN-Bernard. Beloved father of our dear son-in-law Brett. Our heartfelt condolences go out to his wife Joan, children Darcy, Allen, Brett, Dana, Robert and Wendy, and his cherished grandchildren. He will be deeply missed. Vicki and Dick Freedman
        HAMMERMAN-Bernard. Bernie dear, you fought valiantly. We love you and shall miss you always. Muriel and Fred
      