
        MALINO-John. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Loving father of Joanne and Paul, Debbie and Rob, Linda & Dana. Adored grandpa of Jason and Andy. Dear son-in-law of Helen and Sydney Alter. Services Tuesday 11:30 A.M., from Temple Israel of Lawrence, 140 Central Avenue, Lawrence, New York.
        MALINO-John. The employees of Loews Corporation note with great sadness the untimely passing of our treasured friend and colleague, John Malino, who served the Company for thirty-five years. As Vice President of Real Estate of Loews Corporation, John was widely regarded by his peers as a consummate professional. His knowledge of the real estate industry, combined with his energy and enthusiasm, lead him to become one of the most respected and highly regarded executives in New York real estate. At Loews, John oversaw all real estate activities of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. He also contributed significantly, both professionally and personally, to a number of charities, including the Children's Museum of Manhattan, the Center for Arts Education, Community Access, the Princess Grace Foundation, and the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee. John leaves many colleagues at Loews and our subsidiary companies who will greatly miss his warmth, his vitality, and his friendship. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to his wife, Phyllis, and to his children and grandchildren. The people of Loews Corporation
        MALINO-John G. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow at the untimely passing of an industry legend, John Malino. John left an indelible mark upon our industry and as such, he will be remembered forever. Our hearts ache for his family. May his memory be a blessing. The Principals of Newmark & Co. Real Estate, Inc. William G. Cohen, Ronald E. Goldberger Barry M. Gosin Aaron Gural Jeffrey Gural James D. Kuhn Arthur H. Lerner Marlene Post Arthur Rosenbloom
        MALINO-John. The Officers, Directors and Administration of the Hebrew Academy of Long Beach note with profound sorrow the untimely passing of Mr. John Malino A''H, beloved husband and father, esteemed community leader and a good friend. He will be sorely missed. May the Almighty console the bereaved family with the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Yisroel Kaminetsky, Menahel, HALB Yeshiva High School for Boys Hillel Davis and Stuart Samuels Presidium Rabbi Zvi Friedman Executive Director Richard Hagler, Executive Administrator
        MALINO-John. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague. For more than a score of years our lives have been enriched by our dear friend's kindness, integrity and steadfastness. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Phyllis and John's family. Marshall Rose, Alan Grossman, Edgar Lampert, Adam Flatto, Robin Rasamny
        MALINO-John. We mourn the loss of our dear friend John and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Phyllis, and children Joanne and Paul, Linda and Tom, Debbie and Rob, and Dana. He will be missed by all whom he graced with his love and friendship. Judy and Howard Shatz
        MALINO-John. The members and Board of Directors of B'nai B'rith Real Estate wish to express their sympathy for the family and friends of John Malino. As a director and former president of our organization, John's insight and dedication was a blessing to us all. We will miss him dearly and remember him fondly.
        MALINO-John. We will forever miss John and the special friendship we shared. He was a man of extraordinary talent and charm who enriched those lives he touched. We extend our love and heartfelt condolences to Phyllis and the entire family. Marjorie and Alan
        MALINO-John. Our friend was a man to be loved and admired. There was never anything too much or too difficult for John. He treated everyone equally with decency and caring. Our hearts are broken. We shall never forget him. Charles and Andrew Borrok
        MALINO-John G. Beloved and respected member and former Chairman for 1973 of YM/WREA. Our mentor and friend will be sorely missed, not only by our members but the entire industry. 1999 Board of Governors YM/WREA
        MALINO-John. You have been a truly caring and generous friend. You have taught me what it means to give of yourself as you were always giving. My sympathy goes out to Phyllis, your beautiful daughters and grandsons. I will never forget you. Love, Audrey
        MALINO-John. Temple Israel Lawrence, New York mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends deepest sympathy to the bereaved family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi Alan J. Hartstein, President
        MALINO-John G. An honorable professional, and a loyal and good friend for 30 years. He will be missed by many, including me. Wishing his family comfort during this difficult period. Edward S. Gordon
        MALINO-John. An honorable professional and a loyal and good friend for 30 years. He will be missed by many, including me. Wishing his family comfort during this difficult period. Edward S. Gordon
        MALINO-John G. We, at Cushman and Wakefield, are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend, John Malino. He was truly a respected professional in our industry and will be missed.
        MALINO-John G. We were deeply saddened to learn of the passing of a very special person. He will be missed and long remembered by all who knew him. Rickey and Terry Rackow
        MALINO-John G. You were a great friend. We will all miss you very much. Arthur Nelkin
      