
        YAGODA-Grace. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a cherished member of its extended family and aishes chayil of our esteemed Board Member and member of the Executive Committee, David Yagoda. A partner with her beloved husband in life, business and philanthropy, Grace demonstrated her concern and compassion for underprivileged Israeli youth by becoming a Chai Founder at the school. Even in the face of adversity, Grace exuded charm and courage, bolstered by her deep faith. May her memory be a source of blessing for her family and k'lal Yisroel. Hamakom y'nachem eschem b'soch sh'ar aveilei Tzion v'Yerushalayim. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Exec. V.P.
        YAGODA-Grace. On December 23, 1999. Beloved wife of David Yagoda. Mother of Barbara Yagoda, Janet Newcorn, and mother-in-law of Warren Newcorn. Grandmother of Lauren Newcorn, and sister of Norman Udell. Service on Friday, 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        YAGODA-Grace. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a highly respected and beloved member of the Jewish community who was a YU Benefactor with her husband, David Yagoda, YU trustee and honorary board chairman of our Stern College for Women. Mr. and Mrs. Yagoda made a leadership gift toward the renovation and expansion of SCW's Hedi Steinberg Library and established a scholarship fund in their name at our undergraduate schools. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, David; children, Barbara Yagoda and Janet (and Warren) Newcorn; brother, Norman (and Dorothy) Udell; granddaughter, Lauren; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        YAGODA-Grace. Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of the wife of our former president, David Yagoda. We admired their courage during this last difficult battle, and extend our heartfelt sympathies to the entire bereaved family. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus Howard Wolf, President
        YAGODA-Grace. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun,its Sisterhood and Couples Club mourn the passing of the beloved mother of their devoted member Janet Newcorn and extend heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Fred Distenfeld President
        YAGODA-Grace. It is with profound sorrow that we extend our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to David, Barbara and Janet on the passing of their beloved wife and mother. Newmark has lost a member of its family. Our hearts ache for you. May you all be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. The entire Newmark organization
        YAGODA-Grace. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved wife of its dedicated Chairman of the Board, Mr. David Yogoda, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Dr. William Schwartz, President
        YAGODA-Grace. Sisterhood Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our dedicated Board Member, a brave, courageous woman. Heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband David and devoted family. Beverly Greenberg, President Polly Etkind Hochberg, Chairman
        YAGODA-Grace. Buchbinder & Warren Organization extends deepest sympathy to David Yagoda, Barbara Yagoda, Janet, Warren & Lauren Newcorn and all other family members. Grace shall remain in our hearts forever. Norman Buchbinder & Eugene Warren and Staff
        YAGODA-Grace. The gift of life, however dear. Must somehow pass away. Yet love and memories remain. Eternal gifts that stay. Grace will be deeply missed by Lori, Susan, Mae and Norman Buchbinder. The Entire Buchbinder Family
        YAGODA-Grace. After a long and courageous battle. The partners and staff of Goldberg Weprin and Ustin LLP extend our heartfelt sympathy to our dear friend David, daughters Barbara and Janet, and the entire Yagoda family.
      