
        SAFRA-Edmond J. Kronish Lieb Weiner & Hellman LLP mourns the tragic and untimely death of our dear friend and client Edmond J. Safra. For thirty years we had the honor and privilege of serving him, his family, Republic National Bank of New York and its affiliates. An extraordinarily brilliant and successful person in world commerce, we came to know him as a gentleman and a righteous and upright person. We extend our heartfelt condolences and affection to his wife, Lily; her children and grandchildren, whom he embraced as his own; his brothers, Joseph and Moise; his sisters, Arlette, Gaby and Huguette; and his nephews and nieces. We also extend a personal condolence to each and every member of the Republic family here and around the world whose lives he touched and who we know will miss him dearly.
        SAFRA-Edmond J. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Sephardic Community Center of Brooklyn deeply mourn the tragic loss of Edmond Safra, a longtime friend, founder and builder of the Center. Generous, distinguished and a man of vision, he exemplified the best of Sephardic charitable tradition. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Lily and her children, Adriana and Eduardo; his brothers, Moise and Joseph; his sisters, Arlette, Gaby and Huguette, and the entire Safra family. May his memory live on through the many who were touched by him. Joseph Jerome, President Morris Bailey, President Emeritus Martin Maskowitz, Exec. Director
        SAFRA-Edmond J. B'nai Yishak Congregation is shocked and greatly saddened by the tragic death of our dear friend and benefactor. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Lily, and to the entire Safra family. Harry Catton, President Sam Catton, Founder Sonny Gindi, Founder Al Gindi, Founder Joseph Harari, Founder Billy Mizrahi, Founder Rabbi Harold Sutton
        SAFRA-Edmond J. We are shocked and mourn the death of a very dear friend to whom our publication organization owes its very existence. He was truly ''the Rothschild'' of the 20th Century. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Lily, and to the entire Safra family. Sephardic Heritage Foundation Inc. Sam Catton, President Rabbi Shimon Alouf, Chief Editor David A. Tawil, Trustee
        SAFRA-Edmond. The Board of Directors, officers and staff of Israel Discount Bank of New York were deeply saddened to learn of the tragic death of our esteemed banking colleague, Edmond Safra. We send our sincere condolences to his wife Lily and his family. Arie Mientkavich, Chairman of the Board Arie Sheer, President and CEO, Israel Discount Bank of New York
        SAFRA-Edmond J. The Directors of the Parkinson's Disease Foundation mourn, in shock and sadness, the tragic loss of a great man and a generous friend to Parkinson's research. We wish every comfort to his wife, Lily, and to their family. Lewis P. Rowland, M.D., President Stanley Fahn, M.D., Scientific Director
        SAFRA-Edmond. SERIS Foundation mourns the tragic death of Edmond Safra. May his family and all those touched by his benevolence be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jersusalem. Erika Klapper, President Raphael M. Klapper, M.D., Executive Director
        SAFRA-Edmond. My deepest sympathy to Lily Safra and the rest of the family. He was a wonderful man and a great benefactor. He will be missed. Sadly, Page Morton Black, Chairman Parkinson's Disease Foundation
      