
        FLORENCE-Lee. On December 21, 1999 at age 91. Adored husband of Estelle. Loving father of the late Michael. Most beloved grandfather of David, Diana and Scott. Cherished brother-in-law of Miriam. Dear uncle of Jonathan and Esther, Mattye and Robert, Elaine, Phyllis and Harold, and all their children and grandchildren who were so precious to him. Services today, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Contributions in his memory may be made to: Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Hospital, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021.
        FLORENCE-Lee. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Estelle and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President
        FLORENCE-Lee. Beloved husband of Estelle and great-uncle. A mentor for our family and many friends. His legacy will live on in the strangers who benefited from his volunteer work. His warmth and charity will never be forgotten by all the hearts he touched. Jayne and Larry Lein, Fran and Mark Gurland
        FLORENCE-Lee. We all lost a great man and great friend. He was devoted to his wife, to his family, to his friends. Friends from high and low places. Lee was a mentch, generous to a fault and equal to any task. May he rest in peace knowing that all who knew him will never forget him. Dr. Ben and Hilda Gissen
        FLORENCE-Lee. Like a father, Uncle Lee was always there for us with counsel and love. A man with a gift of gab second to none, his stories will never be forgotten. He gave of himself unstintingly to family, friends and all who needed help. We will try to carry on his standard of doing for others. Messeloff and Gandel Families
        FLORENCE-Lee. It has been said before, but I will say it again. Though you have been an angel to countless people, but Jonathan's, Mattye's and my name have always headed that list. Our endless thanks and love will continue to go with you forever. Love, Miriam
        FLORENCE-Lee. The Peeler family extends our deepest sympathy to Estelle, Diana, Miriam and all other family members and friends of Lee Florence whose life was lived so well that he shall remain in our hearts forever. Carol, Don, Sage, Mark, and Scott
        FLORENCE-Lee. With deep sadness, we mourn the passing of our dear uncle, a loving person whose sage advice inspired many to greater achievement. Phyllis, Harold and Elaine
      