
        COHEN-Albert B. Died December 24th, 1999, at age 76. Beloved husband of Bernice. Devoted father of Jeffrey and Shelley, Steven and Laura, Marla and Jim, and Robert. Proud grandfather of Rachel, Jordana, Brad, Jennifer, Emily, Daniel, Joseph, Anna and Michael. Board Member of North Shore University Hospital and The Jewish Theological Seminary. Dedicated philantropist, risk arbitrageur, gentleman farmer and combat pilot. Funeral services will be held 10 A.M., Sunday at Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Road, Roslyn, New York.
        COHEN-Albert B. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the death of cherished friend and longtime Board member, Albert B. Cohen. A gentle man who spoke through his deeds, he was loved by the countless people whose lives he touched. Devoted to his family and the Jewish community, Al Cohen epitomized the highest ideals of Judaism giving generously to Temple Beth Sholom, UJA-Federation, the North Shore Long Island Jewish Health Center and the Jewish Theological Seminary. A member of the JTS Society of Fellows, he and his beloved wife Bernice recently endowed the Albert B. and Bernice Cohen Chair in Medieval Jewish literature. Our hearts go our to Bernice, his children, Stephen and Laura, Robert, Marla and Jim, Jeffrey and Shelly, his nine grandchildren and his entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Chairman
        COHEN-Albert. Temple Beth Sholom notes with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Albert Cohen. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Bernice, our Executive Director and to the entire family. Funeral will be held at Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights on Sunday, December 26 at 10 A.M. Members of Temple Beth Sholom
        COHEN-Albert B. Beloved friend, mentor, a most exemplory human being who certainly left this world a better place. I had the good fortune to work with him for 24 years. He enriched the lives of all who knew him. My heartfelt sympathy to Bernice and the entire Cohen family. He will be deeply missed. Marcia Levine
      