
        JAFFIN-George M.. Adored and beloved husband of Janet, loving father of Doris Greenberg, Lois Levine and David Jaffin. Caring father-in-law of Lee Greenberg and Rosemary Jaffin. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan Greenberg, Walter Greenberg, Matthew Greenberg, Daniella Cava, Julie Levine, and Carl Levine. Loving great-grandfather of Eliza Cava, Teddy Cava, and Aron Cava. His memory will be a blessing because he was a blessing to us and so many others. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, December 26, 12 Noon, at Kol Ami Synagogue, Soundview Avenue, White Plains, New York.
        JAFFIN-George M. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, record with profound sorrow the death of George M. Jaffin, a member of the Board of Governors for decades. An honorary member of the Board, George Jaffin was deeply committed and involved in the life of the College-Institute. He epitomized the highest ideals of Judaism as reflected in his devotion to his faith and people. George's life will always serve as the model for commitment to the Jewish people throughout the world. His generosity and broad spirit of humanity enriched the lives of people everywhere. We shall not see his kind again. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Janet, his children and grandchildren, whose loss we share. May George's memory be for a blessing. May the family find comfort with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman President Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Dr. Norman J. Cohen, Provost Rabbi Aaron Panken, Dean New York School Dr. Paul M. Steinberg Special Assistant to the President Mr. Burton Lehman, Chair Board of Governors
        JAFFIN-George M. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute and the Officers of the HJD Research & Development Foundation mourn the passing of George Jaffin, distinguished honorary Chairman of the Board of Trustees and R&D Foundation. Mr. Jaffin was a longstanding committed friend and benefactor of the hospital. With great foresight, together with his devoted wife Janet, he generously supported our major initiatives. He has left an indelible mark on the hospital through his encouragement in helping us achieve our goals. We mourn his passing as we celebrate his exemplary life and extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Janet, his children and to the entire family. William A. Perlmuth Chairman of the Board John N. Kastanis, FACHE President and Chief Executive Officer Victor H. Frankel, M.D. President Emeritus Joseph D. Zuckerman, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief
        JAFFIN-George M. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of George M. Jaffin, a long-time friend and esteemed member of our Society of Founders and a Guardian of our University. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Janet; his children Doris (Leon) Greenberg, Lois Levine and David (Rosemarie) Jaffin, and the entire family. Yeshiva Unversity Dr. Norman Lamm, President David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        JAFFIN-George M. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the death of George M. Jaffin, a dedicated friend and extraordinary philanthropist. He will long be remembered in the Jewish community for his commitment and vision and for his support of cultural and educational institutions. We extend our sincere sympathy to his beloved wife, Janet, and his children, David, Doris Greenberg, and Lois Levine, and all the members of the family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        JAFFIN-George M. We lost the most beloved Honorary Chairman of our board. A true leader who reached out to hundreds of his friends to support our scholarship fund since 1965-we will miss his enthusiasm and love for Israeli artists. Our fondest thoughts to Janet and the family. Vera Stern, President Meira Geyra, Artistic Director America-Israel Cultural Foundation Ronnie Ackman, Secretary
        JAFFIN-George. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of its esteemed longtime member George Jaffin, a former vice president and cherished leader of our congregation. We extend sincere condolences to his beloved Janet and the entire family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Thomas Weiner Cantor Annie Lynn Bornstein Mark A. Hershey, President
        JAFFIN-George. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed life member and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Janet, and his family. Jay M. Rosen, President Corey B. Rabin, Secretary
        JAFFIN-George M. We will miss George M. Jaffin, a wonderful partner, friend and mentor who left our world a better place by his being here. Milton & Shirley Cooper & family
      