
        BERNSTEIN-Martin. On December 19 in New York City, age 95. Beloved husband of Virginia Lubkin, M.D. and loving father of the late Ellen Schanzer of Elizabeth, N.J., James of Washington, DC, Roger of New York City, and John of Baltimore, Md; affectionate grandfather of Bruce, Bella, Juliet and Philip Schanzer, Susannah, Rachel, Martin and Sarah Bernstein, Lara and Danielle Bernstein and Elizabeth and David Bernstein; and great-grandfather of Jesse Schanzer and Jared and Elana Rutner. Decorated Army veteran (Bronze Star) who volunteered for service in the Second World War. A renaissance man who, in his long life, played the double-bass in the New York Philharmonic in the 1920s under the baton of Richard Strauss, Furtwaengler, and Toscanini, among others. Professor Bernstein was chairman of the Music Department of New York University, founded the NYU Washington Square College Chorus and Orchestra and the American Bach Society, and wrote one of the first university textbooks on musicology ''An Intrduction to Music''.
        BERNSTEIN-Martin, Professor. On behalf of myself, my wife Pearl and the staff of Vanguard Classics and Bach Guild Records, I would like to express our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Virginia Lubkin, M.D., on the death of Professor Martin Bernstein. Without doubt Martin was a seminal influence on my life and on the lives of many of the people who took his classes at Washington Square. He was one of the most brilliant teachers of music that I ever encountered and a brilliant lecturer, being one of the first, if not the very first in his field who used visual arts and tape recordings to demonstrate musicological points at a time when such techniques were almost unknown. Most importantly, through his creation of a Washington Square Chorus and Orchestra, Professor Bernstein exposed those who played in it to musical material which was, for the most part, unknown and in many cases not even published. Not only did we play the music but we copied out the parts from the original sources so it could be played, and as a matter of fact, at our last meeting a few weeks ago, Martin said that having his students do this was one of his proudest accomplishments. The music we played embraced all styles, from the early baroque period to the 20th century. To me this was a revelation. We heard choral music of Bach and Purcell which had not been played in modern times, as well as contemporary music by Randall Thompson, Paul Hindemith and others. In fact, I can safely say were it not for the influence of Professor Bernstein, Vanguard and Bach Guild Records would have had a much harder time being born. This influence also extended to many other individuals who became executives in the music field. So, Martin, I thank you for what you accomplished and don't lecture them too hard when you get up there. With all our love, Pearl and Seymour Solomon and the entire staff of Vanguard Classics and Bach Guild Records
        BERNSTEIN-Martin. NYU'S Graduate School of Arts and Science mourns the passing of Martin Bernstein-alumnus, teacher and master musician. A former member of the New York Philharmonic, Professor Bernstein chaired our music department for 18 years, receiving NYU's Great Teacher Award in 1968. He will be missed at NYU and by music lovers everywhere. We send our sympathies to his family.
      