
        ALEXANDER-Virginia T. Age 45. On Tuesday, December 7, 1999. Beloved wife of Richard. Cherished mother of David and Lauren. Dearest daughter of Peggy & Alan Tishman. Devoted sister of Pat Hall. Sister-in-law of Wendy and Bob Meister and Gail and Ira Mason. Daughter-in-law of Selma Alexander. Beloved aunt to nieces and nephews, Adam and Laurie Bramwell, Margaret and David Doyle, Cori & Seth Berger, Jonathan Mason, Todd and Keith Meister. Her memory will light the lives of her family and her many friends whom she loved so dearly. Services: Thursday, December 9th, 11AM, Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. (at 65 St). The family will be sitting shiva at 1095 Park Avenue on Thursday, December 9th, 7PM9PM, Friday, December 10th, 10AM-12Noon. Saturday, December 11th, 7PM-9PM and Sunday, December 12th, 1 PM-7 PM. Contributions may be made to the Nina Alexander Scholarship Fund at Dalton School.
        ALEXANDER-Virginia T. (Nina). The Board of Trustees, management and staff of The Jewish Home and Hospital extend heartfelt sympathies to Mrs. Peggy Tishman, former Trustee, and her husband Alan, on the untimely loss of her daughter, Nina Alexander. Mrs. Tishman is well known in the Jewish community for her leadership and generous philanthropic support. She was chairperson of The Jewish Home's 150th Anniversary Gala. Nina proudly carried on her family's tradition of dedication and support and was a loving wife and mother as well as a successful businesswoman. She was active in many UJA-Federation activities and her involvement in the community enriched all our lives. She will be greatly missed. We sincerely hope that the memories of Nina bring comfort to her family at this difficult time. David Jones, Chairman of the Board Sheldon Goldberg, President/CEO
        ALEXANDER-Nina. The faculty, alumni and staff of the Wexner Heritage Foundation mourn the untimely loss of Nina Alexander, a devoted wife and mother, a successful businesswoman and a strong and generous supporter of many institutions. Nina was a vital participant in the Jewish community, dedicated to many causes, an active member of UJA Federation, a longtime supporter of the Weizmann Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital and a valued member of the Wexner New York group. Her courage, strength of character and energy touched the lives of all who knew her. Our sympathies extend to her husband Richard and children David and Lauren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. The Wexner Heritage Foundation Rabbi Nathan Laufer, President
        ALEXANDER - Virginia (Nina). The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds extend their heartfelt condolences to Alan Tishman, an honorary chairman and former guest of honor of its Real Estate and Construction Division, and his wife Peggy on the tragic and untimely passing of their daughter Nina. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gideon Patt President and CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg National Campaign Chairman Howard Hirsch, Chairman Metropolitan NY Campaign Jerry L. Cohen, Chairman Real Estate and Construction Division
        ALEXANDER-Nina. Israel Policy Forum mourns the loss of Nina Alexander, beloved daughter of our board member and good friend, Peggy Tishman, and her husband, Alan. Nina is survived by her husband, Richard, and two children, David and Lauren. She was a devoted and self-sacrificing member of New York's Jewish community, a woman whose love of life brought joy and goodness to so many people. May her family and friends be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Michael W. Sonnenfeldt, Chair Jack Bendheim, President Ted Mann, Executive Committee Chair Jonathan Jacoby, Executive Vice President
        ALEXANDER - Virginia (Nina). The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership extend deepest condolences to Peggy Tishman, our esteemed Board member, her husband Alan and the entire family on the passing of their beloved daughter Nina. May the loving memory of Nina's inspiration, wisdom and courage enhance the life of her family. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Barbara B. Friedman, Chairman Rabbi Irwin Kula, President Donna M. Rosenthal, Executive Vice Chairman
        ALEXANDER - Virginia. We mourn the death of the vibrant and courageous daughter of Peggy and Alan Tishman, our friends and generous benefactors. Our sympathies to them and to all the members of Nina's family. The Board and Staff The Brookdale Center on Aging of Hunter College
        ALEXANDER - Nina. Temple Shaaray Tefila records her death with profound sorrow. We extend our sympathy to her mother and father, Peggy and Alan Tishman, our beloved members; her husband Richard, her children and all of her grieving family. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, President
        ALEXANDER - Nina (Virginia). Our hearts go out to our Trustee, Alan Tishman, Peggy, and all Nina Alexander's family and friends. The Staff and Board of Jewish Childcare Association Joyce L. Kramer, Pres. Paul Gitelson, DSW, Exec. Vice Pres.
        ALEXANDER - Virginia (Nina). Dearest Dick, David, Lauren, Peggy, Alan and Pat, our hearts are heavy today with the loss of your beautiful Nina. Although she is gone, her spirit will live on in our memories always and forever. Love, Carol, Michael, Brett and Jed Weisman
        ALEXANDER-Nina. Our dear friend will always live in our hearts. Her life and love illuminated and inspired all who were lucky enough to have known her. Our heartfelt condolences to Dick, David and Lauren. Henry, Elise, John and Amanda
        ALEXANDER-Nina. We deeply mourn the untimely passing of our dearest friend, Nina. We grieve for Dick, David and Lauren. We will always be there. Nina, we will miss you. Jo Ann, Paul, Scott and Alexandra Alter
        ALEXANDER-Nina. Your courage, love and friendship will be your legacy to all of us. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and deepest love to Dick, David, Lauren and the family. Hazel, Arnold, Eddie and Julie Manheimer
        ALEXANDER-Nina. Your laughter and your love lit up our lives, and you will remain always in our hearts. To Dick, David and Lauren, our deepest sympathy and all our love. Laurie, John, Matthew, Spencer and Amanda Rudey
        ALEXANDER-Virginia (Nina). To our dear, dear friend, Nina. We will love you and miss you always. You will forever be an inspiration to us. Shelley, Jay, Jared, Ariel, and Spencer LeBoff
        ALEXANDER-Virginia T. Beloved friend and business partner. Your exuberant personality, humor and insight will be missed. Your indomitable spirit and incredible courage will inspire us always. Lynn and Marty Halbfinger
      