
        FOSTER-Elizabeth Read, 87, historian and educator, died peacefully in her home November 27, 1999 in Wayne, PA. She was born on June 26, 1912 in Chicago, the daughter of Conyers Read, a historian, and Edith Coulson Kirk Read. She grew up in Villanova, PA., and graduated from Vassar College in 1933. At Vassar, she saw classmates forced to withdraw because of the Great Depression, and so organized a successful undergraduate effort to raise enough funds to bring them all back. In 1932-33, she was elected head of the Vassar student body and vice president of the National Federation of Students. In 1933-34, she worked as assistant dean in charge of residence halls at Barnard College and as grading supervisor for the Educational Testing Service. She received an M.A. in Sociology from Columbia University (1934) and, with support from a Vassar fellowship, a Ph.D. in history from Yale University (1938). At Yale she was drawn into the study of English parliamentary history under the aegis of Hartley Simpson and Wallace Notestein. In 1938, she married Richard W. Foster, a bookseller; they had four sons. She returned to academic life in 1953 as a part-time instructor of history at Ursinus College, Collegeville, PA (assistant professor 1956, associate 1962) and a visiting associate professor at the University of Delaware (196263). Her first book, ''Proceedings in Parliament 1610'' (2 volumes, 1965), established her as a leading scholar of Stuart England. She was appointed Research Fellow and Acting Director of the Yale Center for Parliamentary History (1965) and Professor of History at Bryn Mawr College (professor emeritus 1981). As first dean of the Bryn Mawr Graduate School (1966-70), she reorganized it as the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (dean 1970-73). She worked to raise the faculty and student standards of the Graduate School and to enhance its position nationally, especially through her service on the Committee on Policies, Plans and Resolutions and on the Executive Committee of the Council of Graduate Schools. She presided over a period of rapid growth in the Graduate School, including two new programs (Biochemistry and the History of Science), and was an effective seeker of federal funds for education. She also found financial support for part-time study and actively encouraged graduate student self-government and faculty research. Her interests in the history of English parliamentary and judicial procedure and recordkeeping were further developed in three books, ''The House of Lords 1603-1649'' (1983) and two studies of Henry Elsyng, clerk of the parliaments 1621-35, ''The Painful Labour of Mr. Elsyng'' (1972) and ''Judicature in Parliament by Henry Elsyng Clerk of the Parliaments'' (1991), and in numerous articles. After retirement, she was special advisor to the president of Bryn Mawr College on various projects, including design and construction of new library facilities and the expansion of the science building, and continued her lifelong association with the editorial board and advisory council of the Yale Center for Parliamentary History. In 1979, the Yale Graduate School awarded her its Wilbur Lucius Cross Medal for outstanding achievement in scholarship, teaching and academic administration. She was a member of the American Historical Association (editorial board of the ''American Historical Review,'' 1979-81), the Conference on British Studies (council, 1968-73), the Royal Historical Society, Society of Antiquaries, the British Museum, Middle Atlantic Conference on British Studies and other professional associations. In civic and private life, she was active for some years in the Pennsylvania League of Women Voters and the Federation for Planned Parenthood, and was always interested in supporting education opportunities for women. She is survived by her husband, Richard W. Foster; sons Richard C., Timothy, Benjamin R. and Daniel W.; and six grandchildren.
      