
        GOLDHAR-Maxwell, 82, a man who enriched the lives of his family, friends and the people of Ontario, died suddenly at home Tuesday night from a heart attack. Still active in business and pursuing his dreams through his last days, Mr. Goldhar left major accomplishments and a loving circle of family and friends behind him. Mr. Goldhar devoted over 50 years of his life to voluntary service, and he was recently invested with the Order of Ontario. He was well known for his substantial contributions to technology, manufacturing and natural resources companies in Canada and internationally, in particular Ontario Store Fixtures, Fantom Technologies and Fifty Plus Net International. As a business leader he earned the nickname ''Dr. Business'' for his achievements in helping to ''turn around'' declining Ontario companies. Founding president of the President's Council of the Canadian Opera Company and a founding director of the York Racquet Club, Hockley Valley Ski Club and the Island Yacht Club, Mr. Goldhar was a leader who constructively countered the exclusion of Jews from many of the city's social organizations by opening new opportunities for them through these organizations. Mr. Goldhar was treasurer of the building campaign for the northern YMHA and served for many years as director of the Canadian Society for the Weizmann Institute of Science. At the time of his death, Mr. Goldhar was an active director of ''CARP,'' the Canadian Association of Retired Persons, and a founding director of Fifty Plus Net International, the leading Internet supplier to seniors in Canada. Mr. Goldhar recently joined the board of Sunnybrook and Women's Health Sciences Centre, and served as Chair of the Board of Women's College Health Research Inc. Previously, he served as the Chair of the Hospital Council of Metropolitan Toronto, Chair of the Board of both the Northwestern General Hospital and the Northwestern Health Centre Foundation, a director of Women's College Hospital and treasurer of the Alzheimer Association of Ontario. He is survived by his loving family: by his son, Dan, and Dan's wife, Janet; by daughters Nancy, Heather and Renanah and Heather's partner, James Neal; by his grandchildren Jeremy and Rachel; his brothers Albert and Morty and their wives Booty and Rosemary, respectively; and by his sister, Wendy Rue. Mr. Goldhar was predeceased by his wife of 50 years, Jeanette, and survived by his loving spouse, Marilou McPhedran. Services will be conducted at 2:30 PM today by Mr. Goldhar's close friend and tennis partner, Rabbi Gunther Plaut, at Holy Blossom Temple in Toronto.
      