
        SWANSON-Robert A., the founder of the biotech industry, died at his home in Hillsborough, CA. on December 6, 1999, after a 14-month battle with brain cancer. At his bedside were his wife Judy Church Swanson, their daughters Katie and Erica and his mothr, Arline Baker Swanson, of Foster City, CA. He was 52. Selected by Esquire Magazine as one whose life and work exemplified America's highest qualities and values. Courage, Originality, Ingenuity, Vision, Selfless Service. He was regarded as one of the best of a new generation. Born in Brooklyn, New York, Bob grew up in Florida, the only child of a career employee at Eastern Airlines. Bob graduated from Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, earning both his BS in Chemistry and an MS degree from MIT's Alfred P. Sloan School of Management. Bob was one of the first MIT graduates to complete his MBA in his fourth year of college. Bob was a loyal MIT alumnus serving as trustee, as well as on various visiting committees. Bob gained world acclaim for starting the biotech revolution, which has impacted the lives of millions of people throughout the world. He began his career as an investment officer at Citicorp Venture Capital, Ltd. and later became a partner at Kleiner & Perkins. Bob's life goal was to change the world for the better and he did. In 1976, at age 29, Bob and UCSF scientist, Herbert W. Boyer, founded Genentech, Inc. Genentech was the first and most successful biotechnology firm. Bob served as CEO of Genentech from 1976-1990 and as Chairman of the Board from 1990-1996. Under his guidance, Genentech developed human insulin, interferon, human growth hormone and TPA. In recent years, Bob continued his passion for creating science by working with a wide range of pioneering startup companies, including serving as Chairman of Tularik. Throughout his life, Bob received many awards, but the ones he valued most were for his daughters' soccer teams. Bob's first priority was always his family. He was a loving and committed man who continually supported his community. He served as trustee of the San Francisco Ballet, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, and the San Jose Tech Center and as Chairman of the Board of Nueva School. Regarded by the Japanese press as the Man Who Captured the Rainbow, he was clearly the man who captured the hearts of all who knew him. Memorial Services will be held at the Stanford Memorial Church in Palo Alto, CA, on December 20 at 3 P.M. The family asks that contributions in Bob's memory be made to the Peninsula Community Foundation, C/O The Robert A. Swanson Memorial Fund, at 1700 South El Camino Real, Suite 300, San Mateo, California 94402-3049.
      