
        BERSON-Harold E., M.D. Of Stuart, FL. Beloved husband of Florence (Selikowitz), devoted father of Drs. Diane and Mark Lebowitz, and Denise and Mitchell Tanzman, loving grandfather of Alex, Emily, Danielle and Olivia. Past President of the Brooklyn Psychiatric and Neurology Societies. Life fellow of the American Psychiatric Association and delegate to its assembly. Funeral services Thursday noon at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam.
        BERSON-Harold, MD. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with sorrow the death of Dr. Harold Berson. Dr. Berson was a Psychiatrist in the Department of Psychiatry for over forty years. He will be sorely missed by all his patients, colleagues, and friends. Sincere condolences are extended to his entire family. David Feldman, MD, Pres. Salvatore DeGliuomini, MD President-Elect Steven Farber, MD, Sec'y Herbert Lehman, MD, Treasurer
        BERSON-Harold E., M.D. The Offices and Members of the Brooklyn Psychiatric Society, the Kings County District Branch of the American Psychiatric Association, are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member and Past President, Dr. Harold Berson. Dr. Berson was our Alternate Delegate to the Assembly of the American Psychiatric Association for 20 years and was a founding member of the APA (Lifers). Our heartfelt condolences to Florence, Diane, Denise and family. Lenore Engel, M.D., President
        BERSON-Harold, M.D. The Department of Psychiatry of Maimonides Medical Center deeply mourns the death of our esteemed colleague Dr. Harold Berson. His devotion to physchiatry, his enthusiasm and his dedication to his patients served as a model for those of us who knew him. Our deepest condolences to his devoted wife Florence and to his children Diane and Denise. Marvin H. Lipkowitz, M.D. Chairman Department of Psychiatry Maimonides Medical Center
        BERSON-Harold, MD. The Board of Governors and Members of Inwood Country Club record with sorrow the passing of Dr. Harold Berson, beloved husband of Florence, and we extend deepest sympathy to the family. Robert Scharf, President Allan Sexter, Secretary
        BERSON-Harold, M.D. Our hearts go out to our dear friends, Diane, Mark, Denise, Mitchell, Florence, Alex, Emily, Danielle and Olivia on their great loss. Harold was a very special person whom we will always remember. Abbie, Kenneth and Maria Cole
        BERSON-Harold, M.D. Our deepest sympathies and condolences to Denise Tanzman and her family on the loss of her beloved father. Everyone at Kenneth Cole Productions
        BERSON-Harold E., M.D. The Brooklyn Alumni Club PLK-MSAS mourns the passing of their beloved frater and expresses their deep sympathy to his wife, Florence, and the family.
      