
        GOLDENSON-Leonard H.. The Board, staff and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with profound and deep sorrow the passing of Leonard Goldenson, who helped to create both ABC and UCP. As a result of rubella during pregnancy, Leonard and Isabelle's eldest daughter, Genise, nicknamed ''Cookie'', was diagnosed with cerebral palsy. They joined other parents of children with cerebral palsy, notably Jack and Ethel Hausman and Irving Sloan, founders of UCP/NYC, to build a state-wide and national movement. Leonard recruited celebrities including Marlene Dietrich, Jinx Falkenberg, Arlene Francis, Bob Hope, Tex McCrary and Jane Pickens to support UCP and, in 1950, launched the first UCP telethon hosted by Dennis James. For nearly 50 years, both in New York City and throughout the nation, Leonard helped to make UCP the largest health organization in the U.S. He can never be replaced. We extend our condolences to Isabelle, his daughters Loreen and Maxine, and grandson Lucas. Leo Hausman, Chairman Martin C. Hausman, President Edward R. Matthews, Exec. Dir. Ronald J.H. Napal, Associate Executive Director, Development & Public Relations United Ceberal Palsy of NYC, Inc
        GOLDENSON-Leonard H. United Cerebral Palsy Associations Inc. Co-Founder and Chairman Leonard H. Goldenson died on December 27, 1999 at his home in Longboat Key, FL. He was 94 and had been ill for several years. Mr. Goldenson co-founded The United Cerebral Palsy Association in 1949. He was the first national president of UCP and served for 5 years. ''He placed UCP on the map immediately because of his television experience'', said Nina Eaton, Co-Founder of UCP. With his leadership, UCP has emerged as one of the country's largest health charities with 139 affiliates and directly serving over one million people with cerebral palsy and other disabilities. Ms. Eaton remembers working with Mr. Goldenson on the fight to advance the lives of people with disabilities and their families ''we would never have gotten where we have without him. I will miss his guidance, influence and caring spirit''. '' The entire UCP family shares the loss of Leonard Goldenson. We appreciate and remember his tremendous contributions as a charitable leader in the disability community'' said Charles H. Moses, III Esquire, President, UCPA. Nina Eaton, Co-Founder UCPA Charles H. Moses, III, Esquire President Kirsten A. Nyrop, Exec Director
        GOLDENSON-Leonard H. It is with deep sorrow that the Rabbis, Officers, Trustees, and members of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York record the death of our cherished Honorary Trustee, Leonard H. Goldenson. The quintessential gentleman, who possessed an outstanding intellect and generous heart, he strode as a quiet giant in the broadcast industry that so changed the nature of American and world culture during the second half of the 20th century. He was a man who achieved greatness and yet lived his life with impeccable integrity and admirable humility. He will be remembered not only for the grandeur of his achievements, but as a human being who shared his wisdom to help improve the lives of so many who were not as fortunate as he. With his beloved wife and children, we mourn his passing while giving thanks to God for the legacy he bequeaths. The memory of Leonard H. Goldenson will forever be a blessing. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        GOLDENSON-Leonard H. Faculty and staff of Harvard Medical School mourn the loss of Leonard Goldenson, a generous benefactor who had the vision to see the role of basic biomedical sciences in improving the health and well being of human kind. With is wife Isabelle, he had the foresight to invest in basic neuroscience research as a step in helping those with cerebral palsy and other neurological disorders. Our thoughts are with Isabelle and their daughters, Loreen Arbus and Maxine Goldenson. Joseph B. Martin, Dean of the Harvard Faculty of Medicine Harvard Medical School
        GOLDENSON-Leonard H. Leonard H. Goldenson died December 27, 1999. In addition to founding the United Cerebral Palsy Association and UCP of New York City, Mr. Goldenson was a founder of the UCP Research and Educational Foundation. His leadership of the Foundation over many years and his commitment to the people it serves will be greatly missed. Murray Goldstein, D.O., M.P.H. Director, UCP Research and Educational Foundation
      