
        MAHON-Jackson Barrett, DFC, WWII Ace, Errol Flynn's Manager, Producer, December 4, 1999 in Las Vegas. Jackson Barrett (Barry) Mahon born Santa Barbara, California, 1921. In 1941 he joined the Royal Air Force and began flying Spitfires in combat with Eagle Squadron 121. After 98 strategic missions he was reported missing in action following a raid over Northern France just after being credited with his ninth downed plane. The British Air Ministry awarded him the Distinguished Flying Cross, not knowing his whereabouts. The citation declared him to be ''An extremely skillful and confident pilot, whose courage, especially when attacking superior numbers of hostile aircraft has been unsurpassed''. At Stalag Luft III, Mahon worked on the tunnels made famous by the movie, ''The Great Escape'', starring Steve McQueen whose role was based on Mahon's experiences. He escaped before that breakout, and was captured on the Czech border when his feet became too sore to go on. He escaped again only to be recaptured. Mahon was finally liberated by Patton's 3rd Army in 1945. After the war, Mahon became the personal pilot, and later manager of movie star Errol Flynn producing a number of Flynn and Gina Lollabrigida pictures, as well as a considerable output of children's programs. Mahon established ''The Production Machine'', a production company making motion pictures for theatrical and television release. Mahon was the first movie producer to adapt and apply computer technology to the breakdown, scheduling, budgeting and financial analysis of featurelength motion pictures as well as television movies. Jackson Mahon is survived by his wife, Clelle Ann McAllister of Henderson, NV; four children, Doris Keating Schlesinger (Barry) of Los Angeles, CA and Henderson, NV; Chandos (Teri) of Chatsworth, CA, Sharon Scheur (Lawrence) of Williamsville, NY and Summerlin, NV and Barrett (Kathryn) of Agoura Hills, CA, and 6 grandchildren. A memorial service will be a the convenience of the family in Cathey's Valley, California. Information by Desert Memorial Cremation Society, North Las Vegas, Nevada.
      