
        RESNICK-Pearl. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends, mourn the passing of one of our most beloved leaders, who played an important role in our development, Pearl Resnick. Together with her late husband, Jack, she was a longtime patron of the University. After his passing, she continued her involvement not only as a benefactress, but also as a member of both the Global Board of Trustees and the American Board of Trustees. Her interest in every program of the University's mission was tremendous. She loved the traditional dimension of the University and was especially concerned with the personal welfare of faculty and students, particularly those who had emigrated from Russia. Indeed, she established the Jack and Pearl Resnick Institute for the Absorbtion and Retraining of Russian Immigrant Scientists, and subsequently built the permanent home of the Resnick Institute. Beyond the actual programs, her warm and loving personality evoked enormous respect from all who had the privilege to know her. She was truly love incarnate. To her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren she was a loving and devoted matriarch whose love was characteristic of her person and all that she did. With this love, she inspired her family to carry on with her same spirit of matchless generosity for every worthy cause, Jewish, American and humanitarian. There can be no doubt that she will be missed by all of us. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor, Bar-Ilan University Prof. Moshe Kaveh, President, Bar-Ilan University Aharon Dahan, Chairman, Global Board of Trustees Charles Dimston, Chairman, American Board of Trustees Melvin Stein, President, American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Gen. (Ret.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President Bar-Ilan University
        RESNICK-Pearl. The DOROT community is stricken by the passing of Pearl Resnick, a remarkable woman whose clear-eyed, warmhearted support of major medical, communal, educational and arts organizations improved the lives of thousands. Pearl was the source of a tradition of communal involvement that has flowed like a shining stream from generation to generation in her family. As a generous DOROT supporter and sponsor of our Thanksgiving Banquet for the elderly, Pearl created an annual highlight that truly gave our elders reason to give thanks, and an experience to cherish throughout the year. Her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren carry on her tradition through their leadership as members of the DOROT Board, service on planning committees, fundraising efforts, and hands-on participation in our Package Deliveries. Pearl was the designated recipient of DOROT's Rose Sommer Generations Award, which she would have received at DOROT's Gala in May 2000 as part of a salute to the Katz-Resnick family, ''Four Generations Helping Generations''. We are devastated that the award will have to be presented posthumously. Our hearts go out to Pearl's children: Marilyn and Stanley, Burton and Judith, and Ira and Paula; her grandchildren: Neil and Amy, Bruce and Bonnie, Roni and Stuart, Scott, John and Susie, Peter, Daniel, Benjamin, Joshua, Jordana; her great-grandchildren: Jaclyn, David, Nicole, Brian, and Stephanie; and her extended family upon the loss of this vivacious and inspiring woman. May they find solace in their personal memories, in her legacy of tzedka and chesed which flourishes in them, and in the knowledge that her name will forever be a blessing. Vivian Fenster Ehrlich, Executive Director Anne E. Heyman, President Renee Adler Ascher, Board Chair
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Yeshiva University family is profoundly grieved by the passing of a dear friend, a distinguished humanitarian, and a communal leader who was the matriarch of a family that has long played a leadership role at YU and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine. Widely beloved for her sterling character and inspiring personality, she was a YU Trustee, AECOM Overseer, and Benefactor with her late husband, Jack Resnick, a longtime AECOM Overseer. In 1989, the University conferred upon her an honorary doctor of humane letters degree, noting her ''staunch dedication and tireless efforts on behalf of this University.'' For their endowment of a range of vital programs at AECOM, Mr. and Mrs. Resnick were honored in 1990 with the naming of the College's Jack and Pearl Resnick Campus. The family legacy is continued by children, Benefactors Burton P. (and Judith) Resnick, chairman, Executive Committee, YU Board of Trustees, and chairperson, AECOM Board of Overseers; Marilyn (and Stanley M.) Katz, Benefactors and AECOM Board members; and Ira (and Paula) Resnick, YU Guardians. We extend our heartfelt condolences as well to grandchildren and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        RESNICK-Pearl. We will miss the warmth, grace and compassion of our very special friend and Benefactor, who for more than four decades helped to nurture and sustain medical research and educational programs at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University. We are honored to have known her and to have benefited from her wise counsel as a distinguished member of our Board of Overseers and of the board of our National Women's Division. Her good deeds on our behalf include the endowment of an academic chair in brain tumor research in memory of her late daughter, Susan Fisher, and, with her late husband Jack, the establishment of a gerontology center. In 1990, in recognition of the extraordinary role Pearl and Jack Resnick played in the life of our institution, we proudly named our campus in their honor. To Mrs. Resnick's children, Burton P. Resnick, chairperson of our Board, and his wife Judith; to Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz, members of our Board, and Ira Resnick, a respected member of our Society of Founders, and his wife, Paula; to her ten grandchildren and to the entire family, we extend our most heartfelt sympathy. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of a deeply revered and esteemed supporter, a beloved and cherished friend, and one of the great leaders and humanitarians in the American Jewish community. Evoking a lifelong devotion to Israel's economic growth and development, this gracious, warm-hearted lady was in the highest echelon of individual bond purchasers. Moreover, her pacesetting participation in the Israel Bonds program was matched in equal measure by her generous philanthropy to a broad spectrum of religious, medical and educational causes in both the United States and Israel. We extend our sincerest condolences to her son Burton P. Resnick, Chairman of the Board of Israel Bonds, and to the entire Resnick family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gideon Patt President and CEO Michael Siegal Vice Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg National Campaign Chairman Marlene Post Prime Minister's Club Chairman Howard Hirsch, Chairman Metropolitan NY Campaign Peter S. Kalikow, Chairman Corporate and Professional Division
        RESNICK-Pearl. Sutton Place Synagogue records with deep sorrow the loss of our beloved Vice President, Founder of our Patrons Society, devoted congregant, treasured friend. Pearl and her late husband Jack played a major role in the growth of our congregation through their intense involvement and philanthropy. Her sweet manner, grace and kindness knew no boundaries. She was interested in everyone and everything and never ceased expanding her circle of friends and interests. Her beauty, warmth and broad smile lit our sanctuary when she was present. That light has gone out, but her good deeds will continue to shine. Our heartfelt condolences to her loving children, Marilyn and Stanley Katz, Burton and Judith Resnick, Ira and Paula Resnick, adored grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. May their sweet memories of the matriarch of their extraordinary family sustain them in this sad time. May God comfort them among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President Dov Keren, Cantor Harriet Janover, Exec. Director
        RESNICK-Pearl . The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are saddened by the passing of a great and generous woman whose grace, dignity, and compassion were a beacon that inspired so many to embrace the Jewish tradition of tzedakah. She was a long-time, dedicated supporter of UJA-Federation and was a Lion of Judah. She and her late husband, Jack, were extraordinary benefactors of many educational and medical institutions in New York and Israel. Mrs. Resnick's son Burton carries on the family's long-time philanthropic commitment to UJA-Federation, as a past campaign chairman and most recently with his involvement at F.E.G.S., a UJA-Federation beneficiary. In addition to Burton, Mrs. Resnick is survived by Burton's wife, Judy; a son, Ira, and his wife, Paula; a daughter, Marilyn Resnick Katz and her husband, Stanley; ten grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. To the entire family, we express our sincere condolences and sympathy. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        RESNICK-Pearl. The National Women's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply grieved at the passing of our beloved friend. A true woman of valor, her parting leaves a void in our hearts and in the heart of our organization. She was a continual source of guidance and inspiration, who served for many years both on our National Board and on the Executive Board of the New York Chapter. We are most grateful that her extraordinary devotion to the National Women's Division is carried on by daughter Marilyn Katz and daughter-in-law Judith Resnick, both members of our National Board and the WestchesterFairfield Board. She will be sorely missed. To the entire family, we send our most sincere condolences. Alice Kent, President National Women's Division Judy R. Rosenberg Chairwoman Executive Committee, National Women's Division
        RESNICK-Pearl. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum deeply mourns the passing of Pearl Resnick, a leader of the New York philanthropic community and one of the esteemed visionaries whose early commitment made possible the creation of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. Her foresight and generosity on behalf of Holocaust scholarship led to the creation of the Pearl Resnick Fellowship in the Museum's Center for Advanced Holocaust Studies. Awarded annually to a young academic, the Resnick Fellowship was created to encourage the development of a new generation of scholars. The Museum extends its deepest condolences to her son Burton P. Resnick, a member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, his wife Judith, and to the entire Resnick family. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Miles Lerman, Chairperson Ruth B. Mandel, Vice Chairperson Sara J. Bloomfield, Director
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Board of Director, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, deeply mourn the death of our dear friend and longtime Director, Pearl Resnick, beloved wife of the late Jack Resnick. Pearl's indomitable spirit and unwavering optimism, along with her warmth and kindness, is profoundly missed by all of us. We extend our sincere sympathy to her devoted children, Burton P. (Judith) Resnick, Marilyn (Stanley) Katz, Ira (Paula) Resnick, the family of the late Susan (Sanford) Fisher, her grandchildren and the entire Resnick family. Her son Burt and son-in-law Stanley continue her legacy of wisdom and compassion as members of the Hebrew Home Board. We share your loss, and hope that your loving memories of Pearl will ease your sorrow during this time of sadness. Milton A. Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman Daniel A. Reingold, Exec V.P.
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Board of Trustees, Medical Board and Administration of Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) join with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Pearl Resnick, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Burton P. Resnick, a Beth Israel Trustee and Chairperson of the Board of Overseers of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, for which Beth Israel serves as University Hospital and Manhattan Campus. To Burt, the entire Resnick family, and to all who loved her, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Boards of Trustees, Continuum and BIMC Robert G. Newman, M.D. President and CEO, Continuum Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO, BIMC Henry S. Singman, M.D. President, Medical Board, BIMC
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with profound sorrow the death of Pearl Resnick, a beloved member of the board and longtime supporter of JTS. Her presence added a dimension of grace to our community; her compassion and devotion to Klal Yisrael earned her the deep respect of all who knew her. A member of the JTS Society of Fellows, her extraordinary gifts include the creation of the Jack and Pearl Resnick Internship Program for rabbinical students in the endowment of the deanship of the Rabbinical School. Pre-deceased by her husband Jack and her daughter Susan Fisher, she is survived by three children, Burton, Marilyn Katz and Ira; ten grandchildren; and four great grandchildren. Our heartfelt condolences go to her entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Chairman
        RESNICK - Pearl The Simon Wiesenthal Center mourns the loss of Trustee and Moriah Films Benefactor, Pearl Resnick and extends its sincerest condolences to the entire Resnick family. Pearl was a true Eishet Chayil in every sense of the word. The Jewish community was richer from her profound generosity of spirit and deed. May the family and community be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and know of no further sorrow. Simon Wiesenthal Center Rabbi Marvin Hier, Dean & Founder Samuel Belzberg, Chairman, Board of Trustees Nelson Peltz, Co-Chairman, Board of Trustees Rabbi Meyer May, Executive Director Robert L. Novak, Director of Development Rhonda Barad, Eastern Director
        RESNICK-Pearl, December 13, 1999 after a brave and courageous fight from a debilatating illness. Beloved wife of the late Jack, loving mother of Marilyn & Stanley Katz, Burton & Judy Resnick, Ira & Paula Resnick and the late Susan Resnick Fisher. Adored grandmother of Bruce & Bonnie, Roni & Stuart, Neil & Amy, Scott, Jonathan & Susan, Peter, Joshua, Daniel, Jordana and Benjamin. Greatgrandmother of Brian, Stephanie, Nicole, Jaclyn and David. Cherished sister of Anna Sherman. Services 11:30 Tuesday, December 14, Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51 Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Albert Einstein College of Medicine would be appreciated.
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Real Estate Board of New York mourns the passing of Pearl Resnick, wife of the late Jack Resnick, beloved mother of our esteemed Chairperson Emeritus, Burton P. Resnick; and cherished grandmother of our members Scott, Peter and Jonathan, the third generation of a family that has shaped our city's skyline and graced the lives of countless New Yorkers with their enlightened, expansive philanthropy. Her legacy lives on through her family, and the values of generosity and compassion she instilled with such care and sincerity. We extend our deepest sympathy to the Resnick family. Bernard H. Mendik, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Solomon Schechter High School of New York is saddened by the passing of Pearl Resnick, a cherished friend and role model, passionately committed to Jewish education and the transmission of Jewish life values. Co-Chair of our Benefit Dinner and benefactor of our school, she exemplified Yiddishkeit and Menschlichkeit. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. May her memory be for a blessing and may her life inspire us to act in ways in which she would be most proud. Carol S. Kekst, Chairman, Board of Trustees Rabbi Judd Kruger Levingston, Principal
        RESNICK-Pearl. The President, Board of Trustees and entire Montefiore Medical Center community express profound sympathy to our esteemed trustee and friend Burton P. Resnick, on the death of his mother, Pearl. She will be long remembered as a warm woman deeply dedicated to her family and her communty, where she unstintingly gave of herself to others. We extend our most sincere condolences to her sons, Burton and Ira; her daughter, Marilyn Katz; her ten grandchildren, her five great grandchildren and entire family. Spencer Foreman, M.D., President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our dear friend Pearl Resnick, a leader in ADL's Women's Division and an activist for ADL's agenda. Pearl and her late husband Jack were generous benefactors to the League. In 1996, she received ADL's Haym Salomon Award for her philanthropy to Jewish causes. We extend our condolences to her children Burt, Ira and Marilyn Katz and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director Arnold Forster General Counsel
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Men's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a great lady, who shared our goal to improve the health of all people through medical research and education. We extend our profound sympathy to her loving sons, Burton P. Resnick, a founding member and past chairman of the Division, who currently serves on our Executive Board; and Ira Resnick, a Division member; to her son-in-law, Stanley M. Katz, a member of our Executive Board, and to the entire family. David H. Schwartz, Chairman Men's Division
        RESNICK-Pearl . We mourn the passing of Pearl Resnick, an extraordinary woman of valor who devoted her life to the needs of the Jewish people worldwide. A Silver Founder of the Hospital and a generous supporter of the National Women's Division, she was a righteous woman who personified the qualities of dignity and elegance. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. for Shaare Zedek Med. Ctr. in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, Pres Lee Weinbach, Pres., Nat'l Women's Div.
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and the Israel Museum, Jerusalem are saddened by the death of Pearl Resnick, a staunch member of our Palm Beach Committee. Our condolences to Burt and Judy and the entire Resnick family. Barbara Lane President, AFIM Carolyn Cohen Executive Director, AFIM James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Director, IM Nurit Shilo-Cohen Chief Curator The Ruth Youth Wing, IM
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Film Society of Lincoln Center note with profound sorrow, the death of a dear friend, generous supporter and the beloved mother of our Chairman. Pearl Resnick was a true lover of film and a major contributor to our successful annual Jewish Film Festival. She will be sorely missed by us all and we send our love and deepest sympathy to Ira, Paula and her entire family. Roy Furman, Chairman Emeritus Henry McGee, President Joanne Koch, Exec. V.P. Claudia Bonn, Dir. of Admin.
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York are saddened at the passing of Pearl Resnick; mother of our Vice President Burton P., grandmother of our Director Scott N. She leaves a legacy of love and devotion to her children, 10 grandchildren, 5 great grandchildren. She was a dedicated and extraordinarily generous philanthropist. She will be missed by many. Our sincerest condolences to the entire Resnick family. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        RESNICK-Pearl. The partners and staff of Margold Ersken Wang and Lieb, LLP mourn the loss of Pearl Resnick, a true Aishet Chayil. Pearl's wisdom, her sensitivity and her genuine philanthropy will be sorely missed by all who knew and admired her. As a helpmate to her late husband, Jack, and as the matriarch of her wonderful family, Pearl's life has set an example for her children and grandchildren to emulate. Our sincere condolences to her sons, Burt and Ira, and to her daughter, Marilyn, her grandchildren, and all the rest of her family.
        RESNICK-Pearl. Our dearest, beloved aunt, whom we considered our surrogate mother. Your love, kindness, generosity & spirit felt by many, especially your family will surely be missed but never forgotten as it will live in our hearts forever and ever. Our heartfelt love and condolences are extended to Marilyn & Stan, Burt and Judy, Ira & Paula and to all the grandchildren, great-grandchildren & other family members. May you find peace and contentment in the heaven you will surely ascend to. Sandy, Marvin & Family
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Board and Staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the passing of long-time patron Mrs. Jack (Pearl) Resnick, mother of Trustee Burton Resnick and mother-in-law to his wife Judy, both of whom continually reflect her abiding love of music and generosity of spirit. The Carnegie Hall family extends heartfelt sympathy to the entire Resnick family in this time of loss. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weill, Chairman Franz Xaver Ohnesorg, Executive and Artistic Director
        RESNICK-Pearl. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff wish to express our heartfelt condolences on the passing of our Benefactor, Pearl Resnick. We extend our deepest sympathies to Burt, husband of our esteemed Board member Judy, and the entire family. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman, Co-Chairmen Herman S. Sandler, President Albert Schussler, Pres. Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Director
        RESNICK-Pearl. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, the beloved matriarch of one of the first families of philanthropy. Our friendship with the Resnicks goes beyond a lawyer-client relationship, having its roots in Pearl's late husband Jack's partnership with Herbert Tenzer in the service of Yeshiva University. Our heartfelt condolences to Burt, Marilyn & Ira, their spouses, Pearl's grandchildren and the entire family. Tenzer Greenblatt LLP
        RESNICK-Pearl. Our hearts are saddened that Pearl, a loved and very special neighbor and friend, has passed away. Our world will never be the same without her. Our love and condolences to Marilyn and Stanley, Burt and Judy, Ira and Paula and all of her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Love the Rosen Family Rita, Philip, Phyllis, Wendy and Michael
        RESNICK-Pearl. Park East Synagogue mourns the death of Pearl Resnick, matriarch of her family. To her grandchildren, our dedicated members, Bonnie and Bruce Katz, great grandaughter Nicole, and children Burt and Judith, Ira and Paula, and Marilyn and Stanley Katz, our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        RESNICK-Pearl. The partners and associates of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield extend their heartfelt condolences to our friend and client, Burt Resnick, on the passing of his beloved mother, Pearl, who was indeed the ''First Lady of Charity''. Jack and Pearl's good works and their effect on so many people's lives will be sorely missed. Podell, Schwartz Schechter & Banfield
        RESNICK-Pearl. We extend our heartfelt condolences and profound sympathy to the Resnick family. Pearl's extraordinary personality and character left an indelible imprint upon all who came in contact with her. It is indeed unfotunate that our relationship was so short. We shall miss her. Loretta, David, Marlea and Jeffrey Stamler
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a great Jewish leader and philanthropist and we will all miss her. Our condolences to the Resnick family. Earle I. Mack, Chairman, CSL Board of Directors Paul R. Verkuil, CSL Dean
        RESNICK-Pearl. ''Grand'' Mother, we have been blessed to have had you in our lives sharing your beauty, wit and charm with us. Our memory of your laugh, your love and your remarkable presence will be everlasting. We will miss you dearly and cherish our times with you forever. Amy, Neil, Jaclyn and David
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Pearl Resnick and offers its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David L. Rudnick, Pres. Marshall L. Hess, Secretary
        RESNICK-Pearl. ADL's Women's Division mourns the loss of our beloved Board member, Pearl Resnick. Pearl was a guiding spirit and a voice of wisdom. She inspired and was a founding and continuing Co-Chair of ADL Women's Day in Washington. We loved her dearly and will miss her terribly. Babette Bandler, Chair
        RESNICK-Pearl. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Pearl who, together with her beloved husband Jack, graced us for over sixty years with her charm, wit and compassion. We extend our condolences to Burt and Judy, and the entire Resnick family. Elma and Milton Gilbert
        RESNICK-Pearl. The loss of our luminous Pearl leaves a void that can never be filled. Her special smile, her special warmnth, her special love of family and friends will always be remembered. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Resnick family. Estelle, Daniel & Abigail Reingold
        RESNICK-Pearl. A very special lady has passed away. To her dear children, Marilyn and Stanley Katz and her entire family, we send our deepest sympathy. Pearl will always be loved and remembered. Mitzi and Fred
        RESNICK-Pearl. Our heartfelt condolences reach out to Marilyn, Burt, Ira and the entire Resnick family on the loss of Pearl, an extraordinary, wonderful, loving, charitable and caring human being. Mel, Susan, Elizabeth, Peter, Gabrielle, Michael and Debbie
        RESNICK-Pearl. My dear friend, I will miss you terribly. Pearl was an inspiration to us all. She will remain forever in our hearts. My deepest condolences to Marilyn and Stanley, Burt and Judy, Ira and Paula and their families. Diane
        RESNICK-Pearl. Our deepest condolences on the loss of a true friend of Israel. Mel Atlas Edythe Grodnick Alan Silberstein American-Israel Environmental Council
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member, Pearl Resnick. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to the members of her family. Samuel G. Weinberg, President
        RESNICK-Pearl. We mourn the passing of a very special person. Pearl was caring and compassionate and a role model to so many. She will be missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Terry and Rickey Rackow
        RESNICK-Pearl. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Pearl. Her leadership qualities, her energies, generosity and good character combined with her exemplary life style leaves a wonderful legacy. The Mack Family.
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Board of Directors of The Ritz Tower wishes to express its condolence to Burton Resnick, our esteemed Board member, on the loss of his beloved mother, Pearl. Finbar Kenny, President
        RESNICK-Pearl. An exceptional lady-matriarch of an extraordinary family. Our condolences to Burt and all the Resnick family. Gruzen Samton, Architects
        RESNICK-Pearl. Loved, revered Mama Pearl to our daughter, Susie and Jonathan. Matriarch, Queen, Aishes Chayil. Ruth and William Levine
        RESNICK-Pearl. Dear ''Mrs. R.'' You will be forever missed. Love, Kathy and Jim McNeil
      