
        FENTON-Richard Lewis. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Richard Lewis Fenton, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who love him be comforted. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        FENTON-Richard L. United States Diplomat and Financier. Richard L. Fenton, a prominent New York real estate executive and former United States Foreign Service officer, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a short illness. He was 55 years old. After graduating with Highest Honors in Government from New York University in 1966, Mr. Fenton pursued graduate studies at the London School of Economics followed by a year at Cornell Law School. In 1968 he enrolled in the Foreign Service Institute of the United States Department of State where he completed requirements to become a Foreign Service Officer. In 1972, he became the youngest person in the history of the United States Foreign Service to receive the title of Consul. Over a 10 year Foreign Service career he held diplomatic posts in the Dominican Republic, Italy, Canada and Washington, D.C. During his Washington, D.C. posting, he founded Afco Properties, a real estate investment firm which acquired and renovated historic residential properties in Georgetown. Upon taking a leave of absence from the diplomatic service in the late 1970's, he joined his brother's commercial real estate firm, Peter R. Friedman, Ltd. He worked closely with his brother, Peter. Fluent in French, German, Italian and Spanish, Richard and partner, Harry Seherr-Thoss, developed a high profile group of international clientele. An avid sportsman, Mr. Fenton was a Lifemember of the Corviglia Ski Club in St. Moritz, Switzerland whre he was a regular competitive ski racer. He also excelled in windsurfing, mountain biking and mountain trekking. In May, as a member of the Explorers Club, Mr. Fenton completed an 18 day trek and flag expedition into the remote Upper Dolpo region of Nepal near the Tibetan border. Mr. Fenton is survived by his mother, Belle Friedman, his brother, Peter and two daughters, Alexis and Filippa. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, December 15, 10AM, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street, New York. Contributions in his memory to The Weizmann Institute of Science and The Explorer's Club.
        FENTON-Richard. The Board of Directors of 936 Fifth Avenue Corporation offers its condolences to the family of Richard Fenton. Mr. Fenton was a neighbor and valued member of the Board of Directors of 936 Fifth Avenue. His contribution through the years to the building's operations and success were numerous and will be missed. Board of Directors, 936 Fifth Avenue Corporation
      