
        CAGE-Betty. Peter Martins, Ballet Master in Chief, Howard Solomon, Chairman of the Board, Robert I. Lipp, President of the Board of Directors, and the entire New York City Ballet family mourn the passing of Betty Cage. General Manager of New York City Ballet at its inception, Betty spent nearly four decades with the Company. An extraordinary woman who worked side by side with Lincoln Kirstein and George Balanchine, Betty's contribution to New York City Ballet is unsurpassed. Through her unwavering commitment to our founders' vision and her steadfast dedication to the Company, Betty was of crucial importance to the formation and growth of New York City Ballet. During her remarkable career with New York City Ballet, Betty oversaw the early years at City Center, our move to the New York State Theater, as well as some of the most memorable chapters in our Company's history. Throughout it all Betty was a determined leader, and a treasured colleague, mentor and friend to the entire New York City Ballet family. We will miss her.
        CAGE-Betty. Ballet Society deeply mourns the death of Betty Cage. She began her association with George Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein as assistant manager of their Ballet Society in 1947. In the following year the New York City Ballet came into being, where she became the indispensable Executive Director until her retirement in 1984. Under her influential years of service & guiding vision, the Company achieved unparalleled artistic heights and stability. Betty's extraordinary wisdom, incomparable intelligence, and the blazing warmth of her nurturing integrity will always be cherished by her myriad friends. Ballet Society extends its sympathy to her husband, Edward Maisel. Nancy Norman Lassalle, Pres. Thomas Schoff, Sec. Treas.
        CAGE-Betty. Your intelligence, sensitivity, loyalty, love, grace and wit made you an integral part of the triumphants of Kirstein/Balanchine/Cage. Unknowingly the dance community of the world owes you a great debt. It was my good fortune to be educated by you and therefore my life became richer from the skills that you handed to me. Fate smiled on me that May day in 1953 when you hired me for my life's occupation. You will not be forgotten. Barbara Horgan
        CAGE-Betty. We deeply mourn the death of our dear teacher and friend. A master of T'ai Chi, and a truly exceptional woman whose grace, wisdom and generosity of spirit has enriched us all. Carrie, Karin, Kay, Senta, Nancy, Elsa, Katy, Francis, Christine, Alex, Dorothy, Donna and Kiki
        CAGE-Betty. The School of American Ballet joins New York City Ballet in mourning the death of Betty Cage, early and steadfast colleague of George Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein. We shall miss her friendship, her good humor, and her Wednesday morning Tai Chi class.
      