
        GORDON-Mel. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute bids farewell to a leader. A member of the Institute's Board of Trustees, Mr. Gordon joined the Board in 1965 and served as its President from 1969 through 1993. He was instrumental in helping to pilot White into international prominence by his canny cognizance of what was consequential, challenging and beneficial. Mel was deeply loyal to the Institute and to its purposes and he was passionate in his belief in people, in psychoanalysis, and in the ability of both to make the world a better place. Principled and generous, Mel also had the courage of his convictions, both adding to the Institute's assets and urging the use of its resources for the benefit of the many. He was idealistic though pragmatic, and his drive to serve and to get things done kept us focused and on target. In this regard, he could be a tantilizing provocateur but his unflagging optimism and doggedness sustained the respect and devotion of the Institute membership. Most important, Mel was warm, wise, and wonderful. His wit, humor, and his love of life and gift of laughter enveloped and inspired us. And no one here could fail to be moved by Mel's extraordinary devotion to his family, who must feel this loss acutely. We shall always miss him. We shall always remember him with love, with gratitude, and especially with joy. Charles C. Harrington, Ph.D., President, Board of Trustees Marylou Lionells, Ph.D., Director, White Institute
        GORDON-Mel. Wonderful man. Loyal friend. We will miss you. Rita and Ernie Bogen
        GORDON-Mel. Tuesday night tennis says ''Goodbye, good friend.''
        GORDON-Melvin. The Board of Directors and members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Melvin Gordon, whose many years of friendship, kindness and devotion to the club will always be remembered. Richard M. Feldman, President Steven M. Slaven, Secretary
        GORDON-Melvin. The Board and staff of Riverdale Neighborhood House mourn the loss of our good friend and benefactor, Mel Gordon, and express our heartfelt condolences to his wife Herta, their children and grandchildren.
      