
        JAFFIN-George M. Adored and beloved husband of Janet, loving father of Doris Greenberg, Lois Levine and David Jaffin. Caring father-in-law of Lee Greenberg and Rosemarie Jaffin. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan Greenberg, Walter Greenberg, Matthew Greenberg, Daniella Cava, Julie Levine, Carl Levine, Raphael Jaffin and Andreas Jaffin. Loving great-grandfather of Eliza Cava, Teddy Cava, Aron Cava, and Aron Noah Jaffin. His memory will be a blessing because he was a blessing to us and so many others. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, December 26, 12 Noon, at Kol Ami Synagogue, Soundview Avenue, White Plains, New York.
        JAFFIN-George M. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, record with profound sorrow the death of George M. Jaffin, a member of the Board of Governors for decades. An honorary member of the Board, George Jaffin was deeply committed and involved in the life of the College-Institute. He epitomized the highest ideals of Judaism as reflected in his devotion to his faith and people. George's life will always serve as the model for commitment to the Jewish people throughout the world. His generosity and broad spirit of humanity enriched the lives of people everywhere. We shall not see his kind again. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Janet, his children and grandchildren, whose loss we share. May George's memory be for a blessing. May the family find comfort with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman President Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Dr. Norman J. Cohen, Provost Rabbi Aaron Panken, Dean New York School Dr. Paul M. Steinberg Special Assistant to the President Mr. Burton Lehman, Chair Board of Governors
        JAFFIN-George M. It was an honor and privilege to have known George Jaffin and Elliot Liskin treasured this relationship. George Jaffin, a man of compassion, dedication, wisdom, loyalty and integrity inspired us all. Our deepest sympathy to Janet and family. Joyce Liskin and Family
        JAFFIN-George M. ''Do good. Help others. Have fun.'' Words to live forever. Rest in peace, George. Lee and Jack Herman Family
      