
        BERELSON-Irving Passon. On December 5, 1999. Cherished friend and husband of 60 years of Thelma. Devoted father of Ellen and father-in-law of Larry. Brother of Elliot and his wife, Suzanne. Predeceased by his beloved son, Philip Passon. Retired Senior Partner, Parker, Chapin, Flattau and Klimpl. President Emeritus, League for the Hard of Hearing. Advisory Director, Metropolitan Opera. Attorney, philanthropist, keen and loyal supporter of many New York institutions and agencies. He will be sorely missed by a wide circle of friends and admirers who valued his counsel and support. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, December 7, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Contributions in his memory may be made to the League for the Hard of Hearing, 71 West 23rd St., NY, NY 10010.
        BERELSON-Irving. We mourn with profound sadness the death of Irving Berelson, a member of the Met's official family for more than a decade and an Advisory Director since 1993. We recall with deep affection Irving's devotion to the Metropolitan Opera, particularly his special pleasure in attending Met performances, patron activities and Board meetings, even during periods of failing health. A patron for 25 years, his generosity to our company through The Theodore H. Barth Foundation has set an important example for others, including his support of young people developing opera careers at the Met through the Lindemann Young Artist Development Program. Most of all Irving will be remembered for his many kindnesses to members of the Met family who were privileged to know him as a dear friend. We extend our condolences to his wife, Thelma, and his family. The Metropolitan Opera Association
        BERELSON-Irving P. The Board of Directors, staff and membership of the League for the Hard of Hearing mourn the death of our beloved President Emeritus. For five decades Mr. Berelson led the League through years of growth and service to over one million people with hearing loss. His generosity, keen intellect and compassion made the League what it is today. In Irving Berelson, a warm and caring heart was joined with wisdom and a passion to do good. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife, our dear friend, Thelma, to his daughter Ellen and son-inlaw Larry and to his family and friends. John M. Scopaz, President Board of Directors
        BERELSON-Irving P. The Board of Directors and Staff of The National Book Foundation mourn the passing of our devoted friend and steadfast supporter. Mr. Berelson believed in our young institution from its inception; inspired the creation of our New York City Settlement House Program and Summer Writing Camp and was a generous donor for a decade. We will miss his cultured intelligence, warmth and humor. Our condolences to his wife Thelma, his daughter Ellen and family. Deborah E. Wiley, Chairman of the Board Neil Baldwin, Executive Director
        BERELSON-Irving P. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Irving P. Berelson, a dedicated philanthropist. He offered hope to countless individuals through his compassionate support for substance abuse rehabilitation programs at The Educational Alliance, Inc., a beneficiary of UJA-Federation. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Thelma, his daughter, Ellen, and his son-in-law, Larry. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        BERELSON-Irving P. It is with profound sorrow that the partners, associates and staff of Parker Chapin Flattau & Klimpl, LLP, mourn the passing of their former senior partner, Irving Berelson. For many years he was a devoted member of our firm & contributed much to its development. He was a dear friend of many and he will be sorely missed. To his wife, Thelma and family we extend our hearfelt sympathy.
      