
        RESNICK-Pearl. Ohr Torah Stone Colleges and Graduate Programs record with deep sorrow the passing of Pearl Resnick, elegant, regal and wise, mother, grandmother and philanthropist par excellence. Pearl's inner goodness emanated and formed her outer charm and her manifold good works. Her commitment to her people and her faith encompassed New York, Palm Springs, Ramat Gan and Jerusalem. The building of Midreshet Lindenbaum in Jerusalem, where our Programs of Social Work are dedicated in memory of her beloved daughter, Susan, of blessed memory, will, upon its completion, proudly bear her Hebrew name, Peninah, literally a jeweled pearl. May her luster continue to shed light, love and understanding from her heavenly abode upon those of us on earth who will truly miss her beautiful and heartfelt presence. May Burt, Marilyn, Ira and the rest of the magnificent family that she and Jack created together, and of which she was so very proud, be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Shlomo Riskin, Chancellor Ohr Torah Stone Colleges and Graduate Programs
        RESNICK-Pearl. Our dearest, beloved aunt, whom we considered our surrogate mother. Your love, kindness, generosity & spirit felt by many, especially your family will surely be missed but never forgotten as it will live in our hearts forever and ever. Our heartfelt love and condolences are extended to Marilyn & Stan, Burt and Judy, Ira & Paula and to all the grandchildren, great-grandchildren & other family members. May you find peace and contentment in the heaven you will surely ascend to. Sandy, Marvin & Family
        RESNICK-Pearl. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, the matriarch of one of the first families of philanthropy. She will always be remembered as a warm woman, wife, mother and grandmother totally dedicated to her family and community, full of grace and dignity. Our heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathies to Burt and Judy and the entire Resnick family. Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP. Ira and Diane Millstein J. Philip and Malki Rosen
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Gesher Foundation mourns the passing of Pearl Resnick, beloved mother of our friends and supporters, Burton and Judy Resnick, Marilyn and Stanley Katz and Ira and Paula Resnick. The Board of Directors and staff, here and in Israel, offer our deepest condolences to the entire Resnick family. Philip Schatten, Chairman Lou Bravmann, Vice Chairman Dr. Daniel Tropper, President & Founder of Gesher Foundation
        RESNICK-Pearl The Handler Family mourns the passing of an intelligent, kind and gracious lady whose standards and philosphy of life were and are to be admired and emulated. We will miss her. Our sincere sympathy to Burt and Judy, Marilyn and Stanley, Ira and Paula and their families. Jerry, Lyn and Scott Handler
        RESNICK-Pearl. The Women's Campaign Board of The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of Pearl Resnick, a treasured friend of the Jewish community. To her loving family, we extend our deepest sympathy. Ruth R. Goddard, Hon. Chairman Stephanie Saft, Chairman
        RESNICK-Pearl. My sincerest condolences to Judy and Burt and the entire Resnick family. I hope you take comfort in your mother's life and your loving care of her. Elsa Daspin Haft
        RESNICK-Pearl. We feel privileged our lives were touched by you. We truly love you and yours. Our heartfelt sympathies to the Katz and Resnick families. Love, Helene and Mel
        RESNICK-Pearl. Always remembered with much affection and love. Celia, Phyllis, Jack, Richard and Iris Zipes.
      