
        BRUSSEL-Eleanor. 94, of Riverdale, NY on December 5. Beloved wife of the late George Brussel, Jr. Mother of Charles A. Reich, Peter and Lee Reich, Valerie and James Levy, Margery Manber, the late Laurie Brussel and the late George Brussel III. Grandmother of Daniel Reich and Mary Draper, Alice Reich and Arthur Spingarn, Jeffrey and Hanako Levy, Sam Levy and Sergio Sandoval, Brad Thayer and Evan Thayer. Greatgrandmother of Emma and Maia Draper-Reich and Joshua Levy. Former director of the Horace Mann School for Nursery Years. She was passionately devoted to constitutional liberties and never lost her convictions and ideals. Her devotion to children and her love of life touched all who knew her. Memorial service information to be announced at a later date. Gifts in her name may be made to The Center for Constitutional Rights, 666 Broadway, 7th Floor, New York, New York 10012.
        BRUSSEL-Eleanor. The Horace Mann community mourns the loss of our cherished former colleague, Eleanor Brussel. A distinguished educator for over seventy years, a true pioneer in the field of early childhood education, she served as the Director of the Harriet Johnson Nursery School (Bank Street College of Education) and then as Founder/Director of The New York School for Nursery Years, which opened in 1954. In 1968, she oversaw the merger of her beloved school with Horace Mann School. Commented Mrs. Brussel to a New York Times reporter at the time of her retirement, ''If children develop a sense of their own worth and are given the necessary tools, they will progress.'' Intellectual, forthright and caring, Eleanor Brussel was a respected leader and a valued advisor to both children and to adults. Generation of nursery years graduates fondly recall the annual spring trip to her Riverdale home for a trampoline ride, pizza and ice cream. A woman of great style, she leaves a legacy of lasting friendships and immense dedication. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her two sons, Peter and Charles Reich and the rest of her loving family. Michael D. Hess, HM '58 Chair, Board of Trustees Dr. Eileen Mullady Head of School
      