
        BENNETT-Bernard E. On December 12, 1999. Loving husband to Lois, devoted father to Michael and Stacey Bennett, Lisa and Michael Ades. Cherished brother of Gertrude Bernstein, Blanche and Edward Kaplan, the late George Bennett, and Lainie and Larry Charmatz. Adoring uncle of Danny and Doris Kaplan, Michael and Cindy Kaplan, and Jennifer and Brian Charmatz. Mr. Bennett was president and founder of Bennett Public Relations. He touched many lives with his warmth, selflessness and his unusual spirit. He will be sorely missed by all. Funeral services at Nassau North, Great Neck, NY, on December 13, 1999 at 12:30 PM.
        BENNETT-Bernie. A wonderful and loving husband and father passed away Sunday. Through his sense of humor, unique outlook on life and meaningful words of wisdom, Bernie touched the life of every person that knew him. He seized each opportunity to spend time with his friends and family and became a mentor and role model to many of us. Bernie also cherished and excelled in his business, Bennett Public Relations, and saw going to work like a trip to the candy store. Words cannot capture the meaning he had in our lives, the impact he made on us or the eternal love and thanks we have for him. Uncle Bernie, you will be in our minds and hearts every day. We love you and miss you. Lainie, Larry, Jen, Dave & Brian
        BENNETT-Bernie. The world has lost a remarkable and courageous human being in Bernie Bennett. You, our dear Lois, Lisa and Michael, Michael and Stacy, have lost a loving partner and father. His relationship with all of you was so very special and admired by everyone. We will deeply miss his wonderful friendship, exuberant personality, humor and loving nature. We consider ourselves so very fortunate to have known him. Steve, Elyse, Erica, Larry, Michelle and Adam
        BENNETT-Bernie. All of us at Beau Brummel have lost a great friend. We thank you, Bernie, for your tremendous contribution to our success. We will sorely miss your friendship, advice and counsel. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and love to Lois, Lisa and Michael, and Michael and Stacy. Steve and Avram
        BENNETT-Bernard. An exceptional man, with great family values and kindness for all. To know him was to love him. Our condolences to Lois, Michael and Lisa. Bernice and Sid Jacobson
        BENNETT-Bernard E. An incredible human being with a heart of gold. We are filled with sadness. We will miss you so. Our love to Lois, Michael and Lisa. Margie, Mark, and Erik Gershwind
      