
        TAPLEY-Donald F. The Health Sciences Division of Columbia University mourns the loss of Donald F. Tapley, Dean of the College of Physicians & Surgeons from 1973-1984 and, at the time of his death, Senior Deputy Vice President for the Health Sciences and Alumni Professor of Medicine. As a faculty member since 1956, Don not only could recall much of our school's history, he also was part of our history. His influence on the school and the entire ColumbiaPresbyterian complex is wide and deep. He generated considerable support for facilities, young researchers, and students. He was an honorary alumnus of P&S and as dean started a series of meetings with P&S alumni throughout the nation; annual giving from alumni doubled during that time. Among his important legacies is ''The Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons Complete Home Medical Guide'', first published in 1985. The third revised edition of the guide was published in 1995. Proceeds from sales fund scholarships at P&S. A memorial service will be held at 3PM Saturday, December 18, at Palisades Presbyterian Church on Washington Spring Road in Palisades, NY. A reception will follow. Donations may be made in his memory to The Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons Scholarship Fund or the P&S Endowment, c/o Alumni Office, BB2-250, 630 W. 168th Street, NY NY 10032. Our condolences go to his wife, Caroline, three daughters, and five grandchildren. Herbert Pardes, M.D. Vice President for Health Sciences Dean, Faculty of Medicine Columbia University
        TAPLEY-Donald F., M.D. The Association of the Alumni of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University records with deep sorrow the death of its devoted honorary alumnus on December 16, 1999. In the course of his career as a member of the Faculty of Medicine, Dr. Tapley focused his research activities on the metabolic effects of thyroid hormone, and more specifically, on the action of the thyroid hormone thyroxine on mitochondria, for which he received worldwide scientific recognition. He served as Dean of Columbia's Medical School from 1974-1984. In 1984 he was named P & S Alumni Professor and Senior Deputy Vice President for Health Scienes. Dr. Tapley conceived The P & S Journal and served as its Editor for many years. Under his guidance it developed into a major means of communication between the medical school and its alumni and friends. His innovative leadership, wise counsel and dedicated service to P & S were a continuing source of pride to his colleagues in the Alumni Association. We join in expressing sincere condolences to the family. Marianne Wolff, M.D., President P & S Alumni Association Anke L. Nolting, PhD, Associate Dean
        TAPLEY-Donald, Dr. The board and staff of Riverkeeper offer their profound condolences to the family of Dr. Donald Tapley, who faithfully served this organization as a director. Robert H. Boyle, President Fletcher Hodges, Exec. Director
      