
        SCHNEIDER-Florence Hemley. 85 years old; Ph.D Bryn Mawr College. Resident of Ashland, Oregon; formerly of Tucson, AZ, and Crestwood, NY. Departed peacefully in her sleep December 29, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Bill Schneider; loving sister of Eugene and the late Arnold and David; a devoted mother of Patty and Burton; and grandmother of their children. With her husband Bill, she was the founder and manager for many years of Treehaven School in Tucson, AZ; the Schneider Art Museum of Southern Oregon State University and the Ashland Community Educational Services Volunteer Organization for the Ashland Oregon School District. Also the Schneiders were major contributors to many charitable, religious, cultural and educational funds including a Scholarship Fund for the Graduate School of Social Work and Research at Bryn Mawr College; Rogue Valley Symphony; Oregon Shakespeare Festival; Rogue Valley Opera; Temple Emek Shalom; Special Facility for Ashland Community Hospital and endowments for Providence and Rogue Valley Memorial Hospitals; a general charitable fund with emphasis on the underprivileged in Jackson County, Oregon; and many others. During her life, Florence taught at the University of Arizona-Tucson, Santa Monica College, Rogue Valley Jewish Community Religious School, Southern Oregon State University, and conducted ''Perspectives For Women'', a monthly series of breakfasts for professional women at the Medford Chamber of Commerce. She started her working career as Director of Fact Finding of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs. The documentary film ''The Women of Summer'' was prompted by her doctoral research work at Bryn Mawr. All who knew Florence appreciated her intense interest in participating in the life of the communities she lived in, with a primary interest in helping the underprivileged. She was an energetic, dynamic, ethical, loving and sympathetic person who throughout her life devoted herself to many worthy causes. She will be sorely missed by those with similar interests but primarily by her extended family and her many, many friends throughout the country. In life she made a significant, beneficial difference, and now will live on in her good work. ''Still are thy pleasant voices, thy nightingales, awake. For Death he taketh all away, but them he cannot take''.
      