
        KAUFMAN-Rita. Ohr Torah Stone Colleges and Graduate Programs and especially Midreshet Lindenbaum, its faculty and student body, records with deep sorrow the passing of Rita Kaufman, a magnificent, majestic matriarch in Israel. She was a woman of rare honesty and integrity who knew exactly where she stood as well as where everyone else ought to stand. Her devotion to her late husband Benjamin, as well as to her family knew no bounds and her commitment to her tradition and her people was total and genuine. Her greatest legacy is her exemplary children, the late Judith, Belda, Carol and Jerry and their spouses-children and grandchildren-including her twenty-five great grandchildren to whom she bequeathed her commitment and forthrightness. Now that she is joined with her husband in their eternal reward, I am certain that, despite the midrash, she will take her rightful place not at his footstool, but as his complete partner. The family they created togetherunto the fourth generation-continues to cast their splendor over all of Israel. With ever lasting love and admiration. Shlomo Riskin, Chancellor Ohr Torah Stone Colleges and Graduate Programs
        KAUFMAN-Rita. We extend heartfelt condolences to Rabbi Adrian Skydell on the passing of his beloved sister, Rita, a righteous woman who personified the qualities of elegance, grace and extraordinary dignity. As Golden Founders and generous supporters of the Medical Center, Rabbi Adrian and Dr. Ruth Skydell have devoted their lives to tzedakah and chesed and helped to fulfill the Hospital's mission to heal the sick and ease the pain of the afflicted. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. for Shaare Zedek Med. Ctr. in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, Pres.
        KAUFMAN-Rita. We mourn the passing of Rita Kaufman, an extraordinary woman of valor who treasured her family and friends and was always there to lend a helping hand. We extend sincerest condolences to her sister, Hilda Riback, a devoted and generous supporter of our National Women's Division. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. for Shaare Zedek Med. Ctr. in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Lee Weinbach, Pres., Nat'l Women's Div.
      