
        FISHER-Harold L. Lawyer, public official, civic and political leader. At the age of 89. At his home in Fort Lauderdale. He was born on December 10, 1910 to the late Jacob and Pauline Fisher. He graduated from Seward Park High School and from St. John's University College of Law Cum Laude. He was devoted to the former Betty Kahn, his late wife of 63 years. He was the proud father of H. Leonard Fisher, Jr., Assistant Professor at the University of San Francisco, married to Yvonne Derrick Fisher; Alice Fisher Rubin, Judge of the New York Civil Court, married to Lowell Rubin; Stephanie Cooper Harrison, a businesswoman in Ashville, N.C., married to Joseph Harrison; Andrew S. Fisher, Managing Partner of the law firm founded by his father, married to Barbara Fisher, Ph.d, and Kenneth K. Fisher, member of the New York City Council, married to Kirsten Fisher. He had eleven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. He was active in Democratic party politics for four decades and widely recognized as the leading expert on the State's election law. His career in government, likewise, spanned decades including service as council to the Speaker of the New York State Assembly and Chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. He had been Chairman of the American Public Transit Association, Chairman of the Convention Center Development Corporation, Chairman of the Dime Savings Bank of Williamsburg and a delegate to the 1967 New York State Constitutional Convention. He was most proud of his term as President of the Brooklyn Bar Association. He served in the New York State Bar Association House of Delegates and on the Board of many Brooklyn institutions. Funeral services Tuesday in Fort Lauderdale. Shiva at the home of Judge Rubin begnning on Wednesday. A memorial service will be held at 1 P.M., on January 7 at Congregation Mount Sinai, 250 Cadman Plaza West, Brooklyn. Contributions in lieu of flowers to the Transit Museum.
        FISHER-Harold L. The Officers, Trustees, and the Brooklyn Bar Association Community mourn the loss of Harold L. Fisher, President of the Brooklyn Bar Association from 1977-1978. Our heartfelt condolences go out to the entire Fisher family, particularly to past President Andrew S. Fisher, City Council Member Kenneth Fisher, and former Trustee The Honorable Alice Fisher Rubin. Steven D. Cohn, Esq., President Avery Eli Okin, Esq., CAE Executive Director
        FISHER-Harold. Trustees and staff of Brooklyn Public Library mourn the death of Harold Fisher, dear father of our devoted Trustree and Past President, the Honorable Alice Fisher Rubin. Our thoughts are with Alice and the Rubin and Fisher families. Martin Gomez, Executive Director Honorable Marsha L. Steinhardt, President Brookyn Public Library
      