
        SAFRA-Edmond J. The congregation of the Sephardic Synagogue of Fifth Avenue mourns the tragic passing of our esteemed member Edmond J. Safra. Words cannot sufficiently express the deep grief and shock that we feel. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his wife Lily and the entire family. Today there is a great void in the Jewish world caused by his untimely departure. His leadership and commitment, which have greatly benefitted countless Jewish educational, religious, and communal institutions throughout the world, will be profoundly missed. We, along with the entire Jewish world, have lost a great humanitarian and philanthropist, a giant in world Jewry, and a dear friend. The Executive Committee Ralph Anzaroot, Dr. Albert Harary, Maurice Silvera, Charles Cohen, Isaac Dabah, Ike Haber, Haron Shohet
        SAFRA-Edmond. The children and families of Chai Lifeline worldwide, the largest Jewish social services organization in the world helping children with cancer and other life-threatening illnesses, express their deepest sympathy to the family of Mr. Edmond Safra on his untimely demise. He was a true benefactor and supporter of our children and their families. May he be comforted amongst all the mourners of Zion. Rabbi Simcha Scholar-Executive Vice-President Mendel Brill-Chairman Joseph B. Sprung-President David Jemal-Member of the Board of Directors
        SAFRA-Edmond. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and the Israel Museum, Jerusalem are deeply saddened by the tragic death of longtime friend and supporter Edmond Safra. Our heartfelt condolences to Lily and the entire Safra family. Teddy Kollek President, IM Judy Steinhardt, Jack Nash Co-Chairman, AFIM Maureen Cogan Chariman, International Council James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Director, IM
        SAFRA-Edmond J. Congregation Beth Torah of Brooklyn New York, mourns the passing of a great humanitarian philanthropist in the international world of banking, Edmond J. Safra. His support of Torah institutions in Israel, America and throughout the world reflected his love and dedication for the Jewish heritage and the Sephardic Tradition. His memory will be forever enshrined in our hearts. May his soul be bound up in the bond of eternal life. Rabbi Dr. S. Zvulun Lieberman Rabbi Dr. Elie Abadie Mr. Hymie Anteby, President
        SAFRA-Edmond. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the tragic loss of Edmond Safra, a generous benefactor and friend. Safra Square will be a lasting tribute to his generosity and will enable his name to live on in Jerusalem. To his wife Lily, his brothers, Joseph and Moise, and the entire Safra family, we offer our sincerest condolences. Teddy Kollek, International Council Chair Ruth Cheshin, International Pres. William Ackman, Natl. Chairman
        SAFRA-Edmond. Harvard Hillel deeply mourns the tragic death of Edmond Safra. Our most heartfelt condolences to the entire Safra family, who have been catalysts for the transformation of Jewish life at Harvard. May the Safra family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Bernie Steinberg, Exec. Dir. Prof. Jerry Green, Pres. Dr. Roy Feldman, Chairman
      