
        KAUNITZ-Dr. Paul Ehrlich. Of Westport, Connecticut died in Jacksonville, Florida on December 12, of complications following upon a stroke. For more than forty years, Dr. Kaunitz was a professor of clinical psychiatry at the Yale University College of Medicine where he was an esteemed mentor to generations of residents. At Yale, he also was a founder of Department of Psychiatry Consulting Service. Born in New York City on October 6, 1914, Dr. Kaunitz was a graduate of Columbia University, the New York University Medical School and the Columbia Psychiatric Institute. He was a fellow of the American Psychiatric Association and an examiner for the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology. A practicing psychiatrist for fifty years in New York City and Westport, Connecticut Dr. Kaunitz also was a former president of the Connecticut Psychiatric Society. During World War II, Dr. Kaunitz served as a Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army and was awarded the Bronze Star by General Omar Bradley for ''meritorious service'' in planning and executing the medical evacuation system for the D-Day invasion. Dr. Kaunitz was the beloved husband, for 52 years, of Dr. Rita Davidson Kaunitz; brother of Elizabeth Kaunitz Wallman, and her husband Dr. Lester Wallman of Burlington, Vermont; father of Victoria Kaunitz Klein of Pelham, New York, and her husband, Joseph; Dr. Jonathan Davidson Kaunitz of Santa Monica, California and his wife Christine Lee; Dr. Andrew Moss Kaunitz of Jacksonville, Florida, and his wife Karen Koppel, Esq., beloved grandfather of Sophia and Theodore Kaunitz-Klein, Justin and Genevieve Kaunitz, Kate and David Kaunitz. In 1998, Dr. and Mrs. Kaunitz retired and moved to Jacksonville, Florida. Contributions in his memory can be made to the Alumni Office, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons; Attention: Anke Nolting, 630 W. 168th St, NY, NY 10032-3795; or to River Garden's Senior Care Center, Development Office, 11401 Old St. Augustine Road, Jacksonville, Florida 32258. A memorial service will be held 10AM Thursday, December 16, 1999 at River Garden Hebrew Home, Jacksonville, Florida with Rabbi Michael Matuson officiating. A memorial service will be held in New York in January. Forinformation Hardage - Giddens Mandarin Funeral Home, 11801 San Jose Boulevard, Jacksonville, Florida 32223.
      