
        SAFRA-Edmond. The Alliance Israelite Universelle, the American Friends of the Alliance and the students of the Alliance school network mourn the passing of our devoted alumnus, cherished friend, distinguished community leader and longtime benefactor. May his memory live on through those who were touched by him. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Lily, and his entire family. Alliance Israelite Universelle Prof. Ady Steg, President American Friends of the Alliance Israelite Universelle Albert Sibony, President Henriette Beilis, Hon. President Norman S. Benzaquen, Chairman Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb Honorary Chairman
        SAFRA-Edmond J. The Officers and Board of Trustees of the Magen David Yeshivah, Isaac Shalom Elementary School & Celia Esses High School mourn the tragic and untimely passing of a cherished and devoted friend and benefactor, Edmond Safra. Mr. Safra was an exceptional man, an outstanding philanthropist whose overwhelming generosity helped educate and preserve the heritage of our cherished Sephardic Community. We extend our deepest sympathy to his dear wife, family, friends and associates. Our prayers are with them at this most difficult time. Eddie J. Esses, Steven D. Shamah, Co-Presidents
        SAFRA-Edmond. American Sephardi Federation mourns the grievous loss to the Jewish world. His hand has left an indelible impression in synagogues around the world. Among his many philanthropic efforts, the International Sephardic Education Foundation stands out as a crowning achievement in encouraging higher education for the talented poor in Israel. Edmond was a true Sephardi who believed in tolerance and moderation. Leon Levy, President American Sephardi Federation
        SAFRA-Edmond. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the untimely and tragic death of Edmond Safra, a generous supporter of ADL. His leadership in the Jewish community and his love and passion for Israel and the Jewish people will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Lily, and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        SAFRA-Edmond. The Jewish Theological Seminary family mourns the shocking death of international financeer and philanthropist Edmond Safra. A leading supporter of Jewish communities and institutions worldwide, his generosity extended also to JTS through his Republic National Bank. May his wife Lilly and his entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Chairman
        SAFRA-Edmond. Congregation Shaare Zion and the Executive Committee extend their deepest sympathy to the Safra family on their tragic loss. Edmond Safra was a very dear friend of the Sephardic community. He was a great philanthropist and through his generosity he has helped make our community what it is today. All of our prayers are with his wife Lily and his entire family. David S. Sutton, President
        SAFRA-Edmond. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors wish to express our heartfelt sympathy on the tragic passing of our Benefactor, Edmond Safra. We extend our deepest condolences to Lily and their entire family. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman, Co-Chairmen Herman S. Sandler, President Albert Schussler, Pres. Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Director
        SAFRA-Edmond J. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish Heritage-A Living Memorial to the Holocaust express profound sadness on the passing of Edmond J. Safra, a Museum Founder, Trustee and devoted and staunch supporter of the Museum. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his family Robert M. Morgenthau, Chairman Board of Trustees
      