
        MARKOWITZ-Max, M.D. 86 years. Max Markowitz was a man for all seasons. He was an elegant man with strong values and convictions. An individual of deep intensity and insight, he was always a man of responsibility with a strong sense of right and wrong. Always the professional, he helped so many to lead and seek better lives. He was a man of extraordinary intelligence and always liked to engage others in profound discussion. He was deeply concerned with the issues of the day and addressed life with a strong point of view. He loved music and appreciated beauty at the highest level. Material things were not important as were the principles of life. He graduated high school and college before his time and later graduated from the medical school of Lausanne, Switzerland in 1937. He served his country as a major in the armed forces during World War II. After his service he started a practice in internal medicine. He went on to specialize in the field of psychiatry and achieved the highest training as a psychoanalyst. He was the medical director of adult psychiatry with the Postgraduate Center of Mental Health in New York City. He trained other professionals, lectured, taught, and supervised others in the psychiatric profession in both private and group practice. His standards were of the highest level and he expected the best performance from the people he worked with. He conducted himself with dignity at all times and commanded the respect of others. A truly brilliant man who valued words and concepts, and he did The New York Times crossword puzzle every day with ease. Max Markowitz is survived by his wife of nine years, Anita Bleifeld Beckenstein, Ph.D., and stepson, Kevin L. Beckenstein and wife, Leigh. Max Markowitz was the husband of the late Sarah Kissen Markowitz, MSW for forty one years. He is also survived by his son, Philip Markowitz, M.D and wife, Abby, Miriam and Leah, granddaughters; and by his daughter, Enid Markowitz Garber, husband, David L. Garber, Sumner and Jessica, grandson and granddaughter. Max Markowitz was brother to Lillian Edelman, Claire Greene, and the late Eleanor Rubinstein. He leaves a void never to be filled or forgotten. With deepest love, my mentor, my sweet Max, I was proud to be your wife, Anita B. Markowitz, Ph.D. A memorial service will be held in New York at a later date. Donations may be made to the Max Markowitz Scholarship Fund. For further information contact Riverside-Gordon Memorial Chapels, 6701 West Commercial Blvd., Tamarac, FL 33319; (954) 523-5801.
      