
        ALEXANDER-Virginia T. (Nina). The officers, leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the untimely and tragic loss of Nina Alexander, a dedicated and generous supporter who embraced the values of her distinguished philanthropic family. She was a devoted wife and mother, a successful businesswoman, and a strong advocate on issues relating to children's health and education. Through the years, Nina was active in many UJA-Federation organizational and agency activities: she served as a member of the executive committee for the Leadership Development Division and as a board member of the 92nd Street Y's Children's Resource Center. She was a Wexner Scholar through the Wexner Heritage Foundation, and a past member of the National Women's Cabinet of UJA-Federation. Despite her long illness, Nina, along with her husband, Richard, remained active in the Mount Sinai Children's Center. She is survived by her husband, Richard; her children, David and Lauren; her sister, Pat Hall; and her parents, Peggy and Alan Tishman. Mrs. Tishman is one of the Jewish community's most extraordinary and dynamic leaders. Among her many accomplishments, she served with distinction as the first president of the merged UJA-Federation, and is a current member of the Board of Directors. Mr. Tishman is a board member of two UJA-Federation beneficiaries, the Jewish Child Care Association and of Mount Sinai Hospital. To the entire family, we express our deepest sympathy and out shared sense of loss during this very difficult time. Judith Stern Peck, Chair of the Board James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        ALEXANDER-Virginia T. Age 45. On Tuesday, December 7, 1999. Beloved wife of Richard. Cherished mother of David and Lauren. Dearest daughter of Peggy & Alan Tishman. Devoted sister of Pat Hall. Sister-in-law of Wendy and Bob Meister and Gail and Ira Mason. Daughter-in-law of Selma Alexander. Beloved aunt to nieces and nephews, Adam and Laurie Bramwell, Margaret and David Doyle, Cori & Seth Berger, Jonathan Mason, Todd and Keith Meister. Her memory will light the lives of her family and her many friends whom she loved so dearly. Services: Thursday, December 9th, 11AM, Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. (at 65 St). The family will be sitting shiva at 1095 Park Avenue on Thursday, December 9th, 7PM9PM, Friday, December 10th, 10AM-12Noon. Saturday, December 11th, 7PM-9PM and Sunday, December 12th, 1 PM-7 PM.
        ALEXANDER - Virginia (Nina). The Dalton School Community, the Board of Trustees, P.T.A. and Alumni Council mourn the loss of parent, trustee, alumna and dear friend, Nina Tishman Alexander (Class of '72). Nina was a vital member of our community whose love of children and education and whose passion for Dalton were hallmarks of her tenure as a trustee from 1993-1999 and, most recently, as an honorary trustee. She was a model of courage. Her wisdom, enthusiasm and spirited laughter touched the lives of all who knew her. We will miss her greatly. Our love and condolences to her husband, Dick, her children, David (Class of '00) and Lauren (Class of '01) and to the Tishman and Alexander families.
        ALEXANDER-Virginia T. (Nina). We mourn the untimely passing of our good friend, Virginia T. Alexander (Nina), daughter of our Chairman, Alan V. Tishman. The strength of her character was an inspiration, and she left a lasting impression on all of us. Her presence in our lives will be sorely missed. We wish to extend our sincerest condolences to Alan and Peggy, to Nina's husband, Dick, and to the entire Alexander and Tishman families. Tishman Management & Leasing Corp. Tishman-Heskin Partners
        ALEXANDER-Virginia T. (Nina). We have suffered a significant loss. Nina was a strong and vibrant individual who always enjoyed a good laugh. She battled a ferocious fight against cancer, but alas was not the victor. However, she only lost the battle: she won several wars. She showed us all how to live a fulfilled life and how to die with enormous dignity. She was a wonderful wife, mother and friend who accomplished extraordinary amounts in a too short life. Our lives are diminished by her passing. Merryl, Jim, Jessie, Ben and Sam
        ALEXANDER-Nina. Your presence in our lives and the life of our community enriched us all with your generosity, wisdom, courage, laughter and love. You left behind an exemplary model of how to live and how to die. Your departure leaves a void that can never be filled. We will always love you. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and all of our love to Dick, David and Lauren. Patti, Alan, Adam and Josh Abramson
        ALEXANDER - Virginia ''Nina''. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends its heartfelt condolences to our esteemed past President Peggy Tishman and Alan Tishman on the tragic and untimely passing of their beloved daughter. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gedale B. Horowitz, President Michael S. Miller, Executive VP
        ALEXANDER-Virginia. Congregation Emanu-El of the city of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Virginia Alexander. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        ALEXANDER-Virginia T. (Nina). The Board of Directors and share holders of 1095 Park Avenue extend our deepest sympathy to Richard, David and Loren and to Peggy and Alan Tishman, our valued board member, on the unimaginable and devasting loss of Nina, our cherished friend and respected neighbor. Francine S. Kittredge, President
        ALEXANDER - Virginia (Nina). The students and parents of The Dalton School eleventh and twelfth grades are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Nina Alexander. She was a devoted mother, and a loving friend to so many of us. We will remember her as a dynamic and courageous individual. Our heartfelt condolences to Dick, David, and Lauren.
        ALEXANDER-Nina. Our deepest sympathy to our Founding Board member, Peggy Tishman, husband Alan and the family of her beloved daughter, Nina. Jewish Women's Foundation of New York Arlene Wittels, Pres. Sandra Lief Garrett, Exec. Dir.
        ALEXANDER-Nina. In tribute to a special woman who was a caring and giving friend to many. Her vitality and generosity, which were an inspiration to us all, will be deeply missed. She leaves a legacy of lasting friendships and a loving family. S. Donald Sussman
        ALEXANDER-Virginia T. Beloved friend and business partner. Your exuberant personality, humor and insight will be missed. Your indomitable spirit and incredible courage will inspire us always. Lynn and Marty Halbfinger
        ALEXANDER-Nina. A beautiful woman of unusual spirits, warmth and intelligence is gone too soon. All our love to the entire family. Adrianne & Jerry Cohen & Family
        ALEXANDER-Nina (Virginia) T. Our life, mother and wife. David, Lauren and Dick
        ALEXANDER-Nina. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of our friend and longtime supporter of science, Nina Alexander. For nearly twenty years, Ms. Alexander helped the Weizmann Institute develop and carry out its mission of scientific research for the benefit of humanity. She was a founding chairman of the Weizmann League, which developed young leadership programs, and a current member of the American Committee's Board of Directors. We express our deepest sympathy to her husband Richard, mother Peggy Tishman, son David, daughter Lauren and to the entire Tishman and Alexander families. Robert H. Asher, Chairman American Committee Albert Willner, M.D. President Martin Kraar, Exec. V.P. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Haim Harari, President
      