
        SHIRK-Stanley E. The partners and employees of KPMG mourn the loss of their respected colleague who died in New York City on December 7, and offer their condolences to his family. A teacher and mentor, Stanley will always be remembered for his dedication and devotion to the firm and its clients. His legacy will continue. Born in Brooklyn, NY, in 1916, Stanley worked his way through St. John's University at night by doing accounting work for several firms and also by being a Western Union messenger during days. After graduating in 1939 with a bachelor's degree in business administration, Stanley was employed by Barrow Wade Guthrie and Co. (BWG), the oldest and most prestigious accounting firm in the U.S. at that time. During World War II, he handled recruiting duties for the U.S. Navy in San Antonio. After the war, he returned to BWG and became a partner in 1949 at the age of 33. In 1953, three years after BWG merged with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell, Stanley took over the helm of Peat Marwick's banking practice and innovated the specialized department, the precursor to today's Line of Business structure. Stanley created the first formalized mentorship program between partners and staff and introduced long-range planning and budgeting disciplines to the firm, now known as KPMG. In 1955, he played a vital role in getting approval of a major financial industry merger that would create Chase Manhattan Bank. After retiring from the firm in 1976, President Gerald Ford nominated Stanley to become Comptroller of the Currency, but Congressional hearings were never held about it. Stanley went on to be a consultant for the Association of Bank Holding Companies and The Bank Administration Institute. The Stanley E. Shirk Scholarship Fund was established in 1992 at St. John's University through funds raised by retired and active KPMG partners and matched by the KPMG Foundation. In 1994, St. John's University bestowed upon him an Honorary Doctorate of Commercial Science. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Stanley E. Shirk Scholarship Fund, St. John's University, 8000 Utopia Parkway, Jamaica, New York 11439. A memorial service will be held for Stanley on December 17, 11 A.M., at All Soul's Unitarian Church, 1157 Lexington Avenue (80th Street), New York City.
      