
        SAFRA-Edmond. It is with profound grief, and immeasureable sorrow that we mourn with the entire House of Isreal, individuals and communities, throughout the globe the sudden death of one of our noblest princes Edmond (Son of Jacob) Safra A''H. We can not be consoled. As an early, generous, and continuing supporter of Sephardic Bikur Holim he shared our vision and commitment towards helping those among us suffering and struggling with illness and poverty. His constant support encouraged and enabled us to grow and achieve our goals helping individuals and families in crisis and in need. As President and CEO of Republic National Bank he truly saw himself as a trustee of the Almighty, using his talents, resources, and good fortune to improve and refine the world. Through his generosity making it a kinder, compassionate, and more godly place. Through his actions he inspired and taught that we are measured not by what we have, but by what we give. He was a giver and contributor to life, a partner with G-d in the development of education, goodness, charity, and almost every worthy cause. His heart was as big as the world for his vision knew no boundries. Remaining true to the faith of his fathers, he lived in grace. As Abraham Abinu he returned to his maker with his days, full of good and charitable deeds. His name will be eternially blessed. Board of Directors Sephardic Bikur Holim
        SAFRA-Edmond J. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine are shocked and profoundly saddened on the tragic passing of a longtime friend and honorary alumnus, a world-renowned philanthropist who was a distinguished and visionary leader in Sephardic Jewish education as well as a deeply committed supporter of scientific and humanitarian causes throughout the world. A Benefactor with his wife, Lily, he played a prominent role in advancing the University's various Sephardic Studies programs and the vital work of AECOM. He established the Jacob E. Safra Institute of Sephardic Studies in honor of the family patriarch and, at AECOM, the Edmond J. Safra/Republic National Bank of New York Chair in Cardiovascular Medicine. We extend our hearfelt condolences to his wife, Lily, and her family; brothers, Joseph (and Vicky) and Moise (and Chella); sisters, Arlette (and Ernest) Friedler, Huguette (and Ralph) Michaan, and Gaby (and Eliott) Safra; and all members of the bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Min hashamayim tenuhamu! Dr. Norman Lamm, President YESHIVA UNIVERSITY David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers, AECOM Dr. Dominick P. Purpura Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean, AECOM
        SAFRA - Edmond. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the tragic death of Edmond Safra, founder of Republic National Bank. Mr. Safra received an Honorary Doctorate from The Hebrew University in June, 1998. He and members of his family are longtime supporters of The Hebrew University, in particular through funding for ISEF, the International Sephardic Education Foundation, which they helped to create together with Nina A. Weiner in 1976. ISEF, a Benefactor of The Hebrew University, helps gifted young Israelis from disadvantaged backrounds get the best education possible. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Lily, and the entire Safra family. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President Professor Menahem Ben-Sasson, Rector Alex Grass, Chairman of the Board of Governors Harvey M. Krueger, Barbara A. Mandel, Co-Chairs International Campaign for The Hebrew University American Friends of The Hebrew University Keith L. Sachs, President Fred S. Lafer, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        SAFRA-Edmond. The officers and staff of United Jewish Communities deeply mourn the untimely passing of Edmond Safra, extraordinarily generous philanthropist, lifelong leader of the worldwide Jewish community, and founder of Safra Republic Bank and Republic National Bank of New York. Mr. Safra lived his life dedicated to supporting humanitarian and Jewish organizations and was respected by his philanthropic peers and all who love the Jewish people as a leader among leaders. He established the Jacob E. Safra Institute of Sephardic Studies at Yeshiva and Harvard University and was a member of the International Advisory Committee at Harvard University. He will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Lily, and their entire family. May they be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Charles R. Bronfman UJC Chairman of the Board Joel D. Tauber, UJC Chairman of the Executive Committee Carole A. Solomon UJC Campaign Chairman Stephen D. Solender UJC President and CEO
        SAFRA-Edmond J. The entire ISEF family in Israel and around the world is shocked and deeply saddened by the tragic death of ISEF's Founder Edmond J. Safra. Since 1977, his vision, leadership and generosity have nurtured and sustained the work of the International Sephardic Education Foundation. Thanks to his devotion to the education of Israel's underprivileged, 10,000 deserving young people have gotten a university education, and tens of thousands of disadvantaged children have benefitted from ISEF's education programs. We send our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Lily Safra, and to all the Safra family. ISEF's mission to educate the disadvantaged will continue as a living memorial to Edmond Safra's life and vision. Sonny Gindi, Chairman of the Board, ISEF Nina A. Weiner, President Gershon Kekst, Chairman, Advisory Committee Prof. David Menashri, Chairman, Executive Committee
        SAFRA-Edmond J. Kronish Lieb Weiner & Hellman LLP mourns the tragic and untimely death of our dear friend and client Edmond J. Safra. For thirty years we had the honor and privilege of serving him, his family, Republic National Bank of New York and its affiliates. An extraordinarily brilliant and successful person in world commerce, we came to know him as a gentleman and a righteous and upright person. We extend our heartfelt condolences and affection to his wife, Lily; her children and grandchildren, whom he embraced as his own; his brothers, Joseph and Moise; his sisters, Arlette, Gaby and Huguette; and his nephews and nieces. We also extend a personal condolence to each and every member of the Republic family here and around the world whose lives he touched and who we know will miss him dearly.
        SAFRA-Edmond. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the tragic loss of Edmond Safra, an extraordinary philanthropist and dear friend of the Jewish community. He was widely recognized for his exceptionally generous support of national and international institutions that instill an enduring pride in Jewish religious and cultural traditions, particularly the Sephardic Community Center in Brooklyn, a beneficiary of UJA-Federation. We extend our sincerest coldolences to his beloved wife, Lily, and her children, Adriana and Eduardo; his brothers, Moise and Joseph; his sisters, Arlette, Gaby, and Huguette; and the entire Safra family. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        SAFRA-Edmond. The Alliance Israelite Universelle, the American Friends of the Alliance and the students of the Alliance school network mourn the passing of our devoted alumnus, cherished friend, distinguished community leader and longtime benefactor. May his memory live on through those who were touched by him. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Lily, and his entire family. Alliance Israelite Universelle Prof. Ady Steg, President American Friends of the Alliance Israelite Universelle Albert Sibony, President Henriette Beilis, Hon. President Norman S. Benzaquen, Chairman Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb Honorary Chairman
        SAFRA-Edmond. American Sephardi Federation mourns the grievous loss to the Jewish world. His hand has left an indelible impression in synagogues around the world. Among his many philanthropic efforts, the International Sephardic Education Foundation stands out as a crowning achievement in encouraging higher education for the talented poor in Israel. Edmond was a true Sephardi who believed in tolerance and moderation. Leon Levy, President American Sephardi Federation
        SAFRA-Edmond. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the untimely and tragic death of Edmond Safra, a generous supporter of ADL. His leadership in the Jewish community and his love and passion for Israel and the Jewish people will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Lily, and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        SAFRA-Edmond. We mourn the untimely passing of a dear friend and benefactor. To his wife, sisters, and brothers we extend our deepest, heartfelt sympathy. The International Federation of Parkinson's Disease Societies Melvin D. Yahr, M.D., President
      