
        ALEXANDER-Virginia T.. Age 45. On Tuesday, December 7, 1999. Beloved wife of Richard. Cherished mother of David and Lauren. Dearest daughter of Peggy & Alan Tishman. Devoted sister of Pat Hall. Sister-in-law of Wendy and Bob Meister and Gail and Ira Mason. Daughter-in-law of Selma Alexander. Beloved aunt to nieces and nephews, Adam and Laurie Bramwell, Margaret and David Doyle, Cori & Seth Berger, Jonathan Mason, Todd and Keith Meister. Her memory will light the lives of her family and her many friends whom she loved so dearly. Services: Thursday, December 9th, 11AM, Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. (at 65 St). The family will be sitting shiva at 1095 Park Avenue on Thursday, December 9th, 7PM9PM, Friday, December 10th, 10AM-12Noon. Saturday, December 11th, 7PM-9PM and Sunday, December 12th, 1 PM-7 PM. Contributions may be made to the Nina Alexander Scholarship Fund at Dalton School.
        ALEXANDER-Virginia T. Nina taught us how to live life to its fullest even in the darkest of hours. Her courage and strength are an inspiration. We will miss all the ways she lit up our lives. Our love to her parents, Peggy and Alan Tishman, and her sister, Pat Hall. Dick, you were the most devoted husband and are a role model for every man. David and Lauren, you made your mother so proud. We will always be there for you. Gail, Ira and Jonathan Mason Cori, Seth and Ryan Berger Selma Alexa
        ALEXANDER-Virginia (Nina). In memory of our beloved sister-inlaw, Nina Alexander. Her courage, beauty, brilliance and spirit will truly be missed. She lived her life with character, kindness and generosity. She was a loving wife, mother and a talented business professional. She will be deeply missed by not only our family but all that knew her. Robert and Wendy Meister
        ALEXANDER - Virginia (Nina). Nina was more than a friend, a mother and a wife. She was an energy center, vital, warm, full, giving, everloving, joyful, enthusiastic; a powerful personality who left a lasting impression on everyone she met. Nina will be greatly missed and always loved, because she was unique and is irreplaceable. Doreen and Peter Rogers
        ALEXANDER-Virginia (Nina). In memory of our aunt, Nina Alexander, a woman whose courage was matched only by her kindness and good humor. She will be deeply missed by not only her family but by all of her friends. Todd and Keith Meister
        ALEXANDER-Virginia (Nina). To our dear, dear friend, Nina. We will love you and miss you always. You will forever be an inspiration to us. Shelley, Jay, Jared, Ariel, and Spencer LeBoff
      