
        de KRUYF-Johannes. A legendary expert on Netherlands philately, passed away at his home in Bergenfield, NJ on Wednesday, October 6, 1999 at the age of 92. Johannes, ''Jo'' to his friends, left Holland for Canada in 1928 and came to New York the following year. There he worked 40 years for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. His philatelic accomplishments are many. In 1934, together with Professor Schiller of Columbia University, C.W. Gibbs, and Sidney Lake, he founded the Netherlands & Colonies Philately group of New York. They met on a regular basis at the famed Collector's Club on 35th Street until 1976. Membership lists read like a virtual Who's Who of Dutch philately. For 42 years, Jo was the driving force behind the NCP, serving in various capacities from treasurer to president. He edited the NCP publication for almost its entire existence and it remains the definitive philatelic resource to this day. In May 1940, Schiller and de Kruyf co-authored and published, with the help of A.M. Benders and P.C. Korteweg, the now famous Manual of Stamps of the Netherlands, Netherlands Indies, Curacao and Surinam. No more comprehensive catalogue has been issued to date. Its cover was orange to emphasize the solidarity with the House of Orange, the Dutch royal family in a time of war. Jo managed to assemble at least two dozen major collections and generously shared his knowledge in numerous articles and lectures at the Collector's Club. One of his areas of expertise was the detection of stamp forgeries of the Netherlands and Dutch East Indies, and for many years he served as consultant to the American Philatelic Society in this field. His contributions to Dutch philately were recognized when the Nederlanse Bond van Filatelisten Verenigingen awarded him its highest honor, the Costerus medal in 1964. Jo was also an accomplished painter of landscapes, where he reveals his keen sensitivity to the natural world. His special skill in capturing the essence of certain sites in Canada, Maine, the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, Scotland, Norway, and other locales gives his oils and watercolors a certain intimate immediacy appreciated by all who see them. Jo's large-scale paintings and miniatures have been exhibited in Maine, where he often vacationed with his wife Alma who predeceased him in 1994. A selection of these works were recently exhibited in the Bergenfield Public Library and the New Milford Library where some of the miniatures were on display in November. Jo credited his parents with starting him on his lifelong hobbies when he was sick as a child for two years with tuberculosis. He said that he got stamps from his father and paints from his mother to keep him from being bored while resting. Although Jo has no direct descendants, nor any known relatives left in the Netherlands, he will be remembered by those privileged to know him as a wise human being with a wry sense of humor, who enjoyed life. His many kindnesses will not be forgotten and he will be greatly missed, especially by Betsy, Janet and Jock Morrison, Jan and Clay Morrison, Karin de Vries, neighbors, and members of the Central Unitarian Church in Paramus, New Jersey and Kees Adema.
      