
        KAUFMAN-Rita Skydell. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a dear friend, a life member and respected leader of the YU Women's Organization who was devoted to advancing the ideals of our heritage and imparted this legacy in word and deed to her children: the late Judith, and her husband Baruch Hurwich, Gerald S. (and Carol) Kaufman, Belda (and Marcel) Lindenbaum, and Carol (and Melvin) Newman. Her values were those shared by her siblings: Hilda Riback (and late Rabbi Sidney Riback), A. Harry (and Rebecca) Skydell, Rabbi Adrian (and Dr. Ruth) Skydell, Irving (and Ceil) Skydell, and Anita (and Chaim) Chanowitz. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family, who have been dedicated supporters of YU. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Dinah Pinczower Chairman, National Board, YUWO
        KAUFMAN-Rita. The Directors and Staff of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York extend their condolences to Honorary Board Member Belda Lindenbaum and family on the passing of her mother, Rita Kaufman. The good works of Mrs. Kaufman's children and grandchildren attest to the positive values and commitment to the Jewish community she instilled in them. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Avrom I. Doft, President Philip Schatten, Chairman of the Board Chaim Lauer Executive Vice President
        KAUFMAN-Rita. The National Jewish Outreach Program (NJOP) mourns the passing of Rita Kaufman, beloved mother of our distinguished benefactors Belda (and Marcel) Lindenbaum, and Carol (and Mel) Newman, who have played a crucial role in NJOP's efforts to assure a Jewish future for American Jewry. Sincere condolences to the Hurwich, Kaufman, Lindenbaum and Newman families. Yehi Zichrah Baruch. Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchwald, Dir.
        KAUFMAN-Rita. We record with profound sorrow the passing of our friend and loyal supporter, Rita Kaufman of blessed memory. Hebrew Free Burial Association Gerald E. Feldhamer, President
      