
        JAFFIN-George M. Adored and beloved husband of Janet, loving father of Doris Greenberg, Lois Levine and David Jaffin. Caring father-in-law of Lee Greenberg and Rosemarie Jaffin. Cherished grandfather of Jonathan Greenberg, Walter Greenberg, Matthew Greenberg, Daniella Cava, Julie Levine, Carl Levine, Raphael Jaffin and Andreas Jaffin. Loving great-grandfather of Eliza Cava, Teddy Cava, Aron Cava, and Aron Noah Jaffin. His memory will be a blessing because he was a blessing to us and so many others. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, December 26, 12 Noon, at Kol Ami Synagogue, Soundview Avenue, White Plains, New York.
        JAFFIN-George M. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, record with profound sorrow the death of George M. Jaffin, a member of the Board of Governors for decades. An honorary member of the Board, George Jaffin was deeply committed and involved in the life of the College-Institute. He epitomized the highest ideals of Judaism as reflected in his devotion to his faith and people. George's life will always serve as the model for commitment to the Jewish people throughout the world. His generosity and broad spirit of humanity enriched the lives of people everywhere. We shall not see his kind again. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Janet, his children and grandchildren, whose loss we share. May George's memory be for a blessing. May the family find comfort with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman President Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Dr. Norman J. Cohen, Provost Rabbi Aaron Panken, Dean New York School Dr. Paul M. Steinberg Special Assistant to the President Mr. Burton Lehman, Chair Board of Governors
        JAFFIN-George M. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute and the Officers of the HJD Research & Development Foundation mourn the passing of George Jaffin, distinguished honorary Chairman of the Board of Trustees and R&D Foundation. Mr. Jaffin was a longstanding committed friend and benefactor of the hospital. With great foresight, together with his devoted wife Janet, he generously supported our major initiatives. He has left an indelible mark on the hospital through his encouragement in helping us achieve our goals. We mourn his passing as we celebrate his exemplary life and extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Janet, his children and to the entire family. William A. Perlmuth Chairman of the Board John N. Kastanis, FACHE President and Chief Executive Officer Victor H. Frankel, M.D. President Emeritus Joseph D. Zuckerman, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief
        JAFFIN-George M. The Partners and Employees of Jaffin Conrad & Finkelstein extend their deepest sympathies to the family of George M. Jaffin, the Founder of and long-time Counsel to our firm. His devotion, wisdom and compassion were an inspiration to all who worked with and for him. He will be sorely missed.
        JAFFIN-George M. The extended Gershen family notes with sorrow the passing of George Jaffin. The world will miss a visionary, a patron of the arts and education and we have lost a dear friend. Mimi Gershen
        JAFFIN-George M. We will miss George M. Jaffin, a wonderful partner, friend and mentor who left our world a better place by his being here. Milton & Shirley Cooper & family
        JAFFIN-George M. To Janet, children and families. George, my partner and friend for over 50 years-it's hard to have lost you. Edward Kimmel and Family
      