
        STONE-Irving. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of its esteemed Vice President, Chai founder and cherished friend, whose valued relationship with the school and its founders spanned over three decades. Mr. Stone's commitment to Jewish continuity was best expressed with his simple yet profound imperative: ''We can't break the chain that goes back 3,800 years.'' Thanks to Irving Stone's vision, guidance and magnanimous support, the chain has been strengthened, enabling the timeless values of our sacred heritage to reach even those who before had been unreachable. Irving Stone's firm belief in the lofty principle of Jewish unity was echoed by former Israeli President Chaim Herzog when he visited the school so generously supported by the illustrious Saperstein-StoneWeiss families: ''At Boys Town Jerusalem I have found a source of hope for unity and love between the different parts of the Jewish People.'' Irving Stone's legacy and memory will endure as a lasting blessing and inspiration. May God comfort and console the entire family among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Josh S. Weston, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Exec. V.P.
        STONE-Irving I. Hebrew Academy of Cleveland, its administration, board of directors, staff, students and 5,000 alumni worldwide mourn the passing of ''Mr. Hebrew Academy,'' Irving I. Stone. His commitment to the Academy, Jewish education and continuity are legendary. His legacy continues at the academy and in the thousands of graduates whose lives he touched. Heartfelt condolences to his wife Helen, children Neil, Judy and Morry Weiss, Hencha and Rabbi Hirsch Gansbourg, and Myrna and Dr. Harold Tatar. Rabbi N. W. Dessler, Dean Ivan A. Soclof, President Rabbi Simcha Dessler, Ed. Dir. Rabbi Eli Dessler, Fin. Dir.
        STONE-Irving. Pious, caring, and idealistic, a visionary architect of Orthodox Jewry whose leadership, courage, generosity and foresight fueled the growth and acceptance of a myriad of institutions and causes. As Honorary Chairman of our Board, he played the leadership role in the worldwide expansion of NCSY. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Helen, his children Neil Stone, Judy and Morry Weiss, Myrna and Dr. Harold Tatar, Hensha and Rabbi Hirsch Gansbourg. May the Almighty comfort his family among the mourners for Zion and Jerusalem. Mandell I. Ganchrow, M.D., Pres. Rabbi Raphael B. Butler, Exec VP Rabbi Pinchas Stolper, Sr. Exec.
        STONE-Irving. AMIT is saddened by the passing of a truly great Jewish communal leader and patron of our AMIT children in Israel. Irving Stone leaves a legacy of Torah in America, in Israel, and in the hearts of all who knew him. Heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Helen Stone, and his devoted children, Judy (and Morry) Weiss, Hensha (and Rabbi Hirsch) Gansbourg, Neil Stone, and Myrna (and Dr. Harold) Tatar. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Sondra Sokal, President Marvin Leff, Executive Director
        STONE-Irving. The Simon Wiesenthal Center extends its sincerest condolences to the Stone and Weiss families on the death of patriarch Irving Stone, a founding trustee of the Center. May the family and community be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and know of no further sorrow. Simon Wiesenthal Center Samuel Belzberg, Chairman Nelson Peltz, Co-Chairman Board of Trustees Rabbi Marvin Hier Dean & Founder
      