
        SARGENT-David Rutledge. Financial publisher and civic leader, died on January 22 of complications from Parkinson's disease. He was 79 years old. Mr. Sargent, former president of United Business Service of Boston, was a resident of Wellesley, MA from 1947 until he retired to his family farm in Norwich, VT, in 1992. An active public servant in his town and the greater Boston area, he served Wellesley for more that twenty years as town meeting member, member and chairman of the Wellesley School Committee and the Select Board, as well as Town Moderator. He was Chairman of Wellesley Red Feather in 1955, the forerunner of the United Fund, and also served on its greater Boston Board. In 1966, he was a cofounder of Metco, the Metropolitan Council for Educational Opportunity, which organized volunteer busing of Boston children to suburban schools. He was a gubernatorial appointee to several state committees on economic policy. During the same period, he served as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Peter Bent Brigham, now known as Brigham and Women's Hospital. From 1983-1993, he was a member of the Board of the Hitchcock Clinic and a trustee of Mary Hitchcock Memorial Hospital. Born December 21, 1920 in Orange, NJ, he entered Dartmouth College from Hastings on Hudson, NY's high school, graduating in 1942. He was an active alumnus and was class secretary from 1982-1988. After college, Mr. Sargent joined the military serving from 1942-45 as an R.A.F. pilot and U.S. Air Force flying instructor. He joined United Business Service in 1946, and became president in 1961. An author of two books on personal finances, he was also a nationally syndicated columnist in the 1980's. A man of tremendous wit and energy, his life was enriched by his wide variety of interests. Mr. Sargent was an accomplished tennis player and bicyclist. When he was 60 years old, he rode his bicycle across the state of Iowa in the annual Ragbrai bike ride, sponsored by the Des Moines Register. An avid birder and outdoorsman, he canoed many local rivers and could identify most birds by sight and sound. He had a restless intellect, which fueled his passion for books, learning, and verbal debate. He is survived by his wife of 57 years, Jane Oman; two daughters, Karen Sirkin of Wayland, MA; Anne Walker of Wellesley, MA; and four sons, Dwight Sargent of Norwich, VT; Carl Sargent of Boston, MA; David Sargent Jr. of Norwich, VT; and Thomas Sargent of Wellesley, MA; and ten grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Memorial donations may be made to: American Parkinson Disease Association, 1250 Hylan Blvd., Suite 4B, Staten Island, NY 10305, The Visiting Nurse Alliance of VT and N.H., 46 South Main Street, White River Junction, VT 05001, Norwich Conservation Trust Fund, Norwich Conservation Commission, PO Box 376, Norwich, VT 05055. Information: Rand-Wilson Funeral Home of Hanover, NH.
      