
        BACHMANN-Louis, Jr., 83, of Stamford, CT., and New York City died peacefully at home, January 26, 2000. Beloved father and father-in-law of Bonnie and Tom Strauss. Devoted grandfather of Tracey M. and Elizabeth B. Strauss and step-grandfather of Peter B. Strauss, fond cousin of Frederick M. and Richard M. Danziger. He graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy and attended M.I.T. He joined L. Bachmann & Co. in 1937, which had been founded by his father in 1898, and subsequently served as a Captain in the Marine Corps during World War II. In 1946, he became President of Bachmann Uxbridge Worsted Co., the successor company to L. Bachmann & Co., which completed an IPO in 1951. Through a succession of mergers involving Bachmann Uxbridge Worsted, he became a Vice President and a Director of Amerace Corporation. His philanthropic activities included the chairmanship of the Clothing and Woolens division of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies in 1948 and membership on Federation's Board in 1951. He was voted an honorary member of the Board of Trustees of the Lexington School for the Deaf in 1972. He served on the Board of Trustees of Elmira College from 1972 to 1985 and the following year received an honorary degree, Doctor of Laws. In 1993, he was elected an Honorary Director of the Dystonia Medical Research Foundation. He also served as Secretary and Member of the Board of Trustees of the Bachmann Strauss Dystonia & Parkinson Foundation from its inception in 1995. Service will be private. The family will receive at home on Friday, January 28th, Saturday, January 29th and Sunday, January 30th from 5:00 to 7:00 P.M. A memorial service is planned for February 11, 2000 at 4:00 P.M. in the Goldwurm Auditorium, Mount Sinai Medical Center, East Building, 1425 Madison Avenue, between 98th and 99th Streets. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Bachmann Strauss Dystonia & Parkinson Foundation, Mount Sinai Medical Center, One Gustave L. Levy Place, Box 1490, New York, New York 10029.
        BACHMANN-Louis, Jr. My fellow members of the Board of Trustees of the Bachmann Strauss Dystonia & Parkinson Foundation and I deeply mourn the passing of my father, one of our founding members. He inspired me to start fund raising eight years ago for the dystonia cause with the commencement of an annual golf tournament, since renamed The Hedi Kravis Ruger Memorial Tournament. He proudly served as the tournament's Honorary Chairman. He further provided me with the impetus to establish the Foundation at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in NYC in order to search for a cure and improve public awareness for dystonia and Parkinson's disease. He left a legacy of philanthropy and selfless concern for others. We will sorely miss his inspiration and leadership. Bonnie Strauss, daughter & President, Bachmann Strauss Dystonia & Parkinson Foundation
        BACHMANN - Louis Jr. The Trustees, Faculty, and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of Louis Bachmann, Jr., a generous long-time benefactor. Mr. Bachmann's philantropy to Mount Sinai included joining his daughter, Bonnie Strauss, and son-in-law Thomas W. Strauss, our esteemed Trustee, in the naming and endowment of the Bachmann-Strauss Professorship in Neurology for the study of dystonia. Along with his daughter, he also was instrumental in the establishment of The BachmannStrauss Dystonia and Parkinson Foundation which provides major support for the Movement Disorders Program at Mount Sinai. He will be remembered fondly with gratitude for his generosity and he will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his daughter and son-in-law, to his grandcchildren, and to the entire family. Helene L. Kaplan, Chair, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chair, Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Mount Sinai School of Medicine John W. Rowe, MD, Pres. Mount Sinai NYU Health Barry R. Freedman, President The Mount Sinai Hospital
        BACHMANN-Louis Jr. The Estelle and Daniel Maggin Department of Neurology of Mount Sinai School of Medicine is profoundly sadden by the passing of Louis Bachmann, Jr. who so generously contributed to our programs in dystonia, Parkinson's disease and other movement disorders. We are forever grateful for the part he played in the naming and endowment of the BachmannStrauss Professorship and his pivotal role in the establishment of the Bachmann-Strauss Dystonia and Parkinson Foundation whose support is so vital to Mount Sinai's Research, Treatment and Support Services in neurology. We extend our deepest sympathy to his daughter, Bonnie Strauss, son-inlaw Thomas W. Strauss our esteemed Trustee, to his grandchildren and to the entire family. C. Warren Olanow, MD, FRCP (C) Henry P. and Georgette Goldschmidt, Professor and Chairman
      