
        HAMMOND-Mildred, age 90, of Mattapoisett died suddenly on January 5 while in London, England on a theatre tour. Miss Hammond, the daughter of Mattapoisett native Joseph I. Hammond and Mary A. Hammond, was born and raised in New York City. As a youth she spent her summers in Mattapoisett. A graduate of both Hunter College and Columbia University, she was a career librarian. During the 1930's she worked first with Goldman Sachs and then Standard & Poors in New York. At the start of World War II she began a 20-year stint as a civilian librarian for the U.S. Army. Ever adventurous she accepted a position at a base in Alaska & later worked at bases in the New York area. Her last position was a librarian with the Federal Aviation Administration in New York. She retired to Mattapoisett in 1982. Miss Hammond was an active member of St. Anthony's Catholic Church in Mattapoisett, and the Mattapoisett Historical Society and served as a Trustee of the Mattapoisett Public Library. She traveled constantly throughout the world. She was one of the first women to visit Antarctica and in the 1970's and 80's, traveled to Costa Rica to fish. Right up to the end of her life she regularly visited museums, attended plays and did the New York Times crossword puzzle...in ink. A member of a family that lived in the Mattapoisett/ Rochester area for many generations, she was the last Hammond to live in Mattapoiset. Her grandfather, John S. Hammond was an architect and builder there. Her father's twin brother, Eugene, was noted for his pioneering 1903 San Francisco-to-New York trip in a 4-1/2hp Oldsmobile with Lester Whitman. Theirs was the third transcontinental automobile trip. She is survived by numerous cousins of 4 generations throughout the U.S., including John S. Hammond of Lincoln, MA, co-author of ''Smart Choices: A Practical Guide to Making Better Decisions''. Funeral services will be held at 10:00 AM on Sat., January 15 at St. Anthony's Catholic Church, Mattapoisett. A wake will take place on Friday, January 14, 2:00-4:00 PM, Sanders-Dwyer Funeral Home, 50 Country R. (Rte. 6), Mattapoisett. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be sent to the Mattapoisett Historical Society or the Mattapoisett Public Library.
      