
        BECKER-Sidney B. Died January 15, 2000, at age 89. Beloved husband of Dorothy G. Becker for 57 years. Devoted father of Daniel, William and David. Loving grandfather of Sarah, Samuel, Michael, Ruth, Benjamin, Rachel, Jordan, Anne, James and Leslie. He graduated from Columbia College with a BA degree and from the Teachers Institute of the Jewish Theological Seminary. He served in the US Armed Forces from 1941 to 1946, advancing from the rank of lieutenant to lieutenant colonel. He was the recipient of the Legion of Merit, the highest non-combatant award for exceptional service. He served in senior executive positions with Schenley Industries and Willcox & Gibbs. He was a member of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees of the Reconstructionist Rabbincal College, a member of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees of the PEF Israel Endowment Funds, and a Life Member of the Board of the Associated Y's of New York. In recognition of his dedication and support, the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College presented him with the honorary degree of ''Keter Shem Tov'' (Crown of the Good Name), which is bestowed upon persons of academic and communal distinction. He will be remembered as a man of brilliant intellect, unimpeachable integirty and boundless generosity. Funeral services Monday, January 17, 10:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' West 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. in lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the West End Synagogue, NYC, or the Reconstructionist Rabbinical Collge, Wyncote, PA. May his memory be for a blessing.
        BECKER-Sidney. The Reconstructionist Rabbinical College notes with great sorrow the passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Sidney Becker, longtime member of the College's Board of Governors and Executive Committee. A devoted follower of the ideas of Reconstructionist Judaism's founder, Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan, Sidney was a lifelong Reconstructionist passionately committed to advancing the intellectual endeavor and spiritual discipline he so aptly modeled in his own life. A lover of Hebrew, he gave of his substance together with Dorothy to provide the College's first endowed chair in Hebrew studies and scholarship funds to support its Israel study program; his generosity to the College knew no bounds. As a tireless champion of Reconstructionist Judaism in North America and of a healthy religious pluralism in Israel, he exemplified Judaism's finest values. We will miss our friend, colleague and elder statesman. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved wife Dorothy and his family. Donald L. Shapiro, Chairman Board of Governors David A. Teutsch, President Reconstructionist Rabbinical College
        BECKER-Sidney. The community of West End Synagogue deeply mourns the loss of this founding member and extends sympathy to his wife and our friend, Dorothy, their three sons and their families. An Hebraic scholar, Sidney loved and was deeply committed to the Jewish people, to Hebrew and most ardently to Reconstructionist Judaism. From his behind-thescenes stance emerged one of the strongest voices our community will ever know. It will resonate far into the future. West End Synagogue: A Reconstructionist Congregation Rabbi Avi Winokur Rabbi Yael Ridberg President Marcia S. Weller
      