
        SMIALY-Hena. Holocaust Survivor. Devoted wife of the late Szloma. Cherished mother of Sylvia and David Posner. Adored Baba of Rachel and Raphael. Services 12 noon Sun., Jan. 30th at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65 St. Contributions to United States Holocaust Museum, Wash., D.C.
        SMIALY-Hena. It is with deep and saddened hearts that the Rabbis, Cantor, Officers, Trustees, Administrators and members of Congregation Emanu-El record the passing of Hena Smialy, the beloved and never-to-be-forgotten mother of Sylvia, darling wife of our cherished and revered teacher, Rabbi David M. Posner. These sentiments of loving condolence embrace Mrs. Smialy's cherished grandchildren, Rachel and Raphael, and all the other members of the family. Her life began in the early decades of the twentieth century and her eyes were a personal witness to the horrors of the Holocaust years. Miraculously she survived and with her husband, Szloma, of blessed memory, she came to America to begin a new life and together they made it possible for those whom they cherished the most to make significant contributions to Jewish life and continuity. With the family, we honor her life and shall cherish her remembrance. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        SMIALY-Hena. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, Faculty, Administration, Staff and Students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Hena Smialy, beloved mother of Sylvia Posner, invaluable Administrative Executive and Secretary to the Board of Governors for nearly 30 years. A Holocaust Survivor, Mrs. Smialy bore witness to the vibrant Jewish life of prewar European Jewry. With her beloved husband, Szloma, of blessed memory, she participated in the rehabilitation of Jewish displaced persons during the post-liberation period, and transmitted a legacy of remembrance, values and hope to all who knew and loved her. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her beloved children, Sylvia and Rabbi David Posner, and her adoring grandchildren, Rachel and Raphael. May her memory be a blessing for us all. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman, Pres. Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Burton Lehman, Chairman, Board of Governors
        SMIALY-Hena. Together with Sylvia, David, Rachel and Raphael, we mourn the death of their cherished mother and Baba. With indomitable valor and strength, she helped sustain others during the Shoah and after the liberation. With her beloved Szloma, she perpetuated the memory of the Kedoshim, imparted the life-affirming values and heritage of European Jewry, and inspired us all with her infinite love for her family, friends and the Jewish people. Jeanie, Menachem and Jodi Rosensaft
      