
        ROSENBERG-Alfred A. Passed away January 20 at age 84, after a spirited 12-year fight against illness. Loving and devoted husband and partner of Judy R. Rosenberg. Confidant, mentor and pal to numerous nieces, nephews, grandnieces, grandnephews and cousins. Brother of Lillian Sherman, Joseph Rosenberg, and the late Sylvia Ginsberg, Simon and Louis Rosenberg. True friend to many, both within and outside his beloved practice of law, which was centered on creditors' rights and Federal Bankruptcy Court in Brooklyn. He inspired all with his intelligence, sensitivity and courage. As humanitarians and philanthropists, he and Judy have been lifelong supporters of medical research, the performing arts, and education, especially in the establishment of scholarship funds. Contributions may be made to Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University, Jack and Pearl Resnick Campus, Room B803, Center for Genetic and Translational Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx, NY 10461. Services on Sunday, January 23, 12:30PM, at The Riverside, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Family is at home Monday and Tuesday, 3-6 and 7-9PM.
        ROSENBERG-Alfred A. The entire Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University community mourns the passing of our dear friend and supporter since the earliest days of our medical school some 45 years ago. A distinguished attorney and an erudite and delightful participant in the life of our institution, he was the devoted husband of Judy, long-time member and former secretary of our Board of Overseers, honorary alumna of Yeshiva University, and the guiding spirit of our National Women's Division throughout its history. Together, Al and Judy were Benefactors of the medical school and sponsors of a Faculty Scholar in Diabetes Research. To our dear Judy, and to the family, all of us extend the most heartfelt of condolences. Dr. Norman Lamm, President, Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Albert Einstein College of Medicine Dominick P. Purpura, M.D., The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        ROSENBERG-Alfred A. The National Women's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply grieved at the passing of our beloved friend, the husband of our treasured leader and enduring pillar of strength, Judy R. Rosenberg. Alfred's warmth and caring support have been an irreplaceable gift to our organization through the years. As a couple, Al and Judy demonstrated singular kindness and boundless commitment for our cause. We are truly blessed to have been touched by their love and humanity. To the entire family, we send our most sincere sympathy. Our hearts are with you, Judy. Alice Kent, President National Women's Division Arlene Fischer, President New York Chapter Ellen Salsburg, President New Jersey Chapter Gail Marcus, President Westchester/Fairfield Chapter
        ROSENBERG-Alfred A. My Pal Al. We cherish the memory of your friendship, your smile, your good deeds, forever. Harriet, Sol, Sarene, Phillip, Amy and Corey
      