
        GOTTLIEB-Jules Arthur. Of Manhasset, NY and Boca Raton, FL died peacefully at home January 26, 2000. Beloved husband and best friend of Ann (Lowenstein), devoted father of Lawrence Gottlieb (Peggy Watson), Lisa (Michael) Senter, Lynne (Steven) Blumenstock, John Gottlieb (Janet Tenore), adoring grandfather of Andrew and Victoria Senter, Alexa and Hannah Blumenstock, Sophie Gottlieb and Sara Gottlieb. Founder and president of ABCO Refrigeration Supply Corp. Graduate of Lehigh University with a degree in Engineering, 1943. Lt. Commander of USN minesweeper in the South Pacific throughout W.W. II. Born on June 17, 1922, Mr. Gottlieb was, and always will be, a great inspiration. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Funeral service Friday, January 28, 12 noon at The Riverside Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. Memorial contributions may be made to the Ann and Jules Gottlieb Women's Comprehensive Health Center, Long Island Jewish Medical Center (call Mindy Reade of the North Shore LIJ Health System for more information).
        GOTTLIEB-Jules A. With great sadness the employees of ABCO Refrigeration Supply Corp. mourn the passing of Jules A. Gottlieb, Founder and President for more than fifty years. To everyone who knew him, he was, and always will be, a great inspiration. Mr. Gottlieb is irreplaceable to the members of his organization, his customers, and HVAC/R manufacturers throughout the country. Mr. Gottlieb believed each customer and every transaction had to be treated as ABCO's most important customer and most valuable sale. The employees of ABCO take pride in having learned Jules's creed, and seek to fulfill his commitment to excellence each and every day. George Moncher, Jon Gottlieb and Michael Senter and All of the Employees of ABCO Refrigeration Corp.
        GOTTLIEB-Jules. The Board and staff of the Samuel Field YM & YWHA mourn the passing of Jules Gottlieb, husband of Ann Gottlieb, devoted Vice President of our Board of Directors. For many years, Jules and Ann dedicated themselves to improving the quality of life for those in need. Jules will be remembered for his life of caring and generosity. His quiet dignity and warmth will be missed. Our thoughts and heartfelt sympathy are with Ann and family. William Frumkin, President Steven Goodman, Exec. V.P.
        GOTTLIEB-Jules Arthur. Of Manhasset, NY and Boca Raton, FL, died peacefully at home January 26, 2000. Beloved and trusted partner in ABCO Refrigeration Supply Corp. for more than fifty years, Mr. Gottlieb built the company into one of the leading air conditioning and refrigeration wholesale distribution organizations in the country. He is a best friend who could never be replaced and never will be forgotten. George and Ruth Moncher
        GOTTLIEB-Jules. Service Guild, the Auxiliary of LIJ, sadly extends condolences to Ann, a past President, and her family on the loss of her husband, Jules. Jules has been a dedicated force towards the advancement of women's health. Our thoughts are with you. Florence Hausner and Vivian Jaeger, Co-Presidents
        GOTTLIEB-Jules. The Board of Directors and membership of Glen Head Country Club announce with profound sorrow the untimely passing of Jules Gottlieb, husband of our esteemed member Ann and father of our esteemed member John. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. Martin Scheman, President
      