
        GOLDBERG-Ida (Jadzia). 101 years of age. Beloved wife of dearly departed Moses Goldberg. Mother of two sons, Zelig and Schmulek, who perished in Treblinka, mother of dearly departed Miriam (Goldberg) Klein, motherin-law of John Klein. Grandmother of Ruth and Fred Schwalbe. Great grandmother of Evan and Jason Schwalbe. She was one of the oldest Holocaust survivors in the world. She was a heroic, loving, unusually strong woman who was devoted to her family and friends. We will miss her very much. Funeral services at The Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, Friday, 10:45AM. Donations may be made in her memory to The Friends of the Israel Defense Forces.
        GOLDBERG-Ida. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Ida Goldberg, Holocaust survivor and matriach of her family, devoted mother to her late daughter, Miriam and son-in-law, John Klein, trustee of our congregation, adoring grandmother to Ruth & Fred Schwalbe and great grandmother to Evan and Jason. Deepest sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        GOLDBERG-Ida. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of a woman of valor, matriarch of her beloved family, Founders of our synagogue. Our heartfelt sympathy to her son-in-law, John Klein, grandchildren, Ruth and Fred Schwalbe, great grandchildren, Evan and Jason, and the entire family. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Pres. Seymour G. Siegel, Treasurer
        GOLDBERG-Ida. On behalf of the Soldiers of Israel and the Friends of the Israel Defense Forces we pay tribute to the loving memory of Ida Goldberg, a holocaust survivor and a pillar of our Jewish community. Our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences go out to John Klein. In lieu of flowers donations are to be made to the Friends of the Israel Defense Forces, 21 West 38th St., 5th floor, NY, NY 10018. 212-575-5030 ext 14.
        GOLDBERG-Ida. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear Ida who always held a special place in our family. A woman of valor and a real lady. Our heartfelt sympathy to John Klein, Ruth and Fred Schwalbe, Evan and Jason. Ida, we loved you and we will always miss you. Esther and Robert Born Rita and Fred Distenfeld Debbie and Richard Born
        GOLDBERG-Ida. Our deepest condolences to the family of Ida Goldberg. She will be missed by her family, our family, and so many people who were touched by her. Barbara and Harry Wittlin
      