
        KINAS-Helen Yiannari, Dr. A prominent radiologist and longtime member of the American Medical Associaiton died Thursday morning at her home in Old Brookville, NY, following a short illness. Dr. Kinas, 72, was the wife of Arthur N. Kinas. Dr. Kinas was born in Iraklion, Crete, on June 5, 1927, a daughter of Julia Katematzoglou Yiannari of Athens, Greece, and the late George Yiannari. A 1947 graduate of the University of Athens, she received her medical degree in 1952 from that university's medical school. In 1960, Dr. Kinas received her radiologist's license from New York Polyclinical Medical School in Manhattan. Following residencies at Kings County Hospital, Brooklyn; Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Manahttan; and Long Island Jewish Community Center, Dr. Kinas joined the staff of Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx in 1963. Dr. Kinas subsequently held staff positions at Queens Hospital Center in Jamaica, NY, and at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. Most recently she was a radiologist at Women's Imaging Center of Queens, Long Island Medical Group. Over the years, Dr. Kinas was an assistant professor of radiology at several local colleges, including Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Yeshiva University, Manhattan; Mount Sinai Hospital, Manhattan, and the School of Medicine at SUNY-Stony Brook. Dr. Kinas was a member of the New York State Medical Society; Queens College Medical Society; the New York State Chapter of the American College of Radiology, and the New York Roentgen Society. In addition to her mother and husband, Dr. Kinas is survived by her sister, Elizabeth Plakides, of Athens; her children Nickolas and Louiza Moussouris Kinas, of Bronxville, NY, and a granddaughter Eleni Elizabeth Kinas. Services will be held Wednesday, at 10 AM, at Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Church, 10 Mill Road, New Rochelle. Calling hours are Tuesday from 2-4 and 7-9, at Westchester Funeral Home, 190 Main Street, Eastchester, NY. Interment will be at Mount Hope Cemetery, Hastings-on-Hudson, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, PO Box E, 1275 York Ave, NYC 10021.
      