
        STONE-Irving I. Torah UmesorahNational Society for Hebrew Day Schools, deeply mourns the loss of Irving Stone ob''m, a great pioneer and prominent philanthropic lay leader of the Hebrew Day School movement for over half a century. When the majority of American Jewry considered day schools parochial and anti-American, Mr. Stone established one of the first day schools, the Hebrew Academy of Cleveland, a benchmark school and shining example of day school education par excellence. He thus paved the way for the phenomenal growth and success of today's North American Day School movement - 600 schools and 170,000 students strong - now recognized as a bulwark against assimilation. Irving Stone has left a profound and indelible impression upon Jewish history. When the great Rav Shraga F. Mendlowitz founded Torah Umesorah, working together with its eminent founding director, Dr. Joseph Kaminetzky, Mr. Stone became their partner and a founding pillar in the lay leadership of the National Day School movement. May his dear wife, children and extended family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Elya Svei, Chairman Rabbinical Board Rabbi Jacob Rajchenbach President Rabbi Joshua Fishman, Exec. VP
        STONE-Irving. The Board of Directors, faculty and the 2,000 students of Associated Beth Rivkah Schools-Lubavitch extends sincere condolences to our devoted friends and supporters, Hensha (and Rabbi Hirsch) Gansbourg, upon the passing of her father. His pride in his heritage and devotion to Jewish traditions were his greatest attributes as a husband, father and grandfather. May his entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Leima Minkowicz Executive Director Associated Beth Rivkah Schools 310 Crown St., Brooklyn, NY 11225
        STONE-Irving. Edah joins in mourning the loss of a visionary Jewish leader. His support of both formal and informal Jewish education across the world served as catalyst for other Jewish philanthropists. His loyalty and integrity in business and in personal life were legendary. He empowered his family to travel yet further on the path which he charted. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Dr. Michael Hammer, President Rabbi Saul J. Berman, Director
      