
        STONE-Irving I. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary express profound sorrow on the passing of a foremost world leader of the Torah community and patriarch of the Stone-SapirsteinWeiss family. He was a longtime member of RIETS' Board of Trustees and recipient of its highest accolade, the Eitz Chaim Award; beloved husband of Helen and the late Beatrice; and father of Judith (and Morry) Weiss, Hensha (and Rabbi Hirsch) Gansbourg, Neil Stone, and Myrna (and Dr. Harold) Tatar. He played a singular role in professionalizing the field of Jewish education within our University and throughout America and Israel. Honorary alumnus and YU Benefactor, he established major endowments through the Irving I. Stone Support Foundation: the Stone-Sapirstein Chair in Jewish Education, Irving I. Stone Distinguished Professorship in Jewish Education at our Azrieli Graduate School of Jewish Education and Administration, and the Irving I. Stone Beit Midrash Program for undergraduates and, at RIETS, the Irving I. Stone Rabbinic Internship Program, Stone-Sapirstein Scholarship Internship Program in Jewish Education, and Stone-Sapirstein Center for Jewish Education. His legacy continues through the efforts of daughter and son-in-law Judith and Morry Weiss-YU trustee and executive committee member-who are Benefactors through the Stone-Sapirstein-Weiss Family Foundation and of grandsons Gary Weiss, alumnus and member, Yeshiva College Board of Directors, and Zev Weiss, alumnus and member of the newly formed Azrieli Graduate School Board of Directors. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Helen Stone, children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Judah Feinerman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees
        STONE-Irving I. The more than 71,000 children in the schools and kingergartens of the Chinuch Atzmai-Torah Schools network in Israel mourn the passing of this giant of Torah philanthropy. Forty-seven years ago, he established the Irving and Beatrice Stone School, the first Bais Yaakov girls school in Rechovot, which today numbers close to 1,000 students. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Mrs. Helen Stone, and his children, Neil Stone, Judy and Morry Weiss, Myrna and Dr. Harold Tatar, Hensha and Rabbi Hirsch Gansbourg. May the Almighty comfort them among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Torah Schools for Israel Chinuch Atzmai Amos Bunim, Co-Chmn, Exec. Bd Rabbi Henach Cohen, Exec. Dir
      