
        FULLER-Robert Garfield. Of West Palm Beach, FL, aged 95, on December 31, 1999, following a brief illness. Devoted husband of the late Gwendolen Sherwood Ferrey, dear father of Robert Ferrey Fuller and the late Daphne Sherwood Fuller, beloved grandfather of Julie Fuller Thornton and Gordon McIntosh Fuller, greatgrandfather of Robert and Sarah McIntire and of Zachary, Andrew and Matthew Fuller. Born in Minneapolis, he was graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1923 and in 1925 from Harvard Business School, where he was a Baker Scholar. Following graduation he joined First National Bank of New York and remained with that bank and its successor, First National City Bank, until his retirement in 1966 as a Senior Vice President. He was associated from 1941 until 1968 with the Delaware, Lackawanna & Western RR Co. (later the Erie Lackawanna RR Co.) as a director, as a member and then chairman of its executive committee, and as chairman of the board. In 1968 and 1969, he was a director and chairman of the voting trustees of the former REA Express. At various times, he served on the executive committees of the boards of Seaboard Surety Co. and Metal & Thermit Corp. and as a director of American Sugar Co., Discount Corporation of NY and other companies. For many years a member of The Riverside Church (NY), he served it as president of its board of trustees and in other capacities, and had also served as a trustee and on the finance committee of the Ministers & Missionaries Benefit Board of the American Baptist Convention and as a director of the United Negro College Fund. A former resident of Scarsdale, NY, Lost Tree Village, FL and Greenwich, CT, he had been president of the Lost Tree Club, a 50-year member of the Scarsdale Golf Club and active in community affairs. At his death he was a member of The Everglades Club and The Beach Club (Palm Beach), the Lost Tree Club (North Palm Beach) and The Harvard Club of New York City. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Psi Upsilon, and had been awarded the Gold Medal of the University of Minnesota. Funeral services were held on January 4, 2000 at Royal Poinciana Chapel, Palm Beach, FL. A memorial service is planned for a later date in Greenwich, CT, as is private burial in Scarsdale, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in his name to First Presbyterian Church, 18 Lafayette Place, Greenwich, CT 06830.
      