
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton, MD. 79. On January 24, 2000 at his home in Washington, Conn. Loving husband of Rosanne Kerby Schaffner. Father of Roberta Schaffner of Dallas, Tex., Dr. John Schaffner of Rochester, Mn., Dr. Andrea Schaffner of Madison, Conn. and Marjorie Schaffner of Chicago, Il. Grandfather of five. Brother of Gerald Schaffner of San Diego, Calif. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Thursday 6-8PM. Memorial service on Friday 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell. Donations in memory of Dr. Schaffner may be made to American Liver Foundation, The Greater New York Chapter, 80 Wall Street, Suite 1015, New York, New York 10005.
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton Dr. The Department of Medicine and Division of Liver Diseases of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of Dr. Fenton Schaffner. Dr. Schaffner was a distinguished clinician, educator, and investigator. Dr. Schaffner was born and educated in Chicago, Illinois. He joined the staff of Mount Sinai Hospital in 1958, established the division of Liver Diseases, and served as its first Director. During his exceptional career at Mount Sinai, he held full professorships in both Medicine and Pathology and was acting Chairman of the Department of Medicine from 1972-1974. Dr. Schaffner was the George Baehr Professor of Medicine from 1973 until his retirement in 1991. Dr. Schaffner was a founding member of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases and served as both Secretary and President. He also served as Governor of the New York Downstate Chapter of the American College of Physicians. He was a master clinician who attended to needs of his patients from around the globe. His advice and wisdom are still remembered fondly by those he cared for. Dr. Schaffner was an esteemed educator, teacher, and pioneer in the study of liver diseases. He authored more than 400 papers and books and was recognized by hepatologists and trainees everywhere. He co-edited the classic text series ''Progress in Liver Diseases'' over a 29 year period. His legacy is best measured by the dozens of fellows he trained who now represent an internatonal community of senior hepatologists. Each of those he mentored carries the perssonal memroies of an insightful and compassionate leader who changed the course of their careers. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Rosanne Kerby Schaffner, and the entire family. Paul Berk, MD Chief, Division of Liver Diseases Barry Coller, MD Chairman, Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton, M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health note with profound sadness the passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Fenton Schaffner, M.D., Professor Emeritus of the Samuel Bronsman Department of Medicine, who was associated with Mount Sinai for more than four decades. A pioneering expert in the field of liver diseases, Dr. Schaffner was instrumental in the creation of the medical specialty of Hepatology. He joined Mount Sinai in 1958 and held appointments in the Departments of Medicine and Pathology. He established the Division of Liver Diseases in 1968 and he served as its Chief for more than two decades. He also served for two years as acting Chairman of Medicine and he held the George Baehr Professorship in Medicine from 1973 until his retirement in 1991. Dr. Schaffner was known for his keen insights as a researcher, his extraordinary abilities as a mentor and his commitment to excellence in patient care. He will be remembered fondly for his clinical and teaching skills, for his devotion to patients and students, and for his personal warmth. He will be sorely missed. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife, Roseanne, to his children and to the entire family. Helene L. Kaplan, Chair Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chair Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine John W. Rowe, MD, President Mount Sinai NYU Health Barry R. Freedman, President The Mount Sinai Hospital
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. A pillar of the Mount Sinai community for more than forty years, Dr. Schaffner was a gentle man, scholar, researcher, teacher, mentor, and role model to all. As a clinician, his fusion of scientific skill and compassionate concern for the wellbeing of the individual patient has exemplified the most noble aspiration of the medical profession. His passion for scholarship and commitment to excellence in both clinical practice and research inspired the hundreds of young physicians he trained in the specialty of Liver Disease. In 1992, The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Schaffner in acknowledgment of his outstanding professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the Medical Center and the Alumni. A caring and beloved physician, he will be missed. Our sincere condolences are extended to his entire family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G.Stein, M.D., Treasurer
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton. The Faculty and Staff of the Recanati/Miller Transplantation Institute of the Mount Sinai Hospital and School of Medicine deeply mourn the passing of Fenton Schaffner, MD, gifted doctor, visionary and friend. He was an extraordinary physician and educator, who dedicated himself to the field of hepatology as the founder of the Division of Liver Diseases at Mount Sinai. His pioneering spirit and commitment to the care of patients with liver disease were instrumental to the formation of the Recanati/Miller Transplantation Institute. His mentorship established an academic environment which has encouraged many to contribute to advances in the field of liver diseases. To his wife, Rosanne Kerby Schaffner, and his children, family, and all those who loved him, we extend our heartfelt condolences. He will be greatly missed. Charles M. Miller, MD, Director Henry C. Bodenheimer, MD, Deputy Director
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our longstanding colleague. Dr. Schaffner trained in gastroenterology, pathology, and liver disease, and deddicated himself to serving the institution for more than forty years. He served as a mentor in the specialty of liver disease and was widely admired for his commitment to teaching as well as clinical practice. In 1992, Dr Schaffner was awarded the Jacobi Medallion, honoring him as an extraordinary member of our Attending Staff. He was revered by his patients and will be remembered for his compassion, expertise in his field and his many years of service. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Stanley Tuhrim, M.D., President Terry Weill, M.D., Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton, M.D. The Transplant Living Center deeply mourns the loss of ''Friend'' and board member, Fenton Schaffner, M.D. and extends deepest sympathy to his wife Rosanne and the family.
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton. We mourn the passing of a great teacher and a good firend. Peter Holt Gastrointestinal Div. St Luke's Roosevelt Hospital Ctr
      