
        BIGELOW-John B. Of Woodstock, CT, died Friday, January 14 at the Day Kimball Hospital, Putnam, CT. He was 90 years old. From 1937 to 1974 he was the Headmaster of the Rectory School in Pomfret, CT, an independent elementary boarding school for boys and day school for girls and boys. After retiring, he and his wife Marga resided in Thompson and then Woodstock. He was a graduate from the Kent School in 1929 and from Harvard University (A.B.) in 1933. After college, he devoted his entire working life to the Rectory School founded in 1920 by his parents, the Reverend Frank and Mabel Bigelow. Frank was the rector of Christ Episcopal Church, Pomfret. The school started with two boys, John Bigelow and John Holt in the church rectory. ''Mr. John,'' as he was known by generations of students and faculty, first taught at Rectory and then when his father died became the Headmaster. The school grew in size and reputation. In the late 1940's, assisted by his wife Doris and with the guidance of Page and Laura Sharp, he initiated and developed a substantial tutorial program for students with dyslexia, a program to which Rectory remains committed. Although much larger now than in its early years, Rectory remains what his parents and he envisioned, a place that nurtures and develops both mind and character. He has been a member and vestryman of Christ Church, trustee of Rectory and other independent schools, member of the Harvard Clubs of Boston, Northern Connecticut and New York City, and member and treasurer (1959-1973) of the International Dyslexia Association (formerly the Orton Society). Revered and respected educator, devout Christian, and loving and beloved husband, father, friend and colleague, he is survived by his wife Margarete (Koenig) Bigelow, married 1969; two sons from his first marriage to Jean Ferguson Bigelow, John B. Bigelow, Jr., of Baltimore, MD and Blair Bigelow of Cambridge, MA; one step-son from his second marriage to Doris (Gardner) Bigelow, she died 1967, Robert Fisher of Pomfret; and five grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren. He was predeceased by his sister Elizabeth Abbott in September 1999. Memorial service Saturday, February 19, at 11 AM in Christ Church Episcopal, Route 169, Pomfret, CT. Private burial in North Pomfret Cemetery, Pomfret. No calling hours. Memorial donations may be made in his memory to the Rectory School Scholarship Fund, Pomfret, CT 06258. For further information contact the Smith & Walker Funeral Home, 148 Grove St., Putnam, CT.
      