
        BENJAMIN-Dr. Bernard. Formerly of Brooklyn NY. On January 1, 2000 at age 96. Noted pediatric physician who first identified pernicious anemia in children. A Research Fellow at the Rockefeller Institute. He was also a Professor at the State Univerity of New York, Downstate Medical Center at Brooklyn for 25 years. He practiced pediatrics and lived in Bedford-Stuyvesant for over 60 years. During WW II, Col. Benjamin received the Bronze Star Medal for his medical service in Europe. His first wife, Professor Helen Benjamin died in 1982. He is survived by his wife, Margery Benjamin (nee Hofstater), his son, Dr. Robert Benjamin of Houston TX, his daughter, Ann Goldblatt of Norwalk CT, four grandchildren and one great grandchild. Funeral services Wednesday, January 5 at 12:45PM at Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam Ave at 76th Street, NYC
        BENJAMIN-William P., M.D. Loving husband, father & grandfather. Died on Dec. 21, 1999. He was a graduate of Brooklyn College and the University of Maryland School of Medicine. He completed his post-graduate training in Topeka, KS at the Menninger School of Psychiatry and Psychoanalytic Institute. He developed and directed the Psychiatric Day Hospital at Hillside Hospital and was Associate Professor of Clinical Psychiatry at Stony Brook, SUNY until his retirement from the hospital in 1989. He maintained a private practice until shortly before his death. He was a former president of the Nassau Neuropsychiatric Society, former chairman of the Mental Health Association from which he received the citation of distinguished service. He was also a member of numerous medical societies during his career. He is survived by his loving wife Marilyn; children Michael, Melanie and Cynthia; grandchildren Casey, Samuel, Nathaniel, Kyle and Nicholas; his sister Estelle Seidenberg and his niece Marion Benet. Services will be held at the Unitarian Universalist Congregation at Shelter Rock on Shelter Rock Road in Manhasset, NY on Sunday, January 9 at 3 PM. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions in his name to the Menninger Foundation, Post Office Box 829, Topeka, KS 66601.
      