
        SAPORTA-Herman. January 10, 2000. Most beloved father of Nuny Grey, Alan and Sallie Saporta, Marcia and Elliott Hanin. Adored Adda of Gary and Mary, Fredda and Andrew, Felice and Jeffrey, Hy, Adam & Ilene, & Fallon. Devoted & loving great-grandfather to David and Evan. Ever caring brother of Sam and Harriet, Julia, Jack and Judy, Barbara and Philip and Jean and Paul. Loving uncle and patriach to his many nieces & nephews. Dynamic leader in the garment industry. Philanthropist & founder member of the Sephardic Temple and past President of the Sephardic home for the Aged. He will be forever missed & loved. Services on Wednesday, January 12th, Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76th Street, New York, New York at 12:30 P.M.
        SAPORTA-Herman. The Sephardic Temple, Congregation Emeth, Ve Shalom of Cedarhurst, New York, & the Sisterhood of the Sephardic Temple, record with deep regret the tragic passing of Herman Saporta. Vice President of the Congregation. A Founder of the congregation, he served in every capacity and on almost every committee. His dedication to the Sephardic Temple, and the Sephardic Community as well, was exemplary. A proud Sephardic Jew whose philanthropic involvement reached every corner of our community, especially his family. Warmest condolences to Frieda Saporta, his children Nuny Grey, Alan and Sallie Saporta, Marcia and Elliott Hanin, and his siblings Sam Saporta, Julia Rousso, Jack Saporta, Barbara Schram, and Gean Friedman. May the family be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Funeral services at Boulevard Chapel, 180 West 76th., New York, Wednesday, January 12 at 12:30 P.M. Arnold B. Marans, Rabbi David Abikzer, Hazzan Joseph Camhi, President Isaac J. Russo Chairman of the Board Estelle Ezratty, Sisterhood President
        SAPORTA-Herman. It is with heartfelt sorrow that we record the passing of our honorary president, esteemed board member and generous benefactor of the Sephardic Home. He had a deep concern for the well being of the elderly residents in our Home and community. He was a great leader, contributing to the Home's success. He was loved and respected & will be sorely missed. We extend condolences to his entire family: Frieda Saporta, his children Nuny Grey, Alan and Sallie Saporta, Marcia and Elliott Hanin, and his siblings Sam Saporta, Julia Rousso, Jack Saporta, Barbara Schram, and Gean Friedman. There was a special love between him, his grandchildren and great grandchildren. The Sephardic Home Robert A. Cohen, President Ralph J. Kamhi, Ch of the Board Michael New, Executive Director Ladies Auxiliary (LASHA) Marion Crespi, President Reggie Goldberg, Ch of the Board
        SAPORTA-Hyman. In loving memory of a beloved husband, father, grandfather and great-grandfather. A vibrant and dynamic man who touched all of our lives. His kindness, generosity and strength will always be remembered and he will live in our hearts forever. With deepest sympathy and much love. The Mathias' The Ruff's The Levy's
        SAPORTA-Herman. We mourn the loss of our beloved Uncle Hymie. His love of life and family was an inspiration to all and his laughter and humor will live forever in our hearts. He was deeply loved and will be greatly missed. ''The Pollackas.'' Doris Rousso Taxin, Sarah and Louis E. Rousso, and Susan and Edward Tawil
        SAPORTA-Hy. Adoring and adored father to our friend Nuny. Loving & beloved grandfather to our children Fredda and Andrew. Adored and adoring great-grandfather to our beloved grandchild David. He brought joy to so many lives and will be sorely missed. Marsha and Richard
        SAPORTA-Herman. The members of the City Athletic Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member-we extend heartfelt condolences to his family. City Athletic Club, Board of Govenors
      