
        DuBOIS-John. John ''The Cajun Balladeer DuBois'', a singer who will be posthumously inducted into the Louisiana Music Hall of Fame, died January 8, 2000 from a stroke at his home in the French Quarter. He was 74. Mr. DuBois was born in Vermillion Parish and lived for many years on the East Coast. He returned to Louisiana in the early 1980s where he took an active part in the state and New Orleans music scene. A popular and beloved performer and friend to many, Mr. DuBois' life spanned at least three careers in entertainment. After performing in summer stock and as a singer and actor in early television in New York City on the ''Colgate Comedy Hour'', with such stars as Jimmy Durante, Fred Allen, Eddie Cantor and Milton Berle, Mr. DuBois spent two decades in the hotel and hospitality industry, but never stopped performing. While residing for many years in Stockbridge, MA., he introduced the Cajun culture of his youth to the Berkshires with ''La Fete Acadienne'' and recorded Cajun ballads for the Folk Music Archives in the Library of Congress. When he returned to Louisiana, Mr. DuBois entered enthusiastically into the state's music world, performing in festivals ranging from New Orleans to Paris, France and leaving a legacy of classic Cajun music on popular CDs: ''Dans Le Creux DuBois'' and ''Rendev-Vous Louisianais''. His third ''Bayou Ballads'' contains a rare collection of ancient, almost forgotten French tunes passed on to him by his grandparents and his childhood music teacher, Catherine Brookshire Blanchett. Referring to his creatively expanded instrumentation, Bruce Boyd Raeburn of Tulane University wrote ''He has infused these songs with a new vitality, not only rescuing them from obscurity but also adding l'esprit DuBois.'' Mr. DuBois' dedication to preserving historic music led to his inclusion in the Louisiana Music Hall of Fame. Induction ceremonies will be April 16, 2000 in Lafayette. To be released this Spring, a fourth CD ''It's Never Too Late: John DuBois Celebrates the music of John Wallowitch'' is a collection of cabaret songs and show tunes composed by Mr. DuBois' longtime New York friend and colleague who was best known for his song ''New York, New York''. All Mr. DuBois' CDs are distinguished not only by authenticity of arrangement but also by the ensemble work of some of South Louisiana's finest traditional and contemporary musicians. He wrote of his recording works: ''I came to rejoice in the present by a return to the past. I am lucky to have had a past worth sharing with future generations. I now sing my songs everywhere. I must sing them, I must share them with you.'' Survivors include his wife, Christina DuBois, three sons Andre DuBois of Salt Lake City, UT., Michael DuBois of San Francisco and Christopher DuBois of Stockbridge, MA. and a sister Mary DuBois. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, memorials be sent to one of the following charities: Dr. Tommy Comeau Memorial Fund, to endow a chair in traditional music at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, c/o Acadiana Arts Council, POB 53762, Lafayette, LA. 70501.
      