
        STEIN-James, 93. Died Tuesday, January 11, 2000, at Calvary Hospice. Beloved husband of the late Helen Kaven Stein, who passed May 29, 1999. Cherished father of Elizabeth Graber and father-inlaw of Fredric Graber. Devoted grandfather to Anne and David Graber. Born in Eveleth, MN. Attended University of Wisconsin and Marquette Law School. Dedicated Trustee to Maimonides Hospital for over 40 years. Memorial visiting Thursday, January 13, 5:307:30 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.
        STEIN-James A. It is with deep sadness that the family of Maimonides Medical Center note the passing of James A. Stein, an esteemed Trustee and benefactor of 40 years. His untiring commitment was marked by his wise counsel, generosity of spirit and boundless devotion. He served as a member of the Executive Committee, Treasurer, Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees and Honorary Trustee. To his daughter and sonin-law, Elizabeth and Fred Graber and their children, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Maimonides Medical Center Martin D. Payson Chairman of the Board Stanley Brezenoff, President
        STEIN-James. The Board of Directors of Maimonides Research and Development Foundation announce with great sorrow the passing of James Stein. Mr. Stein has been associated with the Foundation and has been actively involved, serving as Secretary/ Treasurer for the past 17 years. Mr. Stein's foresight, knowledge and wisdom served the Foundation well. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his daughter Elizabeth, his grandson David, and to his sisters. He will live in our hearts always. Marvin Eisenstadt, Chairman Edna Palozzolo, President
        STEIN - James. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, James Stein. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        STEIN-James. The Board of Governors of the City Athletic Club mourn the passing of James Stein. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Michael Todres, President
        STEIN-James. Jimmy, you were the best. We will miss you terribly. Hans and Ruth Clapper
      