
        SOSNOW-Morris. On January 15, 2000 at the age of 93, of Kings Point and Miami Beach. Loving husband of Kate. Devoted father of Bernice and the late Jerrold, Lorraine and Irving, Sheila and Richard. Beloved brother of Henja Joskowitz. Adored grandfather of Zabrina, Seth, Kristina, Daryl, Mindy, Ron, Robert, Tracie, Ethan and Julia. Proud great-grandfather of Dari, Eric, Perri, Cari, Jennifer and Madison. Services to be held at Temple Israel of Great Neck, Old Mill Rd., Great Neck, NY, Monday, January 17, 2000, at 1:30 PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in his memory to North Shore University Hospital, 300 Community Drive, Manhasset, NY 11030.
        SOSNOW-Morris. The partners, attorneys and staff of Certilman Balin Adler & Hyman LLP are deeply saddened at the passing of our dear friend and client, Morris Sosnow. He was greatly respected as a leader and innovator in the building industry. He will be truly missed by all the people whose lives he touched with his wisdom, generosity and humor. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Kate, and the entire family.
        SOSNOW-Morris. The Meltzer family deeply regrets the passing of an old friend and associate. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his wife Katie and the rest of his family. He was a wonderful and loving husband and patriarch, a man of great distinction and integrity who left his mark and made his contribution in both his development activities as well as his philanthropic endeavors. He will be missed by all who knew him.
        SOSNOW-Morris. We are saddened by the passing of our longtime family friend, Morris Sosnow. He was an adored husband, father, grandfather, great-grandfather and friend. We will sorely miss him. Our deepest sympathy to Kate and her loving family. Charlotte and Roger Beth and Peter Marc and Ellen Eric and Lisa
        SOSNOW-Morris. You were a giant among men, and an inspiration to all who knew you. We will miss your warmth, your caring, and your extreme graciousness. Our heartfelt condolences go out to your devoted wife, proud daughters, and your entire loving family. Joan, David and Linda Goebel
        SOSNOW-Morris. Industrial & Research Associates Company and the Tilles Companies deeply mourn the loss of our friend, our mentor and our partner. From the start, his counsel has made us strong and prosperous. We will miss him greatly. Our prayers are with Kate and the family.
        SOSNOW-Morris. You will be in our thoughts each and every day and you will be in our hearts forever. There are no words that can express how much we all love you or how much we will all miss you. Love, Zabrina, Seth, Kristina, Daryl, Cari and Jennifer
        SOSNOW-Morris. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire Sosnow family on the loss of their dear Morris. May the love and memories you have for him be cherished forever. Love, The Dubofsky Family
        SOSNOW-Morris. We will miss your warm smile and embrace when you walked up the aisle on the High Holidays. Our thoughts to Katie and to our dear friends Bonnie, Lorraine and Sheila. Ashley and Harriet
        SOSNOW-Morris. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President
        SOSNOW-Morris. Now, endless tears; forever, endless memories. Our heartfelt sympathy to all the families. Donna and Philip Levien
        SOSNOW-Morris. Pa, we love you so much. We will cherish our memories and continue your legacy. Mindy and Ron Horowitz Dari, Eric and Perri
      