
        WHITE-Harold T., Jr. A retired investment banker, avid skier and sailor, died January 29, 2000 in his home in New Canaan, CT. He was a resident of New Canaan since 1949 and a summer resident of West Falmouth, MA since 1955. After graduating from the Milton Academy (MA) in 1933 and then Harvard University Magna Cum Laude in 1937, Mr. White pursued graduate studies in Physics at both Harvard and Princeton Universities. His Investment Banking career to White, Weld & Co. was interrupted by WWII. He joined the Coast Guard as a Chief Petty Officer commanding a private yacht converted for year round antisubmarine picket duty off the New England coast. During the early years of WWII, he worked with Raytheon helping develop radar for military use. In 1946 he returned to White, Weld where he was a limited partner until the firms sale to Merrill Lunch in the 1970's. He was also a long time Director of the Hackensack Water Company in New Jersey and of the Chubb Insurance companies. For many years before WWII, Mr. White was successful in one design sailboat racing on the Long Island Sound. During the 1960's and 1970's he had similar success, mainly on Cape Cod, competing in many day and overnight cruising class races. He was also an avid down hill skier for over 50 years, until the late 1980's. During the 1970's he served as a trustee of Milbrook School in upstate New York and was a member of the New Canaan, CT Board of Finance. He was also a trustee of the Boy's Club of New York City. In addition to Penelope Weld White, his wife of 59 years, he leaves five sons; Charles Dana White of Santa Barbara, CA, Alexander Weld White of Byfield, MA, Harold T. White III of Bedford, NY, Christopher M. White of Boston, MA, and Francis Weld White of Nordland, WA. Seven grandchildren, Cynthia White, Alexander (Sandy) White, Nathaniel White, Gavin White, Henry White, Collin White and Bradley Hunt, also survive. A memorial service will be held on Tuesday, February 1, 2000 at 11:00 AM at the St. Matthew's Episcopal Church, 382, Cantitoe St., Bedford, NY. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Whittingham Cancer Center, Steven's St., Norwalk, CT.
      