
        LIPSHIE-Geraldine On January 3, 2000. Beloved wife of Norman. Cherished daughter of Sydell Ballon. Loving mother of Greg, Tamara, Cara, Amy and Beth. Dear sister of Lois and adored Bubby to Madeleine, Claire, Melissa, William, Lila and Aaron. Services Tuesday 12:30pm at ''Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions may be made in her memory to Parkinson Disease Foundation.
        LIPSHIE-Geraldine. The friends and supporters of Colel ChabadLubavitch mourn the passing of our long-time friend, supporter and past guest of honor Geraldine Lipshie. A true woman of valor with the extraordinary Jewish values of giving and sharing, beloved wife of our very dear friend, leader and supporter Norman Lipshie who brought Colel Chabad to new heights. We send condolences to Norman, to the children Greg, Beth, Amy, Tamara, Cara and grandchildren. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sholom Duchman, Director Colel Chabad
        LIPSHIE-Geraldine. Agriprocessors, Inc. and all its affiliates send condolences to our long-time good friend, Mr. Norman Lipshie. Through whose guidance our companies have attained great heights, on the passing of his noble wife, Geraldine Lipshie. Together with you we will miss Geraldine..who was much more than a friend. May you be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mr. & Mrs. Avraham A. Rubashkin Mr. & Mrs. Sholom M. Rubashkin Mr. & Mrs. Heshy Rubashkin Mr. & Mrs. Yossi Rubashkin Mr. & Mrs. Moshe Rubashkin
        LIPSHIE - Geraldine.Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Geraldine Lipshie. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        LIPSHIE-Geraldine.Dear Geraldine, June will never be the same again. We will all miss you desperately. Rest in peace. Love, June Babies
        LIPSHIE-Geraldine. Miss you, love you. Love me, Lois
      