
        GOTTLIEB-Jules Arthur. Of Manhasset, NY and Boca Raton, FL died peacefully at home January 26, 2000. Beloved husband and best friend of Ann (Lowenstein), devoted father of Lawrence Gottlieb (Peggy Watson), Lisa (Michael) Senter, Lynne (Steven) Blumenstock, Jon Gottlieb (Janet Tenore), adoring grandfather of Andrew and Victoria Senter, Alexa and Hannah Blumenstock, Sophie Gottlieb and Sarah Gottlieb. Founder and president of ABCO Refrigeration Supply Corp. Graduate of Lehigh University with a degree in Engineering, 1943. Lt. Commander of USN minesweeper in the South Pacific throughout W.W. II. Born on June 17, 1922, Mr. Gottlieb was, and always will be, a great inspiration. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Funeral service Friday, January 28, 12 noon at The Riverside Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. Memorial contributions may be made to the Ann and Jules Gottlieb Women's Comprehensive Health Center, Long Island Jewish Medical Center (call Mindy Reade of the North Shore LIJ Health System for more information).
        GOTTLIEB-Jules A. With great sadness the employees of ABCO Refrigeration Supply Corp. mourn the passing of Jules A. Gottlieb, Founder and President for more than fifty years. To everyone who knew him, he was, and always will be, a great inspiration. Mr. Gottlieb is irreplaceable to the members of his organization, his customers, and HVAC/R manufacturers throughout the country. Mr. Gottlieb believed each customer and every transaction had to be treated as ABCO's most important customer and most valuable sale. The employees of ABCO take pride in having learned Jules's creed, and seek to fulfill his commitment to excellence each and every day. George Moncher, Jon Gottlieb and Michael Senter and All of the Employees of ABCO Refrigeration Supply Corp.
        GOTTLIEB-Jules. We express our deepest sadness on the passing of a dear friend whose dedication and generosity leave a legacy of excellence in health care for women. The Ann and Jules Gottlieb Women's Comprehensive Health Center is named for its benefactors who had the creativity and devotion to turn their vision into reality. Every day, lives are saved by the professionals at this specialized health center. The name of Jules Gottlieb will remain fondly in our hearts. We extend our very deepest condolences to the entire Gottlieb family. It is our hope that your loving memories help ease the pain of his passing. Vicki Seltzer MD, and the staff of the Ann and Jules Gottlieb Women's Comprehensive Health Center
        GOTTLIEB-Jules. We note with sorrow the passing of our longtime friend and supporter. Together with his wife, Ann, Jules Gottlieb devoted himself to establishing programs that improved the health of thousands. The Ann and Jules Gottlieb Women's Comprehensive Health Center is an example of their notable commitment to providing excellence in health care for all women. We extend our most sincere condolences to Ann Gottlieb, a Trustee of our health system and a respected community leader. Saul B. Katz, Chairman, Board of Trustees John S. T. Gallagher, CEO David R. Dantzker, MD, President North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        GOTTLIEB-Jules. We note with great sadness the passing of our dear friend, Jules Gottlieb whose generosity and concern for others and whose unassuming manner endeared him to all. Our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved Ann and to their children. Bernice Manocherian And Sy Malamed
        GOTTLIEB-Jules. Sincerest sympathy to our dear friend, Ann, and her family on the loss of a very special husband and father. Rae and Irving Russo and family
        GOTTLIEB-Jules. A friend for many years, we will lovingly remember him for his warmth and sense of humor. The Lawrence Family
      