
        HELPHAND-Lewis. On January 7th, 2000. Beloved husband of Dorothy and the late Ruth. Loving father of Kenneth and David. Dear brother of Anna, Laura, the late Pearl and the late Esther. Adoring grandfather of Sam (Erica) and Ben. Step-father of Mark, Russell & Susan. Step-grandfather of Matthew. Devoted father-in-law of Margot and Ling. Beloved uncle. Born in Anamosa, Iowa on February 21, 1917. Was awarded the Silver Star and the Bronze Star at the Battle of Okinawa. He was a board member of the National Charities Information Board. A man of strength, integrity and courage, a true hero who was devoted to his family and his work. Contributions in his honor may be made to the United Jewish Appeal, the Lighthouse For The Blind or the East End Hospice, Westhampton, New York. Service on Sunday, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        HELPHAND-Lewis A. Fanny Goldstein and the nieces and nephews of our beloved uncle Lew, will always remember his many kind and thoughtful ways. A decorated Naval Officer who served his country during WWII. Rest in peace. Always remembered.
        HELPHAND-Lewis. We mourn the passing of our beloved partner Lewis Helphand. Lew was our hero and our truest gentleman. His life-saving exploits in the Pacific during W.W.II were indicative of his bravery and selflessness. He always put others ahead of himself, both in wartime and in the workplace. Lew was a man of great grace, bearing and dignity, who cared deeply about his family, his co-workers and his clients. He taught us that caring, sensitivity and manners were the hallmarks of a civilized society. Lew set so many good examples for us in the way he treated people. Lew brought sunshine to all our lives. We will miss him dearly. From Lew's extended family at work, we extend our heartfelt condolences to Dottie, the wife he adored, and the rest of his immediate family. The Partners & Staff of Goldstein, Golub, Kessler, LLP
        HELPHAND-Lewis. We want to mark the untimely passing of a very special person and the last true ''gentleman'' in the best sense of the word. 82 years young and filled with spirit, warmth, caring and friendship. We will miss your 4:00 ''tea time'' and remember the good times we shared. Judi and Jerry Lerman
      