
        ROSE-O. Alan., M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Employees of Lenox Hill Hospital express their profound sorrow at the loss of O. Alan Rose, M.D., Emeritus Physician, an esteemed member of our hospital family. Dr. Rose joined our Cardiology staff in 1941 and was formerly Chief of the Cardiac Clinic. He was an accomplished physician whose commitment to providing the finest possible medical care was evident throughout his illustrious medical career at Lenox Hill Hospital. A medical pioneer, Dr. Rose investigated medications used in the treatment of heart & vascular disease and published the first clinical evaluation of the now universally used digitalis ingredient digoxin. During World War II, he joined a team of Lenox Hill Hospital physicians who volunteered to participate in the Hospital's 12th Evacuation Hospital that cared for American troops and served under General George Patton from the time of the invasion of Germany through the Battle of the Bulge. A gifted and compassionate physician who loved the art and science of medicine, he was unwavering in his devotion to his many patients, including several generations of individual families. Dr. Alan Rose leaves an exceptional legacy of service to medicine, to his Country and to Lenox Hill Hospital. The entire hospital family honors the memory of this kind and gentle man who truly exemplified the highest standards of his profession. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Frances B. Rose, MD, and family. James S. Marcus, Chairman, Board of Trustees Gladys George, President & CEO Allen H. Collins, MD, MPH, President, Medical Board
        ROSE-O. Alan, M.D., age 90, died on January 10, 2000 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He leaves behind his beloved wife Frances of over 50 years and also his loving daughter Susan and two grandsons. He was a graduate of Yale University and Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons and one-time President of its Alumni Association. Following his internship, he did research in cardiovascular drugs at the New York University College of Medicine. This was interrupted by WW II in which he served with Lenox Hill Hospital Unit for three years. On his return, he devoted himself to teaching and to the practice of medicine and cardiology until days before his death. He was an Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine at the New York University College of Medicine. He was devoted to three generations of patients and they to him. He was a man of wide interest and loved beautiful things, views, photography, sailing and music. He sang and travelled with the Yale Glee Club. Above all, he loved life. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Thursday January 13, at 2PM.
        ROSE-O. Alan, MD. The entire Dept. of Medicine mourns the loss of Dr. O. Alan Rose, Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine and Attending Physician at Bellevue and Tisch Hospitals. He was a talented Clinician who was an outstanding mentor and teacher to students, house staff and his colleagues. He was a loyal & devoted member of our faculty. His in quisitive mind and articulate questioning stimulated our intellectual curiosity and led us to sharpen our clinical thinking. He will be missed. We express our warm and deep sympathy to his beloved spouse Dr. Frances Bailen Rose, Assistant Professor of Clinical Medicine and to his family. Saul J. Farber, MD MACP, The Frederick H. King, Professor and Chairman Dept. of Medicine Director Medical Services Bellevue and Tisch Hospitals
        ROSE-O. Alan, M.D. The Association of the Alumni of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University records with deep sorrow the death of its past president. He had a long and distinguished career as a cardiologist. A graduate of the P&S class of 1936, he was a loyal and active alumnus of P&S. In 1980, the alumni awarded him their highest service medal, the Gold Medal, in recognition of his loyalty and commitment. His wise counsel and dedicated service to his Alma Mater were a continuing source of pride to his colleagues in the Alumni Association. We join in expressing sincere condolences to the family. Marianne Wolff, M.D., President P & S Alumni Association Anke L. Nolting, PhD, Associate Dean
      