
        SCHUBART-Mark. With great sadness and a great sense of loss, the Board, staff, and friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., mourn the sudden passing of Mark Schubart, Founding Director and Chairman Emeritus of Lincoln Center Institute for the Arts in Education, and former Board Member and Director Emeritus of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. A true visionary, Mr. Schubart transformed the way that students and teachers interact with the arts by building Lincoln Center Institute into one of the nation's leading arts in education organizations. Under his nurturing leadership, the Institute's success grew into an international movement, with a network of affiliated institutes across the country and overseas. After completing two decades of service, Mr. Schubart became the Institute's fourth Chairman of the Board (1995-1998), and was subsequently named Chairman Emeritus. He first joined Lincoln Center in 1963 as its Director of Education, after serving as Director of Public Activities, Dean, and then Vice President of The Juilliard School of Music. Though his passion and commitment to the cause of education will be sorely missed, his spirit shines brightly through the ongoing work of the Institute. We extend our deepest sympathies to best friend Martin Rapp, his sisterin-law Margaret Schubart and eight nieces and nephews. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. Scott Noppe-Brandon, Executive Director Bonnie Himmelman, Acting Chair Lincoln Center Institute for the Arts in Education
        SCHUBART-Mark. With deep sadness, the Juilliard community mourns the death of Mark Schubart, who held numerous important positions at The Juilliard School from 1946 to 1962, including that of Dean and Vice President. Mark had an extraordinarily positive impact on the entire institution, developing innovative programs that flourish to this day at the school, and around the nation. His leadership of the Lincoln Center Institute created a legacy which has had an impact on how the performing arts are effectively taught to children. With understatement, wit, and intellect, he was known as one of the great music educators of the 20th Century. His presence will be missed by us all. Mary Rodgers Guettel, Chairman Joseph W. Polisi, President
      