
        WEAVER-Glenn., 82, of Wethersfield, died Wednesday, January 12 at Hartford Hospital. He is survived by his wife, Emojean (Shulenberger) Weaver and two sons, John and Peter. He was born in Altoona, PA and received the AB from Catawba College, Salisbury, NC; the BD degree from Lancaster (PA) Theological Seminary; MA from Lehigh University; MA from Yale; PhD from Yale University as a Buckley Fellow. He taught History at Catawba College, Lehigh University, Connecticut College for Women and Albany State Teachers College. For 42 years, he lived in Wethersfield and taught History at Trinity College where he was the first Dana Research professor of History. In the past 42 years, he has written: Jonathan Trumbull: Connecticut's Merchant Magistrate; History of Trinity College Vol. I; History of Hartford; History of the Hartford Electric Light Company; History of the Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company; History of the Hartford Foundation for Public Giving; The Italian Presence in Colonial Virginia; and for the Connecticut's Project for the Bicentennial, he chose 35 men to write the booklets on some aspects of Connecticut during the Revolution. This set of 35 booklets won the highest national award as the best project of all the 13 original states for the Bicentennial celebration. Professor Weaver was a very active member of the Connecticut Historial Society, The American Antiquarian Society, The Acorn Club of Connecticut, the Friends of the Franklin Papers, the Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the Columbia University Seminars in Colonial History. While at Trinity College, he created the archives in the library to house all important documents and taught a former student to be the college archivist. One of Professor Weaver's elective classes, ''The City in America,'' had the highest number of students in a 1-teacher class (165 students). A funeral service will be held on Wednesday, January 19, 11:00 AM at the Trinity College Chapel, 300 Summit Street, Hartford, with the Rev. Bordon Painter officiating. Calling hours are Tuesday from 4 to 7:00 PM at the D'Esopo Funeral Chapel, 277 Folly Brook Blvd, Wethersfield. Burial in Cedar Hill Cemetery.
      