
        AMES-Amyas., 93. Formerly of New York, died peacefully at home in Lexington, Massachusetts, on Monday, January 24, 2000. He is survived by his beloved wife Lucia Millham Ames, two sons Oakes and Edward Ames of New York City, two daughters Olivia Hoblitzelle of Cambridge, MA., and Joan Ames of Eugene, OR., 11 grandchildren and six great grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held at 11:30AM on February 4th at the First Parish Church, 14 Bedford Road, Lincoln, MA. In lieu of flowers memorial contributions may be made to the Brookhaven Nature Trail Fund, Brookhaven at Lexington, 1010 Waltham St, Lexington, MA. 02173.
        AMES-Amyas. With great sadness, the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Amyas Ames, Chairman of the Board of Lincoln Center from 1970 to 1981 and Chairman of the Board of New York Philharmonic from 1970 to 1983. Amyas led Lincoln Center through an accomplished yet challenging decade. He welcomed a number of new Lincoln Center constituent organizations, oversaw the reconstruction of Avery Fisher Hall, and became the driving force behind the Lincoln Center Fund. Under his leadership, several Lincoln Center hallmarks came into being: ''Live from Lincoln Center'', The Lincoln Center Institute for Arts in Education, The Consolidated Corporate Fund, and a greatly expanded series of community programs. In addition to successful fund raising for Lincoln Center, he showed great personal generosity as well. On a national level, he was a tireless advocate for the arts. As Honorary Chairman of Lincoln Center since 1981, he remained a devoted and involved friend. We send our condolences to his wife Lucia Millham Ames, his children Oakes, Edward, Joan and Olivia Hoblitzelle and to his grandchildren and his great grandchildren. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        AMES-Amyas. The Philharmonic Symphony-Society of New York, Inc., deeply mourns the passing of Amyas Ames, Chairman Emeritus, who served as a tireless advocate of the New York Philharmonic for many years. Mr. Ames joined the Philharmonic's Board of Directors in 1955, and soon assumed a number of leadership positions, including President, 1963 - 1970, and Chairman, 1970-1983. During his tenure as President and Chairman the Society experienced an unprecedented expansion, including the implementation of free Concerts in the Parks and the Live from Lincoln Center broadcasts. Among his many contrbutions, Mr. Ames was instrumental in the renovation and renaming of Avery Fisher Hall, completed in 1976. He was given the title Chairman Emeritus in 1985, and made an Honorary Director of the Society in 1990. His love of music and his immense contribution to the Orchestra will long enrich the lives of the entire Philharmonic family. We extendour sincere condolences to his family. Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman William Thomas, Acting Executive Director
      