
        TELTSCHER-Herry, O., Dr. A much beloved Viennese born psychotherapist, a distinguished clinical psychologist and world renowned handwriting expert, died on January 27 in New York. He lived fully until his unexpected passing at age 89, still vital, active and seeing clients. Dr. Teltscher was the author of two books on Grapho-Diagnostics. He had more than 60 years of experience as a handwriting expert in Europe and the United States and was widely respected for his pioneering efforts in the use of writing as a diagnostic tool in psychiatric and medical disorders. He was a member of military intelligence in the U.S. Army during WWII. In years past he worked closely with research physicians investigating the effects of Parkinson's Disease on handwriting. Another paper written with W.G. Eliasberg, M.D., PhD. postulated that Roosevelt was already ill at Yalta by examining his handwriting, an observation that was only recently validated by Roosevelt's personal physician. His published paper on Lee Harvey Oswald was submitted to the Warren Commission and his blind analysis of the socalled Swiss Nanny is reported in a segment of Joyce Egginton's book, ''Circle of Fire''. He published numerous articles in the scientific press and in popular magazines such as Vogue and Glamour. As an expert document examiner he testified in many court proceedings and was a Fellow of the American College of Forensic Examiners. In 1986 he was honored by the American Psychological Association for distinguished contribution to clinical psychology. As Director of Supervision for the Morton Prince Clinic for Hypnosis. He was also considered one of the foremost pioneers in the use of hypnosis and relaxation techniques in therapy. He taught self hypnosis to his clients to give them a greater sense of mastery. His positive, creative and comforting spirit was an inspiration to all who knew him. He was the father of John, Nina and two daughters from an earlier marriage, Elizabeth Timberman and Susan Telcher. He is survived by his wife of 37 years, Betti and his sister, Jane Melvin of California. He is dearly missed by all who loved him and who hoped he would live forever. And so he will in our hearts. A memorial service will take place at All Souls Unitarian Church, Lexington Ave. & 80th St on Tuesday, February 8 at 4:00 PM.
      