
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton, MD.. 79. On January 24, 2000 at his home in Washington, Conn. Loving husband of Rosanne Kerby Schaffner. Father of Roberta Schaffner of Dallas, Tex., Dr. John Schaffner of Rochester, Mn., Dr. Andrea Schaffner of Madison, Conn. and Marjorie Schaffner of Chicago, Il. Grandfather of five. Brother of Gerald Schaffner of San Diego, Calif. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Thursday 6-8PM. Memorial service on Friday 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell. Donations in memory of Dr. Schaffner may be made to American Liver Foundation, The Greater New York Chapter, 80 Wall Street, Suite 1015, New York, New York 10005.
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton, M.D. The American Liver Foundation is profoundly saddened by the death of Dr. Fenton Schaffner. Dr. Schaffner was instrumental in the formation of the American Liver Foundation, The Greater New York Chapter. His vision and spirit helped shape the organization from its inception to the present day. Dr. Schaffner was the first recipient of the American Liver Foundation, The Greater New York Chapter's Mary Lea Johnson Richards Rresearch Institute Award which recognizes a scientist, researcher or medical leader who has advanced the treatment of, or research into, liver disease. For over 30 years, Dr. Schaffner served with distinction at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital, as well as in previous teaching positions in pathology and medicine at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and Northwestern University, Chicago. His energy and intellect, together with his contributions to clinical and experimental medicine made him one of the distinguished leaders in the field of liver disease. He will be greatly missed. The American Liver Foundation extends sincere condolences to Dr. Schaffner's wife, Rosanne, his childrenRoberta, John, Andrea and Margie-and to his family and friends. John M. Vierling, M.D., FACP Chair of the Board of Directors Alan P. Brownstein, President
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton, M.D. With deepest sorrow I mourn the passing of my cherished and devoted friend. He will be remembered always. My heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Rosanne. Kathryn Hepner
        SCHAFFNER-Fenton, M.D. The Transplant Living Center deeply mourns the loss of ''Friend'' and board member, Fenton Schaffner, M.D. and extends deepest sympathy to his wife Rosanne and the family.
      