
        McGARRY-Martin Joseph. Former newspaperman and retired public relations executive, died on January 20, in Hartford, CT, of complications resulting from pneumonia. Mr. McGarry was 82 years old. Mr. McGarry was born on November 12, 1917, in Philadelphia, PA, to Patrick and Isabel McGarry. He graduated from Philadelphia's renowned Central High School and received a BA in journalism from Temple University, where he served as an editor of the Temple News. He joined the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin as a reporter and became a White House correspondent during FDR's second administration until entering the US Army as a field artillery officer. He served for four years in the Pacific Theater during World War II and was commissioned a Major. Mr. McGarry received the Bronze Star as well as other military decorations. While in the Army, he frequently filed news stories to the Bulletin about Pennsylvanians serving in the war there. After the war, Mr. McGarry returned to the Bulletin and later joined Curtis Publishing in 1947. As a reporter, he contributed to the magazines of Curtis Publishing including Holiday and The Saturday Evening Post. In 1951, Mr. McGarry became a corporate public relations executive with Owens-Illinois in Toledo, OH. In 1956, he became Vice President of Communications with International Minerals and Chemicals Corporation in Chicago, IL. As part of this international mining and fertilizer company, he worked with then US Secretary of Agriculture, Orville Freeman, on projects to advance the initiatives of the World Food Organization around the globe. In 1968, Mr. McGarry joined Heublein, Inc., in Hartford, CT, as Vice President of Public Relations. During his over twenty years with Heublein, the company expanded its holdings in the beverage and food markets. Mr. McGarry created and led several innovative projects to publicize the company and its products. These national projects ranged from unique sporting events like surfing competitions in Hawaii and transcontinental sail plane races to Heublein's internationally acclaimed National Auction of Rare Wines. In the early 1980's, Mr. McGarry returned to Washington to lead Heublein's Government relations team. At both International Minerals Corp. and Heublein, Mr. McGarry had developed and coordinated a corporate-sponsored collection by world-renowned artists and sculptors. The collection was often on display for the public and was frequently on tour to museums throughout the world. Mr. McGarry was involved in the Hartford civic community. He served as President and on the Board of the Hartford Ballet and was a former member of the Board of St. Francis Hospital in Hartford, CT. Mr. McGarry served on advisory committees to Archbishop Whelan of the Archdiocese of Hartford. He was also involved in the political arena and played an active role in the campaigns of President John F. Kennedy and presidential candidate George McGovern. Mr. McGarry is survived by his beloved wife of 52 years, Kathryn; sons Denis McGarry, his wife, Patricia and their children Kaitlin, Erin, Connor and Michael of New Canaan, CT; F. Devin McGarry of Waltham, MA; and daughter Kathryn Ann O'Brien, her husband, Stephen, and their sons Liam and Rory of Simsbury, CT. Visitation will be held at the McGarry home on Friday, January 28, from 2 PM to 8 PM. Contact Molloy Funeral Home in West Hartford for further details, 860232-1322. A Funeral Mass will be held at 11 AM, on Saturday, January 29, at St. Timothy's Church, 1116 N. Main St, West Hartford. Memorial donations may be made to St. Francis Hospital, 114 Woodland St., Hartford, CT 06105; or the American Heart Association, 5 Brookside Drive, Wallingford, CT 06492.
      