
        SALINGER-Frances G. (Crystal). Age 88, of Palm Beach, Florida. Passed away on February 23, 2000. Mrs. Salinger, formerly of New York, was active in many community, religious and charitable organizations. She was the second woman in the country elected President of a Jewish synagogue as well as serving as the United Nations Representative of the National Council of Jewish Women. She was a woman of uncommon strength, character, dignity and intelligence and admired by all whose lives she touched. She was the widow of Fabian M. Crystal and Benjamin D. Salinger. Loving mother of Richard (Marilyn) Crystal, Andrew Crystal and Libby (Robert) Rappaport. Beloved sister of Thomas, Marge and Richard Grumbacher, Ann Lowengard and the late Catherine Myers. Adoring grandmother of Deborah (Paul) Rosenberg; Daniel, Bryan and Emily Crystal; and Alex, David and Toni Reamer. Greatgrandmother to Courtney, Jacob and Samuel Reamer. Aunt Fran to countless nieces and nephews. Funeral services will be held Friday, February 25th, 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, New York, N.Y. Family will receive friends Saturday night from 6PM to 9PM at the home of Richard Crystal, and Sunday from 2PM to 7PM at the home of Andrew Crystal. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the 92nd Street YM-YWHA.
        SALINGER-Frances. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Frances G. Salinger, beloved mother of two of our Directors, Andrew and Richard Crystal, and widow of longstanding 92nd Street Y Board member, Fabian M. Crystal. Our hearts and prayers go out to her daughter, Libby (Robert) Rappaport; her daughter-in-law, Marylyn, and her sisters, brothers, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Frances was a woman of uncommon grace, dignity and accomplishment admired by all those whose lives she touched. She will be missed and remembered with fondness and love. Philip Milstein, President Joseph Leff, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
      