
        MOORE-Alexander. Alexander Moore of Cincinnati, Ohio and Yemassee, SC died Friday, February 18, 2000 in Colleton Medical Center in Walterboro, SC. Born August 3, 1923 in Bar Harbor, Maine, he was a son of Benjamin and Alexandra Emery Moore. He grew up in Long Island, NY. He graduated from Harvard University in 1949 (Class of 1946) with a degree in chemical engineering. A highly decorated pilot in World War II, he earned two Distinguished Flying Crosses and Seven Air Medals for his service with the Army Air Corps in the China-Burma-India Theatre. Passionate about the care and stewardship of land and wildlife habitat, he and his wife supported the S.C. Coastal Conservation League, Ducks Unlimited, Tall Timbers Research, the LowCountry Open Land Trust and the S.C. Waterfowl Association. He also supported the S.C. Historical Society, the Spoleto Festival in Charleston and the Johnson & Wales University in Charleston. He was a member of the Carolina Plantation Society and the Carolina Yacht Club. In Cincinnati he was a major contributor to the Emery Center and a number of other arts and educational organizations through the Greater Cincinnati Foundation. He also supported Harvard University and the renovation of the Fly Club at Harvard. He was a member of the River Club in New York and the Camargo Country Club in Cincinnati. Surviving are his wife, Jacqueline Griswold Moore; children, Christina Millet of Needham, Mass, Benjamin Moore of Milwaukee, Wis., Jessie ''Jay'' Reighley of South Freeport, Maine, Robert Moore of Freeport, Maine and Rosita Moore of Pownal, Maine; step-children, John Earls of Cincinnati, Ohio, David Earls of Kansas City Missouri, Christopher Earls of Cincinnati, Jeffrey Earls of Fairfield, Conn., and Michael Earls of St. Helena, Calif, 11 grandchildren and 13 great grandchildren. A memorial service was held Sunday, February 20, 2000 at Combahee Plantation in Yemassee, SC. A second service is planned at a later date in Cincinnati. Burial will be in Laurelton Cemetery in Cold Spring Harbor, NY, according to the Fred Parker Funeral Home in Walterboro, SC. Donations may be made to the Low Country Open Land Trust, 456 King St, Charleston, SC 29403 or the organization of one's choice.
      