
        KATZ-Edward Benjamin, Dr. Lifelong resident of NYC, was born March 13, 1927, and died February 7, 2000. Dr. Katz graduated from Bronx High School of Science in 1945, and received his B.S.S. from City College of New York in 1949. In 1952, Dr. Katz received his M.S.L.S. from Columbia University School of Library Science. Dr. Katz was the librarian at Brooklyn Technical High School until his retirement in 1984, serving as an Examination Assistant for the NYC Board of Examiners from 1969 to 1970. Beginning in 1977, Dr. Katz began his studies with the Graduate Faculty of the New School for Social Research, earning his Ph.D. in 1991, and was certified as a Clinical Psychologist by New York State in 1995. His second career in psychology began in 1986 at South Beach Mental Health Center, and at the time of his death he practiced clincial psychology at the Department of Veterans Affairs New York Harbor Health Care System and the Health Care for Homeless Veterans Program. Preceded in death by his parents, Herman Katz and Minnie Davis Katz; his brother, Joseph P. Kates, and his sister, Edna B. Rosen. Survived by his nephews and nieces: Dr. Ronald E. Kates and wife Dr. Nadia Harbeck of Munich, Germany; Phyllis R. Rosen of Walkersville, MD; Kenneth H. Kates, Esq., and wife Linda Weingarten Kates of Houston, TX; Jay H. Rosen and wife Catherine Green Rosen of Clackamas, OR; and Lawrence P. Rosen and wife Susan Bell Rosen of Richmond, VA; by five great-nephews and four great-nieces; and by his brother-in-law, Robert Rosen, of Coconut Creek, FL. He loved the arts, fine literature, theater and travel. He devoted his life to helping his students, his patients, and providing encouragement and love to his family and friends. He will be greatly missed. Funeral services 11:30 AM, Wednesday, February 16, 2000, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave., Manhattan. Burial following at Mt. Zion Cemetery, Maspeth, NY. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests donations to the Metropolitan Museum of Art or a charity of choice.
      