
        SILBERMAN-Samuel J. On January 29. Beloved husband of Lois. Cherished father of Douglas, Allen, Rita Rothenberg, Alfred, Jayne and Peter. Grandfather of six. An innovative leader in philanthropic, civic and educational agencies, and in business. Visitation at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., 2-5 and 7-9 PM on Monday, January 31. Services 11 AM on Tuesday, February 1 at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. at 65th St. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions to the charity of your choice would be appreciated.
        SILBERMAN-Samuel J. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the loss of Samuel J. Silberman, a beloved leader whose contributions to the Jewish community will be felt for generations to come. He earned enormous admiration and respect for shaping the direction of our successful capital efforts in the late 1980s. From 1966 to 1969, Mr. Silberman led our community with compassionate concern as president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, a predecessor of UJA-Federation of New York. He and his wife expressed their common devotion to Jewish and humanitarian causes through their exceptional support of The Jewish Home and Hospital, the YMYWHA of Mid-Westchester, and Camp Isabella Freedman. We deeply regret the loss of a cherished friend who will be greatly missed. On behalf of our entire community, we extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Lois; his children, Douglas, Allen, Rita Rothenberg, Alfred, Jayne, and Peter; and his six grandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        SILBERMAN-Samuel J. The entire Hunter College community is deeply saddened by the loss of a dear friend and generous benefactor. His far-seeing vision led him to use the Lois and Samuel Silberman Fund to construct the Hunter College School of Social Work on land formerly occupied by his family's townhouse. His interest in new teaching technologies also led him to establish Hunter's Distance Learning Program, which now trains city human-service workers and admininstrators in their offices. Although he received many honors, including the President's Medal and an honorary doctorate from Hunter, he was as humorous, caring and unassuming as he was generous, and he was loved by faculty and students alike. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Lois, his daughter Jayne, who was a member of the Social Work faculty, and to all the Silberman family. Hunter College David A. Caputo, President
        SILBERMAN-Samuel J. (Buddy). The Hunter College School of Social Work mourns the passing of Samuel J. Silberman. His extraordinary support for, and generosity toward, the Hunter College School of Social Work and Social Work education are unparalleled, including the construction of the School of Social Work at East 79th Street, endowed student scholarships, a Distance Learning Center, and a national awards program for social work educators. His concern, inspiration and leadership in responding to the needs of others are hallmarks of the great man that he was. We extend heartfelt condolences to this wife Lois, daughter Jayne, and all of his family. Bogart R. Leashore, Dean The Hunter College School of Social Work
        SILBERMAN-Samuel J. It is with sincere sorrow that we note the passing of our devoted friend Samuel ''Buddy'' Silberman, who, along with his beloved wife Lois, was an honorary member of the Hunter College Foundation Board of Trustees from its inception. He was honored as the Foundation's Man of the Year in 1995, but he was truly a man for all seasons. On behalf of all the members of the Board of Trustees, I extend our heartfelt sympathy to Lois Silberman, to their daughter Jayne, and to all the Silberman family. Allan H. Kurtzman, Chair The Hunter College Foundation
        SILBERMAN-Samuel. The Board and staff of The New York Community Trust mourn the passing of Samuel Silberman. His intelligent, passionate and generous commitment to New York City and its people reflected the best of philanthropy. Buddy's legacies-which include the Hunter College School of Social Work-will continue his special brand of charity. We will miss his counsel, his dedication and his humanity. Our thoughts are with Lois, Jayne and the rest of the family. William M. Evarts, Chairman Lorie A. Slutsky, President
        SILBERMAN-Samuel. The Hunter College School of Social Work is part of the glorious legacy of Buddy Silberman. We will always appreciate his compassion, integrity, intelligence and professionalism. He was a powerful presence in our careers as educators. Our deepest sympathies to Lois, Jayne and the Silberman family. E. Bromberg, R.Dobrof, C. Guzzetta, R. Holtzman P. Kurzman, M.Mailick E. Marshack, M. Rosenbloom R. Salmon, M. Sternberg F. Vigilante, H. Weissman
        SILBERMAN - Samuel (Buddy). The Council On Social Work Education mourns the passing of Samuel Buddy Silberman, a generous supporter and good friend of social work education. His genuine compassion and commitment to helping others was an inspiration to all. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family.
        SILBERMAN-Samuel (Buddy). A great man is gone. He will live forever as we remember the good man he was and the good he did. Our sympathies to our beloved friends Lois and Jayne and to all the Silberman family. The Board and Staff, The Brookdale Center on Aging, Hunter College
        SILBERMAN-Samuel J. Heartfelt condolences to Lois, Jayne and the family. Buddy was a cherished friend and colleague. He will be missed. Harold Lewis
      