
        ROSENTHAL-C. Julian, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, C. Julian Rosenthal, M.D., Chief of Oncology at our Kings Highway Division (KHD) and an attending physician at our partner institution, Long Island College Hospital. Dr. Rosenthal will forever be remembered for his tireless commitment to medical excellence and compassionate patient care. He will be greatly missed. To his wife Sanda, his children Lawrence and Irene, the entire Rosenthal family and all who loved him, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Board of Trustees Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO Henry Singman, M.D. President, Medical Board Robert L. Salant, M.D. President, Drs. Alumni Association Donald Ginsberg, M.D. Associate Medical Dir.-KHD Philip Schmidt, M.D., Pres. Medical Exec Committee-KHD John Byrne, Vice-President For Administration-KHD
        ROSENTHAL-C. Julian, MD. The Board of Regents and Administration of Long Island College Hospital joins the physicians and staff of the Department of Internal Medicine in mourning the passing of C. Julian Rosenthal, MD, Attending Physician in the Division of Oncology. Dr. Rosenthal served the hospital and its patients as a distinguished physician, teacher and researcher. To his wife and children, the entire Rosenthal family, and allof Dr. Rosenthal's loved ones, we extend our heartfelt condolences. John D. Wren, Chairman Board of Regents Allan Gibofsky, MD, JD, President and Chief Executive Officer Frank DiPillo, MD, Chairman, Department of Internal Medicine
        ROSENTHAL-C. Julian, MD. The Medical Staff of Long Island College Hospital acknowledges with sadness the passing of our esteemed friend and highly respected colleague, C. Julian Rosenthal, MD. To his wife Sanda and his children, and to all of Dr. Rosenthal's loved ones, we extend our deepest sympathy. The Medical Staff of Long Island College Hospital Jagdish K. Gupta, MD, President
      