
        WILSON-Malcolm, former Governor, State of New York, on March 13, 2000. Devoted husband of the late Katharine McCloskey Wilson. Devoted father of Kathy Wilson Conroy and Anne Wilson Matthews. Brother of the late Irene Wilson Baker, Donald C. Wilson and Mary Jane Wilson Couzens. Grandfather of Sean, Chris, Emmet, Brendan and Greg Conroy and David Matthews. Calling hours at The Fred H. McGrath &Son Funeral Home, Bronxville between the hours of 2 to 4 and 7 to 9 PM Tuesday and Wednesday. Mass of Christian burial Church of The Holy Family, New Rochelle, NY on Thursday March 16 at 10:30 AM. Interment Gate of Heaven Cemetery. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to The Malcolm Wilson Scholarship Fund, Fordham Prepatory School, East Fordham Rd, Bronx, New York 10458 or The Katharine McCloskey Wilson Scholarship Fund, Notre Dame School of Manhattan, 104 St. Mark's Place, New York, NY 10009
        WILSON-Malcolm, Governor. In his ode to statesmanship, 17th Century Thomas Dekker must have had Governor Wilson in mind: ''The best of men that ever wore earth about him was a sufferer, a soft, meek, patient, humble, tranquil spirit. The first gentleman that ever breathed!''. He lent legitimacy to government and elegance to the governed. In an era when the young were trampled underfoot in society's indifference, Malcolm Wilson stood so very tall in his dynamic concern for the troubled families and legions of the young who landed on the doorstep of Daytop Village. A huge part of his life is written in the grateful prayers of the rescued. His were the words of 12th Century St. Bernard: ''Prayer is a wine which makes glad the heart of man!''. May he rest with God! (Msgr.) William B. O'Brien, President Daytop Village, Inc.
        WILSON-Hon. Malcolm. Fordham University and the Board of Trustees mourn the loss of our colleague and loyal friend, Malcolm Wilson. A graduate of Fordham Preparatory School, Fordham College and the Fordham School of Law, Governor Wilson was among the first laymen appointed to Fordham's Board of Trustee in 1969. His Board service continued until he took the oath of office of the Governor and again later as Trustee Emeritus until his recent death. His concern and commitment to Fordham University as a Trustee and in many other roles will always be remembered. Our thoughts and prayers are with his daughters and their families. Paul B. Gunther Chair of the Board Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. President
        WILSON-Hon. Malcolm. The Board of Trustees of Saint Patrick's Cathedral records with sorrow the passing of Malcolm Wilson who has served as a Trustee of Saint Patrick's Cathedral for 21 years with great dedication, holding the offices of Vice President and Secretary of the Board, and also serving as Chairman of the standing committees and many ad hoc committees. His wisdom, leadership and wit will be sorely missed by the members of the Board. To his bereaved family we extend our heartfelt condolences. John Cardinal O'Connor, President Rev. Msgr. James K. Vaughey, Executive Director
        WILSON-Malcolm. The Board of Trustees and Directors of Pregnancy Care Center mourn the passing of a much admired, respected and esteemed friend. Governor Malcolm Wilson will be remembered for his tireless efforts and proven dedication to the rights of the ''Unborn''. An exemplary Christian man, whose compassion, humanity and warm sensitivity touched the lives of all New Yorkers. The Pregnancy Care Center
        WILSON-Malcolm. Fordham University School of Law records with great sorrow the passing of Governor Malcolm Wilson, one of its most distinguished graduates, Class of 1936, and a role model extraordinaire as a citizen of New York. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Our love and prayers are with them. John D. Feerick, Dean
        WILSON-Malcolm. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Malcolm Wilson, a Veteran Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, Pres. Henry F. White, Historian
      