
        COHEN-Estelle. Beloved daughter of the late Louis and Ida Kroman. Devoted and loving wife of the late Herbert Cohen. Loving and beloved mother of Stephen (Linda), Paul (Merri). Beloved grandmother of Jason, Lisa, Adam and Douglas. Loving sister of Shirley Saperstein and Muriel Sherman. Services Wednesday, 12 noon, at Schwartz Brothers, 114-03 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills.
        COHEN-Estelle. On March 5, 2000. Devoted mother of Stephen and Paul and mother-in-law of Linda and Meri. Loving sister of Shirley Saperstein and Muriel Sherman. Dear grandmother of Jason, Lisa, Adam and Douglas. Services Wednesday, 12 PM at Schwartz Brothers-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, 11403 Queens Boulevard, Forest Hills, NY.
        COHEN-Estelle (nee Kroman). Passed away on March 5, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Cohen. Devoted mother of Stephen R. Cohen and Paul S. Cohen, loving mother-in-law of Linda and Meri. Dedicated and loving grandmother of Lisa, Jason, Adam and Douglas. Beloved sister of Shirley Saperstein and the late Dr. Robert Saperstein of Floral Park, NY, Muriel Sherman and husband Louis of Delray Beach, FL, adored and loving aunt of John, Sharon, Michael, Glenn and Alan. The employees of Mallory and Church Corporation express their deepest sorrow at the passing of the mother of our President, Paul Cohen, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to the entire Cohen family. Estelle's gracious spirit and devotion to her family, friends and community will long be remembered. Services will be held on Wednesday, March 8, 2000, at 12 noon, Schwartz Brothers Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills, NY. Interment will follow at Cypress Hills Cemetery. The family will observe shiva on Wednesday, March 8, 2000, after 3:30 PM, and Thursday, March 9, 2000, 12-8 PM, at 30H Grand Central Parkway, Floral Park, NY.
        COHEN-Estelle. Grandma, we will always love you very much and cherish all the precious times we spent together. You will always remain in our hearts. All our love, Jason and Lisa Cohen
        COHEN-Estelle. To our Founder and retired Chairman and CEO, Stephen Cohen, our deepest sympathy. The Officers, Directors and Associates at the Netspeak Corp.
        COHEN-Estelle. Although you were my grandmother for a short time, I loved you and will miss you. Ricky Bernstein
        COHEN-Estelle. Dear Grandma, we love and miss you. Lisa and Jason
      