
        IRWIN II-John Nichol of New Canaan, CT. Died Monday, February 28, age 86. Attorney with Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler and former diplomat serving the Truman, Eisenhower, Johnson and Nixon Administrations. Mr. Irwin was Deputy Secretary of State from 1970-73 and Ambassador to France 1973-74. Born in Keokuk, IA, graduated Lawrenceville School, Princeton University, Oxford University and Fordham University. Mr. Irwin was married to Jane Watson until her death in 1970. On September 30, 1976 he married Jane G. Reimers. He is survived by his wife Jane, his children: Jane W.I. Droppa and John N. Irwin III, his stepsons: Watkins W. Reynolds III, Thomas B. Reynolds, and Carl D. Reimers III and 12 grandchildren. Throughout his life, Mr. Irwin was described as a modest, honest and caring man, and a wonderful listener. There will be a memorial service on Friday, March 10 at 2PM at the Brick Presbyterian Church, Park Ave and 91 Street in NYC. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to The Wildlife Conservation Society, Bronx Zoo, Bronx NY 10460, or the Presbyterian Church of New Canaan, 178 Oenoke Ridge, New Canaan, CT. 06840.
        IRWIN-John N. II. The Board of Directors and the Staff of the French American Foundation express their great sadness at the passing of their distinguished friend and Honorary Chairman. He was a founding Board Member of the Foundation and its Chairman for many years. His influence on the growth and strengthening of the Foundation have been formidable. He was a man of grace and intelligence who will be missed by all of us. We offer our deepest sympathy to Jane and to all of his family. John Negroponte, Chairman Michael Iovenko, President
        IRWIN-John N., II. The Directors of the Board and Staff of The Tinker Foundation express their deep sadness at the death of their colleague and friend, John N. Irwin II. His wise counsel and advice over the years has greatly benefited the foundation and its grantees. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Jane, his children, Jane and John, and to all members of his family. Martha T. Muse, Chairman, Board of Directors Renate Rennie, President
      