
        BERNSTEIN-Fay. In her 92nd year. Devoted wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother Naomi, Howard and the late Rachel. Dear mother-in-law of Paul Kronish, Marcy Bernstein and Alan Paul. Sister of Thelma, Sylvia and Helen. Mama Fay to her eight grandchildren and fifteen great-grandchildren. Her strength and love will be with us always. Service Wednesday, March 1, 1:15pm at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        BERNSTEIN-Fay. Mama Fay, the matriarch of our family, your blue eyes eternally shine in our hearts. May heaven be abundant with lilacs. The Kronish/Oestreich grandchildren and great-grandchildren
        BERNSTEIN-Fay. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Fay Bernstein, a dear and cherished friend who was deeply devoted to the Long Beach Women's Campaign. Her legacy lives on through the extraordinary philanthropic efforts of her beloved daughter and son-in-law, Naomi and Paul Kronish, dedicated members of our Board of Directors. Inspired by her mother's compassionate concern, Naomi served as chair of our Women's Campaign. We extend our sincerest condolences to Naomi and Paul; to Mrs. Bernstein's sonin-law, Alan Paul; her grandchildren; and her great-grandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        BERNSTEIN-Fay. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services notes with sorrow the death of Fay Bernstein, mother of Naomi Kronish. A dedicated member of our Advisory Committee on Family Violence. Our sincerest condolences to Naomi and her husband Paul, a JBFCS Trustee, and the entire family. Seymour R. Askin, Jr Chairman of the Board Joseph S. Kaplan, President Jean L. Troubh, Chair, Family Violence Advisory Committee Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive Vice President
        BERNSTEIN-Fay. We are all going to miss a beautiful lady. Our hearts go out to the Kronish family in their time of sorrow. The Corwin Family
      