
        ABRAM-Morris B. Funeral on Sunday, March 19, 3PM, Cape Cod Synagogue, 145 Winter Street, Hyannis, MA. Shiva thru Tuesday, March 21 at Abram home, 72 Whig St., Dennis, MA, and Wed, March 22, 3PM to Fri, March 24, 4PM at home of Ruth Abram and Herbert Teitelbaum, 110 Riverside Drive at West 83rd Street, Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, contributions to United Negro College Fund, Brandeis University, UN Watch.
        ABRAM-Morris B. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital are profoundly saddened by the passing of Ambassador Morris B. Abram, former Permanent Representative of the United States to the United Nations in Geneva, a brilliant lawyer, outstanding leader of the Jewish Community and an inspiring and compassionate man. A good friend of the Institution, who served as Advisor to four U.S. Presidents, Ambassador Abram delivered the Inaugural Address at the dedication of the I. M. Pei designed Guggenheim Pavilion of The Mount Sinai Hospital. He was also the recipient of the Committee of 1000 Award from the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Ambassador Abram was a longstanding advocate for the Institution and a respected leader in medical ethics. We will not see the likes of this giant again. We extend our condolences to his widow, Bruna Abram in Geneva, and to his children and grandchildren in the United States. Helene L. Kaplan, Chairman Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chairman The Mount Sinai Hospital John W. Rowe, M.D., President Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh., Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        ABRAM-Morris B. Yeshiva University and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law mourn the passing of a longtime friend, distinguished attorney, champion of human rights around the world, and leader of the Jewish community, who served the University for more than a quarter-century with selfless devotion. Founding chairman of Cardozo's Board of Directors-and continuing as honorary member-he provided visionary guidance to the law school during its critical early years. An honorary alumnus, he was chairman of YU's former Board of Governors of the Graduate Schools. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Bruna; children, Morris Berthold Jr., J. Adam, Joshua A., Ann, and Ruth J.; brother, Dr. Lewis Abram; sister, Ruthann Reis; grandchildren; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Earle I. Mack, Chairman CSL Board of Directors
        ABRAM-Morris B. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Morris B. Abram, a great Civil Rights advocate and dedicated Jewish leader. Morris was an activist with ADL's Southern Regional Office in the 1940s and 50s, fighting racism and anti-semitism. He was a staunch supporter of the State of Israel and the Jewish people and worked tirelessly on behalf of Soviet Jews. ADL's Joseph Prize for Human Rights was presented to Morris in October 1999. His legacy of activism will always be with us. We extend our condolences to his wife, Bruna and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        ABRAM-Morris B. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of its beloved and esteemed past chairman, Ambassador Morris B. Abram. He served his country, his people and all of humanity with dedication and distinction. He was a leader with few peers. His wise counsel, foresight and passion for justice will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife and children and pray they will be comforted by the memories of his remarkable life and the impact of his innumerable contributions which live on. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Malcolm I. Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        ABRAM-Morris B. The National Conference on Soviet Jewry (NCSJ), its officers, Executive Committee, Board of Governors and staff mourn the loss of our former Chairman, a giant in the Jewish world and leading pioneer for civil rights in the U.S. and human rights worldwide, whose leadership and moral guidance never ceased. He led and inspired the Soviet Jewry movement in the U.S. during its most critical phase, from 1983 to 1988. Condolences to his widow, Bruna, and the entire family. Denis C. Braham, Chairman Howard E. Sachs, President Mark B. Levin, Executive Director
        ABRAM-Morris. We were privileged to have known Morris Abram when he was a member of the Board of Yeshiva University. ''There was a man...'' Linda and Abby Belkin
      