
        IRWIN II-John Nichol of New Canaan, CT. Died Monday, February 28, age 86. Attorney with Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler and former diplomat serving the Truman, Eisenhower, Johnson and Nixon Administrations. Mr. Irwin was Deputy Secretary of State from 1970-73 and Ambassador to France 1973-74. Born in Keokuk, IA, graduated Lawrenceville School, Princeton University, Oxford University and Fordham University. Mr. Irwin was married to Jane Watson until her death in 1970. On September 30, 1976 he married Jane G. Reimers. He is survived by his wife Jane, his children: Jane W.I. Droppa and John N. Irwin III, his stepsons: Watkins W. Reynolds III, Thomas B. Reynolds, and Carl D. Reimers III and 12 grandchildren. Throughout his life, Mr. Irwin was described as a modest, honest and caring man, and a wonderful listener. There will be a memorial service on Friday, March 10 at 2PM at the Brick Presbyterian Church, Park Ave and 91 Street in NYC. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to The Wildlife Conservation Society, Bronx Zoo, Bronx NY 10460, or the Presbyterian Church of New Canaan, 178 Oenoke Ridge, New Canaan, CT. 06840.
        IRWIN-John N. II. The Board of Directors, faculty, and staff of Union Theological Seminary in the City of New York express their deep condolences at the death of a long-term friend and supporter, who was a board member from 1953 to 1970. Serving as chair of the Seminary's Board of Directors during the turbulent decade 1961 to 1970, Jack Irwin's irenic leadership was invaluable. Always a devoted person of faith, he made himself accessible to students, understood and sympathized with their legitimate concerns, and at the same time reassured the faculty, the board and the public with his great good judgment and good faith. He supported the Seminary's outreach to minorities and the right of students and faculty to free speech, even when unpopular. The Seminary expresses its profound indebtedness to John Irwin, both for his leadership and his example. Our deepest sympathies and prayers for his wife, Jane; son, John III, and daughter, Jane, and their families. Anne Hale Johnson Chair of the Board of Directors The Rev. Dr. Joseph C. Hough, Jr. President
        IRWIN-John N., II. The trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of their distinguished colleague and friend, Jack Irwin, who was an ardent supporter of the Metropolitan for more than 30 years. A trustee beginning in 1969, he served on many Museum committees, including the legal committee and the visiting committees to the departments of Asian art and 20thcentury art, and to the Thomas J. Watson Library. He was a generous donor who became a benefactor of the Metropolitan in 1972 and a trustee emeritus in 1987. His depth of knowledge, wise judgement and dedication earned him the respect of all who knew him. We extend our condolences to his widow Jane and his entire family. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director David E. McKinney, President
        IRWIN II-John N. The Board of Trustees of the American Museum of Natural History expresses its profound sense of loss at the death of John N. Irwin II. Mr. Irwin joined the Museum's Board in 1989, and was elected an Honorary Trustee in 1994. The Museum is grateful for his years of wise and dedicated service and expresses its appreciation to Mr. Irwin and his family for their consistent and generous support. To his wife Jane, his children Jane and John, and the entire Irwin family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. Anne Sidamon-Eristoff, Chairman, Board of Trustees Ellen V. Futter, President
        IRWIN-John Nichol II. The staff and directors of the Henry Luce Foundation are deeply saddened by the death of the husband of their director colleague, Jane German Irwin and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her and to all of their family. Henry Luce III, Chairman John W. Cook, President
      