
        ABRAM-Morris B. The American Jewish Committee, the international Jewish community, and all people everywhere who hope for a better world, have lost a cherished friend, a powerful advocate for freedom and justice, and a man of profound moral integrity and enormous human kindness with the passing of Ambassador Morris Abram. Since his early days as President of AJC's Atlanta Chapter from 1955-1957, through his role as AJC National President from 1963-1968, and most recently as Honorary President and Founding Chairman of UN Watch, AJC has always been extraordinarily proud and grateful for his leadership, wisdom, and friendship. His active association with AJC, including as an eloquent advocate for Jewish interests and causes and as a champion of the oppressed, helped to shape the work of our agency through tumultuous decades. A brilliant lawyer and diplomat with heartfelt convictions and principles, Morris changed the course of human history in the 20th century in education, law, civil rights and human rights, at home and abroad. A tireless warrior against the evils of anti-Semitism, racism and all forms of intolerance, he was appointed to posts by five American Presidents, most recently as US Permanent Representative to the UN in Geneva. Through his work with UN Watch, he passionately sought to fulfill Israel's quest for a rightful place in the family of nations. When AJC honored Morris in December, 1999 with our National Distinguished Leadership Award, international leaders came out in full force to pay much deserved tribute to this giant among men, including UN Secretary General Kofi Annan who rightfully described Morris as ''a global citizen of the first rank.'' Morris Abram was a man who believed that one person could make a difference, and then did. His legacy will be an inspiration for generations to come. We send our deepest condolences to his wife Bruna, his children, grandchildren and the rest of the grieving family. Bruce M. Ramer, President David A. Harris, Exec. Director
        World Jewish Congress sadly records the passing of Ambassador Morris Abram, one of the giants of American Jewish leadership in the struggle for civil rights in America and abroad. Long associated with WJC, Ambassador Abram left his mark on American history as educator, diplomat, human rights advocate and activist for causes which advance the goals of peace and justice. He remained as head of the UN Watch, which he founded for the WJC, and we pause to salute his enormous accomplishments there. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Edgar M. Bronfman, President Israel Singer, Secretary General Eveyln Sommer, Chairman, American Section Elan Steinberg, Executive Director
        ABRAM-Morris. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the death of Morris B. Abram, our friend, partner and council for almost 40 years. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife Bruna, and children Ruth, Ann, Morris Jr, Adam and Joshua, and other members of his family.
      