
        SEIDMAN-Pauline (Levin). Of Bloomfield, CT. Formerly of NYC and Stamford, Ct. Died March 13, 2000. Board member of the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Foundation for more than 40 years and a life Board member. She served as President of the Town League of the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center for several decades. The Town League headed up the volunteer effort at the Center. In 1996 she was guest of honor at the annual dinner of the Center at the Plaza Hotel, which was attended by more than 650 people. She was predeceased by her husband William and son Sanford. Survived by nephew Richard Seidman and his wife Susan, grand-nephews Richard Seidman, Jr. and his wife, Sharlene. Robert Seidman and his wife Susanne, Charles Seidman and grand-niece Elizabeth Seidman. Also survived by a cousin, Barbara Turner and her husband Harvey. Funeral services Thursday, 11:30AM at Riverside Chapels, 76th and Amsterdam. Memorial contributions may be made to the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Foundation, 1276 50th Street, Solomon Plaza, Suite A, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11219, or the Hartford Foundation for Public Giving, 85 Gillett Street, Hartford, CT. 06105. For more information contact Weinstein Mortuary, 860-233-2675.
        SEIDMAN-Pauline L. The Officers and Directors of Metropolitan Jewish Health System, sadly mourn the untimely passing of Pauline L. Seidman, beloved member of the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center (MJGC) Board for more than sixty years, the President of The Town League, and a devoted friend and ardent supporter. Her involvement with our organization dates back to 1935. An orginal member of The Board of Directors of The Brooklyn Hebrew Home and Hospital For The Aged in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, Pauline held virturally every elected office at MJGC, other than the Presidency. As late as 1996, Pauline was the MJGC Guest of Honor at its Annual Dinner at The Plaza Hotel. She will be greatly missed. May her her legacy act as a source of inspiration to all those whom she touched. Our profound sympathy and sincere condolences to the family. Howard F. Sharfstein, Chairman of the Board Eli S. Feldman, President, CEO
      