
        ABRAM-Morris B. Funeral on Sunday, March 19, 3PM, Cape Cod Synagogue, 145 Winter Street, Hyannis, MA. Shiva thru Tuesday, March 21 at Abram home, 72 Whig St., Dennis, MA, and Wed, March 22, 3PM to Fri, March 24, 4PM at home of Ruth Abram and Herbert Teitelbaum, 110 Riverside Drive at West 83rd Street, Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, contributions to United Negro College Fund, Brandeis University, UN Watch.
        ABRAM-Morris B. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital are profoundly saddened by the passing of Ambassador Morris B. Abram, former Permanent Representative of the United States to the United Nations in Geneva, a brilliant lawyer, outstanding leader of the Jewish Community and an inspiring and compassionate man. A good friend of the Institution, who served as Advisor to four U.S. Presidents, Ambassador Abram delivered the Inaugural Address at the dedication of the I. M. Pei designed Guggenheim Pavilion of The Mount Sinai Hospital. He was also the recipient of the Committee of 1000 Award from the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Ambassador Abram was a longstanding advocate for the Institution and a respected leader in medical ethics. We will not see the likes of this giant again. We extend our condolences to his widow, Bruna Abram in Geneva, and to his children and grandchildren in the United States. Helene L. Kaplan, Chairman Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chairman The Mount Sinai Hospital John W. Rowe, M.D., President Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh., Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        ABRAM-Morris B. The Jacob Blaustein Institute for the Advancement of Human Rights of the American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the sudden death of Ambassador Morris B. Abram, who served as the first Chair of its administrative council, 1971-75. During those pioneering years, he devoted his distinguished talents to the Institute's ongoing efforts to utilize international human rights norms to safeguard the rights of Soviet Jews and citizens in emerging democracies, to strengthen the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, to encourage U.S. ratification of human rights treaties, and to confront human rights abuses globally. Deepest condolences to Morris's wife, Bruna, and to his children and grandchildren. Robert S. Rifkind, Chair Felice D. Gaer, Director
        ABRAM-Morris B. The entire Brandeis University community mourns the passing of Ambassador Morris B. Abram, the second president of Brandeis, a tireless advocate for civil rights and human rights, a towering figure in the American Jewish community, an advisor to five presidents, and a distinguished lawyer. He leaves an enduring legacy of battling intolerance, bigotry, and anti-Semitism. Brandeis University values his long association with the University and his deep commitment to its mission. In 1998, he helped mark the University's fiftieth anniversary with an address on human rights. Brandeis extends its condolences to his wife Bruna (Molina), his two daughters, his three sons, his stepson and stepdaughter, his sister, brother, and nine grandchildren.
        ABRAM-Morris B. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of its beloved and esteemed past chairman, Ambassador Morris B. Abram. He served his country, his people and all of humanity with dedication and distinction. He was a leader with few peers. His wise counsel, foresight and passion for justice will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife and children and pray they will be comforted by the memories of his remarkable life and the impact of his innumerable contributions which live on. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Malcolm I. Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        ABRAM-Morris. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the death of Morris B. Abram, our friend, partner and counsel for almost 40 years. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife Bruna, and children Ruth, Ann, Morris Jr, Adam and Joshua, and other members of his family.
        ABRAM-Morris B. The staff and Publication Committee of Commentary mourn the death of their tireless supporter and colleague, a champion of Israel and the Jewish people, a stalwart and never-failing friend. Neal Kozodoy, Editor Robert L. Pelz, Chairman, Publication Committee
      