
        MARCUS-Lilian Kaplan. Beloved wife of the late Ben S. Marcus, devoted mother of Judith (Alan) Chyten and Ina Ross, adored Sabta of Marc, Robin, Richard, Kimberly, Stan, David and Jonathan. Treasured great grandmother of Eric Marcus and Lindsay Nicole Ross, Stephanie Elyse and Matthew Brian Pilavin. Sister of Dr. Louis Kaplan (and the late Esther Sabbah, Hannah Marcus, Dr. Nathan Kaplan). She was a woman of extraordinary intelligence and commitment: to her family, whom she nurtured and supported, to Hadassah, serving on the L.I. Board and writing a Hebrew column for the Nat'l magazine, to United Jewish Appeal where she served as co-chair of Greater New York Women's Division and on the Speakers Bureau, to the founding and support of Jewish Education with her husband: Shenkar Textile College in Israel, the Lilian & Ben Marcus pre-school in Jerusalem and the David Posnack School in Florida. She served on the New York Board of Jewish Education, the America-Israel Cultural Foundation, CLAL, the Hillcrest Jewish Center. All who knew her respected her intellectual ability and generosity of self. A lady of grace, dignity and elegance who filled our lives with love and beauty. She will be missed because she is irreplaceable. May G-d bless and keep both Lilian and Ben. May their souls be bound up in the Book of Life. Graveside services will be held at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY on Sunday, March 26, at 2:30 PM. Shiva will be at the home of Ina Ross, 37 Somerset Drive South, Great Neck, NY
        MARCUS-Lilian. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Lilian Marcus, a cherished friend and beloved leader who has touched the lives of countless individuals through her dedication and support. Sharing the philanthropic concerns of her late husband, Ben, a prominent leader in the Jewish community, she co-chaired the Women's Campaign of UJA-Federation's predecessor, the United Jewish Appeal, in 1972. She expressed her devotion to our cherished traditions as a member of the Hillcrest Jewish Center. We extend our sincerest condolences to her daughters, Judith Chyten and Ina Ross; her 7 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO Sandra F. Cahn, Chair, Women's Campaign
        MARCUS-Lilian. The Board of Directors, Administration, Faculty, Parents and Students, note with sadness the passing of our friend and benefactor Lilian Marcus. Lilian and her late husband, Ben Marcus were lifelong supporters of Jewish education and central figures in supporting the David Posnack Hebrew Day School through A period of major growth, helping to establish The Ben and Lilian Marcus Building & Campus in Plantation, FL. Lilian and Ben shared a long and distinguished record of communal and philanthropic service to the entire Jewish community. Lilian will be remembered for her commitment and devotion to Jewish education and will always remain close to our hearts. We join with her family in mourning her loss.
        MARCUS-Lilian K. The American Committee for Shenkar College in Israel records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed board member, Lilian, who, with her husband Ben S. Marcus, founded Shenkar College. We extend our condolences to her daughters, Ina Ross, Judith Chyten and their families. David Pernick Chairman, Shenkar College Prof. Amotz Weinberg, President Nahum G. Shar President, American Committee Charlotte A. Fainblatt, Exec. Dir.
      