
        KELLA-Polly Jane Curtis, 80, passed away on March 10, 2000, in Seattle, WA. Polly was deeply devoted to the world of classical music, the history of Seattle, WA and the memory of her father, Asahel Curtis. She is survived by Kathleen Kella Ferris & John (Jake) Kella. Devoted wife of John James (Jack) Kella (deceased). Dear friend of Jerry Price of Seattle. Grandmother to Jonathan Kirkland Ferris, Kristen Joy Ferris and John William Edward Kella. Polly was the youngest daughter of Asahel Curtis, famed photographer of the Pacific Northwest, early conservationist and co-founder of the Mountaineers' Club. Polly contributed greatly to the Washington State History Museum's exhibit ''Golden Dreams: The Quest for the Klondike,'' featuring Asahel Curtis' photographs of the great Yukon Gold Rush of 1897. Polly's uncle, Edward S. Curtis, was the renowned photographer of American Indians. Edward Curtis' 20-volume opus called ''The North American Indian'' was a watershed study of more than 80 Native-American nations from Mexico to Alaska. Completed in 1930, this enormous project has been hailed as one of the finest works of photographic anthropology ever accomplished. Polly's love of music began early in her life in Seattle, where she graduated from the Cornish School of Music and studied with the noted music teacher, Madame Ingbert. Polly frequently gave concerts of chamber music in the Northwest and was a featured performer on the Alaska Steamship Line. During her time at sea, she met Jack Kella, whom she married in 1942. They moved to Honolulu, Hawaii, where they raised Kathy and Jake. Polly performed with the Honolulu Symphony Orchestra for more than 30 years. She also founded the International Strings, which provided chamber music performances to schools, hospitals, senior citizen homes and other under-served areas of society. Following the passing of her husband Jack in 1985, Polly moved back to Seattle and lived with her dear friend since childhood, Jerry Price, who survives her. Polly continued to enjoy music in Seattle, and performed with the Bellevue Orchestra from 1986 to 1996. Services for Polly were held at the University Congregational United Church of Christ in Seattle, WA. Polly's warmth, compassion and dedication will be greatly missed by all those who loved her.
      