
        SCHONFELD - Hildegard. The Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Community Center on the Palisades deeply mourn the loss of Hilde Schonfeld, a beloved member and supporter of the JCC community, and devoted wife of longtime Board of Trustees member Sidney Schonfeld. Hilde was particularly influential at the JCC in her involvement with the Holocaust Memorial, SeniorNet, the Cultural and Visual Arts committees, and the planning of special events at the Center. All at the JCC were indeed blessed to know Hilde, a true woman of valor whose dedication and generosity enriched our lives tremendously. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to Sid; daughter, Victoria; son, Gary, and the entire Schonfeld family. May the Lord comfort them among all the mourners of Zion. Nancy I. Brown, President Avi A. Lewinson, Exec. Director
        SCHONFELD-Hildegard. The Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of UJA Federation of Bergen County & North Hudson extends its deepest sympathy to our dear friend and dedicated Trustee, Sidney Schonfeld, on the passing of his beloved wife, Hildegard. May her memory be a blessing to Sidney and the entire Schonfeld family. Eva Lynn Gans, President Ron B. Meier, Executive VP
        SCHONFELD-Hilde. The Officers and Members of The Board of Governors of The Jewish Home and Rehabilitation Center and The Jewish Home at Rockleigh, note with profound sorrow the passing of Hilde Schonfeld. We extend our deepest sympathies to her husband, Sidney, our dear and valued friend, and their entire family. May her name be for a blessing. Carl Epstein, President Charles P. Berkowitz, Exec V.P.
        SCHONFELD-Hilde. We, The Board and Staff of Jewish Family Service of Bergen County, mourn the loss of our dear friend, Hilde Schonfeld, a gracious and generous woman. Our deepest sympathies to her husband, Sid, our devoted Board Member, and her entire family. Melinda Maidens, President Leah Nadich Meir, Exec V.P.
        SCHONFELD - Hildegard. We mourn the loss of a dear friend and neighbor, Hilde Schonfeld. A woman of rare grace, discernment, courage, and compassion, she illuminated and enriched every life she touched. David and Joanna Sachar
      