
        SEIDEMAN-Emanuel (Manny), at age 83, after a valiant struggle. A compassionate man filled with humor, kindness and optimism. Survived by his loving wife, Ruth of 62 years. Dearest respected father to Ellen and Larry, Barbara and Peter, Lisa and Charles; most adored grandfather to Michael, Bonnie and Brad, Wendy and Stewart, Abby, Zachary and Todd; affectionate great-grandfather to Jake. We all love you and you will be missed. Services Thursday, 12 Noon, at Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, 114-03 Queens Blvd., corner 76 Road, Forest Hill.
        SEIDEMAN-Emanuel. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation extends heartfelt sympathies to Trustee Peter Seideman and his family on the passing of his beloved father, Emanuel Seideman. A long standing Parker Trustee, Manny will be remembered for his invaluable contributions to the Institute. To Manny's wife, Ruth, and to Peter, Charles and Ellen and their families, our sincerest condolences, and may your memories of him comfort you at this difficult time. Funeral services will be held Thursday, March 23 at 10:30 AM at Schwartz Brothers, 114-03 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills. David Taub, Chairman of Board Steven J. Frome Alan J. Saperstein Interim Co-Presidents
        SEIDEMAN-Emanuel. The Board of Governors and members of the Boca Rio Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member and former Board member, Emanuel Seideman, and beloved husband of Ruth. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Boca Rio Golf Club Ira J. Gelb, M.D., President
        SEIDEMAN-Manny. A dear friend much loved by family and friends. Our friendship these last 50 years meant so much. Ruth, may your memories be a source of comfort and our caring make your sorrow easier to bear. Our deepest condolences to Ruth and the family. Norma and Jack Parker and Pearl Green
        SEIDEMAN-Emanuel. You were the best grandfather we could ever have. We will love you and miss you forever. Michael, Bonnie, Brad, Abby, Wendy, Stewart, Zachary, Todd and great-grandson, Jake.
        SEIDEMAN-Emanuel. Our brother, not brother-in-law. Generous, loving, caring. We will miss him terribly. Zelda Hirsch, Helene and Harold Schulman, and nieces & nephews
        SEIDEMAN-Emanuel. Our heartfelt sympathy to Ruth and their family. We shall miss Manny's warmth, humor, kindness, his love and devotion. Doris and Murray Felton
      