
        MACKLER-Alfred. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Helen Mackler, on the passing of her beloved husband. Through his service as a Trustee of the Joseph Alexander Foundation and as a Diamond Founder of the Medical Center, together with his wife, he personified the highest standards of tzedakah and chesed. The people of Jerusalem were the beneficiaries of his kind heart and compassion. May Helen, children, Harvey, Scott and Randi, grandchildren and the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. for Shaare Zedek Med. Ctr. in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, Pres. Stuart Tauber, Exec. Dir.
        MACKLER-Alfred. Beth Hatefutsoth, The Museum of the Jewish Diaspora and its American Friends mourn the loss of our dear friend and benefactor. His guidance and support will be greatly missed. We extend our most heartfelt sympathy to his wife Helen and their children. We shall always remember his friendship and good deeds for so many Jewish causes. Stephen M. Greenberg, President Sam Bloch, Chairman Gloria Golan, Director American Friends of Beth Hatefutsoth David Alexander, Dir. General Beth Hatefutsoth
        MACKLER-Alfred. It is with profound sorrow that the World Union for Progressive Judaism mourns the loss of our esteemed friend, partner and benefactor. May God grant strength and comfort amongst the mourners of Zion to his beloved wife Helen and to his cherished family. His warmth, kindness, generosity and friendship will be truly missed. May his memory be for a blessing. Austin Beutel, Chairman Rabbi Richard A. Block, President Rabbi Richard G. Hirsch, Honorary Life President
        MACKLER-Alfred. The National Jewish Outreach Program (NJOP) mourns the passing of Alfred Mackler, beloved friend and devoted supporter who together with his beloved wife, Helen, and the Joseph Alexander Foundation played a crucial role in NJOP's efforts to assure a bright Jewish future for American Jewry. Sincere condolences to the entire family. Yehi Zichro Baruch. Rabbi Ephraim Z. Buchwald, Dir.
        MACKLER-Alfred. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York and its Task Force on Missionaries and Cults mourn the passing of longtime benefactor and friend, Al Mackler. May his wife Helen, his children and grandchildren be comforted among the morners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gedale B. Horowitz, Pres., JCRC Michael S. Miller, Exec.VP, JCRC Dr. Philip Abramowitz, Dir., TFMC
        MACKLER-Alfred. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the death of Alfred Mackler. His staunch support of JTS through the Joseph Alexander Foundation will long be remembered and appreciated. May his memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Chairman
        MACKLER-Alfred. Ohr Torah Stone Institutions of Israel mourns with great sorrow the passing of a devoted friend and generous benefactor, Al Mackler. May the Almighty comfort Helen, his children and grandchildren among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Shlomo Riskin, Chancellor
      