
        COHEN-Estelle. Beloved daughter of the late Louis and Ida Kroman. Devoted and loving wife of the late Herbert Cohen. Loving and beloved mother of Stephen (Linda), Paul (Merri). Beloved grandmother of Jason, Lisa, Adam and Douglas. Loving sister of Shirley Saperstein and Muriel Sherman. Services Wednesday, 12 noon, at Schwartz Brothers, 114-03 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills.
        COHEN-Estelle (nee Kroman). Passed away on March 5, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Cohen. Devoted mother of Stephen R. Cohen and Paul S. Cohen, loving mother-in-law of Linda and Meri. Dedicated and loving grandmother of Lisa, Jason, Adam and Douglas. Beloved sister of Shirley Saperstein and the late Dr. Robert Saperstein of Floral Park, NY, Muriel Sherman and husband Louis of Delray Beach, FL, adored and loving aunt of John, Sharon, Michael, Glenn and Alan. The employees of Mallory and Church Corporation express their deepest sorrow at the passing of the mother of our President, Paul Cohen, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to the entire Cohen family. Estelle's gracious spirit and devotion to her family, friends and community will long be remembered. Services will be held on Wednesday, March 8, 2000, at 12 noon, Schwartz Brothers Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills, NY. Interment will follow at Cypress Hills Cemetery. The family will observe shiva on Wednesday, March 8, 2000, after 3:30 PM, and Thursday, March 9, 2000, 12-8 PM, at 30H Grand Central Parkway, Floral Park, NY.
        COHEN-Estelle (nee Kroman). A wonderful and very dear person and a cherished friend who will be sorely missed. Elinor Wohl and the entire Wohl family
        COHEN-Estelle. Condolences to my son-in-law Stephen, Linda, Jason and Lisa. She will be greatly missed for her warmth, humor and generous spirit. Henrietta Eisenberg,
        COHEN-Estelle. A loving, kind and generous woman who will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt sympathy to Stephen, Linda, Jason, Lisa and the entire Cohen family. The Hildebrand family
        COHEN-Estelle. A lovely woman who will be remembered for her warmth and kindness. Our sincere sympathy to Stephen, Linda, and the Cohen family. Robert and Robin Kennedy
        COHEN-Estelle. To our Founder and retired Chairman and CEO, Stephen Cohen, our deepest sympathy. The Officers, Directors and Associates at the Netspeak Corp.
        COHEN-Estelle. Boca Raton Community Hospital expresses their sincere condolences to Stephen Cohen on the loss of his mother.
        COHEN-Estelle. Although you were my grandmother for a short time, I loved you and will miss you. Ricky Bernstein
        COHEN-Estelle. Dear Grandma, we love and miss you. Lisa and Jason
      