
        SUSSMAN-Leon, M.D. The leadership of Beth Israel Medical Center and its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, acknowledges with great sadness the passing or our longtime friend and colleague, Leon Sussman, M.D., who dedicated himself to Beth Israel for almost sixty years. As a nationally recognized hematologist, Dr Sussman advanced the science of blood banking with such ground-breaking developments as ambulatory transfusion, paternity testing and autologous blood donation. He established Beth Israel's blood bank in 1946 among the country's first hospital-based, self-sustaining blood bank facilities and named the Dr. Leon and Ruth Sussman Transfusion Service in 1992. His foresight and expertise, as well as his extraordinary philanthropic support of the Medical Center, has helped us provide our patients with outstanding programs and services. His teaching of countless residents and medical students will ensure that his legacy endures. We all will miss him greatly. To his beloved wife, Ruth, his children and grandchildren, and all who loved him, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Boards of Trustees Continuum and Beth Israel Robert G. Newman, M.D. President and CEO, Continuum Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO, Beth Israel Stefanie Steel Vice President for Development, Beth Israel
        SUSSMAN-Leon, M.D. It is with deep sadness that the entire medical community of Beth Israel Medical Center notes the passing of our beloved colleague, Leon Sussman, M.D. whose years of service and dedication to our patients spanned almost sixty years. Dr. Sussman will forever be remembered in the medical community for his pioneering work in the field of blood banking, and for his tireless dedication to the education of future physicians. We extend our sympathies to his wife Ruth, his entire family, and all his loved ones. Henry Singman, M.D. President Medical Board Robert L. Salant, M.D. President Doctors Alumni Assoc Stephen G. Baum, M.D. Chairman, Dept of Medicine Neville Colman, M.D., Ph. D. Chairman, Dept of Diagnostic Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Steven H. Horowitz, M.D. Chief, Medical Cardiology Vijay Shah, M.D. Director Ralph Gore Blood Bank
      