
        MARCUS-Lilian Kaplan. Beloved wife of the late Ben S. Marcus, devoted mother of Judith (Alan) Chyten and Ina Ross, adored Sabta of Marc, Robin, Ricky, Kimberly, Stan, David and Jonathan. Treasured great grandmother of Eric Marcus and Lindsay Nicole Ross, Stephanie Elyse and Matthew Brian Pilavin. Sister of Dr. Louis Kaplan (and the late Esther Sabbah, Hannah Marcus, Dr. Nathan Kaplan). She was a woman of extraordinary intelligence and commitment: to her family, whom she nurtured and supported, to Hadassah, serving on the L.I. Board and writing a Hebrew column for the Nat'l magazine, to United Jewish Appeal where she served as co-chair of Greater New York Women's Division and on the Speakers Bureau, to the founding and support of Jewish Education with her husband: Shenkar Textile College in Israel, the Lilian & Ben Marcus pre-school in Jerusalem and the David Posnack School in Florida. She served on the New York Board of Jewish Education, the America-Israel Cultural Foundation, CLAL, the Hillcrest Jewish Center. All who knew her respected her intellectual ability and generosity of self. A lady of grace, dignity and elegance who filled our lives with love and beauty. She will be missed because she is irreplaceable. May G-d bless and keep both Lilian and Ben. May their souls be bound up in the Book of Life. Graveside services will be held at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY on Sunday, March 26, at 2:30 PM. Shiva will be at the home of Ina Ross, 37 Somerset Drive South, Great Neck, NY
        MARCUS-Lilian. The Directors and the staff of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York record with deep sorrow the death of Mrs. Lilian Marcus. Mrs. Marcus was a member of the BJE Board for over two decades and made significant contributions to Jewish Education throughout her lifetime. May her children and the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Avrom I. Doft, President Chaim Lauer, Executive VP Philip Schatten, Chairman of the Board
        MARCUS-Lilian. The Board of the America-Israel Cultural Foundation of which Lilian was a loyal and generous member together with Ben for thirty-five years, shares their loss with her family. Vera Stern, President
      