
        PHILLIPS-Madelyn S. Madelyn Phillips passed away peacefully and comfortably in her home last Friday, March 3. Born in 1905, raised in Brooklyn, and educated at Cornell and Adelphi. She married Seymour J. Phillips in 1924. She was a helpmate to her beloved husband throughout his business career at Phillips-Van Heusen and his involvement with Beth Israel Medical Center. She hosted an annual party for the graduating class of nurses at her home for many decades. She raised two children, Carol P. Green and Lawrence S. Phillips and shared the thrill of the birth of Carol's three children, Cathy, Douglas and Janet, and Larry's two children, Laura and David. Despite her advanced years, she presided over an annual Passover Seder in her home. Each year the attendees increased as her grandchildren entered the world. Madelyn Phillips is survived by her two children, Carol Green and Larry Phillips, five grandchildren, Cathy, Douglas, Janet, Laura and David, and six great-grandchildren, Michelle and Victoria Starr, Kristine and Matthew Mikkelsen and Joseph and Alexandra Black. Memorial services will be held at a later date. The memory of Madelyn Phillips would be enhanced if contributions would be made to the Nurses' Scholarship Fund of Beth Israel Medical Center, 16th St. and 1st Avenue, New York, NY 10003.
        PHILLIPS-Madelyn S. The family and friends will gather at her home to celebrate her life Thursday, March 9, between 5-7 PM.
        PHILLIPS-Madelyn S. It is with profound sorrow that the Board of Trustees and Administration of Beth Israel Medical Center join with its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging the passing of our dear friend Madelyn S. Phillips. Together with her husband, the late Seymour J. Phillips, a devoted Beth Israel Trustee, Mrs. Phillips supported a number of Beth Israel programs, including the Phillips Beth Israel School of Nursing and the Phillips Health Sciences Library. She also made extraordinarily generous gifts that helped to establish the Phillips Ambulatory Care Center and the Phillips Family Practice. These contributions reflect the more than 100 year tradition of philanthropy to Beth Israel by this exceptional family, a legacy which continues into this new century. We are truly indebted to Mrs. Phillips and will forever remember her as a gentle, kind and caring member of the Beth Israel family. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to her daughter, Trustee Carol P. Green, her son, Beth Israel benefactor Lawrence S. Phillips, the entire Phillips family and all who loved her. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Boards of Trustees Beth Israel and Continuum Robert G. Newman, MD President, Continuum Matthew E. Fink, MD President, Beth Israel Harry D. Fischer, MD Chief, Rheumatology Henry Singman, MD President, Medical Board Jane G. Blumenfeld, CFRE VP for Trustee Relations and Advancement
        PHILLIPS - Madelyn S. The Trustees Committee, faculty and students of the Phillips Beth Israel School of Nursing join the entire Beth Israel Medical Center family in mourning the passing of Madelyn Phillips, whose unstinting support furthered the education and training of countless nurses and made the school the strong, highly regarded institution it is today. For her dedication and generosity, we will be forever grateful. Our deepest sympathy to her children and all her family and friends. Irving D. Karpas, Jr. Chairman, Phillips Beth Israel School of Nursing Cynthia Chesner, RN, MA, EdD Dean, Phillips Beth Israel School of Nursing Rose M. Hauer, RN, MA Dean Emerita, Phillips Beth Israel School of Nursing
        PHILLIPS-Madelyn S. Madelyn Phillips will be forever remembered by the physicans, nurses, residents and staff of the Phillips Ambulatory Care Center and the Phillips Family Practice. These two centers of excellence were made possible through the generosity and support of Mrs. Phillips and her family. Our appreciation for her contributions to our efforts will never waiver. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Phillips family.
      