
        LIPMAN-Samuel. On March 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Penny and the late Roberta Lipman. Devoted father of Larry, Beth and Donna. Loving grandfather of Reed. Sandy's humor, loving spirit and infectious personality are irreplaceable in our hearts and shall be greatly missed. Services Wednesday, 1:30 PM, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st and Amsterdam Ave.
        LIPMAN-Samuel. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its former member, Samuel Lipman, and extend to his bereaved wife Pennie and the members of his family our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary
        LIPMAN-Samuel. Good-bye, dear Sandy. We will miss your friendship, kindness, generosity and wit. You left us too soon. You will forever be in our hearts. Our deepest sympathies to Penny, Donna, Larry and Beth. Ruth and Buzz Debbie and Lloyd Ira and Jon
        LIPMAN-Samuel. Dad, no one could have asked for a better father. You were always there for us. We will never forget the love and warmth you brought into our lives. The only comfort we have is that you are with Mom, and that you are both looking over us. Donna, Larry and Beth
        LIPMAN-Sandy. Larry, Beth, Donna, Reed and Penny, it is with profound sorrow that we mourn the tragic loss of your beloved Sandy. He was a special father, husband, friend and man who will be greatly missed by all he touched. Our thoughts are with all of you. Pamela and David Blechman
        LIPMAN-Sandy. We are saddened by the loss of our dear friend, Sandy. Deepest sympathy are extended to his family from his friends at Carol Management. Susan & Howard Kaskel Carole & Alvin Schragis Anita & Yale Roe
        LIPMAN-Samuel (Sandy). We mourn the loss of an esteemed colleague and dear friend, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Penny, daughter Donna and son Larry. Howard Levine and Family
        LIPMAN-Sandy. We mourn the passing of Sandy Lipman. He was more than a partner, he was a true and good friend and a wonderful human being. Our condolences to Penny, Larry, Donna, Beth and the entire Lipman family. Love, the Sands Family, Sydelle, Ben, Candace, Craig and Ira and Bonnie Postel
        LIPMAN-Sandy. We share with his adoring wife, Penny, the tragic loss of a wonderful friend and confidante. Our prayers are with his children whom he treasured. Our wonderful memories will never be forgotten. Steven and Helene
      