
        BOGEDAL-Eric. Passed away on February 28 in the Hospice of the Piedmont at Martha Jefferson Hospital in Charlottesville, VA. A native of New York City, Eric was born on July 26, 1928 to Viggo and Laura (nee Knudsen) Bogedal, Danish immigrants who soon became citizens. He attended school in Queens, NY, the challenging Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan, and received a BA degree from Columbia College in 1952. Eric served in the U.S. Army in communications and was honorably discharged as a T4 (Sergeant). He began his career as editor of in-house publications at Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. and later served as public relations manager for Corning Glass and American Brake Shoe. He then entered the advertising industry, joining BBDO, Inc., where he worked in account management from 1962-1978. At that time, he followed BBDO President Jim Jordan, who left the agency to form his own company, James Jordan, Inc. (later Jordan, McGrath, Case & Taylor, Inc.). At the time of his retirement in 1989, Eric was a senior vice president of that agency, now known as jmcp.inc. He retired to a farm in Bedford, VA, where he continued to work as a computer consultant for the company he had served for so long. In July 1995, he married Eileen Murphy and moved with her to Greene County, VA. Eric is survived by Eileen; his mother, Laura; his former wife, Barbara Taylor; his four married children Robert, Steven and David Bogedal and Debra Hocker; his step-brothers Carl and John Skinner of Slate Hill, NY; and his step-children Chris and Noreen Murphy. He also has five grandchildren. Eric was a model railroader, amateur musician and jazz buff, lifetime member of Mensa, member of the Madison Avenue Motorcycle Club and the Long Island Sports Car Association. A memorial service will be held in New York at a future date for family, friends and coworkers. Eric would have preferred that, in lieu of flowers or other memorials, donations be made in his memory to Hospice of the Piedmont, 1490 Pantops Mountain Place, Suite 200, Charlottesville, VA 22911 (804-975-5500), where he was lovingly cared for at the end.
      