
        MACKLER-Dr. Alfred. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn with deepest sorrow the passing of one of its most beloved and distinguished leaders, Dr. (honoris causa) Alfred Mackler, and extends profound condolences to his beloved wife, Helen, their children and grandchildren, & to his surviving sister, Charlotte. A prominent member of the Bar-Ilan Global Board of Trustees, Alfred Mackler personified the greatest ideals of leadership & commitment to the Jewish people. He served with distinction for several decades as Secretary and Treasurer of the American Board of Trustees, and as the accountant and national administrator for Bar-Ilan's U.S. operation. In recognition of his vital contributions to the University's growth and development, he was awarded an honorary doctorate degree from Bar-Ilan. A man of singular integrity and tact, his involvement in every aspect of university activity established a standard of excellence for others to follow. Through the Joseph Alexander Foundation, the Macklers are major Bar-Ilan university benefactors who have made possible the establishment of the Joseph Alexander Memorial Library in the Department of Social Sciences, the expansion of the Maria Finkle and Ruth Rackman Student Couseling Center, and many other vital projects. We extend heartfelt condolences to the Alexander Foundation Trustees-his wife, Helen, his son, Harvey, Bob Weintraub, and Arthur Alfert. A consummate gentleman and an individual of impeccable personal character, he was loved and respected by faculty, students, lay leaders and staff alike. His interpersonal relationships exemplified, as he did in his home, the beautiful family values he cherished-values shared by Helen. Despite his illness for many years, and illness in his family, he did not falter, performing his duties with characteristic diligence as a hero worthy of emulation by those whom God tries. His pivotal leadership contributions to BarIlan University and the Jewish people make him irreplaceable, and his record of service to BarIlan University has formed a most impressive chapter in the annals of our University. May the entire family be comforted by inspiring memories and among all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor, Bar-Ilan University Prof. Moshe Kaveh, President, Bar-Ilan University Mr. Aharon Dahan, Chairman, Global Board of Trustees Mr. Charles Dimston, Chairman, American Board of Trustees Mr. Melvin Stein, President, American Friends Brig. Gen. (Ret.) Yehuda Halevy Executive Vice President Bar-Ilan University
        MACKLER-Alfred. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a highly respected member of the Jewish community, beloved husband of Helen Mackler, a distinguished founding member of the Yeshiva College Board of Directors. As officers and directors of the Joseph Alexander Foundation, which is a YU Benefactor, Mr. and Mrs. Mackler, with their fellow trustees, were instrumental in establishing the foundation's Program for the Enhancement of Science Education at YC and Stern College for Women as well as the Joseph Alexander Foundation Library at our affiliated Marsha Stern Talmudical Academy-YU High School for Boys. Al was a thoughtful man who was blessed with the gift of listening, and was equally a man of action and achievement. He was an honorable man of great charm and we shall miss him dearly. We extend heartfelt condolences to Helen Mackler; children, Harvey (and Robbyn) Mackler, Randi (and Robert) Windheim, and Dr. Scott (Dr. Lynn) Mackler; sister, Charlotte Friedman; grandchildren; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees
        MACKLER-Alfred. The Officers and Directors of Chamah, the international humanitarian and educational organization for Russian Jewry, note with deep sadness the passing of our dear friend, Al Mackler. Mr. Mackler was one of the greatest sons of the Jewish people. His contributions to Russian Jewry and the State of Israel are unparalleled. His kindness and gentle heart will always be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to Helen, Harvey and Robin, Scott and Lynn, Randi and Bob, and his grandchildren. Sanford Bruckner, Chair Emeritus Moshiach Chudaitov Binyomin Malachovski Hillel Zaltzman Executive Committee and Board of Directors, Chamah New York, Israel and Moscow
        MACKLER-Alfred. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University mourn the passing of a cherished and devoted friend, Alfred Mackler. His commitment and dedicatin, through the generosity of the Joseph Alexander Foundation, supported numerous projects at Tel Aviv University. Our heartfelt condolences to Helen and his children. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University Alan L. Aufzien, Chairman Board of Directors Melvin S. Taub, Chairman Emeritus Robert J. Topchik, President Stephen Lecker, Executive Vice President
        MACKLER-Alfred. With heads bowed, we remember and pay respect to our very good friend and staunch supporter, Alfred Mackler. As President of The Joseph Alexander Foundation, Al understood the unique contribution of The Open University and always showed his unwavering commitment to Klal Yisroel. Our deepest sympathies go to Helen and the family. We have lost a good friend whose memory will always be for a blessing. Irving M. Rosenbaum, National Chairman Ingeborg Rennert, NY Chair Eric G. Heffler, Executive VP American Friends of The Open University of Israel
        MACKLER-Alfred. The officers and Board of Directors of the America-Israel Friendship League mourn the passing of Alfred Mackler, our friend and supporter. His untiring and significant efforts on behalf of the Jewish people and the State of Israel will be remembered and cherished by all. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Helen, his children, grandchildren and the entire Mackler family. Mortimer B. Zuckerman Honorary Chairman Kenneth J. Bialkin Chairman of the Board Ilana Artman Executive Vice President
        MACKLER-Alfred. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of CLAL mourn the passing of Alfred Mackler, our staunch supporter and generous benefactor. A true friend throughout the years, his wisdom, enthusiasm and generosity were instrumental in nuturing CLAL's rabbinic student chevra programs. We extend our deepest condolences to all his family and everyone he touched during his life. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Barbara B. Friedman, Chairman Rabbi Irwin Kula, President Donna M. Rosenthal, Executive Vice Chairman
        MACKLER-Alfred. The Jewish Braille Institute of America records with sorrow the loss of a much respected and devoted Honorary Life Trustee. Through the Joseph Alexander Foundation of which he was a valued trustee, he was instrumental in providing important resources on behalf of the blind and visually impaired whom we serve. We extend profound sympathy to his wife, Helen, and the entire family sure in the knowledge that his memory will serve as a blessing. Barbara B. Friedman, President Dr. Jane Evans, Honorary Pres. Gerald M. Kass, Executive VP
        MACKLER-Alfred. The Board of The Macula Foundation, Inc. and the LuEsther T. Mertz Retinal Research Center deeply mourn the passing of our adminstrator and dear friend, Al. His many years of leadership, kindness and generosity were an inspiration to us all. He will be greatly missed. Our love and condolences are extended to his wife, Helen, and the family. Lawrence A. Yannuzzi, MD, Pres. The Macula Foundation, Inc. Yale L. Fisher, MD, Vice-President The Macula Foundation
        MACKLER-Alfred. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of our dear friend Alfred Mackler. Together with his wife Helen and children, Al was dedicated to the well-being of the Jewish people, Israel and America. We pray that the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Malcolm I. Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        MACKLER-Alfred. The American Friends of David Yellin College of Education record with deep sorrow the death of our good friend and benefactor, Al Mackler of the Joseph Alexander Foundation. Our sincerest sympathies go out to Helen and the entire family, from the Officers and Board of Directors. Elias Strum, President The American Friends of David Yellin College of Education
        MACKLER-Alfred. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Friends of Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, deeply mourn the passing of Alfred Mackler. Through the generosity of the Joseph Alexander Foundation, he was our longtime friend and supporter. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire family. Romie Shapiro, Chairman of the Board Edward Abramson, President
        MACKLER-Alfred. We are greatly saddened by the passing of our friend, advisor and Director, Alfred Mackler. We shall greatly miss his wisdom, his guidance and his wit. Our deepest sympathy goes to all his family. The Breast and Prostate Cancer Research Foundation
        MACKLER-Alfred. It is with great sadness we mourn the loss of a good friend and loyal supporter of Re'uth. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Helen, and his entire family. Ursula Merkin, Chairman Rosa Strygler, President
        MACKLER-Alfred. His generosity of spirit was surpassed only by the sweetness of his temperament. To Helen, whose strength and courage is an example, we send our love and friendship. Belda and Marcel Lindenbaum
        AD#
      