
        LOCALIO-S. Arthur, MD. Age 88. Of Deerfield, MA. Died March 4, 2000. Born in NYC. He was the son of Joseph and Carmella Localio. Dr. Localio graduated from Cornell University and the University of Rochester School of Medicine. In 1942 he received a Doctor of Medical Science degree from Columbia University. Dr. Localio spent his entire professional life in NYC where he was professor of surgery at the New York University School of Medicine. He was a member of the American Surgical Association, The Royal Society Medicine, and the New York Academy of Science. In 1972 he was named the Johnson and Johnson Distinguished Professor of Surgery. He was a major in the US Army Medical Corps. for four years in WW II serving with the Seventh Evacuation Hospital in the South Pacific. He was honored on his retirement by the establishment of a professorship and a research laboratory in his name at New York University. Dr. Localio served for ten years as Trustee of Deerfield Academy where he established an endowment for the purchase of books in the field of Art. He leaves his wife, Ruth (Adkins), a daughter, Susan of Dolores, Colo., and three sons, William of Mansfield, Conn., Russell of Media, PA., and David of Los Angeles. He also leaves four grandchildren, four sisters and several nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held at The Second Congregational Church of Greenfield, Mass. on Wednesday, March 8 at 2 PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to The Deerfield Rescue Squad, 84 Greenfield Road, South Deerfield, Mass. 01373 or to the S. Arthur Localio Professorship Fund, C/O Kenneth Eng, MD, 550 First Avenue, NY, NY 10016.
        LOCALIO-S. Arthur, M.D. The Department of Surgery of New York University School of Medicine mourns the passing of Dr. S. Arthur Localio, M.D. Dr. Localio was a professor of surgery at New York University School of Medicine from 1948 to 1992, where he was an outstanding surgeon, teacher and researcher. His advances in the field of gastrointestinal surgery still remain relevant today. Upon his retirement, NYU honored Dr. Localio by the establishment of a professorship and research laboratory in his name. We extend heartfeld condolences to his wife Ruth and the entire Localio family. H. Leon Pachter Interim Chairman Department of Surgery
      