
        GREENE-Lee A., 90, of Lawrence, NY. At University Hospital at Stony Brook, Tuesday, March 21, 2000, following by less than 9 months the death of her beloved and adoring husband of 66 years, Dr. Barnett Greene. Devoted mother of the late Stuart and his wife, Sherry, and of William and his wife, Beverly; grandmother of Douglas, Stephanie and Bradley and of Ilyssa, David and Lauren. Daughter of the late Samuel and Sadie Adelman and sole surviving sibling of David, Frances and Milton. Lee loved her father for ''his kindness, his loving disposition, his concern and generosity to his family and his intelligence'' and her mother for ''her devotion to her family and her great sense of humor.'' She was the embodiment of both-an Arista student at Girls' High School, a graduate of Hunter College, an outstanding public elementary school teacher and reading specialist in Brooklyn, a hard working and creative member and officer of Hadassah, and a disciplined, funny, temperate person who listened well and spoke even better. She became and remained the ''modern woman'' while retaining fundamental values of family, friendship and decency. Above all, she was Barney's partner, in marriage and in life-in the sacrifices during the Depression to support his education and early career, in the loving raising of their sons while he was in the European theater in World War II and while both she and he became and remained consummate professionals. Barney, and especially Lee, gave to their children security, morality, ambition and goals and offered the wisdom to use them wisely. But many will remember her and Barney for their partnership in ballroom dancing that was so emblematic of their lives-for 60 years, on and off the dance floor, they moved in unison, with precision, grace and superb timing; with attention to detail and appearance; and with love and enthusiasm. A woman of valor, her family and friends are devastated at their loss. Funeral services will be held at 1:30 PM Sunday, March 26, 2000 at Boulevard-Riverside Chapels, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, New York (516-295-3100). Shiva will be observed and the family will receive visitors at the family's home in Lawrence. Please call the funeral home for details. Donations may be made to the Woodmere Chapter of Hadassah or to the American Heart Association, Nassau or Suffolk Chapters.
      