
        MACKLER-Alfred. On Saturday, March 4, 2000, of Bloomfield, NJ. Beloved husband of Helen (nee Alexander); loving father of Harvey and Robbyn Mackler, Randi and Bob Windheim, and Scott and Lynn Mackler; dear brother of Charlotte Friedman; cherished grandfather of Jessica, Justin, Alexander, Hillary, Marc and Noah. Funeral services were conducted from Temple Ner Tamid, 936 Broad Street, Bloomfield, NJ, on Sunday, March 5, 2000. Interment in the Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. The family has requested that memorial donations may be made to: The Scott A. Mackler, M.D., Ph.D., Assistive Technology Program at ALS. For information, contact the Menorah Chapels at Millburn, 2950 Vaux Hall Road, Union, NJ.
        MACKLER-Alfred. Of Bloomfield, NJ, 73, died on Sunday, March 4, at St. Barnabas Hospital in New Jersey. Mr. Mackler was a consultant and the administrator of Medical Development for Israel, Inc (MDI), which represents the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel (SCMCI), the only children's hospital in the Middle East. Mr. Mackler joined MDI 12 years ago, where he was a force in shaping and building the organization. He worked closely with its American Board of Directors and with the medical staff of SCMCI in Israel. Mr. Mackler was deeply loved by those who came in contact with him. His boundless compassion for others, his unique ability to connect with people on all levels and his decency coupled with a financial expertise and wisdom made him an invaluable and irreplaceable partner to the work of MDI on behalf of SCMCI in the United States. Mr. Mackler, as Director and Trustee of the Joseph Alexander Foundation, together with his family, acted to further the cause of medical research, education, art and social welfare. His generosity made an impact both in Israel and in the United States. His colleagues at MDI, Inc., and its Board of Directors are inconsolable and will miss him for a very long time. H. Irwin Levy, Chmn. of the Board Arnold Forster, President Shlomit Manson, Nat'l. Exec. Dir.
        MACKLER-Alfred. The Western Wall Heritage Foundation deeply mourns the passing of our dearest friend, who together with his wife, Helen, and through the Joseph Alexander Foundation were our first supporters. Words cannot adequately express our loss for this wonderful, gracious man whose involvement with our foundation is the primary reason that hundreds of thousands of visitors each year are able to enjoy the excavations and tunnels of the Western Wall. May God grant strength and comfort amongst the mourners of Jerusalem to his wife Helen, his sister Charlotte, his children Harvey and Robin, Scott and Lynn, Randi and Bob, and his dear grandchildren. Ingeborg Rennert, Chairperson Samuel Eisenstat, President Suli Eliav, Director Yogi Loshinsky, Executive VP
        MACKLER-Al. The Genesis Foundation and Yeshiva Reishit Yerushalayim deeply mourn the loss of Al Mackler, our treasurer, mentor and close friend. We share the deep felt loss with Helen, Harvey and Robin, Scott and Lynn, Randi and Bob, his six grandchildren, sister Charlotte and all his nieces and nephews. Our sympathy goes out to the entire Mackler family during this difficult time. May Al's strength and optimism continue to guide us. We were fortunate to be counted as part of his family. Howard P. Ronson, Chairman Jay Zises, President Rabbi Jay, Barbara, Rav Ari, Elie, Doni, Chaim and Ora Marcus and families
        MACKLER-Alfred. Of Bloomfield, NJ, March 4, 2000. The entire staff of The Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel deeply mourns the death of a great friend. A loyal and dedicated partner, his financial advice and professional service were invaluable to the hospital's development from its very inception. He cared about our work and about the children we serve. He touched all of us in our work and many of us as a personal friend. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family in their grief. Dr. Itamar Shalit, Director, SCMCI Dr. Yitzhak Peterburg, Dir. Gen'l. Clalit Health Services
        MACKLER-Alfred. It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of Al Mackler. We will miss his kindness, friendship and generosity. The employees of Vayiheor, LLC, dba Gempire
        MACKLER-Al. A special friend whose goodness and acts of kindness we already miss. Our condolences to Helen, the children and grandchildren. Shalom. Helen and Irving Schneider
        MACKLER-Alfred. We love and miss our Dad. Your warmth, love, generosity and guidance will be missed by all. Harvey, Robbyn, Randi, Bob, Scott, and Lynn
        MACKLER-Alfred. It is with great sorrow that we mourn the loss of our fellow Trustee. Our Board meetings will never be the same. The Joseph Alexander Foundation
      