
        SHERMAN-Donald. Age 62. Peacefully passed away on March 3 with his family by his side at his home in North Miami Beach, Florida. For 44 years, he was the beloved husband of Marcia (nee Spirer) of Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey. Loving father of Debra and Filip Tiffenberg and Ronald and Barbara Sherman of Tenafly, New Jersey. Cherished grandfather of Erica and Danielle Sherman and Jodi and Michelle Tiffenberg. Devoted son of Rhoda and the late Michael Sherman of Hackensack, New Jersey. He is sadly missed by his dear brother, Marshall, sistersin-law, Rosemary Sherman and Eva Mullane, and brother-in-law, Lawrence Mullane. After graduating from Lincoln High School in Jersey City, he married his childhood sweetheart and went to work in the family business, the Sherman Paint Store in Jersey City. By the age of 21, he had become a successful real estate developer. In the 1970's, he became involved in the taxicab industry in New York City. During the next twenty years, he built Midtown Operating Corp. into the largest taxi fleet in New York City. For many years, he was a member of the executive board of the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade. He also served on the Board of Directors of the Fort Lee Community Center. He was a generous supporter of numerous charitable and civic organizations but his philanthropic contributions were almost always made anonymously. Because he understood what was truly important in life, he retired ten years ago to devote himself to his family. He gave his love, support, counsel, and assistance to his family, his friends, his colleagues, his employees or anyone who sought it. His concern for others remained undiminished even during his quiet and courageous battle against cancer. His generosity of spirit will be his legacy to all who knew him. Memorial contributions may be made to: Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, NY, NY 10021.
        SHERMAN-Donald. The Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade deeply mourns the passing of Donald Sherman, a cherished member of the Metropolitan family for over 25 years. Donald was a pioneer in the yellow medaillion taxicab business, eventually building his own company, Midtown Operating Corp., into the largest taxicab fleet in New York City. His vision, tenacity and leadership on our Board served our industry well and we will miss his counsel. But most importantly, we will miss his friendship, his generosity, his warmth and his spirit. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Donald's family. We will all miss him very much. The Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade
        SHERMAN-Donald. The Jewish Community Center of Fort Lee is pofoundly saddened and deeply mourns the passing of an esteemed member of its Board of Trustees. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Marcia, his children Ronald and Barbara, Debra and Filip, his mother Rhoda, his brother Marshall, his four grandchildren and his entire family. Donald Sherman was a generous benefactor, a fine gentleman and a leader who will be sorely missed. Steven Kolitch, President Irving Spielman, Rabbi Paul Zim, Cantor Anne Schafer, Exec. Director
        SHERMAN-Donald. We will always remember our weekly strategy lunches with you and Jack. Your knowledge, wisdom and friendship will never be forgotten. The four of us shared many hard times and good times together. Rest in peace good friend and kiss Jack for us. Allen and Ted
      