
        TERENZIO-Joseph V. In Miami, FL on March 7. Joseph V. Terenzio, age 81. Husband of the late Marie Cozzolino Terenzio of Miami, FL, formerly of New York City. Father of John J. Terenzio of Los Angeles, Mary Louise Shafer of New York City, Joanne T. Blakemore of Singapore. Brother of the late Peter B. Terenzio and Mary Lorenzi. Mr. Terenzio worked in hospital administration for more than 30 years and was President of United Hospital Fund in New York. Friends are invited to attend a memorial Mass, Monday, March 13 at 10AM in the Lady Chapel at St. Patrick's Cathedral (51 Street entrance).
        TERENZIO-Joseph V. The board of directors, other volunteers, and staff of the United Hospital Fund are deeply saddened by the loss of their former president. From 1972 to 1983, he provided strong and progressive leadership at a time of significant change in New York's health care system. A man with tremendous energy, he was a dedicated spokesperson on behalf of voluntary hospitals and their role in providing care to poor and uninsured New Yorkers, a champion of community health information systems to better understand New Yorkers' health status and needs, and a committed advocate for better health care for all New Yorkers. We extend our deep condolences to his children. Howard Smith, Chairman James R. Tallon, Jr., President
        TERENZIO-Joseph V. The faculty, students, alumni and staff of Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health mourn the passing of its alumnus, Class of '54. A distinguished faculty member, he made a tremendous impact on countless numbers of students and demonstrated a life-long commitment to, and influence in, public health in New York City as hospital administrator, attorney and Commissioner of the Department of Hospitals. An early leader and advocate of health care reform for the betterment of all citizens, his energy and commitment inspired many.To his son, daughters and family, we extend our warmest sympathy. He will be missed. Allan Rosenfield, MD Dean
      