
        LYNN-Edward J., 81, of Little Silver, New Jersey, on March 17, 2000, after a heart attack. Born in Scranton, Pennsylvania, he grew up in South Amboy, New Jersey, where he graduated from St. Mary's High School in 1935. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps in 1941 and flew 50 combat missions as a P-38 squadron commander in Italy and North Africa. He was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal with eight Oak Leaf Clusters. He retired from active duty in 1946 with the rank of Major. Like many of his generation, on returing from the war he used the GI Bill to complete his bachelor's degree in Business Administration from Pace University in 1949. He earned his C.P.A. certificate in 1952. He married the former Rose McGuire of Perth Amboy, New Jersey, in 1944. Mr. Lynn, a native of South Amboy, NJ, had worked for 32 years for The Continental Group, originally Continental Can Company. He helped to manage its growth as a diversified, multi-national company, supervising acquisitions in Europe, especially Germany, and planning the company's move to Stamford, Connecticut, in 1979. The company's first C.P.A., he rose through the accounting and finance ranks, retiring as Controller in 1983. Mr. Lynn lived most of his life in New Jersey. He and his wife raised their family in Metuchen before moving to Southport, CT, in 1979. They remained in Connecticut for 11 years, where they were members of St. Luke Church in Westport and the Patterson Club in Fairfield. They returned to New Jersey in 1991, moving to Little Silver. In recent years Mr. Lynn served as a volunteer at Riverview Medical Center in Red Bank, NJ. Mr. Lynn was an active parishioner at Holy Cross Church in Rumson, NJ, and was a member of Beacon Hill Country Club, Atlantic Highlands, NJ. Mr. Lynn had also served as a member of the Advisory Board at St. Benedict's Preparatory School, Newark, NJ. He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Rose McGuire Lynn, a native of Perth Amboy, NJ; five daughters: Katharine Thornton of Newark, NJ, Anne Rahill of Washington, DC, Jean Lynn of Arlington, VA, Mary Hickey of Falls Church, VA, and Patricia Saclyn of Medina, OH; six sons: Edward of Cologne, Germany, James of Silver Spring, MD, Thomas of Mount Vernon, WA, John of Springfield, NJ, Robert of Budd Lake, NJ, and Paul of Wyomissing, PA. Also surviving are two sisters: Ann Henry and Rosemarie Muchanic of South Amboy, NJ, a brother, John, of Colonia, NJ, 18 grandchildren and one great-grandchild. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at Holy Cross Church, Rumson, NJ, on Tuesday, March 21, 2000, at 10 AM. Visiting Monday, March 20, from 2-4 PM and 7-9 PM, at John E. Day Funeral Home, Red Bank, NJ. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Edward J. Lynn Scholarship Fund, St. Benedict's Prep., 520 King Blvd., Newark, NJ 07102-1314, Attn: Development Office.
      