
        CHRISTENFELD-Ruth Eleanor (Dickman). Died March 4, 2000. Beloved mother of Sharyn (Dickman) Frankel and Stuart Frankel. Cherished grandmother of Hilary Frankel Cooper and Richard Cooper, Jeffrey Frankel and Cynthia (Viole) Frankel, and Andrew Frankel and Shawn (Freed) Frankel. Adored great-grandmother ''GG'' to Jason Kempner, Rebecca, Ryan and Kyle Frankel and Jack Frankel. Loving step-mother to Janine Lindquist and Alan Christenfeld. ''GG'' was a regal and extra-special presence in the lives of all her devoted children. We will miss her terribly and think of her always. Rest in peace Mother. Know how much you were loved and thanks for staying so long. Private graveside services in East Hampton. Contributions in her memory in lieu of flowers may be sent to the T.I.M.E./Scottsdale Healthcare, 10001 N. 92nd St., Scottsdale, AZ 85258.
        CHRISTENFELD-Ruth. To my dear Grandmother, Ruth Christenfeld, who passed away on March 4, 2000. I will love you and miss you forever. You will always stand as a symbol of strength and dignity. Jason and I will always remember the love in your eyes when you were with him. Thank you for staying in my life long enough to know Richard and my new family. May you be in peace forever. Love, Hilary
        CHRISTENFELD-Ruth. Beloved grandmother to Jeffrey and Cynthia. Adored great-grandmother ''G.G'' to Rebecca, Ryan and Kyle. Thanks for your grace. Thanks for your love. Thanks for your caring and nurturing way. But most of all thanks for leaving us with special memories in our hearts. We will never forget our wonderful G.G.
        CHRISTENFELD-Ruth. Grandmother of Andrew and Shawn Frankel, great-grandmother to Jack. To the woman who always had milano cookies and chocolate milk in her house. From checking on our flights to fretting about our colds, you always worried about us. We will miss you greatly and always love you.
        CHRISTENFELD-Ruth Eleanor (Dickman). We mourn the death of one of our founding Partners, Ruth Christenfeld. She believed in our business and its future from the very beginning. She will be missed by all of us. Stuart Frankel & Co., Inc.
      