
        WESTON-Jeffrey. Our sorrows are with aunt Beverly, Irene, Samantha and Burton as we all mourn the loss of our dear cousin, friend and partner. We'll miss the good times. Allan, Barbara, Richard Sharkey
        WESTON-Jeffrey. Officers and members of the Board of Trustees of the BSSC are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Jeffrey Weston, beloved son of our esteemed member, Beverly Weston, and the late Mac Weston. We extend our deepest sympathies to Beverly, his devoted wife Irene, to his loving daughter Samantha, and his entire family. Jeffrey was a warm and caring individual and will be missed by all who had the pleasure of knowing him. Rabbi Morris J. Block, Exec. Dir. Sondra L. Grunes, Asst. Exec. Dir. Sam S. Fierstein, President Edmund DiGiacomo, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        WESTON-Jeffrey. To our loving friend and cousin. You have meant so much to us on so many different levels throughout all of our lives. We will always be inspired by your sense of humor, your generosity, your thoughtfulness and your friendship. Ellen, Steve, Margot and Adam Leifer Randi, Jason and Alexander Kling
        WESTON-Jeffrey. We remember the good times, all the baseball, basketball and football games on Ridgeway Drive, and your laughter and spirit. Our tears and sympathies to Beverly, Irene and Samantha, Burton and Joyce and the entire Weston family. The Hartman Family
        WESTON-Jeffrey. You made the world around you laugh. There was no one you couldn't make smile. We will miss you terribly, but you have forever lit up our lives. Love, Mom, Irene, Samantha, Burton, Joyce, Ian and Pia
        WESTON-Jeffrey. Beloved son of Beverly Weston, President and loving friend of the Junior League of the E.W.P.F. Our heartfelt sympathy to Beverly and the bereaved family. Marcia Winikoff, Vice President
        WESTON-Jeffrey. Our world will be a lesser place without you in it. Our deepest condolences to Irene and Sam and the entire family. Evelyn, Andy, Lauren, Alan & Jan
      