
        AMES-Herbert M. Founder and past President of Pack and Process, Inc. Died on March 4 of prostate cancer. He was 82. Mr. Ames resided in Palm Beach, FL, and Bantam, CT, with his wife of 58 years, Lillian. He was born in the Bronx, NY, and was a graduate of CCNY. By his early 30's, he was responsible for operating five breweries in NYC, consolidating them and then moving and installing the equipment from those breweries internationally. He then started Pack and Process, a contract packaging business in Wilmington, DE, serving major food processors. In his later years he was the Chairman of the Board of the West Point Jewish Chapel, involved in fundraising, constructing and supporting the chapel at the Military Academy. He is survived by his wife Lillian, his daughters Barbara Schwartz of Baldwin Harbor, NY, Janet Scharf of Rockville Centre, NY, his sons Steven Ames of Greenville, DE, his sisters Adrienne Rieger and Elaine Friedberg of Boca Raton, FL, nine grandchildren and one greatgrandchild.
        AMES-Herbert M. We mourn the loss of the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the West Point Jewish Chapel Fund. His vision, tenacity and leadership enabled the Jewish Chapel to be erected at the United States Military Academy, where it serves the Jewish cadets and the Jewish community. A civilian who never spent one day in uniform, he took command of a five year old group that included some twenty West Point graduates and formed them into a fund raising armada. His leadership and devotion to the project enabled us to overcome the bureaucracy and other obstacles and culminated in the construction of the Jewish Chapel at West Point. He oversaw the gifting of the Chapel to the United States Military Academy, where it stands as a national monument to the participation of the Jewish American community in the United States Army and to the service of this country. Herbert Ames led our group for over thirty years and has left his imprint on the Jewish American community, the Military Academy at West Point, and on the United States of America. Louis Gross, President West Point Jewish Chapel Fund
        AMES-Herbert. Farewell to our man of all seasons. We cherished your friendship. We shared your ideas and visions for a secure and peaceful future. You will always live in our hearts and minds. Harriet and Buddy
      