
        LEVITT-Marvin, M.D. On April 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Anne, loving father of Jane & Jim, fond father-in-law of Robert & Mira, devoted grandfather of Emily, Paul, Madeline & Jonathan. Services Sunday 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Donations may be made to the Marvin F. Levitt Renal Endowment Fund, Mt. Sinai Hospital.
        LEVITT-Marvin F., M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of Marvin F. Levitt, M.D., a highly esteemed physician-leader whose remarkable career at Mount Sinai covered more than half a century. A pioneering expert in the field of kidney physiology and diuretics, Dr. Levitt was the founding Chief of the Renal Division at Mount Sinai. He held the Joe Lowe and Louis Price Chair as Professor of Medicine. Dr. Levitt was elected to the American Society of Clinical Investigation and the Association of American Physicians, and served as President of the New York Socity of Nephrology. Dr. Levitt was known for his keen insights and extraordinary abilities in training students, residents, and fellows in the art and science of medicine. Dr. Nathan Kase, Dean Emeritus of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine hailed Dr. Levitt not only as one of the first full time faculty at the School, but also as an outstanding Nephrologist. Dr. Levitt will be remembered fondly as a brilliant diagnostician and compassionate healer beloved by his patients, colleagues and friends. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Annett, and his entire family. Helene L. Kaplan, Chairman Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chairman Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh., Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine John W. Rowe, MD, President Mount Sinai NYU Health Barry R. Freedman, President The Mount Sinai Hospital
        LEVITT-Marvin, Dr. The faculty of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the loss of its esteemed colleague Dr. Marvin Levitt, one of Mount Sinai's true ''giants.'' Dr. Levitt received his MD from NYU, interned at Mount Sinai, trained in Homer Smith's laboratory at NYU, and then returned to Mount Sinai for what would be a distinguished career spanning more than 50 years. He held the Joe Lowe and Louis Price Chair as Professor of Medicine and was the founding Chief of the Renal Division at Mount Sinai. He was elected to the American Society of Clinical Investigation and the Association of American Physicians, and was President of the New York Society of Nephrology. Dr. Levitt was a superb physician-scientist who performed pioneering research in kidney physiology and diuretics, and helped to found the subspecialty of nephrology. He trained scores of students, residents, and fellows in the art and science of medicine, most particularly, how to listen carefully to the patient's history. As a brilliant diagnostician and compassionate healer he was beloved by countless patients. We will dearly miss his brilliant and incisive mind, his funloving sense of humor, the sparkle in his eye, and his gentle smile. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Annette and the entire Levitt family. Paul Klotman Chief, Renal Division Barry S. Coller Chairman
        LEVITT-Marvin F., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. Chief of the Division of Renal Medicine for more than thirty years, he combined his love for teaching, physiological research and understanding of disease to help build an outstanding Division, renowned for its rich mixture of clinical and research activities. He was a consummate clinician and superb teacher, blessed with a wonderful sense of humor, who spawned generations of investigators and clinicians as well as outstanding nephrologists. In 1997, the Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion to Dr. Levitt in acknowledgement of his many contributions to Nephrology and lifelong devotion to Mount Sinai and the Alumni. A caring and beloved physician, he will be missed. Our sincere condolences are extended to his wife Anne, his children, Dr. Jane Levitt and Dr. James Levitt, his grandchildren and the entire family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, M.D., Treasurer
        LEVITT-Marvin, M.D. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Marvin F. Levitt, M.D. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
      