
        KOMANOFF-Hannah. On April 9, at the Long Beach Medical Center in Long Beach, New York. Beloved and devoted wife of Isidore Komanoff, a stock broker and philanthropist who died in 1985; mother of Frederica Miceli, Ruth Underwood and Charles Komanoff; grandmother of Andrew Miceli, Dorian Bandy, Amalia Bandy, Daniel Komanoff and Alexander Komanoff. After graduating from the New York University School of Commerce in 1931, she enjoyed a successful career in merchandising with Abraham & Strauss. In 1947 she and her family moved from Brooklyn to Long Beach, where she dedicated her life to the care of her family and friends and to the service of her community. As a Long Beach resident for 53 years, she was in the forefront of volunteer civic work and progressive political activities, serving as an elected member of the Board of Education from 1957 to 1973 and as the Supervisor of Long Beach on the Nassau County Board of Supervisors from 1974 to 1985. With her husband and on her own, she was a generous benefactor to many local institutions and national organizations. Her Supervisor's salary was donated to charity. The Hannah and Isidore Komanoff Center for Rehabilitative Medicine and Geriatric Care, part of the Long Beach Medical Center, has been in the vanguard of its field since its inception almost 30 years ago. Decent, fair and compassionate, her life was a testimoy to her belief in the dignity, equality and inherent goodness of all people. With intelligence, humility, charm and kindness, she always put the well-being of others before herself. She will be profoundly missed and lovingly remembered.
        KOMANOFF-Hannah. The Board of Trustees of Long Beach Medical Center records with profound sorrow the passing of our colleague and magnificent benefactor Hannah Komanoff. As a member and officer of the Board since 1973, her wisdom, generosity and forward thinking helped the Medical Center to grow and prosper. She showered our hospital and the nursing home that bears her name with caring concern and compassion for all those less fortunate than herself. She was a friend to many and a champion to the underprivileged. Our deepest sympathy to her children and her extended family. We are all diminished by her loss. Alfred Osterland, Chairman, Board of Trustees Bernard Kennedy, President, Board of Trustees Martin F. Nester, Jr., Chief Executive Officer
        KOMANOFF-Hannah. We mourn the loss of former Supervisor of the City of Long Beach for 12 years. Singlehandedly she rescued Long Beach in the mid 70's by restricting the flow of released mental patients from state psychiatric hospitals into our city and by her insistence that every state, county and city agency with oversight for adult homes enforce their regulations. Her efforts resulted in the creation of a model program offering mental health and personal skills services since duplicated throughout the state and country. Mrs. Komanoff's work sparked the renaissance of Long Beach that continues to this date. A great humanitarian and lady; a true friend and mentor. Mal Newman, Ellen Rosen and Estelle Sealine
        KOMANOFF - Hon. Hannah. Temple Israel of Long Beach records with sorrow the passing of our Honorary Trustee and Sisterhood Life Member. Her contributions to this institution & the entire community will serve as a perpetual reminder of her dedication to her faith and humanity. Mark I. Samuels, Co-President Bruce A. Sklover, Co-President Jacob Chiger, Rabbi Karl S. Kritz, Cantor Marcia Kaskel, Sist. President
        KOMANOFF-Hannah. The medical staff of Long Beach Medical Center is saddened by the passing of Hannah Komanoff. She helped propel the growth of our Medical Center and was a great friend to all of the members of the medical staff. We will greatly miss her gentleness and caring spirit. Robert Rubin, M.D., Chairman, Medical Staff Mordecai Bluth, M.D., President, Medical Board
      