
        PIERCY-George T. Piercy died Thursday evening at his home in Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida. He was born in Eau Claire, Wisconsin on November 29, 1915, and graduated from the University of Minnesota with a degree in chemical engineering in 1938. On graduation he joined the Exxon Corporation as a process engineer in Baton Rouge, LA. In 1964, he was elected to the Board of Directors of Imperial Oil Limited, Exxon's Canadian affiliate, and in 1965, he moved to London where he became Middle East Representative for Exxon. Returning to the United States in 1966, shortly after, he was elected a director of Exxon. During the oil crisis of 1973-74, Mr. Piercy was responsible for many negotiations with OPEC, representing the petroleum industry. He retired in 1981, as a senior Vice President and Exxon Board Member, expanding his career to 42 years. Mr. Piercy also served as a Director of the Chemical Bank and Chemical New York Corporation; Board Member of the Princeton Theological Seminary and Center of Theological Inquiry in Princeton; Trustee, President and Chairman of the Board of Educational Broadcasting Corporation of New York; President and Chairman of the University of Minnesota Foundation; and Chairman of the Teagle Foundation. His former wife of 30 years, Virginia Boudreau died in 1979. Mr. Piercy is survived by his wife Janet Aldridge Piercy, of 18 years, two daughters, Nancy P. Murray of Elkton, MD, and Susan P. McCarthy, of Arden Hills, MN, and five grandchildren. A memorial was held in Mr. Piercy's home on Saturday, April 1st for family and friends with Dr. Jack Swann presiding. Memorial services will be held in New York City at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church Chapel with Dr. Thomas K. Tewell, Sr., Minister and Dr. Bryant M. Kirkland, Minister Emeritus presiding at 1:00pm, on Monday, April 10. A service at the University of Minnesota and Interment in Eau Clare, Wisconsin will be held April 12. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the University of Minnesota Foundation for the George T. Piercy Wing at the Department of Chemical Engineering and Material Science. Attn: Gerald B. Fischer, 200 Oak St. S.E., Suite 500, Minneapolis, MN 55455-2010.
      