
        O'BRIEN-Peter S. Marine, Educator, Unionist. After serving on active duty with the U.S. Marine Corps during the Korean War, Peter O'Brien continued his military service with the Marine Corps Reserve. He became proficient in all aspects of Marine Corps Air Control and retired as Lieutenant Colonel after 27 years of service. Following release from active duty, he taught and supervised in the New York City public schools for over 34 years as a teacher, Assistant Principal, Principal and retired as Community Superintendent of Community School District 30 in Queens. While teaching he became active in the teacher's union movement and helped found the New York City and national AFL-CIO unions of school supervisors and administrators. In 1977, as its President, he led the Council of Supervisors and Administrators of the City of New York on strike in support of the UFT. As a founding officer of the American Federation of School Administrators, he served as President until his return to the New York City public school system as Superintendent of Community School District 30. He is survived by his wife, Bernadette, their children, Peter, Bernadette, Michael, Christopher and Stephen, his daughters-in-law Suzann, Patty and Kristen, and grandchildren Michael, Jillian and Megan. As well as his sisters, Eileen Burke, Sister Ann Michael, and brother Shawn. Remembrances may be made to the Mother Theresa Order, Missionaries of Charity, 168 Sussex Avenue, Newark, New Jersey 07103. A wake will be held on the afternoon and evening of Friday, April 28, from 2 P.M. to 4 P.M. and 7 P.M. to 9 P.M. at Vander Plaat Colonial Home, 13-31 Saddle River Road, Fairlawn, New Jersey, with a Mass of the Requiem at 11 A.M. Saturday, April 29th at St. Catharine's RC Church, 905 South Maple Avenue, Glen Rock, New Jersey.
        O'BRIEN-Peter S. The officers, Executive Board and the entire membership of the Council of Supervisors and Administrators of the City of New York deeply mourn the passing of one of our founders and former President Peter S. O'Brien. As a New York City public school teacher he was active in union organizing for teachers. As an Assistant Principal and Principal in the New York City public school system he helped organize the union that today represents 5,000 New York City public school supervisors and administrators and 400 Day Care Directors and Assistant Directors and served as its President from 1974 to 1977. He also helped found the American Federation of School Administrators, the AFL-CIO affiliate national parent organization of the Council of Supervisors and Administrators. He later served as President of that organization. His last position in the City school system was as Superintendent of Community School District 30 in Queens. An outstanding educator and unionist, Peter O'Brien was a born leader who served well both the children of New York City and those charged with educating them. He shall be greatly missed. Our hearts go out to his wife, Bernadette, his children, Peter, Bernadette, Michael, Christopher and Stephen, and his grandchildren. Jill S. Levy, President Council of Supervisors & Administrators of the City of New York
        O'BRIEN-Peter S. The Trustees, Staff and entire membership of the CSA Welfare Fund mourn the passing of past trustee Peter S. O'Brien. His selfless commitment to secure the health and welfare of the Supervisors and Administrators of the New York City Public School System will be long remembered and honored.
      