
        ENGLISH-Paul Ward. Professor and former chairman of the Geography Department at the University of Texas, died on March 30 in Austin at age 64. He first joined the UT faculty in 1963 and over the years served the University in several capacities. From 1973 to 1979 he was Director of the distinguished UT Center of Middle Eastern Studies, and Professor English had earlier established his reputation as an expert on Iran and Afghanistan. His 1966 book, ''City and Village in Iran,'' won the Herfurth Award, and in 1977, at the age of only 41, he was given a Golden Medallion for ''outstanding contributions to Iranian geography'' by the Association of Iranian Geographers. He was also an extraordinary and charismatic teacher. His introductory course in world cultural/regional geography, which he taught at UT for 35 years, became legendary among UT undergraduates. Innovatively taught, with abundant visual and auditory aids, the course was the subject of an article in ''Alcalde,'' the UT alumni magazine, as early as 1968 and was instrumental in Dr. English being named one of the most outstanding college teachers in America by ''Change'' magazine in 1978. Each semester saw hundreds of UT students enrolled in this class. Its legacy lives on as part of their education and in two widely used textbooks, at the college and high school levels. Upperclass and graduate students perhaps treasure most highly his seminar in the Geography of Religion, a course that many found truly inspirational. Paul also helped launch the Oxford Summer Program in Geography, in which UT undergraduates and graduate teaching assistants spent six weeks exploring the wonders of England. Paul was a frequent participant in this program and was particularly drawn to Glastonbury, where his Celtic spiritual heritage remains so pervasive. Born February 20, 1936, in Worcester, Massachusetts, Paul was an unreconstructed Irish Catholic Yankee. In mindset and dialect, he remained true to this heritage and was totally impervious to the regional Texan culture. He sounded like a Boston Kennedy and played touch football with the same reckless abandon. His parents, Mary (nee Riley) and James (''Mickey'') English, preceded him in death, as did his dear young daughter, Elisabeth Ann. Paul received a bachelor's degree from Clark University in his native Worcester-an institution most famous for its geography program, a master's degree from Johns Hopkins University, and his doctorate from the University of Wisconsin at Madison. We will sorely miss his wit, intellect, and expertise; his personal magnetism, friendship, loyalty, and tolerance; the twinkle in his Irish eyes. Paul is survived by two sons, Dr. Paul Ward English II, with wife Leslie, of Houston and Dr. Peter Herbert English of Washington, DC, by two grandchildren, Ava Elaine and Paul III, and by his loving devoted fiancee, Annie Delano, whose constant presence and care comforted Paul in his final month and eased his passage. Annie, we, his family and friends, consider you one of us and will always be grateful. You are a true angel of mercy. Paul's numerous friends and colleagues attended a visitation at Weed-Corley-Fish Funeral Home, Saturday evening, April 1, 2000. On Sunday, Paul was returned to his native land for burial in that mystical place he loved best, Cape Cod. Rest well, you happy pilgrim. For information contact Weed-Corley-Fish Funeral Home, Austin, Texas.
      