
        BECK-Bertram M. Deeply beloved husband of Deborah, father of Rachel, and Melissa Beck, and father-in-law to Andrew Less, died at peace on Monday April 3, 2000 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital where he was being treated for mesothelioma. He is also survived by his sisters, Ruth Korn, & Alice Simmons, and his nephews, nieces, and their children to whom he was devoted. While interment will be private, a Memorial Service at Henry Street Settlement, planned jointly with The Fordham University Graduate School of Social Services will be held in the near future. Contributions in his memory may be made to Fordham University and clearly earmarked for The Bertram M. Beck Institute On Religion and Poverty, and sent c/o Annie Rolings, Director of Fordham University Graduate School of Social Services, 113 West 60th Street, NY, NY 10023. The family will be at home from 7 to 9 P.M. on Wednesday and Thursday evening.
        BECK-Bertram. The Real Estate Board of New York mourns the passing of Bertram Beck, beloved husband of our esteemed executive vice president, Deborah B. Beck. As a distinguished leader in social services administration and education, his intellect, buoyant spirit and deep commitment to our community's welfare enriched the lives of countless New Yorkers. He was a great friend to this City and to us. Our condolences to the Beck family. Bernard H. Mendik, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        BECK-Bertram M. It is with a great deal of sadness that we note the passing of Bert Beck. He was an outstanding Executive Director of the Henry Street Settlement from 1967-1977. He will be sorely missed by the entire social welfare community. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, Deborah; his daughters, Rachel and Melissa, & the entire family. A memorial is being planned at the Henry Street Settlement in the near future. Board and Staff of the Henry Street Settlement
        BECK-Bertram. The students, faculty, and administration of the Graduate School of Social Service at Fordham University grieve the death of our devoted colleague, Bert, who contributed so generously and with such brilliance to our educational program. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Deborah and daughters, Rachel and Melissa. We loved you Bert. Rest in peace. Mary Ann Quaranta, Dean
        BECK-Bertram. A special man who will be greatly missed. May wonderful memories bring comfort to his wife Deborah, daughters Melissa and Rachel and sonin-law Andrew. The Leff Family
        BECK-Bert. Mentor, innovator, role model, consummate social worker and change agent. With Love, Your Friends at Agenda for Children Tomorrow
      