
        WILKINSON-Lucinda Pina. April 21, 2000. Age 61, died peacefully April 21 at her home in Manhattan of breast cancer, which she had been fighting for the last two years. Born in Madrid, Spain, Luly received her master's degree in physical chemistry from the University of Madrid and studied at Oxford University and the University of Geneva. Continuing her education in the U.S. Luly attended Harvard University and met her husband while attending Mary Baldwin College in Virginia. She performed research in the field of molten salts using nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometry at the University of Virginia from 1964-1966. She and her family moved to New York in 1969. From 1977 to 1987 Luly taught Spanish grammar and literature at the Brearley School. Luly was a fixture on the Upper East Side, well known by many for her beloved Labrador Retrievers: Powhattan, Amelia and Augusta, who she enjoyed walking daily. She was involved in student affairs at the Collegiate, St. Bernard's and Brearley Schools, which her children attended. Nothing gave her more pleasure than the children's summer swimming races at the Lawrence Beach Club on Atlantic Beach, Long Island. As the family grew and children moved from home, Luly was instrumental in gathering every member, including additions through marriages and births, for memorable birthdays and holidays at a country home in Oxford, Maryland. Luly was proud of her heritage. Her Spanish family was instrumental in advancing education for women. Her grandfather founded the first co-ed, non-sectarian private school in Spain in the 1920's. Luly's parents were both Olympic athletes in the Republic of Spain in the 1930's. Luly shared their love for the mountains and skiing, a passion she continued to pursue with her husband and children. Her favorite family destination for over 20 years was the pistes in Klosters, Switzerland. Luly was known for her Castillian determination and her contagious smile that inspired everyone around her. She was loved by many and will be missed all the more. Luly is survived by her husband, Donald McLean Wilkinson, her children Donald McLean Wilkinson III and his wife, Lauren Doyle Wilkinson, of Manhattan, Duncan Austin Wilkinson of Arlington, Virginia, Charles Carroll Wilkinson of Dallas, Texas, and Margot Carolina Wilkinson Kaye and her husband Jason Philip Kaye of Fort Collins, Colorado, and her grandchildren Donald McLean Wilkinson IV and Ian James Wilkinson of Manhattan. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Avenue at 81 St on Monday, the 24th of April 4-8 PM. There will be a Requiem Mass at 11AM on Tuesday the 25th of April at St. Thomas More Church in New York and she will be interred at the historic Hollywood Cemetery in Richmond, Virginia with a burial service at 11AM on Friday the 28th of April. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, donations be made in her memory to a needy church, Santa Rita, 448 College Avenue, Bronx, N Y. 10451.
      