
        BECK-Bertram M. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family and its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., notes with sadness the passing of Bertram M. Beck, Chairman of The Board of Trustees of The Betances Health Unit. His dedication to community health care on the East Side will never be forgotten. To Deborah, his wife, his daughters and loved ones, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Peter A. Kelly, Executive VP & COO Continuum Health Partners Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President and CEO, Beth Israel Gail F. Donovan, Executive VP & COO, Beth Israel Ruth Levin, VP, Managed Care and Network Development Continuum Health Partners
        BECK-Bertram M. The Hunter College School of Social Work mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Bertram M. Beck who helped initiate our post-masters certificate program in administration. He served as the first President of our affiliated Center for the Study of Social Administration. We will miss his warmth, humor and wisdom; social work and the community at large has loss one of our best. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Deborah, his daughters, his sisters and the rest of his family. Bogart R. Leashore, Dean Hunter College School of Social Work
        BECK-Bertram M. The Board of Trustess and staff of The Community Service Society of New York wish to extend their deepest condolences to the family of Bertram M. Beck. Mr. Beck served as The General Director of the Society from 1977 thru 1985; he is remembered for his excellent leadership, and his deep committment to bettering the condition of the poor. During his tenure at CSS, he set new and important directions for the agency; he leaves a strong legacy. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Deborah and his daughters Melissa and Rachel.
        BECK-Bertram. The Officers and Directors of the Seaview Association of Fire Island, New York note with sorrow the death of Bert Beck, husband of our Treasurer, Deborah B. Beck. Our community is diminished by the loss of this wonderfully intelligent, compassionate, humorous, and exuberant man. Their many friends and neighbors in Seaview extend heartfelt condolences to Deborah, Rachel and Melissa and the Beck family. Suzy Goldhirsch, President
        BECK-Bert. The National and NYC Chapter Boards and staff of The National Association of Social Workers mourn the death of our First Associate Executive Director. A consummate innovator, we are indebted to Bert for creating the Academy of Certified Social Workers, the first national credential in the profession.
      