
        ALEXANDER-Judge Fritz W. II. The Respect For Law Alliance, Inc, mourns the loss of our Incorporator, friend, advisor and colleague, Judge Fritz W. Alexander, II. In addition to being one of our organizers, as a Founding Director, Officer, and active Member, Judge Alexander was a guiding light in the development of The Alliance and its programs. We shall miss the wisdom, and friendship of this respected jurist and public servant. The Nation will be poorer for his loss, but The Alliance will carry on his pattern of offering service, fraternalism, scholarship, and mutual understanding for a stronger and friendlier City, State, and Nation. Those of us in the law, law enforcement, judiciary and public service will miss him greatly. Our condolences to his loving wife, Beverly, and to his family. Brig Gen Arthur Gerwin, USAF (Ret) President and Chairperson Chief Judge Gregory W. Carman US Court of Int'l Trade Vice Pres & Co-Vice Chairperson Judith A. Livingston, Esq Co-Vice Chairperson RESPECT FOR LAW ALLIANCE, INC
        ALEXANDER-Fritz W. II. The entire membership of the Black Alumni of Dartmouth Association expresses deep sorrow over the loss of one of its founding members, Fritz W. Alexander II. Fritz assumed a pivotal role in negotiations with the Dartmouth College administration during the early seventies to advance the cause and increase the involvement of the African-American community of students and alumni in the life of the College. That involvement resulted in the establishment of the Black Alumni of Dartmouth Association as a formal organization, recognized by the College in 1971. Fritz was elected as its first President. BADA conveys its deepest sympathy to Fritz's family over the loss of a dear brother. Tracey Salmon Smith, Esq. '87 President, BADA Dr. Stanford A. Roman, Jr. '64 Trustee, Dartmouth College Garvey E. Clarke, Esq. '57 Founding Member, BADA
        ALEXANDER-Fritz. The Board of Justices of The New York State Supreme Court, First District, deeply mourns the loss of our illustrious former colleague, Fritz Alexander. In the course of his distinguished career of twenty-two years on the bench, he served as a Trial Judge, first on The Civil Court, and then on The Supreme Court, and thereafter, as an Appellate Judge, on The Appellate Division, First Department, and on The Court of Appeals. He was devoted to civil liberties, and the rights of the accused, and our hearts go out to his family. We will all miss him very much. Hon. Beatrice Shainswit, President Board of Justices
      