
        HURFORD-John B. On April 3, 2000, beloved husband of Hilge Drueke. Devoted father of Jennifer, loving nephew of Jessica Simon. He was a prominent philanthopist and international investment adviser. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street Sunday April 9th, 3-6 and 7-9 P.M. Service Monday April 10th, 10 A.M. at Saint James Episcopal Church, Madison Avenue at 71st Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Haberford College, 370 Lancaster Avenue, Haberford, PA 19041 or to Southampton Hospital, 240 Meeting House Lane, Southampton, NY 11968.
        HURFORD-John B. The Board, faculty, administration, staff, students, and alumni of Haverford College are deeply saddened by the death of Board Chairman, John B. Hurford. A 1960 graduate and member of its Board of Managers since 1984, John served the College in many ways, including leadership of its 1989-1994 capital campaign, and as Chair of the Board since 1995. We express our heartfelt sympathy to his family, colleagues and friends. Thomas R. Tritton, President
        HURFORD-John B. The Board of Directors, the membership, and staff of the Fulbright Association mourn the death of John Hurford. A director emeritus of the Association, John exemplified the Fulbright ideals of international understanding and cooperation. We will always be grateful for his outstanding leadership and service. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Frederick G. Acker, President Jane L. Anderson, Executive Dir.
        HURFORD-John B. His friends from Section C, Harvard Business School Class of 1965, deeply mourn his untimely passing. While he succeeded in business, he also excelled in his charitable endeavors including his dedication to Harvard Business School. His classmates will miss him and convey their sympathy to his wife, Hilge, and daughter, Jennifer.
        HURFORD-John. The Board of Trustees and the entire family of the Convent of the Sacred Heart wish to express their profound sorrow at the loss of John Hurford, loving husband and cherished father, wise trustee and generous friend.
        HURFORD-John B. The directors, staff and members of the American Council on Germany note with deep sadness the passing of their friend, colleague and fellow director, John B. Hurford.
      