
        TOBIN-Robert L.B. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sadness the death of our very dear friend, Robert L. B. Tobin. An honorary director at the time of his death, Robert joined the board of the Metropolitan Opera Association as a managing director in 1976. He has left a legacy of more than three decades of dedicated service, as vice president from 1991-1999, as a long-time member of the executive committee, as chairman of the production and art committees, and through service on the nominating committee. We recall with admiration Robert's prodigious knowledge of opera, theater, and contemporary art. These passionate interests were evident in his continual efforts to preserve the Met's heritage through his work with our archives, in his family's support for our pioneering production of Berg's ''Lulu,'' and in his own support for an all-Stravinsky evening designed by David Hockney. Robert's commitment to bringing the contemporary repertory to our stage is also reflected in his leadership gift for our production of ''Porgy and Bess'' and in his underwriting of our commission for Philip Glass's ''The Voyage.'' A founding member, with his beloved mother, Mag Tobin, of our Golden Horseshoe Program, he also gave leadership support to our first endowment campaign and to our current effort to secure the Met in the new century. A memorable presence whenever he was in the opera house, he particularly relished attending opening nights and premieres. We were especially touched this winter when, despite failing health, he remained almost to the conclusion of the supper he gave for the cast and the company after ''The Merry Widow'' premiere. We remember with deep affection Robert's abiding devotion to the Metropolitan Opera, his elegance, his passionate commitment to artistic excellence, his wise counsel during challenging times for our company, and his irreverent wit even in the most dire of personal circumstances. Robert's extraordinary personal courage during his extended period of ill health and his heroic effort to meet his Metropolitan Opera board responsibilities were an inspiration to all of us. Most of all, his passing is a profound loss to those of us who were privileged to know him as a friend. Mrs. Gilbert W. Humphrey, Chairman Emeritus Bruce Crawford, Honorary Chairman James Kinnear, Chairman Paul Montrone, President Joseph Volpe, General Manager
      