
        KIMMEL-June (nee Fischer). Born in Brooklyn. A graduate of Brooklyn College and Columbia University Graduate School. She was a member of the Board of Trustees & an assistant treasurer of the Board of Trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services. She also served as Chairperson of the Divisional Committee for the Adult Mentality Ill and on numerous other committees. She is survived by her beloved husband, David Kimmel, children, Robert Kraft and Diane Kraft Ward, grandchildren, Colin and Patrick, son-in-law, Philip Ward, and daughter-in-law, Ruth Breslin. She is the sister of the late Albert Fischer and widow of Leon Kraft. She is also survived by other loving family members. She died April 26, 2000 in her treasured NYC. Funeral services will be held 9:45 AM, Fri, April 28 at Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76 Street, NYC.
        KIMMEL-June F. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services deeply mourn the passing of June F. Kimmel, the assistant secretary of our board, a member of the JBFCS Executive Committee and one of the agency's most devoted, selfless and beloved leaders. Mrs. Kimmel joined JBFCS as a volunteer with the agency's Family Court program in the Bronx and was later elected a trustee of JBFCS and chairwoman of the Divisional Committee for Services to Adults with Mental Illness. While leading the committee, she became personally involved with the programs it oversees, visiting sites, demonstrating support to clients and staff members, and encouraging others to do the same. She also won the admiration of our board and staff for her commitment to building these programs, for her generosity and spirit, and for her empathy, compassion and warmth. Mrs. Kimmel, who also served on JBFCS' Community Services Divisonal Committee and the board of the Martha K. Selig Educational Institute, was honored for her energy and vision by the Alliance for JBFCS, the agency's young-leadership group. We express our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Kimmel's husband, David; her children, Robert Kraft and Diane Ward; her grandchildren; and other members of her family. Joseph S. Kaplan, President Seymour R. Askin, Jr., Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive Vice President Paul Levine, CSW, Associate Executive Vice President
      