
        KOSSOFF-Burton ''Buddy.'' On April 29, 2000, at age 76 years. Beloved and cherished husband of Phyllis L. Kossoff, devoted and caring father of Mitchell and Pamela Kossoff and the late Stephanie Lynn Kossoff. Adored grandfather of Joshua, Alec, Noah and Jeremy. Extraordinary man and magnificent friend. As a young man, Buddy enlisted and served his country during WW II with extreme courage and valor. As first lieutenant in the Air Corps, he flew 36 missions in the Pacific and was awarded numerous commendations including the Distinguished Flying Cross. Burt was a graduate and honoray Trustee of Baruch College of the City of New York. He founded in 1949, as pioneer in the packaging field, the Burton Packaging Co, Inc, for which he served for over 50 years as President and CEO until the time of his passing. His loving and unique being imparted radiance and the joy of life overcoming challenges and bringing a rare enthusiasm to all facets of his endevors. In 1954 he, together with his wife Phyllis, were part of a smallband of parents who organzied, initiated and maintained the beginning effort in the now National Cystic Fibrosis Research and Care organizations. For over 45 years Burt was dedicated and esteemed member, director and currently officer of the Cystic Fibrosis Association of Greater New York. A man of dignity and grace, Buddy touched all he met with his warmth and love of humanity. His strength of character, his keen intellectualism and his love of camaraderie embraced the myriad of his endeavors. An avid handball player until the end, he participated with joy as many years President of the Businessmen's Club at the YMCA and with unbridled pleasure in loyal support and love with many of his friends in the handball ''Killers Club,'' and the American Legion of the NYAC. Burt was a benefactor of many causes giving generously and selflessly in these efforts, all with a never-ending smile and with a personal banner of ''Carpe Diem,'' he marched fearlessly through life. Buddy dearest, you will be with us always in the shelter of your strength, your kind and gentle warmth and your unfailing, sweet smile. We love you. Services will be held at 1:15 PM, Monday, May 1, at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave, NYC.
        KOSSOFF-Burton. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Burton Kossoff, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who loved him be comforted. David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
      