
        LEVITT-Marvin, M.D. On April 27, 2000. Beloved husband of Anne, loving father of Jane & Jim, fond father-in-law of Robert & Mira, devoted grandfather of Emily, Paul, Madeline & Jonathan. Services Sunday 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Donations may be made to the Marvin F. Levitt Renal Endowment Fund, Mt. Sinai Hospital.
        LEVITT-Marvin, Dr. The faculty of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the loss of its esteemed colleague Dr. Marvin Levitt, one of Mount Sinai's true ''giants.'' Dr. Levitt received his MD from NYU, interned at Mount Sinai, trained in Homer Smith's laboratory at NYU, and then returned to Mount Sinai for what would be a distinguished career spanning more than 50 years. He held the Joe Lowe and Louis Price Chair as Professor of Medicine and was the founding Chief of the Renal Division at Mount Sinai. He was elected to the American Society of Clinical Investigation and the Association of American Physicians, and was President of the New York Society of Nephrology. Dr. Levitt was a superb physician-scientist who performed pioneering research in kidney physiology and diuretics, and helped to found the subspecialty of nephrology. He trained scores of students, residents, and fellows in the art and science of medicine, most particularly, how to listen carefully to the patient's history. As a brilliant diagnostician and compassionate healer he was beloved by countless patients. We will dearly miss his brilliant and incisive mind, his funloving sense of humor, the sparkle in his eye, and his gentle smile. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Annette and the entire Levitt family. Paul Klotman Chief, Renal Division Barry S. Coller Chairman
        LEVITT-Marvin F., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our long-standing colleague and teacher. Dr. Levitt was an astute physician, a dedicated and talented Professor of Medicine and the founding Chief of the Renal Division at Mount Sinai. He was a dynamic force in the field of Nephrology, educating generations of our students and housestaff. His greatest skill was teaching others to think. Dr. Levitt served our institution and its patients for more than fifty years. He will be remembered for his strong leadership, sharp wit, and expertise in teaching and research. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Stanley Tuhrim, M.D., President Terry Weill, M.D., Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
      