
        ZAFIAN-Henry J., a retired partner of the intellectual property law firm of Fish & Neave, New York City and Palo Alto, California, died on April 26, 2000. He was 78 years old and lived in New York City. The cause of death was pancreatic cancer. Mr. Zafian joined Fish & Neave upon his graduation from Columbia Law School in 1948, was Managing Partner from 1970 to 1976 and remained in active practice with the firm until his retirement in 1988. He specialized in patent and related litigation, often of long duration such as the patent and antitrust litigation involving the antibiotic tetracycline in Federal tribunals from the early 1950's into the 1980's, including proceedings in numerous District Courts, the Federal Trade Commission, four U.S. Courts of Appeals and the U.S. Supreme Court. He was born in Bayonne, New Jersey and graduated from high school at age 14. Upon graduating in 1941 from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn with a degree in mechanical engineering, he was employed as an engineer by General Electric Company until, after World War II began, he enlisted in the United States Air Corps where in 1943 he received a degree in meteorology from New York University and thereafter served principally as a reconnaissance meteorology officer, including weather flights in the North Atlantic before D-Day in Europe and service in the first hurricane reconnaissance squadron in the Caribbean. Mr. Zafian is survived by five children: Lisa Weaver of Slingerlands, New York; Tracy Zafian of Cambridge, Massachusetts; Amanda Zafian of New York City; Peter Zafian of Denver, Colorado; and Colin Zafian of Telluride, Colorado; four grandchildren; and a sister, Louise Stone, of Santa Monica, California. There will be a gathering of family and friends to celebrate Henry's memory on Monday, May 1, from 6:00 to 8:00 pm at The University Club (One West 54th Street, N.Y. City).
        ZAFIAN-Henry J. The partners of the firm of Fish & Neave express their sorrow at the passing of their retired partner, Henry J. Zafian on April 26. Henry was a part of this firm for 40 years including six years in which he served as Managing Partner. We will all miss him
      