
        BLACK-Eugene Robert, retired investment banker and longtime playwright, died April 24 at Mount Sinai. A memorial service will be held Sunday, 2pm, Saint Luke's Episcopal Church, East Hampton. Gene, as he was known, was born in Atlanta on July 19, 1924, the son of Eugene R. Black (later president of the World Bank) and Dolly Blalock Black. He got his bachelor's at Yale, served as an officer in the Marine Corps and attended Oxford University after World War II. Gene later worked for Lazard Freres, where he was an international general partner. He effected corporate mergers and acquisitions, helped invest for the firm's own account, managed Eurodollar loan syndications and represented Lazard at international meetings in Washington. He also worked for years in Brazil, advised Japan's Sanwa Bank and served the Carter Administration as Special Assistant to the Secretary of the Interior for Economic Development. Gene devoted great energy to public theater projects. He was at various times chairman of New York's Circle in the Square, chairman of the Mayor's Cultural Committee, chairman of the Mayor's Report on the New York Theater, and a board member of the Lincoln Center Repertory Company and Stratford Shakespeare Theater. Before and after retiring from Lazard he wrote 16 plays, usually under the pen name Franklyn MacGregor. Several plays, including ''Camelot Lost'' and ''The Cleansing of George Cuthbert,'' were produced off Broadway. He also wrote thrillers, screenplays and children's stories. His plots often turned on historical characters and scandals, from George Washington through the Kennedy and Clinton administrations. Gene was a man of huge good humor and zest for life. He seemed to know everybody and enjoyed dealing with people, ideas, food, golf, real estate and more. In addition to his wife, Susanne Hardwick Black, Gene is also survived by his three children, Susan Black Allen of New York, E. Robert Black of Beaufort, North Carolina, and Brittany Black of Palm Beach; two grandchildren, Lindsay and Clayton Allen; his sister Elizabeth Black Campbell; his brother William H. Black and his stepmother Susette Heath Black.
      