
        TOBIN-Robert Lynn Batts passed away on Wednesday, April 26, 2000 in San Antonio from complications arising from cancer & respiratory failure. He was born to Margaret Batts and Edgar Gardner Tobin on March 12, 1934. He was named in honor of his grandfather, the distinguished Jurist Judge Robert Lynn Batts, who was the Chief Judge of the U.S. 5th Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans. Mr. Tobin was educated in the Alamo Heights School District and The University of Texas, where he was a member of the Kappa Alpha Fraternity. His father died in a tragic air crash in 1954, and he returned to San Antonio at the age of 19 to set goals and direction for Tobin Surveys, Inc. He built it into the nation's largest and highest quality mapmaker to the oil industry. In addition to his business interests, in his twenties he became president of the Children's Service Bureau. He shared his mother's enthusiasm for history preservation and combined the two by placing welfare agencies in historical buildings. He also became production coordinator for the annual opera in San Antonio where he learned the repertory and came to know the luminaries of the musical world through the years as he worked as a stage-hand and carried the prestigious gold card of honorary membership in the local. He became a member of the Board of Directors of The Metropolitan Opera in New York and a member of its Executive Committee, a Vice-President, and Chairman of the Production Committee of The Metropolitan Opera. The same day he accepted the Board membership to The Metropolitan Opera, he was asked to join the Board of Directors of the Museum of Modern Art in New York and became Chairman of its Drawings Committee. After a major operation, he returned to San Antonio and his beloved Oakwell, his principal residence in San Antonio, which was named after his ancestral manse, a fascinating structure which was celebrated by Charlotte Bronte in ''Shirley''. With Oakwell situated on the Salado Creek, he was a descendant of the Canary Islanders, who had used the same water. Although no longer a sheep farm, the farm's role as a planned real estate development community with allegiance to the earth was paramount in Tobin's thinking. To Tobin, there were two major pieces to his life: Oakwell Farms and chairmanship of the Board of the McNay Art Museum. Theater and art have been Robert Tobin's life. A life that he willingly shared with anyone who was willing to look and/or listen. Generous to a fault, Tobin continued the family legacy of leadership and vision in philanthropy and the arts, devoting his energy and resources to philanthropic pursuits and the international arts community. Tobin focused many of such efforts to support and benefit the McNay Art Museum, Metropolitan Opera and Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Santa Fe Opera. He served as a Regent of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York. His gifts to the Tobin Collection of Theatre Arts at the McNay Art Museum has made the McNay Art Museum the leading center in the United States for the Exhibition and study of scene and costume design. Of his gift of the Tobin Collection to the McNay, Tobin stated ''Our world is limited only by our imagination, which being quite a lively phenomenon, is a living thing. The collection is not full of 'books and designs' but of 'creations' which fairly cry out to be seen, used, understood, and above all loved.'' For many years, Tobin was listed among America's Top 100 Collectors in Art and Architecture Magazine and in the top 200 collectors in ARTnews. Tobin is survived by his beloved dog, Samantha, and many friends and cousins. A public visitation will be at Oakwell, 3316 Oakwell Court in San Antonio on Wednesday, May 3, 2000, at 5:00 7:00 P.M. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the McNay Art Museum, Interfaith Center of New York, Santa Fe Opera or to a charity of choice. Following the private interment in Sunset Memorial Park, a private memorial will be held at a later date, with the Very Rev. James Parks Morton, Dean Emeritus of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York officiating. For Information: Porter Loring, 1101 McCullough, San Antonio, Texas 78212 (210)227-8221.
        TOBIN-Robert L.B. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns with profound sadness the death of our very dear friend, Robert L. B. Tobin. An honorary director at the time of his death, Robert joined the board of the Metropolitan Opera Association as a managing director in 1976. He has left a legacy of more than three decades of dedicated service, as vice president from 1991-1999, as a long-time member of the executive committee, as chairman of the production and art committees, and through service on the nominating committee. We recall with admiration Robert's prodigious knowledge of opera, theater, and contemporary art. These passionate interests were evident in his continual efforts to preserve the Met's heritage through his work with our archives, in his family's support for our pioneering production of Berg's ''Lulu,'' and in his own support for an all-Stravinsky evening designed by David Hockney. Robert's commitment to bringing the contemporary repertory to our stage is also reflected in his leadership gift for our production of ''Porgy and Bess'' and in his underwriting of our commission for Philip Glass's ''The Voyage.'' A founding member, with his beloved mother, Mag Tobin, of our Golden Horseshoe Program, he also gave leadership support to our first endowment campaign and to our current effort to secure the Met in the new century. A memorable presence whenever he was in the opera house, he particularly relished attending opening nights and premieres. We were especially touched this winter when, despite failing health, he remained almost to the conclusion of the supper he gave for the cast and the company after ''The Merry Widow'' premiere. We remember with deep affection Robert's abiding devotion to the Metropolitan Opera, his elegance, his passionate commitment to artistic excellence, his wise counsel during challenging times for our company, and his irreverent wit even in the most dire of personal circumstances. Robert's extraordinary personal courage during his extended period of ill health and his heroic effort to meet his Metropolitan Opera board responsibilities were an inspiration to all of us. Most of all, his passing is a profound loss to those of us who were privileged to know him as a friend. Mrs. Gilbert W. Humphrey, Chairman Emeritus Bruce Crawford, Honorary Chairman James Kinnear, Chairman Paul Montrone, President Joseph Volpe, General Manager
        TOBIN-Robert L. B. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and Members of its International Council are deeply saddened by the death of their dear friend Robert L. B. Tobin. A member of the International Council since 1964, and a Trustee of the Museum from 1976 to 1990, Robert served as Chairman of the Museum's Trustee Committee on Drawings and the Council's Program Committee. We shall miss his wisdom, passion, discernment, and wit. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art NY Sir Brian Urquhart, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        TOBIN-Robert L. B. ''Good Night, Sweet Prince And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!'' Alfred C. Brooks Peter C. Lombardo, M.D.
      