
        BLACK-Bessie Graham Hobson. (Known to her wide circle of friends as ''Graham''), lost her six year battle with melanoma and quietly slipped away on April 7, 2000. She was 77 years old. Her family surrounded her at her home at 12305 S.W. 73rd Avenue, in Miami, as her life ended. She was a lady of class. Graham filled her life and those around her with beauty, dignity, grace and love. A stunningly beautiful woman, Graham's optimistic humility inspired whomever her life touched to feel warm and good about themselves. She never disrespected anyone for any reason including race, religion, disability, sex or economic status. Graham also excelled in matters of the intellect. She graduated from Bryn Mawr College on a full academic scholarship with highest honors. She remained a thorough scholar, researcher, editor and reader throughout her life. Graham had a ''green thumb.'' Every plant she touched thrived and in her last days, she lay outside on her patio enveloped by brilliantly colored orchids of her own creation. The late United States Supreme Court Justice Hugo L. Black, her father-in-law, adored Graham. She is survived by her husband of 53 years, Hugo L. Black, Jr., a veteran Miami trial attorney; their three children and spouses: Elizabeth Black and spouse Peter Goodfellow of Auckland, New Zealand; Margaret Black and spouse John Gallardo of Los Angeles, California, and Hugo Black III and wife Jeannine Crowell Black of Miami. She is also survived by her brothers, Richard R. G. Hobson of Alexandria, Virginia, and Archer Hobson of Staunton, Virginia, and the 11 children of her late brother Edwin Hobson of Rye, New Hampshire. Graham was a founder of Saint Andrews Episcopal Church at the corner of Old Cutler Road and Mitchell Drive in Miami and took much pride in her service on the Landscaping Committee that wove the church and its buldings into a natural and spiritual setting. Graham was a member of the Royal Palm Tennis Club, the patrons of the Museum of Natural Science, the South Florida Orchid Society, Coral Pines Garden Club, Fairchild Tropical Gardens, St. Andrews Book Club, the Tropical Fruit Society and the Villagers. Services will be conducted at St. Andrews Episcopal Church in Miami by Bishop Calvin Schofield and the Rev. Marta Weeks at 4:00 PM on Monday, April 10, 2000, followed by a reception at the St. Andrews Parish House. Services will also be held on Wednesday, April 12, 2000, noon at Immanuel Church On The Hill in Alexandria, Virginia, followed by interment at Ivy Hill Cemetery in Alexandria, Virginia. The family suggests contributions in Graham's memory to the St. Andrews Episcopal Church Landscaping Committee or Fairchild Tropical Gardens. For further information contact Stanfill Funeral Homes at 10545 South Dixie Highway in Miami.
      