
        GRINBERG-Jane Fishman. Beloved wife of Efraim Grinberg, cherished mother of Margot and Sam. Beloved daughter of Annabelle and Bernard Fishman. Daughter-in-law of Sonia and Gedalio Grinberg. Sister of Mark and Jill Fishman, and Susan and David Kohen. Sister-in-law to Miriam and David Phalen, and Alex Grinberg. Jane was one of the most special people who was loved by everyone she touched. She gave so much of herself and never asked for anything in return. Funeral services Friday, May 5, 2000, 10:30 AM in Temple Sholom, 300 E. Putnam Ave., Greenwich, CT. Interment May 5, 2000, 3:30 PM in Haym Solomon Memorial Park, Frazer, PA. The family requests that donations be made to the Jane F. Grinberg Breast Cancer Research Fund, Mt. Sinai Medical Center, New York, NY 10029.
        GRINBERG-Jane (nee Fishman). The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jane Grinberg, a cherished friend and supporter of our mission and a key leader of the Jewish community of northeast Westchester. She served with distinction as chair of the northeast Westchester Women's Campaign and she was a member of the board and past vice-president of the Rosenthal YM-YWHA. Together with her husband, Efraim, she chaired the major gifts campaign for Westchester and served as a member of the Westchester Program Services Cabinet. We extend our deepest sympathies to her beloved husband, Efraim, to her sister, Susan, and her brother, Mark, to her in-laws, Gerry and Sonya Grinberg, and to her entire family and her many friends. May they be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        GRINBERG-Jane. It is with great sadness that Movado Group, Inc. announces the passing of Jane Grinberg, beloved wife of our President, Efraim Grinberg, and devoted mother of Margot and Sam. Jane's loving, cheerful and caring nature will be greatly missed by the many lives and organizations she has touched. To the Grinberg and Fishman families, the employees of Movado Group, Inc. express our deepest sympathies. You are in our thoughts and prayers. Contributtions in Jane's memory should be sent to The Jane F. Grinberg Breast Cancer Research Fund, Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, NY 10029. Services will take place at 10:30am Friday, May 5th at Temple Shalom, 300 East Putnam Ave, Greenwich, CT. 203-869-7191.
        GRINBERG-Jane (Fishman). Beloved friend, it is with profound sadness that we mourn her untimely death. Jane was an inspiration to everyone who knew her. She was a wonderful mother to Margot and Sam, a loving wife to her husband, Efraim, and devoted daughter to Bernard and Annabell Fishman and daughter-in-law to Sonya and Gedalio Grinberg. Her zest for life, her wisdom, strength and thoughtfulness will be deeply missed. We cherish the wonderful memories we have had through our many years of friendship. They will remain in our hearts forever. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and friends. Patty and Howie Silverstein
        GRINBERG-Jane. The board, staff and members of the Richard Rosenthal YM-YWHA extend heartfelt condolences to Efraim, Margot, Samuel and the rest of the Grinberg family upon the untimely passing of Jane Grinberg, devoted wife, mother, friend and board member of the Rosenthal Y. Jane loved life and made a significant contribution to all those whom she touched. She will be sorely missed. Marsha Newman, President Lois Rosenthal, Chair Emeritus Joel B. Karpp, Executive Director
        GRINBERG-Jane. Our closest, most respected, most loved friend. The lives that she touched will never be the same but will ALL be better. Our deepest sympathy to Efraim, Margot, Sam, Annabelle, Bernie, and the multitudes of family and friends. Jane's strength, attitude, intelligence and common sense will forever be a guiding light. Her absence will always be felt. Hilary, Peter, Benjamin, and Robb Blum
        GRINBERG-Jane Fishman. Our great friend & godmother to Eric. Inspirational and heroic-she was truly without equals. We are so blessed to have had such a wonderful and special person in our lives. We extend our deepest sympathy to Efraim, Margot, Sam, Annabelle, Bernie, Mark, Susan, the rest of her cherished family, and to all of her dear, dear friends. We will remember her always. John, Staci and Eric Barber
        GRINBERG-Jane. To our special friend-You enriched our lives with your intelligence, warmth and intergrity. You inspired us to strive for our best. Your friendship, strength and indelible smile will remain in our hearts forever. We love you. Our thoughts and deepest sympathy to Efraim, Margot, Sam, and the entire Fishman and Grinberg families. Lise and Jeffrey Wilks
      