
        DUGAN-Edward F. 65. Investment banker. Owner of Dugan Associates, Inc., an investment banking firm serving entertainment and media companies, died on May 19, 2000. The cause was complications from cancer, which he had been fighting for the past five years. At the time of his death, Mr. Dugan was a Director of S.F.X. Entertainment, Inc., a New York Stock Exchange company. Born in Jersey City, NJ, Mr. Dugan was a member of the 1952 St. Peter's Prep Basketball Team, which was nationally ranked and won the championships of Jersey City, Hudson County, the State of New Jersey and the Eastern United States. After graduation, Mr. Dugan spent two years as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Army, stationed for a period of time at Governor's Island. While at Governor's Island, Mr. Dugan obtained his M.B.A. at night from the Graduate School of Business of New York University. In early 1961, he joined the investment banking department at Smith Barney & Co. He founded the firm's merger and acquisition department, headed up the new business department and was President of the firm's venture capital partnership. After 14 years at Smith Barney, Mr. Dugan left as a Managing Director to become President of Warburg Paribas Becker, an international investment banking firm partially owned by S.G. Warburg and Banque Paribas. In 1978, Mr. Dugan became a Senior Vice President and Director of Paine Webber. In 1980, he founded the firm's media and entertainment investment banking groups as a Managing Director. He is left by his wife Susan and their daughter Kelley, as well as three children from his first marriage, Jamie Casale of Basking Ridge, NJ, Edward of Westfield, NJ, and Kirsten Freeman of Bernardsville, NJ, as well as a brother, Robert, of Jacksonville, FL, and three grandchildren, Daniel, Erin and Edward IV. Visiting will be held at Frank Campbell Funeral Home on Sunday, May 21, from 2-5 and 7-9 PM. There will be a funeral mass at St. Thomas More on Monday, May 22, 10 AM.
        DUGAN-Edward. The Board of Directors and residents of 14 East 90th Street are saddened by the death of Edward Dugan, a longtime resident, Board member and former President. Ed's friendship and good counsel will be missed. Our sincere condolences to his beloved wife Susan and their daughter Kelly. Paul P. Tanico, President
      