
        MAHONEY-David. It is with a painful sense of loss that the trustees, officers and staff of the Eleanor Naylor Dana Charitable Trust record the untimely death on Monday, May 1st, of the Trust's Chairman, David Mahoney. His singular experience as one of the country's most experienced foundation executives, his commitment to innovation and excellence in philanthropy, and his vision made his leadership one of achievement. His colleagues, and thousands of individuals and organizations who benefitted from his counsel and concern, have lost a rare mentor and friend. To his wife, Hildegarde Mahoney, his family and his many friends, we express our deepest sympathy. The Trustees and Officers, Eleanor Naylor Dana Charitable Trust
        MAHONEY-David. It is with deepest regret the Charles A. Dana Foundation announces that David Mahoney, its chairman and CEO, died Monday, May 1, of congestive heart failure at his home in Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Mahoney, former CEO of Norton Simon, Inc., and a philanthropic activist known for his vigorous support of brain research, was 76 years old. A Mass will be celebrated in the memory of Mr. Mahoney on Friday, May 5th, at 11 AM at St. Edwards Church in Palm Beach. A Memorial Service will take place in NYC in mid-May. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Harvard-Mahoney Neuroscience Institute, c/o Dr. Marilyn Albert, Director, MGH East (149-9124), 149 13th St., Charlestown, MA 02129.
        MAHONEY-David. The HarvardMahoney Neuroscience Institute is saddened by the death of David Mahoney, a man who was both a visionary and a leader. David realized early on that a national effort was necessary to support neuroscience. He founded this Institute and with his own style and grace brought brain research to the public domain. We are pledged to continue his vision of improved care for all through research. We mourn his death and celebrate his life. Marilyn S. Albert, Ph.D., Director Harvard-Mahoney Neuroscience Institute Harvard Medical School
        MAHONEY-David, 76, of Palm Beach, FL and Lasanne, Switzerland, died Monday, May 1, 2000. He is survived by his wife, the former Hildegarde Ercklentz, a son, David III, a daughter, Barbara, two stepsons, Arthur Merrill and his wife Monique, and Robert Merrill and his wife Christina, and seven grandchildren. A funeral Mass will be held at St. Edward's Church in Palm Beach at 11AM, Friday, May 5th, and a memorial Mass will be held in NYC, the middle of May. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Harvard-Mahoney Neuroscience Institute, c/o Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck Street, Boston, MA. 02115.
      