
        ROTHSTEIN-Sandra Zuckerman. Of North Hills, NY and Boca Raton FL. On May 24 after a valiant battle with breast cancer. Adored wife of Edward. Beloved mother & mother-in-law of Edward & Susan Zuckerman, Ellen and Kenneth Slater and Linda and Glenn Gruen. Loving grandmother of Sam and Jackie Slater. Widow of the late Philip Zuckerman. A unique human being who distinguished herself as a Board Member of the American Cancer Society of L.I. She was the Chairman of The Babe Zaharias Golf Tournament since its inception. Her life was devoted to helping others help themselves. Services Friday, May 26, 11:30AM at ''Gutterman's''. 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, LI.
        ROTHSTEIN-Sandy Zuckerman. American Cancer Society Volunteer, Breast Cancer Advocate and Friend. It is with deep sorrow that the American Cancer Society's staff, council members and volunteers express our sympathy for the passing of a long-time friend, volunteer, and breast cancer advocate, Ms. Sandy Zuckerman Rothstein. Sandy's inspiration, dedication and commitment to the fight against breast cancer has touched many lives in the more than 27 years she was actively involved with the American Cancer Society (ACS) as a volunteer. Sandy's initial involvement with the ACS was through her volunteer work in the Reach to Recovery program. Sandy utilized her breast cancer expertise in a positive way by providing information and support to women currently going through a personal concern with cancer and she served as an inspiration for all the women she counseled over the years. Sandy also gave tirelessly to the fight against breast cancer through her leadership roles on the ACS Board of Directors, serving in various volunteer positions including Vice President, Secretary of the Board and guest lecturer for the division's Patient Services programs. It is in her most recent role as General Chairwoman of the ACS Babe Zaharias Memorial Golf Tournament in which Sandy was able to motivate thousands of Long Islanders to join in the fight against breast cancer while enjoying two of Long Island's great pastimes-golf and tennis. Sandy's motivational spirit and dedicated mindset helped grow the Babe Zaharias Memorial Tournament into a million-dollar event since it premiered in 1972. Through Sandy's efforts and the efforts of her fellow committee members, this great event has flourished to include more than 70 clubs on Long Island with proceeds benefiting the American Cancer Society's programs in research, advocacy, education and patient services. The American Cancer Society extends our deepest sympathies to Sandy's husband, Ed Rothstein, her children, Edward, Ellen, and Linda, their spouses Susan, Kenneth, and Glen and her grandchildren Samuel and Jacqueline. Sandy's optimism and courage have been an inspiration to all those she has touched and she will be sorely missed. Funeral services will be held on Friday, May 26 at 11:30 A.M. at the Gutterman's Funeral Home in Woodbury.
        ROTHSTEIN-Sandra Zuckerman. Your steadfast love and friendship for over 48 years was a source of strength for me through good times and bad. I love you and will miss you terribly. Iris
        ROTHSTEIN-Sandy Z. The officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Sandy Z. Rothstein, and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Edward, and her children. Robert J. Capazzi, President Carol Rose, President Women's Group
      