
        BROD-Carol. On May 6, 2000. Carol died peacefully, at age 57, after a difficult four month battle with complications resulting from treatment for a brain tumor. Carol was, for nearly 38 years, the cherished wife, friend and constant companion of Ernie. She was the proud and loving mother of Joanna, Mara and Jon; the devoted daughter of Hannah and Milton Rodney; and sister of Jodi Rosenberg and Eric Rodney. Carol's professional life as a certified psycoanalyst was inextricably connected to both her family and her community. Carol graduated in 1984 from the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies and was, for more than 20 years, deeply involved with the Center's activities. She was a member of the Center's board of directors, was founder of its extension program and Dean of Extension Studies, and served as Dean of the library. She also supervised other younger analysts in their training. Carol was a member of the Society of Modern Psychoanalysts and maintained a private practice in Manhattan and Brooklyn for families, couples and adults. Carol graduated from Hunter College and received an M.A. in Philosophy from The City University of New York. She earned a Ph.D. in Psychoanalysis from The Union Institute and she both published and lectured in the area of dreams and their relationship to psychoanalysis. She also earned an M.S.W. degree from the Wurzweiler School of Social Work at Yeshiva University. In 1989, Carol founded and served as Director of the Brooklyn Seminars in Modern Psychoanalysis-a neighborhood outreach program for the Brooklyn community. Among her family, her many friends, her havurah, her professional colleagues and all who knew and loved her, Carol will be especially missed for her thoughtfulness, empathy, enthusiasm and indefatigable energy. Service Tuesday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, the Brod family will greatly appreciate contributions to either the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies at 212-260-7050 or the American Cancer Society programs for brain cancer at 800-ACS-2345.
      