
        HENRITZE-David Durham, 76, a well-known insurance executive, passed away on Thursday, May 4, 2000. He was Vice Chairman of Huffines-Russell & Associates. He was the founder of Insurance Underwriters, Inc. of Georgia, which was later sold to the Crump Companies of Memphis, Tennessee of which he was a Director. After the Crump Companies were sold to the Sedgwick Insurance Group of London, England, he was a Vice Chairman of Sedgwick James of Georgia, Inc. Mr. Henritze spent his business career specializing in handling the insurance and surety requirements for construction companies in the Southeast. He was a member of the National Association of Surety Bond Producers and the Georgia Association of Insurance Agents. He graduated from the College of William and Mary in Virginia and was a former President of the College's Georgia Alumni Society. He was a founding and continuing member of the Atlanta Quarterback Club. He was also a member of the Buckhead Club and the Cherokee Town & Country Club. He was on the Advisory Board of Reinhardt College at Waleska, Georgia and on the Advisory Board of Our Lady of Lourdes School in Atlanta. He was a veteran of World War II having served in the Pacific Theater with the Seventh Air Force. He was an avid traveler and an active golfer. He was dedicated to his family and friends and never met a stranger. His willingness to help people in need was legendary. He is survived by his wife, Katrina Sharpe Baird Henritze, his sister, Mary Lou Carter, his children, David Henritze, Jr., Fred Henritze, Ann Blonder, Bob Henritze, and his grandchildren, Evan Henritze, Morgan Henritze, Tyler Henritze, Hunter Henritze, Porter Henritze, Parker Henritze, Reeves Henritze, Rebecca Blonder, Paige Blonder, Zachary Blonder, Robert Henritze, Jr. and Thomas Henritze. Visitation will be Monday, May 8, 2000 from 7:00 p.m - 9:00 p.m. at H.M. Patterson & Son Spring Hill Chapel. The funeral will be held on Tuesday, May 9, 2000 at 2:00 p.m. at The Cathedral of Christ the King with interment at Arlington Memorial Park Cemetery in Atlanta, Ga. In lieu of flowers, family requests contributions be made to Reinhardt College for ''The Dave Henritze Schlorship Fund'', Reinhardt College, 7300 Reinhardt College Circle, Waleska, GA 30183. For more information contact H.M. Patterson & Son Spring Hill Chapel (404) 876-1022
      