
        MAHONEY-David J. The Board, Staff and entire membership of Research America honor the life of David J. Mahoney, Chairman and CEO of the Charles A. Dana Foundation. A visionary commited to making medical and health research a higher national priority, he leaves a legacy of inspiration and leadership for a stronger investment in research leading to the treatment, cure and prevention of disease-particularly neurological disorders. His forceful advicacy through the Dana Alliance for Brain Initiatives marshaled evidence for the designation of the 1990's as the Decade of the Brain and continued commitment to education and outreach via the annual celebration of Brain Awareness Week. We extend our condolences to his family. Honorable Paul G. Rogers, Chair Mary Woolley, President
        MAHONEY-David. The trustees, faculty, and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are deeply saddened at the death of David Mahoney. His leadership in philanthropy, especially his vision in establishing The Dana Alliance for Brain Initiatives through a meeting hosted at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in 1992, will provide an enduring legacy in fostering cutting-edge research and promoting public awareness of brain-related disease. He will be immeasurably missed as both a friend and colleage. To his wife, Hildegarde Mahoney, and his family, we express our deepest sympathy. James D. Watson, Ph.D. President Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Vice Chairman The Dana Alliance for Brain Initiatives
        MAHONEY-David. It is with deepest regret the Charles A. Dana Foundation announces that David Mahoney, its chairman and CEO, died Monday, May 1, of congestive heart failure at his home in Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Mahoney, former CEO of Norton Simon, Inc., and a philanthropic activist known for his vigorous support of brain research, was 76 years old. A Mass will be celebrated in the memory of Mr. Mahoney on Friday, May 5th, at 11 AM at St. Edwards Church in Palm Beach. A Memorial Service will take place in NYC in mid-May. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Harvard-Mahoney Neuroscience Institute, c/o Dr. Marilyn Albert, Director, MGH East (149-9124), 149 13th St., Charlestown, MA 02129.
        MAHONEY-David. The Trustees and staff of the Norton Simon Museum acknowledge our profound sense of loss with the death on May 1 of our respected Trustee and colleague, David Mahoney. He served on our Board with great distinction from June 1976, and we will always remember his strength, wisdom, commitment and charm. A great industrialist, David Mahoney was also, as Chairman of the Board of the Dana Foundation, a charismatic and effective champion for the development of neurosciences. To his wife, Hillie, and his devoted family we extend our most heartfelt sympathy.
        MAHONEY-David. The Trustees and Women's Board of The Boys' Club of New York mourn the death of our dear friend. His leadership helped found the Boys' Club's All Sports Hall of Fame Dinner and his generosity made it a continuing success. At this time of loss, we offer our prayers and sympathy to his beloved wife, Hildegarde, Trustee and former president of the Women's Board.
      