
        THIERIOT-Charles H. of Locust Valley, LI, on May 24, 2000, age 85. Beloved husband of the late Edna T. Thieriot, devoted father of Charles H. Thieriot, Jr. of Los Angeles, CA, Julia D. Thieriot of Round Hill, VA and Frances T. Thieriot of Santa Monica, CA. Step-father of Jeff Carpenter and Katherine Carpenter Schulte both of New York City, C. Nicholas Potter of Mill Neck, NY and Mary Carpenter Zagorin of Washington, DC, grandfather of Cary Potter, Christopher Potter, Jennifer Potter, Revell Schulte, Dashiell Schulte, Edmund Zagorin and Oliver Zagorin. Great-grandfather of Macy Potter, Nina Potter and Nicholas Potter. After graduating from Harvard College in 1937 he joined R.H. Macy and Co. From 1941 to 1943 he was in the Civilian Pilot Training Program in Amarillo, Texas where he served as a flight instructor. From 1943 to 1945 he was First Lieutenant in the U.S. Army Air Corps. His service included flying ''The Hump'' in the China-Burma-India Theatre. He was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross, The Air Medal and The Chinese War Memorial Medal. In 1945, he joined the securities firm of Carlisle & Jacquelin. He served as senior partner of its successor firm, Carlisle, DeCoppet & Co., until its sale in 1976. In his retirement he was, with his late wife, an enthusiastic owner and breeder of thoroughbred horses. He was a Trustee of The New York Racing Association and The National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame in Saratoga, NY. He also served for many years as a Fire Commissioner in Locust Valley, NY and as a Trustee of the Incorporated Village of Matinecock, Locust Valley, NY. Of his many chairtable and community interests, he was particularly devoted to St. Mark's School in Southborough, MA and the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York City, both of which he served as a trustee for many years. Funeral Service St. John's of Lattingtown, Locust Valley, NY, Wednesday, May 31st at 11:00 A.M. Contributions in lieu of flowers to Church of the St. Sacrement, Box 1185, Bolton's Landing, New York 12184.
        THIERIOT-Charles H. The Board of Trustees, medical staff and administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Charles H. Thieriot, a most generous benefactor and dedicated Trustee. As a member of the Board for over 35 years -during which he served in many leadership positions -Mr. Thieriot gave unstintingly of his time and vast knowledge in pursuing the high degree of excellence which the hospital constantly strives to maintain. He was a great humanitarian to whom generations of patients owe deep gratitude, and from whom we all can learn the true meaning of selfless devotion. He will be sorely missed and always remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to all members of his bereaved family. Richard L. Menschel, Chairman Aldo Papone, Co-Chairman Board of Trustees Russell F. Warren, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief Stephen A. Paget, M.D. Physician-in-Chief Philip D. Wilson Jr., M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief Emeritus John R. Reynolds, President and Chief Executive Officer
      