
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal, His Eminence. The Board of Trustees and members institutions of the Catholic Health Care system of the Archdiocese of New York mourn the loss of the beloved Shepherd of the Archdiocese who has gone to his eternal rest to be with Our Lord. A defender and champion of the poor, the sick, vulnerable and all those who are marginalized. His Eminence brought Christ's healing presence to those most in need. In the way he lived his life and the grace with which he faced his death, His Eminence was an inspiration to all of those dedicated to fulfilling the Church's healing ministry through the hospitals and nursing homes of the Archdiocese's Catholic Health Care System. His commitment to life-from his staunch advocacy for the unborn to his support of the tiniest of infants who began life at Our Lady of Mercy's neonatal unit; from the AIDS patients, whom he visited in nightly unannounced visits at St. Clare's Hospital to those who suffered with Huntington's Disease and were cared for at Terence Cooke Health Care Center; from those who were ravaged with the end stages of cancer and found compassion at Calvary Hospital and the sick who were treated at St. Agnes Hospital to the elderly cared for at Carmel Richmond, Ferncliff, Kateri, Mary Manning Walsh, St. Vincent dePaul, Terence Cardinal Cooke and St. Teresa's nursing homes, -whether through his actions or his prayers, touched us all. His faith in Our Lord was unwavering. His will to serve was inspiring. As Archbishop, his reach extended beyond Archdiocesean borders. Though truly a world leader, His Eminence was first and foremost a priest who followed his calling. As concerned with those who did not have adequate health care in Africa, the Caribbean, Central and South America and around the world as he was with those in New York, his legacy will perhaps best be measured by the care received by those whom he did not know and who in turn may not have even known his name. Despite his extraordinarily demanding schedule he always had time for a quiet moment of counsel, praise and gratitude to those who so willingly served under him. It was an honor and a privilege to do so, and for that we are eternally grateful. Our prayers go out to the Cardinal's immediate family and his extended family of New York. As beloved as he was in life so too will he be missed in death. As we pray for his soul, we also pray that his light may continue to shine upon us all. May the Lord grant him eternal peace. Donations to support the Archdiocese's health care ministry may be made in the Cardinal's name to: Providence Health Services Foundation, 155 E. 56 St, 2 Floor, New York, NY 10022 Mary Healey-Sedutto, Ph.D President & CEO Edwin S. Mruk, Chairman
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees and staff of Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System, Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center and Saint Agnes Hospital and Children's Rehabilitation Center acknowledge with a deep sense of personal loss the passing of His Eminence, John Cardinal O'Connor. His Eminence made extraordinary personal contributions to health care and education and tireless efforts to reestablish and revitalize the essential Catholic mission, that of providing the highest quality health care for everyone. We at Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center were very honored that His Eminence allowed us to name our Medical Center Campus at East 233rd Street in the Bronx in his honor. His Eminence had a particular fondness for our program at Rosalie Hall, our 28bed residence and shelter program for single mothers. He was very grateful that our medical center had a strong interest in the elderly, as well as our fragile newborns. He always emphasized the importance of taking care of the needs of those just entereing the world and those at the end of life. The lives that he touched will never be the same. We will miss him. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family, the auxiliary bishops and the priests, religious and laity of the Archdiocese of New York. Edwin S. Mruk, Chairman, Board of Trustees The Catholic Health Care System & Our Lady of Mercy Medical Ctr William F. Harrington, Esq. Chairman, Board of Trustees Saint Agnes Hospital and Children's Rehabilitation Center Gary S. Horan, FACHE, President and Chief Executive Officer Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York wishes to express profound sorrow and a deep sense of personal loss at the death of His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor, Archbishop of New York and President of this charitable Federation. Throughout a lifetime characterized by extraordinary accomplishments and service, Cardinal O'Connor was foremost and preeminently a dedicated priest, imbued with love of God and love for all God's people. His leadership and many initiatives on behalf of the poor and disadvantaged of the Archdiocese have been a source of untold strength to this Board and a special blessing from Almighty God. With loving concern, our Good Shepherd recognized the demands of our changing times and encouraged tirelessly the development of many new programs for the benefit of children and youth, recent immigrants and refugees, the aged, the homeless, handicapped and the sick. As the Shepherd of God's people, his concerns were universal as he devoted himself with apostolic charity and zeal to the welfare and the best interest of all, not only in New York but throughout the United States, the Americas and the Third World. We thank Almighty God for sharing with us the faith and wisdom, the strength and the talents of his devoted servant, John Cardinal O'Connor. His memory and example will remain with us as a lasting legacy and inspiration. The Board of Trustees of The Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York Most Rev. Patrick J. Sheraton Vice President Rev. Msgr. James J. Murray Secretary
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The American Jewish Committee deeply mourns the death of His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor, and we extend our profound sympathy to his family and the Archdiocese of New York. His remarkable leadership building human bridges of solidarity between Catholics and Jews is indelible. The Cardinal was at the forefront in the struggle to free Soviet Jews, to eradicate every vestige of antiSemitism, to commemorate the Holocaust, and to establish diplomatic relations between the Vatican and the State of Israel. In 1990 the AJC proudly presented Cardinal O'Connor with the Isaiah Interreligious Award, and during his distinguished tenure as New York's Archbishop, the Cardinal worked closely with us on a host of issues including healing the wounds of war in the Balkans and strengthening human rights throughout the world. Most of all we will always remember the Cardinal's warm smile, his exquisite sense of grace and humor, his constant wise counsel, and his esteem for Judaism and the Jewish people. We will sorely miss him. May the memory of this extraordinary man of faith forever be a blessing. Bruce M. Ramer, President Dottie Bennett, Chair Interreligious Commission David A. Harris, Exec. Director Rabbi A. James Rudin Director, Interreligious Affairs
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal, His Eminence. The Board and Staff of Providence Health Services Foundation of the Archdiocese of New York mourn the passing of our beloved Honorary Chairman, John Cardinal O'Connor. His towering commitment and fatherly concern for the sick, the poor and the vulnerable inspired us all to join with him in his valiant campaign to build a better future for Catholic health care. His Eminence was a fierce supporter of Catholic health care and worked tirelessly to preserve the Church's commitment to treating and caring for the poor. His was a sensitive leadership that gave us the confidence and the will to persevere in our ministry on behalf of the countless in need. He will be remembered for his impassioned stand on behalf of his own parishioners and as an international leader and advocate of our Church's healing ministry. To his family and his loved ones, we extend our deepest sympathies and prayers. May he rest in the Lord's eternal peace. May his powerful legacy and concern for life and for the living sustain us in our on-going mission. A gift can be made in memory of the Cardinal to Providence Health Services Foundation at 155 East 56th Street, New York, NY 10022. Mary Healey-Sedutto, Ph.D. President
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. On behalf of the Board of Directors, Administration, staff, volunteers, and patients of Calvary Hospital, Inc., and the Board of Directors of the Calvary Fund, Inc., we mourn the passing of our beloved Archbishop, Honorary Chairman, and dear friend, John Cardinal O'Connor. His wisdom, spirituality, commitment and leadership were an inspiration to all New Yorkers and to the world. His compassion in word and deed will continue within all of us. We are grateful to the life and love of John Cardinal O'Connor. He was a true friend to our patients; they identified with his suffering and he offered them hope. With sorrow in our hearts, we extend our prayerful condolences to the members of this family. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., MD Chairman of the Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Dennis E. Berberich Chairman of the Calvary Fund Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari President-Executive Director Michael J. Brescia, MD Medical Director James E. Cimino, MD Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute Richard J. Kutilek Chief Operating Officer Roy Clary, Exec. Vice-President Calvary Fund Admin. Council
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Sponsors, Board of Directors, Medical Staff, Administration, Employees and Auxiliaries of Saint Vincents Catholic Medical Centers of New York, mourn with deep sorrow the passing of His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor. Through his wisdom and foresight, His Eminence played a key role in the formation of our new Catholic healthcare system. His courage in fostering a formal relationship between healthcare entities in the Archdiocese of New York and the Diocese of Brooklyn has led to the formation of the largest Catholic healthcare system in the region and is helping assure the future of Catholic healthcare in our area. His Eminence was a true champion of the sick poor and it is our privilege to continue his legacy as an integral part of our mission. We will always be grateful for his wise counsel, his warm friendship, and his compassionate care for all of New York's sick poor. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family, his colleagues in the Archdiocese, and his fellow Bishops. The Most Rev. Joseph M. Sullivan Elizabeth Vermaelen, S.C. Co-Chairs, Board of Directors David J. Campbell President and CEO
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The leadership and staff of our 200,000 member health care workers union mourn deeply the death May 3rd. of our friend, ally and teacher, His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor. Cardinal O'Connor supported working people with every fiber of his being, earning him the title ''Patron Saint of Working People'' among our members. He learned respect for labor's rights from his father, a dedicated union member. The Cardinal championed workers' rights to organize, to bargain for a decent living, and to strike. He did so in deed as well as word. Cardinal O'Connor's humanitarian ideals made him a passionate advocate for those in need. He was a giant who rose above denominational differences, who spoke for the best that is in every one of us. When a group of labor leaders visited him in March, he told us, ''Without the unions, working people would have nothing.'' He urged us to continue our efforts on behalf of working people. In his memory, with love, sorrow and determination, we pledge to do so. Dennis Rivera, President 1199/SEIU
        O'CONNOR-John, Cardinal. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of John Cardinal O'Connor, a man devoted to God and his Catholic community and to promoting harmony among the diverse religious groups of New York. A great friend of the Jewish people, Cardinal O'Connor was a stalwart supporter of the State of Israel. He denounced anti-Semitism, preached about the horrors of the Holocaust and in this Jubilee year called for repentence for ''the pain inflicted on the Jewish people by many of our members over the last millennium.'' For his moral, spiritual and practical leadership in promoting intergroup relations, Cardinal O'Connor received ADL's America's Democratic Legacy Award. We will miss his wisdom, compassion and wonderful sense of humor. We take comfort in his legacy. We express our deepest condolences to his family, the Archdiocese and Catholics everywhere. Howard P. Berkowitz National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director Rabbi Leon Klenicki Director, Interface Affairs
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. New York Medical College is deeply saddened by the death of John Cardinal O'Connor, a strong supporter of our university and its mission of teaching, research and service. In 1997 our university awarded His Eminence an honorary doctorate, citing him as a defender of the Faith and of the dignity of human life; compassionate caregiver to the handicapped, the disabled and the sick; one who gave a life of service anchored by love of God to the great good of humanity. We will miss his guidance, his genuine interest in our college, and the opportunity to share with him our growth, progress and increasing excellence. He was a special friend of New York Medical College and first among our most ardent supporters. Ronald F. Poe, Chairman Board of Trustees Msgr. Harry C. Barrett President and CEO Ralph A. O'Connell, M.D. Provost Dean, School of Medicine
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. New York Labor mourns the passing of this man of hope, compassion and love-a man of deep faith and conviction. He was a champion of the underprivileged, the immigrant and all working men and women-a social consciousness imbued in him early in life by his blue-collar father. He has a history of defending workers' rights in the struggles of hospital workers, restaurant workers, newspaper workers, education and where ever disputes arose. It was through his joint efforts that our Council's Commission on the Dignity of Immigrants was developed. His was one of the first voices to be heard in support of the Haitian boat people seeking asylum and the American dream. His personal compassion and care for victims of Aids is renowned. All New Yorkers, regardless of their faith, will miss his warm smile, good humor, compassionate wisdom and temperate leadership. NYC Central Labor Council Brian M. McLaughlin, President Ted H. Jacobsen, Secretary Ida Ines Torres, Treasurer
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal, The Knights and Ladies of the Holy Sepulchre mourn the passing of our esteemed Grand Prior, John Cardinal O'Connor. He provided firm leadership in keeping the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem focused on providing encouragement and support to the Patriarch of Jerusalem and the Christians residing in the Holy Land. Cardinal O'Connor was a key proponent of the establishment of dipomatic relations between the Vatican and the State of Israel and steadfast in supporting the mission of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre in maintaining the Christian presence in the Holy Land. The Board of Councilors together with all Knights and Ladies of the Holy Sepulchre extend profound condolences to the sisters and brother of Cardinal O'Connor, and others in his family, as well as to the entire family of the Archdiocese of New York. His memory will be cherished by all. Martin J. Moran Lieutenant
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Archdiocese of New York has been deeply blessed these 16 years by the valiant and dedicated leadership of a true Prince of the Church. The Cardinal's wisdom, courage and deep compassion, love, and care for the poor have become synonymous with the name, John Cardinal O'Connor. He will long be remembered and ever loved by the people he served, and truly missed. We the D'Urso family feel privileged to have known His Eminence not only as our prelate, but as a special close friend. We loved him dearly and trust that he is now in the embrace of Our Lord and His Blessed Mother, who will say to him, ''well done, our most faithful servant!'' With a heavy heart, Florence D'Urso and her family send their profound sympathy, love and prayers to his sister, Mary Ward, the O'Connor family, and his fellow priests.
        O'CONNOR-His Eminence John Cardinal. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of John Cardinal O'Connor. The College was privileged to have had the honor of naming our South Bronx campus for the Cardinal, where his life and achievements can inspire generations to come. We join the Cardinal's family, the Archdiocese of New York, and the nation in mourning the loss of this man of faith whose devotion to the sacredness of each person, especially the powerless and most vulnerable, to racial harmony, to religious tolerance and ecumenism, and to justice is legendary. We mourn his loss and celebrate his life. Jean Baptiste Nicholson, O.S.U. Chair, Board of Trustees Stephen J. Sweeny, Ph.D. President
        O'CONNOR-Cardinal John. He was a good priest. He was a humble man. He was a good shepherd. He loved all of us and we loved him. He cared about us-and we all knew it. He used his gentle style to diffuse difficult situations. He was accessible to all of us. He respected the rights of workers to organize and urged everyone to honor the dignity of work. When he saw wrong, he spoke out to make it right. Thank you God for giving us your servant, John, who helped us all so very much to improve the quality of our lives. He was more than a good priest-he was a great man! The Federation of Catholic Teachers OPEIU Local 153, AFL-CIO Michele L. Cody, Pres. Edwina Dunne, Secretary Patricia Gabriel, Treasurer
        O'CONNOR-John, Cardinal. Henry J. Humphreys, Chairman, James D. Cameron, President, the Trustees, staff and residents of Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center mourn the loss of our spiritual leader, supporter and friend, John Cardinal O'Connor. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and members of his staff. Cardinal O'Connor's vision resulted in the creation of residential units at the Center dedicated to people living with Huntington's Disease and AIDS. His love for the developmentally disabled bears fruit in our mission to give hope to those for whom others have given up hope. Cardinal O'Connor's compassion, wisdom and commitment were an inspiration to all he touched, and will continue to inspire us.
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its Officers and Employees, celebrate the life of John Cardinal O'Connor. He was a caring man of great wisdom. His depth of commitment to improving the lives of all New Yorkers, particularly the neediest, has touched us all. Cardinal O'Connor has set an example for all of us in both his life and his death. May he rest in peace. William J. Flynn Chairman of the Board Mutual of America Life Insurance Company Thomas J. Moran President and Chief Executive Officer Mutual of America Life Insurance Company
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish Heritage-A Living Memorial to the Holocaust express profound sadness on the passing of John Cardinal O'Connor, a champion of the Museum and its meaning, and a man who sought to heal Judeo-Christian relations. So important to the Cardinal were the lessons of the Holocaust that he orchestrated a partnership between the Archdiocese of New York and the Museum, ensuring that thousands of students and teachers would come through our doors. As a result of his vision, future generations will be better prepared to fight against hate and injustice. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chairman
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees of Saint Patrick's Cathedral records with sorrow the passing of its President, John Cardinal O'Connor. His keen intellect, leadership, deep love of people and his unyielding devotion to church and country were among his many distinguished qualities. We shall sorely miss his great wit, wisdom and loving concern for all. The Board of Trustees expresses its condolences to the Archdiocese of New York and its deepest sympathy to the family of our beloved President. Thomas A. Coleman, Vice President Rev. Msgr. James K. Vaughey, Executive Director
        O'CONNOR-John, Cardinal. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York deeply mourn the passing of John Cardinal O'Connor, a devoted friend of the New York Jewish community. He shared our organization's passion and commitment to combating poverty, racism, and anti-Semitism. He reached across religious, racial, and ethnic boundaries to deepen mutual understanding and cooperation. We share the sense of loss felt by his family, the Catholic community, and all New Yorkers. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. Greater New York Hospital Association and the entire family of health care providers deeply mourn the loss of His Eminence, John Cardinal O'Connor. We wish to express our most sincere condolences to His Eminence's family, friends, and followers, to all Catholic health care givers, and the entire Catholic community. His Eminence provided inspirational leadership for all of society, and his commitment to caring for the poor and the sick has set a wonderful example for all to follow. Gladys George, Exq., Chair Kenneth E. Raske, President Greater New York Hospital Assoc.
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Intrepid Museum and America's military community mourn the passing of His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor. A military Chaplain for 27 years, His Eminence provided spiritual leadership to me personally and to millions of men and women in uniform. The Intrepid Museum honored him with our Intrepid Freedom Award last May, which he accepted with words of grace and dignity. America has lost a spiritual leader without equal. Our sympathies are extended to his family and to all those whose lives he touched. LtGen Martin R. Steele, USMC (Ret.) and the Intrepid Museum
        O'CONNOR-Cardinal John. The Officers and Directors of The Association for the Help of Retarded Children (AHRC) in New York City deeply mourn the passing of our revered friend John Cardinal O'Connor who throughout his priesthood had a special concern for people with mental retardation. The Cardinal graced AHRC with his presence at many special events over the years and last year in honor of our 50th anniversary was inducted into the AHRC Hall of Honor. His tremendous compassion for all of mankind will be greatly missed.
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. We join with all New Yorkers and indeed everyone throughout the world in mourning the passing of John Cardinal O'Connor. He was a friend to all, especially to the men and women of the Armed Services whom he served so honorably as a chaplain for 27 years. Our family honors him especially for his friendship and for his support at the passing of our uncle Zachary last June. His warmth, caring, and compassion will be missed by us and by people of all faiths. Tony and Anne Fisher and the entire Fisher Family
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The North American Boards of Rabbis mourns the passing of John Cardinal O'Connor. We were priviliged to partner with him in stregthening Jewish-Catholic relations. His legacy of compassion, caring and concern is an inspiration to all. May his memory be a source of blessing. Rabbi Marc Schneier, President Rabbi Stan Davids, Chairman, Interfaith Commission Rabbi Ronald Brown, Co-Chairman, Interfaith Commission Rabbi Jay Rosenbaum, Exec. V.P.
        O'CONNOR-John. His Eminence Cardinal John. The New York Board of Rabbis deeply mourns the passing of John Cardinal O'Connor. We admired his zealous battles against anti-Semitism, his commitment to interreligious dialogue, his support of the State of Israel, his devotion to the homeless and sick. We are all his mourners. Rabbi Marc Gellman, President Rabbi Gilbert S. Rosenthal, Executive Vice President Armand Lindenbaum, President Advisory Council
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The American Friends of Assaf Harofeh Medical Center, mourns the passing of a great man. Assaf Harofeh Medical Center, Israel is proud to have been part of Cardinal O'Connor's perpetual devotion to embracing and affirming the sanctity of every human life. Kenneth Kronen National Chairman Erica Reiter National Director Rhoda Levental Regional Coordinator
        O'CONNOR-John, Cardinal. The Richard Tucker Music Foundation and the Tucker family record with sorrow the passing of his Eminence, John Cardinal O'Connor a Tucker Foundation Board member and beloved friend. The Cardinal was a model of compassion, conviction and wisdom. He will be missed by all who value tolerance and those whose lives he touched. Jeffrey S. Tabak, Chairman Barry Tucker, President The Richard Tucker Music Fdtn.
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. We were honored to host a special dinner at the Intrepid Museum where His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor was the recipient of a special award in recognition of his spiritual leadership and his 27 years as Chaplain for the Navy, including three combat tours in Korea and Vietnam. We are saddened by his loss and the void this leaves in the lives of so many. Our sympathies to his family. Joseph A. Cabrera David H. W. Turner
        O'CONNOR-Cardinal John. The members of the Central Conference of American Rabbis are deeply saddened by the death of Cardinal John O'Connor. He will be remembered for his commitment to his faith, economic justice and for his strong opposition to the death penalty and to anti-semitisim, as well as his many acts of friendship toward the Jewish community. Rabbi Charles A. Kroloff, Pres. Rabbi Paul J. Menitoff, Exec. Vice Pres.
        O'CONNOR-His Eminence John Cardinal. The officers, Board of Councillors, area chairmen and members of the American Association of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta express their profound sorrow at the passing of their Conventual Chaplain His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor. His dedication to the Order and his work on behalf of the sick and the poor and his dedication to the sanctification of life will be with us always. Our prayers are with the members of his family.
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The board and staff of the Cooke Center for Learning and Development mourn the loss and celebrate the life of our honorary Chairman, John Cardinal O'Connor. His Eminence was a devoted friend to persons with special needs and his support of our efforts to provide quality, inclusive education will be deeply missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family Karen P. Robards, President Michael Termini, Exec. Director
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees and Directors of Pregnancy Care Center mourn the passing of our beloved John Cardinal O'Connor. His wisdom, leadership and tireless efforts on behalf of the rights of the ''Unborn'' will always be remembered. Cardinal O'Connor's entire life reflected the goodness, the grandeur and the majesty of God. Now, he is at rest for all eternity in His love. Mary W. d'Ablemont, Chairman of the Board
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. My most sincere condolences to Mary, Dorothy and Thomas and the entire family of His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor. The Church and our nation have lost an outstanding spiritual leader. He was a friend and an inspiration and provided me direction and encouragement. My sympathies are extened to all those whose lives were touched by this great man of God. Bill White
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of our beloved Honorary Member John Cardinal O'Connor, a treasured friend of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy J. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian
        O'CONNOR-John, Cardinal. The Orthodox Union records with deep sadness the passing of a towering figure of guidance and inspiration to his flock, and a principled, compassionate friend to the Jewish people and to all humanity. Mandell I. Ganchrow, M.D., President Rabbi Raphael Butler, Executive Vice-President
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The New York Foundling Hospital mourns the loss of his Eminence, John Cardinal O'Connor. His humanitarian devotion to children and families in need will be remembered and sorely missed. Sister Carol Barnes, Chairperson Board of Trustees Michael Garber, Exec. Director
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Tropical Disease Center and The Center for International Health and Cooperation records with sorrow the passing of our beloved Director, John Cardinal O'Connor. Kevin M. Cahill, M.D. President
        O'CONNOR-Cardinal John. A great humanitarian, leader and friend of the Jewish people and Israel has been lost. Rabbi Kenneth Hain, President Rabbi Steven Dworken, Exec. VP Rabbi Fabian Schonfeld, Chairman, Interreligious Affairs
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The American Irish Historical Society records with sorrow the passing of its former Gold Medalist, John Cardinal O'Connor. Kevin M. Cahill, M.D. President-General
        O'CONNOR-Cardinal John. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Cardinal John O'Connor, & send condolences to his family.
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The heart knows no rhetoric of words. We'll know where to find you...at the right hand of G-d. Devotedly, Sandi Merle
      