
        SCHLUGER-Joseph. Husband of Charlotte. Father of Neil, Olga and James. Father-in-law of Leona, Phil and Rosemary. Grandfather of Jenny, Aaron, Martha, Benjamin, Adam, Julia, Hannah and Jack. Brother of Bernard, Nancy, Ray, Abie, Millie, Betty and Jack. On May 14, 2000. His long and distinguished career as a physician was spent mainly at Long Island College Hospital, where he established the cardiac catheterization laboratory and served as Professor of Clinical Medicine (SUNY Downstate) and Chairman of the Department of Medicine. In his practice, he provided extraordinary care to patients for more than 35 years. At the New York Heart Association, he lead the Emergency Cardiac Care Committee and developed standards for care which are now used in hospitals throughout New York. He served as President of the NYHA with distinction. In his later years, he became a valued consultant to Medical Liability Mutual and he was a talented artisan of the Isabel O'Neil Studios. Funeral services Tuesday, May 16th, 9:15AM, at Frank Campbell, 81st St. & Madison. Contributions in his memory should be made to The American Heart Association, NYC Affiliate, 122 E. 42 St., NYC 10168 or the Berkshire Natural Resources Council, 20 Bank Row, Pittsfield, MA. 01201. No Flowers Please.
        SCHLUGER-Joseph, MD. The physicians in the Department of Internal Medicine of Long Island College Hospital mourn the passing of Joseph Schluger, MD, former Chairman of the Department. Dr. Schluger was a distinguished educator of many house staff and fellows in the Division of Cardiology during his tenure as an Attending Physician from 1953-1990. His outstanding stature as a Cardiologist and his excellent administrative skills as Chairman were a bright spot at the hospital for these many years. Our sincere sympathy is extended to his wife Charlotte, their children Dr. Neal, Olga Prince, and Dr. James and his extended family. Department of Internal Medicine Long Island College Hospital Frank DiPillo, MD, Chairman
        SCHLUGER-Joseph, MD. The Board of Regents and Administration of Long Island College Hospital joins the physicians and staff of the Department of Internal Medicine in mourning the passing of Joseph Schluger, MD, former Chairman of Medicine. Dr. Schluger served the hospital and its patients for nearly 40 years as both physician and administrator. To his wife and children, the entire Schluger family, and all of Dr. Schluger's loved ones, we extend our deepest sympathy. John D. Wren III, Chairman, Board of Regents Allan Gibofsky, MD, JD, President and Chief Executive Officer Edmund Giegerich, MD, Senior Vice President, Medical Affairs
        SCHLUGER-Joseph. Dear cousin, precious friend. His superb medical care and penetrating personal concern for our welfare have enriched us one and all these many years. We are in his debt for his ready humor, his varied talents and interests, and his incisive judgements. He gladdened the hearts of his many friends and his own family. The world, without him, is a sadder place today. The Sussmans: Al, Bernard, Dan, Kate, Jill, Phyllis, Rachel and Melanie
        SCHLUGER-Joseph, MD. The Medical Staff of Long Island College Hospital acknowledges with sadness the passing of our esteemed friend and highly respected colleague, Joseph Schluger, MD. To his wife, children, grandchildren, and to all those who loved him, we extend our heartfelt condolences. The Medical Staff of Long Island College Hospital Jagdish K. Gupta, MD, President
        SCHLUGER-Joseph, MD. We deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend, Joseph Schluger, MD. He was a wonderful friend as well as a role model and mentor. He will be deeply missed, but his memory will forever live in our hearts. We express our sincere condolences to his beloved family. Dr. and Mrs. Daniel D. Ricciardi
        SCHLUGER-Joseph, MD. West End Temple, Neponsit, New York mourns the passing of an esteemed member and extends to his wife, Charlotte and family heartfelt sympathy.
      