
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees, Faculty, Administration, Staff and Student Body of the College of Mount Saint Vincent mourns the passing of the Archbishop of New York, John Cardinal O'Connor. As a community of learners, and seekers of wisdom and understanding, the College community is pleased to have shared Cardinal O'Connor's commitment, service and passion to building a better communitywithin the New York Archdiocesethrough education. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family, the auxiliary bishops and priests, religious and laity of the Archdiocese of New York. Joseph Decaminada, Chair, Board of Trustees Dr. Mary C. Stuart, President
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. His Eminence honored North General Hospital with a special ceremony celebrating the opening of our chapel. We extend our most sincere condolences to His Eminence's family, friends and followers. His wisdom, leadership and commitment to the sick and the poor were an inspiration to New York's health care providers. Livingston S. Francis, Chairman Board of Trustees Harold P. Freeman, MD President and CEO North General Hospital
        O'CONNOR-Cardinal John. Agudath Israel of America expresses its sorrow and condolences upon the passing of John Cardinal O'Connor with whom we were privileged to work closely on many issues of mutual concern. He was a towering figure whose faithful commitment to the betterment of all humankind animated his every action. His vision and his voice will be sorely missed. David Zwiebel, Exec Vice Pres for Government & Public Affairs
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns an eminent moral leader whose ministry extended beyond New York in support of religious freedom and human rights everywhere. Rabbi Arthur Schneier, President Reverend Joseph O'Hare, Vice President Dr. H.C. Read, Vice President
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a revered friend of our congregation. He spoke to us with great love and understanding. May he rest in enternal peace. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. With John Joseph sheperding, as our Redemptive Companion in America following Jesus Risen, progress happens. Likewise, we rejoice with salvation that another life has fulfilled commencement. Michael E. Samuels
      