
        FLEMING-Gus. With great sadness, the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Gus Fleming, Director of Lincoln Center's Avery Fisher and Alice Tully Concert Halls since 1988. Gus passed away on Saturday, May 6, 2000, at his home in Mount Vernon, NY. Gus' twelve-year tenure at Lincoln Center was one that was particularly innovative, creative, and effective. He was the force that pushed the halls very early on into the new age of technology and implemented new hall marketing, co-production, and box office systems. From actor, to musician, to producer, to facilities director, he knew and loved the business of the performing arts. Prior to his appointment as Director of Lincoln Center's Concert Halls, Gus was the line producer for Lincoln Center Out of Doors and the Community Holiday Festival, and Co-Artistic Coordinator of Roots of American Music, which continued throughout his tenure at Lincoln Center. He was also the line producer for New York's JVC Jazz Festival, the field manager for the Grande Parade de Jazz in Nice, France, and one of three producers of the Off-Broadway play, Split Second. Gus was also instrumental in working the Caribbean Cultural Center on the Caribbean Expressions Festival. Gus played bass and sang with the Wickers Creek Bluegrass Band for the last two years. His commitment and passion will be sorely missed, he will be fondly remembered by his many friends and colleagues at Lincoln Center. We send our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Kimberlee Kimes Fleming; their children, Joshua, Samuel, Helene Elizabeth (Holly), and John Nicholas; his mother, Clara Fleming; his sister, Dorothy Ohlendorf, and his large and loving extended family. Memorial contributions can be made to Jansen Memorial Hospice, 69 Main St., Tuckahoe, NY 10707. A memorial service will be held on Tuesday, May 30, at 4:30 PM, in Avery Fisher Hall, Broadway at 64th Street. Beverly Sills, Chairman Nathan Leventhal, President
      