
        KOSSOFF-Burton ''Buddy.'' On April 29, 2000, at age 76 years. Beloved and cherished husband of Phyllis L. Kossoff, devoted and caring father of Mitchell and Pamela Kossoff and the late Stephanie Lynn Kossoff. Adored grandfather of Joshua, Alec, Noah and Jeremy. Treasured brother of Ira and Edie, Arnold and Esther and 'Laine. Extraordinary man and magnificent friend. As a young man, Buddy enlisted and served his country during WW II with extreme courage and valor. As first lieutenant in the Air Corps, he flew 36 missions in the Pacific and was awarded numerous commendations including the Distinguished Flying Cross. Burt was a graduate and honorary Trustee of Baruch College of the City of New York. He founded in 1949, as pioneer in the packaging field, the Burton Packaging Co, Inc, for which he served for over 50 years as President and CEO until the time of his passing. His loving and unique being imparted radiance and the joy of life overcoming challenges and bringing a rare enthusiasm to all facets of his endevors. In 1954 he, together with his wife Phyllis, were part of a smallband of parents who organzied, initiated and maintained the beginning effort in the now National Cystic Fibrosis Research and Care organizations. For over 45 years Burt was dedicated and esteemed member, director and currently officer of the Cystic Fibrosis Association of Greater New York. A man of dignity and grace, Buddy touched all he met with his warmth and love of humanity. His strength of character, his keen intellectualism and his love of camaraderie embraced the myriad of his endeavors. A tennis enthusiast and avid handball player until the end, he participated with joy as many years President of the Businessmen's Club at the YMCA and with unbridled pleasure in loyal support and love with many of his friends in the handball ''Killers Club,'' and the American Legion of the NYAC. Burt was a past President of the Young Presidents Organization and benefactor of many causes giving generously and selflessly in these efforts, all with a never-ending smile and with a personal banner of ''Carpe Diem,'' he marched fearlessly through life. Buddy dearest, you will be with us always in the shelter of your strength, your kind and gentle warmth and your unfailing, sweet smile. We love you. Services will be held at 1:15 PM, Monday, May 1, at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave, NYC.
        KOSSOFF-Burton. The Cystic Fibrosis Association of Greater New York is deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Burt Kossoff, our distinguished colleague, who served with intense dedication for over 45 years as Vice President, Industry Chairman of our fundraising program and as a member of the CFA Board of Directors in support of research and scholarship grant programs to help broaden the horizons and bring the ''breath of life'' to CF children and young adults. Our deep felt condolences to Phyllis, his beloved wife as well as our ''fearless leader''; a longtime advocate for cystic fibrosis children through her establishment of the Cystic Fibrosis Association of Greater New York and as our dedicated and compassionate Chairman for over 45 years. Our heartfelt sympathy to his cherished son, loving grandchildren and to his entire family. Burt was an extraordinary fine man, who cared, gave and was genuinely possessed, together with his wife Phyllis in ridding our world of cystic fibrosis. His wisdom, generosity and kindness enriched the lives of all who knew him. Norton F. Hight, President & CEO Jerome Hershman, Secy. & Treas.
        KOSSOFF-Burton. The Medical Advisory Council of the Cystic Fibrosis Association of Greater New York feels deeply the loss of Burt and extends our deepest sympathies to Phyllis and the Kossoff family. Burt, in his wonderfully reserved manner, provided decades of enormous support, guidance, good humor and resources to the medical mission of the Association he so loved. James P. Smith, M.D., Chairman
        KOSSOFF-Burton. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Phyllis, his children Mitchell and Pamela and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President
        KOSSOFF-Burton. How will we get along without the one person who added class, good fellowship and bad calls to our weekend tennis games? It's going to be very difficult. Your Tennis Buddies
      