
        RAMOS-Paul. On May 18, 2000. Beloved husband of Roni. Father of Eva, Pilar, Sabrina, Yvette and Paul, Jr. Founding Director of the Betances Health Unit. Funeral Services Monday, May 22 at 11 AM at The Old First Reformed Church, 126 Seventh Avenue, Brooklyn, NY. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions to the Paul Ramos Memorial Fund, c/o Betances Health Center, 280 Henry Street, New York, NY 10002.
        RAMOS-Paul. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with great sadness the passing of our dear friend and beloved colleague, Paul Ramos, Executive Director of Betances Health Unit and former chairman of the Community Advisory Council of Beth Israel's Petrie Division. With tremendous passion and dedication, Paul served as a powerful voice for Manhattan's Lower East Side, successfully winning the battle to bring quality medical care to its underserved communities. He will forever be remembered by all whose lives he touched, and for his tireless efforts to help those in need. To his wife, Roni Sherman Ramos, the entire Ramos family, and all his loved ones, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Boards of Trustees, Continuum and Beth Israel Robert G. Newman, M.D. President and CEO, Continuum Peter A. Kelly Executive Vice President and COO, Continuum Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO, Beth Israel Gail F. Donovan Executive Vice President and COO, Beth Israel Ruth Levin Vice President, Managed Care and Network Development, Continuum Shelley B. Mayer, Esq. Vice President Government and Community Affairs, Continuum
        RAMOS-Paul. It is with a profound sense of sadness that the members of the Community Advisory Council of Beth Israel Medical Center-Petrie Division acknowledge the passing of our dear friend and a beloved community activist, Paul Ramos, Executive Director of Betances Health Unit. A long-time Council member and its former Chairman, Paul was a true advocate for his community and helped nurture Beth Israel's commitment to the people of the Lower East Side. His presence and spirit will be greatly missed. Our sympathies to his wife, Roni Sherman Ramos, his family and all who loved him.
      