
        STERN-Priscilla. Age 65. Wife of 43 years and steady ally of Rabbi Jack Stern. Loving mother of Jonathan L. Stern, David E. Stern and Elise R. Stern. Grateful mother-in-law of Rabbi Nancy Kasten, Jamie Gardner and Steven D. Cohen. Devoted step-daughter of Lili Rudin and sister of Steven and Gail Rudin, Jeffrey and Donna Laikind. Service Monday, May 15, 12:30 PM, at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Rd, Scarsdale, NY. Shiva will be observed at Westchester Reform Temple Monday evening, and at the Stern residence in Great Barrington, MA, on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday evenings. Contributions in Priscilla's memory may be sent to Hevreh of Southern Berkshire, PO Box 912, Great Barrington, MA 01230.
        STERN-Priscilla Rudin. The congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of Priscilla Rudin Stern, wife of our beloved Rabbi Emeritus, Jack Stern, Jr. With keen insight and abundant compassion, she cared for us as part of her extended family. Her poetry and prayers continue to inspire us, and her commitment to the highest ideals of Judaism have helped to shape and guide our Temple for decades. We send our love and condolences to Rabbi Jack Stern. Our hearts go out to Priscilla's children: Jonathan and Jamie, David and Nancy, Elsie and Steven; her grandchildren: Jacob, Nina, Lili and Benjamin; her brother and sister-in-law: Stephen and Gail Rudin; her stepmother: Lili Rudin; her stepbrother and sister-in-law: Jeffrey and Donna Laikind. Her father, of blessed memory, Rabbi Jacob Rudin prayed that ''when we die, there will be a light in our eyes worth someone's guarding, a heart worth someone's remembering, a mind worth recalling, a tongue whose wisdom death does not still.'' We cherish these gifts of Priscilla's, and so many more. Marjorie L. Miller, President Richard Jacobs, Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor Kenneth Chasen, Rabbi Joseph Boardman Cantor Emeritus
        STERN - Priscilla. Congregation Emanu-El of Dallas, TX, mourns the death of Priscilla Stern, beloved mother of our Senior Rabbi, David Stern. We express profound regret at her loss and offer our deepest sympathy to her family. We will always remember her wit, her warm heart and her joyful visits to Dallas. Board of Trustees Temple Emanu-El
        STERN-Priscilla. The Westchester Reform Temple Men's Club, with deep sadness, mourns the loss of Priscilla Stern, the wife of our esteemed Rabbi Emeritus Jack Stern, Jr. Priscilla's active commitment and counsel to our congregation, as well as our Men's Club for 29 years, will always be remembered. Our heartfelt sympathy to her beloved family. Edward I. Speer, President
        STERN-Priscilla. The Women of Reform Judaism of Westchester Reform Temple deeply mourn the loss of our beloved past Director. For many years she was a leader, role model, mentor and friend to all who were blessed to know her. She will be greatly missed but her memory will forever be in our hearts. Ellen Freiman, President
      