
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees and staff of Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System, Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center and Saint Agnes Hospital and Children's Rehabilitation Center acknowledge with a deep sense of personal loss the passing of His Eminence, John Cardinal O'Connor. His Eminence made extraordinary personal contributions to health care and education and tireless efforts to reestablish and revitalize the essential Catholic mission, that of providing the highest quality health care for everyone. We at Our Lady Of Mercy Medical Center were very honored that His Eminence allowed us to name our Medical Center Campus at East 233rd Street in the Bronx in his honor. His Eminence had a particular fondness for our program at Rosalie Hall, our 28bed residence and shelter program for single mothers. He was very grateful that our medical center had a strong interest in the elderly, as well as our fragile newborns. He always emphasized the importance of taking care of the needs of those just entering the world and those at the end of life. The lives that he touched will never be the same. We will miss him. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family, the auxiliary bishops and priests, religious and laity of the Archdiocese of New York. Edwin S. Mruk, Chairman Board of Trustees, The Catholic Health Care System and Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System William F. Harrington, Esq. Chairman, Board of Trustees Saint Agnes Hospital and Children's Rehabilitation Center Gary S. Horan, FACHE President and Chief Executive Officer, Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System Sister Diane Prusinski, s.m. Executive Director, Rosalie Hall
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York wishes to express profound sorrow and a deep sense of personal loss at the death of His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor, Archbishop of New York and President of this charitable Federation. Throughout a lifetime characterized by extraordinary accomplishments and service, Cardinal O'Connor was foremost and preeminently a dedicated priest, imbued with love of God and love for all God's people. His leadership and many initiatives on behalf of the poor and disadvantaged of the Archdiocese have been a source of untold strength to this Board and a special blessing from Almighty God. With loving concern, our Good Shepherd recognized the demands of our changing times and encouraged tirelessly the development of many new programs for the benefit of children and youth, recent immigrants and refugees, the aged, the homeless, handicapped and the sick. As the Shepherd of God's people, his concerns were universal as he devoted himself with apostolic charity and zeal to the welfare and the best interest of all, not only in New York but throughout the United States, the Americas and the Third World. We thank Almighty God for sharing with us the faith and wisdom, the strength and the talents of his devoted servant, John Cardinal O'Connor. His memory and example will remain with us as a lasting legacy and inspiration. The Board of Trustees of The Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York Most Rev. Patrick J. Sheraton Vice President Rev. Msgr. James J. Murray Secretary
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. On behalf of the Board of Directors, Administration, staff, volunteers, and patients of Calvary Hospital, Inc., and the Board of Directors of the Calvary Fund, Inc., we mourn the passing of our beloved Archbishop, Honorary Chairman, and dear friend, John Cardinal O'Connor. His wisdom, spirituality, commitment and leadership were an inspiration to all New Yorkers and to the world. His compassion in word and deed will continue within all of us. We are grateful to the life and love of John Cardinal O'Connor. He was a true friend to our patients; they identified with his suffering and he offered them hope. With sorrow in our hearts, we extend our prayerful condolences to the members of this family. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., MD Chairman of the Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Dennis E. Berberich Chairman of the Calvary Fund Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari President-Executive Director Michael J. Brescia, MD Medical Director James E. Cimino, MD Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute Richard J. Kutilek Chief Operating Officer Roy Clary, Exec. Vice-President Calvary Fund Admin. Council
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion deeply mourn the death of John Cardinal O'Connor, honorary alumnus of the CollegeInstitute. His spiritual sensitivity and administrative wisdom reached well beyond his own confessional community. His guidance and insight served to build bridges of understanding among the diverse religious communities of New York City. As a distinguished religious leader he helped his Church and our larger society so that humankind might triumph. His sterling character won the respect and admiration of not only those of his own faith community but from members of many other religious faiths. We knew that his untiring efforts had been directed to preserving the precious ideals and values which we share and that his labors toward understanding helped lead to the establishment of formal diplomatic relations between the State of Israel and the Holy See. May his memory be for a blessing. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman President, HUC-JIR Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Rabbis, Trustees and members of Congregation Emanu-El of The City of New York record with deep sorrow the passing of our cherished friend, His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor. We join with sensitive humanity everywhere in giving thanks to God for the nobility of his life and the glory of his accomplishments. With matchless integrity and indomitable courage, he served his Church, simultaneously reaching out in heroic and creative ways to build genuine bridges of dialogue and understanding with Judaism and the Jewish people. No one in the American Catholic hierachy past or present, has been as caring and faithful a friend to the Jewish people as was His Eminence. He taught both Christians and Jews that theological differences, though profound and decisive, need not be barriers to love and understanding. We will cherish his memory as a blessing and the legacy he bequeaths is inscribed upon our hearts and written within our souls. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal, The Knights and Ladies of the Holy Sepulchre mourn the passing of our esteemed Grand Prior, John Cardinal O'Connor. He provided firm leadership in keeping the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem focused on providing encouragement and support to the Patriarch of Jerusalem and the Christians residing in the Holy Land. Cardinal O'Connor was a key proponent of the establishment of dipomatic relations between the Vatican and the State of Israel and steadfast in supporting the mission of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre in maintaining the Christian presence in the Holy Land. The Board of Councilors together with all Knights and Ladies of the Holy Sepulchre extend profound condolences to the sisters and brother of Cardinal O'Connor, and others in his family, as well as to the entire family of the Archdiocese of New York. His memory will be cherished by all. Martin J. Moran Lieutenant
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Archdiocese of New York has been deeply blessed these 16 years by the valiant and dedicated leadership of a true Prince of the Church. The Cardinal's wisdom, courage and deep compassion, love, and care for the poor have become synonymous with the name, John Cardinal O'Connor. He will long be remembered and ever loved by the people he served, and truly missed. We the D'Urso family feel privileged to have known His Eminence not only as our prelate, but as a special close friend. We loved him dearly and trust that he is now in the embrace of Our Lord and His Blessed Mother, who will say to him, ''well done, our most faithful servant!'' With a heavy heart, Florence D'Urso and her family send their profound sympathy, love and prayers to his sister, Mary Ward, the O'Connor family, and his fellow priests.
        O'CONNOR-His Eminence John Cardinal. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of John Cardinal O'Connor. The College was privileged to have had the honor of naming our South Bronx campus for the Cardinal, where his life and achievements can inspire generations to come. We join the Cardinal's family, the Archdiocese of New York, and the nation in mourning the loss of this man of faith whose devotion to the sacredness of each person, especially the powerless and most vulnerable, to racial harmony, to religious tolerance and ecumenism, and to justice is legendary. We mourn his loss and celebrate his life. Jean Baptiste Nicholson, O.S.U. Chair, Board of Trustees Stephen J. Sweeny, Ph.D. President
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Officers and staff of United Jewish Communities deeply mourn the passing of Cardinal John O'Connor. His heart cherished every life as sacred. His words and deeds championed every human in need. His faith was an example to us all. We will miss him as a supporter of Israel, as an ally in the struggle against racism and antiSemitism, and as a friend of the Jewish people. We will honor him by continuing the dialog among religions in which his voice was so often heard and valued. Charles R. Bronfman, UJC Chairman of the Board Joel D. Tauber, UJC Chairman of the Exec Committee Robert M. Schrayer, UJA Federation Campaign Chairman Stephen D. Solender, UJC President and CEO
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees, Faculty, Administration, Staff and Student Body of Fordham University mourn the passing of the Archbishop of New York, John Cardinal O'Connor. The recipient of an Honorary Doctorate of Laws from Fordham University in 1984, Cardinal O'Conor was an ardent supporter of Catholic higher education. His presence at major Fordham events, most recently the dedication of our Walsh Family Library, and his pastoral concern for all members of the Fordham University community will always be remembered. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family. Paul B. Guenther Chair, Board of Trustees Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. President
        O'CONNOR-John, Cardinal. Henry J. Humphreys, Chairman, James D. Cameron, President, the Trustees, staff and residents of Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center mourn the loss of our spiritual leader, supporter and friend, John Cardinal O'Connor. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and members of his staff. Cardinal O'Connor's vision resulted in the creation of residential units at the Center dedicated to people living with Huntington's Disease and AIDS. His love for the developmentally disabled bears fruit in our mission to give hope to those for whom others have given up hope. Cardinal O'Connor's compassion, wisdom and commitment were an inspiration to all he touched, and will continue to inspire us.
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its Officers and Employees, celebrate the life of John Cardinal O'Connor. He was a caring man of great wisdom. His depth of commitment to improving the lives of all New Yorkers, particularly the neediest, has touched us all. Cardinal O'Connor has set an example for all of us in both his life and his death. May he rest in peace. William J. Flynn Chairman of the Board Mutual of America Life Insurance Company Thomas J. Moran President and Chief Executive Officer Mutual of America Life Insurance Company
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Yeshiva University family expresses sorrow on the passing of a distinguished humanitarian who championed the poor and disadvantaged, fostered intergroup understanding and cooperation, and expressed a compassionate sensitivity to the concerns of the Jewish people. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairman Executive Committee
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Ladies of Charity of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York celebrate the life of His Eminence, John Cardinal O'Connor, our Honorary President. His leadership has been an inspiration to us and his friendship will be missed. May his selfless life of boundless service to the Church and all people merit a shining reward in Eternal Life. Our prayers and sympathy are extended to his family. Joan Maguire, Archdiocesan President
        O'CONNOR-His Eminence John Cardinal. The officers, Board of Councillors, area chairmen and members of the American Association of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta express their profound sorrow at the passing of their Conventual Chaplain His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor. His dedication to the Order and his work on behalf of the sick and the poor and his dedication to the sanctification of life will be with us always. Our prayers are with the members of his family.
        O'CONNOR-John, Cardinal. The Pro Life Committee of the American Association of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta mourn the death of our beloved friend John, Cardinal O'Connor. He was a gentle man of great conviction. A glorious protector of human life from its beginning to its natural end. Lucy Flemming McGrath, D.M. Chairperson
        O'CONNOR-Cardinal John. A great humanitarian, leader and friend of the Jewish people and Israel has been lost. Rabbinical Council of America Rabbi Kenneth N. Hain, President Rabbi Steven Dworken, Exec. VP Rabbi Fabian Schonfeld, Chairman, Interreligious Affairs
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. Judge Walter and Mrs. Elice R. Evans, and the John Wesley Reese, Sr. family of Memphis, TN, profoundly mourn the loss of His Eminence, John Cardinal O'Connor. We thank God for his life, a blessing to us all. May we follow his example. Doris E. Reese, R.N.
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. ''Who can sail without a wind? Who can row without oars? Who can say goodbye to a friend without shedding tears?'' He now sails without a wind. He now rows without oars. But, I cannot say goodbye to this friend without shedding tears. Rabbi Moses A. Birnbaum
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. You have helped us wipe away the tears of the abused, neglected and abandoned children. Such is the Kingdom of God. I will miss your support and friendship. Dr. Vincent J. Fontana Medical Director New York Foundling Hospital
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. Your Eminence, we honored you in life and now in death. Your dedication to ecumenical unity will always be remembered. Billie & Irwin Meltzer
      