
        GRINBERG-Jane Fishman. Beloved wife of Efraim Grinberg, cherished mother of Margot and Sam. Beloved daughter of Annabelle and Bernard Fishman. Daughter-in-law of Sonia and Gedalio Grinberg. Sister of Mark and Jill Fishman, and Susan and David Kohen. Sister-in-law to Miriam and David Phalen, and Alex Grinberg. Jane was one of the most special people who was loved by everyone she touched. She gave so much of herself and never asked for anything in return. Funeral services Friday, May 5, 2000, 10:30 AM in Temple Sholom, 300 E. Putnam Ave., Greenwich, CT. Interment May 5, 2000, 3:30 PM in Haym Solomon Memorial Park, Frazer, PA. The family requests that donations be made to the Jane F. Grinberg Breast Cancer Research Fund, Mt. Sinai Medical Center, New York, NY 10029.
        GRINBERG-Jane (nee Fishman). The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jane Grinberg, a cherished friend and supporter of our mission and a key leader of the Jewish community of Northeast Westchester. She served with distinction as chair of the Northeast Westchester Women's Campaign and she was a member of the board and past vice-president of the Rosenthal YM-YWHA. Together with her husband, Efraim, she chaired the major gifts campaign for Westchester and served as a member of the Westchester Program Services Cabinet. We extend our deepest sympathies to her beloved husband, Efraim, to her children, Margot and Sam, to her parents, Bernard and Annabelle Fishman, to her sister, Susan, and her brother, Mark, to her in-laws, Gerry and Sonya Grinberg, and to her entire family and her many friends. May they be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judith Stern Peck, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        GRINBERG-Jane Fishman. Our dear Jane, you have given us the gift of love and friendship that has enriched our lives in every way. Your intelligence, wit and strength have been a constant source of inspiration. Your commitment to the values and standards that you have so passionately embraced has been an exemplary role model to all. Your beautiful smile, elegance and incredible sense of style are indelible in our minds. We extend our deepest sympathy to Efraim, Margot, Sam, Annabelle, Bernard, Sonia, Gedalio and the entire Grinberg and Fishman families. Our hearts will be with you forever. Nancy and Elliot Alchek Joanie and Maurice Reznik
        GRINBERG-Jane (Fishman). Beloved friend, it is with profound sadness that we mourn her untimely death. Jane was an inspiration to everyone who knew her. She was a wonderful mother to Margot and Sam, a loving wife to her husband, Efraim, and devoted daughter to Bernard and Annabell Fishman and daughter-in-law to Sonya and Gedalio Grinberg. Her zest for life, her wisdom, her generous spirit and strength will be deeply missed. We cherish the wonderful memories we have had through our many years of friendship. They will remain in our hearts forever. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and friends. Patty and Howie Silverstein
        GRINBERG-Jane. To our special friend-You enriched our lives with your intelligence, warmth and integrity. You inspired us to strive for our best. Your friendship, strength and indelible smile will remain in our hearts forever. We love you. Our thoughts and deepest sympathy to Efraim, Margot, Sam, and the entire Fishman and Grinberg families. Lise and Jeffrey Wilks
        GRINBERG-Jane. To know her even a little was to be embraced by her goodness and warmth. We offer our profound sympathy to her husband Efraim, their children Margot and Sam, her parents and the rest of the Fishman family, and to her in-laws Sonja and Gedalio, and the entire Grinberg family. Charlotte and Moishe Green Andrew, Rachel, and Lisa
        GRINBERG-Jane. A most special person whose radiant light touched everyone she met and that will forever shine. It was a privilege to know her. We mourn her untimely death. Our deepest sympathy to Efraim, Margot, Sam & the Grinberg & Fishman families. Vivien, Henry, Sari and Nancy Karpf
        GRINBERG-Jane. The Officers & Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member Jane Grinberg. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband Efraim, to her children and other members of her family. Samuel G. Weinberg, President
      