
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York wishes to express profound sorrow and a deep sense of personal loss at the death of His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor, Archbishop of New York and President of this charitable Federation. Throughout a lifetime characterized by extraordinary accomplishments and service, Cardinal O'Connor was foremost and preeminently a dedicated priest, imbued with love of God and love for all God's people. His leadership and many initiatives on behalf of the poor and disadvantaged of the Archdiocese have been a source of untold strength to this Board and a special blessing from Almighty God. With loving concern, our Good Shepherd recognized the demands of our changing times and encouraged tirelessly the development of many new programs for the benefit of children and youth, recent immigrants and refugees, the aged, the homeless, handicapped and the sick. As the Shepherd of God's people, his concerns were universal as he devoted himself with apostolic charity and zeal to the welfare and the best interest of all, not only in New York but throughout the United States, the Americas and the Third World. We thank Almighty God for sharing with us the faith and wisdom, the strength and the talents of his devoted servant, John Cardinal O'Connor. His memory and example will remain with us as a lasting legacy and inspiration. The Board of Trustees of The Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York Most Rev. Patrick J. Sheraton Vice President Rev. Msgr. James J. Murray Secretary
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York joins New York's Catholics in mourning the passing of His Eminence, John Cardinal O'Connor. A trailblazer, he opened new vistas in CatholicJewish relations: fighting for the freedom of Soviet Jewry, the diplomatic recognition of Israel and the condemnation of antisemitism. His compassion and unfaultering respect for the dignity of all human life led him to eschew hatred and bigotry of all types. In New York, he was the first archbishop to address Solidarity Sunday on behalf of Soviet Jewry and the first to attend a Salute to Israel Parade. As the keynote speaker at our 50th anniversary commemoration of Kristallnacht, he used his homily to movingly identify with Jewish Holocaust victims, while describing himself as a ''spiritual Semite''. He was a pastor to all New Yorkers with the ability to move those of us who knew him and those who merely knew of him. His is a monumental legacy. His memory will surely be a blessing. Gedale Horowitz, President Michael Miller, Executive V.P.
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Rabbis, Trustees and members of Congregation Emanu-El of The City of New York record with deep sorrow the passing of our cherished friend, His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor. We join with sensitive humanity everywhere in giving thanks to God for the nobility of his life and the glory of his accomplishments. With matchless integrity and indomitable courage, he served his Church, simultaneously reaching out in heroic and creative ways to build genuine bridges of dialogue and understanding with Judaism and the Jewish people. No one in the American Catholic hierachy past or present, has been as caring and faithful a friend to the Jewish people as was His Eminence. He taught both Christians and Jews that theological differences, though profound and decisive, need not be barriers to love and understanding. We will cherish his memory as a blessing and the legacy he bequeaths is inscribed upon our hearts and written within our souls. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. It is with profound sadness we mourn the passing of a remarkable leader of the Catholic Church in North America. His constant efforts on behalf of those most vulnerable in our society is his legacy. His caring and compassion have set an example for all to emulate. We, in our synagogue communities, are grateful for his unceasing efforts to raise interfaith relations to the forefront in the Catholic community and for his ever-present friendship. We appreciate his groundbreaking work that led to formal diplomatic relations between the State of Israel and the Vatican. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family and the members of the Archdiocese of New York. The National Council of Synagogues representing: Central Conference of American Rabbis, Rabbinical Assembly Union of American Hebrew Congregations and United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. Members and officers of the American Federation of Teachers, the United Federation of Teachers, and the New York State United Teachers, mourn the passing of John Cardinal O'Connor. He devoted his life to building bridges of understanding between those of different faiths, races, classes and viewpoints. While no stranger to controversy, he was a gentle man who cherished civility. He was a champion of the poor and dispossessed, of immigrants and working families. We will remember his strong support for public education and the teachers of New York. We valued his friendship and his wise and generous advice. His death is a loss for New Yorkers and all Americans who have lost an outspoken crusader for the rights of workers and the cause of economic and social justice. Sandra Feldman, Pres. AFT Tom Hobart, Pres. NYSUT Randi Weingarten, Pres. UFT
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The officers and members of the Newspaper Guild of New York note with the greatest sorrow the passing of our dear friend, His Eminence The Cardinal. John O'Connor was a man devoted to his faith, to the welfare of what he lovingly called ''the human person,'' and to helping the organized working men and women in New York's communications industry to achieve fairness in the workplace and equity in their careers. He was proud to be called ''a union guy.'' We were proud to have known him. He will surely be missed, and he will surely be remembered. Barry F. Lipton, President William J. O'Meara, Secy-Treas. Peter Szekely, Chairperson Newspaper Guild of New York, CWA Local 31003
        O'CONNOR-Cardinal John. In memorium. Cardinal O'Connor was a good and humble man. With gentle style, he worked tirelessly to diffuse difficult situations. Cardinal O'Connor represented the rights of workers and often reached out to the teachers of the Archdiocese of New York. He was adamant about keeping our Catholic schools open and giving all children the opportunity to receive quality education. True, he was a good priest and a good man, but to us he was also a strong advocate of Catholic education. He will be sorely missed. The Federation of Catholic Teachers OPEIU Local 153, AFL-CIO Michele L. Cody-MacDonald, President Edwina Dunne, Secretary Patricia Gabriel, Treasurer
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its Officers and Employees, celebrate the life of John Cardinal O'Connor. He was a caring man of great wisdom. His depth of commitment to improving the lives of all New Yorkers, particularly the neediest, has touched us all. Cardinal O'Connor has set an example for all of us in both his life and his death. May he rest in peace. William J. Flynn Chairman of the Board Mutual of America Life Insurance Company Thomas J. Moran President and Chief Executive Officer Mutual of America Life Insurance Company
        O'CONNOR-Cardinal John. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations joins in mourning the loss of John Cardinal O'Connor. His outspoken opposition to racism and anti-Semitism, his support for Israel and leadership in furthering Vatican-Israel relations, and his special friendship for the jewish community will always be remembered. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Malcolm I. Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. Our city and our Church will sorely miss this man of prayer and humor. We have been inspired by his compassionate outreach to the poor and vulnerable. We have been strengthened by his leadership in ecumenical activities and civic reconciliation. We extend our prayers and sympathy to his family and flock. Ellen and Robert Shafer
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. We mourn the loss of this good shepherd, defender of the defenseless who loved the sinner. We celebrate today the ascendancy of this good priest whose wisdom, capassion and leadership form a template for those who follow. David McDonald and Family
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. You have helped us wipe away the tears of the abused, neglected and abandoned children. Such is the Kingdom of God. I will miss your support and friendship. Dr. Vincent J. Fontana Medical Director New York Foundling Hospital
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Directors, employees and volunteers of The Catholic Big Sisters mourn the passing of John Cardinal O'Cardinal, a great leader. His faith, wisdom and kindness were an inspiration to all. Margaret C. Sheridan, President
      