
        ROCKEFELLER-Rodman C. The Boards of Directors and the staffs of the Americas Society and the Council of the Americas mourn the passing of a good friend and fellow Board member, Rodman C. Rockefeller, who was a vital personality, deeply committed to the betterment of inter-American relations and the advancement of the goals of the Society and the Council. He also served for 15 years as the Chairman of the U.S. Council of the Mexico-United States Business Committee and effectively guided the work of the U.S. Council through a period of rapid change in Mexico-U.S. relations. He played a central role in the deliberations on the Fast Track Authority and the passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement in the mid-1990s. A member of the Board of Directors of the Council of the Americas since 1970, and of the Americas Society Board since 1991, Rodman recognized the role the two organizations could play to help foster free trade and investment in the hemisphere. He will be sorely missed. We extend our most sincere condolences to all of his family, most especially to his wife, Sascha, and his children, Meile, Peter, Stuart, and Michael, and to his grandchildren. William R. Rhodes, Chairman of the Boards Martha T. Muse, Vice Chairman Thomas E. McNamara, President
        ROCKEFELLER-Rodman C. The Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council and staff are deeply saddened by the passing of Rodman C. Rockefeller, our longtime friend and colleague. Rodman served on the Board of the Museum from 1989 to 1996, was an active member of the Council since 1982, and a member of the Museum's Committee on Prints and Illustrated Books from 1990 to 1993. Rodman's abiding interest in Latin America was particularly exemplified in his commitment to contemporary art and cultural exchange, and he contributed greatly to the Museum's programs in those areas. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Sascha and his children, Meile, Peter, Stuart, and Michael, and his grandchildren. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY Brian Urquhart, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Musuem of Modern Art
        ROCKEFELLER-Rodman C. The Trustees and staff of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation (Monticello) are deeply saddened by the passing of our longtime Trustee, Rodman C. Rockefeller. Mr. Rockefeller joined our Board in 1992 and served as Secretary and Vice Chairman as well as CoChair of our successful ''Jefferson Moment'' Campaign. He was an eloquent spokesman for the Jefferson cause and the International Center for Jefferson Studies would rank high among his lasting contributions. Mr. Rockefeller was a stalwart and generous friend as well as an extraordinary person and leader. He will be truly missed. We extend to Mrs. Rockefeller and the family our genuine condolences. Brenton S. Halsey, Chairman Thomas A. Saunders, Vice Chrmn. Daniel P. Jordan, President Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation
      