
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York wishes to express profound sorrow and a deep sense of personal loss at the death of His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor, Archbishop of New York and President of this charitable Federation. Throughout a lifetime characterized by extraordinary accomplishments and service, Cardinal O'Connor was foremost and preeminently a dedicated priest, imbued with love of God and love for all God's people. His leadership and many initiatives on behalf of the poor and disadvantaged of the Archdiocese have been a source of untold strength to this Board and a special blessing from Almighty God. With loving concern, our Good Shepherd recognized the demands of our changing times and encouraged tirelessly the development of many new programs for the benefit of children and youth, recent immigrants and refugees, the aged, the homeless, handicapped and the sick. As the Shepherd of God's people, his concerns were universal as he devoted himself with apostolic charity and zeal to the welfare and the best interest of all, not only in New York but throughout the United States, the Americas and the Third World. We thank Almighty God for sharing with us the faith and wisdom, the strength and the talents of his devoted servant, John Cardinal O'Connor. His memory and example will remain with us as a lasting legacy and inspiration. The Board of Trustees of The Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York Most Rev. Patrick J. Sheraton Vice President Rev. Msgr. James J. Murray Secretary
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. On behalf of the Board of Directors, Administration, staff, volunteers, and patients of Calvary Hospital, Inc., and the Board of Directors of the Calvary Fund, Inc., we mourn the passing of our beloved Archbishop, Honorary Chairman, and dear friend, John Cardinal O'Connor. His wisdom, spirituality, commitment and leadership were an inspiration to all New Yorkers and to the world. His compassion in word and deed will continue within all of us. We are grateful to the life and love of John Cardinal O'Connor. He was a true friend to our patients; they identified with his suffering and he offered them hope. With sorrow in our hearts, we extend our prayerful condolences to the members of this family. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., MD Chairman of the Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Dennis E. Berberich Chairman of the Calvary Fund Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari President-Executive Director Michael J. Brescia, MD Medical Director James E. Cimino, MD Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute Richard J. Kutilek Chief Operating Officer Roy Clary, Exec. Vice-President Calvary Fund Admin. Council
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Rabbis, Trustees and members of Congregation Emanu-El of The City of New York record with deep sorrow the passing of our cherished friend, His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor. We join with sensitive humanity everywhere in giving thanks to God for the nobility of his life and the glory of his accomplishments. With matchless integrity and indomitable courage, he served his Church, simultaneously reaching out in heroic and creative ways to build genuine bridges of dialogue and understanding with Judaism and the Jewish people. No one in the American Catholic hierachy past or present, has been as caring and faithful a friend to the Jewish people as was His Eminence. He taught both Christians and Jews that theological differences, though profound and decisive, need not be barriers to love and understanding. We will cherish his memory as a blessing and the legacy he bequeaths is inscribed upon our hearts and written within our souls. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi David E. Marrus, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal, The Knights and Ladies of the Holy Sepulchre mourn the passing of our esteemed Grand Prior, John Cardinal O'Connor. He provided firm leadership in keeping the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem focused on providing encouragement and support to the Patriarch of Jerusalem and the Christians residing in the Holy Land. Cardinal O'Connor was a key proponent of the establishment of dipomatic relations between the Vatican and the State of Israel and steadfast in supporting the mission of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre in maintaining the Christian presence in the Holy Land. The Board of Councilors together with all Knights and Ladies of the Holy Sepulchre extend profound condolences to the sisters and brother of Cardinal O'Connor, and others in his family, as well as to the entire family of the Archdiocese of New York. His memory will be cherished by all. Martin J. Moran Lieutenant
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The New York Public Library mourns the passing of its esteemed friend and Honorary Trustee, John Cardinal O'Connor. Cardinal O'Connor served as a member of the Library's Board of Trustees beginning in 1985 and was deeply committed to the goals of the Library. We are truly grateful for his strong advocacy on behalf of this institution and for his role in promoting its mission of democratic access to education and enlightenment for all. We join the world in mourning one of America's most influential religious leaders. Samuel C. Butler, Chairman Paul LeClerc, President Mrs. Vincent Astor, Honorary Chairman Andrew Heiskell Elizabeth Rohatyn Marshall Rose, Chairman Emeriti
        O'CONNOR-His Eminence John Cardinal. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of John Cardinal O'Connor. The College was privileged to have had the honor of naming our South Bronx campus for the Cardinal, where his life and achievements can inspire generations to come. We join the Cardinal's family, the Archdiocese of New York, and the nation in mourning the loss of this man of faith whose devotion to the sacredness of each person, especially the powerless and most vulnerable, to racial harmony, to religious tolerance and ecumenism, and to justice is legendary. We mourn his loss and celebrate his life. Jean Baptiste Nicholson, O.S.U. Chair, Board of Trustees Stephen J. Sweeny, Ph.D. President
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees, Faculty, Administration, Staff and Student Body of Fordham University mourn the passing of the Archbishop of New York, John Cardinal O'Connor. The recipient of an Honorary Doctorate of Laws from Fordham University in 1984, Cardinal O'Conor was an ardent supporter of Catholic higher education. His presence at major Fordham events, most recently the dedication of our Walsh Family Library, and his pastoral concern for all members of the Fordham University community will always be remembered. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family. Paul B. Guenther Chair, Board of Trustees Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. President
        O'CONNOR-John, Cardinal. Henry J. Humphreys, Chairman, James D. Cameron, President, the Trustees, staff and residents of Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center mourn the loss of our spiritual leader, supporter and friend, John Cardinal O'Connor. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and members of his staff. Cardinal O'Connor's vision resulted in the creation of residential units at the Center dedicated to people living with Huntington's Disease and AIDS. His love for the developmentally disabled bears fruit in our mission to give hope to those for whom others have given up hope. Cardinal O'Connor's compassion, wisdom and commitment were an inspiration to all he touched, and will continue to inspire us.
        O'CONNOR-Cardinal John. We at Central Synagogue join in mourning the death of Cardinal John O'Connor who served so nobly as Archbishop of New York. He was a wonderful & loving friend of our congregation. When our sanctuary was destroyed by fire, Cardinal O'Connor was among the first to stand with us. He understood our pain, reached out to our members and offered the facilities of the Archdiocese without condition. We will miss this passionate and great leader of our city's religious community. We extend our sympathies to the entire Archdiocese, to our colleagues and to all those who depended on the Cardinal's steadfast support & commitment. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its Officers and Employees, celebrate the life of John Cardinal O'Connor. He was a caring man of great wisdom. His depth of commitment to improving the lives of all New Yorkers, particularly the neediest, has touched us all. Cardinal O'Connor has set an example for all of us in both his life and his death. May he rest in peace. William J. Flynn Chairman of the Board Mutual of America Life Insurance Company Thomas J. Moran President and Chief Executive Officer Mutual of America Life Insurance Company
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. The Board of Trustees of Saint Patrick's Cathedral records with sorrow the passing of its President, John Cardinal O'Connor. His keen intellect, leadership, deep love of people and his unyielding devotion to church and country were among his many distinguished qualities. We shall sorely miss his great wit, wisdom and loving concern for all. The Board of Trustees expresses its condolences to the Archdiocese of New York and its deepest sympathy to the family of our beloved President. Thomas A. Coleman, Vice President Rev. Msgr. James K. Vaughey, Executive Director
        O'CONNOR-His Eminence John Cardinal. The officers, Board of Councillors, area chairmen and members of the American Association of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta express their profound sorrow at the passing of their Conventual Chaplain His Eminence John Cardinal O'Connor. His dedication to the Order and his work on behalf of the sick and the poor and his dedication to the sanctification of life will be with us always. Our prayers are with the members of his family.
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal. With John Joseph guiding, as our Redemptive Companion in America following Jesus Risen progress happens. Likewise, we rejoice with salvation that another life has fulfilled commencement.
        O'CONNOR-John Cardinal, His Eminence. A gifted leader, a blessed man. In grateful and loving memory. Trish Sheehan, Pat Sheehan and Family
      