
        GORFINKLE-Lawrence David. 56, on May 10, 2000, after a courageous battle with a sudden illness. Beloved husband of Alaine. Loving father of Joshua, Gwen, Lynn and Marc. Devoted brother of Irene Lowengart, Anne Schneider, Emily Watt and the late James. Son of the late Herbert and Evelyn. Caring uncle of Andrea and Jeffrey Schneider and Michael Watt. Service Friday 10AM Plaza Memorial, 91 St. & Amsterdam Av. Contributions in his memory to Chabad of Fairfield County, 57 Revonah Av, Stamford, CT. 06905 or Westchester Day School, 856 Orient Avenue, Mamaroneck, New York 10543.
        GORFINKLE-Larry. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation extends heartfelt sympathies to Trustee Anne Schneider and her family on the passing of her beloved brother, Larry Gorfinkle. Anne, may your memories of him comfort you at this difficult time. Our sincerest condolences to you, Howard and your family. Funeral services will be held Friday, May 12th, 10AM at the Plaza Funeral Home, 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New York City. David Taub, Chairman of Board Steven J. Frome, Alan J. Saperstein Interim Co-Presidents
        GORFINKLE-Lawrence. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the husband of our esteemed faculty member and Chairman of the Mathematics Department in the Upper School, Alaine Gorfinkle. We extend heart felt sympathy to her and her children and pray that they be comforted among all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman, Board of Trustees Albert Goetz & Jay Stone, for the Faculty Council
        GORFINKLE-Lawrence. Westchester Day School and Westchester Religious Institute mourn the untimely passing of our long-time Trustee Lawrence Gorfinkle, father of Joshua, Gwen, Lynn and Marc. He devoted countless hours over several decades to the betterment of our institution. David Savitsky, Chairman Caren Hammerman, President
        GORFINKLE-Lawrence D. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Lawrence D. Gorfinkle, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Paul N. Gardner, President
      