
        ROCKEFELLER-Rodman C. The Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council and staff are deeply saddened by the passing of Rodman C. Rockefeller, our longtime friend and colleague. Rodman served on the Board of the Museum from 1989 to 1996, was an active member of the Council since 1982, and a member of the Museum's Committee on Prints and Illustrated Books from 1990 to 1993. Rodman's abiding interest in Latin America was particularly exemplified in his commitment to contemporary art and cultural exchange, and he contributed greatly to the Museum's programs in those areas. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Sascha and his children, Meile, Peter, Stuart, and Michael, and his grandchildren. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY Brian Urquhart, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Musuem of Modern Art
        ROCKEFELLER-Rodman C. The Trustees and staff of the Institute of International Education mourn the loss of our good friend and devoted Trustee, Rodman C. Rockefeller. Rod brought great enthusiasm and dedication to his work with us, both as Chairman of the Development Committee and as a member of the Executive Committee. His keen mind ranged over a broad array of issues, and he could always be counted on to challenge and stimulate us. Rod had an enduring commitment to bettering the world through international education and played a major role in building bridges of understanding, especially between the United States and Latin America. We will dearly miss him and extend our condolences to the entire Rockefeller family. Henry Kaufman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Victor J. Goldberg, Vice Chairman Diane J. Paton, Vice Chairman Thomas S. Johnson, Chairman, Executive Committee Allan E. Goodman, Pres and CEO
        ROCKEFELLER-Rodman. It is with great sadness that the Board of Trustees of the New York Blood Center records the death of its former Trustee, Rodman Rockefeller. His generous support and leadership helped us to advance the science of transfusion medicine to the direct benefit of large numbers of patients in the community. On behalf of all associated with the New York Blood Center, we extend our sincere sympathy to the Rockefeller family. Robert L. Jones, M.D., M.B.A. President and CEO Howard Sloan, Chairman Board of Trustees
      