
        FEDER-Samuel Lamie M.D., 84, of Lenox, a renowned psychiatrist, died Sunday, June 4, at his home. Born in Philadelphia, PA on August 12, 1915, the son of Max and Fannie Feder, he attended schools there and received his Bachelor's degree, Magna Cum Laude, from Harvard College in 1937 where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He earned his Medical Degree from Harvard Medical School in 1941 where he was elected to Alpha Omega Alpha Society. He was a VA Fellow in Psychiatry at New York University School of Medicine from 1949-51 and earned a Certificate in Psychoanalytic Medicine at Columbia University in 1955. He became a certified Psychiatrist with the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology in 1957. He was also certified with the American Psychoanalytic Association. During WWII, Dr. Feder was a Major in the Army Medical Corps, serving as Chief of Medicine at a station hospital from 1942-1946 in the Pacific. From 194649 he was a Pathology Fellow and Medical and Radiology resident at Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York City. From 1949-51 he was Psychiatry Fellow at Bellevue Hospital in New York. He was a department director and lecturer throughout his career at Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, Columbia University, Mt. Sinai Hospital and Emory University School of Medicine. He was Professor of Clinical Psychiatry at Cornell University Medical College from 1975-86 and during that time was Clinical Director of the Westchester Division of New York Hospital/Cornell Medical Center. Dr. Feder was Acting Medical Director of the Westchester Division of New York Hospital where he was later Associate Medical Director and Senior Psychiatrist, retiring in 1986. Dr. Feder was on many Psychiatric related committees and professional organizations. He authored many papers including ''Psychological Consideration in Care of Patients with Cancer'' (1966) and ''Observation on Patients with Malignant Disease'' (1965). He also co-authored a book, ''Shame and the Development of Autonomy''. Other activities included teaching and clinical supervision in many areas of hospital and ambulatory psychiatry, psychosomatic medicine, liaison psychiatry, psychopharmacology, curriculum development, resident training, undergraduate training, and psychoanalysis. He is survived by his wife Marie, his son, Michael, and daughters Constance Williams and Elizabeth Barrell, his son-in-law Sankey Williams and his daughter-in-law Barbara Manocherian. He is also survived by seven grandchildren, and his sisters Sylvia Kohn and Mathilda Brailove. Services will be private. Contributions may be made to the American Heart Association.
      