
        MARKFIELD-Alfred. Age 84, died on Father's Day, June 18. He had fought asthma and heart disease but finally succumbed peacefully at his Florida home with his wife, Sylvia (nee Knopf) after holding hands and a final kiss after 57 years of marriage. Alfred is also survived by two daughters, Penni (nee Markfield) Schultz and Linda (nee Markfield) Bogart, along with five grandchildren. Alfred was a successful businessman venturing into many different areas. After retiring, Alfred returned to Lynn University and obtained four diplomas in computer programming while becoming the first to instruct senior citizens where he lived in computer classes and also assisting in a local elementary school. These were all volunteer activities. His charitable and philanthropic acts were always done anonymously and the careers of many successful businessmen today were due to his generosity and guidance. Alfred loved tradition and his beliefs also lead him to support and help build three synagogues, the last one being Shelter Rock Jewish Center of Roslyn, NY. May God grant peace and serenity to Alfred and his family. The family requests in lieu of flowers that donations be made to your favorite charity. Services were held Tuesday at Star of David Cemetery.
        MARKFIELD-Alfred. HTNT Consulting, Inc., and Concord Consulting Corporation of Luxembourg, wish to respectfully relay their condolences to the family of Alfred Markfield. May they find solace in his good deeds and in his peaceful passing after a long illness. Thierry Brickrecy Secretary and Vice President
        MARKFIELD-Alfred. Daniel G. Schultz of Paris, France, and Boca Raton, FL, wishes to note the passing of his father-in-law, who was in reality a father and a best friend. He gave me love and compassion while showing me how to give unconditional love to my family. Rest in peace. Mr. Mark-A-Field Your Beloved Son, Daniel
        MARKFIELD-Alfred. Class Leader International Company wishes to express their condolences upon the death of Alfred Markfield to his family. May he rest in peace and know that he will be missed deeply for his guidance and support. Daniel G. Schultz Chairman
      