
        ROSEN-Howard, M.D. The Members of The NYU-Hospital For Joint Diseases Department of Orthopaedic Surgery mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Dr. Howard Rosen. Dr. Rosen was a graduate of HJD's Orthopaedic Residency Program and continued to serve as a valued and honored member of the department for more than 48 years. He was an outstanding educator of residents and a world-reknown orthopaedic surgeon. Dr. Rosen was a remarkable man and a true contributor to the field of orthopaedic surgery. He leaves a grieving hospital community and a profound void at HJD, since his many years of dedicated work at the hospital have touched the lives of countless people during his tenure. We grieve his passing as we celebrate his exemplary life and extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Connie, their daughters, Terry and Eileen, and to the entire family. Joseph D. Zuckerman, M.D., Chairman, NYU-Hospital For Joint Diseases Department of Orthopaedic Surgery William Jaffe, M.D., Vice-Chairman NYU-Hospital For Joint Diseases Department of Orthopaedic Surgery
        ROSEN-Howard, M.D. The Board Of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital For Joint Diseases are saddened by the passing of our friend and distinguished orthopaedic surgeon, Dr. Howard Rosen. Dr. Rosen was a longstanding member of our Medical Staff and a loyal benefactor of our institution. In 1997 he was the recipient of the Henry W. Frauenthal Medal, Founder of The Hospital For Joint Diseases, for his many years of dedicated service. He has left an indelible mark on the hospital through his exemplary efforts as a teacher, and orthopaedic surgeon, who devoted countless hours toward the well being of his patients. We mourn his passing and extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Constance, their children, Terry and Eileen, and to the entire family. William A. Perlmuth, Chairman of the Board John N. Kastanis, FACHE, President and Chief Executive Officer Victor H. Frankel, M.D., President Emeritus Joseph D. Zuckerman, M.D., Surgeon-in-Chief
        ROSEN-Howard, MD. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our beloved friend and colleague, Howard Rosen, MD who provided outstanding orthopaedic services to the patients of Beth Israel for many years. To his wife Constance, his children, grandchildren and all who loved him we extend our heartfelt condolences. Matthew E. Fink, MD, President and CEO Henry S. Singman, MD, President, Medical Board W. Norman Scott, MD, Chairman, Dept. of Orthopaedic Surgery Robert L. Salant, MD President, Doctors Alumni Association
        ROSEN - Howard, M.D. Died peacefully June 18, 2000, at Memorial Sloane-Kettering. Deeply loved husband and lifelong best friend of Constance Jesselson Rosen, cherished father of Terry and Aileen Rosen, and sons-in-law Alan and Mitchell. Beloved grandfather of Maya, Isabel and August. His wisdom, spirited humor, compassion and geneoristy immeasurably enriched our lives. Funeral service Wednesday, June 21, at 10 AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76 St. In lieu of flowers, contributions should be sent to The Professor Howard Rosen, M.D., Orthopaedic Institute, American Commmitee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center, 49 W. 45 St, NYC 10036, and The JCC on the Upper Westside
        ROSEN-Howard, M.D. We have lost our esteemed colleague and dear friend. We will miss his wonderful outlook toward life and medicine. He was a leader and teacher in new techniques of fracture treatment. His service to Israel was an integral part of his life. He was always a shining light in our home. Dr. and Mrs. Edwin Stempler, Robert and Miriam, Helene and Michael
        ROSEN-Howard. We will miss you New Year's Eve and every day of the year. Our gang of ten is already shrinking too quickly, but our families will continue to be together with Connie, your children and grandchildren. Renee and Alfred Schwartz Shirley and Howard Bisgeier Sally Goodgold and Andree Fidler
        ROSEN-Howard, M.D. To my mentor, friend and teacher, you will be profoundly missed. The lessons imparted both professionally and personally will live on. I extend heartfelt condolences to Connie and the entire family. Donald M. Kastenbaum, M.D.
        ROSEN-Howard, Dr. Our sincere condolences to his wife Connie and to his daughters Aileen and Terry. His great accomplishments were exceeded only by his good deeds. Yehi Zichro Baruch. Judy and Sy Knoll
        ROSEN-Dr. Howard. We mourn the loss of a treasured friend who was there for us in our most joyous times and in our saddest moments. We will miss him. Iris, Jay, Karen Goodgold
      