
        SIMON-William E., on June 3, 2000, in Santa Barbara, CA, in his 73rd year. Beloved husband of Tonia Adams Simon. Devoted father of William E. Simon, Jr., J. Peter Simon, Mary Beth Simon Streep, Carol Leigh Simon Porges, Aimee Simon Bloom, Julie Ann Simon Munro and Johanna Katrina Simon Morris. Loving brother of Mary Ellen Simon White and Madeline Simon Becker. His wife of 45 years, Carol G. Simon, predeceased him. Also survived by three step-children, Mark T. Mayo, Sean S. Mayo and Alexandra A. Lamm, and by twenty-four grandchildren and five step-granchildren. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St., Tuesday, June 6, 7-9 PM, and Wednesday, June 7, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, Thursday, June 8, 10 AM, St. Patrick's Cathedral, 5th Ave and 51 St. Interment private.
        SIMON-William E. We are saddened by the passing of William E. Simon and extend sincere condolences to his family and friends. Mr. Simon's passing coincided with the 25th Reunion of the Lafayette College Class of 1975, two of whose graduates, Peter Simon, and Dana Streep, husband of Mary Simon, were sadly missed at the gathering. At the William E. Simon Center for Business and Economics and at many other campus sites, Bill Simon, Class of 1952, was remembered and the good works and charity of he and his family warmly acknowledged. Michael Brady Michelle Caracchia Steve Caracchia John Hestvik Chris Hitchcock Daniel J. Kilmurray Josh Kornblatt Claude Landauer John Layng Andrew Lebow Gail Pittenger Jim Strong Ken Tankel Leon M. Wagner
        SIMON-William E. The Board of Trustees and staff of the National Bible Association mourn the death of the Honorable William E. Simon, our valued Trustee and friend. Mr. Simon's chairing of the 59th annual celebration of National Bible Week in 1999 called attention to the important place the Bible holds in our national life. For Mr. Simon personally the Bible was a source of comfort, strength and inspiration. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Tonia, his children, grandchildren and his sisters.
        SIMON-William E. The Gregorian University Foundation in the United States, as well as the Pontifical Gregorian University and Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome, mourn the loss of William E. Simon, and will long remember with deep gratitude his extraordinary support and warm friendship. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, his children, stepchildren and grandchildren. Peter P. Mullen, Esq. Rev. Eugene J. O'Brien, S.J. Rev. Franco Imoda, S.J. Rev. Robert O'Toole, S.J.
        SIMON-William E. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the John M. Olin Foundation mourn the death of the Honorable William E. Simon, our esteemed President and dear friend. Mr. Simon led the Foundation since 1977 with extraordinary vision, energy and devotion. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Tonia, to his children, his grandchildren and his sisters.
        SIMON-William E. The Board of Directors and staff of Casita Maria, Inc. offer our sincere sympathy to the family of William E. Simon. Through his generosity Casita Maria is able to provide scholarships to youth residing in the South Bronx who want to attend Catholic high school.
      