
        VANDERBILT-Oliver DeGray, of Jupiter Island, FL., 85, an industrialist and investment banker, died Tuesday, June 20, 2000. He had lived on Jupiter Island, Hobe Sound since 1983. Vanderbilt was active in the railway supply business until 1942 when he joined the U.S. Army during World War II. He saw service in England, North Africa and the E.T.O. and was honorably discharged as Major in 1945. After his return, he became President of Taylor-Wharton Iron & Steel Co. and was a charter member of the Young Presidents Organization (YPO). He also served as an officer and director of Harsco and Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corp. and was Trustee of Penn Mutual Life Insurance Co. before joining Blair & Co., a member firm of the N.Y.S.E. which he subsequently served as Chairman. While with Blair, Vanderbilt arranged the financing for the acquisition and merger of several industrial companies. Occasionally he acted as interim C.E.O. of such companies as Dorsey Trailers, Chattanooga Glass Co., etc. Vanderbilt formed and became C.E.O. of Capital Management Corp. a company heavily involved in the early days of equipment leasing. Such novel financing was very important in the initial development of new industries such as CATV. Most recently, Vanderbilt cofounded and served as the first Chairman of Seaboard Savings Bank, Stuart, FL. After graduating from St. Paul's School and Princeton Class of 1937, where he was a member of the Ivy Club, Vanderbilt married the former Frances Phillips. They spent their early years in Cincinnati, OH and later in Philadelphia, PA. He was a member of Maidstone Club, Seminole Golf Club, the Jupiter Island Club and the U.S. Seniors Golf Assoc. Survivors include his wife, Frances; a son, Oliver DeG. Vanderbilt, Jr. Molokai, Hawaii; a daughter, Madelon V. Peck, Altadena, CA; eight granchildren and eight great grandchildren. A memorial Service will be held at a later date at Christ Memorial Chapel, Jupiter, Island. Burial will be in Christ Memorial Garden, Jupiter Island. Those who wish may make contributions to the Hobe Sound Boys & Girls Club, Box 910, Hobe Sound, FL 33475, Jupiter Medical Center, 1210 S. Dixie Hwy., Jupiter, FL 33458 or Christ Memorial Chapel, Box 582, Hobe Sound, FL 33475
      