
        BELL-George Irving, died on May 28th, 2000, from leukemia complications following routine surgery. George was born August 4, 1926, in Evanston, Illiois. He received a BS in Physics from Harvard University in 1947 and a PhD in Theoretical Physics from Cornell University in 1951, where he studied nuclear physics under Hans Bethe. George moved to New Mexico in 1951, where he was a driving force in the Theoretical Physics Division of the Los Alamos National Laboratory until his death. In the early part of his career there, he worked on reactor physics and safety. By the 60's, his interests shifted towards biology and immunology. He served as a group leader for the Theoretical Biology and Biophysics from 1974-1990 and Theoretical Physics Division leader from 1980-1989. He was a founder of the Center for Human Genome Studies in 1988. George authored three books and hundreds of scientific articles and was elected a fellow of the American Physical Society and the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). George was also an avid mountaineer and outdoorsman. His first exposure to technical climbing came during a summer camp to the Tetons while he was in high school. It quickly developed into a passion and he went on four expeditiions to the Peruvian Andes in the 50's. He and is team made the first ascent of Yerpaja in 1950 and of Salcantay in 1952, two of Peru's highest and most difficult peaks. In 1953, George attempted K2 (then unclimbed) with a well-knit team. They endured a horrific storm for a week at 25,000', and a terrible accident on the way down. The entire team could easily have been lost, but miraculously all but one team member staggered into base camp. This was a pivotal event in the lives of the seven surviving team members, who became as close as brothers. George was carried out from the base camp and eventually lost two toes to frostbite. Despite this, his enthusiasm for climbing was undiminished. He went on several more Himalayan expeditions, culminating in the first ascent of Masherbrum (the 25th highest peak in the world) in 1960. George then married Virginia (Ginny) Lotz in 1956. In Ginny, he found an enthusiastic life partner and together they enjoyed many outdoor adventures. They had two children: Carolyn and George, Jr. Family backpacking and climbing trips were the norm. In their later years, George and Ginny enjoyed a dozen treks in the Himalayas, and another dozen to mountain ranges in the rest of the world. Even at age 73, he remained in remarkable physical shape, hiking 14 miles the weekend before his death. A brilliant but unassuming man, he was a great inspiration to his family, his many friends, colleagues, and young aspiring mountaineers. George is survived by his wife, Ginny of Los Alamos, New Mexico; his daughter, Carolyn BellPrince and grandchildren Kaitlin, Austin and Derek Prince all of Los Alamos; his son, George Irving Bell, Jr. and wife, Esther Brady, and grandchildren, Allison and Henry Bell all of Boulder, CO. He is also survived by his elder sister. Dr. Barbara Bell, of the Harvard Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. A memorial service is planned and will be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers the family suggests donations to the American Himalayan Foundation, 909 Montgomery St., Suite 400, San Francisco, CA 94133 or the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, 201 Eubank Northeast, Suite B2, Albuquerque, NM 87123. For information contact Berardinelli Family Funeral Service, 1399 Luisa, Santa Fe, 984-8600.
      