
        ROSEN-Dr. Howard. We have lost a true giant amongst friends of Israel. Throughout her past wars and in times of peace, the soldiers of the Israel Defense Forces and the population of Israel have been blessed by the medical expertise, hands-on service and exceptionally kind heart of Dr. Howard Rosen. In all of his endeavors, both professionally and charitably, he gave his all. He considered his medical work for Israel his vacation and vocation. His efforts at teaching and operating at the medical center go back nearly three decades. Appreciative patients and admirers have long supported the Professor Howard Rosen, M.D. Orthopedic Institute at Shaare Zedek, which was named in his honor. His persistence and charm were responsible for arranging the donation of state-of-the-art orthopedic equipment to hospitals throughout Israel. We shall miss his presence (his moustache) and wonderful smile. Sincerest condolences to his wife Connie, daughters Terry, Aileen and the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. for Shaare Zedek Jerusalem Med. Ctr. Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, President Prof. Jonathan Halevy, Director General
        ROSEN - Howard, M.D. Died peacefully June 18, 2000, at Memorial Sloane-Kettering. Deeply loved husband and lifelong best friend of Constance Jesselson Rosen, cherished father of Terry and Aileen Rosen, and sons-in-law Alan and Mitchell. Beloved grandfather of Maya, Isabel and August. His wisdom, spirited humor, compassion and generosity immeasurably enriched our lives. Funeral service Wednesday, June 21, at 10 AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76 St. In lieu of flowers, contributions should be sent to The Professor Howard Rosen, M.D., Orthopaedic Institute, American Commmitee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center, 49 W. 45 St, NYC 10036, and The JCC on the Upper Westside
        ROSEN-Dr. Howard. Congregation Rodeph Sholom records with sorrow the passing of our devoted member, Dr. Howard Rosen. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his beloved wife, Constance; their daughters, Terry Ann and Aileen, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Mark Biderman, President
        ROSEN-Howard, M.D. We have lost our esteemed colleague and dear friend. We will miss his wonderful outlook toward life and medicine. His service to Israel was an integral part of his life. He was always a shining light in our home. Dr.& Mrs. Edwin Stempler, Robert & Miriam, Helene & Michael.
        ROSEN-Howard, M.D. So many were touched by his wisdom, generosity and joie de vivre. May that be a comfort to Connie, Terry and Alan, and Aileen and Mitchell-and an inspiration for Maya, Isabel and August. Linda Eckstein
        ROSEN-Dr. Howard. We mourn the loss of a treasured friend who was there for us in our most joyous times and in our saddest moments. We will miss him. Iris, Jay, Karen Goodgold
      