
        BROOKS-Harry A. Of Glen Head, LI, on June 2, 2000, age 87. Beloved husband of Helen M. (Holly). Father of Melissa Brooks Zakarian and Miranda Brooks Meyer. Stepfather of James R. Lowell III and Howard B. Lowell; their spouses and seven grandchildren. He was in the class of 1935 at Princeton University and graduated from New York Law School in 1938. From 1941 to 1945 he served in the U.S. Army, eventually as Assistant Chief of Staff on the American Delegation at the Allied Kommandatura in Berlin, 1945 to 1946, before retiring as a Lieutenant Colonel. He was awarded the Bronze Star and Army Commendation Ribbon. After the war, he began a long career in the art business in New York City, beginning with E. Coe Kerr Gallery and then at Knoedler & Co., where he remained for 21 years. In 1968, he went to Wildenstein & Co. as Vice President, and later as President, before retiring in 1990. Thereafter he remained a Director and advisor on the firm's special projects. He married Helen Moffett Lowell in 1963. He devoted much of his time to many organizations. He served as Director of the Art Museum at Princeton University and the Nassau County Museum of Art, Roslyn, NY. He was a member of the Advisory Committee at the Metropolitan Opera in NYC and a Trustee of the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame in Saratoga, NY. He was a Manager of the Racquet and Tennis Club in New York. He also had many charitable interests. Service St. John's of Lattingtown, Locust Valley, NY, Tuesday, June 6, at 11 AM. In lieu of flowers the family asks that a donation be made to Nassau County Museum of Art, Roslyn, New York.
        BROOKS-Harry A. The Wildenstein family and the staff of Wildenstein & Co., Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of Harry Brooks, a longtime friend of ours and retired President of Wildenstein & Co. He will be remembered for his charm and affability, and his distinction among his art world colleagues. We send our deepest sympathy to his wife, children, grandchildren and extended family. Guy Wildenstein, President Wildenstein & Co., Inc.
      