
        SIMON-William E., on June 3, 2000, in Santa Barbara, CA, in his 73rd year. Beloved husband of Tonia Adams Simon. Devoted father of William E. Simon, Jr., J. Peter Simon, Mary Beth Simon Streep, Carol Leigh Simon Porges, Aimee Simon Bloom, Julie Ann Simon Munro and Johanna Katrina Simon Morris. His wife of 45 years, Carol G. Simon, predeceased him. Also survived by three step-children, Mark T. Mayo, Sean S. Mayo and Alexandra A. Lamm, and by twenty-four grandchildren and five step-granchildren. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St., Tuesday, June 6, 7-9 PM, and Wednesday, June 7, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, Thursday, June 8, 10 AM, St. Patrick's Cathedral, 5th Ave and 51 St. Interment private.
        SIMON-William E. The National Council For Adoption, its board members, member agencies, member attorneys, and volunteers, extend deepest sympathy to the family of William E. Simon. With his late wife, Carol Girard Simon, he was an early and steadfast supporter of our mission, a fact recognized when he and Carol were inducted into the Adoption Hall of Fame, on our Tenth Aniversary in 1980, by then-Honorary Chair, Barbara Pierce Bush. He was a founding member and served until his passing on our National Honorary Board. With his wife, Carol, he set an example of enlightened, involved philanthropy and public policy advocacy for his family, friends, and associates. J. Peter Simon, with his wife, Janet, are active supporters and were also inducted into the Adoption Hall of Fame. Peter served with distinction for many years as Treasurer and Chairman of the Finance and Development Committee of our Board. Mary Simon Streep, with her husband Dana, were also inducted into the Adoption Hall of Fame. The entire family are supporters of our National Adoption Week tri-state event, Kids At Heart. William E. Simon, Jr. assisted in the California launch of our AIDS Orphan Adoption Project. Leigh Simon Porges and her sisters Aimee Simon Bloom, Julie Ann Simon Munro and Johanna Katrina Simon are likewise faithful supporters. In his later years, William Simon's personal expressions of his religious faith, his forthright defense of our causes in his related policy and philanthropic activities and his personal friendship were much appreciated. His greatest legacy are his and Carol's family-centered, philanthropically-sensitive children and grandchildren, who carry on William and Carol's traditions. Louis P. Stern, Board Chair William Pierce Founding President and CEO Washington, D.C.
        SIMON-William E. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the John M. Olin Foundation mourn the death of the Honorable William E. Simon, our esteemed President and dear friend. Mr. Simon led the Foundation since 1977 with extraordinary vision, energy and devotion. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Tonia, to his children, his grandchildren and his sisters.
      