
        DUFALLO - Richard. One of America's leading exponents of twentieth-century music, Richard Dufallo died June 16, 2000, of cancer. During his career, he conducted more than 80 major orchestras and festivals in the U.S., Canada, and twelve European countries and premiered a host of major works by acclaimed American and European composers. Former assistant conductor of the New York Philharmonic, Maestro Dufallo worked closely with Leonard Bernstein from 1965 to 1975. During this time, he made his opera debut with the New York City Opera and succeeded Darius Milhaud as artistic director of the Conference on Contemporary Music at the Aspen Festival in Colorado. American symphony orchestras that performed under his baton include the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Philadelphia Orchestra, and Buffalo Philharmonic, with which he enjoyed a three-year association as assistant conductor. Maestro Dufallo conducted more than 25 world premieres, including Stockhausen's ''Carre'' in London, The Hague and Paris; Jacob Druckman's ''Lamia'' with the Berlin Philharmonic, and Sir Peter Maxwell Davis' opera ''The Lighthouse'' at the Edinburgh Festival. Other European performances include Robert Beaser's ''Piano Concerto'' with the Philharmonique de Monte Carlo with his wife, Steinway Artist Pamela Mia Paul, the Rome premiere of Elliott Carter's ''A Mirror on Which to Dwell,'' the world premiere of ''Trance Formations'' by Robert Zuidam at Amsterdam's Concertgebouw, and the Polish premiere of Bruce MacCombie's ''Chelsea Tango.'' Named permanent guest conductor of the Gelders Orchestra in Holland, Maestro Dufallo made his European debut in 1970 in Paris with the Orchestra Telephonique Francais. Other major European orchestras that have performed undehis baton include the Concertgebouw Orchestra, Rotterdam Philharmonic, Berlin Philharmonic, London Symphony and Royal Philharmonic. Equally at home with Mozart and Mahler, Dufallo's programming frequently included works by Bernstein, Aaron Copland, George Gershwin, Charles Ives, and Igor Stravinsky. In February 2000, Maestro Dufallo conducted the Dutch Radio Symphony as part of a 26-hr. series, ''Of Beauty and Consolation,'' which was taped by VPRO Dutch television and broadcast in Europe in April. The two-and-one-half-hour performance (with no intermission) included original text (by the conductor), which he spoke between each piece. Other recent appearances include tours with the Netherlands Wind Ensemble, a tour of Holland and Belgium with the Dutch Radio Philharmonic, the world premiere of ''The Food of Love'' by Peter Schat with the Noord Nederlands Orkest, and debuts with the Orkest van het Oosten (1997-98), and Israel Sinfonietta and Limburg Symphony Orchestra (1998-99). His internationally acclaimed publication, ''Trackings: Composers Speak with Richard Dufallo'' (Oxford University Press), includes conversations with twenty-six of the world's leading composers. Maestro Dufallo has been recorded on Sony, Composer's Voice, CRI American Masters, Fontec Records, Channel Crossings, and Globe. A native of Whiting, Indiana, Maestro Dufallo was born Jan. 30, 1933. He is survived by his wife, pianist Pamela Mia Paul, sons Basil Dufallo, a classics scholar, of Seattle, and Cornelius Dufallo, a violinist in the Flux Quartet, of New York; daughter Rene Kirby of Los Angeles, and a sister, Kathryn Traczyk of East Chicago, Indiana. No service is planned. Memorials may be made to the Richard Dufallo Scholarship Fund, University of North Texas, P.O. Box 311367, Denton, Texas 76203. For more information, contact Pati Haworth at 940382-5962.
      