
        SIMON-William E. The Board of Directors of Delta Kappa Epsilon International Fraternity, the Trustees of the Rampant Lion Foundation and all the DKE Family mourn the loss of their esteemed brother and friend William E. Simon. His wisdom and dedication to his Fraternity and his dedication to the rights and freedoms of students everywhere will be sorely missed. He has served as Honorary Chairman with President Gerald R. Ford of the Rampant Lion Foundation from its inception in 1982. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Tonia, his children, their husbands and wives and grandchildren. James D. Bishop, Chairman, Delta Kappa Epsilon David K. Easlick, Jr., Pres., Rampant Lion Foundation.
        SIMON-William E. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of the New York-Presbyterian Hospital, the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College of Cornell University, and Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons are saddened by the passing of our friend and esteemed Life Trustee, William E. Simon. Mr. Simon became a Governor of The New York Hospital in 1990 and rendered distinguished service, becoming a Life Trustee in 1997. We extend our deepest condolences to the family of this outstanding public servant.
        SIMON-William E. The Gregorian University Foundation in the United States, as well as the Pontifical Gregorian University and Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome, mourn the loss of William E. Simon, and will long remember with deep gratitude his extraordinary support and warm friendship. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, his children, stepchildren and grandchildren. Rev. Eugene J. O'Brien, S.J. Rev. Franco Imoda, S.J. Rev. Robert O'Toole, S.J.
        SIMON-William E. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the John M. Olin Foundation mourn the death of the Honorable William E. Simon, our esteemed President and dear friend. Mr. Simon led the Foundation since 1977 with extraordinary vision, energy and devotion. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Tonia, to his children, his grandchildren and his sisters.
        SIMON-William . Sister Mary Rose, the Board of Directors, and the kids and staff of Covenant House want to express our prayerful condolences to the family of Bill Simon, a longtime friend of Covenant House.
        SIMON-William E. We have lost a true friend; the Nation, a great warrior. We extend our sincere condolences to the bereaved family. George Steinbrenner The New York Yankees
        SIMON-William E. Newark Academy records with great sorrow the passing of Trustee Emeritus, benefactor and loyal friend, William E. Simon, '46. Elizabeth P. Riegelman, Head of School
        SIMON-William E. The HealthCare Chaplaincy mourns the death of its friend and benefactor who always championed the role of spiritual care in ministering to the sick, disabled, aging or dying person. We extend our prayerful condolences to his beloved family. William G. Spears, Chairman The Rev. Dr. Walter J. Smith, SJ, President and CEO
      