
        SCHWARTZ-Rose, wife of David H. Schwartz and mother of Elliot and Judy Schwartz; Susan and Daniel Sklarin; and Donna and Robert Aschheim; sister of Ruth Weissberg; and Dovid Schisgal (Israel) passed away on June 5, 2000. She is also survived and mourned by her grandchildren, Rachel and Harris Lukashok and Jennifer Schwartz; Yigal, Tamara and Ely Sklarin; Meir, Cara, and Rebecca Aschheim. The employees and staff of ArtScroll Printing Corporation express their profound sympathy to the entire family on the passing of this exceptional woman, mother of our president, Elliot Schwartz. She was a true Woman of Valor and was beloved by all who came into contact with her. Her deeds of kindness were legendary and she leaves a deep void. May the Everpresent comfort the family among all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. The Employees and Staff of ArtScroll Printing Corporation
        SCHWARTZ-Rose. Beloved wife of David. Dedicated and caring mother to Elliot and Judy, Susan and Danny Sklarin, Donna and Robert Aschheim. Devoted sister to Rabbi Dovid Shisgal and Ruth Weisberg. Most loving BUBBY to Rachel and Harris, Jenny, Yigal, Tamar, Eli, Mayer, Cara and Rebekah. Friend to many. Shiva observed until Thursday afternoon. 683 Rutland Ave. Teaneck, NJ.
        SCHWARTZ-Rose. We extend heartfelt condolences to David and Elliot Schwartz on the loss of their beloved wife and mother. A woman who possessed a special inner beauty, Rose exuded warmth, friendship and unabated love to all who were fortunate to know her. As devoted Founders of the Medical Center, Elliot and Judith walk in her footsteps, which radiated kindness and chesed. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. for Shaare Zedek Jerusalem Med. Ctr. Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, Pres. Sidney Adler, Treas. Lee Weinbach, Pres., Nat'l Women's Div. Stuart Tauber, Exec. Dir.
        SCHWARTZ-Rosie, our aunt was the most fantastic person and a true Aishes Chayel. May Hashem grant our uncle Duvie and cousins Elliot, Susan and Nonny comfort amongst the mourners of Tzion and Yerushaliam. Pesia and Basya Shisgal
      