
        SISKIND-William. ''Uncle Bill'', your intelligence, calm demeanor and kind heart will be missed. Over the years, Uncle Bill was always there to offer sound advice and good sense and for this we will always be grateful to Aunt Terry, Carol, Alan, Marla, Arthur, Mary Ann, Laura, Bonnie, Julie, Kenny, Nicole, Daniel and Tamara we express our deepest sympathy. Barry, Claire, Jeffrey, Nancy, Stephen, Laura, Andrew, Max, Sam, Cara and Elizabeth Siskind. Jeffrey, Jill, Melanie, Shelby and Julia Marks
        SISKIND-William, 89 years old. Beloved husband of Teri for 65 years & most dear father of Carol, Arthur and Mary Ann, Alan and Marla. Cherished and adored grandfather of Laura and Bonnie, Julie, Kenny and Nicole, Daniel and Tamara. We were blessed to have his love, wise counsel and care and will be supported always by wonderful memories. Services Sunday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Av.
        SISKIND-William. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services deeply mourn the passing of William Siskind, father of Alan Siskind, Ph.D., executive vice president of the agency. A loving husband, father and grandfather, Mr. Siskind practiced law and was an active member of the Westchester community. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Alan and his wife, Marla; his mother, Sylvia; his sister, Carol, and his brother, Arthur; his children, Daniel and Tamara Jill; and other members of his family. The funeral will be held on Sunday, June 25th, at 11:30 AM, at Riverside Chapel, NYC. Joseph S. Kaplan, President, JBFCS Seymour R. Askin, Jr., Chairman of the Board Paul Levine, CSW, Assoc. Executive Vice President
        SISKIND-William. The Board and Members of The Coalition of Voluntary Mental Health Agencies express their sorrow at the death of William Siskind, beloved father of our colleague and President, Alan B. Siskind. The Coalition family extends heartfelt condolences to the entire Siskind Family. Phillip A. Saperia, Exec Director Mildred Allen, PH.D VP Thelma Dye, PH.D Secretary Peter Campanelli, PsyD. Treas.
      