
        SIMON-William E., on June 3, 2000, in Santa Barbara, CA, in his 73rd year. Beloved husband of Tonia Adams Simon. Devoted father of William E. Simon, Jr., J. Peter Simon, Mary Beth Simon Streep, Carol Leigh Simon Porges, Aimee Simon Bloom, Julie Ann Simon Munro and Johanna Katrina Simon Morris. Loving brother of Mary Ellen Simon White and Madeline Simon Becker. His wife of 45 years, Carol G. Simon, predeceased him. Also survived by three step-children, Mark T. Mayo, Sean S. Mayo and Alexandra A. Lamm, and by twenty-four grandchildren and five step-granchildren. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St., Tuesday, June 6, 7-9 PM, and Wednesday, June 7, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, Thursday, June 8, 10 AM, St. Patrick's Cathedral, 5th Ave and 51 St. Interment private.
        SIMON-William E. We are saddened by the passing of William E. Simon and extend sincere condolences to his family and friends. Mr. Simon's passing coincided with the 25th Reunion of the Lafayette College Class of 1975, two of whose graduates, Peter Simon, and Dana Streep, husband of Mary Simon, were sadly missed at the gathering. At the William E. Simon Center for Business and Economics and at many other campus sites, Bill Simon, Class of 1952, was remembered and the good works and charity of he and his family warmly acknowledged. Michael Brady Michelle Caracchia Steve Caracchia John Hestvik Chris Hitchcock Daniel J. Kilmurray Josh Kornblatt Claude Landauer John Layng Andrew Lebow Gail Pittenger Jim Strong Ken Tankel Leon M. Wagner
        SIMON-William E. The children, families, staff and Board of Boys Harbor mark with great sadness the passing of William E. Simon, longtime friend, supporter, and Board member. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and will miss his commitment to New York City's children and families. Anthony D. Duke, Founder and Chairman Emeritus Richard Asche, Chairman Dr. Robert North, Executive Director/CEO Thomas E. Wynn, President Luly Duke, Executive VP
        SIMON-William E. A member of the Great Class of 1952 at Lafayette College, Easton, PA. Bill's classmates shared 4 years together on College Hill during which time Bill and Carol Girard married. He was our confidant, colleague, compatriot, friend, fellow poker player and lifelong Pard. The Class of 1952 and the entire Lafayette community shares our loss in his passing from our midst. The Class of 1952
        SIMON-William E. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the John M. Olin Foundation mourn the death of the Honorable William E. Simon, our esteemed President and dear friend. Mr. Simon led the Foundation since 1977 with extraordinary vision, energy and devotion. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Tonia, to his children, his grandchildren and his sisters.
      