
        BRODY-Frances. Of Scotch Plains, NJ and Delray Beach, FL, passed peacefully in her sleep on Tuesday morning, June 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Brody, co-founder of Pathmark Supermarkets, adored mother and mother-in-law of Susanne Brody, & Gary Cohen, Wendy & Gordon Keil, Patti and Daniel Lehrhoff, Andrew & Tracey Brody. Loving grandmother of Adam, Sarah, Heather, and Noah Keil, Danielle, Michelle and Haley Rosengarten, Corey, Amanda, Nicole, Benjamin, Jessie, and Michael Lehrhoff, and Marcia Brody. A woman of valor who lived her life in the service of her family, her friends and her community. She had been actively involved in The Herb and Frances Brody Center for Food Sciences at Hebrew University of Israel, Hadassah Hospital, Israel Bonds, UJA, ADL, Alyn Hospital, Newark Beth Israel Hospital, Temple Emanu-El in Westfield, New Jersey, and The YMHA's of New Jersey was tireless. For over 70 years, she dedicated herself to a life of tzedakah and righteousness. The world is a better place because of her, she is loved and will be missed by all who knew her. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, June 14, 2000, at 11:30 A.M. at Temple Emanu-El, East Broad Street, Westfield, New Jersey. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in her memory to The Hebrew University, Herb and Frances Brody College of Agriculture, 11 East 69th Street, New York, New York 10022.
        BRODY - Frances. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem deeply mourn the passing of long time supporter, well-known philanthropist and dear friend, Frances Brody. Fran and her late husband Herbert were active Board members for many years. Together, the Brodys established the Herb and Frances Brody Center for Food Sciences at the University's Faculty of Agricultural Food and Environmental Quality Sciences. Fran's great passion for children led to the establishment of the Frances Brody Student Aid Endowment Fund for Handicapped Students at The Hebrew University. Deeply dedicated to the State of Israel and the principles of the University, the Brodys generously supported vital programs including the Krueger Center for Finance, the Lautenberg Center for General and Tumor Immunology, Rothberg International School, and the Avraham Harman Memorial Foundation, among others. We extend our deepest condolences to her children Susanne Brody and Gary Cohen, Wendy and Gordon Keil, Patti and Daniel Lehrhoff, Andrew and Tracey Brody, her fourteen beloved grandchildren and the entire Brody family. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President Yigal Arnon, Chairman of the Board of Governors Harvey M. Krueger, Honorary Chairman of the Board of Governors American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
      