
        FOWLE-Phyllis L. Propp, 92, a retired lawyer and lieutenant-colonel in the Army Reserve, died June 22. In 1944 she was the first woman officer in the Army Judge Advocate's Generals Corps. The JAG cited her for this in April 1999 at a banquet at its school in Charlottesville, VA at which she was guest of honor. Later that year, the American Bar Association's Commission on Women in the Profession awarded her its Trailblazer certificate. She was born in Laurel, IA on the farm of her father, Henry J. Propp and his second wife Martha Knoble Propp. She grew up in nearby Marshalltown where she graduated from its high school. She graduated in 1930 from the University of Iowa and received her J.D. from its law college in 1933. After practicing in Mason City, she entered the Federal civil service in the regional office of the Farm Credit Admistration in Omaha, and later at the Federal Land Bank. Active in democratic politics, Miss Propp also served on the board of the Omaha Urban League. When Congress established what became the Women's Army Corps in May 1942, she was an original volunteer. She was commissioned after completing its OTC course at Fort Des Moines to which she returned early in 1944 as a captain and Post Judge Advocate and was formally detailed in the JAG in May 1944. In January 1945 she was assigned to the JAG office at General Dwight D. Eisenhower's European Command in Paris. Shortly after the German surrender, she was promoted to major and moved with the headquarters to Frankfurt, Germany and later to Heidelberg. In 1947 she left active duty as a lieutenant-colonel but continued the same work heading the civil affairs section as a civilian. She resigned from this post in the summer of 1951. In November she was married to Farnsworth Fowle, then a New York Times correspondent in Germany. After a year in London, they returned to the United States and settled in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Continuing in the Army Reserve, Mrs. Fowle was admitted on motion to the New York Bar and established a solo law practice in midtown Manhattan. She served on the Bronx and city boards of the YWCA. She was a past president of the former Riverdale Committee on Intergroup Relations, the local chapter of the United Nations Association and the Villa Charlotte Bronte cooperative. Survivors include her husband; her nieces Charlotte Gaden of Waterloo, IA, Grace Bluck of Preston, MN, Esther Schmidt of Newton, IA, Phyllis Gaddis of Portland, OR and Marjorie Tuomi of Clatskanie, OR and two nephews Myron Lorenzen of Waterloo, and David Bollhoefer of Newton. In lieu of flowers, memorial gifts are suggested to Christ Church Riverdale, 5030 Henry Hudson Parkway, NY 10471 or the Iowa College of Law Foundation, PO Box 4550, Iowa City, IA 52244 or other good causes. A memorial service will be held at Christ Church on Tuesday at 1:30PM. Her ashes will be buried in Thetford, VT. after a service there later this summer.
      