
        FRAZIER-Rev. Donald Hart Frazier, 88, of 1821 Mooring Line Dr., Vero Beach, FL., and Old Orchard Lane, East Marion, LI, NY, died May 31, 2000 at Eastern Long Island Memorial Hospital. He was the husband of Elizabeth Hart Frazier. He was born Oct. 18, 1911 in Forksville, PA, son of the late Rev. William Fiske Frazier and Minnie Hart Frazier. He was a graduate of Oberlin College, 1933, Oberlin, OH and Yale University Divinity School, 1938, New Haven, CT. He was a member of the faculty of the New Haven Junior College of Commerce, predecessor institutionto Quinnipiac College and at the Arnold College of Physical Education, where he taught history, government and economics. Rev. Frazier served as minister of the First Congregational Church of West Haven, CT from 1960 to 1970. He also served as minister of Congregational churches in Easton and Shelton, CT, Proctor, VT, and in Cedar Grove, NJ from 1949 to 1959. He and Mrs. Frazier, who was ordained in the United Church of Christ in 1972, co-ministered in 14 Connecticut interim pastorates. During these years, he also represented the Presbyterian Minister's Fund, and had been development director of Albertus Magnus College. He was scribe of the Middle Atlantic conference of the United Church of Christ. Rev. Frazier was a director of the Commission on Development of the United Church of Christ in New York City and responsible for nationwide seminars for ministers and lay leaders on special gifts and wills. He was the Associate Western Regional Director of the Christian Higher Education Fund of the Congregational Churches, which was a special effort of the denomination to strengthen its higher education interests in the United States and 14 countries abroad. He helped found and organize the Community Church in Cedar Grove, where he was also instrumental in the organization of the Jewish community, and together with the congregation of the Community Church provided the Jewish community with a place of worship until the temple was dedicated. He served as a spiritual advisor to the newly organized Jewish community as well as a congregational minister. In West Haven, CT he was a chaplain of the US Veterans Administration Hospital, and helped found the community church nursery school, and educational organization open to all pre-school level children. He was a member of the Rotary Club and a director of the New Haven Visiting Nurse Association, and a founding member of the West Haven Human Relations Council. In Florida, since 1984, he was a member of the Yale Club of the Treasure Coast, and on the Board of Directors of the Atlantic Classical Orchestra, and a supporter and volunteer at the Environmental Learning Center and Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institute. He was an active member of both the Community Church and the Unitarian Universalist Church in Vero Beach. He was instrumental in helping save land for a bike and walking path around the West Haven shore, and for saving Devella-Mills land in New Jersey as open space. Rev. Frazier has written many books and publications. His interests included nature study, birding, geology and travel. He and Mrs. Frazier travelled extensively on all seven continents, seeing the Antartic for the second time last year. He leaves his wife of 64 years, Elizabeth Hart Frazier, two sons, William H. Frazier, M.D. of Vero Beach, FL and Robert H. Frazier or Rowayton, CT, two daughters, Bonnie F. Lancraft of Madison, CT and Mary F. McDaniel of Troy, NY, and 10 grandchildren. Gifts in his memory may be made to Planned Parenthood, Vero Beach, FL 32963 or AIDS Research and Treatment Center, 2407 Okeechobee Road, Fort Pierce, FL 34950. Memorial services will be held Saturday on Long Island.
      