
        LUBIN-Emanuel. On behalf of the entire Newmark family, we wish to express our profound sorrow at the untimely passing of Manny Lubin, and to extend our deepest condolences to his family. He truly was the dean of the City's real estate attorneys, and he served the industry with dignity and distinction. He will be sorely missed. The Principals of Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. Aaron Gural Jeffrey Gural Barry M. Gosin James D. Kuhn Arthur H. Lerner Ronald E. Goldberger William G. Cohen Marlene Post David Falk Neil A. Goldmacher Scott M. Panzer Brian S. Waterman
        LUBIN-Emanuel. The Benenson Capital Company mourns the loss of our Distinguished friend and trusted advisor, Manny Lubin. We will miss his advice, intelligence, counsel and wit. We have over fifty years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a man who was greatly dedicated to his family and business. Those of us who knew how special he was know the sense of loss that is shared by his family, friends andhis associates. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Evelyn, his daughter Helen, his son-in-law Robert, and his grandchildren Caroline and David.
        LUBIN-Emanuel. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Manny. Counsel to the Foundation for many years, his guidance and sage advice will be sorely missed. A warm and joyous man who gave so much to so many. Our sincerest condolences to his wife Evelyn and family. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        LUBIN-Emanuel. The partners and staff of Goldfarb & Fleece are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed and beloved partner Emanuel Lubin. He brought great joy and wisdom to all of us and we will miss him immensely. We all join in expressing our sincere and heart felt sympathy to his wife Evelyn, daughter and son-in-law Dr. and Mrs. Robert Stark and his grandchildren Caroline and David.
      