
        BRENNGLASS-Terry. We deeply mourn the passing of Terry, a longtime Board Member and a generous supporter of Re'uth. We extend our sincere sympathy to her family. Ursula Merkin, Chairman Rosa Strygler, President
        BRENNGLASS-Theresa (Terry). Congregation Orach Chaim records with profound sorrow the loss of a true Eishes Chayal, whose service and devotion to Orach Chaim span more than half a century and whose family have been officers and leaders in our Congregation for close to a century. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her distinguished husband Samuel L. Brennglass, Esq., her children Alan and Eleanor, her grandchildren Ilan and Brian, her brother and sister Leslie and Carrie and sisters-in-law Lillian and Gloria Hirtz. May her acts of Chesed and kindness be a source of consolation. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Michael D. Shmidman, Rabbi Wolf Scheck, President
        BRENNGLASS - Theresa. Fifth Avenue Synagogue Women's Club mourns with profound sorrow the passing of its devoted past President, and a Founder of its Women's Chevra Kadisha. Her passing leaves a void in our midst. Heartfelt sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. Anne Hiltzik, Chairlady, Maidy Jeger, Presidium, Beryl Trau, Presidium
        BRENNGLASS - Theresa. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its devoted member, the beloved wife of its Trustee, Mr. Samuel L. Brennglass. Her leadership on behalf of our congregation was invaluable. Heartfelt sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President
        BRENNGLASS-Theresa. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, its Men's Club and Sisterhood, mourn the passing of Theresa Brennglass, devoted wife of Dr. Samuel Brennglass and beloved mother of Dr. Alan Brennglass. We extend heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Chaim Edelstein, President
        BRENNGLASS - Theresa. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member Theresa Brennglass beloved wife of Samuel, mother of Alan and Eleanor. Deepest sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        BRENNGLASS-Theresa. Beloved wife of Samuel. Devoted mother of Alan and Eleanor. Loving grandmother of Ilan and Brian. Dear sister of Carrie and Leslie Hirtz and the late Martin Hirtz. Services Tuesday, June 13, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
      