
        JAMES-Debra. It is with the deepest sadness that we mourn loss of our beloved friend and valued colleague, Debra James. Debra served this University with dedication and distinction for 25 years, most recently as a Senior Vice President. She helped create and guide some of its most important enterprises. However, she will be best remembered for her constant efforts to create a sense of community at NYU and to provide it with a heart. She worked tirelessly to convey a sense of family and closeness among students, faculty and staff. She was a champion of our community service programs, binding this institution with its neighborhood and leading its efforts to help those in need. She helped create the vision of what this University could be. Her parting came far too soon; she will be sorely missed. Donations may be made to the Debra James Scholarship Fund established at NYU or the Catholic Center at NYU. L. Jay Oliva, President New York University
        JAMES-Debra. The Provost and Vice Presidents of New York University join the President of the University in mourning the death of our colleague, Debra James. She was an extraordinary partner in all that we did at NYU-adding commitment, intelligence, joy and laughter to our work. We shall miss our dear friend very much. Harvey J. Stedman, Provost Naomi B. Levine, Sr. Vice Pres. S. Andrew Schaffer, Sr. Vice Pres. and General Counsel Robert Berne, Vice Pres. Richard N. Bing, Vice Pres. Robert Goldfeld, Vice Pres. Margo Post Marshak, Vice Pres. Harold T. Read, Vice Pres.
        JAMES-Debra. Inspired leader, devoted colleague. She created a spirited community of faculty, staff and students across this large institution. She supported and nurtured the aspirations of our academic and professional programs. She was a fine and lovely person with a generous spirit. She was a friend to all of us, and we feel a profound loss. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family, and in particular to her sons, Michael and James, who were always in her heart. The Deans' Council of New York University
        JAMES-Debra. If NYU has achieved its record in fundraising, it was largely due to the fact that our dear colleague, Debra James, helped make the University a great center of academic learning. On behalf of the Office for University Development and Alumni Relations, we express our deepest sympathy to her family and children, and we mourn her loss. Naomi B. Levine, Sr. V.P. for External Affairs David Koehler, Assoc V.P. for External Affairs
        JAMES-Debra. The Trustees of New York University grieve the loss of Debra James, a distinguished and beloved member of the University community. Her kindness, grace, dedication, and long service to the University gave her a special place in our hearts. Her absence will be keenly felt. We extend our sympathies to her family and loved ones. Martin Lipton, Chairman, NYU Board of Trustees
        JAMES-Debra. Valued colleague and dear friend. We will miss her positive spirit, caring ways and beauty. May she rest in peace. Pat Carey & Susan Greenbaum
      