
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Alan whose actions always expressed his decency, intellect and committment to his family and the community. He will be deeply missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Helene and their children. From Stuart & Harriet Levine.
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. It is with deep personal sadness and professional regret that we mourn the passing of a long time industry colleague and friend. In the competitive field of fine jewelry retailing, Alan Fortunoff stands as an outstanding entrepreneur. He will be remembered as a man of integrity who always honored his word. Not only a businessman with drive and vision who transformed one small store into a successful chain, Alan was also a very civic-minded individual. He was a man of the community-a true philanthropist who used the position of prominence he earned for the betterment of others. Our sincere condolences to his family. We will all miss Alan. Gedalio, Sonia, Efraim and the entire Grinberg family
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. The Board of Directors of The Miriam Weiner Routes to Roots Foundation mourns the death of its beloved Board member, esteemed supporter and benefactor. He was always available to share with us his sage and practical advice as well as his considerable resources and handson assistance whenever needed. Our Foundation-and the world at large-has lost a kind-hearted and generous friend. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Helene and all of Alan's devoted and loving family. Miriam Weiner, President Michael Brenner Marjorie Goldberg Harvey M. Krueger Ernest W. Michel Leonard Polisar
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. The Movado Group extends sincere and heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of Mr. Alan Fortunoff. In the world of retailing, Alan was unique. He brought innovation, dedication and a singular vision to the jewelry industry. Alan created his own special niche in retailing, turning a few stores into a big business. In our industry, he will be remembered as one of the outstanding retailers of his time. It was our pleasure to know Alan and to do business with him. He remains in our thoughts, and our sympathies extend to everyone he touched. The people of Movado Group
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished and devoted member Alan Fortunoff. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved wife, Helene, their children and their entire family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn, Thursday, July 6, 2000 at 1 P.M. Rabbi Michael White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Michael J. Paul, President
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. Sh'or Yoshuv joins American and world Jewry in mourning the passing of Alan Fortunoff, well known philanthropist and an outstanding moral and ethical human being. Board of Directors Rabbis, Teachers, Students and Community
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. The Trustees of Old Westbury Gardens mourn the loss of our Trustee, Alan Fortunoff. We express profound condolences to his wife, Helene, his children, and his grandchildren.
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. The Staff of the Ross Companies mourn the loss of their dear friend and client, Alan M. Fortunoff. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Fortunoff family.
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. With great sorrow we join the Fortunoff family in mourning the passing of our beloved friend, Alan Fortunoff. Arnold and Lila Ross and Family
        FORTUNOFF - Alan. Solmon Schechter of Nassau County mourns the loss of Alan Fortunoff. Our dear friend and supporter.
      