
        SACK-Harold. Preeminent dealer in Americana and authority in American Antiques, age 89, passed away July 9, 2000. Born of Israel and Ann Sack in Lynn, Massachusetts, March 6, 1911. Graduated Boston Latin School Class of 1928. Graduated Dartmouth College, Class of 1932. Magna cum Laude, Phi Beta Kappa. He entered the family business to join his illustrious father Israel Sack in 1933. Israel Sack had established an enviable reputation as the Dean of American antiques during his Boston career. To revive the family business during the Depression, Harold Sack took charge as President and CEO. During his career in this capacity, he formed many major, private collections of Americana in whole or in part and masterpieces to the Metropolitan Museum and other museums. He headed the donation of the Israel Sack Galleries in the Metropolitan Museum and gave installation to the Hood Museum in Dartmouth as well as the Art Institute of Chicago. He served as the trusted adviser to Clem Conger in forming the Diplomatic Reception Rooms in the Department of State. Harold Sack and Lawrence Fleischman founded and chaired the Channel 13 auctions, which earned millions for Public Television. He served as Trustee in the Baltimore Museum of Art and the Museum had a special ceremony to honor his service. Together with his brothers Albert and Robert the firm Israel Sack, Inc. maintained the tradition set by Israel Sack and were to a great extent responsible for the present recognition of the importance of American furniture contributions. He lectured extensively and many of his articles were published in Antiques Magazine and elsewhere. His book: American Treasure Hunt, the Legend of Israel Sack and his contributions to the 10 Volumes of American Antiques from the Israel Sack Collection number his contributions. In 1996, Israel Sack and sons, Harold, Albert & Robert received the prestigious Henry F. duPont Award for outstanding achievement in this field, the only time this award was offered to a dealer. In 1989 he purchased at auction the Nicolas Brown desk and bookcase for 12.1 million dollars. This was the highest price paid at that time for any work of art outside of a painting. He leaves a devoted wife, Lauretta. Four sons: Dr. Kenneth Sack (Tiburon, CA), David Sack (Pearland, TX), Michael Sack (Philadelphia, PA) and Dr. Daniel Sack, (New York City). Two brothers: Albert Sack (New York City) and Robert Sack (Ossining, NY). Eight grandchildren: Darren, Jeffery, Elizabeth, Allison, Jennifer, Jacob, Myra and Leah. He leaves a legacy to future generations that will carry the banner of Americana. His warmth, his integrity, and the affection he inspired in those whose lives he touched matched his contributions. He will be missed. Donations to the National Hemophilia Foundation 116 West 32nd Street 11 Floor, New York, NY 10001 212-328-3700 or Diplomatic Receptions Rooms Office of the Director at Department of State Washington, DC 20520 will be greatly appreciated. SACK-Harold. The Board and Members of The National Antique & Art Dealers Association of America, Inc., mourns the death of our long-time and valued member, Harold Sack, an outstanding leader in the field of American furniture. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his partners, his brothers, Albert and Robert, and the family. Andrew H. Chait, Pres. Arlie Sulka, Sec'y SACK-Harold Albert. The Officers and Staff of William Doyle Galleries extend their deepest sympathies to the family of Harold Sack. His contributions to the field of american furniture will forever be remembered. SACK-Harold. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Harold Sack, and send condolences to his family.
      