
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our longtime friend and supporter, Alan Fortunoff. Together with his wife, Helene, he received ADL's 1998 Champion of Liberty Award for his commitment to justice and equality and to his community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Helene and the entire Fortunoff family. Howard P. Berkowitz National Chair Abraham H. Foxman National Director Michael Faltischek Chair Long Island Regional Board Phyllis Barell Director Long Island Regional Office
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. The NYU Law School community is saddened by the loss of our esteemed Trustee, Alan Fortunoff. ('55 LL.M. '74). His tireless work ethic and generous philanthropy make him a role model to which all present-day law students can and should aspire. The Helene and Alan Fortunoff Faculty Library will serve as a perpetual reminder of Alan, our benefactor and friend. We will always be proud of our association with him. We extend heartfelt condolences to Helene and the entire Fortunoff family. Lester Pollack, Chair, Board of Trustees John Sexton, Dean, New York University, School of Law
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. The Board of Trustees and Administration of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation is deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and supporter, Alan Fortunoff. He extended his kindness to Parker and to countless other causes in a quiet and dignified manner. We will be forever proud that our Department of Volunteer Services bears his good name. Our sincerest heartfelt condolences to his wife, Helene, their children, and the entire family. David Taub, Chairman of the Board Steven J. Frome & Alan J. Saperstein, Interim Co-Presidents
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. It is with the deepest of sorrow that we mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague. He was valued not only as a business associate but as a true philanthropist who, together with his wife, Helene, always gave with a graciousness and an open heart that established a legacy of charity perpetuated by his children and family. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Helene, and his children. May his memory serve as a continuous source of heavenly blessing for the entire family. With Love, Louis Glick and the entire staff of Louis Glick & Co
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Alan Fortunoff, a cherished friend and major supporter of our mission. Mr. Fortunoff left a legacy of hope for all those touched by his extraordinary generosity. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, our dear friend, Helene, and their children. May your memories be a blessing. Larry Zicklin, Board Chair James S. Tisch, President Arthur M. Katz, LI Cabinet Chair John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. The Nature Conservancy mourns the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Trustee Alan Fortunoff, a devoted conservationist and outdoors man. On behalf on the Nature Conservancy's Board and staff, we extend heartfelt condolences to Helene Fortunoff, their children and members of the Fortunoff family. Alan enriched us all with his wisdom, gentle manner and great love of community. James L. Larocca, Chairman Board of Trustees Paul Rabinovitch, Exec Director
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. It is with the deepest sadness that we mourn the passing of our dear friend of many years. He was truly a Renaissance man, with interests and knowledge in a wide range of subjects. His intellect, wit and personality set him apart. We will always remember him with great affection. Our most heartfelt sympathy is extended to Helene and all of the family. Bobby and Maurie Deane
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their esteemed member, Alan, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Helene, and his family. Board of Governors Richard A. Horowitz, President
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. The Founder, Board of Trustees, Scientific Advisory Council and Staff of the Cancer Research Institute deeply mourn the untimely loss of Mr. Alan Fortunoff. The Institute values his longtime generosity and friendship.
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. I mourn the loss of my longtime friend Alan. I shall miss his friendship, wisdom and counsel. With deep sorrow Christina and I extend our heartfelt condolences to Helene and the entire Fortunoff family. Salvador J. Assael
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. We extend our sincere and heartfelt condolences to the family of Alan Fortunoff. He will be deeply missed. Salvador J. Assael, Chairman, and all the staff at Assael International Inc.
        FORTUNOFF-Alan. We mourn the loss of our dear cousin, a dedicated family leader, outstanding businessman and generous philanthropist. He will be greatly missed. Everett and Isabel Fortunoff
      