
        COLEMAN-Thomas A. Of New York City and Spring Lake, NJ on July 14, 2000 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. Son of the late John A. Coleman and Ann Meehan Coleman and brother of the late John A. Coleman, Jr. Survived by his beloved sister Mary Ann Hagerty of Sea Island, GA., his niece Elizabeth H. Dessen of Ambler, PA, and his nephews John A. Coleman III of New York City, Harry C. Hagerty III of Osterville, MA, and John C. Hagerty of Summit, NJ. He was a long-time member of the New York Stock Exchange and a Senior Partner of Adler, Coleman & Co., a specialist firm on the NYSE. He served as a member of the Board of Directors of the NYSE, the New York Futures Exchange and the East River Savings Bank. Mr. Coleman was a graduate, Benefactor and long-time Trustee of the University of Notre Dame and served on the Advisory Board of the University's College of Business. He received Honorary Doctorates from both Notre Dame and St. Bonaventure University. Mr. Coleman was a long-time Benefactor of St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center and served most recently as Chairman of St. Vincent's Board of Trustees. He was an Honorary Commissioner of the New York Fire Department, the New York Police Department and the City of Philadelphia Police Department and was a Trustee of the NYFD's Honor Emergency Fund. He served Notre Dame as Honorary Chief of the Fire Department and Honorary Director of Public Safety for the University. Mr. Coleman was past President of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York and member of the Board of Founders of the Knights of Malta. He served as a Trustee of St. Patrick's Cathedral, Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, the Alfred E. Smith Foundation, the College of Mount St. Vincent and the New York Foundling Hospital. The family will receive friends at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave., New York on Saturday, July 15 and Sunday, July 16 from 2-5 and 7-9 PM. A Mass of Christian burial will be said at 10:15 AM on Monday, July 17 at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Coleman Family Center for Campus Ministry at the University of Notre Dame, South Bend, IN, the Honor Emergency Fund c/o New York City Fire Department; and the Police Relief Fund Inc., c/o New York City Police Department.
        COLEMAN-Thomas A. The CoSponsors, the Board of Trustees, Medical Staff, and the Administration of Saint Vincents Catholic Medical Centers of New York, note with deep sadness the death of our longtime friend and dedicated benefactor, Thomas A. Coleman, who served as Chairman of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center's Board of Trustees. Mr. Coleman was a member of Saint Vincents Hospital's Board of Trustees since 1976 and was actively involved in both the Finance and Development Committees. He served with distinction as Chairman of the Board beginning in 1992. He was also a member of the newly formed Manhattan/ Westchester Regional Board of Saint Vincents Catholic Medical Centers of New York. Through his many years of dedication, Mr. Coleman provided advisory assistance to past presidents of the Hospital, and was instrumental in building the Hospital's endowment and ensuring its fiscal stability. In 1988, Mr. Coleman was the first recipient of the Hospital's ''Angelus Award'' which is presented annually to an individual who has demonstrated an outstanding commitment to excellence in healthcare and whose volunteer efforts further the mission of Saint Vincents Hospital. Mr. Coleman set the precedent and standard for this award. He was a tireless fundraiser who not only personally supported the Hospital, but also through countless volunteer hours, attracted major donations from corporations, foundations and private individuals. A proponent of the Hospital research and clinical education programs, he underwrote a number of the Hospital's programs including the Pulmonary Medicine Fellowship in the Department of Medicine. His deep commitment to the Archdiocese of New York and the Sisters of Charity was manifested by his role as a Trustee of St. Patrick's Cathedral, Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, the College of Mount St. Vincent and the New York Foundling Hospital. He was also dedicated to his alma mater, the University of Notre Dame where he served as a member of the Board of Trustees. As a respected philanthropic leader, citizen and humanitarian who personified the spirit and highest ideals of our system, words could never convey the sadness that the Saint Vincents' family feels at this time. We extend our deepest condolences to his sister Mary Ann Hagerty and his entire family. David J. Campbell, President/ CEO, Saint Vincents Catholic Medical Centers of New York Most Reverend Joseph M. Sullivan, Co-Chair, Saint Vincents Catholic Medical Centers of New York Elizabeth A. Vermaelen, S.C., Co-Chair, Saint Vincents Catholic Medical Centers of New York
        COLEMAN-Thomas A. The Members of the Board of Trustees of The Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York and the Priest, religious, lay staff and volunteers record with heartfelt sympathy the death of Thomas A. Coleman. He served as a Member of our Board of Trustees for 22 years with great distinction. We treasure greatly his friendship, the inspiration of his leadership and wisdom of his counsel. His generous giving of himself, his openhearted generosity and loving service have been an outstanding example of faith and love in action and have given new hope to families, children, the sick, the aged, the handicapped and all served by Catholic Charities. We express our sincere condolences to all the members of the Coleman family. May our Gracious God reward him abundantly and grant him the fullness of love and peace forever. Archbishop Edward M. Egan, President Rev. Msgr. James J. Murray, Secretary
        COLEMAN-Thomas A. The Society of the Friendly Sons of Saint Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the passing of our former President (1980-1981), Life Member and senior advisor, Thomas A. Coleman. His late father, John A. Coleman, served as President in 1948 and 1949, and his late brother, John A. Coleman, Jr. served as Almoner from 1993 to 1995. For more than half a century, the Society has benefited immeasurably from the selfless devotion and multi-faceted talents of the Coleman family. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr. Historian
        COLEMAN - Thomas A. We mourn the passing of Thomas A. Coleman, who served with distinction as a Member of the Board of Trustees since 1962. Honor Emergency Fund NYC Fire Department
      