
        SCHWARTZ-Harold, D.D.S. 79, of New York City and Candlewood Lake, CT, on June 30, 2000. Loving husband of Joyce Pomeroy Schwartz. Beloved father to David, Evan and Billy and their wives, Harriet, Kristine and Terry. Adored grandfather of Rebecca, Jonathan, Alix, Liam and Delaney. Dear brother of Doris Feldman and great friend and brother-inlaw of Lee and Sarah Pomeroy. Cherished uncle to Jordana, Jeremy, Ali Pomeroy, Ellen Goodgold and Nancy Feldman Sayres. A quiet man, he was an uncompromising professional of integrity and distinction who was loved and appreciated by his patients. He inspired and encouraged his children, younger colleagues and students to achieve excellence in their work and enjoy life fully. A specialist in prosthodontics in Manhattan from 1961 to 1992, he began practicing dentistry where he grew up, Belle Harbor in Rockaway, Queens. He was a Captain in the US Navy during World War II. A Clinical Professor of Prosthodontics at New York University College of Dentistry, he taught graduate and undergraduate students from 1962 to 1999, and was Assistant Clinical Professor at the University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine from 1952-1962. A Fellow of the Academy of Prosthodontics, he served as President of the Greater New York Academy of Prosthodontics in 1978 and President of the Northeast Gnathological Society in 1983. Dr. Schwartz became a diplomate of the American Board of Prosthodontics in 1961 and was a charter Fellow of the American College of Prosthodontics and the American Academy of Aesthetic Dentistry. He was an avid athlete accomplished in water skiing, tennis, squash, badminton and ping-pong, and a member of the City Athletic Club since 1961. He loved gardening and with his wife shared an interest in Native American, African and contemporary art. Contributions can be made to ''The Harold Schwartz D.D.S. Memorial Fund'' to support prosthodontics at New York University College of Dentistry, Department of Development, 345 E. 24th St, New York, NY 10010. Services are Wednesday, July 5, 6 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
      