
        AMGOTT-Milton, lawyer and public servant, died in his sleep Tuesday at his home in New York City. He was 81 and suffered from depression. An attorney in private practice Mr. Amgott was active in New York State government and politics for decades. He served briefly as Assistant Attorney General of New York State or ''Attorney Colonel'' as he liked to say. He was counsel to several committees of the State Assembly and drafted the current statutes on eminent domain, the rights of mental health patients and the state's 5-cent deposit on cans and bottles. He was a longtime member of the Liberal Party. Mr. Amgott primarily represented writers including Robert Ludlum, Eric Van Lustbader and Donald E. Westlake, who dedicated his novel ''The Hot Rock'' to ''Milt Amgott, who helped keep me from a life of crime by making it superfluous.'' He also represented many science fiction writers including James Blish and Theodore Sturgeon. He loved words above all. In addition to writing laws and contracts for a living, he spoke several languages including Serbo-Croatian and Middle English, enjoyed mysteries and the late work of James Joyce, and inked in the New York Times crossword every day. During W.W. II he served in the Army preparing intelligence reports and debriefing German prisoners. He landed on D Day at Utah Beach carrying two typewriters and no rifle. Mr. Amgott graduated Phi Beta Kappa from New York University and received law degrees from NYU and Brooklyn Law School. He was born in New York City on August 13, 1918, the son of Meyer and Rose Kaminicker Amgott. He is survived by his wife, Madeline Karr Amgott; a daughter, Margo Amgott of Briarcliff Manor, NY; a son, Seth of Washington, D.C.; a stepson Andy Karr of Halifax, NS; a stepdaughter, Katharine Karr Kaitin of Lexington, Massachusetts; a stepbrother, Daniel Platt of Forida and four grandchildren. His sister, Fay Rotenberg and a former wife Janet Laib Gottlieb, predeceased him. Funeral services will be held at 11:15A.M. Friday at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th St., NY, NY. Burial will be private.
      