
        YABLANS-Gerald. Leader in the point of purchase industry. President and CEO of POP Display International, a multinational display co. Died at age 62 at his home in Sands Point, LI. He leaves behind his beloved wife Phyllis of 41 years, his children Bryan and Linda Yablans, Robin and Norm Levy, Seth and Nicole Yablans and five loving grandchildren. We will miss our friend, teacher and mentor. Funeral services will be held July 20, 11:30 AM at Community Synagogue, Middle Neck Rd, Sands Point, NY. Contributions in Jerry's memory should be made to Yablans Research Fund, Nuclear Medicine, Cornell Medical Center, 525 E. 68th St, NY, NY 10021 c/o Dr. Stan Goldsmith.
        YABLANS-Gerald. We mourn the passing of Gerald Yablans, an outstanding and innovative businessman, and inspiring friend and devoted husband and father. We extend our deepest sympathy, to his wife, Phyllis and his children Seth, Bryan and Robin Levy. The world has lost a great person and benefactor. Milton S. Shapiro Scott E. Mollen Graubard, Mollen and Miller
        YABLANS-Gerald. The congregation of The Community Synagogue of Port Washington notes with sorrow the passing of its member and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Funeral service at the synagogue on Thursday, July 20 at 11:30 AM. Rabbi Jeffrey K. Salkin Jane M. Broido, President
        YABLANS-Gerald. A man that did so much for so many. Our thoughts and love to his wife Phyllis, his children and grandchildren. Rest easy Sweetheart. We will always love you. Anita, Al and children
        YABLANS-Jerry. There is such a thing as a bad day. A very special friend is gone but his caring, giving and loving deeds will be remembered forever. Jerry left us a treasure...his memory. Millie & Lenny.
        YABLONS-Gerald. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the untimely death of Gerald Yablons, a true and valued friend of the Home. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife Phyllis and devoted children Bryan (Linda), Robin (Norman Levy) and Seth (Nicole). We hope that your shared memoires of a loving husband, father and grandfather will bring comfort to each of you at this time of sadness and loss.
      