
        KARSKI-Jan. The officers, members and staff of the American Jewish Committee deeply mourn the death of Jan Karski, a courier of courage. Jan Karski was a diplomat, a Righteous Gentile, a messenger for the Polish underground resistance during World War II, and an eyewitness to the systematic Nazi extermination of the Jews in Poland. He risked his own life to report the unimaginable atrocities he had seen to the Polish, British and American governments and to plead for help in saving Jewish lives. Modestly referring to himself as a ''human tape recorder'', he was, in actuality, a trumpet, heralding the harsh tones of human indifference and cruelty, while at the same time personifying the indomitable spirit and inherent goodness that mankind can still possess. He devoted his postwar life to protecting the memory of the victims of the Holocaust, combating anti-Semitism and intolerance, and advancing the cause of human rights. In 1993, the AJC bestowed our highest honor on Jan Karski, and in 1999, he was the first recipient of the Eternal Light Award from the Center for Catholic/Jewish Studies, a collaboration of AJC and Saint Leo University. With great sorrow we now bid farewell to a dear frienda gentleman and a gentle man of enormous personal courage and profound moral integrity. We will cherish his memory as near to our hearts as he cradled the souls of the millions of Jews he never knew but tried to rescue. Bruce M. Ramer, President David A. Harris, Excutive Director
        KARSKI-Jan. The Polish American Congress mourns the passing of Jan Karski and offers sympathy to his friends and family. Faithful to his Catholic tradition, Jan Karski was a hero for Poland and for all humanity. He championed the cause of the victims of the Holocaust and his spirit stands as a shining example of dedication to the principles of freedom, truth and the dignity of mankind. As a member of the Polish underground A.K. he came before the Western Allies to plead for Poland's Jews but was met with indifference. He later witnessed a similar indifference when the West consigned the freedom of postwar Poland into the Soviet orbit. May God grant eternal rest to the soul of Jan Karski. Holocaust Documentation Committee Frank Milewski, Chair Michael Preisler, Auschwitz 22213, Co-Chair
        KARSKI-Jan. The Simon Wiesenthal Center and its 400,000 constituent members mourn the loss of Jan Karski, one of the most courageous heroes of the Holocaust and WWII. At great personal risk, he penetrated the ghettos and camps of Poland and brought that witness to the highest levels of Allied leadership. His personal commitment serves as an example of a caring individual and stands as a model for us all. Rabbi Marvin Hier, Dean and Founder Nelson Peltz, Co-Chair, Board of Trustees & the entire SWC family
      