
        SAFRO-Paul. Beloved husband of Rose and the late Miriam. Loving father of Julia & Robert Edelman, Marti & Leonard Kutnik, Naomi Kolbrenner, Adele and Joseph Browdy, and Lee & Jerry Tresser, Miriam & Ivan Fulop, Roy Roth. Cherished grandfather of Allen & Suzanne, Linda and Michael, Michael, Marc & Shawn, Scott and Caryn, Adam, Seth, Michelle & Keith, Jordan, Cherilynn & David, Jodi, Jared, Michael and Alex. Great-grandfather of Matthew, Samantha, Benjamin, Nicole, Jacob, Casey, Alexa. Dear brother of Judy Korn, Ruth and Ben Cohen, Bonnie and the late Al Safro. Adored uncle. Certified public accountant, senior partner of Fox & Co. Member of NYS Society of CPAs. Author of many tax books. Former President of Bnai Zion & Kfar Masada. Former member of General Council of World Zionist Organizations. Temple Beth-El of Cedarhurst, Temple Emanuel of Palm Beach. Associate & Founder of Hadassah. Board of Directors of Jewish Federation of Palm Beach, UJA United Israel Appeal, American Friends of Tel Aviv University, Beth Hatefutsoth, World Jewish Congress, Israel Bond Organization, Flushing National Bank. Founder of Eleanor Roosevelt Institute for Cancer Research of South Shore. Exhibited a great generosity of spirit, will be sorely missed by all. Donations to Hadassah, Beth Hatefutsoth. Services Tuesday, 11:15 AM, at Boulevard Riverside, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island.
        SAFRO-Paul. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University, its Board and staff are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and colleague, Paul Safro, a man with an indomitable spirit and inspiring vision. He devoted his life to the Jewish people and the State of Israel. He valued knowledge and scientific research and enabled many young people to pursue a higher education. His guidance and generosity served as a model for us all. Paul was an officer of American Friends of Tel Aviv University and a member of the Board of Governors of Tel Aviv University. He will be sorely missed. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Rose and his entire family. Alan Aufzien, Board Chairman Melvin Taub, Chairman Emeritus Robert Topchik, President Stephen Lecker, Executive V.P.
      