
        COLEMAN-Thomas A. Of New York City and Spring Lake, NJ on July 14, 2000 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. Son of the late John A. Coleman and Ann Meehan Coleman and brother of the late John A. Coleman, Jr. Survived by his beloved sister Mary Ann Hagerty of Sea Island, GA., his niece Elizabeth H. Dessen of Ambler, PA, and his nephews John A. Coleman III of New York City, Harry C. Hagerty III of Osterville, MA, and John C. Hagerty of Summit, NJ. He was a long-time member of the New York Stock Exchange and a Senior Partner of Adler, Coleman & Co., a specialist firm on the NYSE. He served as a member of the Board of Directors of the NYSE, the New York Futures Exchange and the East River Savings Bank. Mr. Coleman was a graduate, Benefactor and long-time Trustee of the University of Notre Dame and served on the Advisory Board of the University's College of Business. He received Honorary Doctorates from both Notre Dame and St. Bonaventure University. Mr. Coleman was a long-time Benefactor of St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center and served most recently as Chairman of St. Vincent's Board of Trustees. He was an Honorary Commissioner of the New York Fire Department, the New York Police Department and the City of Philadelphia Police Department and was a Trustee of the NYFD's Honor Emergency Fund. He served Notre Dame as Honorary Chief of the Fire Department and Honorary Director of Public Safety for the University. Mr. Coleman was past President of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York and member of the Board of Founders of the Knights of Malta. He served as a Trustee of St. Patrick's Cathedral, Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, the Alfred E. Smith Foundation, the College of Mount St. Vincent and the New York Foundling Hospital. The family will receive friends at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave., New York on Saturday, July 15 and Sunday, July 16 from 2-5 and 7-9 PM. A Mass of Christian burial will be said at 10:15 AM on Monday, July 17 at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Coleman Family Center for Campus Ministry at the University of Notre Dame, South Bend, IN, the Honor Emergency Fund c/o New York City Fire Department; and the Police Relief Fund Inc., c/o New York City Police Department.
        COLEMAN-Thomas A. The Trustees, officers, faculty, staff, students and alumni of the University of Notre Dame mourn the death and celebrate the life of Thomas A. Coleman. A 1956 alumnus of Notre Dame, he became one of the University's most influential leaders, most generous benefactors and most constant friends. A 32 year member of the advisory council for the University's Mendoza College of Business, he was elected a University Trustee in 1984 and was awarded an honorary doctorate of laws in 1993. He also held the titles of honorary fire chief in the Notre Dame Fire Department and honorary director of public safety with Notre Dame Security/Police. He was the 1998 recipient of the prestigious Rev. Howard J. Kenna, C.S.C., Award for distinguished service to both Notre Dame and its founding religious community, the Congregation of Holy Cross. Among his most notable benefactions to the University was a gift to underwrite the $7-million restoration of the historic Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame. With its 19th-century murals and stained glass windows brilliantly revitalized, the church subsequently was designated the Basilica of the Sacred Heart by Pope John Paul II. Even as we mourn him, the fruit of his most recent gift-the Coleman Family Center for Campus Ministry-nears completion on the Notre Dame campus. Named by him in memory of his parents, the late John A. Coleman and Ann Meehan Coleman, and brother, the late John A. Coleman Jr., the center will be a most fitting legacy-the heart of the University's spiritual outreach to students, faculty and staff through liturgies, retreats, religious education and other ministries. The entire Notre Dame family extends our most heartfelt condolences to his sister, Mary Ann Hagerty, his niece, Elizabeth H. Dessen, and his nephews, John A. Coleman III, Harry C. Hagerty III, and John C. Hagerty. He will be sorely missed. Eternal rest grant unto him, O Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon him. May he rest in peace. Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., President Patrick F. McCartan, Chairman of the Board of Trustees
        COLEMAN-Thomas A. The Members of the Board of Trustees of The Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York and the Priest, religious, lay staff and volunteers record with heartfelt sympathy the death of Thomas A. Coleman. He served as a Member of our Board of Trustees for 22 years with great distinction. We treasure greatly his friendship, the inspiration of his leadership and wisdom of his counsel. His generous giving of himself, his openhearted generosity and loving service have been an outstanding example of faith and love in action and have given new hope to families, children, the sick, the aged, the handicapped and all served by Catholic Charities. We express our sincere condolences to all the members of the Coleman family. May our Gracious God reward him abundantly and grant him the fullness of love and peace forever. Archbishop Edward M. Egan, President Rev. Msgr. James J. Murray, Secretary
      