
        MLOTEK-Joseph. Beloved husband of Eleanor Chana. Devoted father of Zalmen & Mark. Brother and grandfather. Former Educational Director of the Workmens' Circles Arbeiter Ring. Co-Editor of the Yiddish Forward. Leader in the secular Jewish movement. Editor, teacher, author, poet and noted speaker. Services Wednesday 10AM, Riverside Chapel, 76th. Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New York City.
        MLOTEK-Joseph. The Forward Association mourns the death of one of the pre-eminent Yiddish educators and cultural impresarios of the past half century. A son of Polish Jewry, he found his voice as a journalist and poet in the publications of the Jewish Labor Bund. He escaped the destruction of his world, and helped to revitalize its language and culture on American soil. As educational director of the Workmen's Circle, Yosl Mlotek's weekly radio programs, cultural third seder and free Summer concerts of Yiddish theater and folk songs in the parks of New York attracted and enriched the lives of many thousands. For the last three decades, he and his wife Chana wrote a regular column in the Yiddish Forward, ''Pearls Of Yiddish Poetry,'' that engaged their many readers in recalling and searching out songs and poems from an earlier time. From that column, they compiled four authoritative anthologies and many recordings. He was a past-president of the Association, managing editor of our Yiddish edition, winner of the Manger Prize, and a friend and colleague whose wise counsel we will miss. May his wife Chana, sons Zalmen and Mark, sister Sara and their families be comforted in their loss. Barnett Zumoff, MD, President Samuel Norich, General Manager
        MLOTEK-Joseph. The Van Cortlandt Workmen's Circle Community House and Branch 137E deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed member who was a tireless advocate and champion of Yiddish and Jewish culture. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife Eleanor (Chane), his sons Zalmen and Mark and the rest of the bereaved family.
        MLOTEK-Joseph. With a heavy heart, the Folksbiene Yiddish Theatre mourns the passing of one of the last lions and defenders of the Yiddish word. We will not see the likes of such a man again. Our love and deep condolences to the entire Mlotek family.
      