
        FREEDMAN-Arnold M., Ph.D., Lt. Col., U.S. Army, Retired. Colonel Freedman was born in Manhattan on June 21, 1918. He attended St. John's University and the City College of New York. At the start of World War II, he was commissioned a 2nd Lieutenant and served as a combat Infantry Officer in the New Guinea, East Indies and Philippine campaigns. He received battlefield promotions to 1st Lt. and Captain, and was awarded the Combat Infantryman Badge, two Purple Heart Medals, the Bronze Star Medal for Valor, two Presidential Merit Citations, the Philippine Liberation Medal and four other medals. In the Korean War, he was promoted to Major and was a battalion Commander, 15th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division. He was awarded a second Combat Infantry Badge, Silver Star Medal, a second Bronze Star for Valor, two Presidential Merit Citations and five other medals. Early in the Vietnam War, he was promoted to the permanent rank of Lieutenant Colonel. He commanded battalions in the 364th and 2nd Infantry Regiments. He served as Executive Officer and Second-in-Command of the 1st Infantry Training Regiment. For outstanding service in peace-time assignments, he was awarded the Army Commendation Medal four times. Upon retirement in 1962, Colonel Freedman pursued his long held interest in Latin American history, earning a Ph.D from the University of Florida. He was Professor of History and Political Science at Palm Beach Junior College from 1964 to 1987 and had been named Professor of Distinction. Colonel Freedman is survived by his beloved wife, Gabriella Irazabal Freedman of West Palm Beach; a brother and sister-in-law, Dr. Henry and Barbara of Princeton, NJ; a nephew, Dr. Jonathan Freedman of Boston; his mother-in-law, Sheila Irazabal of Miami; his brotherin-law and wife, Alexander and Elena Nauta; two nieces, Clementina and Silvia, and nephew, Alejandro; two sisters-in-law, Angelica Nauta and Veronica Irazabal; and his devoted dog, Pepa. Colonel Freedman was a life member of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Retired Officers' Asssociation, the 15th Infantry Regiment Association, the Military Order of the Purple Heart, the Society of the Third Infantry Division, and the Masonic Order, 32. We will miss the twinkle in his eyes, his sense of humor and his zest for life. He was blessed with a sense of duty and responded without hesitation. A graveside funeral service with full military honors will be held at 3:00 P.M., Wed., July 12, Arlington National Cemetery, Arlington, VA.
      