
        BANKS-Benjamin M., M.D. Dr. Benjamin M. Banks died on August 6, 2000, at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston after a long illness. He was 93. He was predeceased by his wife Alice, to whom he was married for sixtynine years. He is survived by his children, Dr. Peter and Naomi Banks, and Joanne and Norman Matthews, his siblings Dr. Henry and Judy Banks, and Pearl and William Kaufman; and his grandchildren: Gary and Lisa Matthews, Drs. Jeffrey and Joan Matthews, Pam and Seth Farber, and Daniel Banks and Deborah Banks. He had 10 great-grandchildren: Craig, Scott, & Jake Matthews, Jonathan, David and Adam Matthews, and Allison, Andrew, Michael, and Matthew Farber. Dr. Banks was a distinguished physician, teacher, and researcher. A first generation American who grew up in Boston's North End, he was graduated from Harvard College (1926), cum laude and Junior Phi Beta Kappa and Harvard Medical School (1930). His post graduate training in Medicine was at Boston's Beth Israel Hospital and in Gastroenterology at the Mayo Clinic. In 1933 he began more than fifty years of medical practice in Gastroenterology in Boston & clinical teaching at Harvard Medical School. He volunteered for active duty in the Army Medical Corps nine months before Pearl Harbor. For 5 years, he served as Chief of Medicine at Walter Reed General Hospital in Washington, the Schick General Hospital in Clinton, Iowa, and the 142nd General Hospital in Calcutta, India. He achieved the rank of full Colonel and received the Legion of Merit award for his contribution to the care of military patients. By his example, he created an academic medical dynasty of which he was very proud. His son, Dr. Peter Banks, is Professor of Medicine at Harvard and Chief of Clinical Gastrointestinal Services at the Brigham and Women's Hospital; his grandson, Dr. Jeffrey Matthews is Associate Professor of Surgery at Harvard Medical School and Chief of the Division of General and Gastrointestinal Surgery at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center; and his brother Dr. Henry Banks is Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Orthopaedics at Tufts University School of Medicine. Dr. Banks was a member of the American Gastroenterological Association, the International Bockus Society. He was a Trustee of Temple Israel in Boston, Chairman of the Boston Chapter of the American Jewish Committee, and former Vice President of the Greater Boston Brandeis Club. In 1967, by appointment of Governor Volpe, he served as member of the Public Health Council of Massachusetts for five years. His funeral is at Temple Israel of Boston on Tuesday, August 8 at 11:00 AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Dr. Peter A. Banks Education Fund, C/O Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA. 02115.
      