
        GOLDSTEIN-Dr. Gabriel F. Dearly beloved husband of Bobbye S. Goldstein and wonderful father and father-in-law of Frederic S. Goldstein and Phyllis Lefton Goldstein. Cherished grandfather of Jeffrey and Emily. Devoted son and son-in-law of the late Rabbi Herbert S. Goldstein and Rebecca Fischel Goldstein of the West Side Institutional Synagogue and the late Rev. Jacob Schwartz and Lottie G. Schwartz of Congregation B'nai Jeshurun. Dear brother of Simeon H. F. Goldstein (Naomi), the late Josephine Goldstein Reichel (Rabbi O. Asher Reichel) and Naomi Goldstein Cohen (Rabbi Shear Yashuv Cohen). Cherished brother-in-law of Eleanor Schwartz Pearl and Shirley Frances Flax. Special uncle and greatuncle to his nieces and nephews. Funeral services at Congregation B'nai Jeshurun, 257 West 88 St. at 12 noon on Thursday, August 10. Shiva will be observed.
        GOLDSTEIN-Dr. Gabriel F. Manhattan Reading Council of the International Reading Association mourns the passing of its dedicated Board member, Dr. Gabriel F. Goldstein, husband of our Honorary President, Bobbye S. Goldstein; founder of the Council's annual Parents and Reading Conference.
        GOLDSTEIN-Dr. Gabriel F. The Harry and Jane Fischel Foundation records with deep sorrow the passing of its President, a kind hearted and upright man, who feared God and pursued righteousness. A wonderful Jew and a great American. The funeral takes place today Thursday, August 10, 2000 at 12 noon at The Bnai Jeshurun Synagogue in New York City. We send sincerest condolences to his devoted wife, Bobbye, his son, Frederick S. Goldstein, his brother, Simeon H.F. Goldstein, both Directors of our Foundation, and to his sister, Dr. Naomi G. Cohen, wife of our Director, and President, of Machon Harry Fischel, Chief Rabbi of Haifa, Shear Yashuv Cohen. Rabbi O. Asher Reichel, Chairman of The Board Michael D. Jaspan, Vice President Ronald H. Jaspan, Secretary
        GOLDSTEIN-Gabriel F. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of our generous benefactor, President of the Harry Fischel Foundation. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife, Bobbye, his devoted son Fred and to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        GOLDSTEIN-Gabriel. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Simeon Goldstein upon the loss of his brother, Dr. Gabriel Goldstein. We express profound condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President
      