
        BLOOM-Joseph J. Beloved husband of Harriet; devoted father of Myron and Wendy; cherished grandfather of Adam, Ethan, Sara, Rachel, Amy, Debra, and Evan. Loving brother of Frieda, Aaron, and Bernie. Services Monday, 2 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY.
        BLOOM-Joseph J. The partners and staff of Joseph J. Bloom mourn the passing of a giant in the accounting profession and a leader in Jewish philanthropy. His dedication to the finest professional standards nurtures the performance of our daily responsibilities, forty-five years after the founding of the firm. He shall be remembered as a leader among men, a beacon to follow whose genuine understanding of how to deal with people guided us throughout his tenure as he built an everlasting reputation. In the world of Jewish leadership he understood dedication to the cause of Zionism, Jewish tradition, understanding and Jewish unity. We shall benefit from his pervasive desire to help all who are in need and his sense of fairness. The beauty of his love of man enhanced our lives. We pray Harriet, Myron, Wendy and all the grandchildren will find strength to bear the sorrow of his passing from the glow of his warmth and special character. The partners and staff of Bloom Hochberg & Co.
        BLOOM-Joseph J. Rita and I together with our children Mitchell, Richard and Jonathan mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Joe Bloom. He and Harriet have filled our lives with a sense of identity and joy compatible with parents and siblings. The happiness together we experienced during Joe's life will be sustained during our remaining days by Joe's teaching, respect for others and fairness. He taught the importance of Jewish identity, love of Zion and the values in Jewish life. We pray the family will find the strength in his fond memory to deal with their grief. Irwin Hochberg
        BLOOM-Joseph J. State of Israel Bonds mourns the passing of Joseph J. Bloom, an early supporter of bonds, Chairman of our Hollywood, FL, campaign, and longtime friend and business partner of our National Campaign Chairman, Irwin Hochberg. Our condolences to the family. His passion, vigor and commitment will be sorely missed. Gideon Patt, President and CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board
      