
        COHEN-Hyman. Died August 24, age 70. Survived and cherished by his wife of 50 years Mary, sons Peter and Howard, daughter Esther, grandchildren Paul and Max, daughters - in - law Gina and Deirdre, son-in-law Alan and sister Rebecca. Hyman Cohen was a veteran of the U.S. Army. He was an outstanding member of the community. He was known for his boundless energy and commitment to many worthy causes. He served as Vice President of the Manhattan Beach Jewish Center and as Chairman of its Baord of Governers; President of School Board District 21; Vice President of the Brighton Beach Community Group; Treasurer of the Infants Home of Brooklyn; President of the Ocean Front Development Corp, a non-profit organization for the betterment of the community. He was a member of Community Planning Baord Number 13, member of the Board of Governers of the Shore Front ''Y,'' and a member of the Jewish Veterans. For many years he sponsored and organized the annual dinner for the benefit of the New York Aquarium in Coney Island. He was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Brooklyn School for Special Children and a member of the Board of Directors of the National Kidney Foundation of New York and New Jersey. He was Chairman of the Kingsborough Community College Foundation. He was a loyal executive of Alexander Muss & Sons for 45 years, primarily as Vice President and General Manager of the Brighton Beach Bath and Racquet Club. He was also an officer of Deere Real Estate Services, Inc. Hy, will be remembered for his generosity, vitality and courage. Services today 10 AM, at Parkside Memorial Chapels, Inc, 2576 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn, New York.
        COHEN-Hyman. It is with great sorrow that the BSSC, its offices, Board of Trustees and staff note the passing of our distinguished board member Hy Cohen. His friendship, his dedication and his neverending commitment to the welfare of our developmentally disabled children and adults will be his key of admission into the gates of heaven. We are united as one voice offering our sympathies and condolences to his beloved wife, Mary, his children, his grandchildren and his entire family. Though visibly departed he will live in our hearts and in our minds forever. He was a man who cared for others and did something about it. We shall miss him. Brooklyn School for Special Children Sam S. Fierstein, President Edmund DiGiacomo, Chairman, Board of Trustees Rabbi Morris J. Block, Executive Director Sondra L. Grunes, Assistant Executive Director
        COHEN-Hyman, Chairman of the Kingsborough Community College Foundation, Inc. The administration, faculty, staff and students of Kingsborough Community College mourn the death of a much valued and trusted friend of the Kingsborough community. Dedicated, altruistic and hardworking, Mr. Cohen was tireless in his philanthropic efforts on behalf of the Kingsborough Community College Foundation and raised funds and support for many worthy cultural, educational and social programs. His contributions helped make possible a number of scholarships and awards that recognized academic excellence. He will remain an inspiration to many members of the Kingsborough community.
        COHEN-Hyman. The Executive Board and Board of Trustees of the National Kidney Foundation of New York/New Jersey and Gift of Life of New York mourn the passing of our fellow board member, friend and adviser, Hyman Cohen. Hy's commitment and support will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mary and the entire Cohen family. Ira Griefer, MD, President and Shirley Baer, Executive Director, National Kidney Foundation of NY/NJ and Marcey Feigenbaum, President, Gift of Life of New York.
      