
        SURDOVAL-Donald J. Age 67, of Saddle River, NJ, on Thursday, August 10, 2000. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Fitzpatrick). Devoted father of Lisa A. of Saddle River, NJ; Catherine A. of Nanuet, NY; Donald J. of Sparta, NJ; John G. of Sydney, Australia; and Brian G. of Hoboken, NJ. Loving grandfather of Donnie, Kaitlin, and Alison Surdoval. Mr. Surdoval was a First Lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corps and served during the Korean Conflict. A graduate of Manhattan College in 1954, he was a self-employed CPA for Surdoval Assoc. in Waldwick, NJ, since 1980. He was former VP and Controller of Norton Simon, Inc., of New York, NY, for 12 years. He also served on the Board of Directors at Calvary Hospital in Bronx, NY, for 25 years. He was past Treasurer of the Lion's Club and a member of the Knights of Columbus, both of Saddle River, NJ. He was also a member of many CPA associations: AICPA, NJSCPA and NYSCPA. Funeral mass 10 AM, Monday, at St. Gabriel's R.C. Church, Saddle River, NJ. Interment Cemetery of the Ascension, Monsey, NY. Visiting 2-4 and 7-9 PM, Sunday, at the Robert Spearing Funeral Home, Inc., 155 Kinderkamack Road, Park Ridge, NJ. Memorial donations may be made to Calvary Hospital, 1740 East Chester Road, Bronx, NY 10461.
        SURDOVAL-Donald J. On behalf of the Board of Directors, administration and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc., we mourn the passing of our longtime Board member and dear friend. Donald Surdoval served on the Hospital Board of Directors since 1977. He gave generously of his time, as Chairman of the Finance Committee and member of the Executive Committee. His commitment and leadership contributed greatly to the growth and success of the hospital program of care. We will miss Donald, both as a dedicated Board member, and as a friend. We extend our condolences to his wife Patricia and his family. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., M.D., Chairman of the Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President/ Executive Director Michael J. Brescia, M.D., Medical Director James E. Cimino, M.D., Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute
      