
        SWIG-Robert Jeffrey. Born in San Francisco on January 20, 1961, Robert J. Swig peacefully passed away in the early morning hours of August 19, 2000 at his Hillsborough home after a short illness. He leaves behind his wife of ten years, Kim Baldwin Swig; their three beautiful daughters, Sarah, Leah, and Rebecca; his twin brother, Kent; his brother, Steven; and his brother-in-law, Ted Parker. He was preceded in passing by his father, Melvin M. Swig; his mother, Marcia Hove Swig; his grandmother and grandfather, Mae and Benjamin Swig; and his sister, Judith Swig Parker. Bob was deeply loved by a large circle of family and friends. He was widely admired for his personal warmth and his ability to enhance the best qualities of his acquaintances. Bob was a devoted family man, and was noted for his generosity and his sincere friendship. Bob was president of Swig Enterprises, a financial and real estate investment firm. Previously, Bob devoted almost 20 years to the hotel business, managing his family's San Francisco Fairmont Hotel and the Fairmont Hotel Management Company nationally. Bob was deeply loved and respected in the hospitality industry. His inspiration made Mason's Restaurant one of the best in San Francisco. During a 5-year period, Bob served as the Swig family's ownership representative for the Fairmont Hotels in the capacity of Director of the Executive Committee. His knowledge of hotel operations and construction was important in his leadership in renovating many of the Fairmont Hotels. Bob was active in charitable activities, serving as vice president and director of the 49ers Foundation and the Columbia Park Boys Club. He was a great supporter of athletics and served as a coach on his daughter Sarah's winning soccer team. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests that memorial gifts be made to the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Attn. Che Kelly, 1515 Holcombe, Houston Texas 77030.
        SWIG-Robert J. The Officers and Directors of Realty Foundation of New York extend their deepest condolences to Kent, Vice President of the Foundation, and the entire Swig and Parker families on the untimely loss of Kent's brother Robert. Our prayers and heartfelt sympathy are with all of you at this most difficult time. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        SWIG-Robert J. The chairmen, officers, directors and employees of Brown Harris Stevens mourn the passing of Robert J. Swig, twin brother of Kent M. Swig, Brown Harris Stevens Co-chairman. We extend our utmost sympathies to Kent, Robert's wife, Kim, their three daughters and the entire Swig family.
      