
        GREENSTEIN-Diane (De-De) Samuels. Tragically taken on August 20, 2000. Beloved wife of Dennis, loving mother of Judd, Lael and Adra, dear daughter of the late Margie and Morris Samuels, sister of Natalie (Bill) Carroll, Ira Samuels, sister-in-law of Enid and Marvin Goldsmith, daughter-inlaw of Gabrielle and the late Joseph Greenstein. Mentor to many nieces, nephews, dear friends and colleagues. Services Wednesday, 11:45AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the Jewish National Fund, Sierra Club or a charity of your choice.
        GREENSTEIN-Diane (De-De) Samuels. Words cannot express our sorrow at the sudden and tragic loss of our cherished friend, De-De Greenstein. For the past twenty years, our families have lead paralleled but intertwined lives, as law partners, business partners, and close personal friends. In times of adversity and need, we came to rely on De-De's unerring advice, guidance, and genuine compassion. We deeply value the wonderful memories of the many ''simchas'' we shared over the years. Totally devoted to her family, De-De was a caring life partner and wife to Dennis and an exemplary role model to their three remarkable children, Judd, Lael and Adra. Our lives were enriched by her friendship, and we share in small measure the family's great loss. The Gerstein family
        GREENSTEIN-Diane (De-De) Samuels. We are devastated by the sudden and tragic loss of our dear friend De-De, beloved wife of Dennis. A woman of many talents, beautiful both inside and out, with an incomparable combination of intelligence, compassion and insight, we often sought her wise counsel. De-De could always be relied upon for her love, support and generosity. We shared so many happy times over the past 26 years and we will miss her terribly. Our hearts and prayers are with Dennis and their three adored children, Judd, Lael and Adra. There is no family we have admired more. Her memory will remain honored and treasured by us always. Senna, Allan, Erica and Laura Starr
        GREENSTEIN-Diane (De-De) Samuels. We mourn the tragic and untimely passing of De-De Greenstein, the beloved wife of our founding law partner and cherished friend, Dennis. De-De was a guiding light and pilar of strength and inspiration for Dennis and their three extraordinary children, Judd, Lael and Adra. She was a valued, personal friend to all of us in the firm, and we will miss her wisdom, compassion and judgement. May the family find comfort in the memory of her loving nature and generous spirit. Greenstein Starr Gerstein & Rinaldi LLP
        GREENSTEIN-Diane. The Board of Directors and staff of The New York Association for New Americans, Inc. (NYANA) are deeply saddened at the untimely passing of Diane Greenstein, beloved wife of Dennis Greenstein, vice president of the agency. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Dennis and the entire Greenstein family. Our thoughts and prayers are with you during this time of sorrow. Michael Loeb, President Mark Handelman, Exec. V.P.
        GREENSTEIN - Diane (De - De). Tifereth Israel-Town and Village Synagogue mourns the untimely loss of its beloved member and extends heartfelt condolences to her husband, Dennis, and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Abby Sosland, Asst Rabbi Carol J. Green, President Cantor Shayna Smith
      