
        BLOOM-Joseph J. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Joseph J. Bloom, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. Mr. Bloom shared a deep devotion to Jewish and humanitarian causes with his friend and business partner, Irwin Hochberg, former chair of UJAFederation's board of directors. A dedicated philanthropist, Mr. Bloom has left a legacy of hope for all those who have benefited from his generosity. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mr. Bloom's beloved wife, Harriet; his children, Myron and Wendy; his grandchildren, Adam, Ethan, Sara, Rachel, Amy, Debra, and Evan; and the entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        BLOOM-Joseph. With heads bowed, we mourn the passing of our good friend Joe Bloom, loving husband of Harriet, father of Myron and Wendy, loving in-laws of our Executive Committee members Irving and Phyllis Bernstein and partner of our Executive Committee member, Irwin Hochberg. Joe's dedication to Israel and Jewish values was exemplary and his friendship was a comfort to many. We express our sincere condolences to the family and his many friends, which we were privileged to be. Irving M. Rosenbaum, Chairman Irving L. Bernstein, Treasurer Irwin Hochberg, Executive Committee Eric G. Heffler, Executive VP
        BLOOM-Joseph. The American Friends of Livnot U'Lehibanot mourns the passing of Joseph Bloom and extends its heartfelt sympathy to his wife Harriet, their children Myron and Wendy and their seven grandchildren. The Bloom family and the entire Jewish community has suffered a great loss. May his memory be a blessing to us all. Irving L. Bernstein, Chairman Ira Kellman, President
        BLOOM-Joseph J. We mourn the passing of our friend, the senior and founding partner of Bloom Hochberg & Co., Joe Bloom. He has always represented the best in professional guidance as exemplified in the quality of services provided by his successors. His friendship and familial warmth will be sorely missed. Spectrum Skanska USA, Mitchell Hochberg, President
        BLOOM-Joseph. Shelter Rock Jewish Center mourns the loss of its long time member and friend. With their family Joe and Harriet represented the highest ideal of continuity in Jewish life. They saw joy from their children and their children's children. May God comfort all of them in their loss. Laurence A. Feldman, President Myron M. Fenster, Rabbi
      