
        REPETTI-Peter J. Of Short Hills and Spring Lake, NJ, a prominent New York Coorporate Attorney, died Thursday, August 24, 2000, at Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, NJ. Until his retirement Mr. Repetti was a member of the law firm Fulbright and Jaworski, formerly known as Reavis and McGrath, for over 50 years. He also served on the Board of Directors of several corporations, notably Pulitzer Publishing Company of St. Louis, Harry M. Stevens of New Jersey and Block Drug Company of Jersey City. Mr. Repetti was also a Knight of Malta. Born in New York, Mr. Repetti graduated from Westside High School in Newark, NJ, The University of Notre Dame and the Harvard Law School, where he was the Editor of the Harvard Law Review. He served in the U.S. Army during WWII. He is survived by his wife of 49 years, the former Joan Campbell, four children, Grace Mailman, Joan, Charles and Christina Long; a sister, Edith Klein; a brother, George; and many nieces and nephews. Visitation will be Sunday 2-4, 7-9 pm at Meehan Funeral Home, 555 Warren Ave, Spring Lake Heights, NJ. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Catharine's Roman Catholic Church, Spring Lake, Monday 9:30 AM. Burial St. Catharine's Cemetery. In lieu of flowers the family requests that memorial contributions be made to Turning Point Inc. Relocation Fund, P.O. Box 111, Verona, NJ 07044
        REPETTI-Peter J. The partners and associates of Fulbright & Jaworski LLP are deeply saddened by the passing of Peter J. Repetti, our esteemed former partner, colleague and friend, whose advise and counsel were often sought, willingly given and greatly appreciated. We are most thankful for the fact that his entire legal career was spent with our firm and its predecessor, Reavis & McGrath. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Joan, and his children, Grace, Joan, Charles and Christine and his family.
        REPETTI-Peter J. The Directors and Officers of Block Drug Company, Inc. mourn the loss of Peter J. Repetti, an esteemed member of our Board of Directors for the past 25 years and retired member of the New York law firm Fulbright & Jaworski, LLP. His guidance and wise counsel will long be remembered by the company. Our sincere condolences to his family. James A. Block, Chairman
      