
        SCHEFTEL-Herbert. Grandson of Ida and Isadore Straus who died on the Titanic, was known to his friends as ''Buzzie.'' Mr. Scheftal, who lived in New York City, Easthampton, Le Touquet, France, died at the age of 92 on August 16 at Mt. Sinai Hospital. He attended St. Bernard's School, St. Paul's School and received his BA/MA from Oxford University. In World War II he was a major and senior controller of the 64th Fighter Wing. For his services, he was decorated with the Bronze Star and the Croix de Guerre. Co-founder of the Pan-Am building, he was the officer and co-owner of three television stations in Connecticut, Illinois and Mexico, and six cable stations. He sold his Connecticut television station to Viacom International and became a consultant to that company. He was a past president and a current member of the Board of Directors of Greenwich House, the settlement house which services the city's underprivileged. Mr. Scheftel was a member of White's Club, London; Bucks Club, London; Knickerbocker Club, New York City; St. Cloud's, Paris; Travelers' Club, Paris; and Seminal Golf Club, Palm Beach, FL. He was a devoted husband to Yolande (formerly Fielding), cherished uncle of Susan (Richard) Finkelstein, adored great uncle to Sophie and Jesse, loving stepfather to Francoise Fielding and Cynthia Fielding-Singh and beloved grandfather of Stephanie and Kimberly Fielding and Priya and Vikram Fielding-Singh. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to St. James' Church or Greenwich House. For information on funeral arrangements, call Frank E. Campbell at 212-288-3500
        SCHEFTEL-Herbert. The Board of Directors and staff of Greenwich House mourn the passing of Herbert Scheftel, esteemed Board member and trusted friend. As Board member, president and honorary director ''Buzzie'' Scheftel has been a prominent part of Greenwich House's history and tradition as a non-profit community service organization. He was elected to the Board in 1938 and was a fervent advocate of Greenwich House's work in the community, particularly for children in need. He is remembered for his kindness, courage, generosity, dedication and leadership. Our condolences to his wife, family and friends. Roy Leavitt, Exec. Dir.
      