
        HETSKO-Josephine Stein. 89. Died Tuesday, August 8, in Allendale, NJ. Mrs. Hetsko, a native of Scranton, PA, resided in Ridgewood, NJ for over 40 years with her husband of 64 years, the late Cyril F. Hetsko. Mrs. Hetsko attended the Universities of Pennsylvania and Michigan, and graduated summa cum laude from New York University. In addition to raising four children, Mrs. Hetsko was a substitute teacher in Ridgewood Public Schools in the 1960's and 1970's. Mrs. Hetsko had a lifelong love of theater. Included among her accomplishments were producing, directing and acting in the Ridgewood High School Jamboree (she co-produced the 1960 Jamboree with her late husband) and the YWCA Cabaret. She was also a devoted member of various community theater groups including the Joe Jefferson Players, the Hillside Players (of the West Side Presbyterian Church, where Mrs. Hetsko had served as Deaconess, and had been a member since moving to Ridgewood in 1953), and numerous theater productions of the Ridgewood College Club and the Ridgewood Women's Club. Mrs. Hetsko was an energetic, and gregarious community volunteer. She was the first woman to run as a candidate for Village Commissioner in Ridgewood. She was also active for many years in Cub Scouts and Girl Scouts, and was awarded the Thanks Badge, the most prestigious adult award in Girl Scouting. Mrs. Hetsko was a member of The Explorers Club of New York City. She and her late husband frequently traveled to remote areas of the world, and lectured on their experiences in Bhutan, Tibet, China, Ladakh and Mongolia. Mrs. Hetsko is survived by two daughters, Jacqueline Kaufer of Ridgewood, NJ, and Cynthia Rainey of Lawrence, KS; two sons, Cyril M. Hetsko, M.D., of Madison, WI, and Jeffrey F. Hetsko, Esq., of Atlanta, GA; five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. A private memorial service will be held at a later date. Donations in lieu of flowers can be made to: Jamboree Scholarship Fund, c/o Betty Gregg, 15 Howard Place, Waldwick, NJ 07643.
      