
        GRUBER-Maurice, 87. Of Oakhurst, NJ died Tuesday, August 8 at Monmouth Medical Center. He was born and raised in Long Branch, NJ and until recently, maintained homes in New York City and Oakhurst. He was married to Marian Ansbacher for 43 years before her death in 1993. Mr. Gruber served as a finance officer for 5 years during World War II. He made his career as an investment banker and private investor. He served as a consultant to the Board of Directors of Georgia Pacific. He was a former member of the Board of Directors of New Jersey National Bank, now part of First Union. Mr. Gruber was a benefactor of Monmouth Medical Center, Jewish Community Center, Federation of Monmouth County, and he served on the Board of Trustees of Monmouth College. He was a member of the Ocean Beach Club, Hollywood Golf Club, and Deal Golf and Country Club. He is survived by his wife Suzanne Raffel; a sister Yetta Gilinsky; a brother Sam; a stepdaughter Lois Levy; four grandchildren Diane and Bob Baxter; Nancy and Marc Lobell; three great-grandchildren Andrew Baxter; Marshall and Marian Lobell; and numerous nieces and nephews; all of whom loved him very much. Services are being held today, 2PM, at Bloomfield-Cooper Jewish Chapels, 2130 Highway 35, Ocean, NJ. Burial will follow at Temple Beth Miriam Cemetery in Neptune, New Jersey. Memorial contributions may be made to Monmouth Medical Center Health Care Foundation, 300 2nd Avenue, Long Branch, N.J. 07740.
        GRUBER-Maurice. The Board of Trustees of Monmouth Health Care Foundation expresses its sadness at the passing of our very special benefactor of Monmouth Medical Center and extends its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends Judi Dawkins, Chairman Bridget Murphy, Director
        GRUBER-Maurice. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Mr. Maurice Gruber. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Bernard D. Karasic, President Charles Weissman, Secretary
      