
        TRUMP-Mary A. Wife of the late Fred C. Trump. Mother of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump Jr. Mother-in-law of Blaine Trump and James Grau. Grandmother of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Trump Jr., Christopher Trump, Ivanka Trump, Eric Trump and Tiffany Trump. Great-grandmother of Andrea Trump, Christopher Trump, William Trump, and Robert Desmond. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday 7-9 PM and Thursday 3-5 and 7-9 PM. Services at Marble Collegiate Church, 5th Avenue at 29th Street, on Friday, at 11 AM. Interment is private. Contributions in memory of Mary A. Trump may be made to the Trump Pavilion at Jamaica Hospital, 90-28 Van Wyck Expressway, Jamaica, New York 11418 or the Long Island Jewish Medical Center, 270-05 76th Avenue, New Hyde Park, New York 11040.
        TRUMP-Mary. The Board of Directors of The Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York notes with great saddness the passing of Mary Trump, mother of Board of Governors Members Donald J. Trump and Robert Trump. Mary was a gracious and charming lady who as a caring philanthropist improved the lives of so many New Yorkers. Her selfless dedication will be missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her children Donald, Robert, Maryanne Barry and Elizabeth Grau, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. To have known Mary was to have loved her. We shall truly miss her. Jerome Belson, President Michael Kerr, Co-Chairman Arnold Sollar, Co-Chairman Nicholas LaPorte Jr, Exec Dir
        TRUMP-Mary. The staff of The Trump Organization is deeply saddened by the passing of Mary Trump, mother of Donald J. Trump, our President. She was a wonderful, warm, compassionate woman who was loved not only by the members of her family, but by all who knew her. She will be greatly missed. We also extend heartfelt sympathy to her daughters, Maryanne and Elizabeth, her son, Robert, her eight grandchildren and her four great-grandchildren. Her spirit lives on in all of them.
        TRUMP-Mary. Mary and Fred and their children were close friends of Belle and Bunny for over 50 years. Our families' friendship has spanned several generations. All of the Lindenbaums have benefitted from Mary's loyalty, devotion, warmth, compassion and wonderful sense of humor, all of which made her a true matriarch. We have very fond memories of her and she will be dearly missed. Belle, Sandy and Linda Lindenbaum
        TRUMP-Mary. A very special person whose friendship and encouragement was an inspiration to me and to all those who were fortunate to know her and benefit from her wise and devoted counsel. In every family there is someone who inspires, leads and is steadfast in her compassion and love. Mary Trump was one of those rare spirits. To her family, heartfelt sympathy. Louise M. Sunshine
        TRUMP-Mary A. The management and staff of Spectrum Skanska, Inc. offers our heartfelt condolences to Donald J. Trump and his family on the passing of his mother, Mary. May her memory comfort and inspire you during this difficult time. Spectrum Skanska, Inc.
        TRUMP-Mary A. On behalf of my entire organization, I wish to express my heartfelt sympathy and condolences to the entire Trump family on the death of their beloved mother/grandmother, Mary. May her memory be a blessing. William G. Cohen Newmark & Co. Real Estate, Inc.
        TRUMP-Mary A. The Partners and Staff of M.R. Weiser & Co., LLP mourn the passing of Mary A. Trump. We wish to extend our heartfelt condolences and sympathy to her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren.
        TRUMP-Mary A. Your warmth, kindness and love will be missed, but never forgotten. Rest in peace. With much love, Richard Levy
      