
        GRAD-Bernard John. On August 4, 2000, in Elberon, New Jersey, in his 92nd year. Much beloved husband of the late Marian Newfield Grad, loving and caring father of Peter Grad and Susan Grad Baerwald of Los Angeles, and their spouses, Laurie Burrows Grad and Paul Baerwald. Adoring Pop of Nick, Josh and Sam. Predeceased by his cherished brother, Howard. The family wishes to express deep gratitude to our friend and devoted caretaker Joan Charles. Bernie was a skilled and respected architect for over 50 years, heading one of New Jersey's most prestigious firms, The Grad Partnership, with his brother Howard and his father Frank Grad. A graduate of Newark Academy in 1927, he studied at Ecole des Beaux Arts in Fountainbleu, France, and graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1932. A fellow of the American Institute of Architects, Bernie received an honorary Doctoral Degree from the New Jersey Institute of Technology, where he also served as a member of the Board of Overseers. He was chairman of the Advisory Commission for a Publicly Supported College of Architecture in the State of New Jersey and a Director of the Howard Savings Bank, the Newark Chamber of Commerce and The Newark Boys' Club. He wrote a book entitled ''Adventure into Architecture,'' which was published in 1968. Among his architectural achievements were the New Jersey Cultural Center, the New Jersey Justice Complex, Meadowlands Byrne Arena, college buildings for Rutgers, New Jersey Institute of Technology, Monmouth University, and corporate offices for Prudential, Mercedes Benz, Nabisco, IBM, New York Life and New Jersey Bell, as well as many office buildings, prisons and military facilities in the United States and abroad. Benrnie was a feisty, outspoken guy who gave his friends and co-workers great pleasure and received many rewards from them in return. He cherished, amused and enriched his family with his life lessons, his love and his stories. He will be greatly missed by all of us. Services at Temple Beth Miriam in Elberon, New Jersey, on Monday, August 7, at 10 AM.
        GRAD-Bernard J. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Mr. Bernard J. Grad. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Bernard D. Karasic, President Charles Weissman, Secretary
      