
        TRUMP-Mary A. Wife of the late Fred C. Trump. Mother of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump Jr. Mother-in-law of Blaine Trump and James Grau. Grandmother of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Trump Jr., Christopher Trump, Ivanka Trump, Eric Trump and Tiffany Trump. Great-grandmother of Andrea Trump, Christopher Trump and Robert Desmond. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday 7-9 PM and Thursday 3-5 and 7-9 PM. Services at Marble Collegiate Church, 5th Avenue at 29th Street, on Friday, at 11 AM. Interment is private. Contributions in memory of Mary A. Trump may be made to the Trump Pavilion at Jamaica Hospital, 90-28 Van Wyck Expressway, Jamaica, New York 11418 or the Long Island Jewish Medical Center, 270-05 76th Avenue, New Hyde Park, New York 11040.
        TRUMP-Mary. Throughout the triumphs and tragedies of the Trumps, Mary Trump remained a pillar of strength, dignity and class. Although I am nothing more than a humble plumber, Mrs. Trump honored me by joining me for numerous lunches in the city with Donald, Maryanne, Elizabeth, Jim, Aurora and my Mom attending many of them. Her wit, her charm and her many risque jokes are memories I will cherish for a lifetime. My heartfelt condolences go to the entire Trump family. Lawrence Roman
        TRUMP-Mary A. The staff of Trump Management, Inc. express their deep sorrow at the passing of Mary A. Trump, beloved wife of 63 years of our recently departed founder, Fred C. Trump, and beloved mother of Maryanne, Elizabeth, Donald, Robert and the late Fred, Jr. Her life of selfless dedication to her family and friends will keep her memory immortal. Though our words can do little to comfort you, we hope our thoughts and prayers will help support you at this time.
        TRUMP-Mary A. To Maryanne, Elizabeth, Donald and Robert. In your sorrow, may each kindness, each word, each memory be a gentle comfort. Remember that all your mother's best qualities live on in each of you-yours to treasure and share through all the years to come. With heartfelt sympathy from the staff of Apartment Management Associates, Inc.
        TRUMP-Mary A. The Partners and Staff of M.R. Weiser & Co., LLP mourn the passing of Mary A. Trump. We wish to extend our heartfelt condolences and sympathy to her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren.
      