
        TRUMP-Mary A. Wife of the late Fred C. Trump. Mother of Maryanne Trump Barry, Elizabeth Trump Grau, Donald J. Trump, Robert S. Trump and the late Fred C. Trump Jr. Mother-in-law of Blaine Trump and James Grau. Grandmother of Dr. David W. Desmond, Fred C. Trump III, Mary Trump, Donald J. Trump Jr., Christopher Trump, Ivanka Trump, Eric Trump and Tiffany Trump. Great-grandmother of Andrea Trump, Christopher Trump and Robert Desmond. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday 7-9 PM and Thursday 3-5 and 7-9 PM. Services at Marble Collegiate Church, 5th Avenue at 29th Street, on Friday, at 11 AM. Interment is private. Contributions in memory of Mary A. Trump may be made to the Trump Pavilion at Jamaica Hospital, 90-28 Van Wyck Expressway, Jamaica, New York 11418 or the Long Island Jewish Medical Center, 270-05 76th Avenue, New Hyde Park, New York 11040.
        TRUMP-Mary. The Board of Directors of The Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York notes with great saddness the passing of Mary Trump, mother of Board of Governors Members Donald J. Trump and Robert Trump. Mary was a gracious and charming lady who as a caring philanthropist improved the lives of so many New Yorkers. Her selfless dedication will be missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her children Donald, Robert, Maryanne, Barry and Elizabeth Grau, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. To have known Mary was to have loved her. We shall truly miss her. Jerome Belson, President Michael Kerr, Co-Chairman Arnold Sollar, Co-Chairman Nicholas LaPorte Jr, Exec Dir
        TRUMP-Mary A. The Board of Trustees and the employees of Jamaica Hospital Medical Center and Trump Pavilion for Nursing and Rehabilitation mourn the passing of our longtime friend and staunch supporter, Mary Trump. Mary served as Chairman of our first Dinner Dance, starting an annual tradition that has raised millions of dollars for the hospital over the years. She also laid the cornerstone of the Trump Pavilion, named in honor of the Trump family. Her many acts of generosity and kindness were done without fanfair. She will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to the Trump family. David P. Rosen, President & CEO Ann B. Dufficy, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        TRUMP-Mary MacLeod. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York regret the passing of Mary MacLeod Trump, a noted philanthropist and beloved mother of Donald Trump. Mr. Trump, a friend and generous supporter of UJA-Federation, was recently named Hotel and Real Estate Visionary of the Century by our Hotel Group. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mr. Trump; Mrs. Trump's son, Robert; her daghters, Maryanne and Elizabeth; her 8 grandchildren; and her four great-grandchildren. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        TRUMP-Mary A. The staff of Trump Management, Inc. express their deep sorrow at the passing of Mary A. Trump, beloved wife of 63 years of our recently departed founder, Fred C. Trump, and beloved mother of Maryanne, Elizabeth, Donald, Robert and the late Fred, Jr. Her life of selfless dedication to her family and friends will keep her memory immortal. Though our words can do little to comfort you, we hope our thoughts and prayers will help support you at this time.
        TRUMP-Mary. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America extend their deepest sympathy to our Trustee, Donald J. Trump, on the loss of his beloved mother. She shared her husband's devotion to the Scouts of Queens and all of New York City. Our thoughts and prayers go to Mr. Trump and the entire Trump family. John F. McGillicuddy, President Daniel R. Gasparo, Scout Executive
        TRUMP-Mary. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board and member of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City acknowledge the passing of a devoted and generous friend. Mary was a staunch supporter of the needs of children and adults with Cerebral Palsy-and their families for many years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Trump family. Leo Hausman, Chairman Martin Hausman, President Edward Matthews, Exec Director
        TRUMP-Mary A. The Board of Directors, staff, and volunteers of God's Love We Deliver are saddened by the loss of Mary A. Trump, beloved mother of our dear friend Robert Trump and mother-in-law of Blaine Trump, Vice Chair of our Board. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire Trump family and hope that cherished memories of their mother will comfort them during this sad and difficult time.
        TRUMP-Mary. A very special person whose friendship and encouragement was an inspiration to me and to all those who were fortunate to know her and benefit from her wise and devoted counsel. In every family there is someone who inspires, leads and is steadfast in her compassion and love. Mary Trump was one of those rare spirits. I will miss her. Louise M. Sunshine
        TRUMP-Mary A. To Maryanne, Elizabeth, Donald and Robert. In your sorrow, may each kindness, each word, each memory be a gentle comfort. Remember that all your mother's best qualities live on in each of you-yours to treasure and share through all the years to come. With heartfelt sympathy from the staff of Apartment Management Associates, Inc.
        TRUMP-Mary. Costas Kondylis and the entire staff of Costas Kondylis & Associates PC, Architects, extend their deepest sympathy on the loss of Mary Trump, beloved mother of Donald Trump. Condolences and heartfelt sympathy are extended to the entire Trump family. Costas Kondylis
        TRUMP-Mary A. The Board of Directors and Staff of United Cerebral Palsy of Queens, extends its deepest sympathies to the family of Mary A. Trump, a true friend and humanitarian whose generosity affected the quality of life of people with developmental disabilities.
        TRUMP-Mary A. On behalf of my entire organization, I wish to express my heartfelt sympathy and condolences to the entire Trump family on the death of their beloved mother/grandmother, Mary. May her memory be a blessing. William G. Cohen Newmark & Co. Real Estate, Inc.
        TRUMP-Mary A. The Lorber family extends its condolences to our dear friend, Donald J. Trump and his family on the passing of his beloved mother. Our thoughts are with you. Howard M. Lorber
        TRUMP-Mary A. To the Trump family, our heartfelt sympathy and condolences on the passing of Mary A. Trump. Our thoughts are with you. The management and staff of Tishman Real Estate Services
        TRUMP-Mary A. The Partners and Staff of M.R. Weiser & Co., LLP mourn the passing of Mary A. Trump. We wish to extend our heartfelt condolences and sympathy to her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren.
        TRUMP-Mary A. T Management would like to extend our deepest sympathies and condolences to Donald Trump and family at this time.
        TRUMP-Mary. To my dearest friend Mary, life will never be the same without you. Love Ruth Pette
        TRUMP-Mary A. Your warmth, kindness and love will be missed, but never forgotten. Rest in peace. With much love, Richard Levy
      