
        SACHDEV-Ved, MD. An internationally renowned professor and practitioner of neurosurgery and neuroanatomy passed away peacefully on August 8, 2000 at Mt. Sinai Hospital in New York City where he worked and taught for thirty years. Dr. Sachdev dedicated his life to the healing of others with skill and profound kindness. He was 68 years old. Having survived the partition of India and Pakistan which resulted in exile from his birthplace and family home and loss of his eldest sister Dr. Sachdev went on to study Medicine at Amristar Medical College of the University of Punjab. He then served as a Surgeon Lieutenant for the Indian Navy after which time he completed residencies in both Otolaryngology and Neurosurgergy in both India and England. Dr. Sachdev also earned the title of Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons from England in 1963 after which time he came to the United States at the age of 39 and completed an additional neurosurgical residency at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. Dr. Sachdev quickly rose to a senior position in the Neurosurgery Department at Mt. Sinai where he acquired a reputation for both professional excellence and benevolence. During the course of thirty years practicing neurosurgery in Manhattan, he was named one of the ''Best Doctors in New York'' and one of the ''Best Doctors in America'' by New York Magazine for many years. Dr. Sachdev's legacy survives in all the students and residents he mentored at the Mt. Sinai School of Mediccine, including his two daughters, Ulka and Rivka. Despite a busy private practice, Dr. Sachdev cherished all opportunities to teach his residents and medical students, earning him a Best Teacher and Mentor Award by the neurosurgical residents at Mt. Sinai Hospital in 1992-1993. He approached education with an impressive fund of knowledge and, most notably, a sense of humor and charisma. From an early age, Dr. Sachdev had a star quality. In his earlier years of practicing medicine in India, Dr. Sachdev was the director of the Dramatic Club at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh, India. He was known for his powerful public presence and easily captured people's attention. Dr. Sachdev was sincerely loved by all of those whose lives he touched. He is survived by his beloved wife Ranjit; his daughters, Rivka and Ulka; and his son-in-law, Michael. He is also survived by his brothers Dr. Krishan Sachdev and Dr. Janak Sachdev and by his sister, Mrs. Prem Parkash. Dr. Sachdev's beloved youngest sister, Vinod Nayar, is deceased. A visitation will be held on August 10, 2000 at the Edwin L. Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Avenue, Scarsdale, NY (914-725-1137). Funeral services will be held at the same location at 10:30 a.m. on August 11, 2000. A fund is being established for a lecture series in Dr. Sachdev's name through the Neurosurgery Department at Mt. Sinai Hospital.
        SACHDEV-Ved P., M.D. The members of the Department of Neurosurgery of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Ved Prakash Sachdev, who passed away on August 8, 2000 at Mount Sinai Hospital after a short illness. Dr. Sachdev, who was trained in both Neurosurgery and ENT, came to Mount Sinai Medical Center in 1970 after receiving his initial training in India and England. He began his training under Dr. Sidney Gross, and subsequently was associated with Dr. Leonard Malis. Dr. Sachdev was internationally recognized for his clinical skills in microneurosurgery, and published numerous papers on this subject. As Vice Chairman under Dr. Malis, he was instrumental in training an entire generation of neurosurgeons at Mount Sinai. He was an outstanding teacher, an excellent and compassionate physician much loved by residents and patients. His love of teaching neuroanatomy was shown by his commitment to teaching Neurobiology to the preclinical medical students at Mount Sinai Medical School. Our deepest condolences are exstended to his family, his wife, Rani, and his daughters, Ulka and Rifka. Ulka is currently a surgical resident at Mount Sinai, and Rifka is joining this year as a freshman medical student. His colleagues and friends will greatly miss his gentle humor and wisdom. A ''Ved P. Sachdev, M.D.'' Neurosurgery Lectureship has been established to honor Dr. Sachdev. Mount Sinai School of Medicine Department of Neurosurgery Kalmon D. Post, M.D., Chairman
        SACHDEV-Ved P., M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and distinguished colleague, Ved Prakash Sachdev, M.D., Clinical Professor of Neurosurgery who was associated with Mount Sinai for 30 years. After receiving his training in India and England in Neurosurgery and Otolaryngology, Dr. Sachdev joined Mount Sinai as a resident in 1970 and subsequently held several positions including Vice Chairman of Neurosurgery. Dr. Sachdev was a recognized international authority on microneurosurgery and was published extensively during his career. Greatly admired as both teacher and clinician for his exceptional dedication to students and patients, he will be remembered most fondly, and he will be sorely missed. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife, Ranjit, his two daughters, Ulka and Rifka, and the entire family. Helene L. Kaplan, Chair, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chair, Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh., Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine John W. Rowe, MD, President Mount Sinai NYU Health Barry R. Freedman, President The Mount Sinai Hospital
        SACHDEV-Ved, M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. A member of the Mount Sinai family since 1970, Dr. Sachdev was admired and respected by his colleagues and patients but above all, earned a special affection by his profound humanity, generosity, warm smile and gentle humor. A devoted teacher and supportive mentor, he represented the best tradition of the Medical Center, exemplified by his dedication to teaching and commitment to clinical excellence. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, M.D., Treasurer
      