
        BREGMAN-Walter Ward. Of Roslyn, New York, on August 16, 2000. Devoted son of the late Louis I. and Bella (Breakstone) Bregman. Dear & loving husband of Miriam, cherished father of Judy, Jo Ann and Paul. Beloved father-in-law of Mark Welch, Jack Miles & Susan (Cassel) Bregman, dear brother of Marvin and the late Oscar, adored grandfather of Julie, Lindsay, Emily, Rebecca, Jake, Seth, Sarah and Alexander. After a long and valiant battle with cancer, he died at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. Always a leader, his dedication to his family and community was a model for all. Walter was a founding member of Temple Sinai. As its past vice president and chairman of its building committee, he was responsible for its many expansions. He also served as past president and chairman of the board of the Samuel Field YM&YWHA and as past president of the Old Westbury Country Club. His tireless efforts and charitable contributions in community service benefited countless others. A Lt. Colonel in the Army Corps of Engineers, he served in the Pacific arena during World War II. We mourn the loss of this much loved & generous man. Funeral services Friday, August 18, 12 o'clock PM, at Temple Sinai, 425 Roslyn Road, Roslyn Heights, New York. Interment is at New Montefiore Cemetery follows. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Samuel Field YM & YWHA, Little Neck, New York.
        BREGMAN-Walter. The Board of Directors and staff of the Samuel Field/Bay Terrace YM-YWHA mourn the loss of our esteemed board member and past president, Walter Bregman. He was an individual of great wisdom and generosity. His concern for the well being of others and his commitment to the work of our organization were extraordinary. He guided the Y through an unprecedented period of growth and expansion and his legacy will endure. We will profoundly miss his leadership and vision, but most of all, we will miss his gentle, loving way and quiet strength. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Miriam, his children Paul, Judy and Jo Ann and his entire family. William Frumkin, President Dr. Steven Goodman, Executive Vice President
        BREGMAN-Walter Ward. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished and devoted member Walter Ward Bregman. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved wife, Miriam and their entire family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn, Friday at 12:00 Noon Rabbi Michael White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Michael J. Paul, President
        BREGMAN-Walter. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member, Walter Bregman, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Midge, children, Paul, Judy and JoAnn and their families. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Barry Swidler, President Herbert Selzer, Secretary
      