
        MERRITT-Vernon III, a photojournalist for Life magazine, died on August 17 from an accident at his home in Old Lyme, CT, age 59. Merritt's coverage of the civil rights movement and the early days of the Viet Nam war represent an important-and lastingcontribution to American photography. Merritt, who was from Montgomery, AL, studied journalism at the University of Alabama and graduated from Art Center School in Los Angeles. He returned to the South in 1963. He was among the first to document voter registration drives and Birmingham's segregation protests. His pictures appeared in Newsweek, the Saturday Evening Post, and Life. When Tuskegee schools were ordered to integrate, he joined black students on their first day at their new school. The bus carrying them was waylaid by a white mob, including the local sheriff. Merritt was taken from the bus, beaten, threatened with lynching and jailed. Merritt was one of the first journalists drawn to the war in Viet Nam. He went as a free-lance, his photographs handled by the agency Black Star. In 1965, he was wounded by sniper fire, an injury that left him partially paralyzed for some months. When he recovered and was able to work again, Life magazine hired him as a staff photographer. He remained with the magazine until it ceased publication in 1972. At Life, his work encompassed the breadth of American life-the uninhibited lifestyle of the '60s, the capture of Charles Manson, the home life of the astronauts, an epic essay on the trumpeter swan, the American farmer, and one of his personal favorites-a pampered pig on a pillowy couch. He was an adventurous sailor, a member of the Cruising Club of America, who had recently sailed his sloop Talisman, to Greenland. He is survived by his wife, Linda Stanley of Old Lyme, CT and three children, Kimberley Salido of San Gabriel, CA, Vernon (Kip) Merritt IV of Highland Lakes, NJ, and Blaine Caravaggi of NY, NY. A memorial service will be held Saturday, September 9 at the First Congregational Church of Old Lyme, 2 Ferry Road, at 12:30 PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to the Southern Poverty Law Center, 400 Washington Ave, Montgomery, AL 36104.
      