
        LUNTEY-Beverly Weber. Died August 14, 2000. She was born and grew up in Spokane, Washington. She graduated from the University of Idaho with a degree in Journalism and worked as a reporter for the Spokane Chronicle. She also took graduate work at Northwestern University and wrote a weekly column for the Spokane Chronicle for 20 years. She and her husband moved to New York in 1948. For many years, Beverly was Social Secretary for Mrs. William S. (Babe) Paley. Later, she filled the same responsibilities for Mrs. Fosberg, another of the famous Cushing sisters. Beverly has been active in the community, serving as President of the North Shore Branch of the American Association of University Women, member of the Sands Point Garden Club, the Plandome Women's Club, and an Elder of the Roslyn Presbyterian Church. She was an active participant in Womens Golf at the Sands Point Golf Club. She served on the Board of Helen Keller Services for the Blind and was Co-chairman of the Operating Committee. She was on the Board of the Unversity of Idaho Foundation. She participated for many years on the Student Loan Committee for Port Washington. She has been a member of the Shelter Island Yacht Club, the Gardiner's Bay Country Club and the Shelter Island Union Chapel for nearly 20 years. She was also a member of the Fiscal Advisory Committee for the Village Club of Sands Point. She is survived by her husband, Eugene H. Luntey, and her son Kirk of Ardmore, PA. The funeral service will be private with a memorial service planned for September. She wanted and had her flowers in her lifetime. Donations in her honor can be made to the Beverly and Eugene Luntey Scholarship Fund, Office of the President, LIU, 700 Northern Boulevard, Brookville, N.Y. 11548.
        LUNTEY-Beverly Weber. The Long Island University community mourns the death of Beverly Luntey, an extraordinary woman and supportive wife of the former chairman of its Board of Trustees. The Eugene and Beverly Luntey Commons on the Brooklyn Campus and scholarships in their names bear eloquent testimony to a partnership to which she brought indomitable spirit, endless warmth, and great passion for this university and all higher learning. Roger Tilles, Chair David Steinberg, President
        LUNTEY-Beverly. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Helen Keller Services for the Blind mourn the passing of Beverly Luntey, who served as a member of the Board for 23 years. Her dedication to this organization and her compassion for the blind, deaf-blind and visually impaired clients will be deeply missed. Fred W. McPhilliamy, President
      