
        SAMIY-Abdol Hossein, M.D. On August 9, 2000. Beloved husband of Shahla. Loving father of Ahmad Ali and Golnaz Samiy. He is also survived by the Samiy and Khosrowshahi families. Service on Saturday, August 12, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations can be made to CAPCure Association for the Cure of Prostate Cancer, 1250 4th Street, Suite 360, Santa Monica, CA., 90401. Contact Jan Haber at 310-458-2873.
        SAMIY-Abdol H., M.D. The Department of Psychiatry, Weill Cornell Medical College, New YorkPresbyterian Hospital, notes with sorrow the passing on August 9 of Dr. Abdol Samiy, Professor of Clinical Medicine. Esteemed colleague and trusted physician, Dr. Samiy developed and led medical services at the Westchester Division for the past 20 years. A graduate of Cornell University Medical College, he completed residency and fellowship training at The New York Hospital, Cornell Medical Center, and Peter Bent Brigham Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital at Harvard Medical School. During the 1970s, Dr. Samiy was Dean of the School of Medicine and President of the Imperial Medical Center of Iran, Department Minister, Ministry of Health, and Minister, Ministry of Science and Higher Education. He served on several World Health Organization advisory committees and was a member of the International Society of Nephrology, the New York Academy of Sciences, the New York Academy of Medicine, and the Harvey Society. His clinical skills and acumen were valued by faculty, staff and patients who extend their heartfelt condolences to Dr. Samiy's wife Shahla and his children Ali and Goli. A memorial service will be held at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Saturday, August 12, 2000, at 11:30 A.M. The family requests that memorial contributions be made to CAPCure Association for the Cure of Prostate Cancer, 1250 Fourth Street, Suite 360, Santa Monica, CA. 90401. Jack D. Barchas, M.D., Psychiatrist-in-Chief William A. Frosch, M.D., Vice Chairman Otto F. Kernberg, M.D., Former Medical Director Robert Michels, M.D., Former Psychiatrist-in-Chief Virginia L. Susman, M.D., Associate Medical Director Philip J. Wilner, M.D., Medical Director
      