
        EYLES-David, 60. Retired vice chairman and chief credit officer of FleetBoston Financial Corp., died unexpectedly at his home in South Carolina on Monday, August 14th. Mr. Eyles began his banking career in 1961 when he joined Chemical Banking Corporation in New York City. In his 27-year career there, he rose to the position of Executive Vice President, Chief Credit Officer and Chairman of the Credit Policy Committee. In 1988 he joined Mellon Bank Corporation in Pittsburgh as Vice Chairman, member of the office of the chairman and chairman of the credit policy committee. In 1992 he joined Shawmut National Corporation as Vice Chairman, Chief Credit Policy Officer and a member of the senior policy committee. He joined Fleet in 1995, following its merger with Shawmut, where he served as Vice Chairman and Chief Credit Officer until his retirement last June. Mr. Eyles has long been active in Robert Morris Associates, the trade association for credit and risk professionals. Mr. Eyles served on the Board of Directors of the RMA for three terms. He was also Chairman of the Regulatory Relations and Communications Council at the time of his death. Mr. Eyles was instrumental in creating credit and risk guidelines that have become industry standards. Mr. Eyles was a graduate of the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania, with a bachelor's degree in economics, and of the Harvard Business School's Advanced Management Program. Mr. Eyles was born in Redbank, New Jersey, and raised in Kingston, New York. His parents were Irving L. Eyles and Madelyn Gilbert Eyles. Mr. Eyles most recently lived in West Hartford, Connecticut, and DeBordieu, South Carolina. Mr. Eyles is survived by his wife of 39 years, Dagnija; his sister Eileen Hoffman of Kingston, New York; four children; Denise Daley of Fairfield, Connecticut; Lisa Beeson of Greenwich, Connecticut; Matthew Eyles of Indianapolis, Indiana; Christina Eyles of Washington, DC; and five grandchildren. Services for Mr. Eyles will be held at 1:00 P.M. on Friday, August 18th, at Trinity Episcopal Church, 120 Sigourney Street, Hartford, CT. Contributions in memory of Mr. Eyles may be made to the Children's Heart Fund, Children's Hospital, 300 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA. 02115.
      