
        SWIG-Robert Jeffrey. Born in San Francisco on January 20, 1961, Robert J. Swig peacefully passed away in the early morning hours of August 19, 2000 at his Hillsborough home after a short illness. He leaves behind his wife of ten years, Kim Baldwin Swig; their three beautiful daughters, Sarah, Leah, and Rebecca; his twin brother, Kent; his brother, Steven; and his brother-in-law, Ted Parker. He was preceded in passing by his father, Melvin M. Swig; his mother, Marcia Hove Swig; his grandmother and grandfather, Mae and Benjamin Swig; and his sister, Judith Swig Parker. Bob was deeply loved by a large circle of family and friends. He was widely admired for his personal warmth and his ability to enhance the best qualities of his acquaintances. Bob was a devoted family man, and was noted for his generosity and his sincere friendship. Bob was president of Swig Enterprises, a financial and real estate investment firm. Previously, Bob devoted almost 20 years to the hotel business, managing his family's San Francisco Fairmont Hotel and the Fairmont Hotel Management Company nationally. Bob was deeply loved and respected in the hospitality industry. His inspiration made Mason's Restaurant one of the best in San Francisco. During a 5-year period, Bob served as the Swig family's ownership representative for the Fairmont Hotels in the capacity of Director of the Executive Committee. His knowledge of hotel operations and construction was important in his leadership in renovating many of the Fairmont Hotels. Bob was active in charitable activities, serving as vice president and director of the 49ers Foundation and the Columbia Park Boys Club. He was a great supporter of athletics and served as a coach on his daughter Sarah's winning soccer team. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests that memorial gifts be made to the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 15125 Holcombe, Houston Texas 77030.
        SWIG-Robert. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the untimely passing in San Francisco of the brother of Kent M. Swig, Campaign Chairman of its Real Estate and Construction Division. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Kent and to Robert's wife Kim and their three children. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gideon Patt, President and CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg, National Campaign Chairman Howard Hirsch, Chairman Metropolitan New York Campaign Daniel R. Tishman, Chairman Real Estate and Construction Division
      