
        SELIGMAN-Peter. We mourn with profound sorrow the tragic and untimely loss of our beloved Partner, colleague and friend. Peter was a gifted and deeply committed professional whose outstanding skills and brilliant instincts served his clients with unparalleled excellence. Peter's extraordinary generosity and support, uncommon decency and superb sense of humor are irreplaceable. We have lost a wonderful friend and the public relations industry, a shining star. Our deepest condolences go to his adored fiance, Sara Sinek and the entire Seligman family. May his memory serve as a blessing. Dan Klores Associates, Inc.
        SELIGMAN-Peter. To Bob, Bonnie, Suzanne, Stephanie and Sylvia, the Seligman, Konigsberg and Sinek families, the shock of losing our nephew and cousin Peter can only be softened by all the wonderful memories we have of him. He was a very special person and we will miss him dearly. Paul, Judy, Stephen, Jeffrey, Matthew, Allison
        SELIGMAN-Peter. The Scholastic family mourns the passing of Peter Seligman, the fiance of our beloved colleague, Sara Sinek. Our deepest condolences to her and the Seligman family. Dick Robinson, Judy Corman and the Staff of Scholastic, Inc.
        SELIGMAN-Peter. With deep regret and sadness we learned of the death of our friend and colleague, Peter Seligman. Our prayers go out to him, his family and fiancee. He was a wonderful man who will truly be missed. Jay and Mavis Leno
        SELIGMAN-Peter. Your untimely death has left a void in our lives. Our hearts and our love go to our beloved friends, Bonnie, Bob the rest of your family and fiancee. Eve, Steven, Alana and Jared Yavers
        SELIGMAN-Peter. Our heartfelt sympathy to Sara, Bonnie and Bob, and to all the rest of Peter's loved ones and friends. His memory will endure in all of our hearts. Lil and Joe Shapiro Ken and Patricia Shapiro
        SELIGMAN-Peter. The Board of Directors of 870 5th Avenue Corp. note with sorrow the untimely tragic passing of the son of our esteemed member. Martin Axman & Harvey Sliff
        SELIGMAN-Peter. Brother Peter, Uncle Petie. While a part of us has been taken away too soon, we will carry your memory in our hearts and our lives every day. Love, Kim, Mike and Jamie
      