
        BERNARD-Burton. Consummate husband of 58 years to his devoted wife, Norma. Beloved father of Harold, Cathy and Mitchell. Loving father-in-law of Bonnie and Adrienne. Cherished grandfather of Nicole, Molly, Alex, Bradley, Jake, Amanda and Hannah. He was a unique and wonderful man, loved by all who had the good fortune to know him. We will miss him forever. Services Wednesday, 11:00 AM, at Temple Emanuel, 150 Hicks Lane, Great Neck.
        BERNARD-Burton. The officers, members of the board and congregation of Temple Emanuel of Great Neck, mourn the passing of Burton Bernard, past president, who served this synagogue for 45 years, almost from its inception. Generous and thoughtful, he offered his wise counsel in all of those matters that helped to upgrade the work of the synagogue. He spoke his own mind without sham or pretense. A man of great integrity, he faced challenge with the dignity of a patriarch and was co-partnered through it all by his beloved Norma. His loving children and grandchildren were the light of his eyes. It is they, the larger family and friends, who will always remember him as a caring influence in their lives. May his memory be a benediction. Dr. Robert S. Widom, Rabbi Sandor C. Schweiger, Co-President Mandell Dalis, Co-President Temple Emanuel of Great Neck
        BERNARD-Burton. After a very lengthly and heroic battle, our dear and highly respected friend for 50 years is gone -but never will be forgotten. Love to Norma, Harold, Mitchell and Kathy. Annette and Dave
        BERNARD-Burton. A true gentleman with uncommon wisdom. His biography will serve as an inspiration for everyone. Condolences to Norma and to Harold, Cathy and Mitchell and their families. Fred Saffer
        BERNARD-Burton. We will always cherish fond memories of Burt who left his footprints on our hearts. Our thoughts are with his devoted Norma and his family. Lynn and Manny
        BERNARD-Burton. A cherished friend who will be in our memory always. A man for all seasons. Irving and Muriel Gerstein
        BERNARD-Burton. We will both miss a great man, a partner and close friend more than 50 years. Al and Hilda Reiss
      