
        SISCHY-Benjamin, MD. Beloved and gifted physician died in Sarasota, Florida on September 23, 2000 at the age of 82. He was born in South Africa in 1918. He practiced medicine there and also subsquently in Edinburgh and London in the UK before emigrating to the USA in 1967. In Rochester, NY, he established the department of Radiation Oncology at the Highland Hospital where he remained as Chief until his retirement in 1990. In recognition of his research and contribution to the advancement of cancer treatment, he was appointed Clinical Professor of Radiation Oncology at the University of Rochester and upon his retirement, was named Professor Emeritus. A widely published author of papers and texts in his field, Ben Sischy was also a dedicated healer whose first consideration was always the well-being of this patients. They, in return, both loved and respected him. As a lasting testimonial to this extraordinary human being, an endowed fund was established in the early 1990s which supports the Ben Sischy, MD Visiting Scholor in Humane Medicine. His years of retirement in Sarasota, since 1990, have been devoted to community work. Included amongst the offices he has held he served as President of the American Jewish Committee and membership of the Board of the Jewish Federation, the Jewish Housing Council, and the Center for Catholic Jewish Studies. He was an active congregant of Temple Beth Israel where he was a Board member and sat on many committees. Survivors include his most beloved wife of 56 years, Claire; his sons, Mark of Edinburgh, Scotland and David of Rochester, NY; his daughter Ingrid of New York City; his daughtersin-law Judith and Linda; his grandchildren, Deborah, Adam, and Ilana, and his sister, Clarice, of London, England. Funeral Services will be held on Wednesday at 3:00 P.M. at Temple Beth Israel, Longboat Key, FL, followed by interment in Palms Memorial Park in Sarasota. Donations may be made to the Ben Sischy, MD Visiting Scholar in Humane Medicine C/O Dr. Richard Frankel, Primary Care Institute, Highland Hospital, 1000 South Avenue, Rochester, NY 14620 or alternately to a charity of one's choice. For information call, Toale Brothers Funeral Home, Colonial Chapel, 941 955-4171.
      