
        GORDON-Edward. To our beloved Dad and Papa: we will always love you. You gave us so many special memories that will last in our hearts forever. Robin, Steve, Jennifer, Jeremy, Emily and Brianna Apple
        GORDON-Edward S. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of an outstanding leader of its Real Estate and Construction Division and a devoted friend and supporter of the State of Israel. Widely esteemed throughout the real estate industry, he served with great distinction as a Vice Chairman of the Division and was a Campaign Chairman and guest of honor at its Tribute Luncheon. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Cheryl, his children Robin and Kenneth, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gideon Patt, President and CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg, National Campaign Chairman Howard Hirsch, Chairman Metropolitan New York Region Peter S. Kalikow, Chairman Corporate & Professional Division Daniel R. Tishman Chairman, Real Estate & Construction Division
        GORDON-Edward S. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow at the passing of Edward S. Gordon, and to extend our deepest condolences to his family. He left an indelible mark on our industry. He will be sorely and forever missed, although his legacy will live on. The Principals of Newmark & Company Real Estate Inc. Aaron Gural Jeffrey Gural Barry M. Gosin James Kuhn Arthur H. Lerner Ronald E. Goldberger William G. Cohen Arthur Rosenbloom Marlene Post David A. Falk Neil A. Goldmacher Scott M. Panzer Brian S. Waterman
        GORDON-Edward S. With great sorrow we mourn the loss of our great leader, beloved mentor, and dear friend. Those who really knew him will and can never forget him. He changed the face of this great city with a style and flair distinctly his. I thank him for giving us the platform to do what we do; we could not have done it without him. My deepest sympathy to Cheryl, Robin, Kenny, Allan and their families. I share and am devastated by this tragic loss. I will miss him. He will always live in the hearts of those he touched. To know him was to love him. C. Bradley Mendelson Insignia/ESG
        GORDON-Edward S. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of NY deeply regret the passing of Edward S. Gordon, a friend of our community who touched the lives of thousands of individuals through his generous support. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Cheryl; his children, Kenneth and Robin; his mother, Laura; and the entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        GORDON-Edward S. The Partners, Associates and Staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield mourn the passing of Edward Gordon, our most cherished friend and client of so many years. Ed always demanded the best of us and we are gratified to have met his expectations. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him. We extend our deepest condolences to Ed's beloved family and legion of friends. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
        GORDON-Edward S. My deepest sorrow at the passing of my unforgettable mentor and friend Edward S. Gordon. For the last 28 years Eddie, you have influenced every chapter of my life. You provided an example of strength, business acumen, as well as community involvement and giving. You were a very special friend and you will be greatly missed. My heartful condolences to Cheryl, Laura, Ken, Robin, Steve, Allan and Joan. James B. Emden
        GORDON-Edward S. We respectfully offer our most sincere condolences to Ed's family, friends, and associates, with whom we have been both close friends and a frequent competitor for more that 30 years. Ed brought passion and intensity to everything he did, whether it was business, leisure or philanthropic. Ed's mark on this city, this profession and on everyone he touched, will endure for many decades. The Cohen, Carmel and Roos Families and GVA Williams
        GORDON-Edward S. Ed, if you are reading this, and we bet you are, we will miss you for the rest of our days. You were one of a kind to say the least, but most of all you were a friend. You will be missed and remembered. Our sincerest condolences to Cheryl, Ken, Robin & Steve, Alan and the grandchildren. You will live in our memories. Amelia, Richard, Bradley, Jennifer
        GORDON-Edward S. Donald J. Trump mourns the loss of his dear friend and colleague, Edward S. Gordon. Ed was a brilliant businessman and strategist who became enormously successful, yet also was a man of great principle and honor--a true gentleman! He will be greatly missed! My deepest condolences to his devoted wife Cheryl and the entire Gordon family on this very sad occasion.
        GORDON-Edward S. To the entire Gordon family I wish to express my sorrow at the untimely loss of my friend and mentor Ed Gordon. My heartfelt sympathy goes out to Cheryl, Joan, Robin, Steve, Kenny and Allan. He gave me my start in the real estate business and I will always value his example. He will be sorely missed. Robert B. Emden
        GORDON-Edward S. It is with our fondest memories that we mourn the passing of our dearest friend Edward S. Gordon. Eddie was ''one of a kind'' and when he was born they ''threw the mold away.'' We will always remember the wonderful times that we shared with Ed and Cheryl, and we will forever cherish our friendship. Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol
        GORDON-Edward. The Executive Committee and staff of Forest Electric Corp mourn the loss of Edward Gordon, a friend of all industries. He will be sorely missed. Our sympathies go out to his wonderful wife Shirley who has always been by his side. Forest Electric Corp. Philip Altheim, Chairman/CEO Howard Hirsch, President
        GORDON-Edward S. The partners and staff of Anchin Block & Anchin, LLP are deeply saddened by the loss of their client and friend, Edward S. Gordon. His energy and creativity made him a true visionary in the real estate world. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Cheryl; his children, Robin and Kenneth, and his brother, Allan.
        GORDON-Edward S. An irreplaceable part of our lives has disappeared with the passing of our dearest friend Eddie. His humor, his caring and his contagious laughter will not be part of our days anymore. Cheryl, Robin and Ken, we are sharing your deepest sorrow in this time of bereavement. With our love, Ornella and Bobby
        GORDON-Edward S. Like many of us in the industry, you gave me my first opportunity in the real estate business. You've left an indelible mark on my life and in many respects, I've modeled myself professionally after you. My heart aches for your family, who lost such a dyanamic father and husband. Billy Cohen
        GORDON-Edward S. A unique and remarkable person has touched our lives. With his wit, wisdom and quest for perfection, Eddie's joy of life made our days brighter. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his wife Cheryl, who was the love of his life, and his family. Erica and Charles Miller
        GORDON-Edward S. It is with deep sadness that we acknowledge the passing of Edward S. Gordon and extend our love and heartfelt sympathies to Cheryl, his mother Laura, Ken, Robin, Steve and their children, and also to Joan and Allan. James, Betty, Jason & Andrew Emden
        GORDON-Edward S. Brause Realty Inc. deeply mourns the passing of our valued friend and confidant. Ed's foresight has been a guiding force in the development of the real estate business and will be part of his legacy. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to ''Uncle Eddie's'' family. David A. Brause, Vice President
        GORDON-Edward S. You were and will always be an inspirational force in our lives. Thank you so much for all you have done for us. We love you and will always miss you. Our deepest sympathies are with your loving wife Cheryl and Robin, Kenny and Allan. Paul and Alison
        GORDON-Edward S. A loyal and moral friend. An outstanding and ethical individual who had the regard and respect of his peers; his observations, guidance and presence will be missed by all who knew him. Our condolences to Cheryl, Kenneth and Robin. Harry, Linda and Billy Macklowe
        GORDON-Edward S. In memory of Edward S. Gordon, a good friend to the Israel Cancer Research Fund. For old times sake, from his friend. S. Donald Friedman, Chairman Emeritus and Founder, The Israel Cancer Research Fund
        GORDON-Edward S. Mentor, innovator, industry giant, motivator, perfectionist, principled and loyal friend. You touched my life in so many ways. Your spirit and lessons will live forever in my heart. I will miss you. Your loyal friend, David Maurer-Hollaender
        GORDON-Edward S. The management and staff of Julien J. Studley, Inc. mourns the loss of our friend and respected colleague, Edward S. Gordon. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. Julien J. Studley, Inc.
        GORDON-Edward S. It is with profound sorrow we mourn the passing of our dear friend, Ed Gordon. His wisdom, unique style and true professionalism will be sorely missed. Our deepest condolences to Cheryl and the Gordon family. The Georgetown Company
        GORDON-Edward S. Ruth and Louis Brause and children mourn with great sadness the passing of Edward Gordon, our dear and devoted friend. He will be greatly missed by all of us. Our deepest condolences to the entire family. We will love you forever.
        GORDON-Edward S. The Board of Governors of The Sky Club mourn the passing of our fellow Governor, Edward S. Gordon. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. John T. Sharkey, President The Sky Club
        GORDON-Edward. Young Israel of Harrison mourns the passing of Edward Gordon, beloved father of its devoted member, Robin Apple, and extends heartfelt condolences to Robin and Steve and the entire bereaved family. Yaakov Bienenfeld, Rabbi
        GORDON-Edward S. In memory of our colleague and friend, Ed Gordon, a special individual who changed our lives in extraordinary ways. Robert and Alissa Rudin Mitchell and Bonnie Rudin and Their Families
        GORDON-Edward S. Eddie, my friend, my mentor, and for 16 years my partner. You always told everyone that you would go to heaven because of everything you did for Ronnie. I hope and pray that you were right. Bon voyage. Ronnie Goldberger
        GORDON-Edward S. Dorothy and Martin Bandier and children mourn with great sadness the loss of our longtime friend, Eddie. We will miss his advice, generosity and humor. Our thoughts are with Cheryl, Robin and Kenny.
        GORDON-Edward S. So many years, so many warm, funny, wonderful moments together. To his caring, beautiful Cheryl and devoted children, Robin and Kenny, good night, sweet prince. Ginger and Mike Feuer
        GORDON-Edward S. To a good friend, to a mentor, and to a man of vision. May you rest in peace knowing you have left many people who love you. You will be missed. Barbara and Stuart Schiff
        GORDON-Edward S. We mourn your passing. You were our mentor and friend. You taught us about the business and life. You will never be forgotten. Arthur Draznin, Barry Goodman and Harper-Lawrence Inc.
        GORDON-Edward S. The laughter, warmth and friendship we have shared will live in our hearts. You were so special. Our love and condolences to your wonderful Cheryl, Robin, Kenny and Alan. Susan and Howard Kaskel
        GORDON-Edward S. It is with the most profound sense of sadness that we say goodbye to our dear friend Eddie. He was a true and loyal friend and we will sorely miss him. Sig & Jay Zises and Family
        GORDON-Edward S. On behalf of the partners of The Lansco Corporation and our entire organization, we wish to express our condolences to the family of Edward S. Gordon.
        GORDON-Edward S. We wish to express our sincere condolences to the entire family. We will always treasure our memories. Margie, Bob, David and Lauren Emden
        GORDON-Edward S. E.S.G., it was a privilege to have known a man of such wisdom, wit and warmth. My most heartfelt condolences to Cheryl, Robin & the entire family. Ed Hollander
        GORDON-Edward S. Our darling Eddie-thoughts of you will always make us smile. We will miss you so much. Marsha and Richard Goldberg and Family
        GORDON-Edward S. Peter and Mary Kalikow mourn the passing of our good friend Ed Gordon and would like to send condolences to his wife Cheryl, daughter Robin and son Kenneth.
        GORDON-Edward S. Your courage and never ending optimism made you our hero. We will sorely miss you. We loved you. Rema and Jay Goldberg
        GORDON-Edward S. Ed, you were a great man and a very special friend. We will miss you and never forget you. Pat and Johnny Magliocco
      