
        KOHL-Schuyler G., M.D., DrPH. SUNY-Downstate Medical Center's Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology sorrowfully regrets the passing of Dr. Schuyler G. Kohl, a Distinguished Service Professor in the Department on September 14, 2000. Dr. Kohl was a member of the faculty for a period of fifty years. He was initially appointed to the faculty in the Department at SUNY-Downstate Medical Center in 1950 as a Research Associate. He was subsequently appointed to the level of an Assistant Professor and an Attending Physician at Kings County Hospital Center. In 1962, he was appointed to the level of Professor. During the period 1961-1971, he also served as the Associate Dean for the College of Medicine at SUNY Downstate Medical Center and as the Acting Dean in 1970. He was the Acting Chairman of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology during the period 1976-1978. In 1995, he was appointed to the faculty as a Distinguished Service Professor in the Department. Dr. Kohl participated in landmark efforts to provide family planning services at municipal hospitals in New York City and he trained hundreds of family planning instructors on a national and international level to provide family planning services. In concert with Brooklyn College, he was instrumental in developing a summer employment internship program in the laboratories at SUNY-Downstate for promising students who were interested in pursuing careers in medicine. He served for a period of fifteen years as a member of the Admission's Committee of the College of Medicine at SUNYDownstate Medical Center. He also served as the Chairman of the Admission's Committee for a period of ten years. Throughout Dr. Kohl's extraordinary productive career in medicine and public health, he was actively involved in research and is the author of several books as well as numerous publications. He was a participant on numerous committees, boards and bureaus on a local, national and international level. In 1995, Dr. Kohl retired from his full time faculty position as a Distinguished Service Professor and he continued to work in the Department as a part-time Professor until his death. The Department extends its deepest sympathy to the family.
        KOHL-Schuyler G., M.D. Staff of the Department of OB/GYN at New York Methodist Hospital mourn the passing of Dr. Schuyler Kohl, Distinguished Service Professor of OB/GYN at SUNY Downstate Medical Center for more than 50 years. Educator of students, residents and midwives and dedicated to women's health. Richard H. Schwarz, MD, Chair
      