
        HASSENFELD-Harold Irwin. Of Palm Beach, FL, and Nashville, TN. Died peacefully on September 22, at the age of 84, following a long illness. Mr. Hassenfeld was born January 13, 1916, in Providence, RI, was the oldest son of the late Henry and Marion Hassenfeld. He attended Hope High School in Providence, RI, and graduated from Brown University. Mr. Hassenfeld served in the Army during WWII in Europe. Following his military service Mr. Hassenfeld returned to Providence, RI, becoming President and Chairman of the Board of Hassenfeld Brothers, Inc., now known as Hasbro Industry. In 1946, in a move to expand the ongoing operations and business interests of the family business, Mr. Hassenfeld moved to Nashville, TN, to personally head up the Empire Pencil Company. Mr. Hassenfeld continued as Chairman of the Board of Empire/Berol Corporation until he retired in 1988. Among his many lifetime achievements is included the development of the Epcon process of manufacturing wood-like pencils using resins in place of natural cedar wood. This process revolutionized the writing industry and contributed greatly to the preservation and regeneration of cedar trees commonly used in pencils. Mr. Hassenfeld was involved with many philanthropic interests throughout his lifetime. He was a Fellow at Brandeis University. He also served on the Board of Directors of Temple Emanu-El in Palm Beach, West End Synagogue in Nashville and the American Cancer Society. Both he and his wife, Rita Dee, have been honored by the American Jewish Committee and Jewish Theological Seminary. Mr. Hassenfeld devoted much time and effort to numerous local and national religious and civic organizations thoughout his lifetime. Mr. Hassenfeld was a member of the Paul Harris Fellow Society of Rotary, Masons, Kiwanis and Shriners. Mr. Hassenfeld is survived by his wife Rita Dee Greenberg Hassenfeld, his children Pamela and Anthony Iannacio of Tampa, FL, Elizabeth and Stanley Litchman of Framingham, MA, and John and Heide Hassenfeld of Nashville, TN, four grandchildren, Patricia and Ethan Hassenfeld, and Alexander and Addison Iannacio. Funeral services were held in Nashville, TN, on Monday.
        HASSENFELD-Harold. We were blessed, not only to have known you, but to have had you as part of our family. To know you was to love you. We will miss you. Charles, Doree, Andy, Deanne, Charlie and Emily
      