
        BORN-Robert W. Cherished husband of Esther Born; devoted father of Rita and Fred Distenfeld, and Richard and Deborah Born, and loving grandfather of Michael, Caroline, Jennifer, Claire, and Max. We mourn the passing of our irreplaceable husband, father, and grandfather. He made each of our days special with his warmth, wisdom and wonderful humor, and will remain forever in our hearts. Shiva will be observed at the Born residence.
        BORN-Robert. A survivor of the horrors of the Holocaust who made life beautiful for all those he touched. A loving husband, father, and grandfather. A good, kind, considerate, generous, and humorous man. A farsighted and hospitable hotelier who made NYC a temporary home to hundreds of thousands of tourists and business people. A brilliant and ethical business man and a fair and benevolent employer. A great American and quintessential New Yorker. A gentleman. A loyal and steadfast friend and valued advisor. You will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, children and grandchildren. Vincent F. Pitta and Family
        BORN-Robert W. We mourn the loss of our lifelong friend, Bob. For more than half a century our families have been together. There are no words to express the loss we all feel. Bob's intelligence, warmth, humor and honesty will always be with us. Our thoughts are with Esther, Rita and Fred, Richard and Debbie, Michael, Caroline, Claire, Jenny and Max. We hope that the memories of Bob comfort them in this sorrowful time. Gale, Ira and Jen
        BORN-Robert W. The partners and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield mourn the loss of Robert Born, beloved father of our friend and client Richard Born. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to that most distinguished gentleman's family and legion of friends. Robert will be especially missed by his good friends Bunny and Bert Podell, our Senior Partner. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
        BORN-Robert. Survivor of the Warsaw Ghetto, Vice President of ''WAGRO''. Highly respected and beloved friend. Our deepest sympathy and condolences to his devoted wife Esther, daughter Rita and son Richard and to the entire family. We mourn together. Warsaw Ghetto Resistance Organization Benjamin Meed, President
        BORN-Robert W. I carry a heavy heart, but one filled with gratitude for having had the privilege of spending over 24 years with a man I hold in the highest regard. A man of generosity, wisdom, unique sense of humor-who taught me the true meaning of life. My thoughts and prayers are with his family. Robert F. Cardillo
        BORN-Robert. We painfully mourn the loss of our dearest friend and confidante who we'll miss and remember. He was so very special to us and will remain forever in our hearts. Our deepest sympathy to Esther and family. Sonja and Ignac Turbiner Rachel and Jean-Pierre Lehman
        BORN-Robert. To the family of Robert Born: we mourn the loss of our dear friend, we will miss him greatly. Our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife and children. Sally and Jack Pomeranc Larry and Debby Pomeranc Michael and Terry Pomeranc Jason Pomeranc
        BORN-Robert. The Krakowski, Stawski and Barad families deeply mourn the passing of our longtime dear friend. Our heartfelt sympathy to his dear wife Esther, his children, grandchildren and the entire family.
        BORN-Robert W. The employees of the Wellington Hotel mourn the passing of our beloved President. Our condolences to his family.
      