
        LITTLE-Wm. Brian. Loved husband, father, son, grandfather, father-in-law, friend of Judy, Jackie, Greg, Bill, Will, Megan, Jack, Henry and Alicia. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Colgate University or the Photography Department of the Santa Barbara Museum of Art or the Photography Department of the Museum of Modern Art.
        LITTLE-Wm. Brian. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Wm. Brian Little. A member of the hospital's Board of Trustees from 1985 to 1997, and an Honorary Trustee since 1998, Mr. Little provided outstanding leadership to the institution, including serving as Chairman of the Board's Nominating and Finance Committees. He also helped to advance our delivery of quality medical care through his support of the hospital's rebuilding initiative. To his wife Judith, his family and all of his loved ones, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Lawrence S. Huntington Chairman, Board of Trustees Sigurd H. Ackerman, MD President and CEO J. Thomas Barnard, MD President, Medical Board
        LITTLE-Wm. Brian. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc. deeply mourns the passing of Wm. Brian Little, former member of the New York Philharmonic Board of Directors and a loyal friend of the Orchestra. Cofounder of the leverage buyout firm of Forstmann Little & Co, Mr. Little joined the Philharmonic's Board in October 1990, serving on the Finance Committee and as a Trustee. He retired from the Board in December 1998, but his caring and support will long continue to enrich our lives. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Judy, and to his entire family. Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Zarin Mehta, Executive Director
        LITTLE-Wm. Brian. The Directors and employees of The Topps Company are shocked and deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our esteemed board member, collegaue and friend. Brian was consistently a source of wisdom, vision and inspiration for us all. He will be remembered with profound appreciation and sorely missed. All of us wish to express our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to his family. Arthur T. Shorin, Chairman
        LITTLE-Wm. Brian. The Board of Directors and the employees of Hampton Jitney, Inc. note with great sadness the sudden passing of our Chairman and friend, Wm. Brian Little. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Judy; his son, Gregg; his daughter, Jackie; and all his family. Brian's wise counsel and guidance will be sorely missed, and his memory as a friend will always endure. J. Brent Lynch, President Hampton Jitney, Inc.
        LITTLE-Wm Brian. A man who celebrated life every day, inexplicably taken so early. A friend of wondrous warmth and wit who enriched our lives many fold. Brian was one in a million. Our deepest sympathy to Judy and the family at this incredibly difficult time. Much love, Beverly and Arthur
        LITTLE-William B. To our dear friend Brian, a most elegant and honorable individual. Your kindness, love of life and dedication to your family and friends will always be an inspiration to us. Jerome Friedman, Katherine, Elizabeth, Claudia, Matthew and John.
        LITTLE-Wm. Brian. Our handsome, warm, generous and caring friend, wise and loyal counselor who we will love and miss forever. Friday's Girls
        LITTLE-Wm. Brian. Service Thursday, September 21, 2000, 11:00 AM, The Juilliard Theater, 155 W. 65th St. (between Amsterdam and Broadway), theatre entrance under overpass, New York, NY. Phone: 212-799-5000.
      