
        DAVIS-Sophie. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Sophie Davis. Sophie and her husband Leonard have been long time supporters and Benefactors of The Hebrew University as well as many secular and Jewish causes in Florida and New York. Many programs at the University have benefited from their generosity, most notably the Leonard Davis Institute for International Relations and the Sanford F. Kuvin Center for the Study of Infectious and Tropical Diseases. Their wise counsel and dedicated support have provided the foundation for AFHU activities in Palm Beach, Fl. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband Leonard, her sons Alan and Michael, her four grandchildren, and the entire family. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President Professor Menahem Ben-Sasson, Rector Yigal Arnon, Chairman of the Board of Governors American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chairman of the Board Barbara A. Mandel, Honorary President Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        DAVIS-Sophie. The staff and Board of Aaron Davis Hall deeply regret the passing of our founding benefactor Sophie Davis. Sophie, with her husband Leonard provided major contributions toward the construction of Aaron Davis Hall, named in honor of Leonard's father. Their generosity has extended through the twenty years of the Hall's existence with an annual gift that has been critical to the mission and sustained life of Aaron Davis Hall, Harlem's Principal Center for the Performing Arts. We offer our sincere condolences on her passing to her husband and partner Leonard, her sons Alan and Michael, their families, and her friend and colleague Marilyn Hoadley.
        DAVIS-Sophie. The Officers, Board of Directors, and Staff of the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County mourn the passing of a great community treasure, Sophie Davis. She will be remembered for her commitment, generosity and wisdom by all who knew and admired her and by generations to come, who will be inspired by her fine example. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Leonard, a pillar of our Jewish community; to her sons, Alan and Michael, and to the entire family. Eugene J. Ribakoff, President Jeffrey L. Klein, Exec. V.P.
        DAVIS-Sophie. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our good friend Sophie Davis. Sophie and her husband Leonard were committed to, and generous supporters of, the League's work. We extend our condolences to Leonard and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director Arnold Forster General Counsel
      