
        BERNHEIM-Leonard H., Jr. Died on Tuesday evening after a long battle with pancreatic cancer. Born May 24th, 1937 in New York City, he is survived by his devoted wife of 33 years, Stephanie Hammerschlag Bernheim; their loving children, Erica Bernheim, Claudia Bernheim and her husband, Leo Raphaely; loyal brother Charles Bernheim and his wife Rachel and her daughters Ashley & Samantha Haspel; brother and sister-in-law Paul & Margaret Hammerschlag and their daughter Zoe; mother-inlaw Belle Hammerschlag Trattler and her brother Herbert Stessin. The family will be at home 5:00 to 7:30 P.M. Thursday, September 21. Services will be held at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. & 65th Street at 11 AM Friday In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be sent to JBFCS, 120 W. 57th St., NY, NY 10019; the Art Museum at Princeton University, McCormick Hall, Princeton, NJ 08544; or the Department of Arts of Africa, Oceania and the Americas at The Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1000 5th Avenue, NY, New York 10028.
        BERNHEIM-Leonard H., Jr. The Board of Trustees of the Lexington School and Center for the Deaf mourn the passing of its longtime Trustee, Mr. Bernheim, serving from 1970 to 1995, as well as President 1977 through 1981. Mr. Bernheim played a crucial role in Lexington's becoming a leading community service agency serving deaf and hard-of-hearing persons and their families through the establishment of mental health, hearing and speech, and vocational services as well as a research center, in addition to its international reputation as a school for deaf children. Mr. Bernheim's generosity, wisdom and counsel contributed greatly to Lexington's continued leadership in the field. Martin L.A. Sternberg, Chairman Philip W. Bravin, President Oscar P. Cohen, Superintendent and CEO The Lexington School for the Deaf/Center for the Deaf
        BERNHEIM-Leonard H., Jr. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Leonard H. Bernheim, Jr., our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who loved him be comforted. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
      