
        FOOS-George. Passed peacefully in San Francisco on September 18th. He was preceded by is loving wife Helen in 1994. He is survived by his sons Richard, David, and Garson, his daughters-in-law Shari, Susana, and Nicole, and his five grandchildren, Harley, Miguel, Santiago, Sydney and Zachary. He is also survived by his beloved Helga Justman. George was born on October 30, 1920 in Camden, New Jersey. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Rutgers University in 1940 and enlisted in the Army in 1941 where he served as a cryptoanalyst in the intelligence corps in the Pacific. He was instrumental in breaking enemy codes. Upon returning from the service, he began a career in retailing, working for department stores in New York, New Jersey, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, and Los Angeles. In L.A. he was Chief Executive Officer of the May Company from 1970 to 1977. In 1977 he moved to S.F. where he served as Chairman of the Board of Emporium/Capwell Department Stores until his retirement. Since retirement he has served as a consultant and was on the board of directors of Clothestime, Abercrombie and Fitch and other corporations. He was also a longstanding member of Hillcrest and Lake Merced Golf and Country Clubs. His greatest passion was his strong belief in community responsibility and giving back to the less fortunate. Throughout his life he dedicated himself to a myriad of causes. In the late sixties, he and his wife Helen founded a scholarship program for minority youths entitled HELM (Higher Education for Los Angeles Minorities). In L.A. he was also Chairman of the American Jewish Committee and a Board member of the NAACP. In San Francisco he served on the board of the Fine Arts Museum, was President of The American Jewish Committee and was a founding board member of The American Jewish World Service. In addition, he served on the Board and was Campaign Chairman of the Jewish Community Federation. Also, he was on SF's Mayor Brown's committee for welfare reform. Throughout his entire life he was a staunch supporter of liberal causes and the Democratic Party. In lieu of flowers the family has requested donations be sent to the American Jewish World Service, 989 Avenue of the Americas, NY, NY 10018 or the American Jewish Committee, 121 Stewart Street, #
      