
        GORDON-Edward S. The Directors, Trustees and Staff of National Jewish Medical and Research Center in Denver, CO, express their sincerest condolences to the Gordon Family and the many friends of Edward S. Gordon. Mr. Gordon was a 1991 recipient of The National Jewish Medical and Research Center Humanitarian Award. In addition, he established The Paula Gordon Memorial Research Fund in allergies at National Jewish. Mr. Gordon enriched the lives of those near him and did so for patients at National Jewish, as well, through the establishment of The Allergy Research Fund. Family, friends, and business associates will truly miss his leadership and friendship. Larry Silverstein, Treasurer National Jewish Medical and Research Center Lynn M. Tauffig, MD, President and CEO National Jewish Medical and Research Center
        GORDON-Edward S. In memory of Edward S. Gordon. I met Ed Gordon in 1992 and for the last eight years, Ed and I have had many, many stimulating conversations. Some, probably, might be characterized as arguments. But in the end and in each case, we always respected one another and, in each case, we always reached a conclusion or compromise and we were stronger friends after each of these experiences then we were before. I'll very much miss Ed Gordon. I know his family will and I also know that the City of New York will miss Ed Gordon. Ed Gordon was a real proponent of New York, of Manhattan and of the mankind who make up that wonderful city. So, to Ed Gordon, thank you for all you've done for me and for all of the people who have had the opportunity and good fortune to be your friend. Monroe Carell, Jr. Central Parking System
        GORDON-Edward S. We mourn the passing of Edward S. Gordon, our friend and colleague who was a true leader and visionary in the real estate industry. Eddie was both a legendary dealmaker and a charitable New Yorker whose generosity touched many lives. We send his family our sincere condolences. He will be profoundly missed. The Fisher Family
        GORDON-Edward S. Ed, if you are reading this, and we bet you are, we will miss you for the rest of our days. You were one of a kind to say the least, but most of all you were a friend. You will be missed and remembered. Our sincerest condolences to Cheryl, Ken, Robin & Steve, Alan and the grandchildren. You will live in our memories. Amelia, Richard, Bradley, Jennifer
        GORDON-Edward S. The board, staff and students of the New York City Outward Bound Center mourn the loss of our friend Ed Gordon. His deep love of New York City and his unshakeable faith in its future continue to inspire us. Our heartfelt condolences go out to his wife Cheryl and his entire family.
        GORDON-Edward S. Ed's passing will leave an indelible void in the lives of all who knew him. He was a true gentleman and devoted friend who won respect in his business activities and affection from his friends. My heartfelt condolences to his family. Sheldon H. Solow
        GORDON-Edward S. George S. Kaufman mourns the loss of our dear friend, a gentleman and brilliant man of principle; he will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences to his devoted wife Cheryl and the entire family. Marianna and George
        GORDON-Edward. With deep sorrow and loving memories for my nephew Edward. Aida Born
        GORDON-Edward. I remember with sorrow and love the evenings we spent with Eddie and Cheryl. Dorothy Baumritter
      