
        STIEBEL-Eric. On September 21, 2000 at the age of 89. Beloved husband of Irene. Loving father of Gerald and his wife, Penelope. Adoring grandfather of Catherine Fiebach, Daniel & Hunter Stiebel. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street Friday, September 22nd, 1:30PM. Interment is to follow at Sharon Gardens Cemetery. Contributions in his memory may be made to the UJA/Federation.
        STIEBEL-Eric. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their friend, for many years a senior member of the distinguished firm of Rosenberg & Stiebel. A gentleman and scholar in every sense of those terms, he had the respect and admiration of his colleagues. Our sympathy and condolences to his widow, Irene, his son Gerald, a former ADAA Boardmember, his wife Penelope, and Eric's grandchildren and great grandchildren. Richard Gray, President Gilbert S. Edelson, Admin. VP
        STIEBEL-Eric. The National Antique & Art Dealers Association of America, Inc., mourns the passing of its longtime member, Eric Stiebel, father of Gerald, our past president, of Stiebel, Ltd. (formerly Rosenberg & Stiebel) and extends heartfelt condolences to his family. Andrew H. Chait, President Arlie Sulka, Secretary
        STIEBEL-Eric. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Irene and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Sr. Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President
        STIEBEL-Eric. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Eric Stiebel. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Irene and family. Jerome H. Grossman, President Enid Rosenthal, Secretary
        STIEBEL-Eric. We are deeply saddened to hear of Eric's passing. He was a wonderful, kind, gentle and caring individual. He certainly will be missed by all who knew him. Our sincere condolences to the Stiebel family. Jeffrey and Nancy Haber
      