
        JARCHO-Saul, MD. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of this highly-esteemed physician-historian whose career with Mount Sinai covered over half a century. Dr. Jarcho joined Mount Sinai in 1931 holding appointments in the Department of Medicine until 1980. He was fulltime assistant to the Chiefs of Medical Service from 1946 to 1951 and was in charge of cardiovascular research for two years beginning in 1949. Dr. Jarcho was known for his keen insights as a clinician, teacher and researcher of medical history. In 1970 he was awarded the coveted Jacobi Medallion by the Mount Sinai Alumni. A prolific writer of 200 articles and 10 books, Dr. Jarcho's last book, ''Concepts of Contagion'', was recently released. He will be remembered fondly and sorely missed by patients and colleagues. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife, Irma, his sons, Tom and Andrew, and to the entire family. Helene L. Kaplan, Chair, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chair, Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh., Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine John W. Rowe, MD, President Mount Sinai NYU Health Barry R. Freedman, President The Mount Sinai Hospital
        JARCHO - Saul, M.D. The Trustees, Fellows and staff of The New York Academy of Medicine record with sorrow the death of Saul Jarcho, a distinbuished physician, a leading historian of medicine, and broad-ranging scholar. Elected to Fellowship in the Academy in 1940, he remained vigorously and effectively engaged in its activities for nearly sixty years, including the publication of his last book under Academy auspices just a month before he died. He served as Chairman of the Library Committee for a number of years, and as President of the Friends of the Rare Book Room. He was Editor-in-Chief of the Bulletin of the New York Academy of Medicine from 1967 to 1976. Throughout his association with the Academy, he lent remarkable intelligence, devotion to high standards of scholarship and a sparkling understated wit to its procedings. The Academy extends its deep sympathies to his wife, Irma, and the rest of the family. Stanley Brezenoff, Chairman, Board of Trustees Jeremiah A. Barondess, M.D., President
      