
        APPEL-Alfred. Of New York City, on September 6, 2000 in his 95th year. Beloved husband of Beatrice with whom he celebrated their 69th wedding anniversary on Sunday, September 3rd. A graduate of Townsend Harris High School at age 15, Cornell University, Class of 1926, Cornell Law School, Class of 1928, he was a former managing partner at Proskauer Rose Goetz and Mendelsohn, where he practiced law for over 65 years. In addition to being a member of the Cornell Law School Advisory Council, he was National Chairman of The Cornell Law School Fund and served on several boards of directors of prominent companies. He was also a member of the Great Neck Board of Education and a trustee of the Society for Hillside Hospital. A gentle and wise friend and advisor, he is also survived by his children, Professor Alfred Appel, Jr. and Dean Nina Appel, Betty and Paul Schaffer, and John S. Appel and Barbara Wolkowitz, his grandchildren Karen and Gene Oshman, Richard J. Appel and Mona Simpson, Dr. Mark A. Schaffer, Catherine Schaffer and greatgrandchildren Stephen and Katherine Oshman and Gabriel Jandali Appel and Grace Appel Jandali; also survived by his brother-in-law Dr. Burton Hoffman and wife Lynn and numerous nephews and nieces. Service on Friday, September 8, 2000 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.
        APPEL-Alfred. The partners, senior counsel, associates and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the loss of our beloved senior partner Alfred, who died at the age of 94. Alfred's devotion to the Firm spanned more than seventy years, from his start as a young associate in 1928 to his years spent as the head of our corporate practice, to his service as a managing partner and beyond. A man of quiet intellect and decency, Alfred was prized within the Firm for his ''good humor, good nature and good sense.'' His kind and supportive manner spoke volumes to generations of attorneys who would emulate his leadership style. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Beatrice; sons Alfred Jr. and John; daughter Elizabeth A. Schaffer; daughters-in-law Nina S. Appel and Barbara Wolkowitz; son-in-law Paul M. Schaffer; grandchildren Karen, Richard, Mark and Catherine; great-grandchildren Stephen, Katherine, Gabriel and Grace, and all his family and friends. Alan S. Jaffe, Chairman Proskauer Rose LLP
        APPEL-Alfred. We painfully mourn the loss of our dear friend. We will miss him greatly. Our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife, Bea, children and grandchildren. Salomon and Elsa Moussatche
      