
        TUROBINER-Alice. The worldwide Shaare Zedek family mourns with profound grief and sorrow the passing of a dear friend and benefactor. To everyone who had the good fortune of knowing her, Alice personified the qualities of extraordinary dignity, elegance and grace. Throughout both her professional as well as her personal life, she exemplified the values of integrity and kindness. Ever faithful to Am Yisrael, Torat Yisrael and Eretz Yisrael, her heart pulsed to the beat of Jerusalem, a city she deeply loved and cared for. Together with her husband Harold, a cherished member of our National Board, the Turobiner's leadership and outstretched hand of friendship benefited so many worthy institutions both in their own community as well as in Israel. The Medical Center had the good fortune to be the beneficiary of their largesse. We will fondly remember Alice's leadership as Vice President of our National Women's Division as well as the ''tight ship'' which she chaired at its Annual Luncheons. Her intelligence, wit and insight greatly benefited the hospital's international Board of Governors on which she served. Through their patronage of the Jesselson Heart Center and the Harry, Judith and Leonard Wilf Woman and Infant Center on ''Charlie's Floor'', the Turobiners have helped to place Shaare Zedek in the forefront of Israel's premier medical centers. Her legacy of charitable endeavors stands as testimony of her commitment to the highest values and ethics of traditional Judaism. Our sincerest condolences to Harold, daughters Carol Finley and Ann Dachs, and the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm for Shaare Zedek Jerusalem Med. Ctr.
        TUROBINER - Alice. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva records with deep sorrow the passing of Alice Turobiner, beloved wife, mother and grandmother. A charming and valiant woman honored together with her husband Harold with the Yaakov Herzog Memorial award and a devoted friend and supporter of YBA and Yeshivat Hakotel. May the family be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Irwin Kanarek, Co-President Alan Wildes, Co-President Marvin Bienenfeld, Chairman Joel Schreiber, Vice Chairman Rabbi David Warshaw, Exec. Dir.
        TUROBINER-Alice. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its distinguished member, beloved wife of Harold Turobiner and mother of Carol Finley and Annie Dachs. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood
      