
        BAILIS-Susan. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the loss of Susan Bailis, a dear friend who shared an enduring commitment to the Jewish community with her beloved father, Sanford Solender, and her cherished brother, Stephen D. Solender. Through her own heartfelt efforts, she embraced the legacy of her father, who served as executive vice president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York for 11 years, a predecessor to UJA-Federation. And like her brother, who served as executive vice president of UJA-Federation for 13 years, Mrs. Bailis combined a deep concern for humanitarian causes with love for the Jewish people. A social worker who rose to the ranks of top hospital administrator, and eventually built New England's largest nursing home company, Mrs. Bailis was a tireless crusader, dedicated to improving health care for the elderly and promoting research leading to advanced treatments and cures for breast cancer. A devoted leader respected by her colleagues, friends, and family for her generosity and vision, Mrs. Bailis served as chair of the board at the Heller School at Brandeis University and at the Simmons College School of Social Work. She was a dedicated member of the boards of Brandeis University, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Boston, and Americans for Peace Now. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mrs. Bailis' beloved husband, Lawrence; her children, Kathryn and David; her father, Sanford, and brother, Stephen; her sister-in-law, Elsa; and her entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        BAILIS-Susan. The officers, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities are deeply saddened by the passing of Susan Solender Bailis, beloved sister of our President and CEO, Stephen D. Solender, and daughter of Sanford Solender, former Executive Vice President of Federations of Jewish Philanthropies of New York. Susan Bailis, a loving and devoted wife, mother and friend; an outstanding philanthropist, successful business leader and champion of women's health issues, will continue to be an inspiration, not only to those who knew her, but to thousands of others whose lives were touched by her caring ways, her compassion and her courage. She expressed her deep commitment to the Jewish people and her love of Israel through dedicated service as a Board member of Brandeis University, Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Boston, and Americans for Peace Now. She served as Board Chair of The Heller School at Brandeis University and as Board Chair at Simmons College. She will be deeply missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Lawrence; her children, Katherine and David; her father, Sanford Solender; to Elsa and Steve Solender; her brother and sister-in-law, Peter and Susan Solender and her sister and brother-in-law, Ellen and Harvey Hirsch. The funeral will be held in the Spingold Theater at Brandeis University at 10 AM on Friday, September 29. In lieu of flowers, remembrances may be made to the Susan S. Bailis Breast Cancer Research Fund of the Silent Spring Institute, 29 Crafts St., Newton, MA 02458.
        BAILIS-Susan. The Board of Directors, Faculty and Staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership extend deepest condolences to Sanford Solender, our esteemed Board member, his son, Stephen, and the entire family on the passing of their beloved daughter and sister, Susan Bailis. May the loving memory of Susan's wisdom and courage enhance the life of her family and the many people and institutions she so generously inspired and supported, and may they find a place of comfort at this time. Barbara B. Friedman, Chairman Rabbi Irwin Kula, President Donna M. Rosenthal, Executive Vice Chairman
        BAILIS-Susan. The National Foundation for Jewish Culture mourns the untimely passing of Susan Bailis, daughter of our beloved board member, Sanford Solender, and sister of our colleague and friend Stephen Solender. May the family soon find comfort in their mourning. Lynn Korda Kroll, President Robert M. Frankel, Chairman of the Board Richard A. Siegel, Exec. Director
      