
        MONTGOMERY-Robert H. Jr. The Board of Directors of AmSong, Inc. mourns the passing of our founding member and dear friend, Robert H. Montgomery, Jr. Bob's warmth, intelligence, integrity and dedication to songwriters and their families won him the love and respect of our entire membership. We will miss him greatly. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Henriette and his family. Ellen Donaldson, Co-Pres. Paul Schwartz, Co-Pres. Hoagy Bix Carmichael, Past Pres. Lisa Alter, Counsel
        MONTGOMERY-Robert H., Jr. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison greatly mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Robert H. Montgomery, Jr. Bob was the head of our Entertainment Department for many years and a member of the Paul, Weiss family for 50 years. Bob was also the Trustee of the Cole Porter Musical Literary Property Trusts for 23 years. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Henriette, daughter, Margaret, son, Sam and two grandchildren, Roland and Robert.
        MONTGOMERY - Robert. The Bay Street Theatre Board of Trustees and staff mourn the loss of a cherished friend and colleague. His wisdom and commitment to the Theatre were surpassed only by his kindness and generosity. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Ana Daniel, Chairman Bay Street Theatre
        MONTGOMERY-Robert H., Jr. The American Musicals Project at The New-York Historical Society mourns the loss of our finest supporter, our wonderful friend, the man who helped make all of our programs possible, who never said no. He will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathy to Henriette and to his children. Alan Levenstein, Chairman
        MONTGOMERY - Robert. The Editorial and Advisory Boards of Partisan Review mourn the loss of a great man, valuable advisor, and dear friend. Bob Montgomery was an active board member of PR from its earliest days and will be deeply missed. William Phillips, Editor-in-Chief Edith Kurzweil, Editor Joanna S. Rose, Chairman
      