
        GILLIATT-Neal. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc. deeply mourns the passing of Neal Gilliatt, a member of the New York Philharmonic's Board of Directors and a tireless supporter of the Orchestra since 1978. A leader in the advertising and marketing industry and President and Marketing Consultant of Neal Gilliatt/Stuart Watson, Inc., Mr. Gilliatt was an enthusiatic participant in all Philharmonic activities and served on many Philharmonic committees, including a long tenure as Chairman of the Marketing Committee. In recognition of his many efforts on behalf of the Orchestra, he was elected an Honorary Board Member in December, 1998. His devotion and generosity to the New York Philharmonic will long continue to enrich our lives. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Mary, and to his entire family. Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Zarin Mehta, Executive Director
        GILLIATT-Neal. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of Neal Gilliatt, a dear friend, respected leader and longtime supporter. A former recipient of AJC's National Human Relations Awards in our Advertising Division. Neal graciously served as Chairman for industry events for many years working to fulfill our mutual vision of a more tolerant and compassionate society. We are indebted to him for his dedication to our mission and his efforts on our behalf. We send sincere condolences to his wife Mary, his son David, his grandchildren and the rest of the grieving family. Bruce M. Ramer, President David A. Harris, Exec Director Jaime Kelstein, Development Dir
        GILLIATT-Neal. Trustees, Administration and Blanton-Peale community mourn the passing of Neal Gilliatt who for over 30 years was Board Member and Chairman-a towering figure of support, encouragement and leadership to the growth and outreach of BlantonPeale. He was friend, faithful steward and will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to Mary Gilliatt and the family on their profound loss.
        GILLIATT-Neal. The board and staff of the National Executive Service Corps are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed colleague, friend and longtime board member, Neal Gilliatt. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Mary and son David. A. Wright Elliott, Chairman Eleanor Holtzman, President
      