
        DAVIS-Sophie. Beloved wife of Leonard Davis, died at home on September 16, 2000, in Palm Beach, FL. She was 74. Born Sophie Kesten in the Bronx, Sophie and her husband Leonard succsesfully founded the Colonial Penn Group in 1963. Sophie and Leonard became the most generous living donors in the history of CCNY. They funded its performing arts center as well as the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education. Sophie served as Trustee of the Norton Museum of Art. She and Leonard spearheaded the drive to build Palm Beach's first major performing arts center, the Kravis Center. The Davises founded the Regional Arts Foundation and Sophie served as its President for twenty years. Sophie was also involved with the Jewish Federation, the Jewish Community Center and Hebrew University. She was one of the founding members who built the Holocaust Museum in Washington, DC. Sophie is survived by her husband of fifty-four years; her two sons, Alan and Michael; and four grandchildren, Jaimee, Paul, Nettizanne and Nyracai Davis. Services will be held at Temple Emanu-El in Palm Beach on September 19, at 11 AM. Memorial contributions may be made to the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education at CCNY.
        DAVIS-Sophie. My dear friend. She will always be remembered for her passion for life and adventurous spirit, her courage and charity. Those who knew her delighted in her wit and wisdom. She graced an otherwise complicated and rigid world with her unaffected nature and easy manner. ''Wherever people gather, her deeds speak her praise.'' My heartfelt condolences to her beloved Leonard, their children and families. May cherished memories offer comfort to all of us who mourn her. Diane
        DAVIS-Sophie. It is with deep personal sadness that I mourn the passing of Sophie Davis-an extraordinary woman of great courage. Her warmth, kindness and love of life were an inspiration to all who knew her. I will miss her always. My sympathy to her husband Leonard, her children Alan and Michael, and their families. Ron Kochman
        DAVIS-Sophie. We extend our deepest sympathies to Leonard, Michael and Alan on the loss of Sophie. She was always there to help those who needed her support and understanding. Michael, David, Susan and David Cameron Fischer
      