
        SELLON-John A. Rye, New York. A retired executive of the American Reinsurance Company died Monday at his home in Rye, New York. Mr. Sellon was the Senior Underwriting Officer of American Re until his retirement in 1972. Born May 20, 1910 in London, England, Mr. Sellon arrived in the United States with his family in 1918 and established residence in Rye, New York. He graduated from Rye Country Day and the Choate School in Wallingford, CT. He attended Princeton University for one year, but left to pursue his professional career during the Great Depression. Starting at American Re in 1931, he rose through the underwriting ranks until he became the Senior Underwriting Officer in the 1950's. He remained active in the insurance industry after his retirement, cofounding Sellon Associates, a reinsurance brokerage in 1973 with his son, Peter. Sellon Associates co-founded MISC (the municipal bond insurance service company), which is one of the predecessor entities of MBIA, Inc., the municipal bond insurance firm headquartered in Armonk, NY. Mr. Sellon remained active and involved in the re-insurance industry through his association with Sellon Associates and MBIA well into his 80's. Mr. Sellon was a benefactor to many charitable insititutions, in particular the Theosophical Society of America, which is headquartered in Wheaton, Illinois and especially the Society's Lodge in New York City. He was instrumental in the founding and development of the Theosophical Society's retreat in the Berkshires of upstate New York. Mr. Sellon made numerous international trips to theosophical gatherings in the company of his wife, the former Emily B. Sellon. Mrs. Sellon, who was a noted lecturer on Theosophy, passed away in 1993. In addition to his three sons, Peter, Michael and Jeffrey, Mr. Sellon is survived by nine grandchildren and eleven great-grandchildren. A memorial service for Mr. Sellon will be planned at a later date. Donations in lieu of flowers can be made to The New York Theosophical Society, 240 East 53rd Street, New York, NY 10022, in Mr. Sellon's memory.
      