
        GORDON-Edward S. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow at the passing of Edward S. Gordon, and to extend our deepest condolences to his family. He left an indelible mark on our industry. He will be sorely and forever missed, although his legacy will live on. The Principals of Newmark & Company Real Estate Inc. Aaron Gural Jeffrey Gural Barry M. Gosin James Kuhn Arthur H. Lerner Ronald E. Goldberger William G. Cohen Arthur Rosenbloom Marlene Post David A. Falk Neil A. Goldmacher Scott M. Panzer Brian S. Waterman
        GORDON-Edward S. The National Jewish Outreach Program mourns the passing of one of its founders, Edward S. Gordon. The father of Robin Gordon Apple, a distinguished member of NJOP's Board of Directors. Mr. Gordon was a tower of strength and wisdom for NJOP, providing critcial financial support and wise counsel throughout NJOP's existence. NJOP's success in its mission to provide every North American Jew with a basic Jewish education can be attributed directly to his efforts on NJOP's behalf. Condolences to his wife Cheryl, mother Laura, daughter Robin (and Stephen) Apple and family, son Kenneth and brother Allan who have all joined Mr. Gordon in support of NJOP's vital work. Ephraim Z. Buchwald, Dir.
        GORDON-Edward S. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York are deeply saddened by loss of Ed. He was a man of strong principle, a leader in our industry, admired and respected by all. A dedicated Vice President of the Foundation, always supportive of our goals and beliefs. We send our sincerest condolencess to his family, colleagues and friends. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        GORDON-Edward S. We respectfully offer our most sincere condolences to Ed's family, friends, and associates, with whom we have been both close friends and a frequent competitor for more that 30 years. Ed brought passion and intensity to everything he did, whether it was business, leisure or philanthropic. Ed's mark on this city, this profession and on everyone he touched, will endure for many decades. The Cohen, Carmel and Roos Families and GVA Williams
        GORDON-Edward S. Ed, if you are reading this, and we bet you are, we will miss you for the rest of our days. You were one of a kind to say the least, but most of all you were a friend. You will be missed and remembered. Our sincerest condolences to Cheryl, Ken, Robin & Steve, Alan and the grandchildren. You will live in our memories. Amelia, Richard, Bradley, Jennifer
        GORDON-Edward. The members of the Young Men's/Women's Real Estate Association of New York wish to express their profound sorrow and loss with the passing of one of its former chairmen. He was a leader and visionary in the real estate community and we will remember him for his wisdom, strength and dedication. The members extend their deepest condolences to his family.
        GORDON-Edward S. He displayed his determination, drive and perspective not only in his tremendously successful business career, but also in his life and battle with cancer. He never asked ''why me?'' and always appreciated his wonderful life. He was a loyal friend who taught me a great deal. I will always miss him. Tony Saytanides
        GORDON-Edward S. Like many of us in the industry, you gave me my first opportunity in the real estate business. You've left an indelible mark on my life and in many respects, I've modeled myself professionally after you. My heart aches for your family, who lost such a dyanamic father and husband. Billy Cohen
        GORDON-Edward S. George S. Kaufman mourns the loss of our dear friend, a gentleman and brilliant man of principle; he will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences to his devoted wife Cheryl and the entire family. Marianna and George
        GORDON-Edward S. Eddie, my friend, my mentor, and for 16 years my partner. You always told everyone that you would go to heaven because of everything you did for Ronnie. I hope and pray that you were right. Bon voyage. Ronnie Goldberger
        GORDON-Edward S. All of us at Linden Alschuler & Kaplan record with sorrow the passing of Ed Gordon. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Cheryl and the entire family, as well as to the Insignia/ESG Company.
        GORDON-Edward S. GoodmanMarks Associates, Inc., mourns the passing of our friend and client. Eddie will be greatly missed but always remembered. Robert Marks, President
      