
        DAVIS-Sophie. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of a most generous benefactress, Sophie Davis. Mrs. Davis and her husband Leonard were outstanding supporters of medical research and health care, and the School of Medicine shared in her generosity through its participation in the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education at the City University of New York. The Leonard and Sophie Davis Foundation also provided ongoing support for research in endocrinology. Sophie Davis's conribution will be long remembered. We extend our sincere sympathy to her husband and the entire family. Helene L. Kaplan, Chairman, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Stephen M. Peck, Chairman, Mount Sinai NYU Health Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh., Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Barry R. Freedman, Acting President, Mount Sinai NYU Health
        DAVIS-Sophie. We are profoundly grieved by the passing of our dear friend, a woman of courage and compassion, whose dedication to the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is both a legacy and an inspiration. With her beloved husband, Leonard, she was a Benefactor of our medical school and a Guardian of our University. The Leonard and Sophie Davis Foundation Research Laboratories at Einstein are but one example of her deep commitment to biomedical research and education. To Leonard; to their sons, Alan and Michael; and to the entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        DAVIS-Sophie. On behalf of the entire community of The City College of New York and The Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education/CUNY Medical School, we note with great sorrow the passing of our founding benefactor, Sophie Davis. She provided unstinting support for the School from its inception. Her spirit, generosity, and care for others will be forever remembered in the mission of The Sophie Davis School and through the medical services given by past, present and future generations of our graduates. We express our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Leonard, and to her two sons, Alan and Michael and their families. Stanford A. Roman, Jr., M.D. President The City College of New York Dean, The Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education/ CUNY Medical School
        DAVIS-Sophie. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York deeply regret the passing of Sophie Davis, a dear friend of the Jewish community. She was admired for her extraordinary generosity and deep commitment to Jewish causes. We extend our sincerest condolences to her beloved husband, Leonard, who shared his wife's devotion to the Jewish community; to her sons, Alan and Michael; and to the entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Ernest W. Michel, Executive VP Emeritus
        DAVIS-Sophie. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff mournfully acknowledge the passing of our benefactor whose passion for classical music and love of Israel brought the IPO to Palm Beach. Sophie was an impresario and her dedication to cultural endeavors will always be remembered. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Leonard and their family. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman, Co-Chairmen Herman S. Sandler, President Al Schussler, President Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec Director
        DAVIS-Sophie. My dear friend. She will always be remembered for her passion for life and adventurous spirit, her courage and charity. Those who knew her delighted in her wit and wisdom. She graced an otherwise complicated and rigid world with her unaffected nature and easy manner. ''Wherever people gather, her deeds speak her praise.'' My heartfelt condolences to her beloved Leonard, their children and families. May cherished memories offer comfort to all of us who mourn her. Diane
        DAVIS-Sophie. The Board of Directors of The City College Fund mourns the loss of Sophie Davis, wife of our distinguished Board member, Leonard Davis. Their combined generosity and devotion to The City College of New York have left an indelible mark from which future generations of students will benefit. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Leonard, and his family. Stanley H. Kaplan, -39B Chairman Herbert Robinson, Esq., -37L President
        DAVIS-Sophie. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Norton Museum of Art, West Palm Beach, FL., are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and long-time supporter, Sophie Davis. Our deepest and heartfelt condolences are extended to her husband Leonard and their sons Alan and Michael, and their families. Her wisdom, strength of character and energetic spirit will be greatly missed.
        DAVIS-Sophie. The AmericaIsrael Cultural Foundation is deeply saddened at Sophie's death and our hearts go out to Leonard and their family. In addition to her many incredible good deeds, the Board is grateful to Sophie and to Leonard for having established Israel's Fund to provide musical instruments for newcomers. Without it, many fine musicians would be unable to work or perform. Vera Stern, President
        DAVIS-Sophie. The Board of Governors at the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Sophie Davis and offers it heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David Mack, President Marshall Hess, Secretary
        DAVIS-Sophie. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire Davis family. We will remember Sophie always for her loving, caring, spontaneous personality. She will be deeply missed. Kathi and Gary Cypres; Sherry and Ken Endelson.
        DAVIS-Sophie. Very few women pass this way who can match Sophie's kindness, wit, generosity and above all her integrity. To Leonard, Alan, Michael and their families, our sincere sympathy. Charles and Muriel Kornheiser
        DAVIS-Sophie. We mourn the loss of our good friend, an outstanding philanthropist and wonderful human being. Our condolences to the entire Davis family. The Mack Family
      