
        TUROBINER-Alice. Yeshiva University, its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, and the YU Women's Organization are deeply grieved by the passing of a dynamic, gracious, and selfless leader on behalf of our institution. With her beloved husband, Harold-who was a member of the YU High Schools Board-she was a YU Guardian. She played a major role in strengthening the YUWO, serving on the executive council, as honorary national president and past copresident. She will be sorely missed by her YUWO coworkers. Mr. and Mrs. Turobiner established a YUHS scholarship in their names and were honored with the YUHS Centennial Achievement Award in 1986. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Harold; children, both alumni, Carol (and John) Finley and Ann (and Jonathan) Dachs; grandchildren; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University David S. Gottesman, Chairman Board of Trustees Dinah Pinczower, Chairman National Board, YUWO
        TUROBINER-Alice. The Yeshivat Hakotel family mourns the passing of Alice, beloved wife of Harold. A Holocaust survivor, and a charming lady full of grace and always ready with a smile, Alice was a beautiful lady who built an equally beautiful and warm family. She was a woman deeply devoted to philanthrophic causes, and the greater family of Am Yisrael. Torah Judaism thrives in our Yeshiva because of her love and generosity, and many a talmid has walked in the shadow of her good deeds. May her memory be blessed and may all the members of Alice's family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Roshei HaYeshiva; HaRav Chaim Katz, HaRav Aharon Bina Rosh Kollelim Rennert; HaRav Yaakov Katz The Hanhala, Exec Dir Mr. Yitzchak Shtiglitz The Talmidim American Friends of YH; Exec Dir Ilana R. Scheiner
        TUROBINER-Alice. The Board of Directors, Officers and staff of The Jewish Guild for the Blind note with sadness the death of Alice Turobiner, beloved mother of Carol T. Finley, our esteemed colleague and fellow board member. We extend our sincerest condolences to Carol and her family. Joseph S. Mishkin, Chairman Alan R. Morse, President and CEO
        TUROBINER-Alice. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved mother of its devoted parent and benefactor, Ann Dachs, and extends heartfelt sympathy to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Prin. David N. Kahn, Ch. Bd. Trustees
      