
        KOPPELMAN-Dorothy, 82. Of Princeton, NJ on September 16, 2000. Cherished wife of Julius, beloved mother, grandmother, aunt, sister and friend. Dedicated communal leader and generous benefactor to a raft of civic and Jewish causes. She will be deeply missed by her children, grandchildren, sisters, brothers, sisters-in-law and their families, numerous nieces, nephews and friends. Born in New York City, Mrs. Koppelman was a resident of Princeton the past twenty-eight years. She was a graduate of the City College of New York. Mrs. Koppelman was former president of Lawrenceville Hadassah and Temple Avoda Sisterhood. She served on the board of directors for The Center for Jewish Life (Princeton), United Jewish Appeal, American Jewish Committee and its Leadership Council and Greenwood House. She served as a docent of the Princeton Historical Society, and principal of the Temple Micah Religious School and was a member of ORT and National Council of Jewish Women. She and her husband endowed the Holocaust Center at Rider College. Mrs. Koppelman taught religious school for over thirty years in several congregations and temples. Memberships include Congregation Avoda (Fairlawn, NJ), Shir Ami Bucks County Jewish Congregation (Newtown, Pa), Congregation Beth Chaim, B'nai Israel and Temple Micah (Lawrenceville, NJ). Daughter of the late Victor and Flora Barocas, she is survived by her husband of fifty-six years Julius, four daughters and three sons-in-law Estelle and Richard Blumberg of Ft. Lauderdale, Fla, Vicki and Howard Cabot of Phoenix, Arizona, Marcia and Colin Moor of South Natick, Mass Nancy Koppelman of Wynnewood, Pa, two brothers Ralph Barocas of Potomac, Maryland, Joseph Barocas of Delray Beach, Fla, three sisters Eleanor Pellman of New York City, Mathilda Friedman of Baltimore, Maryland, Rita Levin of Glen Rock, NJ, grandchildren Stacy and Sandy Blumberg, Heather, Melissa, Courtney & Tyler Cabot, Jennifer, Zachary and Taylor Moor, Gabriel Koppelman Siegal, sister-in-law Miriam Sandlofer. Services on Tuesday 11AM at Congregation Beth Chaim, Village Road, Princeton Junction, NJ. Period of mourning at the Koppelman residence Tuesday thru Thursday. Memorial contributions to Greenwood House, 53 Walter St., Trenton, NJ 08628, American Jewish Committee, 165 East 56th St., New York, NY 10022, United Jewish Federation, 3131 Princeton Pike, Lawrenceville, NJ 08648 or the Julius and Dorothy Koppelman Holocaust Resource Center, c/o Rider University, 2083 Lawrenceville Rd, Lawrenceville, NJ 08648. For more information Orland's Ewing Memorial Chapel, 609-883-1400.
        KOPPELMAN - Dorothy (Baro cas). A friendship from September 1936, the day we entered Baruch, among the first women to be admitted, has come to a sad end. A bright, active, devoted, charitable woman, Dotty will be greatly missed. Helen Hollinger Reiser
      