
        BRAILOVE-Mathilda F. The officers and staff of United Jewish Communities (UJC) deeply mourn the passing of Mathilda Brailove, a renowned local and national leader. Since the 1948 UJA study mission to Palestine, she always felt a deep sense of commitment to the State of Israel, and devoted much of her life on its behalf. Her love of the Jewish people was the source of her tireless efforts to raise funds for Israel and the Central Jersey Jewish Federation. As a lifelong supporter of UJA (the predecessor organization to UJC), Mrs. Brailove helped found the National Women's Constituency, and went on to become its president. Later, she became the chair of the Jewish Federation of Central New Jersey's Women's Division and was responsible for launching the federation's Lion of Judah program. In the early years of UJA, Mrs. Brailove devoted considerable time travelling across the country speaking about humanitarian and philanthropic initiatives. Her active role in federation, and her dedication to the Jewish people will be greatly missed. She has left a very rich legacy. Tens of thousands of people will benefit from her leadership and generosity for many years to come. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her daughters Susan and Linda, to her seven grandchildren and eight great grandchildren. May they be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Charles R. Bronfman, UJC Chairman of the Board Joel D. Tauber, UJC Chairman of the Exec. Comm Robert M. Schrayer, UJC Campaign/FRD National Chairman Ann-Louise Klepper UJC Chairman, Nat'l Women's Constituency Carole Solomon, UJC Campaign/FRD Pillar Committee Chairman Stephen D. Folender, UJC Pres & Chief Exec. Officer
        BRAILOVE-Mathilda F. The Israel Education Fund of United Jewish Communities mourns the passing of Mathilda Brailove and extends heartfelt condolences to the members of her family. Mathilda Brailove had been a longterm supporter of the Israel Education Fund and the children of Israel. Jane F. Sherman, President, Israel Education Fund Yitzchak Shavit, Vice-Pres., Israel Education Fund
      