
        DYSON-Anne E. Pediatrician and philanthropist, died Thursday, September 21, 2000, at the age of 52 after a year long battle with breast cancer. Since 1979, Anne E. Dyson had served as the President and Director of the Dyson Foundation, a family philanthropy founded in 1957 by her late parents, Margaret and Charles Dyson. Under her leadership, the Dyson Foundation has extensively funded many programs in the Mid-Hudson Valley of New York State, and has focused on improving the life opportunities and health of young children across the country. Dr. Dyson was a board-certified pediatrician, and held academic appointments at Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University, where she was a Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and at the University of Illinois College of Medicine. Dr. Dyson was a Director of the Dyson-Kissner-Moran Corporation, an international multi-industry holding company headquartered in New York City that was founded by her father in 1954. She served as the Chair of the Board of Directors of the Hole in the Wall Gang Fund, Inc., a camp for children with life-threatening illnesses. She was a Vice Chair of the Board of Overseers of the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University and was the Co-Chair of the Partnership for Children of the American Academy of Pediatrics. She was a member of the Board of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, and served as a member of the Board of Health of Dutchess County, New York. Dr. Dyson was educated at New York University and received her M.D. degree from New York Medical College in 1977. Her post-doctoral training included an internship at St. Christopher's Hospital in Philadelphia, residency training at Cornell Medical CenterNew York Hospital, a research fellowship at Rockefeller University and an infectious disease fellowship at Upstate Medical Center in Syracuse, NY. She was a Fellow of the American Academy of Pediatrics. Dr. Dyson is survived by her husband Michael S. Kramer, journalist and political commentator her sons Roberto Hull and Mac Hull, her stepson Ben Kramer, three brothers, Robert R. Dyson and his wife Emilie, John S. Dyson and his wife Kathe, and Peter L. Dyson and his wife Barbara, and their families, which include her nieces and nephews Leigh, Eliza, Christopher, Molly, Karen, Lisa, Brian and John. Dr. Dyson and her family lived in Millbrook, NY. Services and burial will be held at Grace Church, Franklin Avenue in Millbrook, New York on Tuesday, September 26, 2000 at 11:00 a.m. A memorial service will also be held in New York City at a later date. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to The Hole in the Wall Gang Camp in New Haven, Connecticut or the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, Massachusetts.
        DYSON-Anne E., M.D. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University and NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Anne E. Dyson, M.D. A beloved and gifted peditrician, Dr. Dyson joined the Department of Pediatrics at The New York HospitalCornell Medical Center in 1983. She was elected to the Board of Overseers of Cornell University Medical College in 1991 and, since 1997, had been serving as Vice Chair of the Board. Dr. Dyson also served as President and Trustee of the Dyson Foundation, the family philanthropy founded by her parents, Charles and Margaret Dyson. Under the leadership of Dr. Dyson, the Foundation in 1997 announced a major challenge grant to Weill Medical College which served as the catalyst for the successful conclusion of a $200-million capital campaign for basic science research. Gifts of the Dyson Foundation and family have also provided substantial support to the departments of pediatrics and ophthalmology at NewYork Weill Cornell Medical Center. In 1991, a generous Dyson Foundation gift made possible the establishment of The Margaret M. Dyson Vision Research Institute at Weill Cornell, which has pursued cutting-edge research in collaboration with Rockefeller University and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center to advance the understanding and treatment of vision disorders. Dr. Dyson's leadership and commitment to our institutions will have an enduring beneficial effect for the advancement of biomedical science. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Dr. Dyson's family.
        DYSON-Anne E., MD. Cornell University mourns the loss of a close friend and advisor, Anne E. Dyson, MD. Deeply committed to improving the lives of children in her native Dutchess County and throughout the nation, Dr. Dyson worked to expand medical services, nutrition, health care, and educational and cultural opportunities for young people through her leadership of the family's foundation. Dr. Dyson served as Vice Chair of the Board of Overseers of the Weill Medical College, to which she contributed superb leadership, and as a member of the Cornell University Council she was well-known throughout the Cornell community as the sister of two Cornell trustees, John and Robert Dyson. We will miss her friendship, kindness, and tireless efforts on behalf of the Weill Medical College and Cornell University. We express our sincere condolences to Dr. Dyson's husband, Michael Kramer; her sons, Roberto and Mac Hull; her step-son, Ben Kramer; and her brothers, John, Robert, and Peter Dyson. Harold Tanner, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Cornell University Hunter R. Rawlings III, President, Cornell University
        DYSON-Anne E., MD. The Eleanor Roosevelt Center at Val-Kill (ERVK) Board and Staff are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of Dr. Anne E. Dyson, pediatrician and President of The Dyson Foundation, of Millbrook, NY. Dr. Dyson received the 1998 Eleanor Roosevelt Val-Kill Medal, bestowed by ERVK on leading humanitarians. Anne's deep interest and concern for the well-being of children was manifest in her board service, philanthropies and career. In addition to her outstanding leadership of The Dyson Foundation, which generously supports ERVK's Girls' Leadership program, she was a member of the board of Paul Newman's Hole in the Wall Gang Fund and of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. The Hudson Valley, which benefited from her many charitable concerns, will miss one of its most beloved and respected daughters. ERVK expresses its sincere condolences to the Dyson family.
        DYSON-Anne E., M.D. The Board and staff of Planned Parenthood of the Mid-Hudson Valley, Inc. note with great sorrow the passing of Dr. Anne E. Dyson, pediatrician and President of the Dyson Foundation. Anne's commitment to children and women's health and the Dyson Foundation's special initiatives to assure the availability of reproductive health services have touched the lives of so many in our community. Under Anne's leadership, the Dyson Foundation's extraordinary generosity has enabled Planned Parenthood to serve women and families throughout the Mid-Hudson Valley. Our deepest condolences to the Dyson family.
        DYSON-Anne, M.D. The faculty and staff of the NYU Child Study Center mourn the loss of our dear friend, Anne Dyson, M.D. Children everywhere benefited from her generosity, as well as her passionate concern for their well being. We will miss her insight, friendship, wit and warmth. We send our deepest sympathy to her wonderful husband, Michael, and to her sons, Roberto and Mac. Harold S. Koplewicz, M.D. Arnold and Debbie Simon Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Director, Child Study Center at New York University School of Medicine
        DYSON-Anne. The Department of Pediatrics at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons acknowledges with great sorrow the passing of Anne Dyson, MD. Her work in pediatrics, especially in finding ways to reach children in need, is an inspiration to us. She will live on in the work of those she has inspired.
        DYSON-Anne E., M.D. In loving memory of Dr. Anne E. Dyson, a member of our Advisory Committee and an active and generous benefactor. Board of Directors and Staff of the Dutchess Land Conservancy Millbrook, N.Y.
      