
        DAVIES-Richard Lloyd. On Saturday, September 9, 2000, in Washington, DC, Richard Lloyd Davies, husband of the late Mary Margaret (Peggy) McKee Davies; father of two sons, The Rev. John David McKee Davies, his wife Susan Manypenny Davies, of Center Sandwich, NH, their three children, Martha Lindley Davies of Fairfax, VA, Elizabeth Davies Clark and her husband, Gregory Michael Clark, of San Francisco, CA, and Peter John Brindle Davies of Louisville, KY; and son, Richard Bonar Davies, his wife, Diane Andruszko Davies of Sandy, UT, their three children, Christopher Allen Davies and his wife , Cheryl Kallenberg Davies, of Sandy UT, Andrea Davies Stolfa and her husband, Chuck Stolfa, of Draper, UT, and Jennifer Lynn Davies-Ross and her husband, Christopher Matthew Ross, of Salt Lake City, UT; great-grandfather of Erin Elizabeth Clark, Michael Thomas Clark and Noel Margaret Clark of San Francisco, CA, Evan Davies Stolfa and Connor Davies Stolfa of Draper, UT; brother of Ted Davies and Dr. Dean Davies. Services will be held at Georgetown Presbyterian Church, 3115 P St., NW, Washington, DC, on Saturday, September 23, at 11 a.m. Interment private. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made in his name to a charity close to your heart. For more information contact Joseph Gawler's Sons, Washington, DC.
        DAVIES-Richard LLoyd. On Saturday, September 9th, 2000, in Washington, D.C., husband of the late Mary Margaret (Peggy) McKee Davies; father of two sons, The Reverend John David McKee Davies, his wife, Susan Manypenny Davies, of Center Sandwich, NH, their three children, Martha Lindley Davies of Fairfax, VA., Elizabeth Davies Clark and her husband, Gregory Michael Clark, of San Francisco, CA, and Peter John Brindle Davies of Louisville, KY; & son, Richard Bonar-Davies, his wife, Diane Andruszko Davies, of Sandy, UT, Andrea Davies Stolfa and her husband, Chuck DaviesRoss & her husband, Christopher Matthew Ross, of Salt Lake City, UT; great-grandfather of Erin Elizabeth Clark, Michael Thomas Clark and Noel Margaret Clark of San Francisco, CA, Evan Davies Stolfa and Connor Davies Stolfa of Draper, UT; brother of Ted Davies and Dr. Dean Davies. Services will be held at Georgetown Presbyterian Church, 3115 P Street, NW Washington, D.C. on Saturday, September 23, at 11 A.M. Interment private. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made in his name to a charity close to your heart. For information Joseph Gawler's Sons.
      