
        GORDON-Edward S. Funeral services will be Sunday, September 24, 10AM at K.J. Synagogue, 125 East 85 St., NY, NY. For information call 212-774-5600. In lieu of flowers the family requests that contributions be made to Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Attn: Dr. David Kelsen, Miller Transplant Institute at Mt. Sinai Hospital or Southampton Hospital Emergency Room, c/o Dr. Howard Sklarek.
        GORDON-Edward S. The Board of Governors, Members and Staff of the Real Estate Board of New York note with great sorrow the passing of Edward S. Gordon. As Founder of the Edward S. Gordon Comapny, Ed Gordon worked on some of the largest and most complex commercial real estate transactions in New York. In 1978 the Real Estate Board awarded Ed its ''Manhattan's Most Ingenius Broker of the Year'' award for the sale of 1166 Avenue of the Americas to Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association and the New York Telephone Company. A former Governor of the Real Estate Board, Ed was recognized by REBNY for his many charitable endeavors by receiving the Kenneth R. Gerretty Humanitarian Award. This year Ed Gordon was selected to receive the Louis Smadbeck Memorial Broker Recognition Award which honors a broker whose career distinctions include personal and professional integrity, long term leadership and prominence in the brokerage community. We offer our sincere condolences to Ed's wife Cheryl and the entire family. Bernard H. Mendik, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        GORDON-Edward S. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our profound sorrow at the passing of Edward S. Gordon, and to extend our deepest condolences to his family. He left an indelible mark on our industry. He will be sorely and forever missed, although his legacy will live on. The Principals of Newmark & Company Real Estate Inc. Aaron Gural Jeffrey Gural Barry M. Gosin James Kuhn Arthur H. Lerner Ronald E. Goldberger William G. Cohen Arthur Rosenbloom Marlene Post David A. Falk Neil A. Goldmacher Scott M. Panzer Brian S. Waterman
        GORDON-Edward S. We mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and client, with whom we have had the privilege of being associated for nearly three decades. Eddie's contribution to New York City as we know it is legendary. However, his true legacy is his warmth, sense of humor and zest for life. Our heartfelt condolences to Eddie's family. He will be sorely missed. Blank Rome Tenzer Greenblatt LLP
        GORDON-Edward. The members of the Young Men's/Women's Real Estate Association of New York wish to express their profound sorrow and loss with the passing of one of its former chairmen. He was a leader and visionary in the real estate community and we will remember him for his wisdom, strength and dedication. The members extend their deepest condolences to his family.
        GORDON-Edward S. Donald J. Trump mourns the loss of his dear friend and colleague, Edward S. Gordon. Ed was a brilliant businessman and strategist who became enormously successful, yet also was a man of great principle and honor--a true gentleman! He will be greatly missed! My deepest condolences to his devoted wife Cheryl and the entire Gordon family on this very sad occasion.
        GORDON-Edward S. It is with our fondest memories that we mourn the passing of our dearest friend Edward S. Gordon. Eddie was ''one of a kind'' and when he was born they ''threw the mold away.'' We will always remember the wonderful times that we shared with Ed and Cheryl, and we will forever cherish our friendship. Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol
        GORDON-Edward. The Executive Committee and staff of Forest Electric Corp mourn the loss of Edward Gordon, a friend of all industries. He will be sorely missed. Our sympathies go out to his wonderful wife Shirley who has always been by his side. Forest Electric Corp. Philip Altheim, Chairman/CEO Howard Hirsch, President
        GORDON-Edward S. The partners and staff of Anchin Block & Anchin, LLP are deeply saddened by the loss of their client and friend, Edward S. Gordon. His energy and creativity made him a true visionary in the real estate world. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Cheryl; his children, Robin and Kenneth, and his brother, Allan.
        GORDON-Edward S. An irreplaceable part of our lives has disappeared with the passing of our dearest friend Eddie. His humor, his caring and his contagious laughter will not be part of our days anymore. Cheryl, Robin and Ken, we are sharing your deepest sorrow in this time of bereavement. With our love, Ornella and Bobby
        GORDON-Edward S. Like many of us in the industry, you gave me my first opportunity in the real estate business. You've left an indelible mark on my life and in many respects, I've modeled myself professionally after you. My heart aches for your family, who lost such a dyanamic father and husband. Billy Cohen
        GORDON-Edward S. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of fellow member, friend and neighbor Edward. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Cheryl, his children Kenneth and Robin, his mother Laura, brother Allan and his grandchildren. Robert E. Morrow, President Harvey L. Radler, Secretary
        GORDON-Edward S. Brause Realty Inc. deeply mourns the passing of our valued friend and confidant. Ed's foresight has been a guiding force in the development of the real estate business and will be part of his legacy. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to ''Uncle Eddie's'' family. David A. Brause, Vice President
        GORDON-Edward S. The LeFrak Family deeply mourns the loss of a longtime friend and associate. He was a wise and devoted business advisor and a trusted and highly principled colleague. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to his family.
        GORDON-Edward S. Eddie, my friend, my mentor, and for 16 years my partner. You always told everyone that you would go to heaven because of everything you did for Ronnie. I hope and pray that you were right. Bon voyage. Ronnie Goldberger
        GORDON-Edward S. We mourn the loss of our leader and friend. We extend to his wife Cheryl and his entire family our heartfelt condolences. Michael Laginestra Scott and Robin Gottlieb
        GORDON-Edward S. We sadly mourn the loss of an innovator, motivator and artist of the deal. Ed Gordon was a true NY landmark. We will miss him. Roxanne Donovan and the Great Ink Communications Team
        GORDON-Edward S. Ruth and Louis Brause and children mourn with great sadness the passing of Edward Gordon, our dear and devoted friend. He will be greatly missed by all of us. Our deepest condolences to the entire family.
        GORDON-Edward S. The laughter, warmth and friendship we have shared will live in our hearts. You were so special. Our love and condolences to your wonderful Cheryl, Robin, Kenny and Alan. Susan and Howard Kaskel
        GORDON-Edward S. It is with the most profound sense of sadness that we say goodbye to our dear friend Eddie. He was a true and loyal friend and we will sorely miss him. Sig & Jay Zises and Family
        GORDON-Ed. Great friend, fun competitor and true professional. You will be saddly missed, but never forgotten. Seena Stein & Newmark & Co Real Estate of New Jersey
        GORDON-Edward S. E.S.G., it was a privilege to have known a man of such wisdom, wit and warmth. My most heartfelt condolences to Cheryl, Robin & the entire family. Ed Hollander
        GORDON-Edward S. Our darling Eddie-thoughts of you will always make us smile. We will miss you so much. Marsha and Richard Goldberg and Family
        GORDON-Edward S. Peter and Mary Kalikow mourn the passing of our good friend Ed Gordon and would like to send condolences to his wife Cheryl, daughter Robin and son Kenneth.
        GORDON-Ed. The officers and employees of Grubb & Ellis New York, Inc. mourn the passing of a real estate legend and offer our condolences to his family.
        GORDON-Edward S. Axel Stawski extends his deepest sympathy to the family of Edward S. Gordon, a longtime friend and a giant in our city.
        GORDON-Edward S. Ed, you were a great man and a very special friend. We will miss you and never forget you. Pat and Johnny Magliocco
        GORDON-Edward S. Mentor, friend and inspirational leader-you will be greatly missed. Brian D. Gell
      