
        BORN-Robert W. Cherished husband of Esther Born; devoted father of Rita and Fred Distenfeld, and Richard and Deborah Born, and loving grandfather of Michael, Caroline, Jennifer, Claire, and Max. We mourn the passing of our irreplaceable husband, father, and grandfather. He made each of our days special with his warmth, wisdom and wonderful humor, and will remain forever in our hearts. Shiva will be observed at the Born residence.
        BORN-Robert. We mourn the loss of our cousin and very dear friend Bob who will always live in our hearts. We will miss his friendship, sense of humor, and wise thoughts. Bob was always a true gentleman with a kind heart and a brilliant business mind who deeply cherished his family. Our deepest condolences to his devoted wife Esther, his loving children Rita and Fred, Richard and Debbie, his dear grandchildren Michael, Claire, Caroline, Jenny, and Max, and to the entire family. John Klein Ruth, Fred, Evan, Jason Schwalbe
        BORN-Robert. Husband, father, grandfather and friend. I will miss you. You were my friend, my brother-in-law and always there when I needed you. I know my sister, your children and grandchildren will be guided throughout their lives by your wisdom and strength. You were admired and respected by many. Your legacy of decency will remain a model for those whose lives you touched. You have have given me a lifetime of good memories. With love, Barbara and Harry
        BORN-Robert. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns the passing of a man of conscience and humility, Robert Born, whose Holocaust experience made him understand the struggle on behalf of human rights, religious freedom, and tolerance. To his devoted wife Esther, children Richard and Deborah, Rita and Fred, grandchildren, and the entire family, our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Reverend Joseph O'Hare S.J., V.P. Dr. David H.C. Read, V.P.
        BORN-Robert. Friends of Israel Defense Forces mourn the loss of our member of the Dinner Organizing Committee of our yearly event. Bob was a very dedicated supporter of the Israeli soldiers who will miss him very much. Our deepest condolences to his dear wife Esther, his children, grandchildren, and the entire family. Brigadier General Eliezer Hemeli John Klein and The Dinner Organizing Committee
        BORN-Robert. Park East Synagogue and Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School mourn the death of a devoted friend and benefactor, Robert Born. Deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Esther, children Richard and Deborah, Rita and Fred, grandchildren, and the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice-President Jack Rosen, Vice-President
        BORN-Robert. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved father of our devoted trustees, benefactors, and school leaders, Rita Distenfeld and Richard Born. We extend heartfelt sympathy to their mother and to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman Board of Trustees
        BORN-Robert. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun mourns the passing of the revered father of its devoted members, Rita Distenfeld and Richard Born. We extend heartfelt sympathy to their mother and to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Chaim Edelstein, President
        BORN-Robert ''Bob.'' Holocaust survivor, beloved husband, father, grandfather and business partner. We wish to express our heartfelt sadness at the passing of our lifelong friend. His incredible kindness, knowledge and sense of humor enriched our lives and will be greatly missed. Our sincere condolences to his family. The Erlich and Pruzansky families
        BORN-Robert. We deeply mourn the passing of Bob Born, loyal and generous supporter of our organization, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Esther, our dedicated Board member, to his children, Rita and Richard and to the entire family. Re'uth Ursula Merkin, Chairman Rosa Strygler, President
        BORN-Robert. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its devoted and esteemed member, beloved husband of Esther, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi David Yagoda, Chairman William Schwartz, President
        BORN-Robert. We mourn the loss of our longtime dear friend and associate. Our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife, children and grandchildren. Helen Erlich Shelley and Steven Holm Senia and Mark Feiner and families
        BORN-Robert. To the family of Robert Born we express our deepest sympathy. We will miss him very much. Edek & Mirra Erlich & Family
      