
        TAVCAR-Lawrence R., 64. A longtime senior public relations executive who was an expert in preparing corporate annual reports, died on August 24 at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital, near his home in Stamford. He managed or was involved in the production of 80 annual reports, sometimes drafting the messages of chief executive officers. Mr. Tavcar was a consultant working from an office in his home since 1990. As a consultant and, earlier, as an account executive, he served such clients as AT&T, Automatic Data Processing, Coca-Cola Bottling, Engelhard, Firestone, H.J. Heinz, McGrawHill, Reader's Digest, Scott Paper, C.I.T. Financial Corporation, and Unilever. In the late 1980's, he was senior director for corporate communications for Paramount Communications, formerly Gulf+Western. From 1978 to 1984, he was a senior vice president of the Carl Byoir & Associates, then the third largest public relations firm in the country. An annual report that he prepared as a consultant to Engelhard received an award from the National Association of Investors Corporation as one of the best from an investor's perspective. ''A masterful job,'' said the judges. Another citation for his work on annual reports, hailed his performance with the comment: ''Of all the talents in the field, none do we respect more than Lawrence R. Tavcar...Not only does he produce good work...but he's one of the industry's true thinkers.''At Paramount, his last corporate position before becoming a consultant, Mr. Tavcar produced six annual reports and was responsible for analyst and annual meeting presentations. The company's reports received awards from ''Institutional Investor'' magazine. He also directed the creation and publication of ONE, the company's quarterly magazine. ''Using spectacular graphics and sheer showmanship,'' the ''Public Relations Handbook'' said, the magazine ''achieves a dazzling impact...as attractive in content as in style.'' He played an instrumental communications role during the company's restructuring from a quintessential conglomerate with farranging operations into an international leader in entertainment (Paramount Pictures) and publishing (Simon & Schuster). Paramount was acquired by Viacom in 1994. As an account executive at Carl Byoir, Mr. Tavcar handled the public relations involved in the recall of the Firestone 500 tire, then the largest product recall in history, an incident that has reverberations in another Firestone recall that is taking place today. Also, early in his career, he conducted some of the research that demonstrated the increasing importance of institutional investors. Thus, when the New York Stock Exchange established its Institutional Investors Department, he was appointed assistant manager. In addition to his specialization in annual reports, Mr. Tavcar during his career managed projects involving corporate magazines, employee information programs, speech writing, and marketing. He won more than 20 awards from professional associations for his work. Mr. Tavcar frequently retained responsibility for the writing end of public relations projects, an activiity often delegated to writing specialists. His writing extended over a broad array of business products, testament to his undergraduate education in journalism and his lifelong appreciation of stellar articles that appeared in newspapers and magazines. Mr. Tavcar was a member of the Public Relations Society of America and served on its honors and awards committee for four years. He also was a member of the National Investor Relations Institute, the International Association of Business Communicators, the Society of Professional Journalists, and the Fairfield County (Conn.) Public Relations Association. He was a former contributing editor of the Corporate Communications Report and the Corporate Annual Report Newsletter and a contributor to many newsletters in the public relations and communications fields. Mr. Tavcar, who was born and raised in Cleveland, maintained a devotion to the Cleveland Browns football team and the Cleveland Indians baseball team through a lifetime spent mostly in the Northeast. He was a graduate of Ohio Universtiy and retained a lifelong loyalty to his alma mater. He served on the board of directors of its national alumni association, as a member of the advisory board to the university's E.W. Scripps School of Journalism, and as president of Ohio University's Greater New York Alumni Chapter. He received two service awards from the university. Mr. Tavcar leaves his wife, Denise, and two sons, Bret of Stamford, and Erik of Arlington, Va. He also leaves four sisters, Francis Tavcar, Dorothy Tavcar, Marge Conetsco, and Pauline Debevec, all of Cleveland, and a brother, Thomas, of Birmingham, Ala. A ceremony celebrating Lawrence Tavcar's life will be held at 6 P.M. on September 23 at the Bruce Museum, 1 Museum Drive, Greenwich. Directions are available from the museum at 203-869-0376. Contributions in memory of Lawrence R. Tavcar may be made to CAP Cure (for the cure of prostate cancer) at 1250 Fourth Street, Suite 360, Santa Monica, CA 90401. Contributions may also be made to the Lawrence R. Tavcar Memorial Scholarship Fund at the Ohio University Foundation, P.O. Box 869, Athens, OH. 45701.
      