
        BERNHEIM-Leonard H., Jr. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with great sorrow the passing of Leonard Bernheim, Jr., a vice president of JBFCS. For more than 30 years Leonard had been a devoted trustee and leader of JBFCS and for many years a chair of its Investment Committee. Leonard's dedication to community service followed in the footsteps of his parents, Leonard and Elinor, who were leaders of the Jewish Family Service, a predecessor agency of JBFCS, and the New York community. His commitment to helping troubled adolescents, most recently as co-chair of our Youth Counseling League Divisional Committee, and his earlier chairmanship of the Westside School, has been critical to the agency's expansion and enhancement of services. His diligence as vice chair of the Budget and Finance Committee has ensured a level of fiscal responsibility and foresight that keeps the agency at the forefront of the mental health profession. His co-chairmanship of the Capital Campaign protects the agency's financial strength and sustains its ability to provide the highest quality of services. Leonard's gentle manner, strong commitment, generosity and firm belief in the agency's responsibility to serve all those who need our help was respected by board and staff alike. His legacy will continue to inspire us and he will be missed. Leonard loved his family dearly and we offer our sincere condolences to his wife, Stephanie, his daughters, Erica and Claudia, and her husband, Leo Raphaely, his brother, Charles, and his entire family. Seymour R. Askin, Jr., Chairman of the Board Joseph S. Kaplan, President Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive Vice President
        BERNHEIM-Leonard H., Jr. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Leonard H. Bernheim, Jr., a cherished friend of the Jewish community who touched the lives of countless individuals through his generosity and leadership. He was greatly admired for his humanitarian efforts on behalf of UJA-Federation and our network of beneficiary agencies. As a member of our Wall Street Division, Mr. Bernheim shared a deep devotion to Jewish causes with his brother, Charles. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mr. Bernheim's beloved wife, Stephanie; his daughter, Erica; his daughter and son-in-law, Claudia Bernheim and Leo Raphaely; Charles and his wife, Rachel; and the entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        BERNHEIM-Leonard H., Jr. The Divisional Committee and Staff of the Youth Counseling League note with great sadness the passing of Leonard Bernheim, Jr., co-chair and dedicated friend to YCL, a division of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services. Leonard's commitment to the work of YCL ennabled us to serve more youngsters with expanded services and innovative programming. He will be greatly missed by all of us. Our deepest condolences to Stephanie and the entire Bernheim family. Mrs. David T. Schiff Mrs. Lewis B. Frumkes Co-Chairs, JBSCF Youth Counseling League Division
        BERNHEIM-Leonard. The employees of The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. note with profound sorrow the passing of Leonard Bernheim, a valued colleague and friend. He will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved him. We wish to extend our deepest condolences to his family and friends.
      