
        JARCHO-Saul, MD. On September 10, 2000. Survived by his wife, Irma S., his sons, Tom and Andrew, four grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Also survived by his sister, Grace J. Ross and many nephews and nieces. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 79 PM. Funeral service on Wednesday, 10 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the New York Academy of Medicine, 1216 5th Ave., NYC 10029 or the National Library of Medicine, 8600 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD.
        JARCHO - Saul, M.D. The Trustees, Fellows and staff of The New York Academy of Medicine record with sorrow the death of Saul Jarcho, a distinbuished physician, a leading historian of medicine, and broad-ranging scholar. Elected to Fellowship in the Academy in 1940, he remained vigorously and effectively engaged in its activities for nearly sixty years, including the publication of his last book under Academy auspices just a month before he died. He served as Chairman of the Library Committee for a number of years, and as President of the Friends of the Rare Book Room. He was Editor-in-Chief of the Bulletin of the New York Academy of Medicine from 1967 to 1976. Throughout his association with the Academy, he lent remarkable intelligence, devotion to high standards of scholarship and a sparkling understated wit to its procedings. The Academy extends its deep sympathies to his wife, Irma, and the rest of the family. Stanley Brezenoff, Chairman, Board of Trustees Jeremiah A. Barondess, M.D., President
        JARCHO-Saul, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. Dr. Jarcho served Mount Sinai for over fifty years as a clinician and teacher and has served humanity as a world renowned historian of medicine. In 1970, the Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacob Medallion, to Dr. Jarcho in acknowledgement of his profound professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the Medical Center and the Alumni. A caring and beloved physician, he will be missed. Our sincere condolences are extended to his entire family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, M.D., Treasurer
        JARCHO-Saul, M.D. Dr. Saul Jarcho's extraordinary intelligence and goodness, his indomitable spirit and fortitude, and his wonderful sense of humor continue to inspire us. His reputation as a compassionate human being, a fastidious scholar and the ultimate ''gentleman'' is legendary. Our lives have been touched and enriched by his presence and his friendship. Our hearfelt condolences to Irma, Tom, Andrew and the rest of his family. Bunny and Bud Hauser, M.D.
      