
        BRAILOVE-Mathilda F. On September 12 at home in Elizabeth, N.J. Beloved wife of the late Dr. S. Alexander Brailove, mother of Susan Brailove, Linda Kneucker and the late Marjorie Horowitz. Grandmother of seven and great grandmother of eight. A founder of the modern Jewish movement, Mrs. Brailove worked passionately and tirelessly for Israel and for Jews around the world as a fund raiser and global activist for the United Jewish Appeal from the 1930's through the 1980's. Mrs. Brailove helped rally opposition against Hitler during the Holocaust and was a member of the first UJA delegation to visit Israel after the state was formed in 1948. After the war, she helped oppressed Jews around the world emigrate to Israel and the United States. In 1950, she was named Chairman of the National Women's Division of the UJA and was a host of Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion's visit to the U.S. A funeral will be held Thursday at 11 A.M. from the Higgins-Bonner Funeral Home, 414 Westminster Ave, Elizabeth. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the UJA Israel Education Fund for the Mathilda F. Brailove Kindergarten in Bersheva, 111 8th Ave, Suite 11E, NYC 10011.
        BRAILOVE-Mathilda. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of the Jewish Federation of Central New Jersey express deep sorrow at the passing of Mathilda Brailove of Elizabeth, NJ, a national and local leader and early spokeswoman for the State of Israel. Mathilda dedicated her entire life to supporting Israel and Jewish causes. She played a leading role in the creation of UJA in the 1940's, and went on to become president of the national Women's Campaign and then chair of Central NJ's Women's Division. Mathilda Brailove-a woman whose life was driven by her love of the Jewish people. Our heartfelt condolences to her daughters, Suzan Brailove of Manhattan, Linda Kneuker of Vienna, Austria, and the late Majorie Horowitz, seven grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Alf Gelfond, President Toby Goldberger, Campaign Chair Joseph Wilf, Hon. Campaign Chair Cathy Tabak, Women's Campaign President Renee Golush and Gerald Staffin, Endowment Co-Chairs Stanley H. Stone, Exec. VP.
      