
        LAVITT-Sanford (Sandy) Mark. Of Woodbury L.I. on October 15, 2000. Beloved husband of Arlene. Devoted father of Jason and Keith. Loving brother of Carole Adler, Thelma Rosenberg and Arthur Lavitt. Funeral service 11AM today, Midway Jewish Center, Syosset, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to charity. The two organizations Sandy was most involved with are SCOPE-Summer Camp Opportunities Provide An Edge, 1375 Broadway, New York, NY 10018 and United Jewish Appeal, 6900 Jericho Tpk, Syosset, NY 11791. Sandy was a very special person who will be deeply missed for his strength, courage, humor and consideration of others.
        LAVITT-Sanford. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Sanford Lavitt, a cherished friend and long-time supporter of our mission. Sandy was a committed leader in our Long Island Building Materials Division, sharing his values and commitment with his children and colleagues. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Arlene, and their children, Jason and his wife, Michelle, and Keith. May his memory be a blessing. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair Arthur M. Katz, LI Cabinet Chair John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Simon Kaminetsky, LI Regional Director
        LAVITT-Sanford. Sandy, you have been our friend and mentor and a positive influence on our lives. You have exemplified the qualities of compassion, integrity and generosity so unique in today's world. We shall never forget the good will which motivated your many thoughtful acts of kindness. Mere words cannot adequately express our profound sense of personal loss at your untimely passing. Our hearts go out to Arlene and your children, Jason and Michelle, Keith and Lisa, who we hope and pray will be sustained by their fond memories of your lives together. Marilyn and Stuart Fox
        LAVITT-Sanford. (Sandy). The Meltzer family and employees of Triangle Building Products Corp. deeply regret the passing of a friend and associate. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his wife, Arlene, and the rest of his family. He was an industry leader, a man of distinction and integrity, and an active supporter of philanthropic endeavors. He will be greatly missed.
        LAVITT-Sanford. Bloom Hochberg & Co. mourns the death of our friend, Sandy. His vision and enthusiasm will be sorely missed. We extend our condolences to the entire Lavitt family.
      