
        MENSCH - Constance (nee Giobbe). On Oct. 22, 2000. Beloved wife of Homer. Loving sister of Susan Dull. Dear cousin of Gloria Ficalora. President of the Board of Trustees, The Dalcroze School of Music, President of The Bohemians, Chairman of the Young Artists' Committee of the Musicians' Club of New York. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Wednesday 2-5 & 7-9 PM with service Thursday, 1:30 PM. Interment to follow at Mount Saint Mary's Cemetery, Flushing, N.Y. Contributions in her memory may be made to The Dalcroze School of Music, or the Musicians' Foundation of the Musicians' Club of New York.
        MENSCH-Constance. The Board of Trustees and Administration of the Dalcroze School of Music are saddened by the passing of our esteemed Board President. She was our dear friend, colleague and leader. Her dedication to the Dalcroze work and her many students will stand as an everlasting inspiration. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Homer, and to the bereaved family. Dr. Dorothy Indenbaum, Chairman Dalcroze School of Music Board of Trustees Yana Joseph, Executive Director
        MENSCH - Constance. The Trustees and administration of the InterSchool Orchestras of New York celebrate the wonderful life of our Trustee Constance Mensch and deeply mourn her loss. Connie did so much for so many. She was always active, an irreplaceable font of wisdom, humor, compassion, and vast connections. Known to the ISO as ''The Diamond Dynamo'', her energy, vision, and perspective kept us ever moving forward. Our sympathy and condolences go to her husband, Homer, and to her sister, Sue.
        MENSCH-Constance. The Musicians Club of New York mourns the death of its esteemed Board member and mentor, Constance Mensch. Her commitment and service to the encouragement of young artists was invaluable and her passing leaves a genuine void. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her loving husband, Homer Mensch, and devoted sister, Susan Dull. Bruce L. Kubert, President The Musicians Club of New York
      