
        LIVERANT-Israel E. ''Zeke''. Antiques dealer of Colchester, husband of Joanna Liverant, passed away peacefully Sunday, (October 8, 2000) at his home. He was born November 26, 1916 in Colchester, where he resided his entire life. Zeke served in the Army during World War II. He was the son of the late Nathan & Esther Liverant. He is survived by two daughters and sons-in-law, Linda and Donald Barger of New Albany, OH, and Abby and Richard Gerrity of Sarasota, FL. He is also survived by a son and daughter-in-law, Arthur and Gigi Liverant of Colchester. Zeke enjoyed seven grandchildren, Neill, Charity & Austin Barger, Hannah and Samara Liverant, and Ryan and Sloane Gerrity. He is survived by a sister, Pearl Vogel; and two brothers, Abraham and Philip. He was predeceased by a sister, Ruth Feir Peck; and two brothers, Benjamin and Samuel. He was also predeceased by his wife, Sylvia. He was the second of a three-generation, nationally known, antiques business in Colchester. He was respected in the field of American Antiques. He was a retired board member of the Antiquarian and Landmarks Society and the Lyman Allyn Museum. Zeke was also a member of the Antiques Dealer Association and the Appraisers Association of America. He was an active member of the Colchester community, serving as the founder of the Colchester Historical Society, a retired member of the Bacon Academy Board of Trustees, and long-term board member and officer of Congregation Ahavath Achim. Funeral services will be held at 11 A.M., on Tuesday, October 10, at the Congregation Ahavath Achim Synagogue on Lebanon Avenue in Colchester. Rabbi Kenneth Alter officiating. Shiva will be observed by the family on Tuesday, at the home of the deceased, at 12 Buckley Hill Road; and Wednesday and Thursday at the home of Arthur and Gigi Liverant at 43 School Road. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Bacon Academy Board of Trustees, the Colchester Historical Society, Congregation Ahavath Achim, the Cragin Memorial Library, or a charity of the donor's choice.
        LIVERANT-Israel (Zeke). If there were a saint in our religion, Zeke would certainly qualify. He lived a life of accomplishment. He gave loyalty, warmth and friendship to us and to countless others. His contribution to the field of American antiques and to treasured lifetime friendship will never be forgotten..Our sympathies go out to Joanna, Arthur and their families. Albert and Robert Sack
      