
        GOLDBERG-Arthur M. Untimely passing on October 19, 2000. Arthur was a loving father, husband and brother and beloved grandfather who will live in our hearts forever. Arthur was an extraordinary man who provided warmth, leadership and inspiration to all those whose lives he touched. He will be remembered for his dedication to his family, loyalty to his friends, his business acumen and his numerous philanthropic endeavors. Arthur was internationally renowned for his corporate leadership and vision, most recently as the chief executive of Park Place Entertainment, the world's largest gaming company. At the time of his passing, he was a board member of Villanova Law School, his alma mater, Cardozo Law School, Presbyaterian Hospital and The New York and Presbyterian Hospitals. Arthur was a hero to the many who will cherish his memory long after his passing. He died much too soon of complications arising from bone marrow failure. Arthur is survived by his wife Veronica, his four children, six grandchildren and brother Gary. Interment will be private. The family will be receiving friends at the Arthur Goldberg family residence from 4-8PM on Friday and 2-8PM on Saturday. Gifts in his memory can be made to The Fund for Johns Hopkins Medicine, Attention: Arthur M. Goldberg Memorial Fund, 1620 Mc Elderry Street, Baltimore, MD. 21205. GOLDBERG-Arthur. Was a man of extraordinary energy, commitment and vision. His zest for life and the sense of excitement he brought to running and growing his business was unmatched. I was blessed to have known him for almost a decade. He was a friend and inspiration to me and the people of the MWW Group. We will miss him. Michael W. Kempner and the entire staff of The MWW Group. GOLDBERG-Arthur, Dear Arthur, You were such an important part of our lives. Our memories of you will never be forgotten. ''Relay'', we will miss you. Our thoughts and prayers are with Ronnie, Kerry and Tarek, Wendy and Derek, Jody and Ed, and Michael. Much love, Lisa and Manny Pearlman
      