
        MULLANE-Ed, who continued as owner and operator of Mullane Ford and as President of the Ford Dealers' Alliance until his last days, died on October 7, 2000, at his home in Paramus, NJ. He died of pulmonary complications, the residual effects of polio, which had kept him hospitalized for a year as a youth over seventy years ago. The Captain of the Hackensack High School football team, Ed subsequently graduated from Fordham University in 1935, and successfully ran his own business for over sixty years. Mullane Ford in Bergenfield, NJ, has always been noted for the highest quality customer service, and has thrived on repeat business. He was known as a maverick and highly principled advocate for the independent dealer, creating and leading the Ford Dealers' Alliance (FDA) in order to promote dealer and consumer interests in dealings with Ford Motor Company. Over the years Ed gave speeches in every state and was known for his fiery rhetoric in promoting the FDA. He also testified before legislative committees at both the federal and state levels, and his comments on industry issues have been broadcast by all the networks and published in the N.Y. Times and other major news media. Through his efforts major changes were achieved to bring more equity for dealers with regard to warranty reimbursement rates, fleet subsidies, parts prices and other issues. While he was often at odds with Ford policies, he developed friendships with several top Ford executives, including Lee Iaococa and Ben Bidwell. As Bidwell said in admiration, ''After Ed was made, they threw away the mold.'' In 1977 he was awarded the Distinguished Service Citation by the AOT, a leading automotive trade association. He was honored as one of the most influential people in the automotive industry over the last fifty years. Ed often used great quotations in his speeches, and this one from Edmund Burke best captures Ed's spirit: ''The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.'' This is how he lived his life; he believed one man could make a difference, and he succeeded in making that difference. Ed's wife Ruth passed away in 1996. He is survived by his brother Bill of Oradell, NJ, his daughter Mary Alice Hill and her husband Bob of Summit, NJ, his son Michael Mullane and his wife Sarah of Park Ridge, NJ. Adored grandfather of seven grandchildren, Susan, Paul, Jennifer, Ryan, Erin, Elizabeth and Liam. Also survived by one great-grandson Abraham. Family will receive friends at the Beaugard Funeral Home, 869 Kinderkamack Rd., River Edge, NJ 07661, on Tuesday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass Wednesday, 10 AM, at St. Mary's R.C. Church in Closter. Interment is at George Washington Memorial Park Cemetery in Paramus, NJ. In lieu of flowers donations are requested in Ed's memory to Interweave Center, 31 Woodland Ave, Summit, NJ 07901, or St. Mary's Parish School, 20 Legion Place, Closter, NJ 07624.
      