
        GOLDBERG-Arthur M. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons, and the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the passing of our great friend and esteemed Hospital Trustee, Arthur M. Goldberg. Mr. Goldberg became a Trustee of The Presbyterian Hospital in 1996. When it merged with The New York Hospital in 1998, he became a Trustee of the merged institution, serving as Co-Chair of the Human Resources Committee. He was a man of great warmth, vision and courage, who was unfailingly devoted to the support of medical education, research and patient care. Mr. Goldberg's wise counsel and guidance were invaluable. He was much loved and will be truly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, children, and grandchildren.
        GOLDBERG-Arthur M. On October 19, 2000. The Board of Commissioners of The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey expresses its profound sympathy at the untimely death of our former colleague. Appointed to the Board in 1991, he served tirelessly on behalf of the people of New York and New Jersey until 1994. The employees of the Port Authority join us in extending deepest condolences to his entire family.
        GOLDBERG - Arthur. Jerold Glassman, Harold Hoffman, Desi Massey, Stephen Ploscowe, and Ted Eisenberg and the entire staff of Grotta, Glassman & Hoffman, P.A. mourn the passing of our long time friend and colleague, Arthur Goldberg. Our sincerest sympathies are extended to his wife, Veronica, his children, grandchildren and brother, Gary.
        GOLDBERG - Arthur. Devoted friend and client whose passion, excitement and dedication to his work and charitable endeavors was surpassed by his vision. We were fortunate to have the pleasure of knowing and working with him. Finkel Goldstein Berzow Rosenbloom & Nash, LLP
        GOLDBERG-Arthur. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Arthur Goldberg. We'll miss you, Arthur. Our profound condolences to his wife Ronnie, his children and grandchildren. Bill and Earle Mack
        GOLDBERG-Arthur. Arthur was a good guy. Honorable and trustworthy, whose word was his bond. We'll all miss him. Harriet and Dan Dorfman.
      