
        LIPPMAN-Rabbi Charles David. The leadership and staff of the Beth Israel Medical Center family join with its Department of Pain Medicine and Palliative Care and the Jacob Perlow Hospice in acknowledging with great sadness the untimely death of our beloved friend and devoted colleague, Charles D. Lippman, Rabbi and Senior Chaplain for Jacob Perlow Hospice. Rabbi Lippman's generosity of heart and spirit that extended to his patients and our staff will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his longterm partner, Alan Frank, his parents, Hy and Elly Lippman, his brother Robert and loved ones. Chuck's death is a tremendous loss to the medical community and we will miss his presence among us. Alan R. Batkin, Chairman, Board of Trustees, Jacob Perlow Hospice Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO, Beth Israel Russell Portenoy, M.D. Chairman, Dept. of Pain Medicine and Palliative Care Paul Brenner, Director, Jacob Perlow Hospice LIPPMAN-Rabbi Charles David. The staff of the Jacob Perlow Hospice mourns the unexpected death of our Senior Chaplain, Rabbi Charles David Lippman. We will miss the gentleness of his humor, the wisdom and understanding that he brought to difficult situations, and his unerring ability to work with patients and their families at the time of death. Chuck was a man of great gifts and warmth and he taught us a great deal about life and living. We express our sympathy to his partner, Alan Frank, to his parents, Hy and Elly Lippman, to his brother Robert and to their families. We have lost a wonderful colleague and friend. The staff and volunteers of Jacob Perlow Hospice LIPPMAN-Charles D. The congregation of the Park Avenue Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) shares in the mourning of the death of Rabbi Charles D. Lippman, D.D. We will keep our friends of the Temple of Universal Judaism in our prayers and our hearts extend to Chuck's beloved partner Alan Frank. Rev. Dr. Suzanne Webb, Interim Minister Rev. Dr. Richard Sturm, Moderator LIPPMAN-Rabbi, Dr. Charles D. Suddenly on October 18, 2000 in his 55th year. Cherished life partner of Alan G. Frank. Beloved son of Hy and Elly. Adoring brother of Robert and his wife Rita and the late Florence L. Petrus. Loving uncle of Jeffrey, Jeremy, Matthew and David. Services Sunday, October 22, 1:15 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Please make contributions to the charity of your choice in Chuck's name. LIPPMAN-Rabbi Charles D. The entire family of The HealthCare Chaplaincy mourns the sudden death of its esteemed and beloved colleague. Chuck embodied in his life and ministry an astute and sensitive care for the whole person. We extend our prayerful sympathy to all who loved him. William G. Spears, Chairman The Rev. Dr. Walter J. Smith, S.J., President & CEO
      