
        HONSINGER-Leroy Vernon, Rear Admiral, died at the Masonic Geriatric Healthcare Center in Wallingford on Sunday, October 1, 2000 after a short illness. Recently turned 95, he had lived at 4303 Ashlar Village for the last eight and one-half years. He also had lived in Southbury, CT for eighteen years. Admiral Honsinger was born September 5, 1905, the second of five children of Dr. Frederick S. and Evalina Vernon Honsinger. Named for his maternal grandfather, he was widely known by the nickname given by his father-Mike. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1927 and received the Master of Science degree in naval architecture from MIT in 1932. As a young naval officer he served a tour of duty in Panama and, in his long life, he transited the Panama Canal fifty-four times. During World War II Honsinger was deeply involved in battleship and LST (Landing Ship Tank) construction in the Norfolk, VA Navy Yard, in repairing British warships damaged in the Battle of the Atlantic, and in aircraft carrier construction at Newport News Shipbuilding Company in VA. Sent to Europe the last year of the war, he served as Acting Chief of the United States Technical Mission responsible for investigating German shipyards and their shipbuilding programs and bringing back their secrets. Admiral Honsinger served several tours of duty in the Bureau of Ships in Washington, D.C., including detailed responsibility for the Navy's shipbuilding program during the Korean War. After a tour as Commanding Officer of the Navy shipyard at Long Beach, CA, he was promoted to rear admiral and sent back to the Bureau of Ships for four years, first as Division Head of Ship Design, Construction, and Repair, and then for two years as Deputy Chief. Honsinger was associated early, and for many years, with the nuclear submarine program. He completed his thirty-nine-year naval career as Commanding Officer of the Mare Island Naval Shipyard, whose mission at that period was building nuclear submarines. Honsinger retired from Mare Island in 1962 with the Legion of Merit. Honsinger was president of the American Society of Naval Engineers and also of the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers. After retirement Admiral Honsinger spent ten years with Todd Shipyards Corporation in New York City, eight of those years as Vice President for Shipbuilding. In his later years he was a Trustee and Vice Chairman of World Education, an organization set up to support the literacy work of his aunt, Dr. Welthy Honsinger Fisher. Always civic minded, Admiral Honsinger was active in church work wherever he lived and for many years was an active Rotarian, including one year as President of the Tribury Rotary Club in Southbury, CT. He developed great interest in environmental issues and in his eighties made himself an expert on recycling efforts. Admiral Honsinger married his childhood sweetheart Norma Chapin in 1930 and the couple had just celebrated their seventieth wedding anniversary, September 6, 2000. In addition to hie wife, he is survived by a son, retired Captain Vernon Chapin (Chip) Honsinger of Lexington, VA, a daughter, Valerie Kirkpatrick Joiner of Atlanta, GA, a sister, Helen Halstead of Peru, VT, five grandchildren and six great grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, October 12, 2000 at the Activities Room at Ashlar Village, Cheshire Road, Wallingford. Burial will be private at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. There are no calling hours. It is suggested that gifts in his memory be made to the Ashlar Village Grants and Aid Fund, Post Office Box 70, Wallingford, CT 06492. Please call the B.C. Bailey Funeral Home at 273 South Elm Street in Wallingford for information.
      