
        LABRECQUE - Thomas. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Thomas Labrecque, a dedicated Board member and friend. He served on the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees, chaired the HSS International Council, and established the Thomas and Sheila Labrecque Trauma Research Endowment. He gave unstintingly of his time and knowledge to support the Hospital in its pursuit of the highest degree of excellence. He was a great humanitarian and an extraordinary contributor to the civic life of New York. He will be greatly missed and always remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Sheila, his children Thomas, Douglas, Karen and Barbara, and to all members of his bereaved family. Richard L. Menschel, Chairman Aldo Papone, Co-Chairman Board of Trustees Russell F. Warren, MD, Surgeon-in-Chief Stephen A. Paget, MD, Physician-in-Chief Philip D. Wilson, Jr., MD, Surgeon-in-Chief Emeritus John R. Reynolds, President & CEO LABRECQUE-Thomas G. The Women's Committee of The Central Park Conservancy extend their sincere condolences to Sheila Labrecque and her family on the loss of their beloved husband and father. We mourn Tom's passing as too soon and too quick, a man taken in the prime of life. His warmth, generosity and love for his family and friends, will be long remembered and missed. We offer our support and love, our thoughts and prayers. We pray that the family's faith in God will sustain them. The Board of Directors of The Women's Committee LABRECQUE-Thomas G. The Board of Directors of the International Rescue Committee notes with great sorrow the passing of our dear colleague, Thomas G. Labrecque. As a member of our Board Tom made extraordinary contributions to the IRC and the cause of refugees. We will miss his selfless leadership and passion for helping others in need. On behalf of the Board, we extend our condolences to his wife, Sheila and their family. Winston Lord, James C. Strickler, M.D. Co-Chairmen of the Board LABRECQUE - Thomas. We mourn the passing of our friend and fellow Board member, Thomas Labrecque. We have benefited greatly from his wisdom, counsel and dedication for nearly two decades and are deeply saddened by his loss. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Sheila, his children and his family. The Board of Trustees The Central Park Conservancy A.J.C. Smith, Chairman
      