
        LEAHY-Richard J. Attorney, 79, a founding partner of the law firm of Leahy, Nyberg, Curto and D'Apice, died on October 21 at Lawrence Hospital, Bronxville, NY. He lived in Yonkers, NY. Dick Leahy was a Vermont native who moved to Yonkers in 1949 with his wife of 52 years, Mildred King Leahy. A graduate of Manhattan College in 1942, he then served as a PT Boat Squadron Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy during World War II and later received a law degree from Fordham University in 1949. Dick's legal career began in Westchester County in 1949. He started as a solo practitioner, serving clients in the Yonkers and Westchester County communities in a number of general practice areas. He then went on to help found the law firm of Leahy, Nyberg, Curto and D'Apice in Yonkers in 1973, where he continued to practice until his death. Dick was a member of the New York State Bar Association, the New York State Trail Lawyers Association, and the Westchester County Bar Association, which recently awarded him their ''50 Years in Practice'' distinction. Dick Leahy was a devoted member of Our Lady of Fatima Catholic Parish in Scarsdale, where he was a member of the Catholic Order of the Knights of Malta and a Eucharistic Minister. He was also a longtime member of Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, an active member of the international Kiwanis Club, where he served as New York District Governor from 1973-1974, and also a founding member of the PT Boat Veterans Association of the United States. His wife Mildred died in 1999. Survivors include a brother, Alfred Leahy of Largo, Florida; a brother-in-law, Bill King, and a niece, Patricia Munhall, both of Las Vegas, Nevada; and a nephew, Christopher Leahy of Falls Church, Virginia. A public wake will be held on Monday, October 23 between 2-4 PM and 7-9 PM at Flynn Memorial Home at 1652 Central Park Ave Yonkers, NY. A memorial Mass with interment following will be offered on Tuesday, October 24th at 10 AM, at Our Lady of Fatima Catholic Church, 5 Strathmore Rd., Scarsdale. Memorial contibutions may be made to Catholic Relief Services, P.O. Box 17090, Baltimore, MD 21298.
      