
        GOLUB-David. The Herbert Barrett Management, Herbert Barrett, President; John A. Anderson, Executive Vice President; Mary Lynn Fixler, Vice President; Rob Robbins, Vice President; Nancy Wellman, Senior Advisor and Personal Manager to Mr. Golub, mourn the sudden passing of the extraordinary pianist/conductor David Golub in Milano, Italy on October 16, 2000. David was internationally renowned for his brilliant and majestic musical interpretations as pianist, conductor, chamber musician and recording artist. He was a man of so many gifts, especially for deep and abiding friendships around the world. We are filled with appreciation for his accomplishments and sorrow for this great loss. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Maria in Milano, his parents Benjamin and Sima Golub, in San Diego, his cousin David Ben Golub of New York and Seattle, and all of his family and friends worldwide. Private services are held Thursday, October 19th in Milano. A memorial concert will be held in New York City in Spring 2001.
        GOLUB-David. With tremendous sorrow, the Board of Directors, Artist Members and Staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, mourn the sudden loss of our dear friend & colleague David Golub. An Artist Member since 1993 and an extraordinary pianist, conductor and musical interpreter, David brought his probing intellect and superb musicianship to countless brilliant and engaging performances as a solo pianist, chamber musician and conductor. He embraced the music of 4 centuries, while ardently championing the work of today's composers. Beyond the concert stage, he was a true Renaissance man, profoundly interested in the connectedness between art and life. David's depth of musical insight and great humanity inspired all who knew and loved him. He will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Maria, and his parents, Benjamin and Sima. Donaldson C. Pillsbury, Chairman Peter Frelinghuysen, President David Shifrin, Artistic Director Norma Hurlburt, Exec. Director
      