
        HRBEK-Anne B. (O'Connell), 87, of Forked River, New Jersey. Died Saturday at home. She was born in New York City and lived in Cambria Heights, New York before moving to Forked River in 1967. She was a communicant of St. Pius X Roman Catholic Church in Forked River since 1967. She was also a member of the first graduating class of Bishop McDonald High School, Brooklyn, NY in 1930. Her husband Louis A. died in 1984. She was also predeceased by three brothers, William O'Connell in 1967, Vincent O'Connell in 1970 and John O'Connell in 1975, and two sisters, Muriel Bocksel in 1996 and Dorothy Jeandron in 2000. Surviving are a daughter and sonin-law, Barbara Hrbek and Donald Zucker, Old Westbury, NY; a daughter Maureen Palagonia, Whiting, NJ; a daughter and sonin-law, Karen L. and Charles Abbate, Forked River, NJ; and a daughter Deborah Hrbek, also of Forked River; two brothers, James O'Connell of Forked River and Raymond O'Connell of Bethel, CT and a sister, Sister Mary Doris O'Connell, O.P., College Point, NY. Beloved grandmother of Gregory D. Griffin, Daniel & Jessica Griffin, James H. Griffin and Benjamin Zucker; beloved grandmother of Anthony L. and Erin Palagonia and great-grandmother of their children, Pamela and Kathryn; beloved grandmother of Gina M. Palagonia and great-grandmother of Cody Laudato; beloved grandmother of Michael V. and Danielle Palagonia; beloved grandmother of Patrick J. and Katherine Palagonia and a great-grandmother of their children, Timothy, Tyler, Trevor; beloved grandmother of Charles D. and Cheryl Abbate and great-grandmother of their children, Christian and Lauren; beloved grandmother of Karenanne and Rodney Arters and great-grandmother to their children, Rodney and Emily; beloved grandmother of Nicholas J. Abbate and Elizabeth Tamasulo. Relatives and friends of the family are respectfully invited to attend the funeral mass on Wedneday, October 18, 2000 at The St. Pius X Roman Catholic Church, Forked River, NJ at 9:30 AM. Burial will follow at Good Luck Cemetery, Lanoka Harbor, New Jersey. Visitation will be Tuesday, October 17, 2000, from 2-4 & 7-9PM at the Layton's Home for Funerals, 250 West Lacey Road, Forked River, N.J., 609-971-6800. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to a cancer research charity of your choice.
        HRBEK-Anne B. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Anne B. Hrbek, beloved mother of Barbara Hrbek Zucker, the wife of our President, Donald Zucker. We extend our deepest condolences to Barbara and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein
        HRBEK-Anne H. The staff of Chavin Lambert Advertising wish to express their condolences to our esteemed client Barbara Zucker at the passing of her mother Anne. Our deepest sympathies to the entire Zucker family. Nick Chavin Lanny Lambert
      