
        CORRIGAN-John M. Of Spring Lake, NJ, and Delray Beach, FL, died suddenly on September 29. He was 58. Born in Jersey City, NJ, and a graduate of Seton Hall University. He was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Estee Lauder Companies. Mr. Corrigan is survived by his wife of 35 years, Antoinette, his children John IV, Melissa and Jason, granddaughter Caroline, and his sister Mary Collins. A Mass of the Resurrection will be celebrated at St. Catherine's Church, Spring Lake, NJ, on Thursday, October 5, at 10 AM. Visiting at Meehan Funeral Chapel, Spring Lake, NJ, on Tuesday, October 3, from 79 PM, and Wednesday, October 4, from 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Leonard A. Lauder Fred H. Langhammer The Estee Lauder Companies
        CORRIGAN-John M. The officers and employees of the Estee Lauder Companies and the Lauder family are deeply saddened by the sudden death of their respected and beloved colleague, John M. Corrigan. As Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Estee Lauder Companies, John represented the best executive talent in the cosmetics industry. He coupled a specific expertise with a mastery of the complex tasks involved in our business. He always acted with a humanity and care which distinguished him as a professional and endeared him as a human being to all who knew him. We extend our most sincere sympathy to his famly and many friends. He will be sorely missed. Leonard A. Lauder Fred H. Langhammer The Estee Lauder Companies
        CORRIGAN-John. On Friday, September 29, 2000. The Board of Trustees of the Bachmann Strauss Dystonia and Parkinsons Foundation mourns the untimely passing of its esteemed Trustee. John showed a unique creativity and compassion as he worked tirelessly on behalf of the Foundation to raise funds for dystonia research. He was honored this past June by the Foundation at its 8th Annual Dystonia Invitational for his unselfish dedication to the Foundation's mission. To his wife, Toni, and children John, Melissa, and Jason, we extend our heartfelt sympathy. Bonnie Strauss, President Thomas W. Strauss, Treasurer Nancy L. Rackoff, Secretary
      