
        SWAN-Alfred J. Of Plandome, Long Island, NY, who died at home October 21, 2000, lived a life of supporting and caring for his family, friends and community. His wife Ruth (Dattner), his daughters, Peggy and Fran, their husbands, Norman Feldman and Kenneth Peres, their children, Jonathan Hammer and Benyumin and Anushka Peres celebrate his life of 88 years. Alfred J. Swan graduated from Dartmouth College ('33) and Cornell Law School ('36). He served as a lieutenant in the US Navy in WWII, serving on the Destroyer Escort USS Atherton. From 1952 until December 1999, he was a partner in the law practice of Maggin and Swan, NY. Active and loving life until just one year ago, Alfred was a leader in both North Shore communities where he resided, in Great Neck, and since 1969, in Plandome. In the village of Kings Point, Great Neck, he was Trustee and Chairman of The Planning Board, co-founder and thereafter President of the United Community Fund, and member of the United Parent Teachers Council. He was chairman of the NonPartisans Citizens Nominating Committee which was then the leading group for nominating members to serve on the Great Neck School Board. In the Village of Plandome he served a term as Mayor, was Trustee of the Village from 1980-1987, was a member of Plandome Field and Marine Club and Plandome Civic Association and was also instrumental in the reconstruction of the Plandome Train Station in the style of the original building. Two positions of which he was very proud were fire policemen in the Plandome Volunteer Fire Department since 1970, and past Commodore of Knickerbocker Yacht Club. Alfred was an avid sailor and racer on Manhasset Bay. Memorial services for Alfred J. Swan will be held at Temple Beth-El, Old Mill Rd, Great Neck, on Tuesday, October 24, 2000, at 2 PM. The body will be cremated and according to the wishes of this man who loved the sea, the ashes will be scattered on Manhasset Bay. The family requests no flowers please, but if desired, contributions can be made to Hospice Care Network, 900 Merchants Concourse, Westbury, NY 11590, or to the charity of your choice in the loving memory of Alfred J. Swan.
        SWAN-Alfred J. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        SWAN-Alfred. The Officers, Board of Governors, and Members of the Knickerbocker Yacht Club mourn the loss of past Commodore, Alfred Swan, and extend their deepest sympathy to his wife Ruth, daughters Peggy and Fran, and their families.
      