
        DEMPSEY-Louis F. Of New York City died at home on October 16, 2000. Dearest and beloved husband of Patricia. Devoted father of Maryann Sedlack (Jeffrey) of Carlisle, Pennsylvania, Patricia Hammond (William) of Summit, New Jersey, Kathleen Malhame (George) of Manhasset, New York, Louis F. Dempsey (Maria) of Riverside, Connecticut, and Thomas F. Dempsey (Melinda) of New York, New York. Cherished grandfather of William, Anne, Meg, Charlie, Mary, Katie, Jack, Luke, and Mark. Beloved son of the late Louis F. Dempsey and the late Clara Lade Dempsey of Morristown, New Jersey. He is survived by his brothers Charles L. Dempsey of Landsdowne, Virginia, Joseph H. Dempsey of Morristown, New Jersey and his sister Maryclare Myers of Morris Plains, New Jersey. Mr. Dempsey's career in international banking spanned 50 years. He was employed by Chase Manhattan Bank in Hong Kong and San Juan, Puerto Rico, The Northern Trust Company in Chicago, Illinois where he was an Executive Vice President responsible for the International Banking Division, and Chemical Bank where he was an Executive Vice President responsible for international private banking. He retired in 1998 from Brown Brothers Harriman where he was a Senior Advisor. He served on a number of financial boards and advisory committees throughout his career including Chinese American Bank, Bluestone Capital, China Trust and LendingTree. Mr. Dempsey served on the boards of The Transfiguration Church of New York City, The Woodstock Theological Center of Washington D.C., The Financial Advisory Committee of the Passionist Missionaries, The Cardinal's Committee for the Laity of the Archdiocese of New York, and the Development Fund of the Catholic Archdiocese of New York. Following Mr. Dempsey's freshman year at Georgetown University, he enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps and served with the First Marine Division during World War II. In June of 1945, Mr. Dempsey was a scout sniper in the battle for Okinawa at Kunishi Ridge. Mr. Dempsey later served as part of the China Occupation Forces. He returned home and graduated from the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University in 1948 where he later served on the Board of Regents. The family will receive friends at the Fairchild Sons funeral home at 1570 Northern Boulevard, Manhasset, New York on October 17 from 7:00 to 9:00 P.M. and on October 18 from 3:00 to 5:00 P.M. and from 7:00 to 9:00 P.M. A mass of Christian Burial will be said on October 19 at 11:15 A.M. at the Church of St. Mary s, 1300 Northern Boulevard, Manhasset, New York. Burial will be held at Holy Rood Cemetery, Westbury, New York. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Inner City Scholarships Fund of the Catholic Archdiocese of New York at 1011 First Avenue, New York, New York 10022.
      