
        DOWLING-John P., 67. Surrounded by family, died at home on October 22, 2000. He is survived by his much beloved wife of forty years, Eileen Frances (nee Toomey), and his cherished children, Timothy Dowling (wife Elizabeth) of Charlotte, NC, Eileen Dowling and Madeleine Dowling, both of Manhattan, Elizabeth Glazer (husband Neil) of Philadelphia, and his adored grandchildren, Emily and Grace Dowling, of Charlotte. He is also survived by his dear devoted sister, Joan McCormick, of Osterville, MA. John was an extraordinarily generous man who loved and valued his family and friends. His loving and warm presence will be missed sorely by all that knew him. A resident of Ridgewood, NJ, John was a graduate of Fordham Preparatory School, Fordham University, the Fordham University School of Law, and the Harvard Business School Advanced Management Program. Having served in the United States Army in Germany as a Lieutenant from 1954 through 1956, John retired as a Senior Vice President of Manufacturers Hanover. John was firmly committed to community service and served on the Board of Trustees of Calvary Hospital for nineteen years and was also a member of the Finance Committee of the Parish Council of Our Lady of Mount Carmel. John was a member of Ridgewood Country Club. Family and friends are invited to visit Feeney Funeral Home in Ridgewood, 2-4 PM and 7-9 PM, on Tuesday, October 24. The celebratory mass will be held at Our Lady of Mount Carmel in Ridgewood on Wednesday, October 25, at 9:30 AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to: Calvary Hospital, attn: John Dowling Memorial Fund, 1740 Eastchester Road, Bronx, New York 10461.
        DOWLING-John P. On behalf of the Board of Directors, administration and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc., we mourn the passing of our former longtime boardmember and dear friend. John Dowling served on the hosital Board of Directors from 1977 until 1996. He was also a member of the Calvary Fund, Inc. Board of Directors from 1985 until 1992. John gave generously of his time as a member of the Executive, Finance, and Public Relations and Development Committees. His commitment and leadership contributed greatly to the growth and success of the hospital's program of care. We extend our condolences to John's wife, Eileen, and his family. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., M.D. Chairman of the Calvary Hospital, Board of Directors Dennis E. Berberich, Chairman Calvary Fund, Inc., Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President/ Executive Director Michael J. Brescia, M.D., Medical Director
      