
        COLLINS-George J. A s chool designer and education planner who surveyed, analyzed and designed over 500 schools world wide, died on October 22 in Hollywood, FL. He was 79. He remained active in his profession up to the time of his death. Dr. Collins was born in New Haven, CT, on April 20, 1921. He was raised by his mother, Alice Mursko, and his grandparents, Ameilia and Louis Mursko. He attended local New Haven schools, graduating from Hillhouse High School in 1939 where he captained the basketball team and was active in school sports. Prior to World War II, he served as a foreman at Chance Vought building navy fighters. He reported to Fort Benning, GA where he entered his OCS and became a ''90-day-wonder'', later serving in Europe as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Infantry with the Third Army under Patton. He captained the Third Army basketball and baseball teams to championships after the war ended. He was a career Army Reservist who switched to medical corps before the outbreak of the Korean War and later held the rank of Colonel. He loved the U.S. Army and the opportunities it provided. After a short career in professional basketball where he owned the local New Haven team, he took advantage of the G.I. Bill and, at 28, entered New Haven State Teachers College. He earned a B.S. degree with high honors, majoring in math, while holding down two part-time jobs. He continued to pursue a career as an educator, obtaining a M.A. from Yale University in psychology and an Ed.D. from Teachers College Columbia University where he won a twoyear fellowship. His dissertation included a comprehensive study of the Summit, New Jersey School System. Dr. Collins' early education positions included ''Master Teaching'' with Southern Connecticut University, Assistant Superintendant for Business at Hartsdale, NY, Professor and Director of Planning at the University of New Mexico. In 1962, Dr. Collins came to the U.S. Office of Education in Washington, D.C. where in 1965, he authored The Higher Ed ucation Facilities Act for President Johnson. While in Washington, he earned a Juris Doctor from George Washington University School of Law. His law degree was instrumental in helping him win over numerous city councils and legislators as he championed education facilities, first as Associate Commissioner of Education for Massachusetts, and later as President of his own companyGeorge Collins Educational Associates, Inc. His school building studies and surveys include more than 500 projects throughout the Commonwealth, as well as U.S. State Department Schools in more than 68 overseas schools including: Warsaw, Prague, Budapest, Panama, Costa Rica, Honduras, San Salvador, Athens, Barcelona, Madrid, Milan, Lesetho, Lusoka, Eritrea, Moscow. ''His strategic plans in Rome helped save the Marymount School. In Milan, Dr. Collins was credited with saving the former Chase Bank Library for use as the American School. He introduced high-tech innovations and insisted on CNN channels of communication in U.S. schools throughout the world as a tool to keep students current on world affairs and to spread democracy,'' according to his close friend, Dr. Sal J. Rinaldi, Diplomat in Residence at Florida Atlantic University. Dr. Collins returned to Washington as Special Assistant to the Commanding General at U.S. Army Corp of Engineers for a short stint in 1980. Locally, Dr. Collins played on several teams in the West Haven Twilight League where he is a ''Gold Bat'' recipient. In Branford, West Haven, and Hollywood, FL, Dr. Collins was knows in later years for his deft touch on the tennis court and ''shooting the eyes out of the basket'' with his radar-like one and two-handed set shots. Dr. Collins authored to high school textbooks-''An Introduction to Nuclear Physics'' and ''The Challenge of Understanding Your Laws''. Dr. Collins is survived by his wife of 61 years, Orien; two sons, George, Jr. of Gibson Island, MD, and Robert D. of Madison, CT; six grandchildren, George B. of Stamford, CT, David of Greenwich, CT, Jonathan of Miami, FL, Derek of Baltimore, MD, Justin of Boston, MA, and Courtney of Madison, CT; and seven great-grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory should be directed to: George J. Collins Scholarship at Southern Connecticut State University, Teachers College Columbia University or National YMCA. Viewing will be at the West Haven Funeral Home on Thursday, October 26 from 4-8PM. A mass will be celebrated on Friday, October 27 at 11AM, at St. John Vianney in West Haven, CT.
      