
        LABRECQUE-Thomas. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York regret the passing of Thomas Labrecque, former chairman and chief executive of Chase Manhattan Corporation. We join the leadership in our Banking & Finance Division in extending sincerest condolences to Mr. Labrecque's friends and colleagues at Chase, a corporation that has expressed concern for Jewish and humanitarian causes through its exceptional generosity. Our heartfelt sympathies go to Mr. Labrecque's beloved wife, Sheila; his 4 children, Thomas Jr., Douglas, Karen Shea, and Barbara Corbin; his 5 grandchildren; and the entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        LABRECQUE-Thomas. The Officers, Advisory Board and staff of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation are profoundly saddened by the untimely passing of Thomas Labrecque, beloved husband of our Advisory Board member, Sheila. Tom was always supportive of the Foundation and its efforts to fund clinical and genetic research in breast cancer. We extend to Sheila, and the entire family, our sincerest condolences and our love. Evelyn H. Lauder, President Jeanette Wagner, Vice President Deborah Krulewitch, Secretary and Treasurer Susan Hirschhorn, Exec. Director
        LABRECQUE-Thomas G. New York University notes with great sadness the untimely passing of alumnus and former University Board Member, Thomas G. Labrecque. Greatly admired and respected by all, Tom will be remembered for his dedication to his alma mater, his unstinting and numerous philanthropic efforts, and his devotion to the civic life of the city. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family and the promise that he will not be forgotten. Martin Lipton, Chairman, Board of Trustees L. Jay Oliva, President
        LABRECQUE-Thomas G. The Board of Trustees of Rockefeller Financial Services mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our friend and fellow Trustee Thomas Labrecque. He was a man of total integrity, with great business skills and an exceptional sense of fairness and kindness. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Sheila, his children & family. Abby M. O'Neill, Chairman William L. Asmundson, CEO David Rockefeller, Sr. Trustee
      