
        BAUDOIN-Charles H., October 4, 2000. Loving husband of Suzanne. Caring father of Patsy, Jean-Yves, Marina and Bettina. Grandfather of Christina, Patrick, Alexander, Daniel and Paul. Father-in-law of Madge, Ellen, Harry and Henri. He will be remembered by family and friends for his love of life and friendship, for his sense of humor, his wisdom, and his courage, as well as his contribution to the French Resistance. BAUDOIN-Charles H. It is with a profound sense of loss that Thanks To Scandinavia notes the passing of a truly exceptional and honorable human being Charles H. Baudoin. A person of unyielding faith in the goodness of mankind, he devoted much of his adult life to humane causes that enriched the lives of thousands. As a Vice President and a member of the Thanks to Scandinavia Board of Directors, he was a motivating source instrumental in the educational organization's recent affiliation with the American Jewish Committee. He was dedicated to the moral imperatives of Thanks To Scandinavia in reminding current and future generations of the heroism and bravery of the people, the governments and churches of Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden in rescuing persons of the Jewish faith from the Holocaust and in expressing America's gratitude to the Scandinavians through its perpetual program of scholarship awards to Scandinavian students and doctors. The nobility and sense of humane purpose exhibited by Charles Baudoin throughout his long and fruitful life stands as a beacon to all who mourn his passing today. Victor Borge, National Chairman Richard Netter, President Michael D. Beinner, Vice President BAUDOIN-Charles H. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of Charles H. Baudoin, a vice president of, and vital force behind, Thanks To Scandinavia, an organization with which AJC is proud to have joined in affiliation. Having survived the Holocaust as part of the French Resistance, Mr. Baudoin's affection for, and dedication to, this group that honors the unique role of Scandinavian countries in the rescue of Jews during World War II was a natural outgrowth of who he was and what he stood for. He was a brave and gentle man, and an inspiration and a friend. We send our sincere condolences to his wife and chidren. Bruce M. Ramer, President David A. Harris, Exec Director
      