
        MURRAY-John Patrick Jr., on October 3, at the age of 73, of Princeton, NJ and Hobe Sound, Florida. Beloved husband of almost 50 years of Mary Tietje. Devoted father of Ellen Kelsey, Greenwich, CT, Elizabeth Hosea, Princeton, NJ, John P. III, New York City, W. Stephen, Greens Farms, CT, M. Timothy, Stuart, FL, R. Scott, Plymouth, NH and nine grandchildren. He was predeceased by sons, J. Michael and Peter C. He served in the United States Navy during World War II. He graduated from Indiana University, Class of 1949 and was elected to their Academy of Alumni Fellows and Business School Hall of Fame. In his 50 year business career, he was President/ CEO of The Atlantic Products Corporation, President/CEO of the Prince Tennis Corporation, and Chairman/CEO of Wilson Sporting Goods. He served as a Director on the boards of a number of companies and philanthropic organizations including The New Jersey National Bank, CoreStates Financial Corporation, ChesebroughPonds Inc. and the Recording for the Blind where he served as National Chairman. He was Director of The International Tennis Hall of Fame, The Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association, The United States Tennis Association and The Golf Manufacturers Association. He served as a Commissioner to the town of Jupiter Island, FL. He was founder and Chairman of the Murray Foundation, whose focus is research to save sight and other medical interests. Jack Murray will be remembered by his family and friends as an enthusiastic sportsman who was particularly devoted to the tradiitons and game of golf. He was Founding President of the Bedens Brook Club, Princeton, NJ, a long time member of The Pine Valley Golf Club, where he was a Trustee, Seminole Golf Club and The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews. There will be a private family service. Contributions in his memory may be made to: The Medical Center at Princeton Foundation, 253 Witherspoon Street, Princeton, NJ 08540 or Jupiter Medical Center Foundation, 1210 South Old Dixie Highway, Jupiter, Florida 33458.
      