
        MULLANE-Edwin J. It is with deepest sorrow that we announce that Edwin J. Mullane, President of Mullane Ford of Bergenfield, N.J. and President and Founder of the Ford Dealers Alliance died at his home on Saturday, October 7, 2000 of pulmonary complications, the residual effects of polio, a disease he contracted as a youth. Ed was a man of strong character and strong convictions. He lived his life by those convictions, always trying to make a difference in the world in which he lived. Upon graduating from Fordham University in 1935, Ed and his brother Bill ran Mullane Brothers Appliance business in New Jersey from 1935 to 1955, except for the time spent in the Army during WWII. He became a Ford dealer in 1956. In 1969, upon successfully challenging Ford on a warranty issue, he and the Newark and New York dealers realizing what could be accomplished as a group, founded and incorporated the Ford Dealers Alliance. Over the past 30 years, Ed became best known as an outspoken protagonist for dealers' rights. He had strongly and consistently espoused the rights of dealers and the consumer and unstintingly criticized the factory encroachment of those rights. His message has been carried in The New York Times, NBC National News and many other major news media, and has been mentioned in such books as Emma Rothschild's ''Paradise Lost'' and ''Iacocca's Autobiography'' in which he was the only dealer mentioned by name. In 1993, he was named one of the one-hundred most influential people in the history of the automobile industry by Automotive News, a trade publication. He believed in the words of Edmund Burke, who he often quoted, ''The only thing for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing.'' This is the motto by which he lived his life. He was a good man who never tired of working towards ending factory injustices. With Ed's passing, we lose the staunchest supporter of dealer rights, a devoted leader, but most importantly, we lose a very good friend. We will all miss him terribly. Ed's wife Ruth passed away in 1996. He is survived by his brother Bill, his daughter Mary Alice Hill, and his son Michael, and by seven grandchildren and one great grandchild.
      