
        LOW-Evlynne. In her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Max. Devoted mother of Robert and Frieda, and Barbara and Robert Savin. Adored grandmother of Debi and Steve Scoggan, Scott Savin, Gary and Nancy Low, Caren and Glen Coben and Warren Low. Cherished great-grandmother of five. Service on Thursday, 11:15AM, Westchester Jewish Center, Palmer and Rockland Avenue, Mamaroneck, NY. Contributions to your favorite charity or the United Hebrew Geriatric Center. 60 Willow Dr., New Rochelle, NY. For information, call Plaza Memorial Chapel, 212-769-4400. LOW-Evlynne. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Evlynne Low. The Low and Savin Families are dedicated Benefactors of The Hebrew University. Among the projects benefiting from the generosity of Evlynne and her late husband, Max, are the Evlynne and Max M. Low Medical Research Building at The Hebrew University Hadassah Medical School; the Harry S. Truman Research Institute for the Advancement of Peace, of which they were Founders; the Otto Stieber Chair for Cancer Research; and the Avraham Harman Chair in Modern Jewish History. We extend our deepest condolences to her children, Barbara Low Savin and her husband, Robert S. Savin, AFHU National Vice President; Robert K. Low and his wife, Frieda; grandchildren, great-grandchildren and the entire family. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President Professor Menahem Ben-Sasson, Rector Yigal Arnon, Chairman of the Board of Governors American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President LOW-Evlynne. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University deeply mourns the passing of its long-time friend, esteemed Benefactor and beloved wife of the late Max, who was a member of our Board of Overseers. The adored mother of Robert and Frieda Low and Barbara and Robert Savin, Mrs. Low was the matriarch of the distinguished philanthropic family that named the Low Residence Hall on our Jack and Pearl Resnick Campus. A woman of compassion, she will be greatly missed by all who had the privilege of knowing her. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
      