
        GELDZAELER-Hortense. Of Toronto, Canada, on October 4, 2000 in her 103rd year. Beloved mother of Emily L. Grant (Eugene) of Mamaroneck, NY, Alfreda Henry, and the late Phyllis Weisfeld of Toronto; devoted grandmother of Barbi Weisfeld, David Weisfeld, Robert Henry and Carol Henry of Toronto; Terry Grant of Charlottesville, VA, Andrea Grant and Carolyn Grant of Boulder, CO; and doting great-grandmother of Jordana, Andrew and Alexis Klarfield, Leslie and Brett Henry, and Jamie Weisfeld of Toronto; and Samantha Grant Pardee and Jordan Grant-Krenz of Boulder, CO. Born in NYC in 1897, she became an accomplished pianist and singer, working with music publishers in Tin Pan Alley. In WW I, she served with a USO troupe entertaining Canadian and American troops departing for overseas, and met a young Canadian officer, the love of her life, the late Bernard Geldzaeler of Toronto, Canada, whom she married on his return from Europe. An effervescent personality and a superb entertainer, Hortense was an active leader at Holy Blossom Temple, Toronto, for many years. She was an elegant and charming presence throughout her life and brought untold happiness to all who knew her. Funeral services at Holy Blossom Temple, Toronto, Canada will be held at 10:30 A.M. on Friday, October 6th. GELDZAELER-Hortense. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Hortense Geldzaeler of Toronto, beloved mother of Emily L. Grant, a cherished leader in the Jewish community. Emily and her husband, Eugene M. Grant are admired and respected for their extraordinary leadership, commitment and philanthropy on behalf of UJA-Federation and many other organizations worldwide. We extend our sincerest condolences to Emily and Eugene; to Mrs. Geldzaeler's other daughter, Alfreda Henry; her seven grandchildren; her seven great-grandchildren; and her entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
      