
        FALK-Ferdie A. Beloved husband, father and grandfather, passed away on Friday, November 3, on his 72nd birthday. Mr. Falk, a well-known liquor executive worldwide, spanning over forty years in the liquor industry. He was founder, Chairman, and principal shareholder of the Ancient Age Distilling Company, which is a major producer of bourbon whiskey. He also served in an executive capacity with Seagrams International, Schenley Distillers and the Fleischmann Distilling Corp, Nabisco Products, Inc., and past Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Julius Wile Son & Co. He was a member of the Chevalier De Tastevin, Sommelier Society and the Lucullus Circle. He was listed in the prestigious ''Who's Who in America'' and ''Who's Who in the World.'' Mr. Falk was also very active in the community of Boca Raton, Florida, where he lived. He was a member of the Board of Directors of the Boca Raton Resort and Club. He also served as both past President and Board Director of the Boca Raton Resort and Club. He also served as both past President and Board Director of the Mizner Tower Condominium Association. Mr. Falk also founded Falk Properties, Inc., a development and management company with vast real estate holdings in New York and Louisiana. Throughout his lifetime Mr. Falk was very active as both a participant and fund-raiser for numerous charitable organizations worldwide, earning him awards and honors such as ''Man of the Year'' for the Association of Retarded Children, ''Sword of Haganah'' from the State of Israel, ''Cavaleri De Lavaro'' from the Italian Government, ''Federated British Industry'' from the English Government, ''Flame of Truth'' from the Fund for Higher Education and ''Dr. Louis Berger Memorial'' from The American Cancer Society, past President Sky Ranch for Boys, past Chairman of the Liquor Division of The United Negro College Fund. Mr. Falk is survived by his loving wife Peggy, his beloved daughter and son-inlaw Lori Falk Katzman and Marc Katzman of Harrington Park, New Jersey, his beloved son Chris and daughter-in-law Gina Falk of New Orleans, Louisiana, beloved son Mel and daughter-in-law Nancy Jacob of Roslyn, New York, beloved son Steven and daughter-inlaw Ivonne Jacob of Atlanta, Georgia. Adored and loved by his ten grandchildren, Amanda, Eric, Bryan, Austin, Tyler, Jessica, Michelle, Lauren, Elyssa, and Giselle. A devoted husband, supportive father, and the most wonderful grandfather, will be missed sorely by all. Memorial contributions to The Ursula and Ferdie Falk Endowment Fund at Temple Beth El, 333 SW 4th Ave., Boca Raton, FL 33432. For further information, contact Guttermam Warheit, Boca Raton.
      