
        BERRYMAN-Doris L. 74. Educator and leader in the field of recreation and leisure services. Died at her home in NYC on November 3, 2000, of pancreatic cancer. As a Professor at New York University from 1973 to 1997 and as a Professor Emertius until her death, she taught hundreds of students, mentored an international cadre of doctoral candidates, conducted numerous research and training projects, and served as a consultant to leisure recreation and health related service delivery institutions at home and abroad. She was an elected member of the Academy of Leisure Sciences and was the recipient of numerous recognition, research and service awards from professional organizations, honorary societies and service organizations. She received a bachelor's degree from Denver University, a master's from Teachers College, Columbia University and a doctorate from the School of Education, New York University. Before joining the faculty of NYU, she served as Director of Recreation for children and adults at Memorial Sloan Kettering, as a member of the field staff of the National Recreation Association and as Associate Director of Comeback, Inc. She was a pioneer in the establishment and enhancement of recreation services for persons with special needs in hospitals, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, vocational rehabilitation centers, sheltered workshops, and public recreation departments, and in the elimination of architectural and social barriers to recreation services for all. She was an active member of World Leisure & Recreation Assn, the National Recreation and Park Assn, the National Therapeutic Recreation Society, the Society of Park & Recreation Educators, the American Educational Research Assn, the American Assn for Higher Education, the NYS Recreation and Park Society, the NYS Therapeutic Recreation Assn, Metropolitan Recreation & Park Society, Pi Lambda Theta Phi Delta Kappa. She was a regular workshop leader and presented at professional conferences and training workshops in the United States, Canada, Bermuda, Brazil, Spain, France, the Netherlands, Israel, Korea, Taiwan, as well as locally and regionally. She will be remembered by her many friends, colleagues and former students as a model professional, educator, and nurturer, and for her intellectual curiosity, indomitable spirit, elegance, generosity, playfulness, concern for the environment, and love of theater and the arts.She is survived by her longtime companion, Claudette B. Lefebvre
      