
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved wife of Stephen M. Levene and widow of the late Harold J. Kalikow. Loving mother of Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein. Cherished grandmother of Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. Dear mother-in-law of Mary Kalikow and John Wallerstein. Devoted sister of Gertrude Blum, Harold Citrin, Renee Weil and Barbara Goldstein. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Juliet Kalikow Levene Memorial Fund, New York Presbyterian Hospital. LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. The Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York, acknowledges with deep regret the passing of Juliet Kalikow Levene, the mother of ABO Governor, Peter Kalikow. Juliet's death will forever leave a void in this great city which she and her family helped develop. Her warm spirit and generous soul will live within all of us in the real estate industry. Rest in peace. Michael Kerr, Co-Chairman Arnold Sollar, Co-Chairman Jerome Belson, President Nicholas LaPorte, Jr., Executive Director LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Juliet Kalikow Levene, a long time member of ADL's Women's Division and generous supporter. Our heartfelt condolences to Stephen, Peter, Penny and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director Babette Bandler Chair, Women's Division LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. The Partners, Associates and Staff of Podell Schwartz, Schechter and Banfield extend their deepest sympathy to our dear friend Peter S. Kalikow on the loss of his beloved mother, Juliet Kalikow Levene. We share our sincerest condolences with the entire Kalikow family. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We are deeply sorrowed at the passing of a most elegant lady who was a devoted wife, mother and grandmother. Our sincerest condolences to the Levene and Wallerstein families, their grandchildren and to our dear friends Peter and Mary Kalikow and their children Nicholas and Kathryn. Sugar and Jerry Schrager LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved aunt-our heartfelt condolences to Peter, Mary, Penny, John, Stephen and all of Juliet's cherished grandchildren. She will be missed by all who knew her. Carol and Richard Kalikow and Family LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Our heartfelt sympathies go out to Peter and the entire Kalikow, Levene and Wallerstein families, on the passing of Juliet Kalikow Levene. The Staff and Officers of Colliers ABR, Inc. LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We regret the passing of a wonderful woman, loving mother, grandmother and good friend. Heartfelt condolences to Peter and Mary. Billy Lawson LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. A great aunt with a lot of style. My love and heartfelt condolences to her husband Stephen, and my cousins Peter and Penny & their families. Bobby Wailes LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Our heartfelt condolences to Peter and his family. May your memories of Juliet be a source of comfort. Jane and Arthur Rosenbloom
      