
        HENKIND-Evelyn. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Evelyn Henkind, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. Mrs. Henkind and her beloved husband, Sol, shared a deep commitment to ensuring the health and welfare of Jews around the world. Together, they endowed the Henkind Eye Institute at Montefiore Medical Center, a beneficiary agency. Through their exceptional support of our Westchester campaign and other prominent philanthropic causes, they have left an indelible mark on our community. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mrs. Henkind's husband, Sol; her son, Lewis; her daughter and son-inlaw, Ellie and Michael Katz; her grandchildren; & the entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Barry Effron, Chair, Westchester Campaign
        HENKIND-Evelyn. The Jewish Braille Institute of America records with sorrow the loss of a much respected and devoted Honorary Life Trustee, Evelyn Henkind. Together with her beloved husband, Sol, she advanced the welfare of the Jewish blind and visually impaired, whom we served. A woman of great dignity and compassion, she will be remembered for her service to humankind. We extend profound sympathy to her husband Sol and the entire family sure in the knowledge that her memory will serve as a blessing. The Jewish Braille Institute of America Barbara B. Friedman, President Dr. Jane Evans, Honorary Pres. Dr. Ellen Isler, Executive VP
        HENKIND-Evelyn. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University notes with deep sorrow the passing of a long-time friend and supporter, who, with her husband, Sol, was a Founder of our medical school. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to Sol, Lewis, Ellie, and the entire Henkind family that has played an important role in the life our institution over many years. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
      