
        FALK-Pauline B. On Tuesday, November 21, 2000 at 90 years of age. Loving wife of the late Myron S. Falk, Jr. (Johnny). Mother of Patricia, Michael and Nancy. Grandmother of Christopher, Brooke, Melanie, Amerin, Gregory and Logan. Great grandmother of Ruby, Zoe, Jasper and Leon. Sister of the late Herman Baerwald, Jane Aron and Florence Doubilet. Also survived by devoted family and friends. Funeral service Tuesday, November 28th, 12 Noon, Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave at 65 St, NYC. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, 120 West 57 St, NY, NY 10019.
        FALK-Pauline Baerwald. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with great sadness the death of Pauline Falk, honorary president of JBFCS. An extraordinary leader, Pauline was a true pioneer in the field of social work and was devoted to the profession throughout her life. For nearly 70 years, Pauline worked tirelessly to advance family services, first at the Jewish Family Service, one of our predecessor agencies where she served as president, and later at the merged agency, JBFCS. Pauline was an avid supporter of the agency's professional training division, the Martha K. Selig Educational Institute, and also served as its president. She understood the need to examine the impact of social work practice as reflected in her work on the development council of the Center for the Study of Social Work Practice, the joint program of JBFCS and the Columbia University School of Social Work. Pauline's unwavering support of professional development will live on as a result of the Aron Foundation's establishment of the agency's Pauline Falk Publication Fund. Among her many interests at JBFCS was Madeleine Borg Community Services, whose committee benefited from her wisdom and leadership for many years. Pauline had an exceptional ability to draw upon her long history in human services to advance services to families in need. She was always ready to stimulate and support innovation and, even in her later years, understood the agency's need to adapt to changing community needs. She was respected and beloved by board and staff and will be deeply missed by all of us. Her legacy will live on for generations in the fabric of our agency and the city she served. Our condolences to her children, Pat, Michael and Nancy, and their families. Seymour R. Askin, Jr., Chairman of the Board Joseph S. Kaplan, President Alan B. Siskind, PhD., Executive Vice President
        FALK-Pauline B. Congregation Emanu-El of The City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Pauline B. Falk, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of her passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who loved her be comforted. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
      