
        MORTARA-Michael P., Goldman Sachs Executive. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated on Wednesday, November 15th, at 11:00am at St. Anthony of Padua Church in Litchfield. Burial will be in St. Anthony Cemetery. There are no calling hours. The Rowe Funeral Home, 283 Torrington Rd., Litchfield has charge of the services. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to The Michael P. Mortara Scholarship Fund, C/O Christine Smith, Georgetown University, 301 Intercultural Center, 37th and O Street, Washington, DC 20057. MORTARA-Michael. It is with shock and disbelief that we acknowledge the untimely death of our Partner and dear friend. As members of the Executive Committee of Salomon Brothers, we worked side by side with Michael during his highly productive years at our firm. He was a major contributor to our firm in the broadest sense. His keen intellect helped to promote the nationwide development of the mortgage backed securities market-today, a cornerstone for the U.S. capital markets. But, his contribution to Salomon Brothers was most apparent in his concern for his fellow partners and colleagues. He was an integral part of the firm's culture during its years of dynamic growth. He deeply cared for and nurtured the people with whom he worked and demonstrated the highest professional standards in every challenge he undertook. While we mourn our loss, it pales in comparison to the loss incurred by his family. To his wife Virginia, and his sons Michael and Matthew, we extend our deepest sympathy. John Gutfreund Allan Fine Gedale Horowitz Henry Kaufman Jim Massey Lew Ranieri Dick Schmeelk Tom Strauss MORTARA - Michael P. The people of Goldman Sachs Group express their heartfelt condolences and prayers to the family of our dear friend and partner. Mike played an important role in the development of the capital markets, and in the management of our firm. His unique talents and quest for innovation will be greatly missed by all who were fortunate to have known and worked with Mike. MORTARA-Michael P. Heather and Steve Mnuchin offer their deepest sympathy to the family of our friend, Michael Mortara: Gina, his wife, and his sons, Michael, Jr. and Matt. MORTARA-Michael P. You have brightened our lives and your light shines on in Gina, Michael, Jr. and Matt. We will miss you and love you forever. Dick and Susan Ebersol, Sunshine, Harmony, Charlie, Willie and Teddy. MORTARA-Michael. It was an honor and a joy to have been a friend of Mike Mortara. He was an extraordinary man. He deeply loved his family. He cared about others. He was a brilliant professional. His word was his bond. My family and I send our love and sympathy to Jenna, Michael and Matthew. We love you. John S. Corzine MORTARA-Michael, a great friend and partner whose humor, creativity and intelligence will be sorely missed. We were all lucky to have known you. Our deepest sympathy to Jenna, Michael and Matthew. Brooke and Daniel Neidich.
      