
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved wife of Stephen M. Levene and widow of the late Harold J. Kalikow. Loving mother of Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein. Cherished grandmother of Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. Dear mother-in-law of Mary Kalikow and John Wallerstein. Devoted sister of Gertrude Blum, Harold Citrin, Renee Weil and Barbara Goldstein. Funeral service Monday, November 13, 1 PM, at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65th St. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Juliet Kalikow Levene Memorial Fund, New York Presbyterian Hospital.
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. The staff of H. J. Kalikow & Company mourns the loss of Juliet Kalikow Levene, mother of Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein, wife of Stephen M. Levene, mother-in-law of Mary J. Kalikow and John Wallerstein, loving grandmother of Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, and Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. We all feel a keen sense of loss with the passing of Mr. Kalikow's mother. She will be deeply missed. H. J. Kalikow & Co. Staff
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Juliet Kalikow Levene. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. A beautiful lady. You will be greatly missed by all whose lives you have touched. Our hearts and love go to her husband Stephen, our dear friends Peter and Mary Kalikow and Penny and John Wallerstein and all of their grandchildren. Roberta and Ricky Brudner
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Our heartfelt sympathy to the entire Kalikow, Levene and Wallerstein families on the passing of Juliet Kalikow Levene, beloved mother, grandmother and wife. She was an inspiration to everyone. Dan, Peggy, David, John and Brendan Cremins
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Kalikow family on the loss of Juliet Kalikow Levene. She will be missed by all of us who had the privilege of knowing her. Irving D. Alter Arthur S. Mantel
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our darling Juliet. She was a beloved member of our family and a dear friend to all of us. We shall miss all the good times we've shared. Janice and Murray Baxter
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to our dear sister-in-law Penny and to Steve and Peter. We shall miss the happy family occasions we shared. She was a special lady. Didi Wallerstein and John Herfort
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We extend our deepest sympathy to Penny Wallerstein, Peter Kalikow and Stephen Levene on the loss of their beloved mother and wife. The Employees of William A. Schwarz & Son Corp.
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved sister, aunt and friend. You added a special dimension to all our lives and will be forever missed. Our condolences to Stephen, Peter, Penny and their families. Hal and Glenna Citrin and family
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. With deepest sympathy to the Kalikow, Levene and Wallerstein families on the loss of their beloved mother, grandmother and wife Juliet. She will live on in our memories. Martin and Mary Ann McLaughlin
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We are deeply saddened and share our sincerest condolences with the Kalikow family on the loss of Juliet Kalikow Levene. Nikki, Stephanie, Douglas and Allana Henkin
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. With deepest regrets to Peter, Mary, Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, Stephen Levene and the Wallersteins on the death of Juliet Kalikow Levene. Rick, Maura, Bryan and Julia Nasti
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. A dear and courageous friend who surely will be missed. Our sympathy to the family. Shirley and Danny Rubin
      