
        ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. Of New York City. At age 85. Died on November 5, 2000. Survived by his wife, Charlotte, and his children, Katherine C.A. Young, James S. Armstrong, Jr., Stephen H. and Jeanne H. Armstrong, Robert S. & Phoebe H. Armstrong & Elisabeth Armstrong-Bushey; also, his niece, Leslie Armstrong, eight grandchildren, a great-nephew and two great nieces, among many other loving family members. Services private. A memorial gathering will be scheduled at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Harvard Library in New York, 27 West 44th Street, New York, New York 10036, or to Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 for the J. Sinclair Armstrong Revolving Student Loan Fund.
        ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. The Saint Andrew's Society of the State of New York mourns the death of its esteemed member and Past President whose love of Scottish heritage and dedication to the charities of the Society will be long and gratefully remembered. The officers, managers and members of the Society extend their heartfelt condolences to the Armstrong family. Roderick Errol Kerr, Jr., President Francis F. Bodkin, Jr., Secretary
        ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. The Board of Directors, members and staff of The English-Speaking Union of the United States are profoundly saddened by the death of our Chairman Emeritus, Sinclair Armstrong CBE, who shared his dedication, enthusiasm and vision with us for over 40 years. We extend our love and deepest sympathy to his wife Charlotte and his family and friends. William R. Miller OBE, Chairman Alice M. Boyne, Exec. Director
        ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. The Officers, Trustees, and members of the Chruch Club of New York are deeply saddened at the loss of their dear friend, colleague, and past president Sinc Armstrong. He honored and inspired everyone he knew by his presence among us. We shall not see his like again. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Stuart E. Prall, President The Church Club of New York
        ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. It is with great sadness that we note the passing of our former Governor and stalwart member, J. Sinclair Armstrong, and we offer our prayers and condolences for his widow and family. The Laymen's Club of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine Edward N. Lippincott, President Stanley M. Ackert III, Secretary
        ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. The Huguenot Society of America records with profound sorrow the death of J. Sinclair Armstrong, a Life Member since 1968, and former President, Chancellor and Historian. We shall miss his active dedication to our Society and his wise counsel. Courtney A. Haff, President
        ARMSTRONG-J. Sinclair. 15 October 1915-5 November 2000. The battle flag of the Committee To Oppose the Sale of St. Bartholomew's Church has been cased. We look forward with confidence to its unfurling in that kingdom which shall have no end. The Staff
      