
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved wife of Stephen M. Levene and widow of the late Harold J. Kalikow. Loving mother of Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein. Cherished grandmother of Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. Dear mother-in-law of Mary Kalikow and John Wallerstein. Devoted sister of Gertrude Blum, Harold Citrin, Renee Weil and Barbara Goldstein. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Juliet Kalikow Levene Memorial Fund, New York Presbyterian Hospital.
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. The Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York, acknowledges with deep regret the passing of Juliet Kalikow Levene, the mother of ABO Governor, Peter Kalikow. Juliet's death will forever leave a void in this great city which she and her family helped develop. Her warm spirit and generous soul will live within all of us in the real estate industry. Rest in peace. Michael Kerr, Co-Chairman Arnold Sollar, Co-Chairman Jerome Belson, President Nicholas LaPorte, Jr., Executive Director
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of Juliet Kalikow Levene. She is survived by her husband Stephen M. Levene, her children Peter S. Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein and grandchildren Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow and Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. The Hofstra community extends sincerest condolences to Hofstra Trustee Peter S. Kalikow and the Kalikow, Levene and Wallerstein families. James M. Shuart, President John J. Conefry, Jr. Chairperson, Board of Trustees Hofstra University
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. The Department of Pediatrics at New York-Presbyterian Hospital-Weill Cornell Medical Center is saddened to learn of the death of Juliet Kalikow Levene, mother of our friend and benefactor, Peter Kalikow. We send our condolences to her loving family and friends. Maria I. New, M.D., Chairman
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Our deepest regret and condolences to Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein and family on the loss of their respected mother. We shared many happy times together with their parents Juliet and Harold. Good memory will not be forgotten. Alice and Andrew Giffuni
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. In loving memory of a beloved sister-in-law and aunt. She was a lady to the manor born. She will be missed by all who knew her. Mrs. Sidney Kalikow and Family
      