
        GLICK-Frederick Philip. was born in Philadelphia, PA, on December 7, 1910, and died on October 3, 2000. His family and friends loved Fred dearly, and we greatly miss sharing time and conversations with him. We miss his warm smile, his enthusiasm for life and learning, and his kindness, support and devotion. Fred was admitted to Philadelphia's Central High School and he graduated in 1928 with literary, athletic, and academic distinctions. He received scholarships to attend the University of Pennsylvania, where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1932 and his law degree in 1935. He was elected to both Phi Beta Kappa and law honor societies, and he was managing editor of the Law Review. At Penn Law School Fred met Helen Lipschitz, and they married in 1936. Fred began his legal career assisting Professor Francis Bolen in authoritative work on tort law. He moved to New York City to work with Irving Lehman, then Chief Judge of the highest court in New York State. In 1943 Fred left positions in public utility law to be commissioned in the U.S. Navy. He received citation for ''his skilled judgement, superb professional ability and conscientious devotion...'' and he reached the rank of Lieutenant Commander by the end of World War II. Fred was in private law practice from the late 1940s, eventually founding Glick & Glick with Helen. In 1969 Fred moved to the firm that became Rogers & Wells, now merged in Clifford Chance Rogers & Wells, the world's largest law firm. As a partner at Rogers & Wells Fred created that firm's real estate department, which he chaired until retirement. Fred also received numerous awards lecturing for the Practising Law Institute. Additional community and philanthropic work included 47 years as an active trustee of Louise Wise Services, in New York City, and membership on the Planning Board for the Borough of Hillsdale, NJ. Fred and Helen had their home in Hillsdale from 1950 to 1998, when they moved to Dunwoody Village, in Newtown Square, PA. Fred remained active, playing tennis and serving as treasurer of the Dunwoody residents association until he suffered a stroke in July. Fred is survived by his wife, Helen; his son, Ned, of Vancouver, BC, and his daughter, Mary Gelbart, of Rehovot, Israel; their spouses and four grandchildren; and his sister, Rose Klein, of Elkins Park, PA. Donations can be made in memory of Fred Glick to the Dunwoody Memorial Garden, 3500 West Chester Pike, Newtown Square, Pennsylvania 19073.
      