
        EHRMAN-Edith K. Died on November 21 after a long life and a short illness. Predeceased by her parents, Jesse and Edith G. Koshland; by her husband, Frederick L. Ehrman; by her daughters, Edith Ehrman and Anita L. Ehrman; and by her sisters, Ruth K. Hellman and Frances K. Skipsey. Survived by her nephew, F. Warren Hellman; by her niece, Nancy H. Bechtle; by six great nephews and great nieces; and by thirteen great great nephews and great great nieces. Passionately interested in and profoundly generous to a myriad of charitable organizations, including The New York University Medical Center; The Mount Sinai Medical Center; The Lincoln Center Theater; and Playwrights Horizons. There will not be a funeral service. There may be a memorial service at a time and place yet to be determined.
        EHRMAN-Edith K. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of our dear friend, stalwart supporter, and generous benefactor, Edith K. Ehrman. Dede Ehrman was a Trustee of NYU Medical Center from 1973 to 1998, when she became a Life Trustee of Mount Sinai NYU Health. Her philanthropic efforts on behalf of NYU complemented those of her late husband, Frederick L. Ehrman, who was Chairman of the Board of Trustees of NYU Medical Center and a Trustee of New York University. Both were major contributors to the Medical Library, named the Frederick L. Ehrman Library, and to an endowed professorship in Cell Biology. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mrs. Ehrman's family and loved ones. Robert M. Glickman, M.D. Dean, NYU School of Medicine Theresa A. Bischoff, President NYU Hospitals Center
        EHRMAN-Edith K. The members of the Board and staff of Playwrights Horizons express profound sadness at the death of this kind and dear woman who was such a staunch, devoted and deeply engaged Board member and friend of the theater for more than two decades. Her pioneering support of our productions and of all of our endeavors provided the solid foundation for all that we do today. We shall never forget her enduring generosity. All of us who fervently believe in the importance of new work owe her an enormous debt of thanks and will miss her more than we can say. Judith O. Rubin, Chairman of the Board Tim Sanford, Artistic Director Leslie Marcus, Managing Director
        EHRMAN-Edith K. The Faculty of the Division of Social Work and Behavioral Science and the staff of the Edith K. Ehrman East Harlem Health Education Center Programs mourn the passing of Edith K. Ehrman. Dede Ehrman was deeply committed to providing opportunities for the children of East Harlem to continue their education, complete college and enter the health professions. She provided generous support and actively participated in the programs sponsored by the Center. She will be missed by all those who knew her. Our sincere condolences to her entire family. Gary Rosenberg, PhD. Directr Sue T. Cohen, Program Director
        EHRMAN-Edith K. The Mount Sinai Scholars Program at the Manhattan Center for Science and Mathematics High School mourn the loss of our benefactor and friend Edith K. Ehrman. Her generosity and caring has enriched our lives and we will miss her. Staff, Students and Alumni of The Mount Sinai Scholars Program
      