
        WOLFF-Susan Beres, November 14 at home. Devoted daughter of Elaine Beres and the late Herman Beres. Beloved wife of the late Michael Wolff. Dedicated mother of Russell Wolff and Joanna Wolff, mother-in-law of Patty Wolff and Scott Schneiferman. Loving companion of Stephen Feinberg. Grandmother of Lillian Schneiderman. She devoted her life to her family and friends. We love you and will miss you everyday of our lives. Funeral service are today 1:30 at Westchester Jewish Center, Palmer and Rockland Avenues, Mamaronek. 914-698-2960. For more information, Zion Memorial Chapel 1-888-381-1809 www.zionmemorialchapel.com WOLFF-Susan. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a dear friend, the beloved mother of Russell (Patricia) Wolff and Joanna (Scott) Schneiderman. A woman of compassion, she was a staunch supporter of our cancer research programs and among the first members of the advisory board to the Albert Einstein Comprehensive Cancer Center. Her husband, the late Michael Wolff, was a respected member of our Board of Overseers and a past chairman of our Men's Division, in whose honor a wing of the Men's Division Research Floor was named. To her children and the entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean WOLFF-Susan. To Russell, Patty, Joanna, Scott and Lily. Your strength is our strength, your loss is ours. Susan, a woman of care, concern, laughter and love, we will miss you so much. Find the old man and enjoy all the good times. Love, Barbara, Philip and all the children WOLFF-Susan. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Susan Wolff, and extend sincere condolences to her family. Paul N. Gardner, President WOLFF-Susan. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Russell (Patty) and Joanna (Scott). She fought a valiant battle and she left you a lifetime of wonderful memories. Love, Susan, Ben, David and Alison WOLFF-Susan. To the family of Susan Wolff. Susan, we will deeply miss your laughter, your friendship, and your guidance. We will never forget you. Leslie and Steve
      