
        DARSKY-Richard H. of Larchmont, NY died on the morning of Thursday, November 16 of complications of acute endocarditis. He had been ill for one month. Mr. Darsky, age 59, is survived by his wife of 29 years, Judith Hyman Darsky; children, Joel, Jonathan, and Ilana. Mr. Darsky was the son of Julius Darsky of Miami Beach, Florida, and the late Rose Darsky; brother of Carole Giller of Akron, Ohio, and Joan Paige, of Miami, Florida; and the son-in-law of Anita and the late Morris Hyman of Cincinnati, Ohio. Born on January 19, 1941 in Akron, Ohio, Mr. Darsky graduated from Buchtel High School in Akron in 1958; graduated with a BA degree in Finance from the Ohio State University in 1962; and a JD degree with honors from Fordham University in 1969. For 25 years he was associated with Lehman Brothers, Inc, directing their real estate workout and restructuring area, most recently as a Managing Director. Earlier he was associated with the New York law firm of Willkie Farr & Gallagher, where he practiced corporate and securities law. Among his civic and philanthropic activities, Mr. Darsky served on the Ohio State University Fisher College of Business Advisory Board Council; the Planning Board of the Town of Mamaroneck, NY; was a Board member of the Greater New York United Jewish Appeal-Federation and chaired the United Jewish Appeal-Federation Larchmont/Mamaroneck Campaign; was a soccer coach and member of the Board of Directors of the Westchester Youth Soccer League; and an Advisory Board member of the America Israel Cooperative Enterprise. Funeral services for Mr. Darsky will be held at noon on Sunday, November 19 at the Westchester Jewish Center, Rockland and Palmer Avenues, Mamaroneck, New York, Rabbi Jeffrey Sirkman officiating. Please call Fox Funeral Home, Larchmont, NY at 914-834-0144 for information. The family will be sitting shiva at the Darsky home in Larchmont. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that friends consider contributions either to The Institute for the Advancement of Education in Jaffa, 11 Pahad Yitzchak Street (Post Office Box 8216) Jaffa 61081 Israel, or to the United Way of Larchmont/ Mamaroneck (Richard H. Darsky Memorial Fund) 230 Larchmont Avenue, Larchmont, NY 10538 or to any charitable organization.
        DARSKY-Richard. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Judith, his children Joel, Jonathan and Ilana, and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Emeritus Katherine Teich, President Steven Chill, Chairman
      