
        OGILVY-Anne Cabot, 69, died November 13, 2000 after a brief illness. Mrs. Ogilvy's life combined family, professional and international aspects in a nearly classic 20th century style. Mrs. Ogilvy played an active role in Middle Eastern archaeological and academic studies, serving as an officer and trustee of ACOR (American Center of Oriental Research) in Amman, Jordan, and ASOR (American Schools of Oriental Research) headquartered in Boston. The daughter of Yale Professor and Mrs. Richard F. Flint, she was raised in New Haven, CT, and later attended Radcliffe College. While there she met and married Thomas D. Cabot, Jr. In 1957, she married David Ogilvy and moved to New York, where she raised her three children and attended graduate school. One of the pioneers of archaeological faunal analysis, she participated in numerous archaeological field excavations during the 1970's including notable excavations at Cesaraea, the Levant and Upper Egypt. She was one of the first women allowd on a classical site when she was invited to do faunal analysis at Stobi, in Macedonia. Mrs. Ogilvy joined the Board of ASOR in 1970, and has served as its Assistant Treasurer. In 1998, she received its Membership Service Award, in recognition of her exceptional contributions to ASOR's membership and programs. During the 1970's she served on the Board of the Albright Institute in Jerusalem. A trustee of ACOR for the past twenty years, Mrs. Ogilvy has served as Chair of the Library Committee and secretary of the Board. She worked to establish a comprehensive academic and archaeological library at ACOR's headquarters in Amman, Jordan. She traveled regularly to the Middle East to participate in inspection trips organized by ACOR's Committee on Archaeological Policy. In 1999, she visited more tha 60 sites in Jordan, Israel, Syria, Cyprus and the West Bank. Mrs. Ogilvy and her companion of twenty years, Dr. Keith Beebe, Professor emeritus of religion at Occidental College, worked together as archaeologists and had shared interests in Arab refugee and international Middle East issues. As Arabists, they actively supported education and training for young Arab archaeologists and researchers. Mrs. Ogilvy is survived by her children, Thomas D. Cabot, III,of Shelburne, VT, Moors Cabot Myers, of Hamilton, NY, Cecily Cabot Klingman, of Mendocino, CA, and eight grandchildren. Burial will be private. The family requests that contributions in Mrs. Ogilvy's memory be sent to: ACOR Library Fund, Boston University, 656 Beacon Street, 5th floor, Boston, MA 02215-2010.
      