
        CARSON-Joan Tavis. Of Newport Beach, California, widow of John Reese Carson, passed away on October 27, 2000. A native New Yorker, Joan Carol Tavis was born at home in Bayside, New York on December 25, 1933 to Greek and Italian parents. She was their third child, their second daughter. Joan graduated from high school in Hempstead, Long Island where she served as President of the Junior Debs. Joan moved from New York to the Pasadena area in 1955 where she worked for the President of Avon. In 1962, Joan married Jack Carson and in 1964, they founded Carson Industries. The company was sold in 1983 and in 1985, Joan and her husband relocated to Santa Barbara from San Marino. All through her life, Joan was an avid skier and tennis player and enjoyed a love for roses and her gardens. Joan was an accomplished photographer and painter. She described herself as ''a lady who paints''. Her paintings have been shown in galleries in Santa Barbara. In Santa Barbara, Joan enjoyed volunteer work and gave many hours to the Crisis Hot Line and to her work as an ombudsman-one of her favorite activities. Joan also served on the Women's Board of the Art Museum. Joan moved from Santa Barbara to Newport Beach in September 1998, where she was a member of the Balboa Bay Club and the Tennis Club. Joan leaves behind Kim Carson of Newport Beach, Eric and Jayne Carson of Yucaipa, California, and Carey Carson of Scottsdale, Arizona; six beloved grandchildren, Nicole, Matthew, Clayton and Kyle Carson of Yucaipa and Jennifer and Carlin Karr of Scottsdale as well as loving nieces, nephews and their children. She also leaves her brother, Mr. Stacy Tavis of Upland. She will be greatly missed by her family and friends. A memorial service will be held on Friday, November 3 at 1:00 PM at Pacific View Memorial Park at 3500 Pacific View Drive, Newport Beach, California. The family is asking that, in lieu of flowers, donations be made in the name of Joan Tavis Carson to the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, 3191 Airport Loop Drive, Costa Mesa, California 92626, phone number (714) 957-9157.
      