
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. It is with deep sorrow that the officers and trustees of the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture mourn the sudden passing of our beloved and esteemed President, Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler. One of the most influential figures of American Jewry, he served as President of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, the central body of Reform Judaism in North America, from 1973 to 1996. But his leadership and scope of vision were universal. From 1976 to 1978, he was Chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations. Rabbi Schindler served on the Board of the Memorial Foundation almost from its inception, was elected Vice President in 1988, Chairman of the Executive Committee in 1994, and President in 1996. Throughout his tenure as our President, he served conscientiously to strengthen the Foundation's efforts in reconstructing Jewish life in the aftermath of the Holocaust and in developing innovative programs to address the cultural needs of the Jewish people globally. He was a dedicated and creative leader and raised the Foundation to new levels of harmony, accomplishment, and international recognition. To his wife Rhea and children and grandchildren, we extend our sincerest condolences. May they take comfort from his lifelong dedication to k'lal Yisrael. Prof. Anita Shapira, Chairman, Executive Committee Dr. Jerry Hochbaum Executive Vice President
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. Union Temple of Brooklyn, mourns its dear friend, Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler. For 25 years of Holy Days and congregational events, he blessed us with his wisdom. He led our Reformed Movement with strength, courage and vision. With force and eloquence, he challenged us to bold forth an action to break down the walls of bigotry and exclusion. His deep and abiding love for Judaism and the Jewish people, moved him to relentless pursuit of justice and compassion as our faith teaches. Our hearts go out to his beloved Rhea, their children, and grandchildren. May his legacy continue to inspire us, and may his memory be a blessing throughout the generations to come. Dr. Linda Henry Goodman, Rabbi Dr. A. Stanley Dreyfus, Rabbi Emeritus Mr. Mike Baron, President
        SCHINDLER-Alexander M. The President and the Executive of the World Jewish Congress mourn the loss of WJC Vice President, Rabbi Alexander Schindler, a giant who cut through denominations in his love of Israel, of the Jewish people and individual Jews, a Rabbi to young and old, men and women, presidents and prime ministers, a fighter for human rights, Jewish rights, Zionist rights, a clarion voice for justice in an age where such voices are few, a kind voice, a teacher who tried to bring the Jewish past in an explicible manner to the Jewish people in the present. To Rhea, his life-long partner and our friend, to his son and daughters who follow in his footsteps, ''hamakom yenachem etchem toch shaar avelei Zion uJerushalyim''. We miss you Alex. Edgar M. Bronfman, President Israel Singer, Secretary General Evelyn Sommer, Chairman, American Section Elan Steinberg, Exec Director
        SCHINDLER-Alexander M. The Central Conference of American Rabbis is profoundly grieved by the loss of our colleague and friend, Rabbi Alexander Schindler, one of the giants of 20th Century American Judaism. An extraordinarily gifted leader and eloquent spokesman for our people, Alex brought vision, compassion, and courage to the sacred commitment of the Reform Rabbi. His initiatives in the areas of Zionism, Outreach and Youth have transformed our synagogues and all of Jewish life. Like Moses, Alex led us through many a desert toward a land of promise. We convey our sympathy to his precious wife, Rhea, who was always at his side, to our colleague, Rabbi Judith Schindler, to Elisa, Debra, Joshua, and Jonathan, and to all the Schindler family. Central Conference of American Rabbis Rabbi Charles A. Kroloff, Pres. Rabbi Paul J. Menitoff, Exec. V.P.
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The Officers, Trustees and Staff of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations profoundly mourn the death of our beloved president emeritus. A magnificent Jewish communal leader, his 25 years as our president marked an era of Reform Judaism's growth on the North American scene. He inaugurated numerous innovative and exciting programs, including Outreach and the publication of the first Liberal Torah Commentary. A charismatic and caring man of intellect and integrity, his legacy as an Ohev Yisrael, a lover of Israel, the land and the people, will remain as a blessing always. The family has requested contributions to the UAHC Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler Outreach Program. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his widow, Rhea, his children, grandchildren and sister. Russell Silverman, Chairman Rabbi Eric H. Yoffie, President Rabbi Lennard R. Thal, Vice Pres.
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. With deeply felt sadness, the Officers and Board of Directors of Women of Reform Judaism, The Federation of Temple Sisterhoods, mourn the loss of one of Reform Judaism's greatest leaders, Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler. Guiding Reform Judaism with enormous courage, vision and eloquence, Rabbi Schindler introduced greater inclusiveness, championed expanded opportunities for women and staunchly supported women of Reform Judaism, in its major role in the Jewish community. Rabbi Schindler's words, deeds and spirit touched and stretched our minds and hearts, leaving an indelible imprint. Indeed, he made the world a better place. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Rhea and his dear children and grandchildren. Judith Silverman, President Ellen Y. Rosenberg, Exec Director
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. The American Jewish Committee expresses its heartfelt condolences on the passing of Rabbi Alexander Schindler, international Jewish statesman and religious leader. As President of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, Chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations, and President of The Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture, Rabbi Schindler served the Jewish community with distinction and effective leadership. The entire Jewish people is deeply indebted to him for his leadership in American Jewish-Israeli affairs. We extend our sincere sympathies to his grieving family. Bruce M. Ramer, President Shulamit Bahat, Acting Executive Director
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. Congregation Rodeph Sholom joins the Reform Jewish community and the world in mourning the death of our visionary leader, Rabbi Alexander Schindler. As president of the UAHC and Conference of Presidents, Alex was integrally involved in the search for peace in the Middle East, social justice, Jewish vitality and Outreach. We will always be grateful for his leaderhip and love. May his loved ones be conforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Mark Biderman, President
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. The Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany (Claims Conference) records with profound sorrow the passing of a dedicated member of its Board of Directors who tirelessly devoted his energies for the benefit of Holocaust survivors. We will miss his wise counsel. We extend heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife and family. Rabbi Israel Miller, President Gideon Taylor, Executive Vice President Saul Kagan, Executive Vice President Emeritus
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The Officers, Board & the staff of the North American Federation of Temple Brotherhoods and the Jewish Chautauqua Society, mourn the untimely passing of Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, past President of the union of American Hebrew Congregations. He will be remembered for his courageous and outstanding leadership in American religious life. Irving B. Shnaider, President Thomas E. Wiener, 1st Vice Pres Stuart J. Aaronson, Chancellor Douglas E. Barden, Exec Director
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The Members, Board and Officers of the American Conference of Cantors acknowledges with deep sorrow the untimely passing of Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, President Emeritus of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations. A heroic champion of Reform Judaism and Ohev Yisrael. Cantor Judith K. Rowland Interim President Cantor Scott E. Colbert Executive Vice President
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. The entire staff of Colliers ABR, Inc. mourns the loss of Rabbi Alex Schindler, father of our friend and colleague, Jonathan Schindler. We will miss Rabbi Schindler for his many selfless contributions to the world but also for his delightful unannounced visits to our offices and the genuine devotion he demonstrated toward his son. He was a great man.
      