
        DUHL-Benjamin. On Nov. 23, 2000, peacefully at age 91. Loving husband of Shirley Katz Duhl and the late Ethel Cohen Duhl. Devoted father of Janet Spector (Dr. Joseph) and Roger Duhl (Diane Wild). Cherished grandfather of Douglas M. Spector (Ossie), Lisa Spector Rothkrug (Adam), Dana Spector Kimmel (Scott), Alexandra Duhl and Danielle Duhl. Greatgrandfather of Daniel, Eric and Sara Spector, Rachel and Emily Rothkrug, and Jack, David and Lily Kimmel. Burial private. Shiva will be observed Sunday evening, Monday and Tuesday at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Spector.
        DUHL-Benjamin. Ben was a best friend since before I could vote. Our friendship not only survived nearly seven decades, it grew stronger in ground that is often too rocky for most friendships even to survive. After a lifetime of business partnership, there never was a day that he did not earn my respect for his acumen and his integrity all over again. Sylvia and I offer our deepest sympathy to Shirley, Janet and Roger. We feel that we better understand their loss than anybody else. I will miss his friendship and his counsel and his lessons in generosity. But at the same time I know that Ben will remain with all of us everyday. Sylvia and Lew Lubitz
        DUHL-Benjamin. The Officers, Directors, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center express their heartfelt sympathy at the passing of Benjamin Duhl. He will long be remembered as a founding supporter and staunch advocate of our center. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire family. Joseph Gurwin, President Alfred W. Levy, Chairman of the Board Herbert H. Friedman, Executive Vice President
        DUHL-Benjamin. The American Friends of Livnot U'Lehibanot mourns the loss of a dear friend and the Jewish community a great philanthropist. Our sincere condolences to his wife Shirley and to their family. The American Friends of Livnot U'Lehibanot Irving L. Bernstein, Chairman Ira Kellman, President Carla Klein, Associate Director
        DUHL-Benjamin. We note with sorrow the passing of our longtime Trustee Benjamin Duhl. He was a great friend and supporter for more than 30 years. We extend our most sincere condolences to his wife, Shirley, and his family. North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman, Board of Trustees John S.T. Gallagher, CEO
        DUHL-Benjamin. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Benjamin Duhl and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary
        DUHL-Ben. Dear Ben, you made the world a better place. Tubby and Elaine
      