
        AUSTIN-Lyn. The Hale Matthews Foundation mourns with profound saddness the loss of this extraordinary person of the theatre, whose work we were proud to support over many years. Lyn was very special-a loyal and witty friend, an intuitive and brilliant producer, and, above all, a believer in the power and value of the artist. She remained all her life dedicated to the theatre as one of the highest forms of art. In a world in which mediocrity is too often praised, Lyn held to a purer, higher standard and enabled artists to work at their most unfettered creative best. She will be missed by us all, and we send our sympathy to Diane Wondisford and Lyn's family. William Ashbey, President Richard Hewitt Helen Brann Faith Stewart-Gordon Frances Scaife
        AUSTIN-Lyn. For almost 40 years my life has been enriched by my friendship with Lyn. A brave risk taker, she encouraged me to leave the relative security of a job and start my own business; in personal matters she enlivened our lunch meetings with advice both funny and pertinent, but always in some way grounded by her innate sense of the order of things. I watched her dedication to her work with awe, and sometimes alarm, as there was little she would not sacrifice to an artist's work if she believed in it. In a noisy world, Lyn was quiet, passionate about the theatre as an endlessly creative form, and ultimately one of a kind. Many of us who knew Lyn well over the years will miss her deeply, and certainly I will find life diminished by her loss. Helen Brann The Helen Brann Agency, Inc.
        AUSTIN-Lyn. The Board, staff and 400 members of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York mourn the passing of Lyn Austin, founder of Music-Theater Group and one of the theatre world's few genuine visionaries. Her commitment to innovation and excellence resulted in some of the most important productions of the past 30 years. While Lyn's death is a tremendous loss, in the work she produced and the artists she nutured, she has left behind a legacy that will inspire artists and audiences for decades to come. We send our heartfelt condolences to her partner, Diane Wondisford, and her brother, John.
        AUSTIN-Lyn. The Board, staff and artists of Music-Theatre Group are deeply saddened by the sudden death on October 29th of its innovative leader and fearless founder. Her 30 years of productions and creative use of artists are unique in the American theater. A funeral service will be held at St. James Church, 71st and Madison, on Saturday, November 4 at 2PM. A memorial tribute will be announced later. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the Music-Theatre Group Fund For New Work, 30 West 26 Street, suite 1001, New York, New York 10010.
      