
        CAULKINS-Dixie Thompson, who played a prominent role in women's volunteerism in New York for three decades, died November 4 at her home on Jupiter Island, Florida. She was 84, and the cause was complications from ovarian cancer. Born in Honolulu, of a leading kaamaina family, she attended Punahou School there, then the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, CT and the Sorbonne in Paris. She was a member of The Daughters of Hawaii and was also inducted into the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem. After her first husband Samuel Carnes Collier died in 1950, she moved her family from Florida to New York City and began her long association with a number of its prominent volunteer organizations. After her marriage to H. Whitfield Carhart in 1952, she became most closely identified with The Boys Club of New York, where she served for many years as President of the Women's Board, directing their volunteer activities. She also held a leading volunteer role at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital, chairing the annual Ball of the Roses benefit, and after her husband died in 1977, succeeding as a Trustee until her resignation several years ago. In 1979, she married Dan Platt Caulkins, who died in 1995. Loved by her family and many friends for her great style and wit, and admired for her refined taste and lively dinner parties that often benefited her charities, Dixie also possessed great resilience and an infectious ''joie de vivre'' that created an atmosphere of fun and happiness for those around her. She is survived by her sister Barbara Thompson of Honolulu, her three sons, Richard Collier and Thomas Carhart of New York and Terry Collier of Palm Beach, as well as ten grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. One son Samuel Carnes Collier Jr., and her stepdaughter Elizabeth Morris Carhart, predeceased her. In lieu of flowers, her family requests donations please be sent to either of the above organizations. Memorial services will be held at 5PM, on December 11, at Christ Memorial Chapel on Jupiter Island, Florida.
        CAULKINS-Dixie. The Board of Directors of The Maternity Center Association (MCA) mourns the passing of Dixie Caulkins, mother of Thomas Carhart, MCA's President, and extend their deepest sympathy to her family and friends.
      