
        EHRMAN-Edith K. Died on November 21 after a long life and a short illness. Predeceased by her parents, Jesse and Edith G. Koshland; by her husband, Frederick L. Ehrman; by her daughters, Edith Ehrman and Anita L. Ehrman; and by her sisters, Ruth K. Hellman and Frances K. Skipsey. Survived by her nephew, F. Warren Hellman; by her niece, Nancy H. Bechtle; by six great nephews and great nieces; and by thirteen great great nephews and great great nieces. Passionately interested in and profoundly generous to a myriad of charitable organizations, including The New York University Medical Center; The Mount Sinai Medical Center; The Lincoln Center Theater; and Playwrights Horizons. There will not be a funeral service. There may be a memorial service at a time and place yet to be determined.
        EHRMAN-Edith K. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health and Mount Sinai School of Medicine deeply mourn the passing of Edith K. Ehrman, an extremely generous long-time benefactress. Her outstanding philanthropy at Mount Sinai included the establishment of The East Harlem Health and Education Center to improve the quality of life of residents in the community, and support for many other important health and scientific programs. Mrs. Ehrman will be remembered fondly with gratitude for her generosity and will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Ehrman family. Stephen M. Peck, Chair Mount Sinai NYU Health Helene Kaplan, Chair Mount Sinai School of Medicine Barry R. Freedman, Acting Pres. The Mount Sinai Hospital Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        EHRMAN-Edith K. The Board of Lincoln Center Theater is deeply saddened by the death of Director Edith Ehrman. Didi was a very devoted Trustee who took great pleasure in being on the Board and was a most enthusiastic audience for the theater's productions. She was generous, stylish and her participation in the life of this theater suited her very well. She will be greatly missed. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Exec. Producer The Directors and staff of Lincoln Center Theater
      