
        HERMELIN-David B. The officers, Board of Trustees, and staff of United Jewish Communities deeply mourn the passing of Ambassador David B. Hermelin, a beloved friend and colleague, one of the world's great philanthropic leaders, and a devoted supporter of Israel and the Jewish people. A renowned local, national and international leader, David's dedication to many charitable causes was legendary, and his commitment lives on in the work of many institutions in Israel and his own community of Detroit. He was a UJA National Vice Chairman, member of the Board of Trustees and Campaign Cabinet, and served as Chairman of the Israel 50th Anniversary Committee. He served as International Chairman of State of Israel Bonds, President Emeritus of World ORT Union and President of American ORT Federation. David's leadership also included the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, Hebrew University, Weizmann Institute, Bar-Ilan University, HIAS, and United Synagogue for Conservative Judaism. Locally, he played leading roles as Vice President of the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit, Chairman of the Federation's Annual Campaign, President of the Jewish Home and Aging Services, President of Congregation Shaarey Zedek, Board Member of Children's Hospital of Michigan, National Co-Chair for Major Gifts at the University of Michigan from which he received an Honorary Doctorate, Chairman of the Special Advisory Council of the Karmanos Cancer Institute, and much more. He was nominated by President Clinton in October 1997 to serve as America's Ambassador to Norway, a position he held until January 2000, when he resigned for medical reasons. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Doreen, their five children and five grandchildren. Charles R. Bronfman, Chairman of the Board Joel D. Tauber, Chairman, Executive Committee Stephen D. Solender, President and CEO
        HERMELIN-David B. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of American ORT, deeply mourn the passing of its longtime generous supporter and friend who served as President of American ORT from 1987 to 1991 and President of World ORT from 1993 to 1997 and was the recipient of the 1999 American ORT William Haber Award for outstanding service. President Clinton appointed him Ambassador to Norway in 1997, a position he held until his resignation in January 2000. Born and raised in Detroit, MI, David was a well-known philanthropist and charismatic leader. He has long been active in ORT, as well as in many other Jewish organizations. In June 1997, the Hermelin ORT Academic College in Netanya, Israel was dedicated to David and Doreen Hermelin. The full campus as officially opened in October 2000. A prominent real estate developer, he was a partner in Palace Sports and Entertainment, Inc., which ownes The Palace of Auburn Hills, as well as The Pine Knob Music Theater, in Michigan. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Doreen, five children, Marcie, Karen, Brian, Julie and Francine, and eight grandchildren. Robert L. Sill, President Joe Cohen, First V.P. Brian J. Strum, Exec V.P. Paul Bernick, Exec. Dir. Emeritus Alvin Gray, Past Pres. Paul Borman, Past Pres. Michael Stoler, Past Pres.
        HERMELIN-David. World ORT deeply mourns the passing of our former President David Hermelin. Fully identifying with ORT's educational aims, David Hermelin worked tirelessly for our organisation as a lay leader, serving as President of World ORT from 1993 until his appointment as US Ambassador to Norway in 1997. His charisma and his passion inspired and enthused all those who came under his spell. Our organisation was privileged to have him as a leader: his counsel, his friendship, his energy and his warmth will be sadly missed by all those who knew him and who worked with him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his dear wife Doreen, his children, grandchildren and their families. Justice Richard Goldstone, (S Africa), President Sir Maurice Hatter (UK), Deputy President Zalman Shalev (Israel), Chairman, General Assembly Mauricio Merikanskas (Mexico), Chairman Board of Directors Reese Feldman (USA), Chairman, Executive Committee Robert Singer, Director General World ORT
        HERMELIN-David B. The Executive Committee, management, faculty and students of ORT Israel are in mourning over the untimely death of Ambassador David Hermelin, past President of American ORT and World ORT. Ambassador Hermelin was a friend and supporter of ORT Israel. It was his vision and devotion to the people of Israel and to the ORT Israel community that resulted in the construction of the beautiful ORT college campus in Netanya that bears his name. David Hermelin was present at the first dedication of the college, June 1997. His illness prevented him from attending the inauguration of the campus on October 22, 2000. His daughter, Julie, represented the family at the celebration. We salute David Hermelin in his passing and extend our affection and condolences to his wife, Doreen, his son, daughters, and grandchildren. May the Lord console you amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Uziel Steinberg, President Zalmen Shalev, Chairman Haim Ben-Ami, Director General
        HERMELIN-David B. The officers and staff of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of Ambassador David B. Hermelin, a protean force and inspiring leader. His enthusiasm, warm humor and humanity delighted and touched all who knew him. As National Campaign Chairman, International Chairman and Chairman of the Board, he contributed greatly to the success of our enterprise and the economic growth and development of Israel. He set an exemplary standard of dedication to the finest traditions and highest values of public service and community involvement. Our loss is irreparable. May Doreen and his family be consoled among the mourners of Zion and may his memory be for a blessing. Gideon Patt President and CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Michael Siegal Vice Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg National Campaign Chairman
        HERMELIN-David B. Women's American ORT joins the worldwide ORT family in mourning the passing of David Hermelin, a man of boundless energy in his leadership within the Jewish community and beyond. The Hermelin ORT Academic College in Netanya, Israel, dedicated to David and Doreen Hermelin, is a tribute to his generosity and his ability to inspire others to join him in his vision for making a difference in the world. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his wife, Doreen, their five children and eight grandchildren. Pepi Dunay, President Carol Linch, First V.P. Alice Herman, Executive Director
        HERMELIN-David B. The Jewish Theological Seminary community records with sorrow the death of Ambassador David B. Hermelin. He devoted his life to helping others, making the giving of charity his personal ethos. He played an important role at JTS. Moreover, his work in support of synagogue affiliation made a national impact on the Jewish people. He is survived by his wife, Doreen, their five children and five grand children. May his memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Chairman
        HERMELIN-David. Our hearts go out to all of the Hermelin family and friends who mourn the loss of a truly exceptional human being. We will never forget David's humor, wit, compassion and hospitality. His love and passion for life were contagious. He was the most down-to-earth person we've ever known and yet somehow, at the same time, he always seemed larger than life. We will miss him and remember him always. Shari and Gary Korn
      