
        WOODSIDE-William Stewart, of Scottsdale, AZ and Litchfield, CT, formerly of New York City, on November 15, 2000 of chronic pulmonary lung disease, at home in the arms of his loving wife, Migs. A deeply loved and loving husband, companion and closest friend for 30 years to his wife. Beloved father of William S. Woodside III, Anne D. Gruzdowich and Samuel T. Woodside. Generous, caring and loving stepfather of Geoffrey Dann and Deborah Dann, and caring father-in-law to Terri Woodside and Lauri Novick. Proud and delighted grandfather of Benjamin and Jacob Woodside, Rebecca and Emily Dann, and also Emily and Nicholas Gruzdowich. Devoted brother-in-law of Lewis W. Bernard. A man of enormous accomplishment and achievement, extraordinary intellect and talent, whose incredible courage and determination in spite of physical adversity was an inspiration to all. Good night sweet prince, may flights of angels see you to your dreams. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, November 29th at 9:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Please send contributions to the Children of Alcoholics Foundation, C/O Phoenix House, 164 W. 74th St., New York, New York 10024.
        WOODSIDE-William S. The Graduate Center of The City University of New York mourns the passing of William S. Woodside, long time member and former chairperson of our Board of Visitors, whose wise counsel and commitment to our ideals is remembered with great appreciation. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Frances Degen Horowitz President
        WOODSIDE-William Stewart. Gallant husband of Migs. Concerned stepfather to Geoffrey and Debbie. Son-in-law to be proud of. Bill Woodside was a true humanitarian; foremost business leader; advocate of effective education; devotee of the arts, literature and good government. He was the most ERUDITE person I ever met. We will miss him. Herbert C. Bernard
        WOODSIDE-William S. The Board and staff of the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation express our sorrow at the death of our former Board member, Bill Woodside. He was a wise and valued colleague, committed to improving educational opportunities for low-income people. We send our deepest condolences to his family.
        WOODSIDE-William s. Former employees of the American Can Company regretfully note the passing of William s. Woodside, former Chairman and CEO, on November 15, 2000. Memorial services will be held November 29 at 9:30 AM in the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, Madison Avenue and 81st Street, New York City.
      