
        WOODSIDE-William Stewart, of Scottsdale, AZ and Litchfield, CT, formerly of New York City, on November 15, 2000 of chronic pulmonary lung disease, at home in the arms of his loving wife, Migs. A deeply loved and loving husband, companion and closest friend for 30 years to his wife. Beloved father of William S. Woodside III, Anne D. Gruzdowich and Samuel T. Woodside. Generous, caring and loving stepfather of Geoffrey Dann and Deborah Dann, and caring father-in-law to Terri Woodside and Lauri Novick. Proud and delighted grandfather of Benjamin and Jacob Woodside, Rebecca and Emily Dann, and also Emily and Nicholas Gruzdowich. Devoted brother-in-law of Lewis W. Bernard. A man of enormous accomplishment and achievement, extraordinary intellect and talent, whose incredible courage and determination in spite of physical adversity was an inspiration to all. Good night sweet prince, may flights of angels see you to your dreams. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, November 29th at 9:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Please send contributions to the Children of Alcoholics Foundation, C/O Phoenix House, 164 W. 74th St., New York, New York 10024.
        WOODSIDE-William S. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with deep regret the passing of William S. Woodside. Appointed to the Board of Trustees in March 1979, he served as Board President for five years, from 1985 until 1990, guiding the museum at a time of great challenges. Mr. Woodside's valued friendship, years of dedicated service, and many lasting contributions to the Whitney Museum will always be gratefully appreciated. Leonard A. Lauder, Board Chairman Joel S. Ehrenkranz, Board President Maxwell L. Anderson, Director
        WOODSIDE-William S. The Board of Directors, staff, and residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of our former board member William S. Woodside, who shared a long-time commitment to our institution with his wife Migs. An outstanding business leader, Bill was a thoughtful advisor and loyal supporter, whose generosity, vision, and compassion contributed much to the growth of Phoenix House.
        WOODSIDE - William S. The Academy of Political Science extends its deepest condolences to the family of William S. Woodside. A former Chairman of the Board of Directors, he has been a generous benefactor and steadfast supporter of the Academy, and a beloved colleague. George B. Munroe, Chairman Board of Directors Demetrios J. Caraley, Pres.
        WOODSIDE-William Stewart. Gallant husband of Migs. Concerned stepfather to Geoffrey and Debbie. Son-in-law to be proud of. Bill Woodside was a true humanitarian; foremost business leader; advocate of effective education; devotee of the arts, literature and good government. He was the most ERUDITE person I ever met. We will miss him. Herbert C. Bernard
      