
        DUHL-Benjamin. On Nov. 23, 2000, peacefully at age 91. Loving husband of Shirley Katz Duhl and the late Ethel Cohen Duhl. Devoted father of Janet Spector (Dr. Joseph) and Roger Duhl (Diane Wild). Cherished grandfather of Douglas M. Spector (Ossie), Lisa Spector Rothkrug (Adam), Dana Spector Kimmel (Scott), Alexandra Duhl and Danielle Duhl. Greatgrandfather of Daniel, Eric and Sara Spector, Rachel and Emily Rothkrug, and Jack, David and Lily Kimmel. Burial private. Shiva will be observed Sunday evening, Monday and Tuesday at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Spector.
        DUHL-Benjamin. The Board of Directors and Staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Benjamin Duhl. An esteemed leader & major supporter of our mission for more than 45 years. He served as General Chairman of the Board of Governors and Director of the Advisory Council of UJA of Greater New York and UJA-Federation of New York as well as on the boards of the American-Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, the Long Island Medical Center and the Samuel Field Y. Through UJA-Federation's project renewal initiatives in Israel, Benjamin helped to build the Benjamin Duhl Center for the Performing Arts in the Hatikvah neighborhood of Tel Aviv. On Long Island he chaired the North Shore Real Estate Committee and the Long Island Great Neck Campaign. His inspiration as a devoted community member and philanthropist was passionate and stands as a beacon within the Jewish community. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. May all who benefitted from Benjamin's kindness and wisdom be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jeruselem. James S. Tisch, President Larry Ziklin, Board Chair Arthur M. Katz, Chair LI Cabinet John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Simon Kaminetsky, Regional Dir, LI
        DUHL-Benjamin. The American Committee for The Tel Aviv Foundation mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved board member, Benjamin Duhl. Ben's special relationship with the City of Tel Aviv-Jaffa began with his strong committment to UJA Project Renewal and ultimately, the construction of the Duhl Auditorium in Hatikva neighborhood. When his beautiful building was seriously damaged during a Scud Missile attack, Ben, together wth Project Renewal supporters, provided the funds necessary to repair it. He continued to stay involved and supported the center and its activities. Last year, Ben celebrated his 90th birthday together with the City of Tel AvivJaffa, born in the same year, 1909. To his wife Shirley, his children Roger and Janet and their families, we wish to express our heartfelt sympathies. Ron Huldai, Mayor of Tel AvivJaffa and International Chairman of the Tel Aviv Foundation Shlomo Lahat, Former Mayor and Founding Chairman David Harnik, Managing Director Ira D. Riklis, Chairman of the American Committee for the Tel Aviv Foundation Jeannie Gerzon, Exec. Director
        DUHL-Benjamin. Boys Town Jerusalem records with great sorrow the passing of a most cherished member of its extended family. A revered member of Boys Town's Board of Directors for more than three decades, Ben's wise counsel was held in highest regard. His generous support enabled Boys Town to fulfill its mission of turning young boys from limited backrounds into young men with limitless futures. Ben was a loyal friend and ardent supporter of the State of Israel and the Jewish people. His enthusiasm and role-model leadership inspired others to follow his example of tzedakah. Ben's sincerity and kindness, coupled with his warm sense of humor, earned him the respect and admiration of all who were privileged to know him. He will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his entire family and pray that they be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Michael J. Scharf, President Raphael Benaroya, Chairman Josh S. Weston, Hon. Chairman Rabbi Ronald Gray, Exec. V.P.
        DUHL-Benjamin. A pillar of the Palm Beach Campaign for the UJA-Federation of New York, will be greatly missed for his dedication, committment and generosity to our campaign. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. UJA Federation of NY Palm Beach Campaign Committee Joseph Gurwin Sidney Jacobson Morton Kornreich Nancy Oelbaum Harold Oelbaum Cecil Rudnick Joseph E. Saul Elaine Winik Shoshanna Wingate
        DUHL-Benjamin. We mourn the untimely passing of a giant in the world of business and philanthropy. This generation, and certainly the next, will be hard put to find his equal. He was an uncommon model of honesty, integrity and fairness in his business relationships. His big heart and open hand guided his very substantial giving to those most in need. He will be missed and long remembered by all who had the privilege to know him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the family. San Carlos Hotel, NY Hy Arbesfeld, President
        DUHL-Benjamin. The Partners and Associates of Robinson Silverman Pearce Aronsohn & Berman LLP mourn the passing of our longtime client and friend. For more than 40 years, he taught us the true meaning of life. We extend our sincere condolences to Shirley, Roger, Janet & his family.
        DUHL-Ben. We were fortunate to know you and be inspired by your dedication to the Jewish community. Deepest sympathy to our dear friends Janet and Joe Spector and their family. Joan and Sol Wachtler
        DUHL-Benjamin. Our dearest friend for over 60 years. We will miss you. Lucille & Ed Kimmel
      