
        HERMELIN-David B. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of our dear friend, longtime supporter, and former member of the Michigan Region Board of Directors, Ambassador David Hermelin. A constant source of inspiration and encouragement, David Hermelin believed passionately in strengthening Israel through science and technology research. He was a tireless philanthropic leader, whose efforts touched the lives of countless individuals. Amb. Hermelin was devoted to the mission of the American Committee for the Weizmann Institute, furthering science for the benefit of humanity. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife Doreen, their children and the entire Hermelin family. Robert H. Asher, Chairman American Committee Albert Willner, M.D., President Martin Kraar, Exec. V.P. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Haim Harari, President
        HERMELIN-David B. The officers and staff of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of Ambassador David B. Hermelin, a protean force and inspiring leader. His enthusiasm, warm humor and humanity delighted and touched all who knew him. As National Campaign Chairman, International Chairman and Chairman of the Board, he contributed greatly to the success of our enterprise and the economic growth and development of Israel. He set an exemplary standard of dedication to the finest traditions and highest values of public service and community involvement. Our loss is irreparable. May Doreen and his family be consoled among the mourners of Zion and may his memory be for a blessing. Gideon Patt President and CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Michael Siegal Vice Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg National Campaign Chairman
        HERMELIN-David B. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the untimely passing of Ambassador David Hermelin, who served his country, his people and his Creator with devotion, love and commitment. His warmth, wit and humor endeared him to all. The students of Boys Town were privileged to be among the many beneficiaries of his philanthropy. His support was always offered in honor of his father, fulfilling the mitzvah of tzedakah and kibud av. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his family and pray that they will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Michael J. Scharf, President Raphael Benaroya, Chairman Josh S. Weston, Hon. Chairman Rabbi Ronald Gray, Exec. V.P.
      