
        HOLLISTER-Juliet G. Died November 26 at home of cancer after a brief illness. Born October 30, 1916, Forest Hills, Long Island, daughter of James and Dorothy Garretson. Married to Dickerman Hollister, from 1939 until his death in 1983. Graduated from Ethel Walker, 1934; Frobel League, 1937; Honorary Degree, The New Seminary, New York. Founder and Chairman of the Board of The Temple of Understanding, an interfaith, educational organization that included major world political and religious leaders. Under her leadership, The Temple sponsored a number of acclaimed symposia and educational projects. Recipient: Governor Grosso Meritorious Service Award, 1979; Eleanor Roosevelt Award, Center for International Dialogue, 1994; Albert Schweitzer Prize for the Humanities, 1995. Board of Directors: Wainwright House, Center for Soviet-American Dialogue; American Teilhard Association for the Future of Man. Founding member of Green Fingers Garden Club, member of Colony Club. She is survived by three children: G. Clay Hollister, Chevy Chase, MD; Catharine H. Ecton, Cabin John, MD; Dickerman Hollister, Greenwich, CT. She had six grandchildren and four great grandchildren. Memorial Services will be at Second Congregational Church on November 30 at 11:30AM. The family has requested that in lieu of flowers contributions be made in her name to The Temple of Understanding (720 Fifth Ave, 16 floor, NY, NY 10019) or the American Cancer Society.
        HOLLISTER-Juliet. The Board of Directors, The International Council and the Council of Trustees of The Temple of Understanding deeply mourn the passing of our founder, Juliet Hollister. As we grieve her loss, we also celebrate with great joy and gratitude her extraordinary life, profound contributions to and lasting influence on the causes of international interfaith dialogue and global peace. Through her close friendships with Eleanor Roosevelt, Mother Teresa, His Holiness the XIVth Dalai Lama, Pope John XXIII, Swami Satchidananda, Dr. Albert Schweitzer, Anwar el-Sadat, Jawarhalal Nehru to name just a few, she drew the support necessary to bring to fruition her great vision of a ''spiritual UN'' which in 1960 was founded as the Temple of Understanding, headquartered in NY and which continues to do great work of the modern interfaith movement through education about the world's religious and spiritual communities. We will miss Juliet, but the work will continue with her as an inspiration and teacher to all. Dr. Karan Singh, Chairman Jack Blessington, President
      