
        WALTER-Henry G., Jr. The Trustees and staff of the American Museum of Natural History are deeply saddened by the death of esteemed Honorary Trustee, Henry G. Walter, Jr. Hank joined the Board of Trustees in 1972, serving as Vice President of the Board from 1981-1988. An active Trustee with service on numerous committees, Hank was elected an Honorary Trustee in 1996. We will all remember Hank for his deep love of science, his interest in the natural world, and his unstinting willingness to share his time and wisdom to advance the Museum's mission whenever and wherever possible. On behalf of the entire Museum family, we extend our deepest sympathies and affection to his beloved wife, Rosalind, his son, Henry Glendon Walter III, his stepson, Henry S. Thompson, his sister Grace Waring Walter, his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Anne Sidamon-Eristoff, Chairman Ellen V. Futter, President WALTER-Henry G. Jr. The Board and staff of the International Tennis Hall of Fame express their sadness at the passing of Henry G. Walter, Jr. A great friend, Hank was a regular visitor to Newport and will be missed by all who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, longtime Board member Rosalind, and his family. John R. Reese, Chairman of the Exec. Committee Joseph F. Cullman, 3rd Chairman Emeritus Tony Trabert, Vice President WALTER-Henry G., Jr. The Trustees and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Library mourn the death of Henry G. Walter, Jr. He was a Fellow for 27 years and a Trustee for 20 years. Hank was a loyal, generous, and wise Trustee. We will greatly miss his commitment to the Morgan Library and his passionate belief in the achievements of Western civilization. We extend deepest sympathies to his wife, Roz, and his family. Charles E. Pierce, Jr., Director S. Parker Gilbert, President, Board of Trustees WALTER-Henry G., Jr. With deep sadness, the trustees and officers of Long Island University extend their heartfelt condolences and sympathies to their beloved fellow-trustee and colleague, Rosalind P. Walter, on the death of her husband. Hank and Roz have been first citizens and benefactors of this University in every respect. We shall miss him greatly, even as we share in her pain. Roger Tilles, Chair David Steinberg, President
      