
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved wife of Stephen M. Levene and widow of the late Harold J. Kalikow. Loving mother of Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein. Cherished grandmother of Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. Dear mother-in-law of Mary Kalikow and John Wallerstein. Devoted sister of Gertrude Blum, Harold Citrin, Renee Weil and Barbara Goldstein. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Juliet Kalikow Levene Memorial Fund, New York Presbyterian Hospital.
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of Peter S. Kalikow, chairman of its Corporate and Professional Division and founding chairman of its Real Estate and Construction Division. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Peter and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gideon Patt, President and CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg National Campaign Chairman Howard Hirsch, Chairman Metropolitan New York Region Daniel R. Tishman Chairman, Real Estate and Construction Division
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. The staff of H. J. Kalikow & Company mourns the loss of Juliet Kalikow Levene, mother of Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein, wife of Stephen M. Levene, mother-in-law of Mary J. Kalikow and John Wallerstein, loving grandmother of Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, and Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. We all feel a keen sense of loss with the passing of Mr. Kalikow's mother. She will be deeply missed. H. J. Kalikow & Co. Staff
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Juliet Kalikow Levene, beloved mother of Peter Kalikow. We extend our deepest condolences to Peter and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Our heartfelt sympathies go out to Stephen, Peter and Mary, Penny and John and the entire Kalikow, Levene and Wallerstein families on the passing of Juliet. She was a dear wife, mother, grandmother and friend who will be deeply missed but will live in our hearts and memories. The Mack family.
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of Juliet Levene, wife of Stephen Levene, a member of our club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Martin Rosenman, President Mark Claster, Secretary
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. The entire school community expresses its deepest sympathies and condolences to the family of Peter and Mary Kalikow for the great loss of a beloved mother and grandmother. Our hearts and love are with the family at this time of deep grief and sorrow. Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. New York-Presbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened by the death of Juliet Kalikow Levene, mother of our esteemed Trustee, Peter S. Kalikow. We join with those who mourn the passing of this gracious and valiant lady whose life touched so many. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her entire family.
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We are deeply sorrowed at the passing of a most elegant lady who was a devoted wife, mother and grandmother. Our sincerest condolences to the Levene and Wallerstein families, their grandchildren and to our dear friends Peter and Mary Kalikow and their children Nicholas and Kathryn. Sugar and Jerry Schrager
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. A beautiful lady. You will be greatly missed by all whose lives you have touched. Our hearts and love go to her husband Stephen, our dear friends Peter and Mary Kalikow and Penny and John Wallerstein and all of their grandchildren. Roberta and Ricky Brudner
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Our heartfelt sympathy to the entire Kalikow, Levene and Wallerstein families on the passing of Juliet Kalikow Levene, beloved mother, grandmother and wife. She was an inspiration to everyone. Dan, Peggy, David, John and Brendan Cremins
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We are deeply saddened and share our sincerest sympathies with the entire Wallerstein and Kalikow families on the loss of their beloved mother. Janis, Alan, Stacey and Michael Goldberg
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We wish to extend our deepest condolences to the Kalikow, Levine and Wallerstein families on the loss of Juliet Kalikow Levene. She will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved her. Harry and Linda Moehringer
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We extend our deepest sympathy to Peter Kalikow, Penny Wallerstein, Stephen Levene and their families on the loss of Juliet Kalikow Levene. She will be missed by all who had the privilege of knowing her. Greenberg Traurig, LLP
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved aunt-our heartfelt condolences to Peter, Mary, Penny, John, Stephen and all of Juliet's cherished grandchildren. She will be missed by all who knew her. Carol and Richard Kalikow and Family
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Kalikow family on the loss of Juliet Kalikow Levene. She will be missed by all of us who had the privilege of knowing her. Irving D. Alter Arthur S. Mantel
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We extend our deepest sympathy to Penny Wallerstein, Peter Kalikow and Stephen Levene on the loss of their beloved mother and wife. The Employees of William A. Schwarz & Son Corp.
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. With deepest sympathy to the Kalikow, Levene and Wallerstein families on the loss of their beloved mother, grandmother and wife Juliet. She will live on in our memories. Martin and Mary Ann McLaughlin
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. We are deeply saddened and share our sincerest condolences with the Kalikow family on the loss of Juliet Kalikow Levene. Nikki, Stephanie, Douglas and Allana Henkin
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. With deepest regrets to Peter, Mary, Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, Stephen Levene and the Wallersteins on the death of Juliet Kalikow Levene. Rick, Maura, Bryan and Julia Nasti
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. There was no one else like her. A one of a kind has gone and left an unfillable void in the lives of her family. Our thoughts are with you. The Jurist Family
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. My sincere sympathy to Steve, Peter and Penny. Juliet was a lovely, dear friend of mine for many years and I shall miss her. Mildred Levine
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. A great aunt with a lot of style. My love and heartfelt condolences to her husband Stephen, and my cousins Peter and Penny & their families. Bobby Wailes
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Our heartfelt sympathy to the entire family of a very special courageous woman who will be missed. Howard and Heide Lazar
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. A dear and courageous friend who surely will be missed. Our sympathy to the family. Shirley and Danny Rubin
        LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. A beautiful lady has left us with wonderful memories...not to be forgotten. Gloria and Morty Wolosoff
      