
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The officers, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities are deeply saddened by the passing of Rabbi Alexander Schindler, a progressive Jewish leader of great intellect and compassion. For more than two decades, Rabbi Schindler served with distinction as President of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, where he was committed to the continuity of the Jewish people through Reform Jewish outreach. He led the effort to attract intermarried and assimilated couples back to Jewish life and embraced the inclusion of women as Reform rabbis. At the same time, Rabbi Schindler served as Chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, where his leadership on behalf of Israel and American Jewry was widely respected. He was an eloquent spokesman for Jewish unity with Israel and issues related to peace in the Middle East. Rabbi Schindler also championed development of a positive partnership between federations and synagogues to create the strongest possible Jewish community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Rhea, his sister, children and grandchildren. Charles R. Bronfman, Chairman of the Board Joel D. Tauber, Chairman, Executive Committee Robert M. Schrayer, National Campaign Chairman Stephen D. Solender, President and CEO
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Chairs of the Board of Governors and Boards of Overseers, administration, faculty, staff and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, devoted alumnus of the College-Institute and President Emeritus of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations. A consecrated rabbi and preeminent Jewish leader, Rabbi Schindler's life served as a model of commitment to the Jewish people and Jewish continuity. His love of Judiasm was reflected in his dedication to Torah and its teachings. An ardent fighter for human rights and social justice, his devotion to freedom and equality for all was marked by his experience as a refugee from Nazi persecution. As a spokesperson of American Jewry, he expressed our ideals with abiding passion and sensitivity. We express our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Rhea, children and grandchildren whose loss we share. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman, Pres. Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritus Mr. Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
        SCHINDLER-Alexander Rabbi. ARZA/WORLD UNION, North America and the World Union for Progressive Judaism deeply mourn the death of our beloved friend, mentor and leader. Rabbi Schindler's special love for Israel and the Jewish people compelled him to establish ARZA. He was an historic figure. Many years from now our people will still recount his great achievements. We who worked with him daily for so many years will also recall with fondness his dazzling personality. We loved being with him. He radiated charisma, energy and warmth, and was a unique person. Dear Rhea, Elisa, Debra, Judith, Jonathan, Joshua and Eva, may you be comforted in the knowledge that your Alex was a giant of our people. We shall remember him always with abiding love. Rest in peace, dear friend. ARZA/WORLD UNION, N.A.: Philip Meltzer, President Rabbi Ammiel Hirsch, Executive Director WORLD UNION FOR PROGRESSIVE JUDAISM: Austin Beutel, President Rabbi Dow Marmur, Executive Director Rabbi Richard Hirsch, Honorary Life President
        SCHINDLER - Rabbi Alexander Moshe. Visionary poet and prophet, Rabbi Schindler guided the Reform Jewish movement, contributed to the enrichment of Jewish life, and bridged denominational differences for the sake of K'lal Yisrael. The world has lost a great fighter for social justice, and a brave defender of ethics and values that derive from the Hebrew prophets. A frequent guest on our pulpit, Alex was a wise arbiter and counselor. The members of Stephen Wise Free Synagogue will most remember Alex with gratitude for guiding our congregation through one of its darkest moments and setting our community on a course towards a luminous future. Rabbi Schindler's contribution to our congregation will forever be remembered, and his legacy will forever be a blessing. Our hearts go out to his beloved wife Rhea, to their children and grandchildren, and to his sister. Zecher Tzadik Livracha. Maron L. Waxman, President Gary M. Bretton-Granatoor, Senior Rabbi Balfour Brickner, Rabbi Emeritus Ellen L. Stettner, Cantor
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The officers and staff of UJA-Federation of New York join Jews worldwide in mourning the untimely passing of Rabbi Alexander Schindler. As president of The Union of American Hebrew Congregations (UAHC) and the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations, he was one of the preeminent American Jewish leaders, a constant voice for prophetic justice. He was a strong advocate for peace in the Middle East, as well as for Jewish unity. He provided leadership, wisdom, and vision in helping forge mutual understanding and tolerance among Jews of different streams. We will always be deeply indebted for his dedicated efforts in strengthening bonds between American and Israeli Jews. His words, deeds, and guidance will be sorely missed. May his loved ones be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair John Ruskay, Ex. VP & CEO
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The Officers, Trustees and Staff of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations profoundly mourn the death of our beloved president emeritus. A magnificent Jewish communal leader, his 25 years as our president marked an era of Reform Judaism's growth on the North American scene. He inaugurated numerous innovative and exciting programs, including Outreach and the publication of the first Liberal Torah Commentary. A charismatic and caring man of intellect and integrity, his legacy as an Ohev Yisrael, a lover of Israel, the land and the people, will remain as a blessing always. The family has requested contributions to the UAHC Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler Outreach Program. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his widow, Rhea, his children, grandchildren and sister. Russell Silverman, Chairman Rabbi Eric H. Yoffie, President Rabbi Lennard R. Thal, Vice Pres.
        SCHINDLER-Alexander M. Rabbi. The Rabbinate, Trustees, and members of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York mourn the death of Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler. He strode as a giant across the landscape of world Jewry during the latter decades of the twentieth century. As a champion of Judaism's timeless truths he was fearless, speaking to the critical issues of our time with impeccable integrity and unblemished courage. His legacy, like that of all great men and women, will long outlive his days upon this earth. With his family and our people, everywhere, we mourn his passing, consoled in the knowledge that his memory will endure as a lasting benediction. Rabbi Ronald B. Sobel Rabbi David M. Posner Rabbi Amy B. Ehrlich Rabbi Nadia E. Gold Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. With heartfelt sadness, the Officers, Trustees and staff of the Reform Pension Board mourn the loss of our friend and former Board Member, Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler. With his seemingly infinite skills and his Jewish heart he served the Reform Movement and Jews everywhere with great vision, dedication and understanding. We will miss his energy, his charisma, his commitment to Jewish and worldly needs, his poetic oratory, and most of all, Alex, the man. Those people that knew him, heard him speak, or met him, even briefly, were forever touched by his brilliance and his heart. May his memory be a blessing. Ronald M. Cohen, Chairman Rabbi Joseph Goldman, Vice Chairman Robert M. Koppel, Executive Dir.
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of Rabbi Alexander Schindler, one of the Jewish people's most gifted and visionary rabbis. Like our sages of old, he met the challenges of his day with bold initiatives, refusing to cling cautiously to the status quo. Our world is a more just, inclusive and enlightened place because of him. May we prove ourselves worthy of being called his disciples. Our hearts go out to his wife, Rhea, his daughter and our beloved former Associate Rabbi, Judith R. Schindler and the entire Shindler family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus Kenneth M. Chasen, Assoc Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Lown Cardiovascular Research Foundation and Lown Cardiovascular Center profoundly mourn the passing of our friend and benefactor Rabbi Alexander Schindler. As a dedicated member of our Board of Directors, Alex abundantly gave his gifts of wisdom, insight and principal, helping to make the Foundation and in deed the world, a better place. While missing Alex's wise counsel, grace and dignity, we shall everlastingly be guided by the monumental quality of his exemplary humanism. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Rhea and his dear children and grandchildren. Bernard Lown, M.D. Chairman Thomas B. Graboys, M.D. Pres. Sheldon Seevak, Exec. Chairman
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The World Zionist Organization and The Jewish Agency for Israel deeply mourn the loss of an outstanding Jewish leader, ardent supporter of Israel and great friend of the Jewish Agency for Israel, a visionary and a fighter, a man of values and integrity and of great love for the Jewish people. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. May his loved ones be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusaleum. World Zionist Organization and The Jewish Agency for Israel Alex Gross, Chairman of the Board of Governors Salai Meridor, Chairman of the Executive Chaim Chessler, Treasurer
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The UAHC Greater New York Council of Reform Synagogues mourns the passing of Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, esteemed President Emeritus of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations. Rabbi Schindler's vision and inspiration shaped and guided Reform Judaism for over a quarter of a century. We extend our sympathy and love to his cherished wife, Rhea and his children, Elisa, Debra, Joshua, Judith, Jonathan and their families. May he be remembered for blessing. Rabbi Deborah A. Hirsch, Director Susan Feldman, President
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of our devoted colleague, friend and esteemed past chairman. Rabbi Alexander Schindler was an extraordinary leader whose deep commitment to America, Israel and world Jewry were reflected in the many leadership positions he held and his remarkable contributions. We extend our condolences to his wife Rhea and family, and pray that they will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. The Board of Advisors of Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health mourn the sudden loss of its esteemed member, Rabbi Alex Schindler. A caring and compassionate man of honor, courage and vision, we are the less for his passing. On behalf of the faculty, students, alumni and staff, we extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Rhea, children and grandchildren. Allan Rosenfield, M.D., Dean James T. Harden, Chairman Mailman School of Public Health
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. The Federation of Polish Jews of the United States is profoundly grieved at the passing of Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, Honorary President of the Federation. Rabbi Schindler, one of the giants of the 20th Century Jewish leaders served his people with ultimate devotion. Kalman Sultanik, President Jechil M. Dobekirer, Vice President Sam E. Bloch, Secretary
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. The American Sephardi Federation mourns the loss of one who has been a beacon of light for us all-a personal mentor in our joint activities on the International Development Program of the Joint Distribution Committee, the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations and the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture. To Rhea and his family, our sincerest condolences. Leon Levy, President American Sephardi Federation
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. Congregation B'nai Yisrael of Armonk mourns the loss of our stately, powerful, gentle and sweet leader who led us with wisdom and nourished us with compassion. We share our sorrow with Rhea, her children and grandchildren. David W. Brody, M.D., President Rabbi Douglas E. Krantz Rabbi Seth M. Limmer Cantor Jennifer Werby Cookie Markhoff, Educator
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. The American Friends of Assaf Harofeh Medical Center and Assaf Harofeh Medical Center, Israel mourns the passing of our dear friend and board member who, together with his wife, Rhea supported our cause for many many years. A great man is lost to us. Our heartfelf condolences to Rhea and the family. Kenneth Kronen National Chairman
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. Israel Policy Forum is deeply saddened by the passing of Rabbi Alexander Schindler, a great religious teacher, advocate of peace and leader of American and World Jewry. His life will forever be an inspiration to those who promote peace and justice. Michael W. Sonnenfeldt, Chair Jack Bendheim, President Ted Mann, Exec Committee Chair Debra Wasserman, Executive Dir.
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. Congregation Beth Simchat Torah, New York's gay and lesbian synagogue, mourns the loss of Rabbi Schindler, early courageous champion of full inclusion of lesbians and gays in synagogue life. Outspoken, compassionate public voice for people with AIDS. His memory will be for a blessing. Rabbi Sharon Kleinbaum Rabbi Roderick Young Yolanda Potasinski, President
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. Congregation Kol Ami of White Plains joins with all UAHC member congregations in mourning the loss of Rabbi Alexander Schindler. We will miss his inspirational leadership and his friendship. Our sincere condolences to his wife Rhea and his family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Thomas K. Weiner Cantor Annie Bornstein Ken Simon, President
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. MAZON: A Jewish Response to Hunger joins American Jewry in mourning the loss of Rabbi Alexander Schindler. We will always remember his generous spirit, eloquent voice and belief in our cause. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family and colleagues. David Napell, Chair Susan Cramer, Executive Director
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. The entire staff of Colliers ABR, Inc. mourns the loss of Rabbi Alex Schindler, father of our friend and colleague, Jonathan Schindler. We will miss Rabbi Schindler for his many selfless contributions to the world but also for his delightful unannounced visits to our offices and the genuine devotion he demonstrated toward his son. He was a great man.
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander M. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck deeply mourns the loss of this great leader of Reform Judaism. He was an inspiration to American and World Jewry and a cherished friend of our congregation. Our symphathy is extended to Rhea and the family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. The President, Trustees, faculty and students of Hamilton College extend their deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler who honored us by receiving an honorary degree in 1990. His humanity and warmth inspired us all.
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. Alpha Epsilon Pi Fraternity profoundly mourns the passing of our Brother and advisor, Rabbi Alexander Schindler. Recipient of the Nehemiah Gitelson Award for outstanding Jewish Communal Service. Andrew Fradkin, President.
        SCHINDLER-Rabbi Alexander. Farewell Alex, you were among the great of Jewish history. Temple Shaaray Tefila Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, Co President Michael Laufer, Co President
      