
        HENKIND-Evelyn. On November 24, 2000. Beloved wife of Sol. Loving mother of Lewis and Ellie. Dear mother-in-law of Michael. Adoring grandmother of Hilary, Steven, Chimon, Adam, Rain and Heidi. She will be profoundly missed. Service Tuesday, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.
        HENKIND - Evelyn. Montefiore Medical Center and its Board of Trustees are deeply saddened by the death of our compassionate and staunch friend, Evelyn Henkind, who with her husband Sol, generously endowed The Henkind Eye Institute at Montefiore. Their commitment to the quality of health care and to Montefiore started with the support of their nephew, the late Paul Henkind, M.D., who for many years was Chairman of the Department of Ophthalmology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center, and continues to this day through their son, Lewis, who is a valued trustee of Montefiore. Mrs. Henkind was an exceptional woman of great wit and a philanthropist of the first degree who was very active in Jewish organizations such as Yeshiva University. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her loving husband Sol, their son and daughter, Lewis and Ellie, and their entire family. Spencer Foreman, M.D., President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        HENKIND-Evelyn. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Evelyn Henkind, whose lifelong passion for JTS and generous spirit was reflected in her tireless dedication to numerous philanthropic endeavors. For several decades, she served on the JTS Board and was the guiding force behind Torah Fund, a campaign of the Women's League for Conservative Judaism, which she also served as president. She was named to the JTS Society of Fellows and was awarded an honorary degree in 1995. She is survived by her husband, Sol, a daughter, Ellie Katz of Jerusalem, a son, Lewis, of Greenwich, CT, and six grandchildren. May her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Board Chairman
        HENKIND - Evelyn. Women's League for Conservative Judaism deeply mourns the death of our esteemed former National President, Evelyn Henkind, who served as President, 1966-1970. Her inspiring leadership, dedication, creativity, wisdom, generosity, dignity and humility served as a role model for our entire membership. Our deepest condolences to her devoted husband Sol, to her beloved children Ellie and Michael, and Lewis, and adored grandchildren Steven, Hilary and Jeffrey, Shimon, Adam, Rain and Heidi. Janet Tobin, President Bernice Balter, Exec. Director Women's League for Conservative Judaism
        HENKIND-Evelyn. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Evelyn Henkind, and extend our sincere condolences to her bereaved husband Sol and members of her family. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary
      