
        CHRZANOWSKI - Gerard, MD. This year marks the fiftieth anniversary of Dr. Gerard Chrzanowski's graduation from The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute. Given that he had a talent for both contributing to and extracting from any given day, twice as much as most mortals, he can with modesty be given credit for one hundred years of extraordinary service to the repair of human hurts and to the needs of the lay and professional communities on the local, national and international levels. Acknowledged as a forceful and brilliant teacher, supervisor, psychoanalyst, and author, his apparently limitless energy and irrepresible creativity made him a formidable and peripatetic presence in countless professional endeavors of exceptional distinction. Gerry founded the Bleuler Clinic over fifty years ago; he co-founded the International Federation of Psychoanalytic Societies in 1962; he served actively and with distinction in the American Academy of Psychoanalysis; and he wrote a seminal book on interpersonal psychoanalysis. Dr. Chrzanowski was the recipient of many awards of which two were the White Institute's Certificate of Appreciation in 1977, and the IFPS ''award for lifelong dedication to psychoanalysis'' in 2000. As a determined agent for growth and a man of fierce loyalties and strong opinions, Gerry willed himself and others to face head-on the challenges of life and to triumph. Unencumbered by reticence, he nonetheless had an infinite capacity for patience, kindness and compassion. Gerry's understanding, love and devotion was returned in full measure by his many colleagues, analysands, supervisees, family, friends and others whose lives were enriched by his unique array of talents. His vision will be carried by a profoundly grateful Institute and Society on which he left his salient, striking and indelible mark. Joerg Bose, MD, Director, White Institute Betsy Hegeman, PhD, President, White Society Charles C. Harrington, PhD, President, Board of Trustees
        CHRZANOWSKI-Dr. Gerard. Died in his home on the Upper East Side on November 1. Eminent psychoanalyst, founder of the Bleuler Institute for Psychotherapy, and co-founder of the International Federation of Psychoanalytic Societies, past president of the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Society. He is survived by his children, Romola, Peter, Christopher and Dr. Paul Chrzanowski, Barbara Alexander, Francesca Cohn and six grandchildren. Memorial services Friday, 3:30, Frank Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue, 288-3500. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to W.A. White Institute, 20 West 74th, New York City 10023.
      