
        HIRSCH-Stuart M. It is with profound sadness that we share the news of the passing of Stuart M. Hirsch, 71, of New Providence, N.J. Born and raised in Plainfied, N.J., he had a long and distinguished career in the real estate and publishing industries, complimented by extensive commitment to numerous community and charitable undertakings that were dear to his heart. Stuart will long be remembered for his love of life, great wit, caring and compassion toward others and deep love of books, but above all family was the centerpiece of his life. A devoted husband to Maxine Kunitz Hirsch for 46 years, he was the loving father of two children, Chuck Hirsch of Seattle, WA. and Robin Friedman of Montgomery Twp, N.J., and daughter-in-law Carol and son-in-law Jeff. He was an adoring grandfather to Hannah and Lily Friedman. Also survived by his brother Simon Hirsch of Allentown, PA. He attended both Muhlenberg College and Rutgers University and served with the U.S. Army in the Korean Conflict. Upon his return to Plainfield, he joined into partnership with J.J. Schwartz and Company, a real estate firm. Later he changed the course of his career by joining the publishing giant Simon and Schuster at 36 years old. He thrived in this environment, immediately assuming responsibility for sales for the greater New York region, rising to the position of National Sales Manager. During his tenure with the company, his sales and marketing expertise helped insure the best selling status of some of the most prominent authors of the past century. In retirement he served as Chairman of the Board of Managers and President of the Volunteer Guild of Runnells Hospital in Berkeley Heights, N.J., devoted ten years as a volunteer at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. and participated actively as a member of the New Providence Rescue Squad, Board of Adjustment, Board of Health and of the Summit Old Guard. He was widely admired for his warm and engaging personality, and his deep knowledge of, and interest in books, politics, sports and family. His intellect, spirit and great courage inspired and uplifted all fortunate enough to know him. He will be deeply missed. Funeral services to be held at the Higgins Home for Funerals, 752 Mountain Blvd, Watchung, N.J. Friday, November 3rd, 11AM. Interment Beth David Orthodox Cemetery, Elmont N.Y. In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions to be made to the American Cancer Society, Union County Unit, POB 815, 507 Westminster Ave, Elizabeth NJ 07207-0815 or the New Providence Rescue Squad, 360 Elkwood Dr., POB 804, New Providence, N.J. 07974.
      