
        KOSLOWE-Irving, Rabbi. With deep sadness, the Westchester Jewish Center mourns the passing of our beloved Rabbi Emeritus, Dr. Irving Koslowe. Having established our synagogue as a vital center of Jewish life, he continued to inspire us with his love of Torah and his dedication to the Jewish people for 57 years. His friendship and his wisdom will be sorely missed by countless congregants and the community at large. Funeral services will take place on Friday, December 8 at 10:00 AM at the Westchester Jewish Center. May the Almighty comfort his wife Marly, his dear children Neil, Kenneth, Mark and Shari, and his beloved grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Randy Heller, President Jeffrey Segelman, Rabbi
        KOSLOWE-Rabbi Irving. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a distinguished graduate of its Yeshiva College ('40) and Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies ('43), who was also a beloved alumnus of its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary ('43) and Marsha Stern Talmudical Academy ('36). He served with love and devotion as spiritual leader of the Westchester Jewish Center in Mamaroneck, NY, for over 43 years and as chaplain at Sing Sing Correctional Facility for a half century. A dynamic Jewish communal leader, he inspired great support for YU by his steadfast dedication to his alma mater. His friends at the Westchester Jewish Center established the Rabbi Irving and Marly Koslowe Scholarship Fund for Undergraduate Students at YU. We extend heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Marly; children, alumnus Neil H. (and Pat) Koslowe, alumni Kenneth (and Laurie) Koslowe, alumnus Mark A. (and YUHS Steering Committee member Dr. Rama) Koslowe, and alumna Shari (and Ricky) Schechter; grandchildren; great-grandchildren; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Julius Berman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees
        KOSLOWE-Rabbi Irving. We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved Rabbi. He was at our side for all of our life events. We extend sincere condolences to Marly and the entire Koslowe family. We will miss you but you will always be remembered. Ruth & Louis Brause Cheryl & David Brause Deborah & Michael Bunder Michelle & Steven Litt
        KOSLOWE-Rabbi Irving. We mourn the loss of our esteemed Rabbi and close family friend. His wisdom, kindness and concern will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathies extend to Marly, Neil and Pat, Kenny and Laurie, Mark and Rama, Shari and Ricky and their beautiful families. Joan & Stuart Schapiro & Family Barbara and Gerald Schapiro and Family
        KOSLOWE-Rabbi Irving. The partners, associates and staff of Buchman & O'Brien wish to express their deepest condolences to the family of Rabbi Irving Koslowe. Rabbi Koslowe was a truly dignified and understanding man who cared so much for his community and family. All those who knew him will miss him. Buchman & O'Brien, LLP
        KOSLOWE-Rabbi Irving. The family of Abraham, Ann and Amy Buchman wish to express their heartfelt sympathy to the family of Rabbi Irving Koslowe on his passing. As former members of Rabbi Koslowe's congregation and long-lasting friends, we will miss him. Abraham M. Buchman Family
        KOSLOWE-Rabbi Irving. Congregation Shaarei Tikva of the Westchester Religious Institute expresses its deepest condolences on the passing of our dear friend and colleague. May the entire family be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Charles Rudansky, Rabbi Dr. Paul Hoffert, President
        KOSLOWE-Rabbi Irving. A beloved man who three generations spanning almost 55 years have called Rabbi and friend. Our deepest condolences to Marly and the family. The Winter Family
      