
        SCHAFLER-Rubelle. At her home on Dec. 24, 2000. Cherished wife of the late Norman I. Schafler, dearly beloved mother of Julie and Scott, mother-in-law of Jim Dale & Pam Bressler Schafler, loving grandmother of Michael and Jonathan Schafler, dear companion of the late Meyer W. Nathans. Born in New York, NY, graduate of the Ethical Culture and Fieldston schools and Smith College. Her early and long term support of the Young Adult Institute is reflected in the Schafler Residence and the Rubelle Schafler Early Childhood Center, which continue to touch the lives of many. In partnership with her late husband, she was dedicated to the restoration and beautification of Congregation Rodeph Sholom. She will always be remembered for her elegance, dignity, intelligence and strength of character and for her unwavering love and commitment to her beloved family. Her presence is deeply missed.
        SCHAFLER-Rubelle. On December 24, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Norman I. Schafler. Devoted mother of Julie Dale and Scott Schafler. Loving grandmother of Michael and Jonathan. Dear sister of Lucille Cohn. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 11:30 AM. Interment to follow at Westchester Hills Cemetery.
        SCHAFLER-Rubelle. The Board of Trustees, staff, consumers of YAI/National Institute for people with Disabilities notes with the deepest sorrow the loss of Rubelle Schafler. A distinguished member of our Board of Trustees for over three decades, she was a tireless crusader on behalf of the rights of people with mental retardation and developmental disabilities. Her life long advocacy to promote community inclusion for people with disabilities was instrumental in the establishment of many group homes, including the Rubelle Schafler Residence in Manhattan. Her concern for, and devotion to, young children with special needs was recently recognized through the naming of the Rubelle Schafler Early Childhood Center. Her courage and commitment will continue to serve as an inspiration to all of us. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her son Scott, her daughter Julie, and to her entire family. Marcella Fava, Chairman Dr. Paul H. Levitz, Vice Chairman Board of Trustees Dr. Joel M. Levy, CEO Dr. Philip H. Levy, Pres. and COO YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities
      