
        MITCHELL-Edson V. Born in Portland, Maine, on May 19, 1953, and grew up in South Portland and Auburn. He attended Edward Little High School, where he met his wife Suzan James. They married on November 11, 1972. Mr. Mitchell graduated from Colby College with distinction in Economics in 1975 and later earned an MBA from Dartmouth's Ames Tuck School. He and his family have resided in Maine, New Hampshire, near Chicago for a short time, and in Northwestern New Jersey and London. Edson Mitchell was head of Global Markets for Deutsche Bank AG, Europe's biggest investment bank, where he directed the powerful global fixed-income business from London and New York. This past June, Mr. Mitchell was one of two Americans ever to be named to the management board of Deutsche Bank AG. Prior to Deutsche Bank AG, he worked for Merrill Lynch and Bank of America's Chicago Branch. Mr. Mitchell served Colby College as an Overseer or Trustee since 1990. He has served on numerous Colby committees, including chairing the Campaign for Colby, the largest capital campaign in the college's history. In 1991, he established a scholarship fund to benefit students from Western Maine. He and his wife Suzan established the Mitchell Family Professorship in Economics and provided one of the three naming gifts for the Anthony-Mitchell-Schupf residence halls. In June, 2000, he was presented with Colby's Distinguished Alumnus Award at his 25th Renunion. Mr. Mitchell was very committed to preserving the natural beauty of Maine while at the same time promoting economic opportunities for the people of the state. He was co-founder of the Rangeley Lakes Heritage Trust, an environmental organization in the Rangeley Lakes region, which has preserved 10,000 acres and is purchasing another 800 acres at Bonney Point. It also offers a summer program for Maine youth called Ecoventure. Each year 250 children have the opportunity to learn about the environment and conservation. Mr. Mitchell was a major shareholder of Keiser Industries, a home manufacturer in Oxford, ME, and Phycogen, a biotech research firm in Falmouth, and was part owner of the Stoneybatter and the Gingerbread House in Oquossoc. He is survived by his wife, Suzan, and five children, Erik, Katie, Becky, Scott and Ellen of Chester, NJ, and Oquossoc, ME, his parents, Edson Jr. and Helen Mitchell of Cape Elizabeth, his brother Glenn of Cumberland, and his sister Karen Villeneuve of Berlin, NH. A memorial service will be held at 3 PM, Tuesday, December 26, at Lorimer Chapel, Colby College, Waterville, ME. For information, contact Adams Funeral Home, Main Street, Phillips, Maine. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Rangeley Lakes Heritage Trust, PO Box 249, Oquossoc, ME 04964.
      