
        PERKIN-Gladys Talmage. On Tuesday, Nov. 28, 2000, at home in New Canaan, CT. Age 93. Beloved wife of the late Richard Scott Perkin, a founder of the PerkinElmer Corporation. Born Gladys Frelinghuysen Talmage on May 13, 1907, she was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Frelinghuysen Talmage, of Brooklyn Heights and East Hampton, Long Island. She was a descendant of Captain Thomas Talmage, a founder of East Hampton in 1648, and Philip Rhinelander, 18th Century New York Merchant. She attended Pine Manor College and Pratt Institute and, in 1930, married investment banker, Richard S. Perkin. In 1937, she assisted him in the formation of the Perkin-Elmer Corporation, which became a leading manufacturer of optical systems and scientific instruments. Following Mr. Perkin's death in 1969, Gladys Perkin devoted her life to philanthropy. As Chairman of The Perkin Fund, she supported the American Museum of Natural History, The Boston Academy of Music, Harvard's Center for Blood Research, The Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, The Juilliard School, The New England Conservatory, New York Presbyterian Hospital, Norwalk Hospital, Rockefeller University, The Waveny Care Center and The Wildlife Conservation Society. In 1980, Pratt Institute awarded her the degree of Doctor of Humane Letters. A longtime member of the New Canaan Garden Club, Mrs. Perkin also served for many years on the Visiting Committee of Harvard's Department of Astronomy and as a member of the Rockefeller University Council. Gladys Perkin is survived by three of her children, Richard T. Perkin of New York, Winifred Perkin Gray of Wenham, Mass., and Robert S. Perkin of Darien, Conn. Her son, John T. Perkin, died in 1997. She also leaves nine grandchildren, two great-grandchildren and her brother, Theodore Frelinghuysen Talmage of Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Funeral services will be held at St. Mark's Episcopal Church, 111 Oenoke Ridge (Route 124), New Canaan, Conn., at 11:00AM, Monday, December 4. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions should be sent to St. Mark's Episcopal Church or Waveny Care Center, both in New Canaan.
      