
        ROBARDS-Jason. The Roundabout Theatre Company profoundly mourns the passing of our beloved friend and board member, Jason Robards. His warmth, generous spirit and extraordinary talent were a source of great inspiration and joy to us all. As an actor, he partnered with his dear friend Christopher Plummer in our production of Harold Pinter's ''No Man's Land''. Later he would spend a full season on our stage when Roundabout opened the Laura Pels Theatre. He was affectionately referred to as our ''artist in residence'' for that very special 1994-95 season. Beyond his work on stage, it was his commitment to the art of theatre and his celebration of the people behind the scenes that made him such a very special member of our company. His impact, as a member of the Roundabout family and the greater theatre community, is profound and we are grateful to have had him in our lives. He will be deeply missed on our stage, in our boardroom and in our lives. We extend our most sincere condolences to his beloved wife, Lois, and his children. Mary Cirillo, Board of Directors Todd Haimes, Artistic Director And Staff Roundabout Theatre Company
        ROBARDS-Jason. We mourn the loss of one of our fellow members and one of this nation's finest actors. His life and career personified a combination of sterling talent, exceptional professionalism and exquisite fellowship. Each performance carried with it ''a touch of the poet''. He was a great storyteller and great company-a true Player in every sense of the word. May the hero of Talavara rest in peace! Our love and sympathies to Lois and their family. The Players
        ROBARDS-Jason. The board of directors and staff of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, Inc. mourn the passing of Jason Robards. Mr. Robards helped reduce the stigma associated with alcoholism and sent a message of hope to millions of Americans when he appeared in a public service advertising campaign that encouraged alcoholics to seek treatment for their disease. Gordon Steinhauer, Chair Stacia Murphy, President
        ROBARDS-Jason. It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of our cherished friend, longtime client and favorite ''uncle'', Jason Robards. A kind and loving man who will be sorely missed. We extend heartfelt condolences to Lois and the entire family. Michael S. Shedler, CPA Shedler Shedler & Cohen, LLP
        ROBARDS-Jason. The partners and families of Segal and Meltzer mourn the passing of our dear friend, Jason Robards, Jr. Our thoughts and prayers are with Lois and the entire family. Michael Irwin Meltzer Howard W. Segal
        ROBARDS-Jason. Jason Robards served our Guild with grace and generosity, as he did his profession. We are forever grateful for his life and work. The Episcopal Actor's Guild
        ROBARDS-Jason. An incandescence rarely seen and a sterling example of the human race. A thespian for the ages. Copious tears. Eliot & Wallace Jordan
      