
        YOHE-Thomas G. Resident of Norwalk, CT, died on December 20, 2000. Mr. Yohe was born April 26, 1937 to Robert C. and Berdene Walker Yohe in Flushing, NY. Mr. Yohe graduated from Baldwin High School in 1955 and attended Syracuse University where he majored in fine arts. An advertising executive and animation designer, Mr. Yohe won five EMMYs as a creator, designer and executive producer of ''Schoolhouse Rock'', a series of educational programs broadcast by the ABC Television Network for 25 years. Mr. Yohe's animated characters for films like ''I'm Just a Bill'' and ''Conjunction Junction'' became icons for the young viewers of the '70's now known as Generation X. The ''tiny scrap of paper'' depicted in ''I'm Just a Bill'' and the switchman from ''Conjunction Junction'' became more memorable images to children than most that they encountered in the traditional environment of the classroom. As Generation X has moved on to adulthood, its fascination with the concept and characters of ''Schoolhouse Rock'' has led to numerous books, articles and educational seminars. Mr. Yohe began a career in advertising as an art director at Young & Rubicam. In 1964 he moved to McCaffrey & McCall where he rose to co-creative director. In 1986 Mr. Yohe moved to Grey Advertising where he served in a senior creative position until taken ill in November 2000. Mr. Yohe was married to the former Cynthia Doen in 1960. They had four children: Thomas, James, Lauren and Suzanne. In 1980 Mr. Yohe married his second wife, Diane Sanden Seely. Ms. Seely had two children, Colin and Darren. The couple has resided in Norwalk, CT since their marriage. Mr. Yohe will be remembered as a warm, sensitive, irrepressibly creative man whose cartoon characters were loved by millions and who was a devoted father to an adoring family and beloved by a wide circle of friends. Mr. Yohe is survived by his wife Diane, brother Robert L. Yohe of Bonita Springs, FL, sons Thomas of Brooklyn, NY and James of Munster, Germany, daughter Lauren of Tarrytown, NY, daughter Suzanne Tessitore of Manhattan, step-son Colin Seely of Darien, CT, step-son Darren Seely of Grafton, MA and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, December 28 at 11 AM at St. Bartholemew's Church on Park Ave. and 51 St. in NYC. The family has requested that in lieu of flowers donations be made in the name of Thomas G. Yohe to the American Cancer Society or Syracuse University, 820 Comstock Ave., Syracuse, NY 13244, to the attention of Angela La France.
      