
        THON-William E., 94, noted artist, died at his home in Port Clyde, ME, Wednesday after a brief illness. Born in New York City, August 8, 1906, Mr. Thon was a World War II veteran. He has resided in Port Clyde since the 1940's. For several years, Mr. Thon worked with Consolidated Edison Electric Company in New York City, where he met the love of his life Helen Elizabeth whom he married June 3, 1929 in New York City. Mrs. Thon died November 20, 1999. Having previously purchased land in Port Clyde, in 1946, the Thon's built their home in which Mr. Thon still resided. He enjoyed the closeknit community and considered his neighbors family. In 1947, Mr. Thon traveled to Rome, where he had been honored with Membership in the American Academy of Arts. While living in Rome, he traveled with his wife to Greece, Spain, Portugal, and Rhodes. With gradual loss of sight due to Macular Degeneration, Mr. Thon stated at the time of his wife's death that, ''In recent years, she became my eyes and during her illness, I became her strength.'' He found satisfaction in sharing his art with others, painting what he saw through his own eyes. Mr. Thon received the Prix de Rome in 1947 and in 1948 a Fellowship from The American Academy of Arts and Letters. Among his numerous awards are First Prize from the Brooklyn Museum in 1941 and 1944, distinctions from The National Academy of Design, Gold Medals from the American Watercolor Society in 1970 and 1978, State of Maine Award and Citation from Governor Kenneth Curtis in 1970, and a Silver Medal from The Audobon Society in 1986. Mr. Thon's paintings are represented in many public and private collections including The Metropolitan Museum of Art, The Brooklyn Museum, The Hirshhorn Museum, The High Museum, The Whitney Museum, The Butler Art Institute and The Columbus Museum of Art. His work has been featured in solo exhibitions at The Smith College Museum of Art, The Fort Wayne Museum, Bates College, The Farnsworth Art Museum and in many group exhibitions throughout the United States. Described by his primary caregiver Ms. Heidi Stevens, as a true gentleman, Mr. Thon enjoyed sailing his friendship sloop ''Echo'', with his neighbor Harriet Dennon. Several nieces and nephews survive Mr. Thon. Funeral services were held in Maine. Call Burpee-Strong Funeral Home, Rockland, for more information. Memorial donations may be made in his name to Maine College of Arts, 97 Spring Street, Portland, ME 04101.
      