
        COLE-Doli. Of Ridgewood, NJ. Daughter of Mireille Guzelbahar Axelrad of Boca Raton, FL and the late Robert Guzelbahar, wife of Morrill Cole and mother of Amy Ellen Cole of Cliffside Park and Robert Cole of Fort Lee, NJ died on Friday at Sloane Kettering Memorial Hospital in New York City. She is survived, also by her beloved grandchildren, Danielle and Adam, the children of Robert and Ronit Cole and by her sister, Emel Glicksman of New York City and her nieces, Cindy Touma of Tenafly, NJ and Sally Rosen and Nina Rosen both of New York City. A fashion designer and lifelong tennis player, she pioneered in the design of tennis apparel that combined a strong fashion statement with practical, active wearability in the movements of the game. She brought companies into the tennis wear business that had previously had no connection with the tennis world. She designed for Profile Skiwear, Spalding, Champion and other sportswear and hard goods companies. Her business, Lovestitch, printed a classic ALine tennis dress pattern on fabric that permitted the home sewer to cut and sew her own dress. The design and wearability of the dresses were so successful that her customers prevailed on her to go further and manufacture the finished dress for ready to wear sales. She was born in Istanbul, Turkey. In 1954, she participated in a Turkish government assignment as a translator and model on the Turkish good-will ship, the Tarsis, that travelled the Western Hemisphere to introduce modern Westernized Turkish culture and post war economic progress to the American marketplace. Her marriage to New Jersey attorney Morrill Cole followed her disembarkation in New York. Fluent in many languages, she was a graduate of Roberts College in Istanbul and attended the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York City. She was an active member of the Upper Ridgewood Tennis Club until her illness took her from the courts. She was a member of Honors, the bridge club in New York. Her family would appreciate contributions to the Evelyn Lauder Breast Center at Sloane Kettering Memorial Hospital, 205 East 64th Street, NY NY 10021 in honor of the pioneering and humane work of Dr. Larry Norton and his associate Dr. Pamela Munster. Funeral services will be held at Barnert Memorial Temple, Rt. 208 in Franklin Lakes on Monday, December 18 at 12 noon. The family will receive friends at the Cole home, 312 Highland Avenue, Ridgewood until Friday, December 22.
      