
        MINSKOFF-Myron Allen. 83, died December 17, 2000. Beloved husband of Carolyn, adoring father of Sara and devoted father-in-law of Robb. The sole surviving son of legendary developer Sam Minskoff, Myron helped shape the skyline of New York and the metropolitan area in a real estate career spanning 60 years. Both as head of construction of Sam Minskoff and Sons, and on his own, Myron was a master builder who erected residential and commercial towers in New York City, Detroit, and Washington, DC, as well as The Minskoff Theatre on Broadway. He was widely admired and respected for his modesty, gentle nature and integrity, and for his devotion to his religious beliefs and his family. He will be deeply missed. A memorial service will be held at Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67th Street at 12 noon, on Monday, December 18. In lieu of flowers contributions may be directed to The American Cancer Society or a charity of your choice.
        MINSKOFF-Myron A. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Myron A. Minskoff, Chairman of the Board of Trustees for many years. In the tradition of his father, Sam Minskoff, he served as Vice President and Chairman of the Building Committee of the Sam and Esther Minskoff Cultural Center. To his devoted wife Carolyn, his beloved daughter Sara, and son-in-law Rob, our deepest sympathy. Services at Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67th St, today, December 18, at 12 noon. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        MINSKOFF-Myron A. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns the death of its founding trustee, Myron A. Minskoff, who was dedicated to religious freedom and tolerance. Deepest condolences to the family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier, President Reverend Joseph O'Hare, S.J. Vice President Dr. David H.C. Read Vice President
        MINSKOFF-Myron A. Sam and Esther Minskoff Cultural Center and Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School mourn the passing of one of its most dedicated founders and first chairman, Myron A. Minskoff. Deepest sympathy to the entire family. Julius H. Gewirtz, Vice Presdient Joseph Wilf, Vice President
        MINSKOFF-Myron. A man of honor, a loving husband and father, and a dear friend. Myron, we will miss you very much. Our deepest condolences to wife Carolyn, daughter Sarah, and son-in-law Rob. Sy and Irene and the Finkelstein family
        MINSKOFF-Myron. Dear friend for over 50 years. Our deepest sympathy to Carolyn and his loving family. Rita Denerstein and family
      