
        EDSON-Ann Payne. Beloved daughter of the late Christy Payne Jr. and Katharyn Wilhite Payne, also deceased, passed away on Wednesday, December 13. Ann is survived by daughter Christie Soffel of Washington, DC, and brother Neill Hunter Payne of Fouke, Arkansas. Ann was born May 24, 1934, in New York City. She spent her early years in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and remained until the mid '70's. Ann graduated from Mount Mercy Academy in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and attended the Traphagen School of Design in New York City. Ann divided her time between Sarasota, Florida, and Wainscott, NY. She left Pittsburgh in the mid '70's and relocated to New York City for several years. During her Pittsburgh years Ann worked as a fashion model. Ann also implemented one of Pittsburgh's first drug abuse prevention programs through HUD's Office of Economic Opportunity, working with inner city youth in drug prevention and self-care. Mrs. Edson was a member of Shadyside Presbyterian Church in Pittsburgh. Known for her outstanding abilities to entertain friends and family in her home, Ann decided while in New York City to turn her talents into a profession and became a well known caterer in New York City and Long Island's Hamptons. Throughout her life, Ann supported the arts. In Sarasota she was an active volunteer for the Florida West Coast Symphony Association for several years. Ann was a recognized artist herself. Most of her painting took place at the Victor D'Amico Institute of Art in Amagansett, NY. Ann painted and worked in several art mediums, including acrylic, watercolor, charcoal, batik and collage. Displays of her artwork can be seen at the Victor D'Amico Institute of Art (summers only) and also at the Payne Mansion in Sarasota, Florida-a home built by her grandfather Christy Payne in 1934, which is now a museum for the Marie Selby Gardens. Ann was also a firm supporter of the conservation and research efforts of Selby Gardens, which is also known worldwide as a major source of reference for tropical plants, in particular orchids and bromeliads. Ann actively volunteered at Selby Gardens, assisting with the many social and cultural events held at the Gardens each year. The Payne Mansion is used for receptions and special events and is often featured as Selby's Holiday House and Designer Showcase. A foundation in memory of Ann Payne Edson to support both the Marie Selby Botanical Gardens in Sarasota, Florida, and the Victor D'Amico Institute of Art in Amagansett, NY, is in the works. Donations to either organization are welcome. Address contributions to Marie Selby Gardens, 811 South Palm Avenue, Sarasota, FL 34236 or to The Victor D'Amico Institute of Art, PO Box 1266, Amagansett, NY 11930. Memorial services will be held in Sarasota, Florida, and Amagansett, NY.
      