
        MARCECA-Robert K., 57, President and owner of RKM Enterprises Real Estate Investments Inc. and Kane Realty Services, Inc., died on December 26, 2000 at NYU Hospital in NYC. Mr. Marceca was a real estate investor, developer and property manager. Mr. Marceca was in the real estate business for over 30 years. He developed, owned and managed his own real estate portfolio, both in the U.S. and abroad. During the 1980s he was extremely active in the cooperative/condominium business, having converted over 100 buildings throughout NYC, Westchester and Long Island. In the 1990s Mr. Marceca began buying unsold cooperative shares and condominium units of rent-stabilized and rent-controlled apartments at discounted values and more recently, began acquiring residential rental properties. Mr. Marceca was truly a maverick in defining the undervalued market niche for blocks of unsold shares of cooperative and unsold condominium units. Mr. Marceca maintained relationships with dozens of brokers, banks, financial institutions and private lending investment groups who assisted and participated with him in his many ventures. Robert was born on December 1, 1943 in NYC, the son of Alda Marceca and the late Robert P. Marceca. Mr. Marceca, a devoted family man, is survived by his wife, Nini, daughters Cathy Pilkin, Kobi, Kaylie, Riley and Siena, son, Nico, and grandchildren Kaitlin, Sean and Maggie. His contagious enthusiasm for life, his courage, commitment and leadership will be missed by his friends, colleagues, business associates and employees. Mr. Marceca was also a philanthropist, especially interested in organizations which served children. Mr. Marceca was a devoted member of the Steering Committee for Fight Against Childhood Epilepsy and Seizures (FACES), a charity at Mt. SinaiNYU Medical Center whose mission is to promote improved quality of life for children with epilepsy through clinical care, education, and research. Among Mr. Marceca's many generous contributions to the organization was an apartment for families to use while their child has brain surgery or is monitored at the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center at NYU. He was the founder of the Siena New Hope Home, which provides a safe haven to support children and aid them to achieve their maximum psychological, social and economic potential while fully respecting the dignity and worth of each individual. The home presently houses five children at a time. Mr. Marceca was also the founder of the Siena Hostel in Eluru, India, which schools 100 very poor children. He also purchased various supplies for the poor including food for hungry children and vehicles in Brazil, India, Ireland, Albania, Ethiopia and Eritrea. Funeral services will be held for the family on Thursday, December 28, 2000. A memorial serivice wil be held on Wednesday, January 3, 2001, at 10:30AM at the Church of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, 570 E. 33 St., NY NY. Expressions of sympathy may be made in Robert Marceca's name to the Siena New Hope Home, Box 518, New Monmouth, NJ 07748.
        MARCECA-Robert K. In memoriam. The friends, colleagues, business associates and employees of Robert K. Marceca are profoundly saddened by his passing on December 26, 2000. After a noble struggle with cancer, he left a legacy colored by his keen intelligence, generosity of spirit, entrepreneurial brilliance and remarkable ability to be supportive of those he cared about. These wonderful qualities shall endure forever in the hearts of all who were fortunate enough to know him. Our deepest condolences to his family.
      