
        BUCY-Odetta (Greer), was born on October 25, 1931, on a farm in Grassland, Texas, 11 miles east of Tahoka, to her parents Wesley Robert Greer and Nannie Josephine Bargsley Greer and passed away on December 15, 2000. In addition to helping with the chores on the farm, she also enjoyed athletics, becoming the captain of her high school basketball team. She first caught the eye of her future husband, J. Fred Bucy, Jr., when she was nine years old and he was twelve. He sold her a double dip ice cream cone for half price at a nickel at the drug store where he worked. They married six years later and supported each other by farming before heading off to college at Texas Tech. They then moved to the University of Texas in Austin where he obtained his Master's Degree and she attended college. Upon his graduation, they moved to Dallas to begin her husband's career at Texas Instruments. While raising and nurturing three children, she also supported her husband in his career as he rose to become president and CEO of Texas Instruments. While living in West Texas, Austin, Houston and Dallas, Odetta made lifelong friends that are devoted to her to this day. She traveled around the world many times but was never happier than at home or combing the beach in Port Aransas for shark's teeth with her children and eventually grandchildren. She took the greatest joy in life whether bowling with her girlfriends, sailing through the Bahamas or beating her family in games of Scrabble. Her joy in life was tested when she was struck with cancer at the age of 60. Though her doctors believed she had only six months to live, her spirit and determination and the devotion of her husband, gave the gift of nine beautiful years to her family and friends. She was able to win her battle with cancer, but finally succumbed to a weakened heart. Even during her illness, she lived her life with joy and enthusiasm, never showing a hint of despair or regret. She showed us how to live life to the fullest and how to leave this world with the utmost dignity and grace. She leaves behind her husband of 54 years, J. Fred Bucy, Jr; her son, J. Fred Bucy, III, two daughters, Roxanne Coogan and Diane Gruber; two sons-in-law, Keith Coogan and Mike Gruber; six grandchildren, Joshua Bucy, Patrick Coogan, Michael Gruber, Becky Gruber, and Chris Gruber, a sister, Opal Greer Ray and many nieces and nephews. We will miss her dearly. Services will be 10:30 AM, Wednesday December 20, 2000 in the Main Sanctuary at Lovers Lane United Methodist Church, 9200 Inwood Road, Dallas, Texas, Rev. Ed Robb officiating. Interment to follow at Restland Memorial Park. Donations may be made to The American Lung Association, 8150 Brookriver Drive, Suite S-102 (LB151), Dallas, Texas 75247, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical School Foundation, #
      