
        SCHAFLER-Rubelle. The Board of Trustees, staff, consumers of YAI/National Institute for people with Disabilities notes with the deepest sorrow the loss of Rubelle Schafler. A distinguished member of our Board of Trustees for over three decades, she was a tireless crusader on behalf of the rights of people with mental retardation and developmental disabilities. Her life long advocacy to promote community inclusion for people with disabilities was instrumental in the establishment of many group homes, including the Rubelle Schafler Residence in Manhattan. Her concern for, and devotion to, young children with special needs was recently recognized through the naming of the Rubelle Schafler Early Childhood Center. Her courage and commitment will continue to serve as an inspiration to all of us. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her son Scott, her daughter Julie, and to her entire family. Marcella Fava, Chairman Dr. Paul H. Levitz, Vice Chairman Board of Trustees Dr. Joel M. Levy, CEO Dr. Philip H. Levy, Pres. and COO YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities
        SCHAFLER-Rubelle. The Acting President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Rubelle Schafler. Together with her late husband, Norman, the Schaflers were generous and devoted friends of the College-Institute. We extend our heartfelt condolences to their children, grandchildren and family whose loss we share. May they find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman J. Cohen Acting President Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Mr. Burton Lehman, Chair Board of Governors
        SCHAFLER-Rubelle. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Rubelle Schafler, a generous supporter and mother-inlaw of longtime ADL leader Pam Schafler. We extend our condolences to Scott, Pam and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director
      