
        DELANEY-Edmund T. Of Gorham Rd, Chester, CT. died Sunday (December 17), was a retired lawyer and an historian, lecturer and author of 5 books on regional history of New York and Connecticut: ''New York's Turtle Bay'' (1965), ''New York's Greenwich Village'', (1968), ''The Connecticut Shore'' (1970), ''A Photographic Guide to Greenwich Village'' (1976) with Charles Lockwood, ''The Connecticut River-New England's Historic Waterway'' (1983) and various articles in newspapers and magazines. He also edited and arranged Life in the Connecticut River Valley 1800-1840 based upon the recollections of John Howard Redfield. Receiving his secondary education in France and England, he graduated from Princeton University in 1933 and Harvard Law School in 1936. Mr. Delaney practiced law for over forty years in New York and Connecticut where he was most recently a partner of the New London and Essex firm of Copp, Kolestsky and Berall from which he retired in 1978. He was a member of the American Bar Assoc. and the Connecticut Bar Assoc. While in New York, he was a member of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York where he served as Chairman of the Committees on Corporate Law, Law and Medicine and the Committee on Art. He specialized on investment Company Law and served for 39 years as a director of the Oppenheimer Funds. He has been active in civic and community affairs over the past thirty years serving at various times as President of the Chester Historical Society, President of the Chester Rotary Club, trustee of the Connecticut River Watershed Council in Easthampton, Mass., & as a member of the Connecticut Historical Commission in Hartford. He was also a trustee of the Connecticut River Museum in Essex & active in the Rockfall Foundation in Middletown. He was involved in town affairs as Chairman of the Conservation Commission, as a member of the Town Retirement Board and as a Justice of the Peace. He represented Chester at the 3-1/2 Celebration of the Saybrook Colony in 1985 and was Chairman of the Chester Sesquicentennial Committee in 1986. Mr. Delaney was a member of Saint Joseph's Church in Chester, the history of which he wrote in 1991, St. Joseph's Parish-More than a Century of Faith. Long interested in historic preservation and conservation, he was a member of the historical societies of Deep River, Essex, and Lyme, of the Antiques and Landmarks Society and the National and Connecticut Preservation Trusts and Nature Conservancies. After serving in the Squardron A Cavalry of the New York National Guard, he went on active duty in the Field Artillery in 1940, graduating from the Field Artillery School at Fort Sill, OK., and serving as battery commander in the 105th Field Artillery. In 1941, he was transferred to the Military Intelligence Service on the General Staff in Washington where he became a Lieutenant Colonel and Chief on the Western European Branch and French Specialist in G-2 of the War Department General Staff. He accompanied Assistant Secretary of War John J. Mac Eloy on a special mission to North Africa in 1943. In 1945, he became Acting Counsel to the Army-Navy Liquidation Commission in Paris. He received three War Department Citations, the Army Commendation Ribbon and the French Medaille de la Reconnaissance Francaise. He married Barbara Snow in 1965 and has two children from an earlier marriage; Topher Delaney of San Francisco and Nick Delaney of Seattle and five grandchildren. He is also survived by his brother William of Reno, Nevada and a sister, Vivian Perez of Nerja, Spain and six nieces and nephews.
      