
        LINDSAY-John V. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater grieve the death of our former Chairman of The Board, who served the theater with singular dedication from 1984 to 1991. He led the theater with energy and enthusiasm to a previously unknown stability, and the theater's current sixteenth season is a living tribute to John Lindsay and the devoted people he gathered around him to insure that a permanent theater of artistic distinction be securely established at Lincoln Center For The Performing Arts. We extend our love to Mary, Katherine, Margie, Anne, and John, Jr. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater
        LINDSAY-John V. The Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the passing of our devoted friend, John V. Lindsay. He joined the Board in 1966 and became an Honorary Trustee in 1974. His distinguished career in law and public service, as a Congressman and as Mayor of New York City, and his tireless support of the arts, were inspirations to us all. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Mary, and to his entire family. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weill, Chairman Franz Xaver Ohnesorg, Executive and Artistic Director
        LINDSAY-John. The Richard Tucker Music Foundation and the Tucker family mourn the passing of our beloved friend Mayor John Lindsay, former Chairman of our Foundation's Board from its founding and through our first decade. His vision, guidance and enthusiasm for the fostering of young singers leaves a lasting legacy. All of us who love the arts are deeply grateful. We extend our sincere sympathy to the entire Lindsay family. Barry Tucker, President The Richard Tucker Music Foundation
        LINDSAY-John V. The Board of Directors and Members of the Association for a Better New York mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague. A founding ABNY member, he served on our steering committee for more than 27 years. He will be remembered with great affection by all of us for his tireless service to New York City. Our deepest sympathies are with Mary and the family. Lewis Rudin, Chairman Association for a Better New York
        LINDSAY-John V. We greatly mourn the loss of our fellow Player. He was one of the most charming and personable members in our 112 year history. John's mere presence in our clubhouse was always an event of great joy and celebration. The void created by his passing will be keenly felt by all of us-as Players and as New Yorkers. Our love and deepest sympathies to Mary and the family. The Players
        LINDSAY-John V. He is in great part responsible for nearly 10 million New Yorkers receiving services of Hospital Audiences, Inc. for the past 32 years. His foresight enabled the organization to begin its vital work with the mentally and physically disabled in the early '70's. We will remember him with great fondness. Michael Jon Spencer Founder and Executive Director The Board and Staff of HAI
        LINDSAY-John V. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, John V. Lindsay, and send condolences to his family.
      