
        HEARST-Randolph Apperson. On December 18, 2000 at the age of 85. Husband of Veronica, father of Catherine M. Hill, Virginia Anne Hearst Randt and Patricia Campbell Hearst Shaw, Anne Randolph Hearst, and Victoria Veronica Hearst, and four grandchildren. Church services will be held on Wednesday, December 20, at 2PM, at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, 869 Lexington Ave. at 66 St. A private burial service will be held in California. A memorial service will be held in NYC at a later date.In lieu of flowers a contribution may be made to Family Connection Literacy Program, C/O Dr. Jean Fuller, Superintendent, Bakersfield City Schools, 1300 Baker Street, Bakersfield, CA. 93305-4399.
        HEARST - Randolph Apperson. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the death of Randolph Hearst, who along with his wife, Veronica, has steadfastly supported the Museum through the William Randolph Hearst Foundation. With the endowments they established at the Museum to support photography exhibitions and the Department of Education, they have ensured that the Museum will be able to organize difficult and challenging exhibitions that might not otherwise be possible and make them accessible to the public at large. The Museum family-especially the members of The Chairman's Council and the Committee on Photography-extends its heartfelt sympathies to Veronica and his daughters and grandchildren. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        HEARST - Randolph A. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the loss of generous donor and long time friend, Randolph Hearst, whose support of the institution and its programs built on his father's legacy of giving to the Metropolitan Museum. As chairman of The Hearst Corporation and president of the William Randolph Hearst Foundation, he provided support for the Museum's educational activities, created an endowment for special exhibitions, and provided a grant for the conservation of the Walker Evans Archive. He was elected a fellow for life in 1996 and the foundation was a corporate benefactor of the Museum. His clear vision and his spirit of generosity will be greatly missed. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director David E. McKinney, President
        HEARST-Randolph A. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President
      