
        PERKIN-Gladys Talmage. On Tuesday, November 28, 2000, at home in New Canaan, Conn. Age 93. Beloved wife of the late Richard Scott Perkin, a founder of the Perkin-Elmer Corporation. Born Gladys Frelinghuysen Talmage on May 13, 1907, she was the daughter of Mr & Mrs John Frelinghuysen Talmage, of Brooklyn Heights and East Hampton, Long Island. She was a descendant of Captain Thomas Talmage, a founder of East Hampton in 1648, and Philip Rhinelander, 18th Century New York Merchant. She attended Pine Manor College and Pratt Institute and, in 1930, married investment banker, Richard S. Perkin. In 1937, she assisted him in the formation of the Perkin-Elmer Corporation, which became a leading manufacturer of optical systems and scientific instruments. Following Mr Perkin's death in 1969, Gladys Perkin devoted her life to philanthropy. As Chairman of The Perkin Fund, she supported the American Museum of Natural History, The Boston Academy of Music, Harvard's Center for Blood Research, The Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, The Juilliard School, The New England Conservatory, New York Presbyterian Hospital, Norwalk Hospital, Rockefeller University, The Waveny Care Center and The Wildlife Conservation Society. In 1980, Pratt Institute awarded her the degree of Doctor of Humane Letters. A long time member of the New Canaan Garden Club, Mrs Perkin also served for many years on the Visiting Committee of Harvard's Department of Astronomy and as a member of the Rockefeller University Council. Gladys Perkin is survived by three of her children, Richard T. Perkin of New York, Winifred Perkin Gray of Wenham, Mass., and Robert S. Perkin of Darien, Conn. Her son, John T. Perkin, died in 1997. She also leaves nine grandchildren, two great grandchildren and her brother, Theodore Frelinghuysen Talmage of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. Funeral services will be held at St. Mark's Episcopal Church, 111 Oenoke Ridge(Route 124), New Canaan, Conn at 11:00AM, on Monday, December 4. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions should be sent to St Mark's Episcopal Church or Waveny Care Center, both in New Canaan.
        PERKIN-Mrs. Richard S. (Gladys). The Rockefeller University deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend Gladys Perkin. Mrs. Perkin was a dedicated member of The Rockefeller University Council for more than fifteen years, helping four University presidents achieve their ambitious goals. Although she retired from the Council in 1992, she maintained an active interest in the University and inspired two succeeding generations of her family to become involved. Her generosity touched a broad spectrum of University research initiatives. Mrs. Perkin will be remembered for her keen mind, inexhaustible curiosity, and passionate commitment to the causes that engaged her and benefited from her involvement and steadfast advocacy. She will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to our Council members Richard T. Perkin and Kristina Perkin Davison, her son and granddaughter; her other children, Winifred Perkin Gray and Robert S. Perkin, and to the entire Perkin family. Arnold J. Levine, President Richard B. Fisher, Chairman David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman of the Council Joshua Lederberg, Frederick Seitz, and Torsten Wiesel, Presidents Emeriti
      