
        FELDESMAN-Lucille. United Seniors Health Cooperative lost a good friend. Among her many activities, Mrs. Feldesman was a contributor and supporter of the ''Dictionary of Eldercare Terminology'' authored by her husband, Walter Feldesman. It was illness in her family that inspired her husband to assemble the first-ever compendium of terms and concepts in the field of aging and Mrs. Feldesman provided constant encouragement for this ambitious undertaking.
        FELDESMAN-Lucille, my beloved irreplaceable wife, and my best friend for 56 years. Blessed by physical and inner beauty, self effacing, giving of herself to all who touched her life, rich of character, unassuming. She and I bonded a relationship of matchless deep love, and unsurpassed mutual trust. Walter
        FELDESMAN-Lucille. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of our dear friend, who with her husband, Walter, was a respected member of our Society of Founders. To Walter and the entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        FELDESMAN-Lucille, 75, of New York City, died on November 28, surrounded by her beloved family. She lived and exceptionally happy life, married for 56 years to her husband Walter whom she adored. She will be greatly missed by her loving children, Alyn and Steven, Jan and Michael, and Jimmy and Jill and her grandchildren, Robert, Jonathan, Richard, Jared, Jennie, and Jessica. Family will receive friends Thursday evening 7-9pm at ''The Riverside'' 76 St & Amsterdam Ave. Services Friday, December 1, 10am at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave at 65th St.
        FELDESMAN-Lucille. The Partners, associates and staff of Baer Marks & Upham LLP, wish to extend our sincerest sympathy and prayers to our esteemed colleague, Walter Feldesman, on the loss of his beloved wife, Lucille. We know how much Lucille will be missed by Walter and the entire Feldesman family.
      