
        MITCHELL-Stephen, Ph.D. On Dec. 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Margaret. Loving father of Caitlin and Samantha. Cherished son of Stanley & the late Lillian. Brother of Richard. Dear nephew of Florence & Leah Lutzky. Service Sunday 10:00 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. A memorial gathering will be held at a later date.
        MITCHELL-Stephen A., Phd. The sudden and untimely death of Dr. Stephen Mitchell on Thursday, December 21st, brought an immediate halt to the activities of the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute. His loss is deeply felt by the many friends, colleagues and students who have cherished him as a friend and teacher who made immeasurable contributions to the field. Indeed the world of psychoanalysis has lost one of its brightest stars at the height of his accomplishments. Dr. Mitchell's reputation as a brillant teacher was well established prior to his graduation from White in 1977. A seminal book, ''Object Relations in Psychoanalytic Theory,'' written with Dr. Jay Greenberg and published in 1983, was a major contribution to psychoanalytic theorizing and first brought the relational interpersonal approach to the attention of the psychoanalytic world. In the 17 years following, Steve Mitchell continued to write at an astonishing pace, publishing many important papers and books all of which are widely read. He also founded an edited the journal ''Psychoanalytic Dialogues.'' He had a formidable intellect which he made generously available to students and colleagues. He taught, discussed and debated with a swiftness and clarity that were both dazzling and daunting to his collegues. His beauty and elegance of thought and of writing transformed abstruse doctrine into coherent concepts valuable to students and professionals at all levels of sophistication. Stephen Mitchell was eagerly sought as a psychoanalyst, training analyst, a supervisor, a teacher, and a mentor. He was a deeply humane man: warm, boyishly charming, and truly loved. Those who were fortunate to know him well, were profoundly changed by his influence. Steve left an enduring legacy, yet we shall yearn for his deeply inspiring presence among us, and for his vision of future years at the Institute that bears his indelible stamp. Our love and deep condolences to his wife Margaret Black, to their children Caitlin and Samantha and to the rest of his family. Joerg Bose, MD, Director, White Institute Charles C. Harrington, Phd, President, Board of Trustees Elizabeth Hegeman, Phd. White Society
        MITCHELL-Stephen A. The Board of Directors and the community of the National Institute of the Psychotherapies join to convey our deepest sorrow at the loss of Stephen A. Mitchell, PhD. His devastating and untimely death is mourned by all of us who have known him as a friend, colleague, supervisor, teacher and guiding scholar. Steve Mitchell had a singular role in the development of relational psychoanalysis. His provocative, thoughtful, compelling and accessible books and papers have established an ongoing forum in the evolution of psychoanalysis, but his personal presence in this endeavor will be profoundly missed. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Margaret Black, a member of our Board of Directors and co-author and collaborator with Steve in his work, to their daughters, Caitlin and Samantha, and to their family.
      