
        LIEBOWITZ-Jack (Jacob) S. Of Old Westbury, L.I. and New York City. Died on December 11, 2000 at the age of 100. He was the adored and adoring husband of Shirley. They thank God for the 42 years of beautiful life together and hope the memories will be sustaining. His wonderful wife, Rose, died prematurely in 1956. He is survived by his devoted daughters, Joan Levy (George), Linda Stillman (Ronald), and stepson, Robert Schwartz (Jody). He was the grandfather of Richard (deceased), David (Jennie), Michael, Rosie (Rick), Robin (Richard), Jonathan (Denise), and Emily. Great grandfather of Joshua, Alex, Benjamin, Eliana, Leo, Ariana, and Harry. Services will be held at Temple Beth-el at 5 Old Mill Rd, in Great Neck, 11 AM, Wednesday, December 13.
        LIEBOWITZ-Jack. It is with the deepest sorrow that we mourn the passing of Jack Liebowitz, a Founding Trustee, a past President of the Board of Trustees of Long Island Jewish Medical Center and a Trustee and Honorary Chairman of the Board of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System. For fifty years, he unselfishly gave of himself for the benefit of the community and the hospital he loved. Without his guidance, generosity and inspiration, LIJ would not have developed into one of the pre-eminent medical centers in this region. Our most sincere condolences are extended to his entire family. John S.T. Gallagher, CEO Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman, Board of Trustees North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        LIEBOWITZ-Jack S. The Service Guild of Long Island Jewish Medical Center notes with sadness the passing of Jack S. Liebowitz, second President of the Medical Center and Honorary Board Chairman of the North Shore/Long Island Jewish Health System. Jack was the husband of the late Rose Liebowitz, Founding President of the Guild, father of Linda Stillman, immediate Past President and Joan Levy, longtime friend of the Guild. Jack's leadership and guidance had a strong and lasting influence on the development of the Guild. Right up to his 100th birthday he remained a loyal supporter of our activities. He will be sorely missed. Florence Hausner, Vivian Jaeger, Co-Presidents, The Service Guild
        LIEBOWITZ-S. Jack. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
      