
        LINDSAY-John V. Former Mayor of New York City, died Tuesday, December 19th in Hilton Head, SC. Mr. Lindsay was born in New York City on November 24, 1921 and was the son of the late George Nelson and Eleanor Vliet Lindsay. He attended Buckley and St. Paul's schools and was a graduate of Yale University and Yale Law School. During World War II he served on the USS Swanson as a Lieutenant in the United States Navy. He was a partner in the law firm of Webster & Sheffield and also served as executive assistant to the Attorney General from 1955 to 1957. A member of the United States Congress from 1958 to 1964, he represented New York City's 17th Congressional District. He served two terms as New York City's Mayor from 1965 to 1973. Prior to retirement in 1995, he was a counsel to the law firm Mudge, Rose, Guthrie. After his time in office, Mr. Lindsay served as Chairman of the Board of Lincoln Center Theater for ten years and then retired as Chairman Emeritus and board member emeritus of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts. Mr. Lindsay moved to Hilton Head Island, SC, in November of 1999. He is survived by his wife, Mary; a son, John V. Lindsay, Jr.; three daughters, Katharine Lake, Margaret Picotte, and Anne Lindsay; two sons-in-law, Stephen Lake and Michael Picotte; a brother, Robert V. Lindsay; and grandchildren Jessica and Stephanie Lake and Nicole, Joseph, and Michelle Picotte. Memorial services will be held January 26th at 4 P.M. at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. Memorial contributions may be sent to the John V. Lindsay Fund, Lincoln Center Theater, 150 West 65th Street, New York, New York 10023.
        LINDSAY-Mayor John V. The Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of John V. Lindsay, Mayor of New York City (1966-1973), member, U.S. Congress (1959-1966) and Director Emeritus of Lincoln Center. As Mayor, John Lindsay served ex officio on the Lincoln Center Board from 1966 to 1974 and he returned to the Board from 1984 to 1991 as the designee of the Lincoln Center Theater which he served as Chairman throughout that time. This beloved man of many achievements and unparalleled style served the people of New York City wisely & well throughout his career. We at Lincoln Center are grateful for his crucial role in ushering in a whole new and vibrant era for Lincoln Center Theater, one that extends to this day. We extend our deep sympathy to his wife, Mary and their children, Katharine L. Lake, Margaret Picotte, Anne R. Lindsay, John V. Lindsay, Jr. and to their grandchildren. Beverly Sills, Chairman of the Board Nathan Leventhal, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        LINDSAY-John V. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater grieve the death of our former Chairman of The Board, who served the theater with singular dedication from 1984 to 1991. He led the theater with energy and enthusiasm to a previously unknown stability, and the theater's current sixteenth season is a living tribute to John Lindsay and the devoted people he gathered around him to insure that a permanent theater of artistic distinction be securely established at Lincoln Center For The Performing Arts. We extend our love to Mary, Katherine, Margie, Anne, and John, Jr. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater
        LINDSAY-John V. The Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund extend our deepest sympathy to our former Trustee, Mary Lindsay and her family. John V. Lindsay was a great New Yorker, a visionary Mayor and a champion of the entire arts community. His work lives on in countless arts programs founded during his term of office, notably his support and encouragement of the founding of TDF's TKTS Discount Theare Center in Duffy Square in 1973. For this he has the gratitude of TDF and millions of theatregoers the world over. John F. Breglio, Chairman Theatre Development Fund
        LINDSAY-John V. The Trustees and staff of the Citizens Budget Commission mourn the passing of John V. Lindsay, esteemed Mayor of the City of New York and Trustee/Trustee Emeritus of the Commission since 1977. His contribution and dedication to improving the city will be an enduring inspiration in the work of the Commission. We extend our sincere sympathies to Mrs. Mary Lindsay and the entire Lindsay family. He will be remembered with great affection. Eugene J. Keilin, Chairman Diana Fortuna, President Citizens Budget Commission
        LINDSAY-John V. The Board of Trustees and Administration of New York Foundling Hospital mourn the passing of John V. Lindsay, a friend to New York City's children. He established the Mayor's Task Force on Child Abuse and Neglect of the City of New York, which was chaired by our Medical Director, Dr. Vincent J. Fontana. Mayor Lindsay was honored as the first recipiant of the Foundling's Legacy of Hope for Children Award in 1995. Our condolences to his wife and family. Sr. Carol Barnes, Brd Chairperson Michael Garber, Exec. Director
        LINDSAY-John V. The Trustees and Staff of the New York City Police Foundation deeply mourn the loss of a founder, friend and colleague. His commitment to excellence in policing and his love of and respect for the NYPD and its members ensured that generations of New Yorkers would benefit from the world's Finest police department. To Mary and his family we extend our heartfelt sympathies. George D. Benjamin, Chairman Pamela D. Delaney, President New York City Police Foundation
        LINDSAY-John V. The Board and Staff of the Neighborhood Coalition for Shelter recall John Lindsay with great fondness. His vision and support for providing housing and services for homeless people on the Upper East Side helped make it possible for NCS to help thousands of people find a way home. We will always appreciate his commitment to making New York a better place for everyone. We extend our sincere sympathies to his family.
      