
        INSALL-John, M.D. The Beth Israel Medical Center family and its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, join with the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery in acknowledging with sadness the death of John Insall, M.D., founder and co-director of the Insall Scott Kelly Institute for Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine at Beth Israel. A true pioneer in the field of knee surgery, Dr. Insall was world-renowned for his groundbreaking work in total knee replacement surgery, and was greatly respected as a superb teacher to scores of orthopedists throughout the world. His death is a great loss. Our heartfeld sympathy is extended to his family and loved ones. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Beth Israel and Continuum Peter A. Kelly President and CEO, Continuum Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO, Beth Israel W. Norman Scott, M.D. Chairman, Orthopaedic Surgery Sidney Stein, M.D. Pres., Medical Board, Beth Israel Robert L. Salant, President Doctors Alumni Assoc., Beth Israel
        INSALL-John, M.D. The partners and colleagues of the Insall Scott Kelly Institute of Orthopaedics and Sports Medicine extend our deepest sympathy to the family of our esteemed colleague and founder, John Insall, M.D. Since 1974, Dr. Insall's initial total knee design and its subsequent redesigns have been more widely used than any other knee prosthesis in the world. Brilliant in his innovations and his contributions to orthopaedic medicine, Dr. Insall's publications total over 200. He authored several key books that help direct the orthopaedic community, the most recent of which, ''Surgery of the Knee'', was published this year. His death is a great loss to his patients, colleagues, and the orthopaedic community. W. Norman Scott, M.D. Michael Kelly, M.D. Peter McCann, M.D. Giles Scuderi, M.D. Fred Cushner, M.D. Henry Clarke, M.D. Steven Harwin, M.D. Steven Silver, M.D. Chris Hubbard, M.D.
        INSALL-John, M.D. It is with deep sadness that we send our condolences to the family of our beloved colleague and friend, John Insall, M.D. We share the loss with his wife Mary, his son John, daughter - in - law Allison, and daughter Amanda, and grandson John. John was a man of extraordinary talent, intelligence and devotion to his family, friends, colleagues and patients. We will miss him. Norman and Susan Scott
      