
        DAVIS-Leonard. The City College of New York and its Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education/ CUNY Medical School mourn the passing of Leonard Davis, an alumnus who was a major benefactor of his alma mater. A 1944 graduate of CCNY, he and his late wife Sophie are responsible for the creation and funding of City College's performing arts center, Aaron Davis Hall, and the Leonard Davis Center for the Performing Arts, as well as the Sophie Davis School. His vision and generosity benefitted thousands of students and enriched the artistic and cultural life of our city. Leonard Davis' wisdom, friendship and commitment to CCNY will always be remembered and his memory will be forever honored. On behalf of City College's faculty, students and alumni, I wish to extend my deepest condolences to his two sons, Alan and Michael, and their families. Stanford A. Roman, Jr., MD, President, The City College of New York Dean, The Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education/ CUNY Medical School
        DAVIS-Leonard. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a good friend, who with his late wife, Sophie, was a Benefactor of our medical school and a Guardian of our University. The Leonard and Sophie Davis Foundation Research Laboratories at Einstein are an example of his deep commitment to biomedical research and education. To his sons, Alan and Michael, and to the entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Robert M. Beren, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        DAVIS-Leonard. With deep personal sorrow, I mourn the passing of Leonard Davis. For the world to lose Sophie last year was heart breaking. To lose both Sophie and Leonard within such a short period of time is tragic. Leonard Davis gave me and others around him great encouragement and support. He was always there to lend a helping hand and guidance to those in need. His advice was always brilliant. I will miss him. My only solace is that he and Sophie are together again. My sympathy to his sons, Alan and Michael, and their wonderful families. Ron Kochman
        DAVIS-Leonard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County mark with great sadness the passing of Leonard Davis, a pillar of Jewish life in the Palm Beaches. His unwavering support of the Jewish people and our community will forever serve as a valued inspiration and example to all who knew and loved him and for generations to come. We extend our deepest sympathy to his sons, Alan and Michael, and to the entire family. Eugene J. Ribakoff, President Jeffrey L. Klein, Exec. V.P.
        DAVIS-Leonard. The Board of Directors of The City College Fund extends its deepest sympathy to his family. As a longtime member of the Board, his thoughtful generosity and caring nature for the students and faculty at The City College of New York have left an indellible mark for future generations. He will be missed by all. Stanley H. Kaplan, Chairman Herbert Robinson, President
        DAVIS-Leonard. We now mourn Leonard's death so soon after Sophie's. Their names are perpetuated by the creative work made possible through their generous support. America-Israel Cultural Foundation Vera Stern, President
      