
        GLICKMAN-Martin I. He came to us in 1935, as a serious student and outstanding high school athlete. He joined Eta Chapter of Sigma Alpha Mu at Syracuse University and immersed himself in lifelong undergraduate friendships and a leadership role among his fraternity brothers. Some of us still here remember him well for his warmth, modesty, and his scholastic and athletic achievements. But most of all for becoming at one with his new ''family.'' Others, he will now meet again, in our Chapter Eternal, and forever revel in the joys of undergraduate life enjoyed those many years ago. We join with his wife, Marge, and his large family, in sympathy, and celebration for a wonderful life. It will be his memorial and legacy to his immediate family, his fraternity and his university. Eta Chapter S.A.M. Foundation Leonard Rubin, Bd. Ch. Emeritus Marshall M. Gelfand, President
        GLICKMAN-Marty. The Jewish Sports Congress mourns the passing of our founding chairman and loyal friend. Marty carried the torch proudly for all New York sports fans and was the champion for Jewish athletes world over. Heartfelt condolences to Marge and The Family, and may they be comforted by a lifetime of special memories of this beautiful man. David Kufeld, President Dr. Mike Cohen, Exec Vice Pres.
        GLICKMAN-Marty. Our hearts are heavy today as we say goodbye to our dear friend Marty Glickman. An intelligent, warm, loving man whose dynamic personality and love of life will remain in our memories always. We will envision Marty with his great big smile, his boating cap on and his love and devotion to Marge. We miss him already. Michael and Carol Weisman
        GLICKMAN-Marty. The Officers and Trustees of the New York Sports Museum & Hall of Fame regret the passing of a charter member of the New York Sports Hall of Fame on January 3 in New York. Bill Shannon, President Jordan Sprechman, Secretary
        GLICKMAN-Marty. He was an Olympic gold-medal winner in the human race. His warmth, kindness and friendship will be sorely missed. Our condolences to Marge and his family. Godspeed, Marty. Sari, Lynn and Seth
      