
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Alfred Koeppel, a friend and supporter of this organization, whose life and good deeds are continued by his family. To his wife, Ruth; to his children, Lynne and Caleb, Lesley and David, and Sarah and Robert Cohn; and to the entire family we extend our sincere condolences. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. Of New York City and Boca Raton, Florida, passed away January 19, after battling cancer for over two years. The third generation in his family's real estate business, where he worked for over 45 years, he emphasized the importance of dealing with others with respect and dignity at all times. His wisdom, guidance and leadership will be remembered forever. Koeppel & Koeppel 26 Broadway New York, NY
        KOEPPEL-Alfred. The Simon Wiesenthal Center extends its sincerest condolences to New York Executive Board member Caleb Koeppel and his family on the death of his father, Alfred. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Rabbi Marvin Hier, Dean and Founder Nelson Peltz, Co-Chair, Board of Trustees Rhonda Barad, Eastern Director And the entire S.W.C. Family
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. The Staff of Koeppel Tener Real Estate Services, Inc. marks with regret the passing of our distinguished founding Chairman of the Board. Alfred instilled in his company his gentlemanly ways, competitive spirit and honesty. The members of the company extend our warmest sympathy to his family and our co-workers Sarah, David and Caleb.
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Alfred J. Koeppel, an inspiring industry leader and friend for more than 45 years. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his wonderful family at this tragic time. Newmark & Co. Real Estate, Inc.
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. Our sincerest condolences to Ruth, Caleb, David, Sarah and grandchildren. Alfred was a great partner and a perfect gentleman. His memory will always be with us. Ed and Peter Riguardi
        KOEPPEL-Alfred. We deeply mourn the passing of our friend and business associate. He will be remembered for being synonymous with the word mensch. Camera Land
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. It was an honor to know Alfred. Our sincere sympathy to Ruth; Caleb, David and Sarah. Terence and Vivian Tener
      