
        BERGREEN-John. Beloved husband of Natasha Cowger. Cherished son of Adele and Morris Bergreen. Dear brother of Laurence Bergreen and Betsy. Wonderful uncle of Nicholas, Sara, Hanan, Tim, Jeff, Robert and Nanoucka. Generous, kind, unique, talented, charming and unforgettable John. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Monday and Tuesday, January 15 and 16, 7-9 PM. Services at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. at 65 St., Wednesday, January 17, 11:30 AM. Interment private.
        BERGREEN-John. The Skirball Cultural Center community in Los Angeles offers heartfelt condolences on the death of John Bergreen to his beloved wife Natasha, his dear parents, Morris and Adele Bergreen, pioneers of the Cultural Center, and his cherished brother and sister-in-law Laurence and Betsy Bergreen and their children. John's sensitive photography will remain a living testimony to his sweet gentle character. The family into which he was born is notable for the visionary values which have led his father and his mother to assume leading roles in the founding of the Skirball Cultural Center, dedicated to the enrichment of Jewish life and the life of the larger community. Audrey (Skirball) & Charles Kenis Family Friends and Trustees Myna and Uri Herscher Family Friends and Pres., CEO Howard I. Friedman, Chairman Skirball Cultural Center Board of Trustees
        BERGREEN-John. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses profound sympathy to the family of John Bergreen. Taken from this life before the fullness of years, our hearts reach out with compassion and caring concern. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who loved him be comforted in the preciousness of remembrance. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Sr. Rabbi Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        BERGREEN-John. The New York University community extends its deepest sympathies to the Bergreen family for the tragic loss of John. With his parents, Morris-an NYU Trustee-and Adele, longtime supporters of the University and its Medical Center, and all his loved ones, we grieve the passing of this fine young man, a member of NYU's extended family. L. Jay Oliva, President Martin Lipton Chairman, Board of Trustees
        BERGREEN-John. The editors of Commentary and the members of its Publication Committee mourn the death of John Bergreen, son of their dear friend Morris H. Bergreen, and send their deepest condolences to the entire family.
      