
        HOENER-Diethelm Bernd, age 60, died unexpectedly on January 17 at his vacation home, ''La Fleuriere'' in Cannes. Mr. Hoener was a financier, a philanthropist, and a noted collector of German expressionist art. Born in Allenstein, Germany, he graduated from the University of Koeln with a Masters Degree in Business Administration. Mr. Hoener then studied law in Goettingen, Germany before coming to the United States, where he earned an LL.M. degree from the University of California at Berkeley. Early in his career, Mr. Hoener served as a Vice President in the Corporate Finance and Merger and Acquisition Departments of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Morgan Stanley International in New York, Paris, and London. Mr. Hoener left Morgan Stanley to serve as the asset manager of a major private European investment pool and, in 1981 established a private investment company in New York to facilitate the re-allocation of his clients' assets into high-growth small capitalization equities in the United States, principally through a venture capital investment program. Having retired from active management, in recent years Mr. Hoener sought to promote venture capital investment in Europe and was honored by the ETH Zurich for initiating and sponsoring a highly successful lecture series on venture capital held in Zurich and St. Gallen. Mr. Hoener received awards from both Germany and the United States of America in recognition of his contributions to the promotion of German-American relations. For many years, he was a member of the board of directors of the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies. In addition to funding many other charitable causes, he was a principal supporter of the Fulbright Scholarship Program. His philanthropic efforts brought Mr. Hoener many commendations from governments and from private organizations. Most recently, he was cited by President Clinton for his work in connection with the Fulbright Program. Mr. Hoener is survived by his wife, Stephanie and his son, Philip. There will be a funeral mass at 10;30 am on Thursday, the 25th of January, at the Sacre Coeur du Prado church, Avenue du Prado, Cannes. In lieu of flowers, and in accordance with Mr. Hoener's wishes, memorial donations may be sent to: The Honeypot Charity, Barclay's Bank, Bracknell Branch, Bank Sort Code 20 - 11 - 74, Account Number 40762563, Codeword: Hoener
      