
        EDELSON-Kenneth Joseph. On January 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Jill for 45 years. Loving father of Geoffrey, David, Andrew and Joshua. Wonderful grandfather of Charlotte, Annabel, Oliver, Benzi and Mia. Devoted brother to Burt. Cherished father-in-law of Lisa, Cindy and Fiona, and brother-inlaw of Betty and Margot. Ken will be dearly missed. His memory will live on through his family, friends and all those he touched. Services Thursday, 10AM at Barnert Temple, 747 Rte 208 South, Franklin Lakes, NJ. 201-848-1800. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Living Independently Forever, National Down Syndrome Congress and Valley Home Care. We will think of you often, and smile when we do. EDELSON-Kenneth J. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with great sorrow the death of Kenneth J. Edelson. Ken was a devoted and caring volunteer, a member of the Westchester Divisional Committee and its liaison to Developmental Disability programs, and an active member of the Volunteer Services and Scholarship Committees. He was a special man who took on whatever job needed to be done. Ken continued until his death a friendship begun many years ago when he was a Big Brother to a young man. His wife, Jill, is a cherished member of the Divisional Committee for Services to the Developmentally Disabled and his son Andrew was a member of the JBFCS Friends. Our sincere condolences to Jill, their children and grandchildren. Seymour R. Askin, Jr. Chairman of the Board Joseph S. Kaplan President Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D Executive Vice President & CEO Paul Levine Assoc. Executive Vice President EDELSON-Kenneth J. The Divisional Committee and Staff of the Division for Developmental Disabilities of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with sadness the death of Kenneth Edelson, husband of Jill, our devoted committee member. Ken and Jill have always been good friends to those living with disabilities. Ken will be greatly missed. Susan Tofel Chair, Divisional Committee for Developmental Disabilities Joel S. Rosenshein, Ph.D Director, Division for Developmental Disabilties Esther Lustig Associate Director
      