
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. Of New York City and Boca Raton, FL passed away on January 19, 2001 after a lengthy fight against cancer. Loving husband of Ruth, devoted father of Lynne and Caleb, Lesley and David, Sarah and Robert Cohn and the late Sherri. Adoring grandfather of Melissa, Kyle, Allison, Max, Sam, Emily, Noah, Adam and Claire. Beloved son-in-law of Mildred Rubenstein, survived by his brother Bevin and sisters Geraldine Adler, Louise Feldman and Grace Gold. Funeral services will be held on Sunday January 21, 2001 at 10:00AM at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave at 65 St. Contributions would be appreciated greatly to either Trinity College c/o Development Office, Summit St, Hartford, CT 06106 or to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Ave, New York, NY 10021 att: Dr. David Pfister to be used for research into head and neck cancers.
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. The Acting President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors and Overseers, administration, staff, faculty and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the untimely death of Alfred J. Koeppel, devoted and beloved member of the Board of Governors. He served as wise counselor to the senior administration of this institution and his chairmanship of the Transition Team and the Nominating Committee of the Board was marked by a sincerity and integrity that was exemplary. His extensive experience with university life made him an indispensable asset to the workings of the College-Institute. He wore the mantle of his family's commitment to Hebrew Union College with distinction and with his untiring and selfless best. His memory will continue to be a blessing. We express our heartfelt condolences to his cherished wife Ruth, their loving children and grandchildren, whose loss we deeply share. May they find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman J. Cohen Acting President Mr. Burton Lehman, Chair Board of Governors
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, FL, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend, esteemed Board member and Officer of the Club, Alfred J. Koeppel, and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Ruth and their family. We admire your courage in your battle to remain with your loving family and friends. Our Board of Governors will miss your intellect, insight and fairness that helped guide us. Ira J. Gelb, M.D., President Boca Rio Golf Club, Inc.
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. The members of the Board of Trustees of Trinity College in Hartford are deely saddened by the death of Alfred Koeppel, former chairman of the Board, loyal alumnus of the College, and cherished friend. Together with the officers of Trinity, we extend our heartfelt sympathy to Alfred's beloved wife, Ruth, their children, Caleb, David and Sarah, their nine grandchildren, and all those who mourn the loss of this wonderful human being.
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. In sorrow, Temple Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Alfred J. Koeppel. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Sr. Rabbi Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of the Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of Alfred J. Koeppel, our esteemed member and also a past President of our Club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Martin Rosenman, President Mark Claster, Secretary
        KOEPPEL-Alfred James. We deeply mourn the passing of our dear, close, lifelong friend, Alfred Koeppel. He epitomized what friendship is all about. On behalf of the entire Greene family, we send our heartfelt condolences to Ruth, Caleb, David and Sarah. We shall miss him. His memory will be with us always. Helen and Alan Greene
        KOEPPEL-Alfred. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its highly esteemed long time member, Honorary Trustee and former Vice President of the Congregation. We extend deepest sympathy to Ruth and the entire family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        KOEPPEL-Alfred. You will always be part of our lives. Condolences to a gallant Ruth, Caleb, David and Sarah, and their families. Doris and Mel
        KOEPPEL-Alfred. Our heartfelt sympathies to the entire Koeppel family on the loss of their beloved Alfred. Alan, Patti, Josh and Adam Abramson
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. Our heartfelt sympathy to Ruth and the family on Alfred's passing. His loss will be felt by all. Glenna and Hal Citrin and family
        KOEPPEL-Alfred. Thanks Freddie, for all the good memories. Our best to Ruth and family. Joan and Rollin
        KOEPPEL-Alfred J. We will miss you, with fond memories. Joan and Arthur M. Spiro
      