
        LIEDERMAN-David S. Resident of New York City and originally from Malden, MA, died on Friday at the age of 65 from the effects of pancreatic cancer. Mr. Liederman was the eldest son of the late Pauline (Kaplan) and Harry Liederman. He is survived by his wife, Terry Gioia; his brothers and sisters-in-law, Steven and Janice and Larry and Marilyn; his children from his prior marriage to Toby (Newman), Wendy and Haim, Keith and Luanne and Larry; his grandchildren, Priel, Lora and Camille; and seven nieces and nephews. The family has requested that expressions of sympathy be made to the Child Welfare League of America at 440 First St. NW, 3rd Floor, Washington D.C. 20001 or the Council on Accreditation (''COA'') at 120 Wall St., 11th Floor, New York, NY 10005 or a local agency of your choice that serves children and families. There will be a memorial service in New York City on Sunday, January 14th, at 2 PM, at COA.
        LIEDERMAN-David S. Tireless Champion of Children in America. The nation has lost a powerful voice and advocate for its children and families with the passing of David S. Liederman Friday, January 12 at his home in New York. Mr. Liederman was president and chief executive officer of the New York City-based Council on Accreditation for Children and Family Services (COA). In his role, Mr. Liederman urged and assisted social service organizations across the country as they endeavored to provide services of the highest quality by meeting or exceeding national service delivery standards. Through its accreditation program, COA has helped to improve the lives of more than 6,000,000 individuals and families in the United States. Mr. Liederman was internationally known and deeply respected for his leadership on the national child welfare front. He will be greatly missed by colleagues and friends around the world and his death leaves a hole in many lives that will be hard to fill. COA and its member organizations extend thier deepest sympathies to the Liederman family. We will all miss David's compassionate leadership as well as his vision for our nation. The world is indeed a better place for the light, joy and love that David brought to it.
      