
        BLOOMER-Dr. William Ernest, (1916-2001), 84, of Pasadena, California, died Sunday January 14, at Long Beach Memorial Medical Center. His ten-year battle with cancer ended with his wife and children by his side. Dr. Bloomer was born in Denver Colorado, December 20, 1916, son of the late Charles and Winifred Bloomer. After moving to California, he graduated from Beverly Hills High School in 1934, and received his Bachelor of Science degree from Stanford University in 1938. He received his M.D. from Yale University School of Medicine in 1942, and completed his internship in surgical service at Stanford University Hospital in San Francisco in June of 1943. Serving in the United States Army Medical Corps from 1944 to 1946, he was stationed in Texas, England, and finally at Letterman Hospital in San Francisco, California. After the war, he returned to Yale University School of Medicine as a Fellow in Thoracic Surgery, and completed his residency in general and thoracic surgery at Yale New Haven Hospital. He was certified by the American Board of Surgery in 1952, and the Board of Thoracic Surgery in 1956. Following a fiveyear period as Assistant Professor in Surgery at Yale, Dr. Bloomer moved to California in 1959, enthusiastically embarking upon his lifelong career in thoracic and cardiovascular surgery. He joined Drs. Jerome H. Kay and Robert M. Anderson in private practice at St. Vincent's Hospital in Los Angeles. He was a Clinical Assistant Professor in Surgery at University of Southern California from 1959 to 1961. It was at this time that he published his most important work, ''Surgical Anatomy of the Bronchovascular Segment,'' coauthored by Drs. Averill A. Liebow and Milton R. Hales, which demonstrated his innovative techniques for using injection-molded plastics to study the anatomy of the lung. In 1960, Dr. Bloomer joined Dr. Robert M. Anderson in thoracic and cardiovascular surgery at the Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles. From 1961 through 1967, he was the Chief of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery at Los Angeles County Harbor General Hospital. He became an Associate Clinical Professor of Surgery at UCLA School of Medicine in 1961, holding that position until his death. In 1966, he joined Drs. Jerome A. Cope and Arthur J. Beland in Long Beach. He began his solo practice in 1969, based primarily out of Long Beach Memorial Medical Center. Dr. Bloomer was a member of numerous medical and surgical societies, to include locally, the Los Angeles and Long Beach Surgical Societies, regionally, the New England Surgical Society and Western Thoracic Surgical Association, and nationally, the American College of Surgeons, the Society of University Surgeons, the American Association for Thoracic Surgery, the Society of Thoracic Surgeons, the Society for Vascular Surgery, the International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery, and Sigma Xi. He is survived by his wife, Cornelia (Lee), his daughter Lianne Nall, his three sons Will, Robert and Charlie, and five grandchildren. A memorial service will be held in Long Beach California, at a time to be announced.
      