
        SHUFORD-Adrian Lafayette Jr., 90, industrialist and philanthropist, died Saturday. A former NC State senator, county commission chairman and town mayor, his career in the manufacture of socks, gloves, and abrasive equipment spanned most of the 20th century. Shuford, who maintained a residence in Manhattan, was a supporter of the performing arts in New York City. He was married to international concert pianist Dorothy Lewis-Griffith, who survives. A memorial service will be conducted Wednesday at 11 A.M. at Trinity United Church of Christ in Conover. A private interment was held today at Conover City Cemetery. Before his death Shuford had designated that memorials in his honor should be directed to Trinity United Church of Christ, 217 Second Avenue NE, Conover, NC 28613; The YMCA of Catawba Valley, PO Box 280, Conover, N.C. 28613; or Catawba College, 2300 West Innes Street, Salisbury, NC 28144. Shuford became a statewide figure of prominence in North Carolina while serving as a state senator. A life-long Democrat, he was elected to two terms in the Senate in the 1960's. During that period he was chairman of the Committee on Higher Education and helped spearhead the expansion of the University of North Carolina system. On Monday, NC Governor Jim Hunt issued a tribute to Shuford when he learned of his passing: ''I am sad to learn of the death of my friend Adrian Shuford. Senator Shuford was an exceptional leader of North Carolina and a true gentleman. Much of North Carolina's progress today in education and economic development has come because of his leadership in the state Senate. I am grateful for his life and extend my deepest sympathy to his family.'' Shuford served as mayor of Conover and as chairman of the Catawba County (NC) Board of Commissioners. At the time of his death he was trustee emeritus of Catawba College in Salisbury, NC. First elected to the Board of Trustees in 1944, he served as secretary of that board and was its chairman 26 years, from 1951 to 1977. Catawba College honored him with a Doctor of Humanitarian Service degree. In addition, the performing arts center on that campus was named from him and his wife. In his native community Shuford was honored in 1999 by the City of Conover by the establishment of the Adrian L. Shuford Jr. Conover Citizenship Award. He was cited for his contributions toward creation of the municipality's downtown park and town center. Shuford was the instigator of the founding of what is today the YMCA of Catawba Valley. He gave the property that is the site of the Adrian L. Shuford, Jr. YMCA Conover branch, established the endowment fund and was the first president of the YMCA. Educated at Cornell University and UNC-Chapel Hill, he returned to Conover in 1932 to become associated with the textile industry as president of Conover Knitting Mill and secretary of Warlong Glove Company, family businesses. Later he was a director of Riegel Textile Corporation and was a director of the Southern Hosiery Manufacturers Association and chairman of the National Association of Hosiery Manufacturers. While a young man Shuford was associated with Conover's first bank, Citizens Bank. He became president of Shuford National Bank and was a director of First National Bank of Catawba County and First Union. During World War II he was a Navy lieutenant, 1943-45. In 1959 he established Jackson Buff Corporation, which manufactured buffing and abrasive equipment, by buying several buffing equipment businesses around the country and moving them to Conover. The Rev. Dr. Arthur Caliandro of Marble Collegiate Church in New York City wrote Mrs. Shuford several weeks ago to inquire about her husband's health and declared: ''I have never met a more gentle, humble or sweeter human being. He is a very dear man, truly a beautiful soul.'' His first wife was the late Dorothy Cilley Shuford, who died in 1984. In addition to his second wife, he is survived by a son, Adrian L. Shuford, III of Newton, NC; a daughter, Dorothy Anna Shuford of Newton, NC; three sisters, Betty S. Yount of Winston-Salem, NC; Mary S. Palmer of Ann Arbor, MI; and Annie S. McBride of Laurinburg, NC and a brother, Dr. Wade Henry Shuford of Atlanta, GA; a stepdaughter, Dorothy Griffith of Banner Elk, NC & two step-grandchildren, Cole and Locke Curtis. Drum Funeral Home and Cremation Service is serving the Shuford family.
      