
        DAVIS-Leonard. The staff and Senior Fellows of the Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics at the University of Pennsylvania mourn the loss of Leonard Davis. Along with his beloved wife, Sophie, Leonard Davis had the vision to recognize the coming changes in the nation's health care system. Together, they created one of the country's first academic institutes devoted to improving the health of the public through careful study of the economic and social forces that shape health care. Under the Davis' guidance, and with their support, the Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics became a model that many other universities have hoped to emulate. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mr. Davis' sons, Alan and Michael; to his four grandchildren; to his entire family; and to the Davis' close friend & colleague, Marilyn Hoadley. David A. Asch, Executive Director
        DAVIS-Leonard. It is with profound sorrow that the American Jewish Committee mourns the death of Leonard Davis, a founder of our Institute on American Jewish-Israeli Relations, a member of our National Leadership Council, an inspired leader in our Palm Beach Campaign, and a longtime and cherished friend and generous benefactor. Leonard was a warm and wise man who understood and shared AJC's mission and message, particularly our vision to forge closer ties between the world's two largest Jewish communities. His kindness and devotion to his fellow Jews and to all people everywhere has left a shining legacy that time cannot erase. We send our deepest condolences to his sons, grandchildren and the rest of the grieving family. Bruce M. Ramer, President David A. Harris, Executive Dir. Jaime Kelstein, National Director of Development
        DAVIS-Leonard. The Leonard Davis School of Gerontology at the University of Southern California mourns the loss of its founder, Leonard Davis. Along with the outstanding contributions he made to education and the arts, Leonard Davis made an extraordinary difference in the lives of older adults. He pioneered the providing of insurance to older Americans, he co-founded AARP, and he founded the USC Leonard Davis School, the nation's premiere institution for aging research and education. The graduates from this school are, and will be, an ongoing legacy to Leonard and his beloved late wife, Sophie, who, through their generous foresight, have benefited all of us as we age. We extend our deepest sympathy to the Davis family at this difficult time. Edward L. Schneider, Dean USC Leonard School of Gerontology
        DAVIS-Leonard. Leonard was a cherished friend, who together with his beloved Sophie created a special world within which to live. A world of giving, caring, grace and beauty. We will forever feel the warmth of their friendship. Our deepest condolences to Allan and Michael & their families. Helen & Irving Schneider Lynn & Mindy & Families
      