
        SCHUSTERMAN-Charles. The Officers, Board of Trustees, and staff of United Jewish Communities mourn the passing of Charles Schusterman, whose lifelong involvement in philanthropy on so many fronts touched countless lives the world over. A true visionary, Charles' leadership was evident in funding a broad range of programs that enchanced Jewish life in the United States, Isarel and the former Soviet Union. His dedication to Jewish renaissance and renewal, especially among Jewish youth, has benefited many through the Charles and Lynn Schusterman Family Foundation, whose generous giving helped establish the first Hillel in the FSU. Charles also served with great distinction as co-chair of Hillel International Board of Governors, a member of the JDC Board of Trustees, member of the Board of Governors for Technion, and much more. As a founding partner of STAR, Synagogue Transformation and Renewal, Charles pursued his passionate commitment to the revitalization of the synagogue community in North America to stem assimilation and attrition. Honored in his community of Tulsa and the State of Oklahoma as an outstanding philanthropist, Charles championed numerous institutions and causes. Among them were the University of Oklahoma, the Parent Child Center, Planned Parenthood, and Anytown USA, a week-long residential program for high school students from throughout the state that enhances leadership development and human relations skills. Charles was also a man of extraordinary bravery and inspiration, whose positive attitude allowed him to thrive in his tireless commitment to Jewish faith, culture and family. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Lynn, and the Schusterman family. Charles R. Bronfman, Chairman of the Board Joel D. Tauber, Chairman, Executive Committee Stephen D. Solender, President and CEO
        SCHUSTERMAN-Charles. The World Union for Progressive Judaism mourns the loss of our esteemed friend and partner. Charles was an internationally respected leader and pioneer philanthropist whose extraordinary generosity was directed toward dynamic initiatives designed to promote Jewish education, the strengthening of Jewish identity and the renewal of synagogue life in Israel, North America and the former Soviet Union. Mercaz Shimshon, the Reform Movement's new cultural center in Jerusalem named in memory of Charles' father, is the most recent example of the institutions and programs which will perpetuate the legacy of this most distinguished and dedicated lover of Zion. May God grant strength and comfort amongst the mourners of Zion to his beloved wife Lynn and to his cherished family. WORLD UNION FOR PROGRESSIVE JUDAISM: Austin Beutel, President Rabbi Dow Marmur, Executive Director Rabbi Richard G. Hirsch, Honorary Life President ARZA/WORLD UNION, N.A.: Philip Meltzer, President Rabbi Ammiel Hirsch, Executive Director
        SCHUSTERMAN-Charles. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Charles Schusterman of Tulsa, OK., a visionary ATS supporter. He established the Charles Schusterman Fund for Russian Olim at the Technion, which was instrumental in retraining new immigrants, as well as the Charles and Lynn Schusterman Dormitory, and was a member of the ATS National Board of Directors and the Technion International Board of Governors. We extend heartfelt condolences to Lynn Schusterman and the entire family. American Society for TechnionIsrael Institute of Technology Lawrence S. Jackier, President Irving A. Shepard, Chairman of the Board Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Hershel M. Rich, Chair Southwest Region
        SCHUSTERMAN-Charles. On behalf of the entire birthright israel partnership, we mourn the loss of Charles Schusterman, a philanthropic pioneer who led by his generous example of tzadakah. May the Schusterman family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem, and may Charles' memory be for a blessing. Charles R. Bronfman, Co-Founder, birthright israel Int'l Michael H. Steinhardt, Co-Founder, birthright israel Int'l Dr. Shimshon Shoshani, CEO birthright Int'l Marlene Post, Chairperson, birthright israel USA
        SCHUSTERMAN-Charles. Jewish Life Network mourns the untimely death of Charles Schusterman, a world-class philanthropist, a treasured partner, wise counselor, leader and friend. His heart embraced all of Jewry and the world. May Lynn and the family be comforted with all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Michael Steinhardt, Chairman Rabbi Irving Greenberg, President Jonathan J. Greenberg, Executive Director
        SCHUSTERMAN - Charles. The Jewish Outreach Institute joins the entire Jewish community in mourning the passing of a great Jewish leader and philanthropist, and esteemed member of our Board of Directors. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Lynn and the entire Schusterman family. Terrence A. Elkes, President Dr. Kerry M. Olitzky, Executive Director
      