
        PIERREPONT-John, 84. On January 10, 2001 after a short illness. Son of the late Ruthurfurd Stuyvesant and Nathalie de Castro Pierrepont, he is survived by his widow, Nancy Weller Pierrepont, a son, John Jay Pierrepont, a daughter, Margaret V.B. Pierrepont, a step-daughter, Nancy Dewey Hoppin, and three grandchildren. His principal interests were in his family and in some of the great charitable institutions of our city: the Wildlife Conservation Society, the Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, and the New York Botanical Garden, and in the growth and well-being of the Knickerbocker Club. A memorial service will be held in New York City at St. James' Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Ave. at 10:30AM on Thursday, January 18. Contributions in his memory may be sent to the attention of Laura James at the Wildlife Conservation Society, 2300 Southern Blvd, Bronx, NY 10460.
        PIERREPONT-John. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the passing of our great friend and generous benefactor. A board-member since 1960, Jackie was a guiding force and one of WCS's most effective ambassadors. He served in a number of leadership roles including Treasurer and Chair of the Development and International Conservation Committees. His expertise helped drive an unprecedented expansion throughout the organization. In 1989, WCS honored Jackie by creating the John Pierrepont Wildfowl Marsh at the Bronx Zoo. With his hallmark knowledge, charm and wit, Jackie made so many friends for WCS. He was passionately involved in our mission to preserve wild animals and wild places around the world. Our sympathies to his wife, Nancy, and their family. David T. Schiff, Chairman James M. Large, Jr., Acting President
        PIERREPONT-John. We mourn the loss of Jack Pierrepont, our honorary board member, past president, chairman and honorary chairman. Jack was a special man, committed to helping others as exemplified by over 40 years of service to Lenox Hill Neighborhood House. He was a man of elegance, style and caring who contributed in countless ways to further our mission of helping people in need. We will miss him and send our condolences to his beloved family. Diana R. Quasha, President Nancy Wackstein, Exec Director Lenox Hill Neighborhood House
        PIERREPONT-John. A man of elegant courage, whose strong heart and noble spirit strengthened so many institutions in New York, and inspired so many of us, touched by his perpetual kindness. Our deepest sympathy to his extraordinary wife, Nancy, and his beloved children. Francis X. Morrissey, Jr.
      