
        GREENSTEIN - Joseph. Joseph Yussy, Don Jose Greenstein, age 78 died at home peacefully after a long illness on January 9. Master builder, jungle explorer, founder of Su Casa North and South and World War II veteran. Born in the Bronx, New York, son of David and Goldie Greenstein. Survived by his beloved wife of 53 years, Miriam Nates Greenstein; father of daughters Robin Wolfson of Port Chester, New York, and Jody Soltanoff of Woodstock, N.Y.; grandfather of granddaughters Kimberly Wolfson Lisack & Kacey Wolfson; grandsons Dr. Gregory Soltanoff and Eric Soltanoff and Joseph Lisack; sons-in-law Larry and Peter; brothers Morris and Irving Greenstein; special friends Carlene and Tyler. Those closest to him know he will soon be back at work, wearing his tool belt, fixing whatever has to be repaired and loving it. You live forever in our hearts-Adios-. Services Thursday, January 11, 1:15PM, Riverside Funeral Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, N.Y.C. Contributions in his memory may be sent to La Cruz Rojo, ''Mexican Red Cross'' Isla Mujeres, Quintan A Roo Mexico 77400. Your loving wife and Daughters.
        GREENSTEIN-Joseph. Age 78. With heavy hearts and great sadness we say adios to our dear Yussy. Husband, father, uncle, grandfather, teacher and mentor. A self made man who truly did things his way. After serving with the armed forces in World War II, he became a very successful builder of private homes throughout Westchester County. In later years, he and his spectacular wife of 53 years, Miriam, owned and operated Su Casa, a unique summer resort hotel in upstate New York. Every winter for 35 years, they spent in the Yucatan on Isla Mujeres, Mexico, where they pioneered a lifestyle and built a beautiful home on the water. Yussy, there was no one like you. You'll be in our hearts and minds forever. Rest in peace. We all hope for happier days to come. Shiva will be observed at 12 Wilkie Avenue, Kingston, New York. With much love, The Greenstein, Soltanoff, Wolfson, Silverstein, Lisack and Schwalbe Families.
      