
        Le CLERCQ-Tanaquil. She was, above all else, an artist of singular gifts-what Edwin Denby called a ''Heavenly Radiance.'' Peter Martins, the New York City Ballet, and the School of American Ballet, profoundly mourn her passing. Tanny was one of New York City Ballet's first great ballerinas, originating roles in such ballets as George Balanchine's ''The Nutcracker'', ''The Four Temperaments'', and ''Western Symphony'' and Jerome Robbins's ''Afternoon of a Faun'' and ''The Concert''. Balanchine choreographed at least 21 ballets on her, using her poignant wit and brilliant technique to expand his own work. Taney was Balanchine's student, his wife and his trusted friend. She was also a fine portrait photographer, an author and an ardent advocate for Balanchine's choreography, always encouraging companies around the nation and the world to perform his works. She leaves behind a wide audience of admirers who will never forget the magic of her dancing or the daring nature of her spirit. Tanny will be remembered not only for her remarkable gifts, but also for her astounding courage in the face of debilitating illness, her keen intelligence, her beauty and her humor and her exceptional generosity. She was a vibrant and creative woman who will continue to be an inspiration to generations of dancers, as well as to her devoted friends. Peter Martins School of American Ballet New York City Ballet
        LECLERCQ-Tanaquil. We mourn the passing of our friend and fellow Board Member, Tanaquil LeClercq. As a ballerina, she was a source of amazement and delight. Her courage and high spirits in later life, in the face in the gravest affliction a dancer could know, will remain an inspiration. The George Balanchine Foundation
        LE CLERCQ-Tanaquil. We note with deepest sorrow the death of Tanaquil Le Clercq, who began her brief but brilliant career with Ballet Society. A wondrous ballerina, beautiful and witty, she gave us new insights into the art of ballet. In later life she was an exemplar of courage and grace to us all. Ballet Society Inc.
        LE CLERCQ-Tanaquil. Services at Church of Saint Ignatius of Antioch, 552 West End Ave, entrance on 87th Street, Friday January 5, 2001, at 10 A.M. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to Meals On Wheels or other charity.
      