
        KOEN-Julie. Beloved wife of Robert Koen. Loving mother of Jennifer and Jonathan Koen and mother-in-law of Mark Horowitz. Cherished daughter of Jerome and Norma Marsh of Livingston, NJ and daughter-in-law of Martha Koen and the late Bernard Koen of Great Neck, NY. Devoted and adored sister of Amy Katz of North Caldwell, NJ and Cindy Dolgin of Great Neck, NY. Julie is also survived by the most wonderful group of friends who were like family to her. Julie was our precious gift-to love and be loved by. Her strength, beauty and spirit will always be with us. For 20 years Julie taught young children creative movement and dance at the Great Neck Community School and Temple Beth-El Early Education Center. She also loved to dance herself, spending many years at Zawaki Dance Studio. The world won't be the same without our Julie. Services are today 11:30AM at Temple Beth-El, 5 Old Mill Rd., Great Neck, NY. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions to the Julie Koen Memorial Fund c/o 14 Meadow Woods Rd., Great Neck, NY 11020, which will be donated to fund breast cancer research.
        KOEN-Julie. You were a shining light and a true friend. Your courage, bravery and fighting spirit were an inspiration to all. Our hearts are sad but we will always remember your warmth, energy, laughter and good will. Our condolences to the Koen and Marsh families and to our entire community who will miss you. The Granoff family
        KOEN-Julie. Julie-thank you for enriching our lives. Our mourning is filled with happiness of memories of you. They will always be a part of us. We miss you so very much! With love, Sharyn, Bob and Pamela Lori, Bob, Alex, Michael and Carly
        KOEN-Julie She brought life, joy and an incredible spirit into every room she entered, into every life she touched. Our deepest sympathies to the entire family. Kal & Peggy Dolgin & Family
        KOEN-Julie. Our hearts are saddened at the untimely passing of our dear friend. Julie's enthusiasm for life will be missed by all of us. Our love and condolences to the entire family. The Finkelsteins
        KOEN-Julie. Your vibrance and spirit touched all you knew. You will always dance in our hearts. Our deepest sympathy and love to the Koen and Marsh families. Marcia and Ted Salomon
        KOEN-Julie. To our dear beloved Julie, you have strengthened our lives by showing us how you lived yours. Judy, John, Andrea, Laura and Lloyd
      