
        STAMPFLE-Felice died Sunday, December 31, 2000 in Kennett Square, PA. She was 88. Born in Kansas City, MO., and educated at Washington University and Radcliffe College, she was the Charles W. Engelhard Curator Emeritus of Drawings and Prints at the Pierpont Morgan Library in New York City and had been in charge of the Library's drawings from 1945 until her retirement in 1984. During her tenure as curator, Ms. Stampfle was responsible for a number of catalogues focusing on aspects of the Morgan's collection, in particular, Drawings by Giovanni Battista Piranesi, Rubens and Rembrandt in Their Century, and the 3-volume series, in collaboration with Jacob Bean of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Drawings from New York Collections. From 1963 to 1984, she also served as the first editor of the journal, Master Drawings. Subsequent to her retirement, she published the first of two volumes: Netherlandish Drawings of the 15th and 16th Centuries and Flemish Drawings of the 17th and 18th Centuries. The second volume, devoted to Dutch drawings of the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries, is forthcoming. Ms. Stampfle was preceded in death by her parents, Harry and Grace (Suiter) Stampfle, a niece Susan Felice Corrigan and her brother, Robert B. Stampfle, and is survived by nieces, Margaret Farrell of Acton, MA., and Mary Troutman of Bethlehem, PA. Burial services will be private. The family suggests contributions in her memory be made to: National Endowment for the Arts, 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, D.C. 20506.
        STAMPFLE-Felice. The Trustees and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Library mourn the death of Felice Stampfle. She was the Charles W. Engelhard Curator, and Head of the Department of Drawings and Prints at the Library for nearly 4 decades beginning in 1945. She was made an Honorary Fellow of the Library in 1985. Her longstanding commitment to the collection of drawings and prints and to the institution was most significant. We extend deepest sympathies to her family. Charles E. Pierce, Jr., Director S. Parker Gilbert, President, Board of Trustees
      