
        DAVIS-Leonard. The City University of New York deeply mourns the death of Leonard Davis, alumnus of The City College of New York/CUNY, visionary philanthropist and insurance executive. He and his beloved wife Sophie Davis, who passed away four months ago, were the benefactors responsible for the creation and funding of the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education/CUNY Medical School, a unique 7-year combined B.S./M.D. program to encourage minority students to become doctors and to produce physicians for underserved communities; The Aaron Davis Hall Performing Arts Center; and the Leonard Davis Center for the Performing Arts at City College. Their extraordinary generosity will long be remembered. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Davis family. Herman Badillo, Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew Goldstein, Chancellor
        DAVIS-Leonard. Thanks To Scandinavia notes with sadness the passing of Leonard Davis, dear personal friend and long time advocate of the moral imperatives of Thanks To Scandinavia. Early on, he and his beloved late wife Sophie, recognized a commitment to the Scandinavian people, governments and churches for the heroic rescue efforts in saving thousands of Jewish lives during World War II. The Thanks To Scandinavia Leonard and Sophie Davis Scholarship awarded annually to Scandinavian students for study in the U.S. will remain a perpetual monument to their compassionate sense of human purpose. Our sincere condolences to the entire Davis family. Richard Netter, President
        DAVIS-Leonard. A philanthropist whose generosity offered hope and beauty. A visionary whose insight offered inspiration. A pillar whose support offered courage. A peacemaker whose quiet and gentle demeanor offered serenity. A husband and father whose devotion served as a hallmark. A dear friend whose loyalty will be forever cherished. My condolences to his sons, Alan and Michael, and their families. I will miss him greatly. May we all find comfort in knowing that he and Sophie are reunited. Diane Belfer
        DAVIS-Leonard. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff wish to extend our heartfelt sympathy and deepest condolences to the family and friends of our benefactor Leonard Davis. His devotion to Israel and Music will long be remembered. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman Co-Chairman Herman S. Sandler, President Albert Schussler, Pres. Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Director
      