
        WELLS-Thomas Moore. Of Scarborough, New York, architect, died after a long illness on January 16, 2001 at his home. He was 59. Mr. Wells was born April 10, 1941 in Boston, Massachusetts. He received his B.A. from Dartmouth College in 1963 and his Masters of Architecture from Columbia University in 1969. Mr. Wells lived in Scarborough, New York for twenty years. Before that he lived in New York City and Boston, Massachusetts. Mr. Wells will be remembered as an architect in the inner city in Newark and East Harlem; for his recent work as a trustee at the Convent of the Sacred Heart, Greenwich, Ct; for the many boats he built and his passion for the sea; and for his warmth, humor and generosity. He is survived by his wife Rosemary of Scarborough, daughter Victoria of New York City, anddaughter Marguerite currently studying in Edinburgh, Scotland, sister Carolyn Wells of West Bend, WI, sister Merritt Wells Stites of Salt Lake City, Utah, brother Theodore of Philadelphia, PA, mother Marianne Monroe Glazier of Salt Lake City, and his two faithful dogs, Snowy and Lucy. A memorial service will be held at the Convent of the Sacred Heart in Greenwich, Ct, Saturday, January 20, 2001 at 10 A.M. Interment will follow at New Fernwood Cemetery in Kingston, RI at 4 PM. Friends may send memorial donations to the Appalachian Mountain Club, the Sierra Club or the Convent of the Sacred Heart.
        WELLS-Thomas M. Dedicated Trustee, committed Chair of the Building and Grounds Committee who devoted his time and energy to the expansion and enrichment of the academic program at Convent of the Sacred Heart, Greenwich through the creation of the Eileen Dealy Gillespie Science Center, the observatory, the soccer field, and tennis courts in celebration of the 150th anniversary of our School. His abiding goodwill, generosity of spirit, and dedication to the goals of a Sacred Heart education are an inspiration to all. The administration, faculty, students, and friends extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Joan Magnetti, rscj, Headmistress John N. Irwin III, Chair Board of Trustees
      