
        MUDGE-Shaw. Founder and Chairman of Shaw Mudge & Company in Shelton, CT. Died suddenly Tuesday evening, January 23, 2001. He was at home with his wife, Patricia Grant Mudge. In addition to his wife, Shaw Mudge, 77, is survived by two sons, The Reverend Shaw Mudge, Jr. of Walton, NY and Grant Mudge, President of Shaw Mudge & Company, and five grandchildren. Mudge graduated from The Choate Rosemary School in 1941 and was a member of The Chi Psi Fraternity at Yale University graduating class of 1945W. During World War II, Mudge served as Lt. j.g. in the ''Small Boat'' Navy performing convoy escort duty in the Atlantic and Pacific. Before co-founding Shaw Mudge & Company in 1969, Mudge co-founded P. Robertet Inc., manufacturers of aromatic compounds in 1947. Mr. Mudge held leadership positions many industry, civic, environmental, and political organizations. Mudge was Chairman of the National Advisory Council to the U.S. Senate Committee on Small Business. He also served as Connecticut's Co-Chairman to the White House Conference II on Small Business. Mr. Mudge was founding director of National Small Business United as well as a current board member of The Fragrance Materials Association. The Society of Cosmetic Chemists recognized Mudge with The Merit Award, and in 1985, he became the SACIA's (Southwestern Area Commerce & Industry Association of Connecticut) first Small Business Advocate of the Year. Also in 1985, he received a Certificate of Appreciation from the Animal Protection Institute in Sacramento for his efforts to save the wolf and grizzly bear by including them on the Endangered Species list. Funeral services will take place at the Second Congregational Church on 139 Putnam Avenue in Greenwich, Connecticut beginning at 2 PM on Saturday, January 27. Instead of flowers, donations would be welcome at The Camp Pasquaney Trust, 5 South State Street, Concord, NH 03301.
        MUDGE-Shaw. The Fragrance Materials Association of the United States mourns the loss of a longtime friend and member of the Board of Directors. The Chairman and founder of Shaw Mudge & Company died at his home in Greenwich CT on Tuesday, January 23, 2001. A memorial service will be held at the Second Congregational Church, 139 East Putnam Avenue, Greenwich CT on Saturday, January 27, 2001 at 2PM. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to Camp Pasquaney, 5 South State Street, Concord NH 03301.
        MUDGE-Shaw. The Society of Cosmetic Chemists mourns the death of Shaw Mudge. Shaw was a dedicated member since 1957 and earned Emeritus status. He was a generous benefactor whose company sponsors the Society of Cosmetic Chemists Award each year. He was an asset to our Society and to all who knew this distinguished gentleman. With condolences to his wonderful family.
      