
        DAVIS-Leonard. The American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem deeply mourn the passing of Leonard Davis, AFHU Council of Trustees member and longstanding leader and an Honary Governor of the Hebrew University. Leonard and his late wife Sophie, were longtime supporters and Benefactors of The Hebrew University, as well as many secular and Jewish causes in Florida and New York. In 1972, they established the Leonard Davis Institute for International Relations at Hebrew University to deepen the understanding of international relations by various means, including the promotion of research, the organizing of workshops, conferences and seminars, and the publication of research. Other programs at the University that have benefitted from their generosity include the Sanford F. Kuvin Center for the Study of Infectious and Tropical Diseases and the Bernard Cherrick Center for the Study of Zionism, the Yishuv and the State of Israel. Leonard's wise counsel and dedicated support provided the foundation for AFHU activities in Palm Beach, Florida. In 1977, Hebrew University conferred an Honorary Doctorate of Philosophy on Leonard in recognition of his farsighted concern and his continuing and wholehearted support for scholarship in the service of mankind. We extend our deepest condolences to his sons Alan and Michael, his four grandchildren, and the entire family. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President Professor Menahem Ben-Sasson, Rector Yigal Arnon, Chairman of the Board of Governors American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs Chairman of the Board Barbara A. Mandel Honorary President Adam B. Kahan Executive Vice President
        DAVIS-Leonard. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Leonard Davis, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. Mr. Davis shared a deep devotion to Jewish and humanitarian causes with his late wife, Sophie. Together, they touched the lives of millons of people who have benefited from their extraordinary generosity. Through his support of UJA-Federation and its affiliated agencies, Mr. Davis was dedicated to ensuring the welfare of the Jewish community and improving health care for children and the elderly. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mr. Davis' sons, Alan and Michael; to his four grandchildren; and to his entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair John S. Ruskay, Executive V.P. & CEO Ernest W. Michel, Executive V.P. Emeritus
      