
        KOHNSTAMM-Paul L. Died January 10, 2001. Fourth generation President, H. Kohnstamm & Co. and champion of many causes. Husband of Maisie for 56 years. Brother of Elizabeth Ogden and Richard. Beloved father of Kenneth, Peter, Daniel, Joshua, Katherine Piven, Emily Beal and 11 grandchildren. Memorial Service, 3 PM, February 4 at the Hospital for Joint Diseases, 301 E. 17th Street, NY. Contributions welcome at the above.
        KOHNSTAMM-Paul.The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute mourn the passing of Paul Kohnstamm, distinguished Honorary President and Chairman of the Board of Trustees. Mr. Kohnstamm served as President from 1979 to 1980 and as Chairman from 1981 to 1985. He has been a longstanding, committed friend and benefactor of the hospital and his foresight and encouragement will live on in perpetuity as he leaves a legacy of support which will continue to impact on the advancement of our major initiatives. We mourn his passing as we celebrate his exemplary life and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Maisie, his children Kenneth, Peter, Daniel, Katherine, Joshua, Emily and to the entire family. William A. Perlmuth, Chairman Of The Board John N. Kastanis, FACHE President and CEO Victor H. Frankel, M.D. President Emeritus Joseph D. Zuckerman, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief
        KOHNSTAMM-Paul L. The Board of Trustees in Administration of the Jewish Home and Hospital mourn the passing of Paul Kohnstamm, 50 year board member and Life Trustee who continued a family tradition of service to the Home begun by his father Lothair in 1936. He was a deeply committed friend and his years of dedicated service earned him the respect and regard of all who knew him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Maisie, his six children and the entire family. David A. Jones Chairman of the Board Sheldon Goldberg, President/CEO
        KOHNSTAMM-Paul. The Board, members and staff of the Richard G. Rosenthal YM-YWHA of Northern Westchester want to extend their deepest sympathies to the family of Paul Kohnstamm, devoted husband, father, and brother on his untimely passing. Paul was instrumental in helping to guide the growth and development of this institution during its formative years. May his memory remain for a blessing. Marsha Newman, President Lois Rosenthal, Chair Emeritus Joel B. Karpp, Executive Director
      