
        BEAME-Abraham D. Former Mayor of New York City. 94, on February 10, 2001, after a long illness. Survived by his son Bernard, a brother Jack of North Miami Beach, FL, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Services Tuesday, February 13, 2001, at 11:45 AM, at Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67th St. In lieu of flowers or other gifts please make contributions to the Abe and Mary Beame Scholarship Fund at Baruch College of City University of New York.
        BEAME-Abraham D. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar, Abraham D. Beame, and we extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. The former Mayor of New York City was a dedicated and loyal member of the Friars Club and served as Chairman of the Board of their philanthropic organization, The Friars Foundation. He has been a stabilizing force of the Friars since he held office as New York's highest city official in 1974. His no nonscense style, his love of arts and entertainment has made him a cherished Friar and dear friend. He will be sorely missed. Services will be held at Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67th St. on Tuesday, February 13, at 11:45 AM. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Sally Jessy Raphael, Prior David B. Cornstein, Treasurer Stewie Stone, Scribe Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec Dir
        BEAME-Abraham D. The Officers and Directors of The Friars Foundation deeply mourn the loss of their beloved chairman, Abraham D. Beame, and extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. As Chairman of The Friars Foundation for almost 20 years, he was fierce in his dedication to excellence and continued support of humanitarian causes. We are deeply indebted to the personal guidance he provided us while serving on the Board. We are honored and proud to have been touched by Mayor Abraham D. Beame who dedicated his life to public service. Services will be held at Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67th St. on Tuesday, February 13, at 11:45 AM. Leo Greenland, President Herbert J. Siegel, V. Pres. Gedalio Grinberg, V. Pres. Cy Leslie, V. Pres. Robert B. Fields, Treasurer
        BEAME-Abraham D. The Board of Directors of The City College Fund mourns the passing of their distinguished colleague Mayor Abraham D. Beame. His devotion to his Alma Mater, The City College of New York, and his distinguished service on our Board will be long remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Stanley H. Kaplan, Chairman Herbert Robinson, Esq., President James L. Schatz, Exec Director
        BEAME-Honorable Abraham D. Park East Synagogue mourns its devoted member, Mayor Abe Beame. Proud New Yorker who has rendered distinguished public service to our city. To his son, Bud and the entire family our deepest sympathy. Funeral services Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67th St, Tuesday, February 13, 11:45 AM. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        BEAME-Abraham D. Born in London almost 95 years ago. Abe Beame rose through the ranks until elected mayor of the greatest city in the world. At great personal sacrifice he made the tough decisions to save New York City. All citizens owe Mayor Beame a debt of gratitude. He was a giant of a man. We will miss our dear personal friend. Jackie and Stanley Friedman
      