
        TENBRINCK-Margaret S., M.D., F.A.A.P., Feb 28, 1911-Nov 16, 1998. The family of Dr. Tenbrinck wishes to pay loving tribute to her on the occasion of what would have been her 90th birthday. A graduate of Barnard with her M.S. in Chemistry and M.D. from New York University, and a Board Certified pediatrician, Dr. Tenbrinck had a lengthy and distinguished medical career in practice, teaching and industry. Among her numerous accomplishments, she became the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company's first female officer, retiring in 1972 as Associate Medical Director. Relocating to Phoenix, Arizona, she became Director and pediatrician for the Child Evaluation Center, retaining her medical license up to the time of her death. Always generous with her medical skills, in 1942 Dr. Tenbrinck served as pediatrician on an expedition to Portugal to rescue European children. She devoted vacations to working at the Albert Schweitzer Hospital, Lambarene, Gabon; Hospital Amazonico A. Schweitzer, Pucallpa, Peru; U.S. Public Health Service, Whiteriver, Arizona (Apache Reservation); South Phoenix Community Center; and Spafford Children's Center, East Jerusalem. Dr. Tenbrinck lectured at international pediatric conferences and published over 22 medical papers for journals including Arizona Medicine, Journal of the American Medical Association and New York State Journal of Medicine on subjects ranging from allergy, nutrition, fetal alcohol syndrome, and statistical research to medical problems encountered at locations where she volunteered. Her many awards included the Esther Pohl Lovejoy Award for medical service abroad (1972) and the Medalie Award for distinguished alumna, Barnard College (1982). She held life memberships in the American Academy of Pediatrics, American Medical Women's Association, and International Health Society, and was Assistant Editor of the Journal of the American Medical Women's Association. Daughters Jean Daubenas and Elizabeth Dawsari, along with grandson Jamil Dawsari, son-inlaw Joseph Daubenas, and granddaughter-in-law Juliet Dawsari profoundly miss her and Eduard J. A. Tenbrinck, her husband of 65 years and our father/grandfather, who passed away October 8, 1999.
      