
        ELIAS-Irving Samuel. Cherished and beloved husband of Charlotte, devoted loving father of Gale (Ken), Shari (Mitchell) and Sam; adored grandfather of Colby, Harry, Samara, Chloe and Brant; passed on Sunday, February 11, 2001. His kindness, inner beauty, wisdom, sense of humor and strength were an inspiration to all who knew him. It is with deepest sorrow that we mourn him. He will be in our hearts forever. Funeral service Wednesday, February 14, 11:45 at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave.
        ELIAS-Irving S. The Sephardic Temple, Congregation Emeth VeShalom of Cedarhurst, NY and the Sisterhood of the Sephardic Temple, record with deep regret the passing of Irving S. Elias, Vice President of the Congregation. A Founder of the Congregation, he ably and loyally served in establishing the Sephardic Temple as an exemplary synagogue serving the needs of the Sephardic Community. A very proud Jew, his philanthropic involvement reached every corner of our community. Scion of the distinguished family of the late Sam Elias, he walked in his father's footsteps in the building of Sephardic Judaism in America. Warmest condolences to his wife Charlotte, children Gale Sitomer, Shari Cherne and Sam I. Elias, sister Lillian Handwerger and brother Jack Elias. Funeral services on Wednesday February 14th at 11:45 at Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76th Street, NYC. Shiva through Monday evening at Cherne residence, 19 Melby Lane, Roslyn, NY. May the family be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Arnold B. Marans Hazzan David Abikzer Isaac J. Russo, Chairman of the Board Joseph Camhi, President Estelle Ezratty, Sisterhood President
        ELIAS-Irving S. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Irving S. Elias. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Charlotte, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary
        ELIAS-Irving. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Iggy. He was a special man and will be missed by everyone. Rest in peace! Condolences to Charlotte and the children. Irene and Murray
        ELIAS-Irving. The Board of Directors of Gotham Bank of New York are deeply saddened and mourn the death of our fellow director, Irving Elias. We extend heartfelt sympathy to Mrs. Elias and her family.
        ELIAS-Irving. Dear Iggy, thank you for being my wonderful friend these past 52 years. It is comforting to know that you are with your two best buddies, Fred and Justin. Love always, Phyllis Pressman
        ELIAS-Irving. Dear Iggy, you fought valiantly, yet through it all your concern for others never ceased. May you now rest in peace. We shall miss you. Terry and Seymour
        ELIAS-Irving ''Iggy.'' Good-bye dear friend, we will miss you. Condolences to Charlotte and the entire family. Joan and Joe Lehman
        ELIAS-Irving S. A courageous man with a lovable gift of grace and warmth, we will miss you. Lee and Howard Kaliner
      