
        FISHER-Larry. The Simon Wiesenthal Center and its Board of Trustees extend their sincerest condolences to Kathleen and the entire Fisher family on the death of Larry. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and know of no further sorrow for a long time. Rabbi Marvin Hier, Dean and Founder Nelson Peltz, Co-Chairman, Rhonda Barad, Eastern Director
        FISHER-Larry. The members of the City Athletic Club mourn the death of our esteemed and extremely generous member, L. Fisher. His warmth, humor and wonderful spirit will be missed greatly. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his son, and fellow member, Arnold and the entire Fisher family. Michael M. Todres, President Albert Ades, First Vice President
        FISHER-Larry. Was an extraordinary friend to the Gantz family. His wise counsel sustained us. His judgement was impeccable. We will surely miss the company of our loyal friend and constant golfing companion. We grieve with his wonderful wife Kathleen and the Fisher family at this great loss. Manny and Pat
        FISHER-Larry. The Partners and staff of Podell Schwartz Schechter & Banfield mourn the loss of our revered client and friend, Larry Fisher. We extend our deepest sympathies to this great man's beloved family and his numerous friends and admirers. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
        FISHER-Larry. The Cohens, Roos's and Carmels, and many others at GVA Williams would like to extend our condolences to the generous and charitable Fisher family, upon the death of the dynamic and imaginative family member, Larry Fisher, who has contributed much to this city.
        FISHER-Larry. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chairman, the Directors and staff of the Police Athletic League, and most especially its 70,000 young members will never forget the kindness, generosity, and compassion of our longtime Director, Larry Fisher. He was a loving friend of N.Y. City Children.
        FISHER-Larry. The officers and members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member, Larry Fisher. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Kathleen and to other members of his family. Samuel G. Weinberg, President
        FISHER-Larry. The Partners, Of Counsel And Associates Of Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP mourn the loss of Larry Fisher. A giant has fallen. We were ennobled by his presence and the opportunity to learn at the knee of the master.
        FISHER-Larry. We will miss your spirit, enthusiasm for life, friendship and love. You will forever be in our hearts. Gwen and Lester Fisher Casey, Kyle, Craig, Brian and Cheryl
      