
        FISHER-Larry. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Larry Fisher, a dear friend who was greatly admired for his extraordinary generosity. A dynamic real estate magnate and beloved philanthropist, he left a legacy that will be felt for generations to come. Mr. Fisher shared his family's deep commitment to Jewish causes. He will always be remembered for his dedication to Israel and to endangered Jewish communities around the world. Through his compassion and philanthropic leadership, he helped sustain UJA-Federation's diverse network of health and human service agencies. His selfless dedicated serves as an inspiration to us all. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Kathleen; his son, Arnold; his grandchildren, Kenneth, Steven, and Karen; his great-grandchildren; and his entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        FISHER-Larry. The Intrepid Museum Foundation expresses its condolences to Mrs. Kathleen Fisher & the Fisher family. Larry Fisher was a Partner in Fisher Brothers and brother of the late Zachary Fisher, Founder and Chairman of the Intrepid Sea Air Space Museum. He was a generous philanthropist, supporting especially the men and women of law enforcement and their families. He was a business leader who with his brothers, Martin and Zachary, constructed some of the most important buildings in the New York City skyline. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be sent to the Police Athletic League, 341/2 East 12th Street, New York, NY 10003. Intrepid Museum Foundation M. Anthony Fisher, Chairman Executive Committee: Denis Bovin, Max Chapman, Howard Lutnick, Kent Karosen, Martin Steele, Bill White and the Board of Trustees of the Intrepid
        FISHER-Larry. We express our condolences to the Fisher family on the loss of their Patriarch, Larry Fisher. Larry was a business leader who, with his late brothers Martin and Zachary, built Fisher Brothers, one of New York's leading real estate firms. His brother Zachary founded the Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Foundation. Larry supported many other charitable and cultural institutions as well. He will be missed by all who were fortunate enough to be acquainted with him. Our condolences are extended to the entir Fisher Family. Michael Stern, Chief Operating Officer and the Board of Trustees of the Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Disease Research Foundation
        FISHER-Larry. Bill White expresses his deepest sympathy to the family of Larry Fisher, especially Kathleen, Virginia Ross and Karen Misisco, and the Fisher Brothers: Arnold, Richard, Tony, Kenneth, and Steven Fisher. Like his brothers Martin and Zachary, Larry was an outstanding business leader and a caring and committed philanthropist, and a personal inspiration to me. I will remember the important lessons he taught me and his ''Fisher humor.'' His loss is a loss to our City and to our nation, and he will be deeply missed by all who knew him well. Bill White
        FISHER-Larry. The Board of Directors of New York's Finest Foundation wishes to express its deep sorrow to the family and friends on the passing of its esteemed colleague and Board member whose generosity, counsel, wisdom and good humor will be sorely missed. He and his late brother, Zachary, set the standard in supporting the New York law enforcement community through this Foundation as well as many other worthwhile causes for which we are eternally grateful. Hon. Rodney L. Ettman Chairman of the Board
        FISHER-Larry. The Real Estate Board of New York mourns the passing of our colleague, friend and former Governor, Larry Fisher, a leading force in shaping Manhattan's postwar skyline and a devoted champion of causes that benefited our city's children. His vision and generosity made New York greater. Our condolences to the Fisher family. Bernard H. Mendik, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        FISHER-Larry. Fisher Brothers mourns the passing of our Senior Partner, Larry Fisher, who led our firm with dignity and vision for 25 years after the passing of our founder, Martin Fisher. Martin, Larry and Zachary Fisher were the original Fisher Brothers: this is the passing of an era. He was deeply loved, and will be forever missed. Fisher Brothers
        FISHER-Larry. The last of the three founding brothers of Fisher Brothers. Larry, along with his brothers and their families, built one of the most important real estate firms in the United States. His vision and integrity won him the respect of the real estate industry. He will be truly missed. Sheldon H. Solow Solow Building Company
        FISHER-Larry. The Board of Trustees, clergy and congregation of Temple Israel of the City of New York mourn the death of our dear friend and benefactor. We express our sincere condolences to his loved ones. We cherish his family's long-standing connection with our congregation. Martin Cohen, President Judith S. Lewis, Senior Rabbi
        FISHER-Larry. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar, Larry Fisher, on February 4th. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        FISHER-Larry. Business leader and philanthropist. Brother of the late Zachary Fisher, founder of the Fisher House Foundation. A master builder and a lifelong supporter of law enforcement and many other charities. Our condolences to his wife Kathleen and to the entire Fisher family. The Board of Trustees of the Fisher House Foundation
        FISHER-Larry. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Larry Fisher, a generous supporter of The League. We extend our condolences to his son, Arnold, his sister, Ginny Ross, and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        FISHER-Larry. Larry was a great New Yorker and a giant in his industry. A true friend and a man of honor, Larry's handshake was his bond. With his passing, an era in our city comes to a close. We wish our deepest condolences to the entire Fisher family. Howard, Richard and Steven Rubenstein
        FISHER-Larry. We will not forget the many lessons that you taught us which will be passed to your great grandchildren and their children. We will miss you grandpa. Kenneth and wife Tammy Steven and wife Elissa Karen and husband Thomas
        FISHER-Larry. New York-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Medical College of Cornell University note with sadness the passing of Larry Fisher, our long-time friend and generous benefactor. Our condolences go to his family, and to his many, many friends.
        FISHER-Larry. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Larry Fisher, and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary
        FISHER-Larry. You died young; and you took with you the dazzle of an unforgettable era of which I was proud to be a part. You'll be forever missed. Ida Carinci
        FISHER-Larry. The City Athletic Club announces with profound sorrow the death of our esteemed member, Larry Fisher. Michael Todres, President
      