
        APPEL-Gloria W. Suddenly on January 31. Remembered with love and joy by her children: Carley Broder, Michael Broder and Rita Rubin, Charles Broder and Celeste Hoppey-Broder, and Betsy Broder and David Wentworth. Proud grandmother of Elexa, Ethan, Hannah and Aliza Broder and Ariel and Caroline Wentworth. Widow of Ed Appel, she was devoted to Eddie's children: Marianne Berson, Michaele and Thad Keyes, and Diane and John McCann; their children Deborah Parnes, Brad Berson, Rachel and Gabe Keyes, and Kevin and Ian McCann. President of the Louis and Harold Price Foundation and the Price Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies, which she served for over 20 years, a trustee of Babson College and Medical Development for Israel and advisor to Ewing and Marion Kauffman Foundation. Gloria also leaves countless cherished and loyal friends. Services Sunday, 1:15 Temple Shaaray Tefila, 79th and 2nd. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Price-Babson Fellows Program at Babson College or Medical Development for Israel.
        APPEL-Gloria W. We deeply mourn the loss of Gloria W. Appel, dear friend and member of the Board of Overseers for NYU Stern School of Business, who died unexpectedly on January 31st. Mrs. Appel was a tireless supporter of the Stern School and its programs, particularly The Berkeley Center for Entrepreneurial Studies. Mrs. Appel was President of the Price Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies. The Price Institute funds a wide variety of instructional programs at leading business schools, including Stern, where a generous gift established the Center for Entrepreneurial Studies. Mrs. Appel and the Price Institute were also instrumental in establishing the Harold Price Professorship at Stern. Mrs. Appel, a 1946 graduate of Bryn Mawr College, had served on the Stern School's Board of Overseers since 1989. In addition, she was a member of the Capitol Board Trustees of Babson College and served on the Board of Advisors of the Anderson Graduate School of Management at UCLA, the Sol C. Snider Entrepreneurial Center at the Wharton School, and the Lester Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation at the University of California at Berkeley. Mrs. Appel was active in numerous charitable organizations that promote health, education and family welfare. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. George Daly, Dean William R. Berkley, Chairman Stern School Board of Overseers
        APPEL-Gloria W. The members, trustees, directors, officers and employees of the Louis and Harold Price Foundation and The Price Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies mourn the passing of the beloved President of both Organizations, Gloria Appel. She played a major role for more than 20 years in the development of entrepreneurial education throughout the United States. Her dedication, kindness, spirit, intelligence and integrity will be remembered and missed by everyone who knew her. We express our deep condolences to all of the members of the family.
        APPEL-Gloria W. The Board of Directors and Staff of F.E.G.S. are saddened by the death of Gloria W. Appel. As President of the Louis and Harold Price Foundation, her kindness and generosity enriched the lives of many. The Foundation's Youth Violence Prevention Training Institute at F.E.G.S. will be a testament to her compassion and dedication. We express our deepest condolences to her children and their families. Joseph Stein, Jr., President, F.E.G.S. Alfred P. Miller, C.E.O., F.E.G.S.
        APPEL-Gloria. On behalf of the Vilna Project Inc., we wish to express our sorrow at the sudden passing of Gloria Appel. We will always cherish her faith in our project and her support as president of the Louis & Harold Price Foundation. She will be missed greatly by all who knew her. We extend our heart felt condolences to her family and friends. Mira Jedwabnik Van Doren, Executive Producer
        APPEL-Gloria. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Gloria Appel. Gloria, wife of the late Edwin Appel, former president, had been a member since 1968. On behalf of our members we express deepest condolences to her family. Bernard Steinweg, President Leonard Golub, Secretary
      