
        ZOCK-Sara Margaret Kurr (private philanthropist), died in her Sea Girt, New Jersey home on January 31, 2001 after a very brief illness. She had celebrated her 97th birthday on January 19th. She was born in Bethel, Pennsylvania in 1904. She taught first to third grades in a one-room schoolhouse in Berks County, PA. After graduating from Teachers College at Columbia University, NY in 1928, she taught in the Pelham and Geneseo, NY school districts. After her marriage to Joseph A. Zock, an investment banker, she moved to New York City where she worked with her husband for many years. She became a permanent resident of Sea Girt, NJ in 1965. She and her husband were two of the oldest members of the New York Stock Exchange. She was an active member of the Sea Girt Women's Club. During her fifty plus years of marriage, she and her late husband were very private donors to a wide variety of charitable causes and community betterment projects. She and her husband traveled the world extensively, whenever possible by ocean liner. They enjoyed many round the world cruises. She became an accomplished artist in her 70's. She read her beloved Wall Street Journal every day until three weeks before her death. After Joseph A. Zock's death in 1986, she increased her private philanthropic activities. She was the driving force and principal, but anonymous, benefactor in establishing the Sea Girt Public Library in 1991. It was not until her 95th birthday in 1999 that she allowed the town to honor her generosity. She has quietly and anonymously assisted the Tulpehocken, PA area school districts in educating many deserving students and contributed to school improvement projects. She also privately helped many less fortunate individuals throughout Monmouth County, NJ. Through the charitable trusts and private foundations created by Mrs. Zock and her late husband, significant annual contributions have been made to many and varied charities, educational institutions and local government projects. Besides her husband, Joseph A. Zock, she is predeceased by her sister, Mary Kurr Roberge. She is survived by a nephew, Dr. James K. Roberge, Lexington, MA, a grand-niece, Dr. Ann Roberge Cheal and grand-nephew, James D. Roberge and five great-grand nephews. She is also survived by her longtime friend, advisor and confidant, John H. Rogicki of Holmdel, NJ. A memorial service will be held at 11:30AM on February 21, 2001 at O'Brien's Funeral Home, Route 35, Wall, New Jersey with a luncheon to follow at her favorite restaurant, The Old Mill Inn. An additional memorial service will be held in Bethel, PA on a date and time to be announced shortly. Mrs. Zock's three favorite public charities were: American Cancer Society (Monmouth County Chapter, 801 Broad St., Shrewsbury, NJ); the American Heart Association (New Jersey Chapter, 2550 US Route 1, N. Brunswick, NJ); and the Salvation Army (Asbury Park Chapter, 605 Asbury Ave., Asbury Park, NJ). Donations in her memory can be made to the local chapters listed above. O'Brien Funeral Home, Wall, New Jersey, for further information
      