
        CHARLES-L. Robert. On February 10, 2001, at age 72. Beloved husband of Barbara Charles. Loving father of Frederick Charles and grandfather of Ian Robert and Clara Mary Charles. Devoted son of Helena and the late Leon Cieciuch. Dear brother of Sr. Jorene Cieciuch, O.P., and Richard Cieciuch. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St, Tuesday, 7-9 PM, and Wednesday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Jean the Baptiste Church, Lexington Ave at 76th St, Thursday, 11 AM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, 6931 Arlington Rd, Bethesda, MD 20814.
        CHARLES-L. Robert. Playbill magazine mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague L. Robert Charles. Bob was an institution at Playbill and in the advertising community. His 30 years of dedication, leadership and friendship at Playbill served as a constant source of inspiration. A distinguished gentleman, Bob had a profound appreciation and passion for the arts. He made theater, opera and symphonic music an integral part of his rich life. His devoted friends at Playbill wish to extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Barbara, son Frederick, daughter-in-law Eileen, grandchildren Ian Robert and Clara Mary, mother Helena Cieciuch, brother Richard Cieciuch, and sister Sr. Jorene Cieciuch, O.P. For all of us who worked with him, Bob was a guiding light of integrity, humanity and professionalism.
        CHARLES-L. Robert. The sales and support staff of Playbill mourns the passing of its highly regarded National Sales Director, L. Robert Charles, a beloved friend, a respected colleague and a treasured institution at the magazine for 30 years. His passion for music and theater was only surpassed by his love of family, his wife Barbara, son Frederick, daughter-in-law Eileen and twin grandchildren, Ian Robert and Clara Mary. We express our heartfelt condolences to them. He will be truly missed.
        CHARLES-L. Robert. Arthur, Joan and Philip Birsh mourn the passing of a great gentleman, L. Robert Charles. For more than 30 years, he has been our associate and dear friend. We shall miss him.
      