
        SHELBY-Jerome. Died on February 21, 2001 at the age of 70 after a long bout with leukemia, which he endured with characteristic courage, grace and humor. A business man's lawyer, he earned his Bachelor's Degree from New York University in 1950 and graduated Cum Laude from Harvard Law School with an LL.B. degree in 1953. Immediately thereafter, he joined Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, where he became a protege of H. Lee White, a successful ship finance lawyer and shipping businessman. Mr. Shelby was a Partner of the Firm from 1963 through 1992. During his tenure as Partner, Mr. Shelby served as Cochairman of the Firm for more than nine years and was a member of Cadwalader's Management Committee for close to two decades. After stepping down as a Partner in 1992, he remained Counsel to the Firm. He is survived by his wife, Adrian, son P. Austin Shelby and daughter-in-law Heath Shelby of West Orange, NJ, daughter Dr. Karen Shelby Anderson and sonin-law Tim Anderson of Bedford, NH, granddaughters Meredith Shelby, Melissa Shelby, Emily Anderson and Shelby Anderson, a grandson Maxwell Anderson and brother Judge Stuart Shelby of Santa Monica, CA. A memorial service will be held on Friday, February 23, at 11:30AM at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Donations may be made in his memory to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021.
        SHELBY-Jerome. The Partners of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft mourn the passing of their beloved partner, Jerry Shelby, and extend sincere condolences to his family and friends. With Cadwalader since law school graduation in 1953, Mr. Shelby was a Partner of the Firm for over 30 years, a member of the Management Committee for close to two decades, Co-Chairman of the Firm for more than nine years, and, thereafter, Counsel to the Firm. Much admired, his bold spirit, devotion and leadership touched and changed our lives. We will miss Mr. Shelby's friendship, loyalty and wisdom.
        SHELBY-Jerome. We deeply mourn the passing yesterday of our friend and partner, Jerome Shelby, and offer deepest condolences to his wife Adrian, his children Austin and Karen and the other members of his family. Jerry was closely associated with and trusted by, our late father and ourselves. We will miss his intelligence, his humor and his sense of proportion and fairness. Kimball and Kendall Chen Co-Chairmen Energy Transportation Group, Inc.
        SHELBY-Jerome. A good friend: gracious, cheerful, brave, and forward-looking even in the throes of his difficult illness. Jerry was at your side when you needed him; his absence we will sorely miss particularly in the coming days. Deep sympathy to Adrian and family. Mr. & Mrs. Ran Hettena
        SHELBY-Jerome. The Board of Trustees of the Seamen's Church Institute of NY and NJ recognizes the contribution of Mr. Shelby to the Institute's Board, and the Maritime Industry and extends sincere condolences to his wife Adrian and his family.
      