
        BELFER-Ira M. January 31, 2001. Attorney-at-law, Manhattan, at age 89. Beloved husband of Jean Belfer, to whom he was married for 62 years; devoted father of Myron and Peter and adored grandfather of Russell and Philip, and father-in-law of Sandra Belfer. Loving brother of the late Geraldine, and uncle of Natalie. His love of the law provided sustenance and joy. A graduate of CCNY and Brooklyn Law School, his was a story of success from immigrant roots. He valued and lived the ethic of hard work. He maintained his law practice into his 89th year-a practice of over 65 years. He was known as a lawyer's lawyer for his expertise in negotiation. His diverse practice included movie producers, fashion designers, real estate interests, corporate clients and families. A great raconteur, his storytelling captivated friends and acquaintances. His philanthropy supported the establishment of the Peter Belfer Laboratory at the Johns Hopkins University Medical School and Hospital in honor of Peter, his son, an attorney with the SEC, who died at 25 from congenital heart disease. He was a Trustee of the Brooklyn Law School and President of the Alumni Association. He was Trustee and President of the Congregation of Temple Israel of the City of New York. He founded and led the North Shore Arts Center. Service will be held at Temple Israel of the City of New York, 112 East 75 St., Friday, February 2, 2001 at 11:00 AM. Memorial contributions may be made to the Peter Belfer Laboratory, Department of Cardiology, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD.
        BELFER-Ira. Your wisdom, strength, guidance, charm, friendship and wonderful stories. I will miss them and you forever. My love and sympathy to your loving, devoted wife, Jean; son and daughter-in-law, Myron and Sandy, and grandsons, Russell and Phillip. Eileen Lipson
        BELFER-Ira M. The Brooklyn Law School community mourns the loss of Ira M. Belfer, a distinguished graduate, steadfast member of the Law School's Board of Trustees, generous benefactor and beloved friend. Ira graduated from Brooklyn Law School in 1933. While studying for his law degree, Mr. Belfer simultaneously completed an undergraduate degree at City College, taught English as a second language to new immigrants, and worked in a clothing store. In 1939, he established the firm of Belfer & Kaminsky, where he continued to practice until his death. A staunch patron of the Law School, he was one of the founders of its Alumni Association. For more than half a century, a succession of Brooklyn Law School deans, faculty members, and students have benefitted from his philanthropy and wise counsel. Although his presence will be missed, his legacy will be long enduring. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Jean, his son, Dr. Myron L. Belfer, his grandchildren, and the entire Belfer family. Paul Windels, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Trustees Joan G. Wexler, Dean
        BELFER-Ira. Past President and Counsel of Temple Israel of the City of New York. Beloved and respected friend. Our deepest condolences to his family. His memory will be an abiding blessing for all whose lives he touched and our ever grateful congregation. Martin Cohen, President Judith S. Lewis, Senior Rabbi
        BELFER-Ira M. Dear friend, counselor, and brother-in-law for over 60 years. A man of high intellect, dignity and professionalism who we will miss greatly. Our heartfelt condolences to Jean, Myron, Sandy, Russell and Philip. Jack and Marjorie Schleifer
      