
        BEAME-Abraham D. The Board, staff and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City sadly acknowledge the passing of Abraham D. Beame, former Mayor of New York City. Mr. Beame was a staunch supporter of people with cerebral palsy and related disabilities during his tenure as mayor. In the '70's Mayor Beame responded to UCP/NYC's request for transportation services for people with disabilities by creating a transportation system which provided accommodation to meet their special needs. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Leo Hausman, Chairman Martin C. Hausman, President Edward R. Matthews, Exec. Dir. UCP/NYC
        BEAME-Abraham D. The Board of Directors and Members of the Association for a Better New York mourn the loss of our dear friend and longtime active ABNY member. Until recently Mayor Beame was a constant presence at our monthly ABNY breakfasts. He will be remembered with great affection for his loyal service and dedication to New York City. Our deepest sympathies to his family. Lewis Rudin, Chairman Association for a Better New York
        BEAME-Abraham D. The Directors and Officers of The Berkshire Bank, who had the great privilege of serving with Mayor Beame on The Advisory Board of UMB Bank & Trust, Co, would like to honor his legacy of dedication and courage in the face of any situation. His wisdom, honesty, and guidance will always be missed. Moses Marx, Chairman Moses Krausz, President and CEO
        BEAME-Honorable Abraham D. Park East Synagogue mourns its devoted member, Mayor Abe Beame. Proud New Yorker who has rendered distinguished public service to our city. To his son, Bud and the entire family our deepest sympathy. Funeral services Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67th St, Tuesday, February 13, 11:45 AM. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        BEAME-Abraham D. Born in London almost 95 years ago. Abe Beame rose through the ranks until elected mayor of the greatest city in the world. At great personal sacrifice he made the tough decisions to save New York City. All citizens owe Mayor Beame a debt of gratitude. He was a giant of a man. We will miss our dear personal friend. Jackie and Stanley Friedman
        BEAME-Abraham D. The Rubenstein Family mourns the loss of one of New York's favorite sons, Mayor Abraham Beame. Honorable, loyal and an icon in our city, he was a great friend and will be sorely missed. We extend our deep sympathy to his family. Howard, Amy, Roni, Richard and Steven Rubenstein
        BEAME-Abraham D. We sadly bid farewell to our dear and cherished friend. We will always treasure the beautiful memories of the many special times we shared. May he rest in peace with his beloved Mary. Shelby and Bill Modell and the entire Modell family
        BEAME-Abraham D., Mayor. Our deepest sympathy to his son, our dear friend Bernard (Bud); grandchildren Andrew, Richard and Julia, and entire family. May you never know any more sorrow. Rabbi and Mrs. Chaim M. Stauber
      