
        CLARK-Richard C. Prominent NYC architect, died of cancer January 22, 2001. Devoted husband to Dolores. Beloved father of Elizabeth and Barbara. Cherished grandfather of Tyler and Allan. Born in 1928 and raised during the Depression in Hell's Kitchen, Richard ''Dick'' Clark was a proud son of NYC. He attended P.S. 51, Stuyvesant High School and Columbia University School of Architecture. His passion for life took him from winning the Silver Skates in the Speed Skating Competition at Madison Square Garden in 1957, to being a volunteer fireman in Croton-on-Hudson, to flying planes and collecting antique cars. His love of architecture led him on a 54 year career that took him from Battalion Drafting Instructor in the U.S. Army in the early 1950's, to Head of NY's World's Fair Examination Department in the 1960's, to President of Taylor Clark Architects, Inc. from 1979. In 2000, TCA merged with the prestigious firm, Swanke Hayden Connell Architects, to create Swanke Hayden Connell Architects/Taylor Clark Healthcare Group, where Dick served as a principal until his death. Richard was a published and internationally recognized expert in the planning and design of medical facilities and academic medical campuses. Serving over 100 clients during his extensive career, he directed numerous major projects including the NY Presbyterian Hospital (expansion over the FDR Drive was done in association with HOK), the NY Hospital Medical Center of Queens, the Brooklyn Hospital Center, Long Island College Hospital, and North Shore University Hospital, to name a few. He was honored by the NY Hospital Medical Center of Queens by receiving their Pacesetter Award in 1998 at a gala event. Richard was also an active and enthusiastic participant on many boards and committees including the Cardinal's Committee of the Laity, the American Institute of Architects, Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee of American College of Radiology, American Association for Hospital Planning, Society of Architectural Historians, and the NY Association for Ambulatory Care. He also served as a member of the board for Calvary Hospital, Bronx, NY and Lincoln Hall, Lincolndale, NY. Richard died peacefully at his home in NYC. He will be sorely missed by a great number of people. There will be a memorial service on Friday, February 16th at the Church of the Transfiguration (1 East 29th St., NYC) at 11AM. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be made in his name to Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, P.O. Box 1275, York Ave., NY, NY 10021.
      