
        ELIAS-Irving S. In memory of our esteemed colleague, Honorary President, Irving S. Elias, who devoted his life to generously supporting the Sephardic Home for the Aged. A proud Sephardic philanthropist who was a charter member of the Home, as were his parents, Sam and Sophie Elias. We extend sincere condolences to his wife, Charlotte; children, Gale Sitomer, Shari Cherne, Sam I. Elias and grandchildren; and brother Jack Elias and sister Lillian Handwerger. Officers and Board of Directors of the Sephardic Home and LASHA Robert A. Cohen, President Ralph J. Kamhi, Chairman of the Board Michael New, Exec. Dir. Marion Crespi, Pres. LASHA Reggie Goldberg, Chairman of the Board LASHA
        ELIAS - Irving. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Irving Elias on Sunday, February 11, 2001. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Wednesday, February 14th, 2001 at 11:45 A.M. at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street at Amsterdam Avenue. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        ELIAS-Irving. Dear Iggy, you have left us with wonderful memories of your caring, thoughtfulness, humor, and love. We shall always miss you. Helen, Harold, Ann-Louise, Dorian, Jo-Ann, Josh, Jill, and Jay
        ELIAS-Irving. In loving memory of Irving Elias. Thank you for all the love and joy that you have spread in our lives. We will miss you dearly but you live on through your wonderful family. With deepest sorrow. Lori Shabtai and family
        ELIAS - Irving. Our heartfelt thoughts are with our dear friends Gale and Ken and their family Charlotte, Shari and Sam on the passing of their very special Iggy. He will truly be missed. Denise and Larry Wohl
        ELIAS-Irving. Dear Iggy, goodbye dear neighbor and friend. May you now rest in peace. We shall miss you. Condolences to Charlotte and the family. Laura and Arthur Ratner
        ELIAS-Irving S. Dear Iggy, we are left with a terrible void and a beautiful memory of a dear, wonderful friend. Our condolences to Charlotte and family. Love, Bernie and Carol Kossar
        ELIAS-Irving. Dear Iggy, you fought valiantly, yet through it all your concern for others never ceased. May you now rest in peace. We shall miss you. Terry and Seymour
      