
        MEYER-Eva H. Beloved wife of Manfred. Loving mother of David and Paulette. Grandmother of Rachel and sister of Benjamin Hoffman of Tel Aviv. Service Thursday, 9:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. May her memory be a blessing.
        MEYER-Eva H. The American Friends of BIU in Israel and the University mourn the passing of Eva H. Meyer who with beloved husband Manfred were singular patrons of several programs at the university including the publication of the impressive biography of her father the late Rabbi Jacob Hoffman z'l with several important chapters on the reglious Zionist movement in Germany during the beginning of the last century, the Meyer Outreach Program and the Annual Lecture at the Jewish Center Synagogue here in Manhattan. To her beloved husband Manfred, their son David, her brother Benjamin in Israel and the entire family, we extend sincerest condolences. Our hope is they will derive solace from inspiring memories. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman Chancellor, Bar-Ilan University Professor Moshe Kaveh President, Bar-Ilan University Melvin Stein Pres., American Board of Trustees
        MEYER-Eva. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a dear, longtime, friend and supporter, an admired leader of the Jewish community and beloved wife of Manfred H. Meyer. Following the tradition of her revered father, she played a significant role in strengthening the University and was devoted to higher education in Israel as well. YU Guardians, she and her husband established the Eva and Manfred Meyer Course in Modern Jewish Problems at our Stern College for Women. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Manfred Meyer; son, David (and Paulette) Meyer; brother, Benjamin Hoffman of Tel Aviv; and granddaughter, Rachel. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Robert M. Beren, Chairman Board of Trustees Yeshiva University
        MEYER-Eva H. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the wife of our distinguished member of the Board of Trustees, Manfred Meyer, and beloved mother of our member David N. Meyer. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood
      