
        NETTER - Kimberly Lawrence. Beloved wife of Donald T. Netter, and devoted mother of her labradors Paloma (10), De Neiges (8), Cricket (5) and Scout (six months), and her horse, Justice, passed away Friday evening, February 2, 2001, at the age of 44, after a courageous 11 year battle with breast cancer. She was the beloved granddaughter of the late Eleanor Humphrey, the adored daughter of Edith and Richard Lawrence, brother Craig, sister Wendy Probert and loving aunt of Lars (8) and Lily (2). Kimberly graduated from Mamaroneck High School and Berkley College, was raised in Rye Brook, NY, and was a resident of Greenwich, CT, for the past 20 years. Prior to her marriage in 1989, she was a valued long-term associate of Geneve Corporaton, a Stamford, CT, diversified investment concern. Despite her protracted battle with cancer, she always exhibited grace, humor, vigor and compassion. As a woman with a great zest for life, she was an enthusiastic event rider, trainer of field dogs and excelled in a wide array of outdoor and athletic activities. As a gifted photographer with an adventuresome spirit, she was a frequent world traveler. As a Partner in the American Ballet Theatre, she expressed a great passion for the arts. Possessing a generous heart, she will be deeply missed by children of all ages and the many people she uniquely connected with. In lieu of flowers, donations will be gratefully accepted by Pegasus Therapeutic Riding of Greenwich, Adopt - a - Dog of Greenwich, NABCO, the Patient Advocate Foundation and the Rockefeller University's Cancer Research programs. A celebration of Kim's joyous and extraordinary life will be held at the First Church of Round Hill Road (464 Round Hill Road, at the corner of John Street), in Greenwich, CT, on Wednesday, February 7, at 10 AM.
        NETTER-Kimberly Lawrence. All of her dear friends at Geneve Corporation's group of companies mourn the tragic loss of Kim Netter. Kim's unique optimism and courage engulfed our hearts every day as she withstood, with never a complaint, her valiant struggle with cancer; and, although her shining smile will forever be missed, we are all happier and better people in having been touched by her inner beauty and calm. Our deepest condolences to Kim's husband and our partner, Donald Netter, and to the Lawrence and Netter families.
      