
        THOMAS-Martha Paula Ruppaner known as Poppi. Died suddenly on February 18, 2001 at her vacation home at Tryall, Jamaica. She was 85. The widow of Joseph A. Thomas, she was the beloved stepmother of Michael M. Thomas of Brooklyn, N.Y. and Jeffrey F. Thomas of San Francisco, CA. She is survived by her stepsons and their families, by her cousin, Dr. Pedrin Tondury of Switzerland and by numerous loving friends. Among the latter must be counted the denizens of the Animal Kingdom, whose interests she tirelessly served as a longtime Board member of the Wildlife Conservation Society (formerly the New York Zoological Society) and the Animal Medical Center (of which she was Board Chair Emerita and recipient of its ''Top Dog'' and Brook Astor awards). Interment will be private. Memorial services will be scheduled in Old Brookville, L.I. and Jamaica at later dates. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to the Wildlife Conservation Society or the Animal Medical Center.
        THOMAS-Martha ''Poppi'' The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and generous benefactor. After serving as an Advisor and Trustee, Poppi became an Honorary Trustee in 1997. She served as a devoted member of several key committees including the Women's Committee and the Wildlife Health and Sciences Committee. Poppi will be remembered for her spirited leadership, enthusiasm, thoughtfulness and wisdom in strenthening WCS's role in preserving wildlife and wild places around the world. Our deepest sympathies to her family. David T. Schiff, Chairman James M. Large, Jr., Acting President
        THOMAS-Martha (Poppi). It is with deep sorrow that the Board of Trustees and staff of The Animal Medical Center mark the passing of our devoted Chairman Emerita, Mrs. Joseph A. (Poppi) Thomas. Mrs. Thomas' passionate belief in the important role of animals in our lives led to her tireless work for 44 years as an active member of our board, serving for 12 years as Chairman. Her generosity of spirit, her integrity and her unwavering commitment to improving the care of animals served as an inspiration to us all. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family and all those who were touched by her joy of living and the warmth of her friendship.
      