
        AMES-George J. Financier and philanthropist, died on Friday, February 2, 2001, at his home in Rye, NY. He was 83 years old. Mr. Ames was a Limited Managing Director of Lazard Freres and Company, LLC. Surviving are his wife Bess R. Ames of Rye, NY, four daughters, Ruth A. Solie of Northampton, MA, Joan A. Berkowitz of Guilford, CT, Margery E. Ames of NYC, and Dorothy A. Cummings of Skillman, NJ, his step-children Paula S. Butler and Charles David Sammons of Rye, NY, a sister Dorothy Demers of Austin, TX, and seven grandchildren, John Solie, Jonathan and Rachel Berkowitz, and Michael, Kristin, Dillon and Quinlan Cummings. He was predeceased by his first wife Marion Patterson Ames and his brother Raymond Ames. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held at the Church of the Resurrection, Rye, NY, on Wednesday, February 7, at 10 AM. The family will receive friends at the Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Boston Post Rd., Rye, NY, on Monday, February 5, from 7-9 PM, Tuesday, February 6, from 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Burial will be at the Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Valhalla, NY. In lieu of flowers, the family requests memorial contributions be sent to the Hartley House with which he was associated since childhood; Hartley House, 413 W. 46th St., NYC 10036.
        AMES-George J. The Co-Sponsors, Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Staff, Behavioral Health Services and St. Vincent's Westchester Auxiliary Board of St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers mourn the death of George J. Ames. St. Vincent's Westchester benefited immeasurably from his vision, wisdom and leadership during his two tenures as its Board Chair and his twenty-five years of service on the St. Vincent's Westchester Advisory Board. He received the first ''St. Vincent's Westchester Founders Award'' in 1997 in recognition of his commitment to the vision of the Sisters of Charity, St. Vincent's founders. Mr. Ames also provided valuable healthcare leadership during his service on the Boards of St. Vincent's Manhattan and New York Medical College. We extend our deep sympathy and prayers to his family upon the loss of this exceptional man. Most Reverand Joseph Sullivan Co-Chair, Board of Directors Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers Elizabeth Vermaelen, S.C., Co-Chair Board of Directors Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers David J. Campbell, President and Chief Executive Officer Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers Brian L. Fitzsimmons, Ph.D President, Behavioral Health Services Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers
        AMES-George J. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the passing of our beloved friend, George Ames, a cherished member of the Rockefeller University family for more than 20 years. His commitment to biomedical research and particularly to the University's community of young scientists was inspiring. Among many important initiatives he helped to bring to fruition at the University, we will especially remember his helpful advice and encouragement of our efforts to establish the Center for the Study of Physics and Biology in 1994. He will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Bess, to his children and stepchildren, and to the entire Ames family. Arnold J. Levine, President Richard B. Fisher, Chairman Torsten N. Wiesel, President Emeritus Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman Emeritus and R.U. Council Chairman David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman
        AMES-George. Columbia College and its Board of Visitors mourn the loss of George Ames, one of Columbia's great alumni leaders. Since his graduation as a member of The Class of 1937, Mr. Ames has been a loyal and generous alumnus to Alma Mater. His wisdom, leadership and vision, have served Columbia well, particularly during his many years as Chairman of The Board of Visitors. Columbia College is much the better today for his many efforts over the years on its behalf. The faculty, staff, and students of the College, along with the current members of the Board of Visitors, send their deepest sympathy to his wife, Bess, and to all his family. Austin E. Quigley, Dean of Columbia College Richard Witten, Chairman, Columbia College Board of Visitors
        AMES-George. The Alumni Association of Columbia College is deeply saddened by the loss of George J. Ames, a distinguished member of the Class of 1937, former Chairman of the Board of Visitors and devoted supporter of the College. A true gentleman, his wisdom and counsel will be missed by all who knew him at Columbia. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Columbia College Alumni Association
        AMES-George J. The Fordham Law School community mourns the passing of George Ames, Class of 1942. We record our appreciation for his life, generosity and many kindnesses to our School. His was a life of service to many, which gave living expression to the ideals of the School. John D. Feerick, Dean
      