
        GREENFIELD-William, D.D.S. On February 1, 2001. Cherished husband of Elyse nee Bloom. Loving father of Linda Plotnick of Merrick N.Y. and David Greenfield, M.D. of Boca Raton, FL. Devoted fatherin-law of Nina and Steven. Adoring grandfather of Jason and Joshua. A leader in dental anesthesiology and pain control, he served for 21 years as Associate Dean for Hospital Extramural and International Affairs at the NYU College of Dentistry, where his wisdom, creativity and brilliance advanced the programs of the College on a global level. He was a former President of the New York Society of Dental Anesthesiology, New York Society of Acupuncture, Association of Military Surgeons (N.Y. Chapter), and of virtually every organization he joined. At the time of his death, he was President of the American College of Acupuncture. A legendary storyteller, his humor, gentleness, sweetness and charm captivated everyone he met. He was perfect and everyone loved him. He will be with us always in our hearts. Services Sunday, February 4th, 1PM, United Hebrew Community of New York, 201 E Broadway NY (212-674-3580). In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the NYU College of Dentistry.
        GREENFIELD - William. D.D.S. The faculty, students, staff and alumni of the New York University College of Dentistry express profound sadness on the passing of our beloved colleague, alumnus, and friend, Dr. William Greenfield, who was Professor Emeritus of Surgical Sciences and Clinical Professor of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery. Dr. Greenfield was deeply devoted to his family, profession, and alma mater. A graduate of the College of Dentistry's Class of 1952, he joined the NYUCD faculty in 1976, serving over the years with brilliance and distinction as an educator, scholar, and administrator, including his service as Associate Dean for Hospital, Extramural and International Affairs, Director of the Advanced Education Program in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, and Director of the Wachman Institute for Human Environmental Life Protection. Dr. Greenfield's leadership and dedication to the areas of dental anesthesiology and pain control, as well as his innovativeness in the development and expansion of the International Programs of NYU College of Dentistry, are particularly commendable and won him the admiration and friendship of colleagues around the world. A loyal and enthusiastic advocate for the profession, he engendered people's trust and encouraged those from many walks of life to support the growth and development of our college. His wisdom, humor, modesty, and gentle demeanor will be sorely missed by all those whose lives he touched. To his wife Elyse Bloom Greenfield, his son David, his daughter Linda, and his entire family, we offer heartfelt condolences and join in your sorrow.
        GREENFIELD-William, DDS. We mourn the sudden loss of our dear friend and colleague, Bill. For over two decades he has worked tirelessly towards the advancement of the practice of acupuncture in the state of New York and our nation. Mindful of quality care for pain control he was instrumental in helping to raise the standard of training for physicians and dentists while serving on the Rockefeller Commission on Acupuncture. Bill was a founding member and major catalyst for the establishment of the NY Society of Acupuncutre for Physicians and Dentists and The American College of Acupuncture. We are all indebted to his dedication, devotion and leadership. To Elyse, his wife and children Linda and David, our heartfelt condolences. Board of Trustees American College of Acupuncture Sung Liao, MD Mathew Lee, MD Peter Teng, DDS Alfred Peng, MD
        GREENFIELD-William DDS. An untimely passing of a dedicated Dentist who was concerned about the provision of dental care for the disabled in both the hospital and outpatient settings. As Associate Dean, NYU School of Dentistry, he worked with David Kriser to ensure that dentists who suffered a stroke received appropriate rehabilitation and vocational retraining. Another major interest of his was in pain control. Elyse, we will sorely miss Bill after 30 years of professional association. Mathew Lee, MD, FACP Howard A. Rusk, Professor Chairman & Medical Director Rusk Institute-NYU
      