
        SHAY-Dr. Robert P., Professor Emeritus at Columbia University, and a leading scholar of the economics of consumer finance, died on January 21 in Ellsworth, Maine. He was 78. The cause was cardiac arrest after a 12 year battle with Parkinson's disease. Dr. Shay's work on the impact of interest rate regulation on consumer demand and credit availability contributed to the easing of interest rate regulation in the United States. Born in Belmont, Mass on March 27, 1922, he earned his Bachelor of Science, Master's and Doctorate in Economics at the University of Virginia, finishing in 1951. He joined the faculty at the University of Maine in 1950, where he became a full professor and head of the departments of Economics and Sociology in 1957, and founded the School of Business in 1958. In 1959, Dr. Shay joined the staff of the National Bureau of Economic Research, and was appointed Professor of Banking and Finance at the Columbia University Graduate School of Business in 1964, where he was an admired teacher and active faculty member until his retirement in 1989. Dr. Shay was also very active in the communities in which he lived. During his tenure at the University of Maine he was elected Selectman in the Town of Orono. After moving to Scarsdale, N.Y. in 1959, he served on the School Board and numerous other town committees. In 1994 he was named recipient of the Scarsdale Bowl, jointly with his wife Esther, in recognition of their contribution to the civic life of Scarsdale. He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Esther Cunningham Shay, their three sons, Robert Shay, Jr. of Watertown, Mass, Warren of Skowhegan, Maine and Stephen Shay, of Sharon, Mass, grandchildren Elliott, Anthony, Keith, Laura, Rebecca, David and Rachel Shay, and his sister, Laura Hogan of Palm Beach, Florida. The funeral was held on Wednesday, January 24, in Blue Hill, Maine. The family asks that instead of flowers, contributions be made in Dr. Shay's name to the Parkinson's Disease Foundation, Inc. at Columbia University, 710 W. 168 Street, New York, N.Y. 10032-9982.
      