
        BELFER-Ira M. January 31, 2001. Attorney-at-law, Manhattan, at age 89. Beloved husband of Jean Belfer, to whom he was married for 62 years; devoted father of Myron and Peter and adored grandfather of Russell and Philip, and father-in-law of Sandra Belfer. Loving brother of the late Geraldine, and uncle of Natalie. His love of the law provided sustenance and joy. A graduate of CCNY and Brooklyn Law School, his was a story of success from immigrant roots. He valued and lived the ethic of hard work. He maintained his law practice into his 89th year-a practice of over 65 years. He was known as a lawyer's lawyer for his expertise in negotiation. His diverse practice included movie producers, fashion designers, real estate interests, corporate clients and families. A great raconteur, his storytelling captivated friends and acquaintances. His philanthropy supported the establishment of the Peter Belfer Laboratory at the Johns Hopkins University Medical School and Hospital in honor of Peter, his son, an attorney with the SEC, who died at 25 from congenital heart disease. He was a Trustee of the Brooklyn Law School and President of the Alumni Association. He was Trustee and President of the Congregation of Temple Israel of the City of New York. He founded and led the North Shore Arts Center. Memorial contributions may be made to the Peter Belfer Laboratory, Department of Cardiology, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD.
        BELFER-Ira M. A lifelong friend, our memory of him will endure henceforth as an abiding presence of love and strength. His achievments of excellence throughout his life in his many endeavors evoked our utmost respect and admiration. The gift of friendship for us was constant and a blessing in our lives all the years we knew him. Harold and Margaret Mintz
        BELFER-Ira M. Dear friend, counselor, and brother-in-law for over 60 years. A man of high intellect, dignity and professionalism who we will miss greatly. Our heartfelt condolences to Jean, Myron, Sandy, Russell and Philip. Jack and Marjorie Schleifer
      