
        SHELBY-Jerome. Died on February 21, 2001 at the age of 70 after a long bout with leukemia, which he endured with characteristic courage, grace and humor. A business man's lawyer, he earned his Bachelor's Degree from New York University in 1950 and graduated Cum Laude from Harvard Law School with an LL.B. degree in 1953. Immediately thereafter, he joined Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, where he became a protege of H. Lee White, a successful ship finance lawyer and shipping businessman. Mr. Shelby was a Partner of the Firm from 1963 through 1992. During his tenure as Partner, Mr. Shelby served as Cochairman of the Firm for more than nine years and was a member of Cadwalader's Management Committee for close to two decades. After stepping down as a Partner in 1992, he remained Counsel to the Firm. He is survived by his wife, Adrian, son P. Austin Shelby and daughter-in-law Heath Shelby of West Orange, NJ, daughter Dr. Karen Shelby Anderson and sonin-law Tim Anderson of Bedford, NH, granddaughters Meredith Shelby, Melissa Shelby, Emily Anderson and Shelby Anderson, a grandson Maxwell Anderson and brother Judge Stuart Shelby of Santa Monica, CA. A memorial service will be held on Friday, February 23, at 11:30AM at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Donations may be made in his memory to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021.
        SHELBY-Jerome. The Partners of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft mourn the passing of their beloved partner, Jerry Shelby, and extend sincere condolences to his family and friends. With Cadwalader since law school graduation in 1953, Mr. Shelby was a Partner of the Firm for over 30 years, a member of the Management Committee for close to two decades, Co-Chairman of the Firm for more than nine years, and, thereafter, Counsel to the Firm. Much admired, his bold spirit, devotion and leadership touched and changed our lives. We will miss Mr. Shelby's friendship, loyalty and wisdom.
        SHELBY-Jerome. The Officers and Directors deeply regret the death of Jerome Shelby, long a friend and trusted advisor to Henry and Erna Leir and to us. We offer our deep sympathies to Adrian, to Austin and Karen and the children. The Ridgefield and Leir Foundations
        SHELBY-Jerome. We have been fortunate to have Jerome Shelby as our good friend and wise advisor. Our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Adrian and to his family. Jacques Lennon President Continental Resources
        SHELBY-Jerome. The staff and Trustees of The Montclair Art Museum acknowledge with sorrow the passing of the beloved husband of our former President Adrian A. Shelby. We extend our condolences to the entire family.
        SHELBY-Jerome. The Managing Directors and staff of American Express TBS offer our condolences to Adrian and the family for the loss of Jerome Shelby. Jerry was both our friend and colleague.
      