
        HELLER-Anne Cohen. Died Saturday, February 24, 2001, at home in Manhattan. She was 81. A physician known professionaly as Dr. Anne C. Carter, she was a lifelong resident of the city and Bedford, NY, and was predeceased by her husband, William B. Heller. She is survived by her children, James A. and Susan K. Heller of New York City, a daughter-in-law, Pamela, and two grandchildren, William B. II and Susan C. Heller. Calling hours will be from 6-8 PM, Tuesday, February 27, at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, Madison Ave. at 81st St. A memorial service will be held at the Frank E. Campbell Chapel at 11:30 AM on Wednesday, February 28. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Dana Hall School, 45 Dana Road, Wellesley, MA 02481 or Wellesley College, 106 Central Street, Wellesley, MA 02481.
        HELLER-Dr. Anne C. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with sorrow the death of Anne Heller. Mrs. Heller was an active and generous member of our Camp Advisory Committee for many years. Through her work, children with little or no family support have had the chance to experience the joys of camp life. She was deeply committed to the welfare of families and children as a physician and volunteer. Her caring and her vision will always be appreciated. Her late husband Bill was a longstanding trustee who worked tirelessly for JBFCS. Both Bill and Anne will always be fondly remembered as members of the JBFCS family. Our condolences to Susan, James, Pamela and their children. Seymour R. Askin, Jr. Chairman of the Board Joseph S. Kaplan President Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive Vice President
        HELLER-Anne C. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of Ramapo Anchorage Camp mourn the passing of Anne C. Heller, widow of former Board Member and distinguished Past President William Heller and mother of cherished Board Member Susie Heller. Anne was a dear and compassionate friend and we are grateful for her steadfast dedication to improving the lives of needy children. A pioneer in women's health, her strength and leadership were inspirational. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Susie, James and their families. Joey Parnes, President Bernard Kosberg, Exec Director
        HELLER-Anne C. The Board and staff of The New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of their esteemed friend, Anne Heller. Along with her late husband, William, Anne was a thoughtful steward of the Garden for decades. Both were wonderful supporters of the Garden's volunteer program. We shall miss Anne's intelligence and participation. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Wilson Nolen, Chairman Gregory Long, President Thomas J. Hubbard, Chairman Emeritus
      