
        ROUSSO-David E. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn. Loving father of Eli and Judith, Sandra and Eli and Harilyn and Gene. Cherished grandfather of Suzanne, Linda, Evelyn, David, Terry-Ann, and Joseph. Devoted great-grandfather of Jessica, Jennifer, Charles, Nicole, Evan, Gabrielle, Kimberly and David. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island, at 1:30 P.M. Wednesday.
        ROUSSO-David E. The Sephardic Temple, Congregation Emeth VeShalom of Cedarhust, NY, and the Sisterhood of the Sephardic Temple, record with deep regret the tragic passing of David E. Rousso, Honorary Life Trustee and President of the Congregation, who served as President of the Congregation from 1971-1977. A Founder of the congregation, he served in every capacity and on almost every committee. His dedication to the Sephardic Temple and the Sephardic community was exemplary. A proud Sephardic Jew, his philanthropic involvement reached every corner of our community. He carried the proud name of the Rousso family to the four corners of the earth. A brother of Louis E. Rousso, he joined with his brothers and nephews in establishing the Rousso family as a foremost family within our community. We recall the memory of his late wife Evelyn Rousso, Past President of the Sisterhood of the Sephardic Temple. Warmest condolences to Eli and Judith Rousso, Sandra and Eli Izhakoff, Harilyn and Gene Brown. May the family be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Funeral services at Boulevard Chapel, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, New York, Wednesday, February 7 at 1:30PM. Rabbi Arnold B. Marans Hazzan David Abikzer Isaac J. Russo, Chairman of the Board Joseph Camhi, President Estelle Ezratty, Sisterhood President
        ROUSSO-David E. Yeshiva University and its Sephardic Council of Overseers mourn the passing of a cherished and revered friend and Council member. He and his late wife, Evelyn, were Sephardic Studies Fellows who established the Nissim Eliahu Rousso Memorial Ladino Collection for the Sephardic Reference Room in YU's Mendel Gottesman Library. The University honored him with the Sephardic Heritage Award at the first dinner supporting our Sephardic Studies Programs. We extend our heartfelt condolences to children, Eli (and Judith) Rousso, Sandra (and Eli) Izhakoff, and Marilyn (and Gene) Brown. Min Hashamayim Tenahamu. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren, Chairman YU Board of Trustees David Eshaghian, Chairman Sephardic Council of Overseers
        ROUSSO-David E. The American Friends of MISGAB LADACH HOSPITAL in Jerusalem expresses with sorrow the passing of our dear and devoted friend. His philanthropy extended to every facet of the endeavors of this foremost Hospital and Maternity Center. May his memory be cherished in our midst. Rabbi Arnold B. Marans, Chairman Mrs. Irma Lopes Cardozo, Vice-Chairman
      