
        LeROY-Warner. On February 22, 2001 at age 65. Entrepreneur, designer and noble friend. Beloved father of Bridget, Carolyn, Max and Jennifer. Cherished brother of Linda Janklow, Brian and Quentin Vidor. Devoted Grandpa to Georgia, Joelie and Bing. You will always be a star! Services Monday, February 26th at 10:30AM at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave at 65th St. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to Meals on Wheels, 355 Lexington Avenue, NY, NY 10017, or New York Presbyterian Hospital, Department of Medicine, 525 East 68th Street, New York, NY 10021.
        LeROY-Warner. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater grieve the untimely death of our wonderful friend, colleague and neighbor, Warner, whose kindness, generosity and regard for the theater we enjoyed. We send healing condolences to all his family, particularly to his beloved sister, Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman of our Board. Andrew Heiskell Joan Cullman Vice Chairmen John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Dir Bernard Gersten, Exec Producer
        LeROY-Warner. The Trustees and Staff of the American Museum of the Moving Image grieve the untimely death of our friend Warner LeRoy, who brought cinematic flair to everything he did. We offer condolences to his family, most especially to his devoted sister Linda LeRoy Janklow, a founding member of our Board. Rochelle Slovin, Director Herbert S. Schlosser, Chairman
        LeROY-Warner. The Board and staff of ArtsConnection are deeply saddened by the death of Warner LeRoy, a friend to ArtsConnection and the beloved brother of our Chairman, Linda LeRoy Janklow. Our heartfelt sympathies go out to Linda and her family on their loss. Marshall Sonenshine Vice Chairman Steven Tennen Executive Director
        LeROY - Warner. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Warner LeRoy. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
      