
        LEATON-Edward K. A resident of The Hermitage at Cedarfield, Richmond, VA., died February 23, 2001 after a long illness. He is survived by his wife of 34 years, Janet K. Leaton. Also surviving are five sons and their wives: Edward M. Leaton, M.D. and Barbara of Midlothian, VA; Robert A. and Valerie Leaton of Horseheads, NY; Thomas W. Leaton and Janet Janes of Vienna, VA; Richard K. and Karen Leaton of Louisville, KY; and James M. Leaton of Oak Ridge, NJ. Two sons, William G. Leaton and Kenneth H. Leaton predeceased their father. Surviving also are 11 grandchildren: E, Timothy, Christina and Jonathan; Robert, Kathleen and William; Kenneth and Andrew; and Cynthia, Benjamin and Allyssa. Ed was a graduate of Lehigh University '49, B.S. Mechanical Engineering, and Yale University: M.S. Industrial Administration. He is a member of The Tau Beta Pi Association, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and Omicron Delta Kappa Foundation. He was well known and respected in the life insurance and pension plan industry and was listed in ''Who's Who in the World'' and ''Who's Who in America'' for twenty years. During his career, he was President of the General Agents and Management Association International, and was elected to its ''Hall of Fame;'' was President of the National Association of Pension Consultants and Administrators; Vice President of The American Society of Pension Actuaries; President of the Life Manager's Association of Greater New York; President of the New England Life General Agents Association; Chairman of the ERISA Coordinating Committee, and President of the Million Dollar Round Table Foundation that successfully enabled ''MADD'' and ''Make-aWish'' in becoming national organizations. He was a General Agent of New England Financial for 22 years. In his first year as a General Agent, his NY agency placed second but for the remainder of his 21 year career he was the Company leader. Ed also served as a Trustee for Trinity Episcopal School of Ministry in Ambridge, PA, Barrington College and Gordon College in Wenham MA, and the American College in Bryn Mawr, PA. He was Senior Warden at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Darien, CT for three years and served on its Vestry for nine years. A memorial service will be held at Cedarfield on Saturday, March 3 at 2:30PM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to The Hermitage at Cedarfield Samaritan Fund, 2300 Cedarfield Parkway, Richmond, VA 23233; The American Parkinsons Association, Inc., 807 So. Alfred St #
      