
        CLARK-Howard L. It is with deep sorrow that the Directors, Managers and employees of American Express company mourn the passing of Howard L. Clark on February 2 at the age of 84. Mr. Clark was Chief Executive Officer of American Express from 1960 to 1977, a time of great expansion and success for the company. He was the beloved husband of Jean Beavan Clark and father of Howard L. Jr., Pamela, Stuart and Stephen. Mr. Clark's leadership and contributions had a lasting impact on building the American Express brand. He played a central role in the birth and growth of the American Express Card. He also oversaw the development of the company's travel and financial services businesses, and steady growth in the company's earnings, assets and shareholders' equity. During his tenure, the number of travel service offices increased fourfold to 650 locations in 108 countries; cardmembers totaled eight million; and charge volume exceeded $10 billion. Mr. Clark continued as a member of the American Express Board of Directors until 1983, and served as an Advisor to the Board from 1983 to 1993. He began his business career in 1937 with Price, Waterhouse & Company and left that firm to attend Harvard Law School from 1939 through 1942. After service in the Navy between 1942 and 1945, he joined American Express in 1945. After holding various positions in the company, he became Senior Vice President and Director in 1952, Executive Vice President in 1956, and President and Chief Executive Officer in 1960.
        CLARK-Howard Longstreth. The Trustees and colleagues of the American Museum of Natural History are deepely saddened by the death of Howard Longstreth Clark, devoted Trustee of the Museum since 1970 and Honorary Trustee since 1998. He was a valued and active member of the Board, who throughout his many years of service to the Museum brought extraordinary intel ligence, leadership, wisdom, and dedication to the Museum's work. We are deeply grateful for his longtime devotion and generosity in supporting its mission to educate the public about the natural world and global cultures. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Jean; his children, Howard, Pamela, Stuart, and Steve; his stepchildren, Susan, Albert, Lynde, Paul, and Patty, and the entire Clark family. Lewis W. Bernard, Chairman Ellen V. Futter, President American Museum of Natural History
        CLARK-Howard L. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of New YorkPresbyterian Hospital, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons, and Weill Medical College of Cornell University mourn the passing of Hospital Life Trustee, Howard L. Clark. A former President, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer of American Express Co., Mr. Clark was elected to the Board of the Presbyterian Hospital in the City of New York in 1960 and became Chairman of the Board in 1983. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Jean, who is also a Hospital Life Trustee, and to their children.
        CLARK-Howard L. Sr. The Board of Trustees notes with great sorrow, the passing of Howard Clark, one of the founding trustees of the Central Park Conservancy. A dedicated and generous trustee, he was an outstanding supporter of the Conservancy's mission. Howard's wife, Jean is one the founders of the Women's Committee and a member of the Board. Our condolences to Jean, his children and family. The Board of Trustees Central Park Conservancy A. J. C. Smith, Chairman
        CLARK-Howard L. The Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy mourns the passing of a very dear and loving friend. We are saddened by his leaving but fondly cherish our memories of him. Our prayers are with Jean, Howard, Karen and the entire Clark family at this difficult time. May your faith comfort you and your love for him and one another bring you solace. The Board of Directors of the Women's Committee
      