
        MOSCOVITZ-Howard, M.D. The staff of the Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute and the Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Howard Moscovitz, M.D. Dr. Moscovitz joined Mount Sinai in 1946 as an intern and rose to the rank of Clinical Professor of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and Attending Cardiologist, Mount Sinai Hospital. He performed pioneering research in cardiovascular physiology and was a superb clinician who provided compassionate and outstanding care to his patients. We are also grateful for his deep commitment to Mount Sinai. We offer our sincere condolences to his wife and family.
        MOSCOVITZ-Howard L., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our longstanding colleague, teacher, and friend. Dr. Moscovitz came to Mount Sinai as an intern in the Department of Medicine in 1946. After receiving training in Medicine, Pathology and Cardiology, he devoted the next 55 years to clinical teaching and to the excellent care of his patients. He will be rememberd for his practice skills and for his special warmth, humor, compassion and outstanding commitment to Mount Sinai. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Anthony Squire, MD, President Vicki Lopachin, MD, Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
        MOSCOVITZ-Howard L., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Avi Barbasch, M.D., President Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secretary William G. Stein, M.D., Treasurer
        MOSCOVITZ-Dr. Howard. Temple Sinai of Bergen County deeply mourns the death of our longtime member, Dr. Howard Moscovitz, beloved husband of Mayor Ann Moscovitz. Heartfelt condolences are extended to the entire family. Dr. Bruce S. Block, Rabbi Jane Koch Gellman, President
        MOSCOVITZ-Dr. Howard. As his patient for 45 years it's hard to believe Howard has preceded me on the journey; but then he promised me I'd make 92. Deepest condolences to Anne and family. Emile Charlap
      