
        COLEMAN-Nancy Jane. 62, fifth generation Houstonian, passed away after a courageous and dignified battle with cancer in her home on Saturday, February 24, 2001, surrounded by her family and loved ones. Nancy was a graduate of Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Connecticut, and Hollins College. Nancy was a lifelong student and teacher of music, especially piano. She took great pride in bringing music to people's lives as a former Executive Director of Young Audiences of Houston, a member of the Cultural Arts Council of Houston, member of the Junior League Sustainer Musical Group, piano instructor, and various other musical volunteer groups. Nancy was a member of the Forest Club, Junior League of Houston, The Assembly, Bolero, Garden Club of Houston, St. Martin's Episcopal Church, Galveston Boat Club, and Rockaway Hunting Club of Lawrence, New York. Nancy Jane Coleman was preceded in death by her parents Stewart P. Coleman and Jane Cochran Coleman Peck, and her sister, Margaret Stewart Coleman. She is survived by her children, Mr. and Mrs. Stewart Cochran (Diane) Hirtz, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Theodore (Amy) Hirtz, and Mr. and Mrs. William August (Krissy) Hirtz, grandchildren, Ian Stewart Coleman Hirtz and Margaret Elizabeth Hirtz, special friend, Mr. H. John Strom, former husband and father of her children, Mr. Theodore S. Hirtz, Jr., relatives from the Shepherd, Cochran, and Coleman families, and numerous friends. Friends and family are invited for visitation from 6 to 9 o'clock in the evening on Wednesday, February 28, 2001, at Nancy's home. Funeral services will be held at 11 o'clock in the morning, Thursday, March 1, 2001, at St. Martin's Episcopal Church, 717 Sage Road, with the Rev. Dr. Peter G. Thomas officiating. Interment will follow at Glenwood Cemetery. A reception will follow at her home. For those desiring, memorial contributions may be directed to CanCare or St. Martin's Cancer Support Group. For information, contact Geo. H. Lewis & Sons, 1010 Bering Drive, Houston, TX 77057, 713-789-3005.
      