
        ROGOWSKY-The Hon. Edward T. The staff, faculty and friends of the Pratt Institute Center for Community and Environmental Development deeply mourn the loss of our friend, colleague and collaborator, Ed Rogowsky. Ed was an inspiration and mentor to generations of students at Brooklyn College and at the City University of New York where he won their love, loyalty and admiration by his humor and intellect. His friendship knew no boundaries and he sought to befriend, help and educate everyone. He brought insight, integrity and clarity into New York's political community. He inspired all those who had the opportunity to serve with him on the NYC Planning Commission since his appointment in 1990. Brooklyn, where he was born and lived; New York which he loved, studied, wrote about and served; and the world are far better places because Ed cared and played a role in trying to make them better. Ed was a father, grandfather, a loving partner to Peter and part of many extended families, including our own. He will be missed. Rudy Bryant, Associate Director Ron Shiffman, Director
        ROGOWSKY-Edward T. The City University of New York mourns the untimely loss of our esteemed colleague and Brooklyn College alumnus, The Hon. Edward T. Rogowsky, insightful city editor and host of ''Metro View'', CUNY-TV's weekly public affairs program; director of the CUNY Internship Program in Government and Public Affairs; professor emeritus of political science at Brooklyn College, where he was director of the Brookyn College Graduate Center for Worker Education; and member of the New York City Planning Commission. His dedicated teaching, commitment to public service and loving personality will be long remembered. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved family. Herman Badillo, Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew Goldstein, Chancellor
        ROGOWSKY-Hon. Edward T. The management and employees of Forest City Ratner Companies mourn the passing of a great teacher, a devoted public servant and a good friend. No one knew more about Brooklyn or loved it more deeply. As a member of the City Planning Commission, an activist and scholar, Ed played a prominent role in shaping the redevelopment of his beloved native borough. We extend our deepest condolences to his loved ones. Bruce Ratner, President and Chief Executive Officer
        ROGOWSKY-Edward. The staff of Program Planners Inc. is deeply saddened by the loss of our colleague and friend Ed. His sharp insights about the working of our city, his appreciation of its history and understanding of its people will be missed. His assistance was invaluable in our endeavor to create a video record of the 1970's municipal fiscal crisis. His genuine warmth touched us all. We extend our sympathies to his family. Jack Bigel, President Allen Brawer, Nancy Gaeta, Burt Lazarin, Michael Spear
        ROGOWSKY-Edward. The Brooklyn College Community mourns the passing of Professor Emeritus of the Department of Political Science, Edward Rogowsky. He was director of the Brooklyn College Graduate Center for Worker Education. His 33 years of teaching and service will be long remembered. Christoph M. Kimmich President, Brooklyn College
      