
        SKOOG-Charles ''Charlie'' V., Jr. For most of his life, Charlie was an advertising man. First, and probably last, as a copywriter. Over his 40 years at Hicks and Greist Agency, he advanced to Chairman of the Board. In fact, Charlie's 25 years as Chairman may be a record for that many years in office. His most memorable campaigns included ''Riunite on ice-so nice'', ''Beefeater-First name for the Martini'', Joe Namath's corn popper spot for Hamilton Beach, and the Little Mac Burger Maker. Born in New York on June 2, 1918 to Charles Vernon and Eleanor E. Skoog, he lived most of his life in New York City and East Quogue, Long Island, with the last 12 winters in Vero Beach, FL. Charlie attended Alexander Hamilton High School, City College of New York (nights) and New York University (nights), where he was a member of Violet Skull, Alpha Kappa Psi, Alpha Piu Sigma. He assisted the famed George Burton Hotchkins advanced copy classes. An ardent golfer, he traveled to England, Scotland and Ireland with a favorite foursome to play all the courses on which the British Open was and is featured. He was a member of the Garden City Golf Club, the Shinnicock Hills Golf Club, the Westhampton Country Club, serving as president of the latter. In Florida, Charlie played at John's Island and Bent Pine Golf Clubs. Starting in 1999. he instituted four Scholarship funds for the Volunteer Fire Departments of East Moriches, Eastport, Westhampton Beach and East Quogue that will continue in perpetuity. He attended St. Mark's Episcopal Church in Westhampton Beach, and will be interred at the Columbarium there. Charlie is survived by the Petersen family, Robin, Joel, Jamie and Chip, and the Rev. Bruce Rudolph of Patchogue, NY. Charlie served in the Army Air Corps during World War II from 1942-1946, with the 435th Troop Carriers Group in Africa and the European Theatre. He was awarded a Bronze Star and a Croix de Guerre and the Presidential Unit Citations for the glider and paratroop drops in Normandy Nothern France, Ardennes, Central Europe, Southern France, Rome Arena, Rhineland. He was honorably discharged as a Major in the Army Air Corps. Memorial contributions may be made to the charity of one's choice in Mr. Skoog's memory. A memorial service will take place on Saturday, June 16, 2001 at St. Mark's Episcopal Church in Westhampton Beach, Long Island, New York.
      