
        QUICK-Leslie C. Jr., 75, on March 8, 2001, of North Palm Beach, FL and Aspen, CO, formerly of Laurel Hollow, NY. Wall Street visionary and philanthropist, founded Quick & Reilly, the first New York Stock Exchange member firm to offer discounted commissions to individuals and one of the nation's leading brokerage firms, expanding the business to include one of the largest specialist firms on the New York Stock Exchange, a major clearing and execution firm, and a NASDAQ market maker. An ebullient, dynamic and charismatic leader of the firm that bears his name, Mr. Quick was also highly esteemed for his philanthropy and leadership abilities in charitable, religious and civic causes. He was past Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Fairfield University and served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Alfred E. Smith Foundation; the Dana Farber Hospital in Boston; founder and member of the Board of Directors of The Inner City Scholarship Endowment Fund in New York City as well as board member of the Gregorian University in Rome, Italy. Additionally, Mr. Quick served as Chairman of the Board of St. Francis Heart Hospital and on the advisory council of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, TN. He was a Trustee of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories. Mr. Quick was a Knight of Malta, Knight of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem and a member of the Cardinal's Committee of the Laity of the Archdiocese of New York. Mr. Quick graduated from Pennsylvania Military College, now Widener University, in 1950, and served as Chairman of its Board of Trustees. Widener awarded him an honorary doctorate in business administration in 1990 in recognition of his many accomplishments and achievements. He also received an honorary Doctorate of Law from Fairfield University. He was patron of both St. John Chrysostom School in Manhattan and St. Anselm School located in the Bronx. Mr. Quick is survived by wife of 50 years, Regina, children Leslie III, Thomas, Peter, Christopher, Mary Pedersen, Nancy Gibson, and Patricia Quick, 24 grandchildren, and a brother, Herbert. He was predeceased by his grandson, Raymond Crile Quick. A Memorial Mass will be held at St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York City, on Monday, March 12, at 10am. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Leslie C. Quick Inner City Scholarship Endowment Fund, c/o Quick & Reilly, Inc., 26 Broadway, New York, NY 10004. QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. The President and Trustees of Fairfield University are deeply saddened by the death of their longtime colleague, friend and benefactor, Leslie C. Quick, Jr. Mr. Quick was the immediate past Chairman of the Board of Trustees and a member of the Board from 1982 through 1995. A dedicated Trustee, Mr. Quick was committed to Fairfield's mission as a Jesuit and Catholic university and strongly supported various University projects, including the arts. In 1990, with his generous support and leadership, the University constructed and dedicated the Regina A. Quick Center for the Arts named for his beloved wife, which continues to benefit students and the wider community each day. Mr. Quick was the father of three Fairfield University graduatesThomas, Christopher and Mary and a daughter-in-law, Eileen Manning Quick. Fairfield University was honored and blessed by the friendship and commitment of Mr. Quick and, by its conferral of an Honorary Doctorate on him in 1999, proudly made him forever an alumnus of the University. QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. The Gregorian University Foundation in the United States and the Pontifical Gregorian University Consortium in Rome mourn the loss of the Foundation's Vice Chairman, Leslie C. Quick, Jr. His inspiring leadership, his extraordinary generosity, his wise counsel and his warm friendship have endeared him to his fellow board members and to the faculty and students in Rome for whom he cared so deeply. We have loved him much and we will miss him greatly. We extend our love and deepest sympathy to Jean, who shared his life for 50 years, to his beloved children, Leslie III, Thomas, Peter, Christopher, Mary, Nancy and Patricia, and to his 24 grandchildren. Peter P. Mullen, Chairman William R. Grant, Vice Chairman Rev. Eugene O'Brien, S.J., Pres. Rev. Franco Imoda, S.J. Rev. Robert O'Toole, S.J. Rev. Hector Vall, S.J. QUICK-Les. We the D'Urso Family feel privileged to have known Les Quick as a special friend. Les' extraordinary generosity of heart in helping so many worthy causes was beyond measure. We in the Archdiocese of New York have been truly blessed to have known this great giant! As an outstanding husband and family man, Les will be greatly missed, not only by his family, but by his friends as well. We trust that he is now in the embrace of our Lord and his blessed mother who will say, ''Well done, our most faithful servant!''. With a heavy heart, Florence D'Urso and her family send their profound sympathy, dearest love and prayers to his lovely wife Regina and her dear family. QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. The residents, staff, and Trustees of Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center mourn the loss of our great friend, supporter and benefactor, Leslie C. Quick, Jr., and we extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Mr. Quick was a major force in the establishment of an endowment fund that supports all volunteer programs at the Center. In addition, Mr. Quick provided ongoing support to many of the Center's programs and services that benefit disabled children, the elderly, and people with chronic illnesses. The spirit of his commitment to the Center will always be with us, and his family will remain in our prayers. QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. A man whose life represented the best of what man can strive for. He embraced life to the fullest, adored and cherished his family to the utmost and always sought and succeeded in doing the right thing. His wisdom and spirit has brighten the life all those lucky enough to have crossed paths with him. Our deepest sympathy to his loving family. With love and respect, Catherine and Fred Adler
      