
        CHUSID-Joseph G., M.D. Age 86, on March 23, 2001, of Brookfield, WI, formerly of Wantagh, NY. He was an internationally known physician, researcher, author and medical educator, respected and beloved by colleagues, students and patients alike. He had Parkinson's disease. He was born in Newark, NJ, 1914, and was a graduate of the Unviersity of Pennsylvania in 1934 and its medical school in 1938. He began his practice and research in neurology in 1940 while Medical Director at the Philadelphia Home for the Incurables and Assistant Instructor of Neurology at Penn medical school. He enlisted in the Army during WWII and was assigned to the Army Air Force Regional Station Hospital in Coral Gables, FL; he ultimately rose to the rank of major. During this time, he commenced his career as contributor, co-author and eventually sole author of the best selling medical textbook ''Correlative Neuroanatomy and Functional Neurology.'' Popular with medical students and others, the book sold more than a million copies and was reproduced in a dozen languages during the 40 years he was associated with it. Following military service, he pursued medical research at the University of Illinois and Yale and Columbia Universities. In 1947, he joined the staff of St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in New York City, becoming Director of the Neurology Department in 1970; he retired in 1984. He served as a board examiner for the American Board of Neurology and was on the clinical faculty at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, New Jersey College of Medicine and New York Medical College. He was a member of many professional societies, including Alpha Omega Alpha, the American Academy of Neurology, the American Epilepsy Society and the American Medical EEG Society. His wife of 49 years, Anna Kathryn, died in 1991. He is survived by one son, Michael J., M.D., of Brookfield, one daughter, Joanna, of Alexandria, VA, and two grandchildren, Karen and Paul. Contributions to the Chusid Neurology Library at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center.
      