
        ABRAMSON-Edward M. Age 65, March 18. Survived by his mother Roslyn, wife Harriet, children Daniel and Deborah, brother David, sister-in-law Ellen, nephew Mark, brother-in-law and sister-in-law Joel and Fran Teisch, nieces Jessica, Rachel, Abby. Loyal friend and adviser to so many. Faced a devastating illness the same way he faced life-with courage, dignity and humor. Funeral services will be held today, Tuesday, at 11:45am at ''The Riverside'' 76th St & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to Project ALS, 511 6th Ave, NYC 10011.
        ABRAMSON-Edward M. Ed-a man whose recreations included climbing mountains-sought the challenge. Although he had opportunities to start his career at any of the Wall Street law firms, Ed, with a goal in mind, took the ''road less traveled'' and joined a firm of four lawyers. Now, forty years later, with the help of Ed's exceptional leadership, we are 130 lawyers and it is still true that, as Ed was wont to say with great pride, ''no partner ever left our firm to practice law at another law firm.'' Ed's last challenge-ALS-was not chosen. Despite increasing difficulty he came to his office. We heard no complaints, no anger; Ed smiled and joked until the last day he was with us. His spirit triumphed. We will respect Ed's wish that we refrain from extended encomiums. Suffice it to say that we shall always honor his memory and appreciate his accomplishments. Ed's family is dear to us, and we extend our deepest sympathies and condolences to his wife Harriet, his children, Dan and Debbie, his mother Roslyn Abramson, his brother David, sister-in-law Ellen, and nephew Mark.
        ABRAMSON-Edward M. The Friends of Bezalel, Israel's National Academy of Art and Design, deeply mourn the passing of our immediate past President and generous behefactor, Edward M. Abramson. With his brilliant mind, wise counsel, and magnificent heart, he reenergized the Friends, making the 2000 fund raising effort the most successful in the organization's history. He will be sorely missed. We extend sincere condolences to his wife Harriet, children Daniel and Deborah, mother Roslyn, and brother David. May they be comforted among the mourners in Zion. Romie Shapiro, Founder and Chairman Emeritus Martin Blumenthal, Chairman Robert David, President Shea Z. Lerner, Executive Vice President
        ABRAMSON-Edward M. The Board of Directors and residents of 910 Park Avenue mourn the passing of our dear friend, caring neighbor and Board Vice President, Edward Abramson. We extend our heartfelt condolences to all the members of the bereaved family. Respected for his commitment, admired for his principles and courage, we will miss him deeply.
        ABRAMSON-Edward M. The Directors, Offices and employees of MetBank mourn the passing of our Chairman, Edward M. Abramson. His advice and wise counsel will continue to guide us for many years to come. We extend our condolences to his wife Harriet, children Daniel and Deborah, and to all members of the bereaved family. Metropolitan National Bank
        ABRAMSON-Edward M. The Boys of Camp Mohican express their sorrow at the loss of a fellow camper and friend. Ed was known to most of us for over fifty years and was a great athlete and a greater person. He was a Cup Winner and a Charter Member of the Honor League. Our prayers are with his family. Barry Peretz, Julie Eisen and Marty Eisen
        ABRAMSON-Edward M. As a business, we will miss your counsel which has helped us grow and prosper over these many years. As individuals, we will miss your warm friendship, your keen insight and your wonderful attitude about life. Thanks for helping make our business successful and our lives enriched. Gould Investors L.P.
        ABRAMSON-Edward. You were a tremendous positive influence on me both professionally and personally. Your brilliance, counsel, virtue and courage will be sorely missed. You created an entire culture at the firm, one I am certain will survive for generations to come. My condolences to Harriet, Daniel, Deborah and Roslyn. Richard J. Brown
        ABRAMSON-Edward. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member, Edward Abramson. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to his family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Alisa R. Doctoroff, President
        ABRAMSON-Edward. A friend for too short a time. His wit and intellect were his hallmark. To Harriet, our love and admiration for your courage. To Debbie and Danny, you were blessed with a wonderful father. He will never be forgotten. Linda and Jerry Spitzer
        ABRAMSON-Edward M. Distinguished attorney and philanthropist; devoted husband and father. His vision of excellence and respect for historic preservation became the hallmark of his firm. Eddie: ''To thee we'll e'er be true.'' Davida and Alvin Deutsch
        ABRAMSON-Edward M. My teacher, my sage, my friend. Farewell. Deepest sympathy to Harriet, to Danny and Debbie, to Roslyn and to David. Liz Vaughan
      