
        TRANTUM-Adron P. (Ade). Died in his sleep on March 13, 2001, at Indian River Estates of Vero Beach, Florida. Adron was born on November 8, 1904, the son of Cleveland Adron Trantum and Lottie Pauline Dewey. He is survived by his sister Mary Alice Higgins of Asheville, North Carolina, and brother Leland Trantum of Southbury, Connecticut; and predeceased by sisters Emily Gates and Elizabeth Denham Roth. Adron leaves four children, Martha Lee Cooper and her husband Victor C. of Vero Beach, FL; Rhona Jean Beltz and her husband R. Judson of Latrobe, PA; Kathleen Joan Riester and her husband Frederick C. of Selkirk, New York; and Tad Trantum and his wife Lynda Ann of Hendersonville, TN; thirteen grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Adron was predeceased by his wife of 42 years, Kathleen Simpson Trantum, in 1981, and by his wife of 17 years, Peggy Jarvis Trantum, in 1999. Adron was born in Jamestown, New York, and spent his early years in Hagerstown, Maryland, and Ingold, North Carolina. He attended Columbia University and obtained his degree at Pace College in New York City. In the summer of 1929 Adron joined The Investors Management Company, now part of the American Funds, in Elizabeth, New Jersey. He retired from the same firm as senior portfolio manager in 1968. In 1941 Adron and Kathleen moved to Ridgewood, New Jersey, where their family was raised and their children graduated from Ridgewood High School. He was a Decaon of the West Side Presbyterian Church. Adron and Kathleen spent the first five years of their retirement in South Yarmouth, Massachusetts, before moving to Vero Beach, Florida, in 1972. Following Kathleen's death, Adron and Peggy married in 1983. Adron, Peggy and their late spouses had first met in 1949, so when they lost their life's mates, their union and love for each other was natural. It was an inspiration for their families and confirmed that life does not end with the loss of a spouse. Their enjoyment of life together should be a reminder that life can begin at eighty! Adron's time with us was filled with career achievement, caring, and laughter. Above all, his legacy is his devotion to Kathleen and Peggy, his children, and his extended family. All who knew him miss him. Donations in his memory may be made to VNA Hospice of Indian River County, 1111 36th Street, Vero Beach, FL 32960. Interment will be at George Washington Memorial Gardens in Paramus, New Jersey, at the convenience of the family.
      