
        NEWMAN-Irving. Beloved husband of Stella and the late Gladys. Devoted and cherished father of Leslie and Keri. Loving father-inlaw of Alan and Arnold. Proud grandfather of Jonathan, Justin, Giulia and Rebecca. Dear brother of Sandy. Loving stepfather of David, Rose and Sandy, and stepgrandfather of Michelle. Loved by many and will be missed by all. Services ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New York City, 1:15 PM, Tuesday.
        NEWMAN-Irving. To my husband and life's companion you will be sorely missed. Funeral Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76 Street, 1:15PM today, March 20th. Love Stella Shiva will be at The Friars Club, 57 East 55th St., Tuesday night and Wednesday 12 to 9. In lieu of flowers, donations should be made to Brigham And Womens Hospital, Cardiac Surgical Research Fund, C/O Dr. Lawrence Cohn, Professor Harvard Medical School, 75 Francis Street, Boston, MA. 02115.
        NEWMAN-Irving. To our stepfather, your kindness and love of life will always be remembered. David and Rose
        NEWMAN-Irving. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Chemotherapy Foundation mourn the sad passing of Irving Newman, staunch benefactor for over 30 years. His sophisticated understanding and dedicated support were influential in expanding the Foundation's grant programs and advancing chemotherapy research and clinical science to improve the control, cure, and prevention of cancer through innovative medical therapies. His warmth of spirit and loyalty will be remembered with affection and gratitude always. Ezra M. Greenspan, M.D. Chairman and Medical Director Barry Richter President
        NEWMAN-Irving. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Irving Newman, on Sunday, March 18, 2001. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Tuesday, March 20th, 1PM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W 76 St, N.Y. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        NEWMAN-Irving. Dearest cousin and friend, a most extraordinary person, you will be forever in our hearts. Our deepest sympathies to all of the family. With affection, Mel and Hy David, Gregory Peck
        NEWMAN-Irving. We cannot imagine life without you. You will be in our hearts forever. Love, Leslie, Alan, Jonathan and Justin
        NEWMAN-Irving. You've touched all of our lives. You will live in our hearts and minds forever. Love, Keri, Arnold, Giulia and Rebecca
        NEWMAN-Irving. To our dear friend Irving, thank you for touching our lives. We will miss you. Larry and Roberta Cohn
      