
        QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. The President and Trustees of Fairfield University are deeply saddened by the death of their longtime colleague, friend and benefactor, Leslie C. Quick, Jr. Mr. Quick was the immediate past Chairman of the Board of Trustees and a member of the Board from 1982 through 1995. A dedicated Trustee, Mr. Quick was committed to Fairfield's mission as a Jesuit and Catholic university and strongly supported various University projects, including the arts. In 1990, with his generous support and leadership, the University constructed and dedicated the Regina A. Quick Center for the Arts named for his beloved wife, which continues to benefit students and the wider community each day. Mr. Quick was the father of three Fairfield University graduatesThomas, Christopher and Mary and a daughter-in-law, Eileen Manning Quick. Fairfield University was honored and blessed by the friendship and commitment of Mr. Quick and, by its conferral of an Honorary Doctorate on him in 1999, proudly made him forever an alumnus of the University.
        QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. The Gregorian University Foundation in the United States and the Pontifical Gregorian University Consortium in Rome mourn the loss of the Foundation's Vice Chairman, Leslie C. Quick, Jr. His inspiring leadership, his extraordinary generosity, his wise counsel and his warm friendship have endeared him to his fellow board members and to the faculty and students in Rome for whom he cared so deeply. We have loved him much and we will miss him greatly. We extend our love and deepest sympathy to Jean, who shared his life for 50 years, to his beloved children, Leslie III, Thomas, Peter, Christopher, Mary, Nancy and Patricia, and to his 24 grandchildren. Peter P. Mullen, Chairman William R. Grant, Vice Chairman Rev. Eugene O'Brien, S.J., Pres. Rev. Franco Imoda, S.J. Rev. Robert O'Toole, S.J. Rev. Hector Vall, S.J.
        QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. The Sponsors, Board of Directors, administration, physicians and staff of Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers of New York mourn the passing of Leslie C. Quick, Jr. Mr. Quick and his family were committed to the mission of Catholic health care and to Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers of New York. We are honored that his two sons, Christopher and Leslie C., III, continued his tradition of offering insightful leadership, wise counsel and generosity of spirit by serving as active members of our boards. We extend our warmest condolences to his wife Regina, his children and grandchildren. Elizabeth A. Vermaelen, S.C. Most Rev. Joseph M. Sullivan, Co-Chairs, Board of Directors Alfred E. Smith, IV, Chair, SVCMC Foundation David J. Campbell, President and CEO, SVCMC
        QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. A man whose life represented the best of what man can strive for. He embraced life to the fullest, adored and cherished his family to the utmost and always sought and succeeded in doing the right thing. His wisdom and spirit has brighten the life all those lucky enough to have crossed paths with him. Our deepest sympathy to his loving family. With love and respect, Catherine and Fred Adler
        QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. The Board of Trustees of Inner City Scholarship Endowment Fund extends its deepest sympathy to Regina Quick and the Quick family. His life was an inspiration to us all. His legacy will continue in the lives of the thousands of inner-city children who were so deeply enriched by his generosity and compassion. Russell L. Carson, Vice Chairman Board of Trustees
        QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. The Board of Directors of the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation expresses its profound sorrow to the Quick family on the death of Leslie C. Quick Jr. Leslie was a guiding light and generous supporter of the Foundation. His wisdom and his humor will be greatly missed. Alfred E. Smith IV, Managing Director, Hunter Specialist
      