
        EASLICK-David K. Longtime telephone company executive and civic and community leader, died Wednesday, March 14, in Naples, Fla., where he had wintered away from his Grosse Pointe Farms home for more than 20 years. He was 80. Mr. Easlick graduated from University High in Ann Arbor and then earned a B.A. degree from the University of Michigan in 1942. He was a Sloan Fellow at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1954, was awarded an honorary doctor of law degree by Butler University in 1972, and was awarded an honorary degree of doctor of business administration by Eastern Michigan University in 1981. His fraternity was Phi Kappa Psi. Easlick's career at Michigan Bell began in Ann Arbor in 1948. He rose through the ranks to become vice president of personnel by 1960 and three years later took a post at AT&T, at the time Michigan Bell's parent company, to be the AT&T representative on President Kennedy's national task force on integration and equal rights. He was with Indiana Bell Telephone Company from 1963 to 1972, leaving as President of the company. In 1972 he returned to AT&T as vice president human resources and negotiated the historic national agreement on behalf of the Bell System with the U.S. Department of Labor and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to facilitate the movement of minorities and women into better jobs. After this assignment, Easlick served as Michigan Bell president from July 1973 until September 1983 when he was named chairman and retired. His concern for social justice was recognized by the Detroit NAACP when he was appointed co-chairman of its annual Fight for Freedom dinner in 1978 and when he was named Humanitarian of the Year in 1976 by the International B'nai B'rith. In World War II he served in the army as an infantry officer and spent three years in the European Theater where he took part in the D-day landing and in the Battle of the Bulge. He was awarded the Bronze Star with Oak Leaf cluster and the Silver Star as well as the Croix de Guerre by the French government. He was discharged as a major in 1945. Mr. Easlick was a director of a host of companies and community organizations, including American United Life Insurance Co., National Bank of Detroit, NBD Bancorp, Inc., Economic Club of Detroit, United Foundation of Southeastern Michigan and International Freedom Fund. His community involvement including serving as a trustee of the Boys and Girls Clubs of Metropolitan Detroit, Interlochen Center for the Arts, HarperGrace Hospital, New Detroit, Inc., Citizens Research Council of Michigan, Diocese of Michigan, Grosse Point Farms Foundation, and the Rose Hill Center in Holly, Michigan. Survivors include his wife Lucy; son David K. Easlick, Jr., daughters Susan Easlick Heinen and Anne Easlick, and six grandchildren, Christoph, Alexander, Max and Marta Heinen and Sarah and David Easlick. His parents were Dr. Kenneth Easlick and Mercie VanAken Easlick. Dr. Easlick was founding chairman of Pediatric Dentistry of the School of Dentistry at the University of Michigan. A memorial service will be held at Christ Church, Grosse Pointe Farms on August 11. Contributions may be sent to the David K. Easlick Memorial Fund, c/o Goodman & Breen, Attorneys at Law, 3838 Tamiami Trail North, Suite 300, Naples, FL 34103.
      