
        ARIEL-Robert A. Ph.D. Born May 30, 1951, NYC. Died February 7, 2001, at St. Vincent Hospital, NYC. Beloved son of Josephine Virnig Stannard, Rosemount, MN, and the late Irving M. Ariel, M.D., NYC; cherished stepson of Raymond Stannard; dear brother of Paula Stannard, Chicago, IL, Catherine Stannard (and husband David O'Brien), Ann Arbor, MI, and Martha Johnson (and husband Charles), Farmington, MN; cherished nephew of Lillian Ariel Malzman, Honolulu, HI, and of Dr. Morris (and wife Opal) Virnig, Owensboro, KY, Dr. Hildegard Virnig, Caledonia, MN, and Dr. Norman (and wife Kathleen) Virnig, St. Cloud, MN; stepson of Ingegard Angerer Ariel, NYC, and stepbrother of Mark (and wife Corinna) Angerer, Stuttgart, Germany. He is also survived by longtime family friends, the Herb and Phyllis Zarrow family, Fair Lawn, NJ, and by many other relatives and friends. Dr. Ariel graduated from Dartmouth College with an A.B. in Chemistry in 1973. As a Marshall Scholar at Balliol College, Oxford University, he earned an M.A. in Physics and Philosophy. He subsequently earned a Ph.D. in Finance from MIT, and a Ph.D. in Philosophy from the Univeristy of Minnesota. Dr. Ariel was an Assistant Professor of Economics and Finance at Baruch College, City University of New York, where he had taught since 1986. Much of his research focused on identifying seasonal patterns in stock prices. He was a longtime member of the Baruch Faculty Senate and, as a leader in the faculty, was an expert on the college and university budget. Robert was charming, brilliant and loving; a gracious son, brother and nephew; a remarkable friend, scholar, colleague and teacher. Robert's interests ranged from the sciences to music, and he especially enjoyed listening to and singing Handel's ''Messiah.'' He will be geatly missed and remembered forever. A memorial service for Dr. Ariel will be held at Baruch College, Conference Center Room 750, 151 E. 25th St, NYC, on Thursday, March 8, 2001, at 12:25 PM. In lieu of flowers, memorials are preferred to the Baruch College Fund, Baruch College, 17 Lexington Ave, Box D-0901, NYC 10010; the Rudolph Steiner School, 15 E. 79th St, NYC 10021; or the St. Vincent Hospital Spiritiual Care Department, St. Vincent Catholic Medical Center, 170 W. 12th St., Spellman 117, NYC 10011.
      