
        LOCKHART - George R., 71. Passed away Friday, March 9, 2001. He will live on always in the hearts of his loving wife Inez Kirby, daughter Mariko Lockhart, her husband Cesar Torres and mother Etsuko (Eppie) Lockhart, his grandchildren Jorge and Natalia, & his sister Edith Schultz. He was predeceased by his son Aaron. Born in Panama City, Panama on March 30, 1929, George Lockhart grew up in Chicago. He graduated from the University of Illnois and received a Master's in Social Work from Columbia University. After serving in the U.S. Army, he embarked on a lifelong career in social services, including Program Management of the Lower Eastside's University Settlement House and Directorship of Pioneer Youth Camp. George Lockhart went on to a tenured professorship in the Graduate School of Social Work at Adelphi University. Recognized as a highly imaginative and unassumingly brilliant master teacher and scholar, George Lockhart won the profound respect, admiration and recognition of his colleagues. His commitment to social work and his focus on community organizing are a noble legacy that lives on in the countless social workers he taught and nurtured. A gifted musician, George brought music into the lives of all he touched. A celebration of his life will be held on Saturday, March 17, 2001 at 2:30PM at the Friend's Meeting House, 15th Street & Rutherford Place (between 2nd and 3rd Avenues) in Manhattan. Reception to follow. In lieu of flowers, a donation to a charity of your choice would be appreciated.
        LOCKHART - George. George, here is the picture we hold in our hearts forever. You and the guitar making an unbroken circle, under the Common Locust, with your head thrown back, you are singing, singing. We are all singing. George, your thousand Catkill children-all races, one race-are who we are because of you. ''This mornin', this evenin', so soon'' The Pioneer Youth Camp Family
        LOCKHART-George. We extend our heartfelt sympathies and deepest condolences to our dear friend and colleague Inez Kirby on the tragic passing of her husband George Lockhart. Our thoughts and prayers are with you during this difficult time. Love, your friends at the Starlight Children's Foundation
      