
        DOBROF-Alfred. The Board of Directors, Residents and Staff of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the loss of Alfred Dobrof, beloved husband of our dear friend and colleague Rose. We extend our heartfelt codolences to the entire Dobrof family on the loss of a husband, father and grandfather. The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale
        DOBROF-Alfred. Died peacefully at home on March 6. Son of the late Joseph and Mamie Remens Dobrof and brother of the late Arlene Axelrod. Deeply mourned by his loving family: his wife, Rose, his daughters, Marilyn Katz, Joan Penrod, and Susan and Judy Dobrof; by his sons-in-law, Daniel E. Katz, Stephen Penrod, and Frank Young, and by the grandchildren he adored, Julie and Lauren Beth Katz, Rachel Dobrof Penrod, and Henry Dobrof Young. Survived also by his niece, Barbara Cramer, and nephew, Peter Axelrod, and by his brother-in-law and nephews and niece-in-law Franklyn, Tom, and David Holzman, and Miriam Meyers. Services will be held at Sinai Free Synagogue, 550 North Columbus Avenue, Mount Vernon on Friday, March 9 at 10:30AM. The family will be at home at 104 Forster Avenue, Mount Vernon, on Friday from 1 to 5, on Saturday from 2 to 5 and on Sunday from 25. The family welcomes contributions in his memory to the Saint Paul's Historical Society or to the Alfred and Rose Dobrof Endowment Fund, Brookdale Center on Aging, 1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York City 10036.
        DOBROF-Alfred. The Staff and Board of Overseers of the Brookdale Center on Aging of Hunter College mourn the loss of Alfred Dobrof, beloved husband of Dr. Rose Dobrof, Brookdale Professor of Derontology and Founding Director of the Brookdale Center on Aging. An accomplished social work professional, administrator and consultant, Alfred was a warm and gentle man whose devotion to Rose and love of his family and friends was an inspiration for all of us. We join daughters, Marilyn, Joan, Susan and Judy, and sons-in-law Danny, Stephen, and Frank and grandhcildren Julie, Rachel, Lauren, and Henry in their grief, and hope that the memory of his goodness and grace will sustain them during this difficult time. We are proud that he called us his friends, and we shall miss him greatly. Judah L. Ronch, Ph.d, Exec. Dir. Pat Gilberto, MSW, Assoc. Dir. Harvey Dreyer, Chairman Board of Overseers
        DOBROF-Alfred. We will miss the beautiful twinkle in Alfred's eye, his marvelous wit and his deep social convictions. Alfred was a man of morality and ethics. The beautiful love shared with his beloved wife Rose was as precious as that of any newlywed. The love he felt for his four wonderful daughters and his grandchildren was only matched by their love for him. We extend our deep sorrow to Rose, our dear friend and colleague, and the entire Dobrof family. The Reingold Family
        DOBROF-Alfred. We mourn the passing of Alfred Dobrof, a generous and loving man, the best of men, a joy to have known, now at peace. We are with you, Rose, in your hour of sorrow. Rick and Elizabeth Moody
      