
        WOOTTON-Philip H. Jr. On March 17, 2001. In Stamford, Ct. Age 82. An innovative Life Magazine editor and later a rancher in Colorado, Mr. Wootton was a 1940 Cum Laude Yale graduate in Economic Geology and Editor of Yale Scientific Magazine. He was born September 12, 1918 in New York City to Philip Henry Wootton and Anna Irving. In the mid 1950s, as Assistant Managing Editor, Mr. Wootton lead a team of Life editors and reporters who developed the concept of special issues and serials that underpinned the magazine's growth in the post-war, pre-television years. As Executive Editor in 1961 to 1963 among many other projects, he oversaw the Life Magazine special on the assassination of John F. Kennedy. Later, as Associate Director of research and development, he concentrated on multi-media development and contractual relations with broadcast and television companies. In 1971 Mr. Wootton purchased Singing River Ranch in Red Wing, Colorado. With his wife and family, Mr. Wooten ran the guest and cattle ranch for seven years. He sold the working half of the ranch in 1977 and retired, building a small cabin and barn nearby. Mr. Wootton was a longtime former member of the Woodway Country Club, a member of the Country Club of New Canaan, a former Board member of the New Canaan Nature Center and assisted regularly at Pegasus, a therapeutic riding program for the handicapped. Mr. Wootton's survivors include his wife of 58 years Marie Core Duffy Wootton of New Canaan, CT., two sons Philip H. III of Monroe, CT, William R. of Marlboro, VT., two daughers Constance Wootton Nichols of New Canaan, CT., and Elizabeth Ann Core Wootton of New Haven, CT., three nieces and a nephew and eight grandchildren: Justin, Peter and James Wootton; Russell and Clara Wootton; Elizabeth and Katharine Nichols, and Marina Wootton. A private interment will be followed by a memorial Mass at 11AM Saturday, March 24, at St. Thomas More Church, Middlesex Road, Darien, CT. Donations in memory of Mr. Wootton may be made to Waveny Care Center, Farm Road, New Canaan, CT. 06840 or to the New Canaan Volunteer Ambulance Corps, South Avenue, New Canaan, CT. 06840.
        WOOTTON-Philip. Retired editor of Life Magazine on March 17, 2001. Beloved husband of Marie Core Duffy Wootton. Loving father of two sons, Philip Henry and William R. Wootton and two daughters, Constance Nichols and Elizabeth Wootton. Grandfather to eight grandchildren. Funeral services Saturday, March 24, at 11 am in St. Thomas More R.C. Church in Darien, CT. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Waveny Care Center, 3 Farm Rd, New Canaan, CT 06840, or New Canaan Volunteer Ambulance Corp, South Ave, New Canaan, CT 06840.
      