
        RIVES-Wendy, M.D. Died on Saturday, March 24, 2001, at NYU Medical Center at the age of thirty-nine due to complications of breast cancer. Dr. Rives was the Director of the Comprehensive Psychiatric Emergency Program at Bellevue Hospital. Beloved spouse to JoAnn, mother of Hal, daughter, sister, niece, aunt, and friend, she was a compassionate physician, and an advocate for the disenfranchised. Dr. Rives was a dedicated teacher who was deeply appreciated by her students and residents, and an exceptional leader. She will be remembered for her wide-ranging intellect and provocative viewpoints. Wendy won the affection of those who knew her with her incisive wit and charm. Born in Decatur, Georgia, Dr. Rives received her medical degree at Medical College of Georgia. She trained in psychiatry at Temple University and served as Chief Resident. Most recently, she was an attending physician and assistant professor of psychiatry at NYU Medical Center. She won recognition for excellence in teaching, supervision, and academic scholarship. Dr. Rives is survived by her partner of eleven years, Dr. JoAnn Difede, and their son, Hal Difede Rives; her parents, Barbara and Hal Rives of Tucker, Georgia; her brother and sister-inlaw, Jack and Eve Rives of Roswell, Georgia, and her sister and brother-in-law, Drs. Cathy Rives and Lionel Corbett of Santa Barbara, California, as well as three nephews, Michael and Jeffrey Rives and Gabriel Rives-Corbett. Dr. Rives will be buried near her home in East Hampton, NY. The funeral service is private. A memorial service will be held on or about May 7, 2001, details to be announced at a later date. Donations in Dr. Rives' memory may be made to The Brain Tumor Foundation, c/o Patrick Kelly, M.D., 530 First Avenue, Suite 8R, New York, New York 10021. The family would like to express their gratitude to the medical staff of the NYU Medical Center MICU for their exceptional care of Dr. Rives during the last two months of her life.
        RIVES-Wendy A. Family, friends and colleagues mourn the loss of Wendy Rives, M.D. on March 24, 2001. Her humor and wisdom in the face of absurdity provided much needed balance and perspective. Her courage and kindness inspired zealous devotion that will survive as long as memory. As Director of the Comprehensive Psychiatric Emergency Program of Bellevue Hospital, Dr. Rives was a gifted clinician and tenacious leader. Those who were fortunate enough to seek her counsel lose an invaluable teacher. Those who had the privilege of receiving her affection lose an irreplaceable friend. Those who by the grace of God have called Wendy sister, daughter, mother or spouse lose a priceless gift. We forever yearn to step in the footprints of your soul. ''I am the rest between two notes, which are somehow always in discord because Death's note wants to climb over-but in the dark interval, reconciled, they stay there trembling. And the song goes on, beautiful.'' CPEP Friends and Staff
        RIVES-Dr. Wendy. Bellevue Hospital Center and its Department of Psychiatry note the passing of Dr. Wendy Rives, attending physician & Director of the Comprehensive Psychiatric Emergency Program. We extend our condolences to her loved ones. Interment will be private. A memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to: Brain Tumor Foundation, C/O Patrick Kelly, M.D., 530 First Ave, Suite 8-R, New York, N.Y. 10016. We will miss you. Manuel Trujillo, M.D. Director of Psychiatry Kenneth Koval, MPA Assoc Executive Director and the Staff of the Department of Psychiatry
      