
        CRITCHLOW-Mary Ellen. Of Brooklyn Heights, NY, died on Tuesday, February 27, 2001, at NYU Medical Center in New York City after a brief illness. Born on October 27, 1947, in Saratoga Springs, NY, she was the daughter of Katharine B. Donnelly of Queensbury and the late John J. Donnelly. She was a 1969 graduate of the College of New Rochelle, after which she taught school at St. Gregory's School For Boys in the Albany area. In 1974 she received an M.A. in English Literature from Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., where she thereafter resided for the next six years, working for Haley, Bader & Potts, a communications law firm. In 1980 she was married to Charles H. Critchlow, a New York Attorney, and moved to Brooklyn Heights. During her two decades in Brooklyn Heights, Mrs. Critchlow was active in a number of community organizations including the Heights and Hill Community Council, a group serving the needs of Senior Citizens, where she served as President for several years and was a member of the Board. She was an active and sustaining member of the Junior League of Brooklyn and honored by them as Sustainer of the Year in 1997. She was a communicant at the Oratory Church of St. Boniface, where she taught Sunday School and, in more recent years, also attended services at Assumption Parish. Besides her mother and husband, Mrs. Critchlow is survived by two daughters, Katharine and Mary Elizabeth, both of Brooklyn Heights, and a brother, Frank N. Donnelly, his wife Karen and their sons John and Gregory, all of Atlanta, GA. A Mass of Christian Burial will be conducted at 10 AM on Monday, March 5, 2001, at St. Boniface on Duffield St, in Downtown Brooklyn. The wake will be held at the church on Sunday, March 4, from 7-9 PM. For further information please contact Jere J. Cronin Inc, 718-624-1398. Contributions in Mary Ellen Critchlow's memory may be made to Heights & Hill Community Council, 160 Montague St, Brooklyn, NY 11201 or to The Brain Tumor Foundation, 1350 Avenue of the Americas, Suite 1200, New York, New York 10019.
        CRITCHLOW-Mary Ellen. The Board of Directors and staff of Heights and Hill Community Council are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and colleague. Mary Ellen has been an outstanding Board member and steady guiding force for the past fourteen years, having served as President from 1993 to 1997. We will miss her quiet strength and her kind and nurturing spirit. Our deepest sympathy to Chuck, Katherine and Mary Liz. Patrick Owen Burns, President Judy Willig, Executive Director
        CRITCHLOW-Mary Ellen. Beautiful lady, wonderful friend. She will always be in our hearts. Andrew Melnick, Rae Koshetz, Elizabeth and Katherine
      