
        ALPERT-Helen Mills. Died March 9, 2001. Beloved and loving wife of William. Cherished mother of Peter and Dale, and Patricia and Stanley Stempler. Darling grandmother of Rebecca and Rachel, dear sister of Martin Mills, Stanley and Judy Mills, beloved aunt. Services Monday, March 12, at 11:30 AM, at Boulevard Riverside Chapels, 1450 Bway, Hewlett, NY. Burial following at Mr. Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY. Contributions may be made to the Library of the National Women's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Rousso Building, 1165 Morris Park Ave, Bronx, NY 10461.
        ALPERT-Helen Mills. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and its National Women's Division are deeply grieved at the passing of our beloved friend. A member of the Women's Division for more than four decades, she was a steadfast source of enthusiasm and inspiration, who served for many years as Vice-President of our National Board, and on the Executive Board of our New York Chapter. She also chaired the 1970 Spirit of Achievement Luncheon. She will be fondly remembered for her devotion to our ''Einstein: Women in the News'' newsletter from its inception in 1958, serving as Associate Editor from 1963-1972, Editorin-Chief from 1973-86, and an active member of the Editorial Board since then. Her warm support, keen mind and gentle spirit will be sorely missed. To her husband, William, and to the entire family, we send our heartfelt sympathy. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson, Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean National Women's Division Alice Kent, President Judy R. Rosenberg, Chairwoman, Executive Committee
        ALPERT-Helen. The Congregation of Temple Beth El of Cedarhurst records with sorrow the passing of our longtime member Helen Alpert. We express our sympathy to her husband William, her children, Trish and Stan, Peter and Dale, her grandchildren, Rebecca and Rachel, and her brother Stan and his wife Judy. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Richard Holland, President
      