
        LEVIN-Janice H. On March 23, 2001. Wife of the late Philip J. Levin. Loving mother of Catherine and Adam. Dear grandmother of Arielle Tepper, Matthew and Peter Levin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday, March 25, 2-5 and 7-9PM. Funeral service Monday 11:30AM. LEVIN-Janice H. Congregation Emanu-El of the city of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Janice H. Levin. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary LEVIN-Janice H. Peter Martins, Howard Solomon, Chairman; Robert I. Lipp, President; the Board of Directors, dancers and staff of New York City Ballet mourn the loss of their dear friend and colleague, Janice H. Levin. A woman of great character and taste, she brought enduring passion and vibrancy to the art and artists she nurtured throughout her life. Her enthusiastic commitment permitted many to be the best they could be. Her keen eye and lively interest in young people shaped the careers of many NYCB dancers. The Janice H. Levin Dancer Award, created in 2000, to recognize promising talent will always remind us of her vision and belief in the future. The wit, insight, and generosity that Janice unfailingly shared with us as a Director, supporter, friend and fan are irreplaceable and will be treasured always. At this time all of our thoughts and sympathy are with her family. LEVIN-Janice H. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the loss of a generous donor and longtime friend, Janice Levin. She supported the Museum devotedly as an Honorary Trustee and Benefactor, and was an invaluable contributor to the renovation of the 19th-century paintings galleries, providing a major grant toward their renovation and pledging important Impressionist works by Degas, Pissarro and Sisley. One of those galleries now bears her name. She was a passionate collector and a generous friend, and we will miss her intelligence and her spirited wit. We extend our condolences to her entire family. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director David E. McKinney, President LEVIN-Janice H. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art, note with sorrow the passing of their good friend, Janice Levin. With tremendous enthusiasm, an abiding interest, and constant generosiy, Janice championed the arts in myriad ways, from giving works to the Musuem's collections to supporting various programs and initiatives over the past four decades. Her foresight lead her to create a fellowship at MoMA to encourage the development of young scholars and curators. Her tremendous spirit and signature style will be sorely missed. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY LEVIN-Janice H. The School of American Ballet deeply mourns the death of our good friend, Janice Levin. The students, staff and faculty all join Chairman Albert Bellas, Chairman of Faculty Peter Martins, President Suzanne Davidson, and Executive Director Nathalie Gleboff in expressing their sympathies. Mrs. Levin was a long time Board Member and generous SAB benefactor who loved ballet and loved young people. She was a true individual-pithy, smart, glamorous, kind, no nonsense. Her scholarship recipients will never forget her and we all miss her tremendously. LEVIN-Janice. We are profoundly saddened by the passing of our esteemed client and friend, Janice Levin. She was a woman of great strength, integrity and compassion. Her decision to restore the old Paramount Building to its former glory is one that will be appreciated by all New Yorkers for decades to come. We extend our deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to her family and others who mourn her loss. Newmark & Co. Real Estate, Inc. LEVIN-Janice H. We are deeply saddened by the loss of a good friend, generous supporter and creator of the Janice and Philip Levin Music Center in Jaffa that has added so much to artistic life in Israel. Our sincere condolences to her family. America-Israel Cultural Foundation Vera Stern, President LEVIN-Janice H. The Trustees & staff of the International Center of Photography mourn the loss of Janice H. Levin, Honorary Trustee and long-time friend. Our deep sympathy to her family. Cornell Capa, Founding Dir Emeritus Willis Hartshorn, Director LEVIN-Janice. Our condolences to the entire Levin family on the passing of their beloved Janice. A truly remarkable and caring individual. Levien family
      