
        LEVIN-Janice H. On March 23, 2001. Wife of the late Philip J. Levin. Loving mother of Catherine and Adam. Dear grandmother of Arielle Tepper, Matthew and Peter Levin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday, March 25, 2-5 and 7-9PM. Funeral service Monday 11:30AM.
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Faculty, Staff and Trustees of NYU School of Medicine are saddened at the passing of Janice H. Levin, our dear friend, unfailing supporter and generous benefactor. For many years, Mrs. Levin enjoyed a special relationship with our physicians, staff, and above all, our students. Through the Janice H. Levin Student Scholarship Fund, many NYU medical students have received a world-class education that might otherwise have remained beyond their reach. Mrs. Levin also was a consistent supporter of research at NYU. She was named a Trustee in 1998-the culmination of her long and fruitful commitment to our institution. Janice Levin will be sorely missed. We offer heartfelt condolences to her family and loved ones. Robert M. Glickman, MD, Dean Kenneth Langone, Chairman Anthony M. Milano, MD Clinical Professor of Medicine NYU School of Medicine
        LEVIN-Janice H. Peter Martins, Howard Solomon, Chairman; Robert I. Lipp, President; the Board of Directors, dancers and staff of New York City Ballet mourn the loss of their dear friend and colleague, Janice H. Levin. A woman of great character and taste, she brought enduring passion and vibrancy to the art and artists she nurtured throughout her life. Her enthusiastic commitment permitted many to be the best they could be. Her keen eye and lively interest in young people shaped the careers of many NYCB dancers. The Janice H. Levin Dancer Award, created in 2000, to recognize promising talent will always remind us of her vision and belief in the future. The wit, insight, and generosity that Janice unfailingly shared with us as a Director, supporter, friend and fan are irreplaceable and will be treasured always. At this time all of our thoughts and sympathy are with her family.
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art, note with sorrow the passing of their good friend, Janice Levin. With tremendous enthusiasm, an abiding interest, and constant generosiy, Janice championed the arts in myriad ways, from giving works to the Musuem's collections to supporting various programs and initiatives over the past four decades. Her foresight lead her to create a fellowship at MoMA to encourage the development of young scholars and curators. Her tremendous spirit and signature style will be sorely missed. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Israel Education Fund of United Jewish Communities mourns the passing of Janice Levin and extends heartfelt condolences to the members of her family. Janice Levin, through the Philip and Janice Levin Foundation, has been a longtime supporter of the Israel Education Fund & the People of Israel. Terry M. Rubenstein President, Israel Education Fund Yitzchak Shavit Vice President, Israel Education Fund Diane Steinfink Program Director Israel Education Fund
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Tel Aviv Foundation and the city of Tel Aviv-Jaffa mourn with profound sorrow the passing of a great lady. The Janice H. and Phillip J. Levin Music Center in Jaffa established through the generosity of Janice Levin gives underprivileged children in the city the opportunity to learn music. Our heartfelt condolences go to her family, her children Adam and Catherine, and her grandchildren, Arielle, Matthew and Peter. Ron Huldai, Mayor, Tel Aviv-Jaffa Shlomo ''Chich'' Lahat, Former Mayor and Founding Chairman Ira D. Riklis, Chmn., Amer. Comm. Jeannie Gerzon, Exec. Director
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Rutgers community mourns the loss of our beloved benefactor, Janice Levin. Her generosity has benefited hundreds of students at the Mason Gross School of the Arts and the Schools of Law in Newark and Camden. We are proud that her name graces the building that houses our School of BusinessNew Brunswick. The Philip J. Levin Theater that memorializes her late husband reminds us of her deep commitment to the arts. We will miss her. Board of Governors, Board of Trustees, Board of Overseers Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
        LEVIN-Janice H. The School of American Ballet deeply mourns the death of our good friend, Janice Levin. The students, staff and faculty all join Chairman Albert Bellas, Chairman of Faculty Peter Martins, President Suzanne Davidson, and Executive Director Nathalie Gleboff in expressing their sympathies. Mrs. Levin was a long time Board Member and generous SAB benefactor who loved ballet and loved young people. She was a true individual-pithy, smart, glamorous, kind, no nonsense. Her scholarship recipients will never forget her and we all miss her tremendously.
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and the Israel Museum, Jerusalem are saddened by the death of Janice Levin, AFIM Board member and generous friend and supporter of many years. Our condolences to the entire Levin family. Maureen Cogan International Chairman Judy Steinhardt Board Co-Chairman, AFIM Barbara Lane, Pres, AFIM Carolyn Cohen, Exec. Dir., AFIM James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir., IM
        LEVIN-Janice. We are profoundly saddened by the passing of our esteemed client and friend, Janice Levin. She was a woman of great strength, integrity and compassion. Her decision to restore the old Paramount Building to its former glory is one that will be appreciated by all New Yorkers for decades to come. We extend our deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to her family and others who mourn her loss. Newmark & Co. Real Estate, Inc.
        LEVIN-Janice H. The American Friends of The Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, Board of Directors and staff extend our deepest condolences to the family of Janice H. Levin on her passing. She was a valued benefactor of our organization and a great patron of the arts. Zubin Mehta & Itzhak Perlman Co-Chairmen Herman S. Sandler, President Albert Schussler, Pres Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec Director
        LEVIN-Janice H. We mourn the passing of our dear and longtime friend, Janice Levin -a woman of rare grace and accomplishment. We shall miss her deeply. Our condolences and loving thoughts to her children and grandchildren. Karen B. and Arthur G. Cohen and Family
        LEVIN-Janice. Tobin + Parnes Design Enterprises, with profound sorrow, mourns the passing of Janice Levin. We extend our deepest sympathy to Mrs. Levin's family and to the Levin Management Corporation. Robert Parnes & Carol Tobin
        LEVIN-Janice H. Our condolences to the Levin family on the passing of Mrs. Janice H. Levin, a truly remarkable friend and humanitarian. The Partners and Staff at Skwiersky Alpert & Bressler, LLP
        LEVIN-Janice. Our condolences to the entire Levin family on the passing of their beloved Janice. A truly remarkable and caring individual. Levien family
        LEVIN-Janice H. We knew and worked with Janice Levin for over 30 years. We'll miss her sparkle and we'll miss the laughs. Lewis Ufland and David Jannes
      