
        QUICK-Leslie C. Jr., 75, on March 8, 2001, of North Palm Beach, FL and Aspen, CO, formerly of Laurel Hollow, NY. Wall Street visionary and philanthropist, founded Quick & Reilly, the first New York Stock Exchange member firm to offer discounted commissions to individuals and one of the nation's leading brokerage firms, expanding the business to include one of the largest specialist firms on the New York Stock Exchange, a major clearing and execution firm, and a NASDAQ market maker. An ebullient, dynamic and charismatic leader of the firm that bears his name, Mr. Quick was also highly esteemed for his philanthropy and leadership abilities in charitable, religious and civic causes. He was past Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Fairfield University and served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Alfred E. Smith Foundation; the Dana Farber Hospital in Boston; founder and member of the Board of Directors of The Inner City Scholarship Endowment Fund in New York City as well as board member of the Gregorian University in Rome, Italy. Additionally, Mr. Quick served as Chairman of the Board of St. Francis Heart Hospital and on the advisory council of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, TN. He was a Trustee of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories. Mr. Quick was a Knight of Malta, Knight of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem and a member of the Cardinal's Committee of the Laity of the Archdiocese of New York. Mr. Quick graduated from Pennsylvania Military College, now Widener University, in 1950, and served as Chairman of its Board of Trustees. Widener awarded him an honorary doctorate in business administration in 1990 in recognition of his many accomplishments and achievements. He also received an honorary Doctorate of Law from Fairfield University. He was patron of both St. John Chrysostom School in Manhattan and St. Anselm School located in the Bronx. Mr. Quick is survived by wife of 50 years, Regina, children Leslie III, Thomas, Peter, Christopher, Mary Pedersen, Nancy Gibson, and Patricia Quick, 24 grandchildren, and a brother, Herbert. He was predeceased by his grandson, Raymond Crile Quick. A Memorial Mass will be held at St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York City, on Monday, March 12, at 10am. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Leslie C. Quick Inner City Scholarship Endowment Fund, c/o Quick & Reilly, Inc., 26 Broadway, New York, NY 10004.
        QUICK-Leslie C. Jr. The Board of Governors, Administration and Staff of St. Francis Hospital-The Heart Center mourns the death of our dear friend and colleague, Leslie C. Quick, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Governors, St. Francis Hospital since 1995. Mr. Quick provided insightful counsel and motivational leadership in overseeing the daily operations of New York State's only cardiac specialty center. A member of the Board since 1987, he shared our pride in the hospitals accomplishments as a regional and national leader in cardiac care. His beneficence enables the hospital to perform more cardiac procedures than any other hospital in the state. As chairman of a 5-year capital campaign, Mr. Quick went beyond the targeted goal to achieve over $32 million dollars in support of new programs, technology and services to advance the hospitals mission. His legacy will live on as his efforts continue to save lives daily at St. Francis Hospital. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wonderful family, of whom he was justifiably so proud.
        QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. The trustees, faculty and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are deeply saddened at the passing of Leslie C. Quick, Jr. Mr. Quick was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Laboratory since 1998 and served on its Executive Committee. His vision, leadership and irrepressible enthusiasm were valued by everyone at Cold Spring Harbor. He will be greatly missed. To his wife, Jean, his family and his many friends, we express our deepest sympathy. William R. Miller, Chairman James D. Watson, President Bruce Stillman, Director W. Dillaway Ayres, Chief Operating Officer
        QUICK-Leslie C. The American Irish Historical Society mourns the death of its recent Gold Medalist, Leslie C. Quick, Jr. The Society salutes his leadership in business, devotion to family and exceptional generosity to those in need. Kevin M. Cahill, M.D. President-General
        QUICK-Leslie C. Jr. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire Quick family. A man whose generosity of spirit, love for life and family commitment were unparalleled. His example will live on forever. Jill, Bruce L. Goodman and family
      