
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. Beloved husband of Joan, devoted brother of Dr. Norman Javitt and Helen Smolen, loving father of Beth (Bob Chiger), Debra (Tim Fletcher), Bruce (Julie Sherman), and Donna (Donald Spector); cherished grandfather of Michele, Andrea, Jordan, Elliot, Robyn, Aaron, David, Daniel, Sara, Gary and David; brother-in-law, uncle, friend and respected business leader. Board member of Hebrew Hospital Home, Boys Town Jerusalem, Stern College Yeshiva University, JNF, Bronx Science Alumni Association, past president Appraisal Institute, MAI. Your generosity and devotion to religious, secular and professional organizations will help provide opportunities and improve the quality of life for generations to come. The example you set is an inspiration to us all and you will live in our hearts always.
        JAKUBOVITZ - Jerome. We mourn the loss of our longtime friend and colleague and extend to Joan and the entire family our deepest sympathy. Lewis Rudin and family
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a dear friend, an eminent real estate developer and leader of the Jewish community who served with distinction as a Board member of our Stern College for Women for over a decade. A YU Guardian with his wife, JoanVice President, National Board, of our Women's Organization-he established a scholarship at SCW in memory of his mother, Zara Jakubovitz Silver. He was a major supporter of psychiatric research at our Albert Einstein College of Medicine. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Joan; children, Beth (and Robert) Chiger, Debra (and Tim) Fletcher, Bruce (and Julie) Jakubovitz, and Donna (and Donald) Spector; grandchildren; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm President, Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren Chairman, YU Board of Trustees Marjorie Diener Blenden Chairman, SCW Board of Directors
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. The Yeshiva University Women's Organization mourns the passing of a dear friend, dedicated leader on behalf of Jewish education, and beloved husband of Joan Jakubovitz, vice president of our National Board. Through their enthusiastic leadership and support for YU and its students, Jerry and Joan together carried on the legacy of Mr. Jakubovitz's mother, Zara Jakubovitz Silver, a founding member of the Dormitory Committee, the precursor of YUWO, which provided basic necessities for the well-being of needy students during the early days of the University and its affiliated RIETS. We extend our most heartfelt sympathies to the entire family, especially to Joan and the children and grandchildren. Dinah Pinczower National Chairman of the Board, YUWO Harriet Muss, Maguy Naparstek, Gabrielle Propp National Presidium, YUWO
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our dedicated member, Jerome Jakubovitz, a Kohen who stood tall in his service to the Jewish people. Our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Joan, Sisterhood Honorary Chairman of the Board & past president; children, Donna and Donald, Synagogue members, Beth and Bob, Debra and Tim, Bruce and Julie; granddaughter, Michele, gifted teacher in our Early Childhood Program and the entire family. Funeral services, Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67 St., Friday, March 9, 11:30AM. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. The staff of Jerome Haims Realty mourn the loss of our friend and mentor Jerome Jakubovitz. Jerry's contribution to the real estate appraisal community and the Appraisal Institute was tremendous, but his personal guidance and friendship will be most missed. Jerry inspired a whole generation of New York's real estate professionals with his hard work and achievements. He also was a patient teacher who shared his own vast knowledge of real estate and this city, and in that role enriched our lives. We will miss his stories and his counsel. We extend our deepest sympathy to Jerry's family and share with them warm remembrances always.
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. The Board of Directors of the Hebrew Hospital Home mourns the loss of our beloved Director ''Jerry'' who served on the Board since 1981 and who chaired our Annual Dinner and Journal. Jerry also served as a member of our Finance Committee and was President of the Hebrew Hospital Home of Westchester. Our hearts and prayers are with his dear wife Joan and his children Bruce, Beth, Donna and Debora. Arnold Goldstein, Chairman David A. Spector, Chairman Emeritus Mary Frances Barrett, CEO
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome. Goldberg Weprin & Ustin LLP mourns the passing of our longtime client and valued business associate. As an appraiser, Jerry added dignity and honor to the letters ''MAI''. As a businessman, Jerry's real estate acumen was unmatched. His generosity of spirit and his commitment to Jewish and other worthwhile causes were without measure. His friendship will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to his beloved wife, Joan, and his entire family on their tragic loss.
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome. Our dear friend for many years, Jerry provided us with advice on business, real estate, race horses and fine dining during lunch at the Morris Park Luncheonette. His magnanimous heart and generous spirit for Boys Town, The Hebrew Home and his many other charities will forever remain as a source of inspiration. We share the grief of his loss with his beloved wife and our friend, Joan, and with his children and their families. Sheila and Mark Scharfman
        JAKUBOVITZ - Jerome. Sister hood of Park East Synagogue with deep sorrow mourns the passing of the husband of our beloved Honorary Chairman of the Board and past president, Joan Jakubovitz. As a pillar of our Synagogue together with Joan, Jerome's passing will leave a great void in the Park East community. Heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Maguy Naparstek, President Beverly Greenberg, Chairman
        JAKUBOVITZ - Jerome. The Greater New York Board of Jewish National Fund mourns the passing of its esteemed board member Jerome Jakubovitz. His wisdom and guidance reflected his dedication to the land and the people of Israel. Our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Joan, his devoted children, and cherished grandchildren. We will miss him. Rita H. Salseld, President Greater New York Zone
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome. Norman Buchbinder family, Eugene Warren family and the entire staff of Buchbinder and Warren, extend our heartfelt condolences to the Jakubovitz family on their loss in the sudden passing of Jerry Jakubovitz, a dear friend and associate of many years; Jerry was all the more beloved to us because of his Runyan-esque character and joie de vivre.
        JAKUBOVITZ - Jerome. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the brother of its esteemed member, Dr. Norman Javitt, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, David Yagoda, Chairman, Dr. William Schwartz, President
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and its affiliates mourn the passing of the beloved brother of their devoted member Dr. Norman Javitt. We extend heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Chaim Edelstein, President
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. A very special man who was my dear friend and mentor for over 60 years. Heartfelt condolences to Joan, Norman, and the family. Marty Berger
      