
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art, note with sorrow the passing of their good friend, Janice Levin. With tremendous enthusiasm, an abiding interest, and constant generosiy, Janice championed the arts in myriad ways, from giving works to the Musuem's collections to supporting various programs and initiatives over the past four decades. Her foresight lead her to create a fellowship at MoMA to encourage the development of young scholars and curators. Her tremendous spirit and signature style will be sorely missed. Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        LEVIN-Janice H. A vibrant and warm-hearted supporter of the Friends of Art and Preservation in Embassies, she endowed a dazzling sculpture garden at Winfield House, the resident of the American Ambassador to the Court of St. James, and dedicated it on a splendid, sunny day last October. We will miss her spirit, her humor, her generosity and her great enthusiasm for art and life. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Jo Carole Lauder, Chairman Ann Gund, President The Friends of Art and Preservation in Embassies
        LEVIN-Janice H. The School of American Ballet deeply mourns the death of our good friend, Janice Levin. The students, staff and faculty all join Chairman Albert Bellas, Chairman of Faculty Peter Martins, President Suzanne Davidson, and Executive Director Nathalie Gleboff in expressing their sympathies. Mrs. Levin was a long time Board Member and generous SAB benefactor who loved ballet and loved young people. She was a true individual-pithy, smart, glamorous, kind, no nonsense. Her scholarship recipients will never forget her and we all miss her tremendously.
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy mourns the passing of a devoted member of its Board of Directors, a faithful supporter, and a loving friend. Her love of Central Park, her involvement in its restoration, and her generosity were an inspiration to us all. We will miss her greatly and cherish her memory. We express our sincere condolences to her family at this difficult time. The Women's Committee Board of Directors Susan Rudin, President
        LEVIN-Janice. We are profoundly saddened by the passing of our esteemed client and friend, Janice Levin. She was a woman of great strength, integrity and compassion. Her decision to restore the old Paramount Building to its former glory is one that will be appreciated by all New Yorkers for decades to come. We extend our deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to her family and others who mourn her loss. Newmark & Co. Real Estate, Inc.
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the death of Janice Levin, a staunch advocate and supporter of the theater, who admired and took great pleasure in our productions and was a wonderful friend. We extend our condolences to her family. Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman Joan Cullman, Vice Chairman Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Exec. Producer
        LEVIN-Janice H. The American Friends of the Paris Opera and Ballet mourn the loss of longtime Trustee Janice Levin. Enthusiastic, loyal, generous and kind, she was a wonderful friend and will be greatly missed. Mary Sharp Cronson, Chairman Marina de Brantes, Vice Chairman Hal J. Witt, Director
        LEVIN-Janice H. We mourn the passing of our dear and longtime friend, Janice Levin -a woman of rare grace and accomplishment. We shall miss her deeply. Our condolences and loving thoughts to her children and grandchildren. Karen B. and Arthur G. Cohen and Family
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Trustees and staff of Guild Hall of East Hampton deeply mourn the loss of our good friend and benefactor, Janice Levin. Our sympathy to her family. Ruth Appelhof, Executive Director
        LEVIN-Janice H. It's a shame you could not have seen the warm tributes about the meaningful contributions you made. You proved one person can make a difference. I will miss you. Muriel Siebert
        LEVIN-Janice. Our condolences to the entire Levin family on the passing of their beloved Janice. A truly remarkable and caring individual. Levien family
      