
        ISAACSON-H. Harding Colonel. Died February 26, 2001, in Lenox Hill Hospital, Manhattan, in his 80th year. The New York Society of Military and Naval Officers wishes to express its deepest sympathy for the loss of our Quartermaster, Col. H. Harding Isaacson, who gave his utmost in the service of his country during WWII and as an active member of the military and veteran community within New York State up to the day of his death. Col. Isaacson distinguished himself in WWII flying 30 missions over occupied France and Germany in a heavy bombardment group that was awarded the Croix de Guerre by the French government after the war period. After being discharged from the Army Air Corps in 1945, Col. Isaacson continued his military career in the US Air Force Reserves, where he served for 5 years, and the New York State Guard where he served as an officer for many years in the 9th Regiment. Some of his most serious contributions to the military and veteran community in New York State were made as a colonel in the Veteran Corp of Artillary of the State of New York, which is the honor guard of the Governer of New York, and as commander of his American Legion Post in Sayville, Long Island. Col. Isaacson received numerous federal, state and foreign military medals and awards throughout his extensive military career. Col. Isaacson is survived by his lovely wife Janet, one nephew and two nieces. To them The New York Society of Military and Naval Officers extend our deepest sympathies. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, March 8, 2001, at 2pm at The Episcopal Church of the Heavenly Rest, corner of East 90th St and 5th Ave, Manhattan. May the soul of this brave and beloved soldier rest in peace. Major Daniel King, President Col. Jerome Richard, Treasurer
        ISAACSON-H. Harding. The Veteran Corps of Artillery, State of New York, records with sorrow the passing of our friend and commrade Colonel H. Harding Isaacson on February 26, 2001. We extend deepest sympathy to Janet and their family. MG John E. Connelly III Commandant
      