
        JACOBSON-Rosalind (nee Buchler), ''Mrs. J,'' on March 16, 2001. She was 94. Beloved mother of Alvin and Anita Jacobson. Grandmother of Seth, Debra, Fran, Beth and Lois. Great-grandmother of Daniel, Jack and Jenna Columbini, Alex, Samantha and Rebecca Deckert, Jessica, Max and Gabrela Jacobson, Jacob and Benjamin Raff. Mrs. Jacobson was the founder of the Jay Company, the largest trimming company in the world. She was the former President of the Nathan Straus Jewish Center in the Bronx. She was well known for her major philanthropic contributions to the Gan Yavne Youth Village, Boys Town of Jerusalem, Western Wall Tunnels, Furnace Woods School playground, First Hebrew Congregation of Peekskill Library, Mogen David Ambulances and numerous other charities. Services will be held at 11 AM, Sunday, March 18, 2001, at First Hebrew Congregation of Peekskill on Route 6. Family will receive friends at 230 Croton Avenue, Cortlandt Manor, on March 18 through March 22, from 6 PM on. In lieu of flowers, please make contributions in her memory to any worthwhile charity of your choice, will be appreciated. For information contact Hellman Memorial Chapels, 845-356-8600.
        JACOBSON-Rosalind. A true woman of valor. The extraordinary, even legendary, ''Miss J,'' in the business world, was ''Mother Rachel'' to a generation of youth in the Gan Yavne Youth Village in Israel. These children have been raised in her spirit, residing in the dormitory dedicated in her late husband's, Louis Jacobson, memory and building their lives in her exemplary spirit. She was a pioneer in the business world, founding the famed Jay Company, Notions and Novelties, Inc. Her son Alvin, and later her grandson Seth, continued to build on her foundation. She was a true community leader, becoming President of the Nathan Straus Jewish Center-the first female to occupy such a position. She was honored with the Citation of Honor at the 1987 dinner of the Educational Centers in Israel of the Rabbinical Council of America for her extraordinary generosity. Years later, her son Alvin and his wife Anita were honored as well with the Generation to Generation Award as the family undertook to assist in the next stage of development-the Residence Center of the Gan Yavne Technical College. ''Roz'' will ever be remembered and loved by the youth of Gan Yavne and Israel. Rabbi Hersh M. Galinsky, Director General Rabbi Morris Gorelik, Chairman, Educational Committee Rabbi Kenneth Hain, President, Rabbinical Council of America Rabbi Steven M. Dworken, Executive V.P., Rabbinical Council of America
      