
        ROSENTHAL-William. Educator, veteran, Hall of Famer. Of Pompano Beach, FL, and Becket, MA, died on March 23, 2001, in Natick, MA. He was 86. Dr. Rosenthal was Assistant Director of Health and Physical Education for the City of New York Board of Education from 1960 to 1972, an officer in the US Army during WWII, retiring with the rank of Lieutenant Colonel in 1974, and a member of the National Soccer Hall of Fame, inducted in 1972. Born in Chicago and raised in NYC, he was graduated from James Monroe High School, where he was elected to the Alumni Sports Hall of Fame, and received his bachelor's degree in 1935 from the City College of New York, where he was on the soccer, lacrosse and boxing teams. In 1936, he received his master's degree in education from New York University, and in 1954 his doctorate in education there. Dr. Rosenthal began his teaching career at Bronx Vocational High School, moved on to DeWitt Clinton High School, and, after passing his chairman's exam, to Christopher Columbus High School. He was well known for the coaching courses he ran to assist young teachers as they prepared for their chairman's exam. All of his career ''Bill'' was an active member of the National Intercollegiate Soccer Officials Association, refereeing as many as seven games a week, and served as president of the Association in 1967. He was for many years the executive director of the Association of Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance Exhibitors Association. He was presented the Silver Beaver award from the Boy Scouts of America. Since his retirement in 1972, he guest lectured to aspring physical education specialists in Singapore, Sweden and Israel, and was an adjunct professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Married to the late Frieda Allen Rosenthal, of Gloversville, NY, for 56 years, Dr. Rosenthal is survived by his daughter-in-law Marjorie Rosenthal of Needham, MA, his son Steven Rosenthal, his daughter-in-law Ruth Rosenthal, his granddaughters Caren and Debra Rosenthal, all of Natick, MA, and his brother Albert Rosenthal of Plainview, NY. The funeral will be Monday, March 26, 2001, at 2:15 PM, at Star of David Funeral Home, North Lauderdale, FL. Shiva will be observed Monday and Tuesday at 111 Briny Ave, Apt 2002, Pompano Beach, FL. Remainder of shiva at 12 Mark St, Natick, MA. A memorial service will be held this summer in Becket, MA. Donations in Bill's memory may be made to the ''Friends of the Becket Ambulance,'' 557 Main St, Becket, MA 01223.
      