
        LEON-Joseph. Age 82, actor and writer, died peacefully March 25, 2001 in Bradenton, Florida, surrounded by friends and loved ones. He was a resident of Saugerties, NY and wintered in Florida, and longtime Woodstock, NY area resident. He is survived by his companion of many years, Robin Litton, a sister Florence Tanenblatt of Delray Beach, Florida and a brother, Cantor David Leon of El Paso, Texas. He is also survived by several nieces and nephews. He was predeceased by two sisters, Anita Arroyo of Panama and Rose Shein of Florida. Joseph was born June 8, 1918 in New York City, the son of the late Morris and Bessie Leon. He enjoyed a successful career on Broadway and in films and television which spanned sixty years. In 1977, while understudy to the lead upon the death of Zero Mostel, he assumed the title role in Arnold Wesker's ''The Merchant'' which ran on Broadway after a successful preNew York tour. Among his credits of thirty New York productions he was seen in ''Bell, Book and Candle'', ''Glengarry Glen Ross'', ''Social Security'', and ''Cafe Crown''. Movie appearances include ''Vice Squad'', ''The Sweet Smell of Success'', ''Brewster's Millions'', ''Arthur on the Rocks'', and ''Daniel'', among many others. During the 1970's and 1980's, he was the voice-over spokesman for hundreds of radio and television commercials. He was also a Professor of Drama at Hofstra University 1966-1972. In 1989 upon his retirement, he moved to Aixen-Provence, France where he studied French and received le Diplome from Universite' Marseille d'Aix-en-Provence. While living there, he began his new career as a writer. His short stories have been published in ''Yellow Silk, II''. In October 2000, he was awarded First Prize in a national competition by the Eaton Literary Agency for his autobiography, ''Beneath the Tallis''. Memorial services will be held in the near future on Anna Maria Island, Florida, Woodstock, New York and Aix-en-Provence. Contributions in his memory may be made to Maverick Concerts, PO Box 102, Woodstock, NY 12498, The University Museum Endowment Fund, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, Sutton Hall, Indiana, PA. 15705, or the Actor's Fund, 729 Seventh Ave, New York, NY 10019.
      