
        BERNICK-Paul. On March 5, 2001. Cherished husband of Adrian. Beloved father of Joan, Elizabeth, & Deborah. Stepfather of Stephanie and Joseph. Brother of Mary. Loving grandfather of David, Adam, Joshua, Dina, Alexander, Samuel, Noah, Sara, Luke & Zoe. Services at Gramercy Chapels, at 11:30 Thursday. Interment is at New Montefiore Cemetery.
        BERNICK-Paul I. The Officers, staff and members of American ORT deeply mourn the passing of Paul I. Bernick, Executive Director Emeritus of American ORT. Paul served as American ORT Executive Director from 1952-1981, when he retired to become a consultant both to World ORT and American ORT. He was also Director of World ORT's New York office from 1955-1980. Paul served as a consultant for ORT schools and programs in France, Iran, Israel, Italy, Morocco, Switzerland and Tunisia, and was Chief Coordinator for a number of projects sponsored by USAID in African nations. A member of the Board of The Forward Association, he also served on the Executive Committee of the Jewish Labor Committee and was a member of the Executive Committee and Chairman of the Board of the American Council of Voluntary Agencies for Foreign Service (now InterAction). Until his last days, Paul came to work at the American ORT office and was truly beloved by his lay and professional colleagues of every generation. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Adrian Mann, who formerly served American ORT as Director of Administration and Interim Executive Vice President; three daughters, Joan Kopman, Dr. Elizabeth Bernick, and Deborah Bernick Mishra; two stepchildren, Stephanie Lovison and Joseph Mandese; a sister, Mary Belfrage; and ten grandchildren. Funeral services will be held Thursday, March 8th, 11:30 AM, at Gramercy Chapel, 152 Second Avenue, NYC. Robert L. Sill, President Joe Cohen, First VP Brian J. Strum, Exec. VP Paul Borman, Past Pres. Alvin L. Gray, Past Pres. Murray Koppelman, Past Pres. Michael R. Stoler, Past Pres.
        BERNICK-Paul. Women's American ORT Kehilla in mourning the passing of Paul Bernick, Executive Director Emeritus of American ORT. As a vital member of the worldwide ORT community, he helped to shape both American ORT and World ORT through the second half of the twentieth century. The members of WAO are grateful for his guidance and activism in making ORT what it is today. Our deepest sympathy goes out to his wife, Adriane, and their children and grandchildren. Pepi Dunay, President Carol Linch, First VP Alice Herman, Executive Director
      