
        de LESSEPS-Tauni, 86, SculptorPainter. A resident of Palm Beach, Florida, a well-known international artist, died Saturday, March 24, 2001, at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. A Paris-born Countess, Tauni de Lesseps, was the granddaughter of Ferdinand de Lesseps, the famous engineer and designer of the Suez and Panama canals. She was the daughter of the late Jacques de Lesseps, a much decorated French aviator & war hero and Grace Mackenzie de Lesseps. Her sculpture and paintings cover a wide field, both in subject matter and media, and appear in many distinguished collections, embassies, banks, firms, museums and private clubs around the world. She conducted many ''one-man'' shows of her work in the best galleries of New York, Florida, Rome, Florence, Vienna and Old San Juan, Puerto Rico in the 1960's and 1970's. She has three bronzes in the White House and her work is included in the collection of the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington, D.C. She is included in the Dictionary of International Biography and Who's Who in American Art. Countess de Lesseps was invested as Dame of Justice of the Order of the Knights of Malta for her work as a cofounder of the original clinic for rehabilitation of the disfigured in New York. She was a consultant to the National Art Museum of Sport and was honored as a Presidential Councillor of Cornell University. She was a member of the River Club in New York, the Everglades Club in Palm Beach, Florida, the Round Hill Club and Indian Harbor Yacht Club in Greenwich. She is survived by Lt. General Fletcher C. Booker, of Palm Beach and Tequesta, Florida, one son Michael de Lesseps, of South Freeport, Maine, one sister, Ki Ki Hicks, of Vancouver, Canada, two grandsons and two stepdaughters. A memorial service in Palm Beach, Florida will be scheduled at a later date. Donations may be made in her memory to the Alpha Omega Charitable Foundation, Inc., a nonprofit Florida corporation to benefit her favorite charities and projects, P.O. Box 3475, West Palm Beach, Florida 33402-3475.
      