
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Janice H. Levin, a longtime friend and dedicated supporter. Through her generosity and a lifetime of community service, she has left an indelible mark on UJA-Federaton and other Jewish organizations worldwide. To her children, Catherine and Adam; her grandchildren, Arielle Tepper and Matthew and Peter Levin; and to the entire family, we extend our sincerest condolences. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        LEVIN-Janice H. The Board of Trustees of the Central Park Conservancy is deeply saddened by the death of fellow Board member, Janice Levin, who was also a member of the Board of the Women's Committee. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Levin family. Janice will be remembered by hundreds of families in present and future generations for her dedication to the playground near Fifth Avenue and 76 St, named in honor of her late son, James Michael Levin. We all mourn Janice's passing, and will miss her grace, style, and passion for the Park. A.J.C. Smith, Chairman
        LEVIN-Janice H. She turned our vision of caring for the elderly into a reality. She encouraged us to create for them a home that is filled with caring, comfort, dignity and love. Her spirit, enthusiasm and the inspiration of her kind generosity will be greatly missed by all of us at the Central New Jersey Jewish Home for the Aged. We extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to her family. The Board of Directors of the Central New Jersey Jewish Home and The Auxiliary
        LEVIN-Janice. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of our member Janice Levin. We extend our deepest condolences to her children and grandchildren. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        LEVIN-Janice H. We extend our deepest sympathies to the Levin family on the passing of Janice. Singer Family
      