
        JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jerome R. Jakubovitz, a cherished friend who inspired others through his generosity and commitment. Mr. Jakuboviz and his beloved wife, Joan, expressed their deep devotion to Israel and the Jewish people through their extraordinary support of UJA-Federation, through our Real Estate Division and the Joan & Jerome R. Jakubovitz Foundation. We extend our sincerest condolences to Joan; to Mr. Jakubovitz's son, Bruce, and his wife, Julie; his three daughters and their husbands: Beth and Bob; Donna and Donald; and Debra and Tim; his 11 grandchildren; and his entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Andrew J. Singer, Chair, Real Estate Division Leonard A. Wilf, Vice Chair, Real Estate Division Harvey Schulweis, Chair, Planned Giving & Endowments JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of our esteemed Board member, generous supporter and cherished member of our extended family. Rabbi Yochanan Ben Zakai instructed five of his disciples to go out into the world and determine the best attribute a person should strive to develop within himself. One said, to have a good eye; another, to be a good friend; another, to be a good neighbor; another, looking to the future; another, a good heart. Their wise teacher responded that having a good heart encompassed all the other traits. Jerry Jakubovitz had a good heart and was a role model par excellence for his family and friends. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his beloved Joan and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Michael J. Scharf, President Raphael Benaroya, Chairman Josh S. Weston, Honorary Chair Rabbi Ronald Gray, Exec VP JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. The staff of Jerome Haims Realty mourn the loss of our friend and mentor Jerome Jakubovitz. Jerry's contribution to the real estate appraisal community and the Appraisal Institute was tremendous, but his personal guidance and friendship will be most missed. Jerry inspired a whole generation of New York's real estate professionals with his hard work and achievements. He also was a patient teacher who shared his own vast knowledge of real estate and this city, and in that role enriched our lives. We will miss his stories and his counsel. We extend our deepest sympathy to Jerry's family and share with them warm remembrances always. JAKUBOVITZ - Jerome. The Greater New York Board of Jewish National Fund mourns the passing of its esteemed board member Jerome Jakubovitz. His wisdom and guidance reflected his dedication to the land and the people of Israel. Our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Joan, his devoted children, and cherished grandchildren. We will miss him. Rita H. Salfeld, President Greater New York Zone JAKUBOVITZ - Jerome. Upper East Side Hatzolah mourns the passing of our supporter and beloved husband of Joan, devoted chairperson of our Hatzolah campaign at Park East Synagogue. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire bereaved family. David W. Shipper Andrew M. Shipper Coordinators
      