
        HAMPTON-Philip M., who lived in New York City until 1996, former vice chairman of Bankers Trust Company, died on April 20, 2001 in Naples, Florida where he maintained a home. The cause of death was cancer. He was 68 years old. Mr. Hampton was born in Whittier, California and grew up in the Columbus, Ohio area. He graduated from Bexley High School in Bexley, Ohio and in 1954 earned a BA degree from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. In 1965, he was awarded a degree in graduate banking studies from Stonier School of Banking at Rutgers University. In 1954 Mr. Hampton joined Bankers Trust Company in New York City. Over the next 35 years, he rose through the ranks from assistant treasurer to senior vice president and head of the US Banking Department in 1978. He held senior positions in marketing, operations, and strategic planning before becoming head of worldwide banking and investment activities. He was vice chairman and a director of Bankers Trust Company and Bankers Trust New York Corporation at his retirement in 1989. Upon Mr. Hampton's retirement the chairman's message stated: ''The loss is great for the company. What we have been able to accomplish simply would not have been possible without the standards that Phil set for commitment to our goals and collegial style.'' After retiring from Bankers Trust, Mr. Hampton became chairman of Metzler Corporation, the US affiliate of the German private bank, H. Metzler Seel, Sohn & Co. He joined R.H. Arnold & Co. in 1997. He has served as director of a number of corporations including Bibb Co., Hemasure, and Tyco International Ltd. His professional affiliations included directorships of the Empire State Chamber of Commerce and the New York State Bankers Association. He was a village trustee of Croton-on-Hudson, NY. Mr. Hampton retained a strong interest in his alma mater, Miami University of Ohio. For the last 25 years, Mr. Hampton has been a trustee of Carnegie Hall and a director of the New York Pops where he was chairman in 1997. Mr. Hampton is survived by his wife of 29 years Elaina Frutiger Hampton, and two sons, Mark L. Hampton of Durham, NC and John Andrew Hampton, USN, of Virginia Beach, VA. Their mother Jean Trout Hampton died in 1971. There are three grandchildren. Two sisters also survive him, Lucy H. Sohm of Scarsdale, NY and Linda H. McWhinney of Santa Fe, New Mexico. Though Mr. Hampton lived most of his adult life in New York City and Westchester County, he maintained ties with relatives in Ohio and in the Richmond, Indiana area, site of the Hampton family farm, as well as with boyhood and high school friends. A long time friend said, ''Phil Hampton has been known during his entire life for loyalty, superb judgment, good humor, and integrity.'' In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to the New York Pops at 881 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019. A memorial service will be held at a later date in the N.Y. area.
        HAMPTON-Philip M. The Board of Directors, musicians, and staff of The New York Pops, Skitch Henderson, Founder and Music Director, mourn the loss of longtime board member and former chairman, Philip M. Hampton. A staunch and generous supporter of the orchestra and its special place in the cultural life of the City of New York, he played a major role in the growth and expansion of The New York Pops. As chairman, he nurtured our board and staff and guided the development of our education programs and concert activity at Carnegie Hall and throughout the city. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Elaina and his family. Philip Hampton was a good friend and colleague. He will be remembered for his genuine spirit, inspired leadership, and enthusiasm for music. He was loved by all and we will miss him. The New York Pops Skitch Henderson, Founder and Music Director John M. Jacobs, Chairman Ruth Henderson, President James M. Johnson, Executive Director
        HAMPTON-Philip. The Board and staff of Carnegie Hall deeply mourn the passing of esteemed collegue, friend, and trustee Philip Hampton. We will greatly miss his enthusiasm for music and his generosity of spirit, which were reflected in his extraordinary devotion to Carnegie Hall and its mission. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his loving and supportive wife, Elaina, and to the entire Hampton family. Isaac Stern, President Sanford I. Weill, Chairman
      