
        MAGOWAN-Doris Merrill. On April 3, 2001 at her home in New York after a brief illness. Daughter of Charles E. Merrill and Elizabeth Church Merrill. Sister of Charles E. Merrill Jr. and the late James Ingram Merrill. Mother of Robin, Merrill, Peter, Stephen and Mark. Funeral services will be held Saturday at Grace Cathedral, San Francisco, CA. at 4PM. In lieu of flowers the family requests that donations be made to the Dune Church, Southampton, N.Y. 11968.
        MAGOWAN-Doris Merrill. The Officers and Chapter of the Priory in The United States of America of The Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Mrs. Robert A. Magowan, our friend and confrere. At her death, Doris was a member of the Priory Chapter, and she was a Life Governor of The American Society of The Order of St. John. She became a member of the Order in 1974, and was promoted to the rank of Dame in 1982 in recognition of her support of the St. John Eye Hospital in Jerusalem. She was particularly instrumental in obtaining contributions for the Hospital's Ophthalmic Nurse Training Program. Her dignity, warmth, and generosity were extraordinary, and she will be missed by all who knew her. We extend our deepest sympathy to her brothers Merrill and Charles, and to her sons, grandchildren, and great grandchildren. John R. Drexel IV, Prior Corbin R. Miller, Chancellor Don W. Lundquist, Secretary
        MAGOWAN-Doris Merrill. The Trustees of St. Andrew's Dune Church mourn the departure of our Trustee Emeritus & sustaining benefactor of six decades. Doris joined in and continued the extraordinary generosity of her father, who helped rebuild the Dune Church following the Great Hurricane of 1938 and of her husband who led the Dune Church to sound financial condition in the three decades following World War II. Her faithful attendance, countless suggestions, numerous anonymous improvements and the glorious Magowan Memorial Garden will forever grace the Dune Church and the Southampton Community. We thank God for the gift of knowing her, serving with her, and for the peace that is finally hers. The Trustees of St. Andrew's Dune Church, Southampton, N.Y.
        MAGOWAN-Doris Merrill. Your love, kindness and understanding will never be forgotten. You shall always have a special place in my heart. Kenneth Work
      