
        SHAFER-Dr. Donald M. A noted vitreoretinal surgeon, educator, clinical scientist and leader in the field of ophthalmology, died on April 4, 2001 at the age of 89. He was a graduate of Columbia University Medical School and retired lieutenant colonel of the US Army Medical Corps. During his illustrious career, he made numerous clinical and scientific contributions to the subspecialty of vitreoretinal surgical diseases. A gifted surgeon and teacher, he will be remembered most for his innovative work on the detection of findings indicative of retinal tears and detachments, known as ''Shafer's Sign.'' Above all, his pioneering work in vitreoretinal surgery set the stage for further developments leading to technological advances which made it posssible to remove and replace the vitreous in order to repair complex retinal detachments. He was equally prominent as a teacher and administrator. An elite corps of trainees represent a new generation of vitreoretinal surgeons who have already distinguished themselves within the diagnostics and management of vitreoretinal diseases. Each will remember Don as a teacher with wisdom, wit and warmth. As an administrator, he served as surgeon director and president of the medical board at the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital for more than 3 decades, and he was chairman and professor of the department of ophthalmology at Cornell University Medical School for more than 11 years. He leaves a legacy of numerous clinical and scientific publications which led to international admiration, esteem and prestigious awards such as the Lucien Howe Prize from the New York Medical Society and the Pocklington Memorial Lectureship in London. As a result of his distinguished work, he was a member of the most elite vitreoretinal societies, including the Jules Gonin Club and the American Retinal Society. A former Westport, Connecticut resident, he spent the latter part of his life living in Dunedin Isles, Florida, where he lived with Ann Brady, his wife of 63 years. He is also survived by his two daughters, Susan of Westport and Nancy DeVries of Baltimore, and three grandchildren. Donations in his memory may be made to: The Macula Foundation, Inc., Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital 210 East 64th Street, New York, New York 10021
      