
        GWIRTZMAN - Burton. Died peacefully on April 14 from lung cancer at age 75. A true friend to literally thousands with whom he has maintained loving contact throughout his lifetime. A man of the highest integrity, loyalty and humanity. He served bravely as a medic in World War II, he worked with his beloved dad in the garment industry; opened his own brokerage firm as a successful and trusted investment counselor; ultimately became Vice President at Paine Webber. Chosen by the N.Y Rangers to raise the 1994 Stanley Cup banner at Madison Square Garden after six decades of dedication to the team. Selected by the N.Y. Giants for induction into the NFL Fans Hall of Fame as the all-time premier Giant's fan. He had a passion for fresh water fishing. Adored his wife of 15 years, Sarina, who he proclaimed made his last 15 years his best. Also survived by his brother, Arthur, and the innumerable grateful friends and relatives whose lives he touched with a unique gentleness and wisdom, He made a indelible impact that will always be treasured. Services to be held Wednesday, April 18, at 1:30 PM at Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 E. 79 St. Contributions in his memory may be made to cancer research or to the Woodie Wheaton Land Trust, Forest City, Me. 04413
        GWIRTZMAN-Burton. Everybody who knew Burt knew him to be a kind and generous man, but only those of us who knew Burt and Sarina together knew that they were made for each other. Our greatest hope is that Sarina, our niece and cousin, can find comfort in the fact that she was part of one of the great marriages. Aunt Sylvia and Uncle Lew Sara and Mort
        GWIRTZMAN - Burton. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Sarina, and their loved ones. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, Co-Pres. Michael H. Laufer, Co-Pres.
        GWIRTZMAN-Burton. April 14, 2001. We regretfully mourn the passing of our beloved friend and colleague. UBS Paine Webber
        GWIRTZMAN-Burton. We will always love you and miss you. Your loving Kee Wah bunkmates, Bob Tartell and Sidney Gottlieb
      