
        KLEIN-Esther. A great matriarch has died too young on a fortnight and some before her 105th birthday. Beloved & adored mother, sister, grandmother, great-grandmother, aunt, cousin and friend. Daughter of Rascha & Velvel Ohsie, born April 28, 1896, in Vilna, Lithuania. She was predeceased by her beloved husband of 49 years, Irving Klein. Cherished mother of Shirley Shapiro and Leona Kern, Harris Shapiro and Ralph Kern. Adoring grandmother of Elaine Appellof, Beth and James Steele, Bill Kern and Mariye Inouye, Mariane and Bennett Borko, Franklin and Julie Kern, Diane and Bari Shamas, and her beloved surviving sister Lillian Rosen. A greatgrandmother giving unconditional love to Rachel, Ellie, Sarah, Jacob, Emily, Seth, Allison Melanie, Adam, Raphi and Irene. Esther's radiant smile, the sound of her laughter and her boundless love and affection will be forever in all of our hearts and minds. Services: Friday, April 13th at 11:45 A.M., at Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue & 76th Street, Manhattan.
        KLEIN-Esther. The partners of London Terrace Gardens soulfully acknowledge the passing of Esther Klein, the grand dame of our company, at 104 years old. We send our condolences to her children Shirley and Harris, Leona and Ralph, and her grandchildren Elaine, Beth and James, Diane and Bari, Bill, Frank and Julie, Marianne and Bennett, and her too many to name great grandchildren. As the last of the first generation of our extended family, she will be greatly missed. The Partners of London Terrace Gardens
        KLEIN-Esther. After a long and wonderful life, Esther Klein has passed away leaving a void for those fortunate enough to have known her, but more importantly, leaving a lasting legacy of love and treasured memories for her family and friends. We count ourselves among those many friends and express profound sympathy to Mrs. Klein's family and her extended family in the London Terrace group. The Partners & Staff of H. J. Behrman & Company, LLP
        KLEIN-Esther. Loving grandmother, friend and neighbor; she loved life, for 104 years she took the good with the bad, thanked God every day for her good fortune, prayed for us all every day, and appreciated every drop of life given to her. Bill Kern and Mariye Inouye
        KLEIN-Esther. She gave her love and care to family, friend, employee and stranger alike and never expected anything in return. Her life was a gift and we can never thank her enough. Frank, Julie, Melanie and Adam Kern
        KLEIN-Esther. A great lady, Amen. Love to the Shapiro and Kern families. Rascha (Good Jerry)
      