
        FAGENSON-Bertram F. Dearly beloved husband of Josephine for 64 years; loving father of Toby and Robert; devoted grandfather of Stephanie & Jennifer. Services are today, Thursday, at 1 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 81st St. and Madison Ave. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to New York Services for the Handicapped, 853 Broadway, NY 10003.
        FAGENSON-Bertram F. We could not have asked for a more loving and caring father. As a member of the New York Stock Exchange for sixty-nine years, you truly lived by its credo, ''Your word is your bond,'' setting an example for everyone you touched. You taught us lessons we will never forget. Toby & Jane, Margaret & Robbie
        FAGENSON-Bertram F. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Bertram F. Fagenson, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who loved him be comforted. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        FAGENSON-Bertram F. The Board of Governors and members of the Elberon Bathing Club mourn the passing of Bert Fagenson, our longtime member, friend and father of our club president. His warm smile and sense of humor will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Ellen Winik, Vice President Jane Guadagno, Secretary
        FAGENSON-Bertram. The Board of Governors & members of Elberon Bathing Club note with sorrow the passing of their esteemed member, Bertram Fagenson. We extend to his wife, Josephine, and his son, Robert, President of Elberon Bathing Club, our deepest sympathy. Ellen Winik, Vice President Jane Guadagno, Secretary
        FAGENSON-Bertram. Business partners on Wall Street for many years, but good dear friends for so many more. We remember Bert with great affection and extend our sincere sympathy to Josephine, Robert, Toby and the entire Fagenson family. Mimi and Jerry Frankel
        FAGENSON-Bertram. The Frankel family is deeply saddened by the loss of our longtime friend Bert Fagenson, and we extend heartfelt sympathy to Josephine, Robert, Toby, Margaret, Jane, Stephanie and Jennifer Evy, Paul and Justin
      