
        FRIBOURG-Michel. P. Beloved husband of Mary Ann, father of Robert - Effie, Paul - Josebeth, Charles-Celine Fribourg, NadineJerrold Newman and Caroline-Jon Rosen. Grandfather of 13. Michel P. Fribourg passed away April 10. We love you and will miss you forever. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to a charity of your choice. Services Thursday, April 12, 2 PM at Temple EmanuEl, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
        FRIBOURG-Michel. The Board and staff of the French Institute Alliance Francaise mourn the passing of Michel Fribourg. Through his leadership, his wisdom, and his compasssion, Michel inspired all of us at FIAF in our mission to foster intercultural understanding between the French and American people. He had a profound impact on the organization's history. A dedicated Trustee for 48 years, Michel Fribourg joined the Board of the Alliance Francaise in 1953 and served as its Chairman from 1963 to 1972, when he helped spearhead its merger with the French Institute. FIAF was honored to award Michel its Pilier d'Or in 1996 in recognition of his extraordinary commitment. Michel's life beautifully evoked the words of G. Bouchet, La vraie noblesse s'acquiert en vivant, et non pas en naissant. (True nobility is achieved in living, not by birth). We extend our deep condolences to Michel's wife Mary Ann, to his sons Robert, Paul, and Charles, to his daughters Nadine Newman and Caroline Rosen, and to all his family and friends. John H.F. Haskell, Jr., President Board of Trustees David S. Black, Executive Director
        FRIBOURG-Michel P. American Friends of The Hebrew University deeply mourns the passing of Michel Fribourg, Benefactor of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Through the Fribourg Foundation, he and his wife Mary Ann have given generously to the Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Environmental Quality Sciences. The Fribourg Building at the Faculty houses the Departments of Agricultural Botany, Biochemistry and Human Nutrition and the Animal Nutrition Section of the Animal Sciences Department, by which it fills the central role in facilitating education of students of Agriculture and of Nutritional and Domestic Science. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Mary Ann, his children Paul and Josebeth Fribourg, Robert and Effie Fribourg, Charles and Celine Fribourg, Nadine and Jerrold Newman, Caroline and Jon Rosen, and the entire family. American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        FRIBOURG-Michel. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Michel Fribourg, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. Mr. Fribourg earned the enormous admiration and respect of our entire community for his exceptional generosity and leadership on behalf of Jewish and other humanitarian organizations in New York and throughout the world. His extraordinary contributions will be felt for generations to come. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Mary Ann; to his children, Paul, Charles, Robert, Caroline, and Nadine; to his 13 grandchildren; and to his entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Chair of the Board & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        FRIBOURG-Michel. I mourn the passing of a gentle man & convey my deepest sorrow to his family. His regard for scholarship and culture created the opportunity, through the Alliance Francaise, for a young student with no resources but boundless dreams to attend the University of Paris & see his dreams come true. I am today the Michel Fribourg Professor of European Studies at NYU; of all the titles I hold, that is the one that means the most to me. The person who creates opportunity for those with little hope is surely blessed forever. L. Jay Oliva, President New York University
        FRIBOURG-Michel. Our heartfelt condolences go to our esteemed Committee member, Mary Ann Fribourg, and her family on the loss of her husband, Michel. The Executive Committee of the Lying-In Hospital New York Weill Cornell Medical Center Ruth Stanton, Chair Iris Cantor, Vice Chair Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology New York Weill Cornell Medical Center Frank Chervenak, M.D. Chairman and Obstetrician and Gynecologist-In-Chief
        FRIBOURG-Michel. The New York University community mourns the loss of Michel Fribourg. A titan of international business and philanthropy, he was a great supporter of scholarship programs that have helped hundreds of students gain quality education. We at NYU have benefitted greatly from his generosity and commitment. We share the grief of our friend and colleague, Paul, a trustee of this institution. The Fribourg family is in our thoughts at this sad time. L. Jay Oliva, President, NYU Martin Lipton, Chairman NYU Board of Trustees
        FRIBOURG-Michel. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the death of Michel Fribourg, Chairman Emeritus of ContiGroup Cos., Inc. Michel was our client and beloved friend for more than 40 years. His joyful personality and sincere interest in all of those with whom he worked will be greatly missed. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife Mary Ann, his sons Paul, Robert and Charles, his daughters Nadine Newman and Caroline Rosen, and to all other members of the family.
        FRIBOURG-Michel. The Members of The Advisory Board and Faculty of The Center For French Civilization and Culture of New York University, deeply mourn the passing of Michel Fribourg, whose devotion to, and support of The Center and of La Maison Francaise, for over forty years, have been an inspiration. To his wife, Mary Ann, his sons and daughters, and other members of his family, we express our heartfelt sympathy. Thomas Bishop New York University
        FRIBOURG-Michel. The Board and Staff of Young Audiences/ New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Michel Fribourg, husband of long-time Board member Mary Ann Fribourg. On behalf of the New York City students, teachers and families we serve, we honor his memory. His wisdom, generosity and integrity will never be forgotten. Our condolences and thoughts go to Mrs. Fribourg and her family. The Board of Directors and Staff of Young Audiences/New York
        FRIBOURG-Michel. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Nightingale-Bamford School express profound sorrow at the death of Michel Fribourg, devoted Nightingale alumnae parent and grandparent, husband of former Trustee Mary Ann, and father of current Trustee Paul. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Fribourg family. Grant F. Winthrop, President Board of Trustees Dorothy A. Hutcheson, Head of School
        FRIBOURG - Michel. Tuesday, April 10, 2001. Loving and caring grandfather. You will be forever in our hearts and minds. You touched us all in a way that can and will never be forgotten. We are fortunate to have known you and are better people because of it. All our love, Nicholas, Alexandra, Rebecca, Deborah, Jordana, Matthew, Michael, Suzanne, Alexander, Daniel, Jason, Scott, Elliot.
        FRIBOURG-Michel. We extend our sympathy to the family of Michel Fribourg, especially Paul J. Fribourg, Vice President of the Browning School Board of Trustees. We also note the commitment and generosity of the Fribourg family for many generations to independent education. James S. Chanos, President Stephen M. Clement III, Headmaster
        FRIBOURG-Michel. The American Friends of the Alliance Israelite Universelle mourn the passing of our longtime Board Member and friend, and extends its heartfelt sympathy to his family. Albert Sibony, President Norman S. Benzaquen, Chairman Henriette Beilis, Hon. President Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb, Honorary Chairman
        FRIBOURG-Michel. The Board and Staff of Young Audiences express our profound sympathies to our devoted Board Member, Mary Ann Fribourg and her family on the death of her beloved husband, Michel. He was a remarkable man and a dear friend and he will be greatly missed. The Board of Directors and Staff of Young Audiences,Inc.
      