
        SMITH-Esther, 77. Died on April 4 after a long and valiant fight with cancer. Lifetime fighter for social justice, Yiddish Scholar, Union Organizer, leader in Stuyvesant Town anti-discrimination fight, V.P. Women's Division American Jewish Congress, Director Medical Committee for Human Rights (medical arm civil rights movement), Director Committee of Responsibility (providing medical care for war injured Vietnamese children) Assistant to President, Health and Hospital Corporation, Activist in Democratic Party, member Democratic National Committee, Associate Director Post Graduate Center for Mental Health, founding member U.S./Israel Women to Women. Daughter of Isadore and Rose Frank (deceased). Esther's spirit will be treasured in the love of her: husband for 57 years David Smith, her sister Eleanor Tilson, her daughters Karen and Abby, grandson Jesse, granddaughter Sonja, son-in-law Maarten, and nephews Mark, Andrew & Daniel. Esther's example of leadership made her an early feminist role model. Her courage and tenacity to stand firmly for social justice will remain as her inspirational legacy. A memorial will be held in the near future.
        SMITH-Esther. The Board of Directors of the NORC Supportive Services Center extends its deep condolences to our Chairman, David Smith and to their daughters Karen and Abby, grandson Jesse and family on the death of their beloved wife, mother and grandmother. We will surely miss her wonderful spirit. Nat Yalowitz, President Ed Yaker, Vice President
        SMITH-Esther. The Board of Directors of Penn South Social Services offers its loving condolences to our Chairman, David Smith, daughters Karen and Abby, grandson Jesse and family on the death of their loving wife, mom and grandma. She was a fighter for peace and human rights and we shall greatly miss her. Nat Yalowitz, President Priscilla Burns, Secretary
        SMITH-Esther. The Board of Directors of Mutual Assisted Senior Housing (MASH) deeply mourns the loss of our President David Smith's loving wife. To their children, Karen and Abby, grandson Jesse and family, we share your loss. She stood for the best in all of us. Kenneth Wray, EVP Nat Yalowitz, Sec/Treas.
        SMITH-Esther. It is with deep sorrow that we express our condolences on the passing of Esther Smith on April 4, 2001 after a prolonged illness. She was the loving wife of David Smith, former Penn South President and Chairman Emeritus, and a fighter for social justice. Penn South Board of Directors
      