
        HAZAN-Isaac M. (Freddie). Of Lawrence, New York. Beloved husband of the late Lillie. Devoted father of Aaron, Victor, Larry, and the late Michael. Father-inlaw of Pearl, Donna, Susan, and Maxine. Adored grandfather of Fred S. and Glynnis Hazan, Leslie Hazan, Louis and Joyce Hazan, Freddie A. and Hillari Hazan, Matthew Hazan, Lori and Kenny Bergman, Ricki Hazan, Heather and Andy Heller, and Lainie Hazan. Loving great grandfather of Michael M., Spencer, Jordan, Aaron M., Alex, Marni, Perri, Victor J., Jesse and Daisy. Survived by brother Solomon M. Hazan, sisterin-law Susan & sister Bella Albala. Pop, you were very special to all your family and friends. We will miss you, but always honor your memory. Services today Wednesday 11:30, Boulevard-Riverside Chapel, Hewlett, New York.
        HAZAN-Freddie. The Sephardic Temple, Congregation Emeth VeShalom of Cedarhurst, NY and the Sisterhood of the Sephardic Temple, record with deep regret the passing of Freddie Hazan, Past President of the Congregation, who served as President from 1967-69. A Founder of the Congregation, he served as the first Gabbai from the Temple's inception till becoming President. The Temple Ark and Eternal Light are the benefaction of his family. His dedication to the Sephardic Community world wide was exemplary. At Moshav Tzur Moshe in Israel he founded the Lillie Hazan Memorial Library and the Michael Hazan Center for Computer Science. Dedicated trustee of Holocaust survivors' property in Castoria, Greece, he successfully used the proceeds to establish the Shaco Society House in Tel Aviv and the Shaco Senior Home in Netanya, Israel. Recognized for many years as the elder statesman of The Sephardic Temple he served as a symbol of the grandeur and aristocracy of the Balkan Sephardic tradition. We recall the memory of his late wife Lillie Hazan, his oldest son Michael and his brother Victor M. Hazan. Warmest condolences to his children, Maxine, Pearl & Aaron, Donna & Victor, Susan & Larry, and his many grandchildren and great grandchildren, his sister Bella Albala and brother Sol M. Hazan. Funeral services Wednesday, April 25 at Boulevard Chapel, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, NY. May the family be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Arnold B. Marans Hazzan David Abikzer Joseph Camhi, President Isaac J. Russo Chairman of the Board Estelle Ezratty, Sisterhood President
        HAZAN-Freddie. It is with heartfelt sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed colleague, one of the founders of The Sephardic Home and a generous benefactor. He was a proud member of the Sephardic community. A dedicated philanthropist who was loved and respected by all. He will be sorely missed. We recall the memory of his late wife, Lillie Hazan, his oldest son Michael, and his brother Victor M. Hazan. Warmest condolences to his children Maxine, Pearl and Aaron, Donna and Victor, Susan and Larry, his grandchildren and great grandchildren, his sister Bella Albala, a resident of The Sephardic Home, and brother Sol M. Hazan. Officers and Board of Directors of The Sephardic Home & LASHA Robert A. Cohen, President Ralph J. Kamhi, Chair of Bd Ira Rousso, VP Michael New, Executive Director Marion Crespi, President, LASHA Reggie Goldberg, Chair of Bd, LASHA
        HAZAN-Isaac ''Freddie''. We sadly mourn the loss of a very dear friend of the Crespi family. Freddie, as he was known to us, was very much loved and respected by all of us. We extend our condolences to his beautiful boys, daughters-in-law, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Their family ties are very unique in these days of such indifference. He will surely be missed by all of us. Love from all of the Crespis Marion Crespi Elissa & Neil Crespi Robbie, Michael & Mara Sheryl Waldman & Eli Blit Michele & Greg Ronnie & Bruce Geller Melissa & Robyn Ara & Lonni
        HAZAN-Fred. The members and Officers of the New York Skirt and Sportswear Association, Inc. record with deep sorrow the passing of Fred Hazan, an outstanding leader in our industry & a devoted Officer and Director of the Association for many years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family.
        HAZAN-Isaac (Freddie). We offer our deepest condolences to the families of our beloved friend, Freddie Hazan. He has been a part of our lives for more than forty years. We shall miss him. Helen and Seymour Berkowitz and Family
      