
        COHEN-Seymour J. Rabbi, Ph.D., died at home on April 9, 2001 after a long illness. Beloved husband for 55 years of Naomi Greenberg Cohen. Loving father of Grace (Ira) Grossman, Marc (Laura Leon) Cohen & Dr. Leeber (Elizabeth Jacob) Cohen. Cherished grandfather of Dov and Ari Grossman, Michelle, Susan, Stephen and Jonathan Cohen, fond brother of Eugene J. (Ada) Cohen, Phyllis Marcus and the late Mickey (Paula) Cohen. Caring uncle to many nieces & nephews. Born in New York in 1922, he earned a BS at CCNY in 1942, was ordained at the Jewish Theological Seminary in 1946, and earned a Ph.D. in Economics at the University of Pittsburgh in 1953. He studied at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and worked with Holocaust survivors in Italy and France. Rabbi of the Patchogue (NY) Jewish Community Center, B'nai Israel, Pittsburgh, and Anshe Emet Synagogue, Chicago. He led many Jewish organizations. He served as President of the Rabbinical Assembly of America, was President of the Synagogue Council of America and chaired the American Jewish Conference on Soviet Jewry. In 1965, he led the first Eternal Light Vigil for Soviet Jewry in Washington, DC. He taught Human Relations at the University of Pittsburgh, was a visiting professor of Judaism at St. Mary of the Lake Seminary in Chicago and was co-chair of the Interreligious Committee against Poverty. Author of numerous volumes, through his translations he opened up to English readers the genre of medieval Jewish ethical literature. Graveside services will be held in New York on Wednesday at Union Field cemetery at 2PM. Shiva will be in New York after Passover. Contributions may be made to the Jewish Theological Seminary Library.
        COHEN-Rabbi Seymour J. We record with profound sadness the passing of our beloved and esteemed past president (1980-82). Throughout a long and distinguished career in the rabbinate, Rabbi Cohen was president of the Synagogue Council of America and Chicago Board of Rabbis. He served congregations in Long Island and Pittsburgh before assuming one of the major pulpits in the Conservative Movement, the Anshe Emet Synagogue in Chicago in 1961 from which he became rabbi emeritus in 1992. Rabbi Cohen held a Ph.D. from the University of Pittsburgh and was the author of numerous books including ''How to be a Jew''. He was known for his consummate preaching, rich and diverse knowledge, and keen wit. During his many decades of volunteer service to the Rabbinical Assembly, Rabbi Cohen was always concerned with the welfare and well being of his colleagues. We express our deepest condolences to his wife, Naomi, children, Grace Grossman, Marc, and Leeber, siblings, Phyllis Marcus and Rabbi Eugene Cohen and to all who were touched through his rabbinate. Rabbi Vernon H. Kurtz, President. Rabbi Joel H. Meyers, Exec. V.P. The Rabbinical Assembly
      