
        KLEINER-Rose. Died at home with her family on April 14, 2001, in Los Altos Hills, CA. Loving and beloved wife of Eugene Kleiner for 54 years, mother of Robert Kleiner and Lisa Kleiner Chanoff, grandmother of Jake Kleiner and Yael, Talia and Eli Chanoff, and sister of Bruno Wassertheil. Rose was born in 1925 in Katowice, Poland. In the fall of 1939 her family set out across the Atlantic for the New York World's Fair. While they were en route, Germany invaded Poland, and Rose and her family were suddenly emigres. They settled in Manhattan. Rose graduated from Brooklyn College in 1946, and served as a social worker at Quaker House. In 1947 Rose married Eugene Kleiner, an engineering student at Polytechnic University and also an emigre from Europe. In 1952 their first child, Robert, was born. In 1956 the family moved to California where Eugene was one of a group assembled by Willliam Schockley to produce the transistor. In 1959 their second child, Lisa, was born. Rose put her lifelong passion for social work on hold to devote her considerable energy and talent to raising her family. She created a house of abundance, filled with delicious food, music, laughter and fun. She sang in madrigal and jazz singing groups, and moved two pianos into her living room to play duets with her daughter Lisa. At age 49, after raising her two children, Rose returned to school and earned a master's degree in gerontology at Berkeley's School of Social Welfare. She became the first program director of the Senior Coordinating Council's Senior Day Health program. In 1982, Rose founded Older Adults Care Management (OACM), a pioneer in designing support plans, training companions, and providing support services for the elderly. Rose merged OACM with The Goldman Institute in 2000. As a community leader, Rose was a thoughtful and unstoppable force for good. She served on the boards of El Camino Hospital Foundation, the Career Action Center, the International Tremor Foundation, The Parkinson's Institute, Respite & Research for Alzheimer's Disease, the U.C. Berkeley Center for Aging Research, the International Longevity Center and the Goldman Institute, and was a member of the Citizen's Advisory Committee at Duke University Council on Aging & Human Development and of the Geriatric Advisory Council of Mt. Sinai Medical Center, NY. She was honored with a Woman of Vision award from the Career Action Center, an Athena award from the Palo Alto Chamber of Commerce, and the Adele Elkind award from the National Association of Professional Geriatric Care Managers. In 1988 she received a Lifetime of Achievement Award from the Senior Coordinating Council of Palo Alto. Rose was a positive thinking woman of action. She was enormously generous with gifts, spirit and love. She loved to take care of people and to make them happy. She always found the good in people and situations, and never spoke badly about another human being. She was wise, innovative, had a great sense of humor, a great sense of style and was completely original. She loved life and was adored by her family, friends and colleagues. She was and will continue to be an inspiration to everyone who knew her. ''I have always tried not to complain,'' Rose once said, ''but to see what I can do about something, to embrace life no matter what it brings.'' We celebrate her memory. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the International Longevity Center, 60 E. 86th St, NYC 10028, or the charity of your choice.
      