
        LANGBAUM-Eric. Suddenly and peacefully on April 16 at age 59. Adored husband and best friend of Lee (Sherman). Loving and devoted father of Samantha Beinhacker and Theodora (Teddi) Hunter and father-in-law of Avi Beinhacker and Edward (Ted) Hunter. Cherished ''Pop'' of Max Beinhacker and Ethan Hunter. Beloved son of Shae Langbaum and the late Theodore Langbaum, brother of Roberta and Joseph Hellman and son-in-law of Harold and Diane Sherman. He will also be greatly missed by his nephew James Hellman, and cousins Leah, Lenora, Sevan and Kyle Lapidus. A passionate and gifted man who loved his family, his friends, his work and life. Services will be held at Wien & Wien, 402 Park Street, Hackensack, New Jersey at 10 AM on Thursday, April 19.
        LANGBAUM-Eric. The Board and Staff of JBFCS acknowledge with great sadness and shock the death of Eric Langbaum, a JBFCS Trustee. Eric came to the Agency through our merger with the Pride of Judea-an outstanding provider of mental health services in Queens. He and his wife Lee, and her parents Diane and Harold Sherman, have been devoted supporters of the Pride for many years and now of JBFCS as a whole. Eric was extremely committed to improving the lives of children and families. We extend our sincere condolances to Lee, to Harold and Diane, Eric's daughters Teddy and Samantha, sons-in-law and grandchildren. He will be greatly missed. Seymour R. Askin, Jr., Chairman of the Board Joseph S. Kaplan, President Alan B. Siskind, Phd., EVP, CEO
        LANGBAUM-Eric. The Divisional Committee members of the Pride of Judea Mental Health Center of Douglaston, Queens, a program of JBFCS, express profound sorrow on the sudden passing of its esteemed member Eric Langbaum. His friendship and generosity to the Pride will not be forgotten. His love of life and family was shared so fully with his dear wife Lee, daughters Samantha & Theodora, their husbands and children as well as his loving in-laws, Harold and Diana Sherman. Our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Jeffrey C. Bernstein, Chairman Paula Held Sharf, Director
        LANGBAUM-Eric. Beloved Seeds of Peace Board and Executive Committee Member whose dedication to teaching tolerance taught all of us how to make this a better world. From the moment you first met our youngsters you embraced their cause, their desire to escape from endless cycles of violence, and committed yourself to working constantly on their behalf. Your patience, wisdom and kindness will be sorely missed, but your guidance has enriched us all. In loving memory, John Wallach, the Board of Directors and the Children of Seeds of Peace
        LANGBAUM-Eric. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors, and Members, deeply mourn the untimely passing of their fellow member, Mr. Eric Langbaum, and offer their deepest sympathy to his wife, Lee, his children and the entire Langbaum family. Alpine Country Club Harvey Nagin, President
      