
        INGALLS-George L. George Lewis Ingalls, 86, of Binghamton died Tuesday afternoon, April 10, 2001 at Our Lady of Lourdes hospital. Mr. Ingalls is survived by his wife of 58 years Dorothy Joggerst Ingalls, Binghamton; three sons and daughters in law, Bryan W. and Jane Ingalls, Chevy Chase, MD, Robert G. Ingalls, Binghamton, John S. and Kate Ingalls, Rancho Santa Fe, CA. A daughter and sonin-law, Janet Ingalls VanDine and Robert W. VanDine, Binghamton; eight grandchildren, Lennea, Robert, Dorothy and Ellen VanDine; Ryan and Georgia Ingalls, John and Caroline Ingalls; two brothers, James E. and June Ingalls, Sebring, FL., Ralph C. Ingalls, Brooklyn, CT.; a sister Ellen Ingalls Gausch, Manchester, MO. Mr. Ingalls was born in Danielson, CT. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Amherst College in 1935 and Magna Cum Laude graduate of Syracuse University College of Law in 1939. He was associated with the Binghamton Law Firm of Keenan, Harrison and Coughlin, became a partner in 1946 and at the time of his death was of counsel to the firm's succesor, Coughlin and Gerhart. Mr. Ingalls, who practiced law in Binghamton for 50 years, was Republican Majority Leader of the New York State Assembly from 1961-1964 and Minority Leader in 1965. After retiring from the NYS Assembly in 1966, he was appointed to the NYS Power Authority in 1967. Mr. Ingalls was the longest serving trustee in its history and was NYPA's Vice-Chairman until his retirement in 1990. He was chairman of the Broome County Republican Committee from 1975 to 1977. In September 1990, the trustee of the New York Power Authority designated the Blenheim-Gilboa Pumped Storage Power Project as the George L. Ingalls Pump-Generating Plant in honor of his long standing tenure as a trustee of the NY Power Authority. Mr. Ingalls was a member of the Binghamton Club and the Binghamton Country Club, where he took immense pleasure in hitting a golf ball long and straight. His presence on the golf course will be greatly missed. Funeral services will be held at the J.A. Mc Cormack Sons Funeral Home, 141 Main Street, Binghamton Saturday at 11 A.M. Rev. Msgr. James D. Kane, Pastor of Blessed Sacrament Church, Johnson City will officiate. Burial will be in Calvary Cemetery, Johnson City. The family will receive friends at the Mc Cormack Funeral Home on Friday from 5-8 P.M. In lieu of flowers, expressions of sympathy in memory of George may be made to Lourdes Hospital Foundation, 169 Riverside Drive, Binghamton, New York 13905 on any charitable organization.
      