
        NICHOLSON-William J., Ph.D. The Faculty and Staff of the Department of Community and Preventive Medicine mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague, William J. Nicholson, Ph.D., Professor Emeritus in Occupational and Environmental Medicine. Dr. Nicholson joined the faculty in 1969 at the request of Dr. Irving J. Selikoff to develop an asbestos exposure assessment unit for the Environmental Sciences Laboratory. A physicist by training with degrees from MIT and the Univ. of Washington, Dr. Nicholson created a quantitative approach to assessing asbestos exposure. His analysis of construction activity of the World Trade Center Towers led to studies of asbestos-related air pollution in lower Manhattan. His findings led to a ban on spraying of asbestos insulation in the city in 1971. The Environmental Protection Agency issued a national ban the following year. Dr. Nicholson's extensive research included projections of the magnitude of the asbestos epidemic and analysis of mortality rates of vinyl chloride-exposed workers and pressmen exposed to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. His work led to the development of asbestos exposure standards internationally and OSHA's 1986 regulations. An activist in public health, Dr. Nicholson will be remembered for his great contributions to protecting the health and safety of working men and women in America and around the world. Our heartfelt condolences go out to his companion, Valerie Josephson, his children, Jamie, Darcy and David. Philip J. Landrigan, MD, MSC Ethel H. Wise, Professor of Community and Preventive Medicine Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        NICHOLSON-William J., Ph.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the passing of our distinguished colleague, William J. Nicholson, Ph.D., Professor Emeritus in Occupational and Environmental Medicine. Dr. Nicholson joined the faculty in 1969 to develop an asbestos exposure assessment unit for the Environmental Sciences Laboratory. A physicist by training, he created a quantitative approach to assessing asbestos exposure. His studies of asbestos-related air pollution led to a ban on spraying of asbestos insulation in the city in 1971. Dr. Nicholson's extensive research included projections of the magnitude of the asbestos epidemic and analyis of mortality rates of vinyl chloride-exposed workers. His work led to the development of asbestos exposure standards internationally and OSHA's 1986 regulations. An activist in public health, Dr. Nicholson will be remembered for his great contributions to protecting the health and safety of working men and women nationally and internationally. Our condolences go out to his companion, Valerie Josephson, his children, Jamie, Darcy and David. Helene L. Kaplan, Chair, Arthur H. Rubenstein, MBBCh, Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine
      