
        MARCUS-Fred. On April 5th at age 90. Founder and Chairman, Fred Marcus Photography, Founding member Conservative Synagogue Adath Israel of Riverdale, & the Roth Center, Hanover, NH. A survivor of the Holocaust, throughout his life he triumphed over adversity through his deep faith and generous spirit. As a photographer for the past 60 years, he recorded on film the joyous occasions and memorable moments of countless lives. He will be remembered by all who knew him as a philanthropist, story teller, mentor and artist, and for his great sense of humor and his infectious smile. He will be deeply missed by his beloved wife of 55 years, Gerda, daughter, Evelyn, and son, Andrew. He was a loving father-in-law to Judi and devoted Opa to Brian and Stefani. Funeral service today, 10:30AM, at Conservative Synagogue Adath Israel.
        MARCUS-Fred. In loving memory of our dear friend and business associate who has been a part of our family's milestones for 50 years. Our deepest sympathy to his devoted and loving family: Wife, Gerda: son Andy, daughter-in-law Judi: daughter Evelyn and grandchildren, Brian and Stefanie. May you be remembered for all your good deeds and for the personification of the word Mensch. You will truly be missed by all those who knew and loved you. Larry and Elliot Atlas and Families Atlas Floral Decorators, Inc.
        MARCUS-Fred. It is with deep sorrow and much sadness that we mourn the passing of Fred Marcus, the imaginative, creative photographer and founder of Fred Marcus Studios. He was a father to all of us and made a great impact on all our lives. His inspirational legacy will continue to nurture us always. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. The Loving Staff of Fred Marcus Photography.
        MARCUS-Fred. For 25 years our families have been as one. Your memory and spirit will live on. We will sorely miss your gentle, loving and compassionate disposition. Charlotte, Mel, Ronnie, Hallie and Barri Rich
        MARCUS-Fred. His huge smile, soft hands, unimaginable charm truly touched our lives. We will miss and love him always. Brian and Stefani
      