
        SCHMIERER-Israel. It is with the deepest sense of loss for a highly recognized and devoted pediatrician that the Department of Pediatrics at Maimonides Medical Center acknowledges the passing of Israel Schmierer. Dr. Schmierer served as staff and consulting pediatrician and specialist in newborn care at Maimonides Medical Center for well over five decades. His devotion to patient care, clinical teaching and to the community served by Maimonides Medical Center was exemplary. He was a superb pediatrician for children here in Borough Park for his entire professional career. He was referred to often as the pediatrician's pediatrician. His love and support for the Department of Pediatrics is legendary and his name and contributions will continue to be recognized through the Department's Annual Israel Schmierer Lecture. To his family, the Department of Pediatrics sadly mourn his loss and wish them strength and courage in these days without him. Steven P. Shelov, M.D., M.S. Chairman, Dept. of Pediatrics Maimonides Medical Center
        SCHMIERER-Israel, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with deep sorrow the passing of Dr. Israel Schmierer. Dr. Schmierer was affiliated with the Department of Pediatrics at Maimonides for over fifty years. He was considered the ''Pediatrician of Boro Park,'' seeing generations of patients. He was involved in teaching and organized the Pediatric Lecture Series. He was also involved with the medical staff's annual dinner dance. He will be sorely missed by all his colleagues, patients and friends. Sincere condolences are extended to his family. Salvatore DeGliuomini, M.D., Pres. Steven Farber, M.D., Pres. Elect Herbert Lehman, M.D., Secretary Ira Mayer, M.D., Treasurer
        SCHMIERER-Israel L., M.D. The entire family of Maimonides Medical Center records with sadness the passing of Dr. Israel Schmierer, a gifted pediatrician, teacher and generous benefactor. He was an esteemed member of our medical staff for over 50 years and cared for hundreds of children spanning many generations. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. He will be remembered fondly. Martin D. Payson, Chairman Stanley Brezenoff, President
      