
        GROSSMAN-Sidney. With the deepest sense of loss, his devoted family announces the passing of our indomitable patriarch. For every day of his 86 years he lived life to the fullest, with unconditional love for his family, commitment to philanthropic causes and passion for all that is just and decent in the world. His playful sense of humor, breadth of interests and boundless energy rendered every day of his life an adventure. He will be profoundly missed by Bunny (Beatrice), his beloved wife of 62 years; his children Nancy, Judy and Steven, Gary and Lynn; his grandchildren Robert and Amy, Andrew and Alyson, Michael and Daniel; his great-grandchildren Adam and Julie; and his sister and soulmate Shirley. The Legend will live in our memories forever. Services on Monday, April 16, 2001 at 10:30 AM, Hewlett East Rockaway Jewish Center, 295 Main Street, East Rockaway.
        GROSSMAN-Sidney. Somewhere in the sky a club has a new ''owner,'' people have a new ''leader'' and worthy causes have a ''champion.'' His wonderful family and good friends have loving memories and feelings that will last forever. Ellen and Jay Korn
        GROSSMAN-Sidney. Our deepest sympathy to the family of our beloved brother-in-law the patriarch of our family Sidney was a giant amongst men and will be deeply missed by all. Sylvia & Jerry Jacobson & Family
        GROSSMAN-Sidney. We mourn the death of our dear friend. Our friendship dates back to our meeting Bunny and Sid on our honeymoons 62 years ago. Jeanette and Nat Chazen
        GROSSMAN - Sidney. Sidney dear-A dimension to our lives is forever gone. There will never be a finer or dearer friend than you were. We miss you already. Nancy and Hank Silverman
        GROSSMAN-Sidney. We treasure happy memories of our travels through the years with you and Bunny. Love, Ruth and Al
        GROSSMAN-Sidney. You were a true patriarch. Your legacy lives on in your beautiful family. Our deepest sympathies to them all. Susan, Jim, Michael, Julie, Andrew
      