
        MELZER-Asher O., 78 years. Died at home in Great Neck, NY April 1. Born in Germany, he fled to the US in 1936. For 22 years he served as director of Surprise Lake Camp. As the dean of American Jewish camping, he mentored hundreds of professionals and touched the lives of thousands of children with his compassion, integrity and devotion to the community. He is survived by his wife of 51 years Shirley Melzer, sister Claire Grossman, sons Bruce and Sandy, daughter Shira Adams, grandchildren Sarah and Harry Adams and Lilah & Daniel Melzer. Services are today at 12:45 PM, Riverside Nassau North Chapel, Great Neck. Donations can be made to Asher Melzer Scholarship Fund of Surprise Lake Camp, 307 7th Avenue, Suite 900, New York, New York 10001.
        MELZER-Asher. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Asher Melzer, a cherished colleague and dear friend who served as our director of Camping Services from 1976 until his retirement in 1993. While overseeing our network's day and residential camping programs, Mr. Melzer was deeply admired for helping a new generation of Jewish children develop pride in their religious and cultural heritage. Drawing on his success in New York, he helped establish an affiliated camp in Hungary for Jewish children throughout Eastern Europe. Before coming to UJA-Federation, Mr. Melzer was highly respected for his innovative programming as director of Surprise Lake Camp, a UJA-Federation beneficiary. For all of us who felt fortunate to have known him, he will always be remembered for his leadership, support, and unwavering commitment to our community. We extend our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Shirley; to his children, Sandy, Bruce, and Shira; to his grandchildren; and to his entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        MELZER-Asher. The Board of Directors and staff of Surprise Lake Camp mourn the loss of Asher Melzer, Director Emeritus and former Executive Director for 21 years. Asher touched all of our lives and the lives of thousands of young people. He was the Dean of Jewish Camping-dedicated heart and soul to our mission, a model of professionalism, an innovator, a mentor, and a dear friend. Our hearts are with his wife, Shirley, his children Bruce, Sandy, and Shira, and his grandchildren.
        MELZER-Asher. Asher's knowledge of the camping field was unsurpassed. He was a superb mentor in the role that the Jewish component played in the field. His was a quiet, friendly manner, effective in winning adherents to his side. As a pioneer, leader, teacher and friend, we shall sorely miss him. Our condolences to Shirley, Bruce, Sandy, Shira, their spouses and his grandchildren. The staff and Board of Berkshire Hills-Emanuel Camps
        MELZER-Asher. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President
      