
        LEVIN-Milton. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our devoted friend and honorary member of our Board of Overseers. A steadfast champion of our institution since its opening in 1955, he and his wife, Fanny, were among the first members of our Society of Founders and staunch supporters of our cancer research programs. For nearly a quarter of a century, he served as an esteemed member of our Board of Overseers. A University Guardian, he was a man of wisdom and wit, whose friendship and counsel will be sorely missed. To Mrs. Levin; to son, James; daughter, Gene Heller, and the entire family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Robert M. Beren, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        LEVIN-Milton. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of NY are deeply saddened by the passing of Milton Levin, a cherished friend and major supporter who touched thousands by his extraordinary generosity over a lifetime of giving. Mr. Levin was active in our Long Island Division and instilled a commitment to our mission and to ''tikkun olam'' in his children and grandchildren. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Fanny, and their children, James, and his wife, Emily, and Gene Heller; their grandchildren and great-grandchildren; and to Milton's sister, Helen Pollock. His contributions to the worldwide Jewish community will be felt for generations to come. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair Arthur M. Katz, LI Cabinet Chair John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Simon S. Kaminetsky, LI Regional Director
        LEVIN-Milton. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of Milton Levin, an esteemed member of our club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Fanny, his daughter Gene Heller, his son James Levin and the entire family. Martin Rosenman, President Mark Claster, Secretary
        LEVIN-Milton. The Board of Governors of The Palm Beach Country CLub expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Milton Levin, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary
      