
        NAGLE-Edward P. Was born in Manhattan, NY on February 5, 1913, but called Long Island his home for most of his life. He went to work in the mailrom of the NY Times in 1929. He then went on to work in Auditing where he supervised the Tabulating Department. He was a self-educated man, but early in his career his talents were recognized specifically with regard to his ''analytical nature, his ability to grasp the essence of a matter, and think clearly, and practically.'' During his tenure with the company, he worked as Systems Analyst in the Systems Department, and as the Manager of the General Accounting Department. He retired in 1970 as the Manager of Electronic Data Processing Services after 41 years of loyal service. Various letters, including ones from then President and Publisher, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, acknowledged Edward's many accomplishments and thanked him for his devoted service. Edward's most notable accomplishment was the service he provided the News Department in November 1956 in setting up and directing an IBM Election Night Innovation. The innovation allowed the NY Times to tabulate and publish the National Presidential Election results ahead of the Associated Press. He also played on the NY Times Baseball Team. Edward enlisted in the Navy and served his country from 1944-46 with pride during World War II. His skills with tabulating equipment made him a prime candidate to support the Navy in Special Services. Edward's professional and military accomplishments were many, but he was more than just a resume of job titles. He was deeply loved by all his surviving family, especially by his wonderfull wife, Margaret, to whom he was married for sixty-five years. His daughters, Margaret Drum, and Patricia Zanchelli, remember him for his many wonderful qualities including his incredible sense of fairness. To his nine grandchildren and nine great grandchildren, he was affectionately known as ''Poppie''. He shared much with them including the joys of sand dunes, tadpoles, fishing, and boating at his home in East Hampton, NY. He gave his grandchildren fonder memories of youth than a child could ask for. Edward passed away on March 29, 2001 after a long illness and was laid to rest with military honors at Calverton National Cemetery in New York. A New York Times colleague of his once wrote of him ''The Times is a considerably better company with you as one of their officials than they could ever be without you.'' To his family, the world was a considerably better place with him than without him and we are all far better people because he touched our lives. His memory lives on in the hearts of those who love him.
        NAGLE-Edward P. The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Edward P. Nagle, associated with The Times from 1929 to 1970.
      