
        SALTZMAN-Max. 0n February 26, 2001 in Los Angeles, California. Max's health had steadily declined for the last year and he died peacefully during the night. He is survived by his wife Barbara Fish, M.D., his son Mark and two grandchildren. Born on April 17th, 1917 in Brooklyn, NY, Max received his B.S. degree in chemistry from the College of the City of New York in 1936. During World War II, he was in civilian service with the Chemical Warfare Service. Following the war, Max joined the technical staff of Harmon Colors (later a part of Allied Chemical Corporation). From 1945 to 1961 he served in various research & development positions in the field of color pigments and color measurement. From 1961 to 1973 he held several management positions at the corporate headquarters of Allied. He retired as manager of color technology in 1973. He was also an Adjunct Professor for 20 years at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute's Color Measurement Laboratory. He was the co-author of the 1966 classic ''Principles of Color Technology'' (2nd Ed. 1981) which was recently updated by R. Berns. The book's philosophy reflected Max's penchant for quality control and common sense. After retirement Max was able to devote his full attentions to his passion for colorants and their history. His interest began during the early 1950 s while at Harmon Colors. He was often consulted on color and colorant issues by New York City museums such as the Museum of Natural History. In 1973, Max moved to Los Angeles and soon established a color laboratory in the Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics at the University of California at Los Angeles. Through this new laboratory, he performed research on ancient dyestuffs and the applications of color technology to art conservation science. A Fellow of the American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, he was asked to present the George L. Stout Memorial Lecture in 1984, one of their most prestigious honors. In 1986, he received the Macbeth Award from the Inter-Society Color Council for his pioneering research in dye identification of ancient textiles. The week before his death, the ISCC voted to give him the 2001 Godlove Award for his lifelong contributions to the field of color. He was also a member of the American Chemical Society, the American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists, the Society of Plastics Engineers, the Optical Society of America, the Society of Dyers and Colourists (U.K.), The Colour Group (Great Britain), the Dry Color Manufacturers Association, the Los Angeles Society for Coatings Technology, and the Federation of Societies for Paint Technology. In 1967, he received the Federation s Armin J. Bruning Award. In Max's memory, a fund has been established to support student research in art conservation science using color technology. Donations to this fund should be made out to Rochester Institute of Technology: Saltzman Fund & sent to Roy Berns, RIT Center for Imaging Science, 54 Lomb Memorial Drive, Rochester, New York 14623-5604.
      