
        FRIBOURG-Michel. On April 10, 2001. Beloved husband of Mary Ann. Devoted son of the late Jules and Lucienne. Cherished father of Caroline, Charles, Nadine, Paul, and Robert. Dear brother of Marcelle and Renee and the late Jacqueline. Beloved father-in-law of Babeth, Celine, Effie, Jerry and Jon. Also survived by thirteen grandchildren. Funeral services will be held at Temple Emanu-El (Main Sanctuary), 1 East 65th Street, New York, New York, on Thursday, April 12, 2001 at 2 PM. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that contributions be made to the charity of choice.
        FRIBOURG-Michel. P. Beloved husband of Mary Ann, father of Robert - Effie, Paul - Josebeth, Charles-Celine Fribourg, NadineJerrold Newman and Caroline-Jon Rosen. Grandfather of 13. Michel P. Fribourg passed away April 10. We love you and will miss you forever. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to a charity of your choice. Services Thursday, April 12, 2 PM at Temple EmanuEl, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
        FRIBOURG-Michel. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns Michel Fribourg, 1996 Appeal of Conscience Award recipient, a man of humility, vision and heart. To his wife Mary Ann, children Paul (Josebeth), our dedicated Trustee, Robert (Effie), Charles (Celine), Nadine and Jerrold Newman, Caroline and Jon Rosen and the entire family, our sincere condolences. Appeal of Conscience Foundation Rabbi Arthur Schneier, President Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. Archbiship Khajag Barsamian, Vice Presidents
        FRIBOURG-Michel. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the death of Michel Fribourg, Chairman Emeritus of ContiGroup Cos., Inc. Michel was our client and beloved friend for more than 40 years. His joyful personality and sincere interest in all of those with whom he worked will be greatly missed. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife Mary Ann, his sons Paul, Robert and Charles, his daughters Nadine Newman and Caroline Rosen, and to all other members of the family.
        FRIBOURG-Michel. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Michel Fribourg, beloved father of our devoted Trustee and Founder Paul Fribourg. To Mrs. Michel (Mary Ann) Fribourg, to Paul and Josebeth, their children, Deborah, Jordana, Rebecca, and Michael, and to the entire family our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst, Vice President Jack Rosen, Vice President
        FRIBOURG-Michel P. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Michael P. Fribourg. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        FRIBOURG-Michel. April 10, 2001. The employees of ContiGroup Companies, formerly Continental Grain, deeply mourn the loss of our esteemed Chairman Emeritus today in New York. We are greatly privileged to have had his leadership and inspiration during his long career with the Company. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire Fribourg family.
        FRIBOURG-Michel. Our heartfelt condolences go to our esteemed Board member Mary-Ann Fribourg and her family on the death of her husband, Michel Fribourg. He was a kind and distinguished gentleman, and a longtime friend of our founding members, Henry and Erna Leir. The Members of the Board of the Ridgefield Foundation
      