
        SCHEIDERMAN-Kenneth Benson, 54. Died Tuesday, April 17, 2001 at Baptist Medical CenterBeaches. He was a resident of St. Augustine, Florida, at the time of his death. Born in Summit, New Jersey on July 2, 1946, to Robert and Betty Scheiderman, Ken grew up in Green Village, New Jersey, graduating from Chatham High School in 1964. Ken then joined the U.S. Army and served tours of duty in Korea and Viet Nam as a topographic surveyor. He received his B.S. in geography from Arizona State University and served as a veteran's counselor in the Phoenix area. In 1978, Ken founded California College for Health Sciences in San Diego, CA. The results of his efforts are compelling: by the time of his retirement in 1996, California College had over 30,000 graduates around the world from 11 undergraduate and graduate programs, primarily through distance learning. During his career, Ken served on the Board of Trustees for the Distance Education and Training Council, as well as Vice Chair of the Accrediting Commission of the Distance Education and Training Council. He also served as a commissioner for the Accrediting Commission the ACCSCT and as Chair of the Advisory Committee of the American Council on Education's College Credit Recommendation Program. He received the honarary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from the University of St. Augustine for Health Sciences, the Distinguished Service Award from the Distance Education and Training Council and was inducted into the DETC Hall of Fame this month, all for his contributions to the highest ideals of distance education. Ken was also a yachting enthusiast both in San Diego and St. Augustine. He was a past commodore of Coronado Cays Yacht Club in 1987 as well as a member of the Southwestern Yacht Club in San Diego, the St. Augustine Yacht Club and the International Order of the Blue Gavel. He was a member of the Green Village Methodist Church in Green Village, New Jersey and Grace United Methodist Church in St. Augustine. His family includes his wife, Robin Hanson Scheiderman; a son, Erick (Kristi) Scheiderman; granddaughters, Breannah and Kelsea Scheiderman; step-granddaughter, Sheli Richmond, as well as many friends and family around the country. A Service of Remembrance will be held from the graveside at the Ponte Vedra Valley Cemetery on Saturday, April 21st, at 11:00 A.M. with the Reverend Doug Clewis, officiating. A reception will follow at the Marriott Island Green Villas. In lieu of flowers, the family request donations be made to the Green Village Methodist Church, Green Village, New Jersey, 07935 or Grace United Methodist Church, 8 Carrera Street, St. Augustine, Florida 32084. Services under direction and care of Quinn-Shalz, a family Funeral Home, 3rd Street at Ponte Vedra Boulevard, Jacksonville Beach, Florida 32250, 904/249 - 1100, www.quinn-shalz.com
      