
        MODELL-Michael S. Beloved husband of Abby. Adored father of Alex, Andrew and Ashley. Cherished son of Bill and Shelby Modell. Precious brother of Leslie Modell and Mitchell and Robin Modell. Adored uncle of Shawn, Melissa, Brittany and Ashley Modell. Devoted brother-in-law of Audrey and Irv Landau and Liz and Johnny Goldman. Loving uncle of Morgan, Justin and Tyler Landau and Chelsea, Grant and Eyan Goldman. Services Tuesday, May 1, 2001, 12 PM, Park Avenue Synagogue, Madison Avenue at 87th Street, New York. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America Research Fund in memory of Michael S. Modell, 386 Park Avenue South, 14th Floor, NY, NY 10016.
        MODELL-Michael S. Forty-eight years ago God sent an angel to us who showered our lives with countless blessings and whose passing fills our hearts with unbearable sorrow. Our precious and beautiful son Michael was our inspiration. Our joy was to look at him, to know him, and to love him. Now, all our joy has gone. He gave the world his joy and laughter, his brilliance and integrity, his boundless courage, and his abiding compassion. For 34 years, he suffered the capricious and excruciating pain of Crohn's disease with incredible grace and valor. He poured all his love and concern into his family and dedicated himself to helping others who battled inflammatory bowel disease. Together with his brave and beautiful wife Abby, he raised millions of dollars for medical research and worked tirelessly on behalf of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America. He touched the lives of millions of people whose lives are ravaged by Crohn's and Colitis and gave them hope, encouragement and a shining example of how much one person can do to ease the suffering of others. During the past three years, Michael valiantly fought cancer, the last cruel complication of Crohn's disease. As he lay dying, he gave no thought to himself but only to his family. To each of us, he spoke precious words of love and gratitude. He died as he lived, with beauty, grace, compassion, courage, dignity, and boundless love. For his wife, Abby, his children Alex, Andrew and Ashley, his brother Mitchell, his sister Leslie, his nieces Shawn, Melissa, Brittany, and baby Ashley, for all his family, friends, associates, for everyone who was touched by Michael, and for us, his parents, the only words that can express our grief echo Jacob's cry in Genesis: Our angel is gone and we will mourn him till our deaths. Mom and Dad
        MODELL-Michael S. My loving uncle who stepped in my life to replace my dad when he disappeared. At this vulnerable age, I looked for love and guidance and you appeared daily to lessen my pain with love and concern. You were always there for me with open arms. You always called me your fourth child, and I will always remain your oldest child. Although you were very ill, you promised me you would come to my graduation at Tufts University. You rented a bus with a bathroom and rested for the entire trip. As usual, you were there for me with ''bells on.'' You have always encouraged me and always told me that you were so proud of me. You have been a role model for me and I will always follow your example. I will always be there for Alex, Andrew and Ashley and continue to teach them the values that you have taught me. I will miss you and love you for the rest of my life. Most of all, thank you for always being there and for being my daddy. Love, Shawn
        MODELL-Michael S. To my best friend, my partner, my confidant, my mentor and my hero. Michael, I'm the luckiest person in the world to have been blessed to have had a brother like you. Your strength and courage as you battled your constant illnesses was truly inspirational to all that were a witness to it. Your ''never give up'' attitude will be with us forever. You always put everyone's feelings in front of your own so that they wouldn't worry about you. Your love, your wisdom and compassion will continue to shape my life and everyone else's you touched forever and ever. Thank you for all those unforgettable days together. I will miss you dearly and think of you always. Love, Your Buddy, Mitchy
        MODELL-Michael S. Michael, my brother, friend, advisor, confidant and soulmate. I am devastated by this insurmountable loss that I feel without you. I can't imagine life without your positive, loving guidance which has greatly influenced our family. I will try to endure the rest of my life following your standards of excellence and devotion to making other's lives a little better with kind words and deeds. Your capacity for love and understanding set the example that I will follow the rest of my life. Your inspiration and courage will stay in my heart forever. You will always by my treasure that was loaned to us by G-d. I will miss you and love you forver. Love, Leslie
        MODELL-Michael S. Dearest, precious Michael, we are heartbroken as we bid a tearful farewell. You lit up our lives from the day you were born. We will always cherish your goodness and treasure your intellect. Your sensitivity and caring for others brightened the world. Your delightful sense of humor brightened the day. You fought your battle with courage and dignity, and through all the pain there always was that smile. To Abby, Alex, Andrew, Ashley, Shelby, Bill, Leslie, Mitchell, Robin, Shawn, Melissa, Brittany and little Ashley we offer our deepest love. Aunt Doris and Uncle Norman Tipograph
        MODELL-Michael. Cousin Michael, you were truly a special man. Your spirit, your determination, your courage were exemplary to your family, your friends, your colleagues. You inspired us, teaching us how to savor every moment of every day. You brightened our lives with your unbridled joy, your enthusiasm, your sense of humor, lifting us to reach for the highest star. You left an indelible imprint on this world, gracing us with your dignity and class, embracing us with your compassion. Our lives will forever be enriched because of you. We will miss you. Rest in peace. Vicki and Fred Modell
        MODELL-Michael S. It is with profound sorrow and a great sense of loss that we mourn the untimely passing of our beloved Co-President, Michael Modell. Leader, philanthropist, a giant among men, he was deeply touched by the sorrow and pain that befell the less fortunate. He responded with an open heartedness that was a source of great pride to all of his family, friends and associates. His courage and inspirational leadership will long be remembered and his memory will forever be a loving benediction. The Officers and Associates of Modell's Sporting Goods
        MODELL-Michael S. We are so deeply saddened by the tragic loss of our beloved cousin, Michael. His courage and goodness will always be an inspiration, his sense of humor a legend. The memories of the happy times we shared will be with us forever. Our hearts, thoughts and love to his family, to whom he meant so much. They never left his side and always gave him hope and all of their love. Lewis and Sandi Tipograph Peter and Joan Tipograph Neil and Jill Tipograph and all of our children
        MODELL-Michael. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to his wonderful wife Abby, his loving children Alex, Andrew, Ashley, his dear parents Bill and Shelby, and his devoted brother Mitchell and sister Leslie. We will all miss his loving and caring manner. No favor was ever too much for him to do. You were the best. We will all miss our wonderful friend. Bob Baranaskas, Bert Brodsky Vinny Carosella Bruce Lieberman, Dan Mazziota Bruce Meltzer, Nick Racanelli Izzy Rosenzweig, Marty Sass
        MODELL-Michael. The Long Island Chapter of The Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America records with deepest sorrow the passing of our dear friend Michael Modell. His fight was inspirational, his desire to go on profound. To Abby and their children our deepest sympathy, to his parents Shelby and Bill we share your heartache. Richard Kleinman, President Edda Ramsdell, Exec. Director
        MODELL-Michael. The Meltzer family deeply regrets the passing of a friend and associate. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his wife Abby and the rest of his family. He was a wonderful and loving husband and father. A man of great distinction and integrity who left his mark and made his contribution in both his business activities as well as his philanthropic endeavors. He will be missed by all who knew.
        MODELL-Michael. Our sincerest condolences to our cousins Shelby and Bill Modell on the tragic loss of their son Michael. You have done so much for so many and were the inspiration and driving force in establishing the Jeffrey Modell Foundation. Now, in this hour of sadness, we offer our hearts and prayers to you, to Abby, Alex, Andrew and Ashley and to Mitchell and Leslie. Jeffrey Modell Foundation
        MODELL-Michael. To our dearest brother-in-law, uncle and cousin, we will always cherish your kindness, wisdom and humor. You were a unique light in all of our lives and an inspiration for our families. Your courage during your most difficult challenge continued to show your true and strong character. Michael, we will miss you forever but your spirit will live on in our hearts. We love you. The Goldmans and Landaus
        MODELL-Michael. We have lost a kind and devoted champion of Crohn's and Colitis Foundation. Michael personally contributed so much to so many. The impact of his goodness will be felt for years to come by all volunteers and staff of the greater New York chapter. Our love, admiration, respect and sorrow are extended to the entire Modell family. Judy and Dick Saphir
        MODELL-Michael. Our hearts go out to our dear friends, the Modell family, on the loss of a wonderful husband, father, son and brother who left us all too young. He will be remembered by us for his warm and generous heart, and, most of all, for the courage and dignity with which he handled his life and his illness. Roberta and Ricky Brudner and family
        MODELL-Michael S. To an angel that lived among us. Michael, you have been a tower of strength for all of us. Your pride and courage will live on forever. We are truly blessed to have shared your special time on earth. We will miss you every day of our lives. Please rest in peace as we carry on your strength. We love you dearly. Mitchell, Robin, Melissa, Brittany and little Ashley
        MODELL-Michael S. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Michael S. Modell. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        MODELL-Michael. The Board of Governors and the members of The Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Michael Modell, son of William and Shelby Modell, one of our founding members. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Abby and family. Stuart Herz, President
        MODELL-Michael. We will miss your wonderful smile, great sense of humor, your integrity, thoughtfulness and unending loyalty to the Modell family. You engendered the respect and admiration of all. You will always remain in our hearts and memories. Paula, Jerry, Eric, Gregg, Steven, Sara and Rebecca Modell
        MODELL-Michael S. Michael was my soul mate. We shared the love and lore of our family history, and everything else that surrounded us. We challenged each other's mind. He kindled the light of love in my heart and that light will always shine brightly. Rest in peace, my precious nephew. Aunt Doris
        MODELL-Michael. We mourn the passing of our cherished and lifelong friend Michael Modell. He added to our lives in a very significant way. As he climbed the ladder he took so many with him. We feel part of the extended Modell family and share in their tragic loss. Gail and Barry Group and Family
        MODELL-Michael. You will always be in our hearts, our beloved, cherished nephew/cousin. Your courage, humanity and love were a blessing to all who were privileged to know you. Your family and the world has lost an angel. Claire and Sherwin Kaufman, Keith, Kenneth, Linda, Kara and David Kaufman
        MODELL-Michael. You will always be remembered as a special gift to those whose lives you touched. Gert and Jack Lerner Bernice and Norm Mager
        MODELL-Michael. To Shelby and Bill, you have our heartfelt sympathy for your terrible loss. Beverly and Ira Kristel Gloria and Theodore Hindes
        MODELL-Michael Steven. Dear Michael, we love you and will miss you very much. Rest in Peace. Aunt Iris, Uncle Alvin and Milijud
      