
        FOX-George A. United American Energy Corp. (UAE) celebrates the life of George A. Fox, who, with three other engineers, helped create a vision of building environmentally sensitive electric power generating plants as private sector businesses. George Fox was a founding member and served on the Board of Directors of UAE between 1980 and 1998. George Fox's wisdom, advice, and tenacity were instrumental in creating a sound direction for UAE and guiding the company through its start-up phase. Most importantly, George modeled a profound respect for engineering and business principals and ethics, attention to details and dignity in dealing with employees, other stakeholders and the public. George was an extraordinary engineer and a superb artist, who combined these talents to bring people together to accomplish ambitious goals. He has been a great teacher and has inspired us all. UAE has lost a valued advisor, a brilliant businessman and engineer, and a kind and special friend. David Goodman, Chairman, CEO United American Energy Corp.
        FOX-George A. The Alumni Association of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art deeply mourns the passing our dear friend and beloved member, George A. Fox, Civil Engineering, 1940. An outstanding volunteer since his student years, his dedication to The Cooper Union was boundless. He served as the Association's president and on its governing body. The first alumnus elected by alumni to occupy a position on The Cooper Union Board of Trustees, he received the Association's prestigious Gano Dunn Award and Alumnus of the Year Award. We will miss him. Our hearts and our deepest sympathy go out to his beloved wife, Cecily, and to his children and grandchildren. Marilyn Hoffner, President, The Cooper Union Alumni Association
        FOX-George A. George Fox, dear friend, mentor. The Goodman family met and joined hands and hearts with George, his wife Cecily and the Fox family in 1946, when George began work as a civil engineer for Charles Goodman, the president of Grow Construction Company and also a graduate of The Cooper Union. Fifty-five years later, and even after George is gone, our families, children and grandchildren will always be one. Our hearts, minds, and sprits will always be with you. Carolyn and David Goodman
      