
        BRODY-Jerome. Successful businessman, restaurateur, thoroughbred horse breeder & owner, political activist and devoted husband and father, died yesterday in Miami, Florida at the age of 78. Mr. Brody is perhaps best known for his successful restaurants, Gallagher's Steak House and the Grand Central Oyster Bar. However, he was equally successful as a breeder of thoroughbred race horses and champion Angus cattle. He was also very active in politics, supporting and working for John F. Kennedy, Edward I. Koch, and Mario M. Cuomo, among others. Mr. Brody developed Restaurant Associates from a loose string of coffee houses into a powerful and profitable business. He conceived and initiated the movement to create high quality destination restaurants in New York City, beginning with the development of the Four Seasons. With architect Philip Johnson, Brody also transformed the Rainbow Room, atop the then RCA Building, from a failing eatery into a world-class restaurant and night spot. One of Mr. Brody's greatest insights was the intersection between the public and private sectors. He turned Restaurant Associates around by recognizing the need for quality food service at public locations. He worked with the Port Authority and the New York Thruway Authority to meet their needs and requirments, providing a quality service to the traveling pubic and also making a profit. The Grand Central Oyster Bar became a success because Brody understood the limitations and opportunity of a premier but decaying public space. His revitalization of the restaurant helped improve the environment and safety of the station. His support of the renovation of the station enabled it to go forward and the restaurant provides an anchor to ensure the public expenditures will continue to be viewed as well spent. With his wife, the former Marlene HeiderGray, Jerome Brody built Gallagher Stud in Ghent, N.Y. into the leading thoroughbred breeding farm in the state. International Champion Allez Milord won graded stakes in Europe and the United States and was ultimately sold for stud duty in Japan. Among the many successful horses raced by Jerome and Marlene Brody, include Adorable Micol, Adcat and Adorydar. In public position in the thoroughbred racing industry, Brody strongly advocated for improved health and safety procedures for the horses, including technologically advanced emergency medical vans on the race track and state-of-the-art medical clinics on the race track, to treat injured horses. The son of a successful New York businessman, Jerome Brody was educated at Dartmouth College. He interrupted his studies to become a B-24 Air Corps pilot during WWII. Before his death, Mr. Brody arranged to sell both the Oyster Bar and Gallagher's restaurants to his employees at the two restaurants. He also arranged for equity interests for his senior managers at Gallagher's Stud in Ghent, N.Y. Brody also protected the future of the upstate farm throught the mechanism of a land trust. His wife Marlene, also his best friend, his sister Ellie, his children Kathy and Scott, and his grandchildren, Jill, Jason, Marisa, Leigh, David and Rick survive Mr. Brody. Friday, May 18th, viewing from 6-9PM at FrankE. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st Street, N.Y., N.Y. (212-288-3500), Saturday, May 19th, 12 Noon service at Frank E. Campbell, Sunday, May 20th viewing from 6-9PM at Wenk Funeral Home, Chatham, N.Y. (518392-2909), Monday, May 21st interment service at Gallagher's Stud, Leggett Road, Ghent, N.Y. 12075 at 11AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in memory of Jerome Brodymay be made to the Dartmouth Medical Center, Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis Research, Hanover, N.H. will be greatly appreciated.
      