
        MODELL-Michael. The Board of Directors and Members of the Association for a Better New York send heartfelt condolences to the entire Modell family. A devoted and enthusiastic member of ABNY, Michael's passing is a great loss to the city that he loved. ABNY will never forget his genuine support. Lewis Rudin, Chairman Association for a Better New York
        MODELL-Michael S. The Board and staff of the Gold Coast Chapter, Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America express deep sorrow at the tragic and untimely loss of a courageous individual whose dedication and generous spirit made him an inspiration to all. We extend our deepest sympathies to CCFA founders Shelby and Bill Modell and to the entire Modell family on the devastating loss of their beloved Michael. Gold Coast Chapter, CCFA Norman Shapiro, President
        MODELL-Michael S. We feel privileged to have shared the good times with you and your family. We will try to build on your example: positive attitude in the face of adversity, sense of humor, kind human spirit and winning smile. We will do all that we can for Abby, Alex, Andrew and Ashley, Bill, Shelby and the entire family. Love from your ''best customers'' Rusty Cloud, Claire, Ricky, Danny Pellegrini, Senator Roy Goodman
        MODELL-Michael S. Dearest Michael, we shared many fine and happy hours together. Box seats at Ebbets Field and Shea Stadium, you included me in many of your family events, you put up with my many political fundraising calls, and never said no. We shared a lot of things in common such as family values. I will miss you very much. My sympathy is extended to your entire family. Love, cousin Howard Koeppel
        MODELL-Michael S. To a wonderful father, beloved husband and a devoted son and brother. He was a model of strength, compassion and grace. He has touched the lives of many. Our heartfelt sympathies extend to Abby, Alex, Andrew, Ashley, Bill, Shelby and Mitchell. The Lubliner Family
        MODELL-Michael. The officers of Sterling National Bank express their deep regret and condolences to the family on the untimely passing of our friend and long-time banking customer. He was a man of extraordinary business talents and great personal warmth. His contributions will long be remembered.
        MODELL-Michael. Our hearts go out to the Modell family on the loss of your beloved Michael. He was a constant source of courage and compassion for our family. We will never forget what Michael has done for us. The Aarons Family
      