
        SCHULDER-Jacob J. On April 30. Devoted husband of the late Hilda Beim Schulder for 62 years. Loving father of Diane and Bob Abrams, Sylvia and Bert Fisher, and Howard and Marilyn Schulder. Adoring grandfather of Robert & Amy Fisher, Jeffrey and Nicole Fisher, Amy & Patrick Arn, Marcy and Andrew Barkan, Rachel and Rabbi Ian Pear, & Becky Schulder Abrams. Great grandfather of Marlie, Gavriella-Hindi, Gabriel and Dillon. Beloved brother of Paul Schulder, the late Freda Greenman, the late Mannie Schulder, the late Ricky Singer, and the late Joseph Schulder. Died peacefully at home. Service Tuesday, 10:00 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        SCHULDER-Jacob J. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and its affiliates mourn the passing of the revered father of our devoted member, Diane Schulder Abrams and the beloved brother of our esteemed member, Paul Schulder. We extend heartfelt sympathy to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Chaim Edelstein, President
        SCHULDER-Jacob J. The Jewish Center of Atlantic Beach records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Jacob J. Schulder, father of Diane and Robert Abrams, Sylvia and Bertrand Fisher and Marilyn and Howard Schulder. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and know no further sorrow.
        SCHULDER-Jacob J. The Yeshivah of Flatbush deeply mourn the passing of Jacob J. Schulder, brother of Paul Schulder, Honorary President. Heartfelt condolences are extended to the entire Schulder family. May they be comforted among the Mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Paul Kopyt, President Dennis M. Eisenberg, Exec. VP.
        SCHULDER-Jack. We join the Schulder, Fisher and Abrams family in mourning the loss of a great and honorable man whose generosity and integrity, chesed and emet was legendary. Shirley, Neal and Joshua Boyarsky Nicole, Jeffrey and Gabriel Fisher and Jennifer, Jonathan and Max Boyarsky
        SCHULDER-Jacob. The partners and staff of Spector, Rothenberg & Co., LLP mourn the passing of our esteemed client and friend Jacob J. Schulder. We express our deepest condolences to his loving children, Howard and Marilyn Schulder, Bert and Sylvia Fisher, Robert and Diane Abrams and the entire Schulder family.
        SCHULDER-Jacob. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi, Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman, J. Ezra Merkin, President
        SCHULDER-Jacob J. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of our esteemed, generous benefactor and extends heartfelt condolences to the entire bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman Board of Trustees
        SCHULDER-Jacob J. The Officers and employees of Summa Capital Corp. deeply mourn the passing of our Chairman, Jacob J. Schulder, known affectionately as JS. We will miss his warm smile, good humor, sharp mind, and kindness to us. Howard Schulder, President
        SCHULDER-Jacob. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University mourn the passing of a generous patron and extend sincerest condolences to the extended family. We share with them many beautiful memories. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman Chancellor, Bar-Ilan University
        SCHULDER-Jacob (Jack). The Woodmere Club regrets the passing of our good friend and longtime member, Jack Schulder. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his family and friends. Board of Governors, The Woodmere Club
        SCHULDER-Jacob. We have been privileged to know and love the Schulder family. Jack has been a true role model and unique example of a Tzadik for us to follow and revere. The Sklar Family
        SCHULDER-Jacob. Our heartfelt condolences to the Schulder family at the loss of our lifetime friend, ''Uncle Jack''. The Ratner Family
      