
        BERKLEY-Barbara Glasgall. On May 10, at home. Bobbie inspired family and friends with her warmth, wit, charity and love. She was a vibrant and passionate woman who frequently devoted her efforts to political and educational campaigns. She loved sports and enjoyed competing and developing her skills. Bobbie was a student in Hanya Holm's first dance class in the United States, and was an early modern dance enthusiast thanks to her avant-garde mother. She danced and performed under the direction of Margaret Dobler at the University of Wisconsin. Bobbie was a fine student and graduated from UW in 1941. May 4th was her 61st wedding anniversary, an anniversary that marked so many years of a rare marriage. From that day in September 1938, when Bobbie and Bob met at the AEPhi Sorority tea, at the University of Wisconsin, it was a continuing love affair. They eloped to Dubuque, Iowa on May 4, 1940. As a new mother during World War II, Bobbie suffered the worry of separation from her husband. Shaped by her happy childhood in the Jewish community in Paterson, NJ, she maintained a lifelong bond to that place and those people. In Hillsdale, NJ, where Bobbie and her family resided for 45 years, she was active in many community activities including drama, fund-raising for many causes, and ardent support for the Bergen YJCC and Temple Emanuel. She regarded the growth and popularity of both these institutions as miraculous. Bobbie and Bob sponsored the immigration of the Raiskin family from Russia. She considered this to be a highlight of her life, & was immensely proud of this addition to her family. Bobbie leaves her husband, Bob, a daughter, Alison and a son, Roger, as well as a sister, Judith Weiner and her sister-in-law, Jane Kantor. She also leaves her three grandchildren, Kate, Daniel, and Sarah, and a host of loving nieces and nephews. Services 11:30 AM, Sunday at Gutterman-Musicant, 402 Park Street, Hackensack, NJ; burial at Temple B'nai Abraham Memorial Park, Union, New Jersey. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Alzheimers Association, New York Chapter, 360 Lexington Ave., NYC would be appreciated.
        BERKLEY-Barbara. We all share in the loss of Bobbie, a great patriot and soldier in the continuing fight for freedom and fairness. The Spiegel Family
      