
        SCHLEIN-Richard S. Of Southampton on April 30, 2001 at the age of 72. He is survived by his wife Betty, his children Carol & Craig, Alan and Michael and his grandchildren Margaret and Jamie. He was a sweet man with a caring heart and a spirit for life. He made this world a better place for everyone who knew him. A service will be held at Mount Lebanon Cemetery in Queens on Wednesday, May 2nd at 11AM. In lieu of flowers, the family prefers memorial donations be sent to Southampton Hospital, 240 Meeting House Lane, Southampton, NY 11968.
        SCHLEIN-Richard S. The Officers, Trustees and Employees of Fidelity Cemetery Association of Bergen County, NJ, mourn the passing of Richard S. Schlein, who served as an Officer of the Cemetery for more than 40 years prior to his retirement, and continued to serve as a Trustee until his demise. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Betty, and children Carol, Alan and Michael. We will miss his humor and companionship. Fidelity Cemetery Association of Bergen County, NJ Herbert B. Klapper, Pres. Vincent T. Sweatlock, Vice Pres. Jeffrey G. Schlein, Treasurer Howard S. Cohen, Secretary
        SCHLEIN-Richard S. It is with profound sorrow that the Trustees, Officers, and Employees of Cedar Park Cemetery record the passing of Richard S. Schlein, who served as an Officer of the Cemetery for more than 40 years prior to his retirement, and continued to serve as a Trustee until his demise. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Betty, and to his entire family. His dedication and friendship will be remembered by all of us. Cedar Park Cemetery Herbert B. Klapper, Pres. Vincent T. Sweatlock, Vice Pres. Jeffrey G. Schlein, Treasurer Howard S. Cohen, Secretary
        SCHLEIN - Richard S. The Trustees, Officers, and Employees of New Cedar Park Cemetery extend deepest condolences to the family of Richard S. Schlein, a Trustee of the Cemetery, who also served as its President for more than 40 years prior to his retirement. To his wife, Betty, and children Carol, Alan and Michael our heartfelt sympathy. He will be missed by all who knew him. New Cedar Park Cemetery Herbert B. Klapper, Pres. Vincent T. Sweatlock, Vice Pres. Jeffrey G. Schlein, Treasurer Howard S. Cohen, Secretary
        SCHLEIN-Richard. The Board and staff of Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic are deeply saddened at the sudden loss of Richard Schlein. He and his wife Betty have been long-time and ardent supporters of local Planned Parenthood services. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Betty and the Schlein family. Francine S. Stein, President & CEO Rose Brown, Executive V.P. Carol Stix, Chair
        SCHLEIN-Richard. The Jewish Center of Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Richard Schlein, beloved husband of Betty Schlein. We extend our deepest condolences to Betty and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        SCHLEIN-Richard S. We record with sorrow the passing of our longtime associate and dear friend, Richard S. Schlein. Each of our families extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Betty, and children, Carol, Alan and Michael. Howard S. Cohen and Herbert J. Stolitzky
      