
        FISHER-Suzanne. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Suzanne Fisher, beloved wife of Richard, and a cherished friend of our community, who embraced her family's commitment to Jewish philanthropic causes. The Fisher family has long been admired for their extraordinary generosity and leadership, which have helped sustain UJA-Federation's diverse network of health and human service agencies. We extend our deepest sympathies to Suzanne's husband, Richard; her mother, Carol Ehlers; her sister, Elizabeth; her brothers, Robert, Thomas, and David; and the entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair and President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        FISHER-Suzanne. It is with great sadness that the Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center mourn the passing of Suzanne Fisher. Our thoughts and prayers are with her husband, Richard L. Fisher, a cherished member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Richard and to the Fisher family and friends. Beverly Sills, Chairman Gordon J. Davis, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts Inc.
        FISHER-Suzanne Ehlers. You are loved and greatly missed by all of us. You were a model to us throughout your life, especially in these last months as you battled cancer with such dignity and valor. You leave a legacy of kindness that will never be forgotten. With love, Mom, Robert and Anne Marie, David, Tommy and Vera, Liz and John, and all of your nieces and nephews.
        FISHER-Suzanne Ehlers. On behalf of all of us at Rubenstein Associates, Inc. I would like to express my sincerest sympathy to Richard L. Fisher, respected friend and client, on the passing of his beloved wife, Suzanne Ehlers Fisher. I extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Howard J. Rubenstein, President
        FISHER-Suzanne (nee Ehlers). Our deepest sympathy and love to the Ehlers and Fishers. For over 30 years ''the Ehlers'' have been more like family than neighbors. We mourn with you. Myra, Jerry, Debbie and Michael
        FISHER-Suzanne. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire Fisher family on the loss of Suzanne Fisher. The Marketing Directors, Inc.
      