
        MEISTER-Wendy. We extend heartfelt condolences to Robert, Todd, and Keith Meister, as well as Gail Mason and Richard Alexander on the untimely, sad passing of their beloved wife, mother and sister. A ''Woman of Valor'', Wendy was a role model to her family and friends. Her life was a blessing, full of compassion, goodness and selflessness. To all who had the privilege of knowing this beautiful woman, she personified the highest standards of grace, dignity and courage. The tradition of Tzedakah and Chesed faithfully fulfilled by Wendy, is a legacy of a woman who imbued her family with profound values. As a Diamond Founder of the Medical Center, together with her husband, Robert, and as an honorary member of the National Women's Division Board, Wendy made a vital difference to the health-care needs of thousands of people in Jerusalem and Israel. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. for Shaare Zedek Jerusalem Med. Ctr. Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, Pres. Sidney Adler, Treas. Lee Weinbach, Pres. Nat'l Women's Div. Michael S. Strauss, Chrmn. NY Bd.
        MEISTER-Wendy. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Wendy Meister, a cherished friend of the Jewish community who was admired by her family, friends, and students for her inspiring courage and wisdom. She and her beloved husband, Robert, an exceptionally generous member of our General Insurance Division, shared a deep devotion to Jewish and other humanitarian causes. We extend our sincerest condolences to Robert; to Mrs. Meister's beloved sons, Todd and Keith; and to the entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair & President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Ernest W. Michel, Executive VP Emeritus
        MEISTER-Wendy. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the untimely passing of Wendy, beloved wife of Robert. Wendy and Bob shared a devotion to community service and helped further the League's work through their activism and generous philanthropy. In 1998, they received ADL's Haim Salomon Award for their tireless dedication to humanitarianism and brotherhood. We extend our deepest condolences to Bob, his sons and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        MEISTER-Wendy. Wendy will forever be my best friend. She was Aunt Wendy to Jarret and Tracy. She shared in my family's triumphs and sadness. Wendy is my hero, her tenacity, courage and unwavering belief that she could beat her illness helped carry all of us who loved her. I promised Wendy to watch over her children, Todd and Keith, and her husband, Bob. She loved them deeply and unconditionally. Her love of life will live through all of us that she loved and touched. I was so lucky she was my frend. Rest in peace my angel. All my love. Arlyne
        MEISTER-Wendy. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Wendy Meister. She was the most beautiful, warmest and best friend anyone could have. Her devotion to her family was her calling, and our hearts go out to Bob, Todd, Keith, and her dearest friend, Arlyne. Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol
        MEISTER-Wendy. Dearest Wendy, you were a beautiful, wonderful, special lady whom we all adored. We shall always remember you and miss you tremendously. Our hearts go out to your beloved husband and sons, Robert, Keith and Todd. Love Ruth and Carl Shapiro
        MEISTER-Wendy. The most elegant woman whose beauty, wit, charm, strength and intelligence will always be remembered. Heartfelt sympathy to Bob, Todd, Keith, and Arlyne.
        MEISTER-Wendy. Our sympathies to Bob, Todd and Keith on the tragic loss of their loving wife and mother, Wendy. No one will ever forget her brave spirit. Love, Don and Nancy Carter
        MEISTER-Wendy. We will miss our beloved friend, Wendy Meister. The Pashcow Family
        MEISTER-Wendy. I know Eddie is making you laugh again. Love Cheryl
      