
        OLIENSIS-Sheldon. On May 14, 2001 at age 79. Husband of Lyn. Father of John Oliensis and Lucretia Moroni, Jane Oliensis, Ellen Oliensis and John Shoptaw. Grandfather of Melina and Chiara Bernardi, Rebecca Shoptaw and Adrian Oliensis. Brother of Doris Woldow and Dr. Asher Woldow. Also survived by many nephews, nieces, grand nephews and grand nieces. The funeral services will be private. A memorial service will be held later. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Sheldon Oliensis Scholarship Fund at the Harvard Law School or to a charity of your choice.
        OLIENSIS-Sheldon. The Partners of Kaye Scholer LLP mourn the loss of their esteemed partner, colleague and friend, Sheldon Oliensis. Mr. Oliensis joined the firm in 1960 specializing in the areas of civil litigation and the mediation of complex commercial matters in federal and state trial and appellate courts throughout the country. The industries he represented included oil, insurance, securities, entertainment and real estate. He was a former President of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, the Legal Aid Society, the Harvard Law School Association, and was Chair of the New York City Conflicts of Interest Board. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Pennsylvania and earned an LLB from Harvard Law School where he was President of the Law Review while at that institution. A Kaye Scholer Partner for 40 years, he was Special Counsel to the firm until his death. The firm extends its deepest condolences to the Oliensis family.
        OLIENSIS-Sheldon. The Association of the Bar of the City of New York is deeply saddened by the passing of our former President. Jim served as President from 1988-1990, and was firmly committed to providing legal services to the poor, promoting diversity in the profession, and increasing opportunities for all members to become involved in the work of the Association. Jim's commitment to justice and opportunity will be long felt by those whom the Association serves. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Lyn and his family.
      