
        DANA-Charles A. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Charles A. Dana, a most altruistic friend and benefactor. The generosity that he has shown to the Hospital for more than 20 years has enabled us to make tremendous strides in musculoskeletal research. The Dana Center for Orthopaedic Implants at Hospital for Special Surgery will continue to provide lasting testament to his generous support of these endeavors. He was a great humanitarian to whom generations of patients owe deep gratitude & from whom we can all learn the true meaning of selfless devotion. He will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Norma, and to Charlie, Sandra & Mimi. Memorial services are scheduled for 11:30AM on Monday, May 14 at St. James Episcopal Church, Madison Avenue and 71st Street, NYC. Richard L. Menschel Chairman Aldo Papone Co-Chairman Board of Trustees Russell F. Warren, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief Stephen A. Paget, M.D. Physician-in-Chief Philip D. Wilson, Jr., M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief, Emeritus John R. Reynolds President & CEO
        DANA-Charles A. Jr. The President, Board of Trustees, staff and extended family of Dana-Farber Cancer Institute mourn the passing on May 9, of our esteemed friend, colleague, and benefactor, Charels A. Dana, Jr. The Institute will be forever grateful to Mr. Dana for his foresight and caring, which undoubtedly changed the future of cancer research and was instrumental in making Dana-Farber Cancer Institute the renowned cancer facility that it is today. It was his enthusiasm for the research in childhood leukemia being conducted by Institute founder Dr. Sidney Farber that resulted in a propitious meeting of Dr. Farber and Mr. Dana's father, Charles A. Dana, Sr. The elder Dana's support, which has been continued by the Charles A. Dana Foundation for more than four dcades, initiated the growth of the Institute and bolstered the expansion of its research and care facilities. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Norma, and to his family and friends. Edward J. Benz, M.D., President Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
        DANA-Charles A., Jr. With deepest regret, that Charles A. Dana Foundation announces that Charles A. Dana, Jr., a founding member, died Wednesday, May 9, 2001. His generosity of spirit, his commitment to the Foundation, and his strength provided a model for the Board of Directors and the Staff. We send our deepest sympathies to his wife, Norma, his children, Charles, Sandra, and Marion, his stepson Bruce, his grandchildren, his step-grandchildren, his great-grandchildren, and other family members. The Board of Directors and Staff Charles A. Dana Foundation
        DANA-Charles A. Jr. United Cerebral Palsy Research Foundation mourns the passing of Charles A. Dana Jr. a lifelong friend and supporter of our research efforts. He and his wife Norma stood in the forefront of our efforts to find a solution for palsied children. Our love and sympathy goes out to Norma and their families. Frank Bennack Ralph Shapiro Dr. Murray Goldstein Leo Hausman
      