
        KIAM-Victor K. Died peacefully on May 27th. Beloved husband of Ellen, loving father of Lisa, Tory and Robin; devoted grandfather of Jenny, Alexander, Sophia, Caleigh and Lia. A service will be held Wednesday, May 30th, 10AM, at the 92nd Street Y, on 92nd St and Lexington Avenue. Donations may be made to: Divison of Cardiology, Weill-Cornell Medical College, 1300 York Ave., New York, N.Y. 10021, attention: Dr. David Blumenthal or the Entrepreneurship Fund of Harvard Business School, Soldiers Field, Boston, MA. 02163, attention: Florence Amoroso, Asst. Director, Fund Office, or 92nd St. Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10128.
        KIAM-Victor. The Leeds family joins in expressing their profound sorrow at the passing of their beloved friend, Victor Kiam. He was a beautiful and courageous man and larger than life. Our families are so close and our admiration, affection and respect for Victor will be forever. His success in business was legendary and he often was able to take a seemingly implausible idea and develop it into an exciting and profitable enterprise. To listen to Victor was to gather inspiration. With him the glass was always half full. Lisa, Tory and Robin are three of the finest children any couple could ever have. Their excellence as human beings is indicative of what a great family man, husband, father and grandfather Vic Kiam has been. We all join in sending our love to our beloved Ellen and want her to know how much we grieve with her. Dalia, Larry, Cary, Ashley & Tracy
        KIAM-Victor K. Dear Victor, a heart of gold and charisma, a unique combination. My hero and beloved confidante and friend. You know you were my personal and professional role model and mentor. An uncanny ability to make everyone around you feel incredibly special. You gave to all without expecting anything in return. Victor, you and Ellen have built a family that will always be my foundation. Thank you for including me in your family and heart. I will always cherish our time spent together, and your inner strength and beauty will always serve as my guide. I will love and support your family forever, and you can rest assured that they will continue to ''go for it'' in life and in tennis! Love always, Jay B. Horowitz
        KIAM-Victor K. The partners, managers and staff of Grant Thornton express our great sorrow at the loss of an outstanding entrepreneur, client and friend. Never without a smile and always upbeat, Victor was the eternal optimist. Victor brought humanity to the business world. He was the consummate salesman as well as a true gentleman. Always the innovator, Victor had the ability to see beyond existing parameters, making him a pleasure to work with. He was an inspiration to all of us. Our deepest sympathy goes out to Ellen, Lisa, Tory, Robin and to Victor's grandchildren. We know how much all of you will miss him. So will we. Stanley Graber
        KIAM-Victor K. On Sunday, the world lost a very special human being. Victor K. Kiam was a leader who possessed the vision that made the difference in the lives of his family and countless friends and associates. He had the uncanny ability to light up a room with his stories and wit. But make no mistake about it, when it was time for business, everyone listened and learned. Victor loved an audience, but what made him stand above the rest was the fact that the audience loved him back. He will always be with us. Diane G. Kranz and All of us at Kranz & Company
        KIAM-Victor K., Jr. Beloved friend of the late Stanley L. Weil, Jr., and the Weil family. He loved life and lived it joyously. Like the song he played so often and loudly, everyday, was ''The Best of Times,'' no matter how gray the day. He was a generous and devoted friend to us, and a wise, gentle and loving husband, father, and grandfather to his family. Though he was a spectacular life force to many, to us, he was, ''plain old Vic,'' our friend. He will live forever in our memory and we are blessed by the way he graced our lives and by his friendship. Peggy, Stan, Zoe
        KIAM-Victor. In Memory of Mr. Victor K. Kiam II. Since 1980, when Victor Kiam re-established Remington in Japan, we have enjoyed many wonderful moments with him. Victor has always loved the Japanese people and enthusiastically appreciated their culture. He was a real Entrepreneur and wonderful business Ambassador in Japan. We will miss our best friend, but he will always remain in our hearts and memories. Shunji Izumi, President Izumi Products Co. Hank Saito, President IPC Industries, Inc.
        KIAM-Victor K. You were our mentor, our passionate leader, our Chairman. Your wisdom, wit, warmth and humanity has inspired us all. You will be deeply missed. We will always remember your enthusiasm and the entrepreneurial spirit in which you lived your life. We will always be inspired to ''Keep Going for It''. We express our profound sympathy and condolences to Ellen, Tory, Robin, Lisa and your entire family. Your friends at Travel Smart by Franzus.
        KIAM-Victor. Our friend, a revered alumnus (1940), and an example for all of us at The Fessenden School. Mr. Kiam was a man of the greatest compassion, integrity, and character. Mr. Kiam embodied the mission of Fessenden because he possessed a ''love of learning and a joy for living.'' We will miss him dearly but his example will inspire us for years to come. Our condolences to the members of his wonderful family.
        KIAM-Victor. Night Sky Restaurants and the management and staff of Windows on the World and Beacon Restaurant mourn the passing of our dear friend and partner. Steadfast supporter, unwavering ally and lover of the long shot. We will never forget your devotion to friends and family, your appetite for life and the spirit you brought to everything you did.
        KIAM-Victor. We will miss our great friend, Victor. We have the fondest memories of our time together. Victor was a man of great generosity, kindness and warmth...and, he was a heck of a lot of fun. Our deepest sympathy to Ellen, Lisa, Tory, Robin and their families. The Kurt Adler Family
        KIAM-Victor. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Victor Kiam. We will miss his enthusiasm, optimism and passionate love of both family and life. Our heartfelt sympathy to Ellen, Lisa, Tory, Robin and their loving families. Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol
        KIAM-Victor K. It was a privilege to have you as a friend and a partner. Your steadfast support and wisdom helped guide us through the years. Your optimism encouraged us and your humor we so appreciated. Thank you for believing in us. We will miss you. Alex Friend and Steve Skoler
        KIAM-Victor. Victor's enthusiasm, enjoyment of life, and positive attitude enriched our lives. We will miss our good friend, Life Master bridge opponent, and tennis champion buddy. To his wonderful family, we send our love and sympathy. Betty and John
        KIAM-Victor. The world has lost a unique and successful entrepreneur, and we have lost a close friend of our entire family. Our most sincere condolences to Ellen, Lisa, Tory and Robin. Victor, we will miss you. Lori and David Moore
        KIAM-Victor. We, and others who knew and loved him as we did, have lost a true, caring and very loyal friend. Victor was truly oneof-a-kind, and we will miss him terribly. Our love and condolences to Ellen, Lisa, Tory and Robin. Sue and Bob Tofel
        KIAM-Victor K. A great man whose entrepreneurial spirit, optimism and love of life will never be forgotten. Our heartfelt condolences to Ellen, Lisa, Robin and Tory. Michael Madan, Madan Plastics, Inc.
        KIAM-Victor K. II. We have lost a treasured part of our lives. He made us all happier. We will miss him and our hearts and sympathy are with Ellen, his children and grandchildren. The Emil Family
        KIAM-Victor K. Your devotion to your family, your warmth and zest for living set a terrific example for us. We always loved being with you and will miss you very much. Bob Horne and Laurie Lindenbaum
        KIAM-Victor K. II. We are sorry to have lost a great friend and esteemed client. We extend our sympathy to Ellen, his children and grandchildren. Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel
        KIAM-Victor. The Renaissance Man. The Ultimate Showman. Ellen's Love. Lisa, Tory and Robin's Super Dad. Best Boppa. My Hero! Love, Merel Cayne
        KIAM-Victor. We will miss your warmth, wonderful personality and love of life. With deepest affection. All the Hahns.
      