
        MODELL-Michael. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Chapter, Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America (CCFA), are devastated by the tragic and untimely loss of its beloved Board Member and friend, Michael S. Modell. Following in the tradition of his parents, CCFA's esteemed CoFounders and Board Members, Shelby and William D. Modell, Michael embraced the goals of the Foundation and, with fierce determination and skill, championed its cause to find a cure for Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. With passion and inspired leadership he served as a Trustee for over eighteen years-seven as Vice President of Fundraising. Taking over the reins from his parents in 1993, Michael and his wife Abby chaired the Chapter's Annual Dinner and Journal, the Foundation's most financially successful event. For the past three years Michael fought his illness valiantly and with great strength. He taught us all the meaning of dignity and extraordinary courage. We loved, admired and respected Michael and will forever miss his indomitable spirit and friendship. We extend our love and heartfelt sympathy to Michael's beloved family-wife Abby, children Ashley, Andrew and Alexander, parents Shelby and Bill, sister Leslie, brother Mitchell and sister-in-law Robin. May they derive comfort in the knowledge that they are in our hearts and prayers. Greater New York Chapter, CCFA Nancy Brown President Judy Saphir Chairwoman Joan Telley Executive Director Ed Munoz Director of Finance & Operations
        MODELL-Michael S. The National Board of Trustees and staff of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America mourn the loss of our dear friend, Michael S. Modell. The son of our beloved co-founders, William D. and Shelby Modell, Michael was a shining example of his family's profound compassion, integrity, and tireless commitment to philanthrophy. He battled Crohn's disease every day of his life not for himself alone, but for every man, woman, and child who struggles with inflammatory bowel disease. We will never forget his courage and his indefatigable dedication to the search for a cure. Michael has left a legacy of hope and inspiration that will touch hundreds of thousands of lives, for generations to come. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Abby and their children, Alex, Andrew, and Ashley; to his parents, Bill and Shelby; to his brother, Mitchell, and sister, Leslie; and to the entire Modell family. May the memory of Michael's love, bravery, and extraordinary achievements in the face of adversity bring them solace in their time of sorrow. We will forever hold his memory in our hearts. Lisa H. Richardson, Chairperson of the Board Charles O. Elson, M.D., Chairperson National Scientific Advisory Committee Ronald J.H. Napal, Chief Development Officer William Truffa, Chief Operating Officer
        MODELL-Michael S. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Michael Modell. Michael was the beloved son of William and Shelby Modell, cherished friends and major supporters of our mission. We extend our deepest sympathies to Bill and Shelby, to Michael's wife, Abby, and his children, Alex, Andrew, and Ashley. May his memory be a blessing. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair Arthur M. Katz, LI Cabinet Chair John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Simon Kaminetsky, LI Regional Director
        MODELL-Michael. The partners and staff of our firm wish to express our heartfelt sorrow at the untimely passing of Michael S. Modell. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Abby, children Alex, Andrew and Ashley, brother Mitchell, sister Leslie, and parents Bill and Shelby. We have known and worked with him for more than 15 years and came to know his intelligence, caring manner, courage and strong character and will greatly miss him. The Partners and Staff of Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP
        MODELL-Michael. You were a very special young man. You were loved and respected by all who knew you. Always a kind word, the warmest & affectionate greeting and the son and friend that everyone would be happy to have had. Thank you Michael for giving us the pleasure to have known you since you were a little boy. Our warmest love to your wife, Abby and children Alex, Andrew and Ashley. We will never forget you. Jean & Mike Steinberg & family
        MODELL-Michael. My deepest sympathy to Shelby and Bill Modell, as well as the entire Modell family. I will always miss Michael's strenghth, spirit, sense of humor and decency. He was, and is ''the real thing''. Michael made us all better human beings by his quiet example. What better legacy can a man leave. His spirit will forever live in all of our hearts. Wayne M. Winnick
        MODELL-Michael. We are very saddened over the loss of our friend and CCFA Board member. Thank you for your strength, support and guidance. You are in our hearts forever. We will never forget you. Our deepest sympathy is extended to your loving and caring family. Love, Sandra Wilkin & Allison Frowley and family
        MODELL-Michael. Our heartfelt sympathy to the Modell family on the loss of Michael. In life, he was the epitome of courage and strength and in death, he is an inspiration to all whose lives he touched. The Ripka Berk Family
        MODELL-Michael. Michael was a proud representative of his family tradition and a cheerful friend of many. He always had time for the causes of others. Richard A. Cook, President The Hundred Year Association of New York
        MODELL-Michael. Our hearts go out to the Modell family on the loss of your beloved Michael. He was a constant source of courage and compassion for our family. We will never forget what Michael has done for us. The Aarons Family
        MODELL-Michael. We will always remember Michael's extraordinary kindness and friendship that continues to live on with Abby, Alex, Andrew and Ashley. Our deepest sympathy to all. Linda and Harold Koplewicz Adam, Sam and Joshua
        MODELL-Michael. Our deepest condolences and heartfelt sympathy to the entire Modell family on the loss of their beloved Michael. We will truly miss his largerthan-life presence. Lake Success Shopping Center
        MODELL-Michael. We wish to express our heartfelt condolences to the Modell family. Michael's courage and compassion will be an inspiration to us all. Candice and Steven Stark Andrea and John Stark
        MODELL-Michael S. Our heartfelt condolences to Alex and his family. Your dad was a wonderful man who will be missed by so many. The Class of 2004, The Dalton School
        MODELL-Michael. The entire Dalton community mourns the loss of Michael Modell, husband of Abby, and father of Alexander, Andrew, and Ashley. We extend our heartfelt sympathies.
        MODELL-Michael. To the Modell family, you have our heartfelt sympathy for your terrible loss. The Kristel Family
      