
        KAHLE-Robert Vinton and his wife, Annabella Schafer Kahle of Caracas, Venezuela died in a private plane accident Saturday, April 28, 2001 in Middletown, RI. They lived in Newport, RI and Caracas Venezuela. Robert was born in Tampico, Mexico on December 6, 1932. Second brother of three, Robert grew up in Mexico, Venezuela and Tulsa, OK. He graduated second in his engineering class at Cornell in 1955. He married Margaret Mary Lurton in 1955 and raised 2 children. After serving in the Air Force at Wright Patterson Air Force Base he joined Esso Research as an engineer. Working with the early computers of the 1950's he pioneered refinery optimization using Operations Research techniques. Decades after his father helped establish Esso's presence in Venezuela, Robert negotiated the reparations from the nationalization of the resulting Venezuelan oil industry. Robert went on to manage Esso's relationship with Venezuela. He married Annabella Schafer in 1983. They enjoyed living in Venezuela, and spending time in Newport, RI. Hilda Annabella Schafer Kahle was born in Caracas, Venezuela on August 9, 1942. Annabella was schooled in Spain, Barbados, and Venezuela in the arts, and at the New York University. Annabella, an internationally exhibited artist received the Venezuelan National Arts of Fire award for her work in ceramics. They found in each other and in Newport, RI what they dreamed of-a private plane, an active artist community, and the sea. Their compassion, understanding, love and generosity towards their families and their community will be greatly missed. Robert is survived by his mother Helen (Herr) Kahle formerly of Essex, CT. currently of Advance, N.C., a son Brewster Lurton Kahle of San Francisco, CA and a daughter Alison Lurton Kahle of Delaware, OH, two brothers, Loren Frederick Kahle of Austin, TX and Richard Allan Kahle of Arlington, TX. Annabella is survived by two daughters Carolina Rosenberg Agurto and Diana Rosenberg Diez both of Caracas, Venezuela, four brothers Herman Schafer, Alfonso Schafer, Johann Schafer and Hans Schafer, all of Caracas, Venezuela, and sister Astrid Schafer also of Caracas, Venezuela. A Memorial Service will be held Thursday, May 3 at 3:00PM in the home of Robert and Annabella Kahle, 3 Cherry Creek Place, Newport.
      