
        SO-Henry B., M.D. Beloved husband of Dr. Flora (Te). Devoted father of Henry Jr. and Gerald. On May 4, after a long and courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. Dr. So would have been 67 on June 1. Dr. So received his medical degree cum laude from the University of Santo Tomas in 1959. He then became a ''Gold Medalist'' intern at Clark Air Force Base in the Philippines for two years. In 1961 he did a second internship at the Albert Einstein Medical Center in Philadelphia, PA. Henry then accepted a residency at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City. He completed his general surgical residency in 1966. At that time he was recognized as an outstanding graduate and continued his training at the Children's Hospital of Buffalo. He achieved the status of a pediatric surgeon at that time. Dr. So returned to Manila where he became chief of pediatric surgery at the University of Santo Tomas. On June 1, 1970, he married Dr. Flora (Te) a pediatric surgeon who received her training in Philadelphia under the guidance of Dr. C. Koop. The family returned to New York in 1973. In 1974 Dr. So became a member of BSK Pediatric Surgical Associates. He was an honored member of this practice for 20 years. He was a member of many medical societies, but his proudest was The American Pediatric Surgical Association. Dr. So was on the staff of many hospitals and was chosen to be the chief of the division of pediatric surgery at Northshore University Hospital in Manhasset, LI. He was the first to perform a procedure for the cure of Hirschsprung's Disease in the newborn without the need for a colostomy. He reported this procedure in 1980 and is now performed by most pediatric surgeons worldwide. Besides his devotion to family, patients and collegues he will be remembered for his singing of the ''oldies'' in the operating room and of course his great love for his garden. I met Henry on a Monday morning in 1974, I took him on rounds. My mother-in-law, with whom I lived, met him as well, and she fell in love with him. Why not? He was a Chinse doctor who spoke Yiddish to her. On a handshake he started his career the next day and it was the best decision we ever made. A soft spoken, gentle soul, you could not help being touched by him and it lasted forever. In all our daily lives he represented the best and will be dearly missed. Services to be held on Tuesday, May 8, at 11 AM, at Our Lady of Hope, Westbury, NY. David L. Schwartz, M.D. Neil D. Kutin, M.D. Jerrold M. Becker, M.D. Keith Schneider, M.D. (deceased) Thomas K. Lee, M.D. Erwin Krasna, M.D. and all of the Office Staff of BSK
      