
        MENDIK - Bernard H. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of Bernard H. Mendik, our cherished friend, devoted supporter and generous benefactor over many years. The Department of Otolaryngology received its first advanced operating microscope in the 1980s, thanks to Mr. Mendik's farsightedness and generosity. A Professorship was endowed in his name in 1998-a major contribution that has enhanced the Medical Center's reputation and its outstanding achievements in the field of Otolaryngology. As a Trustee on the Foundation Board of NYU School of Medicine, he took his commitment to our institution to an even higher level, bringing a spirit of joyful leadership to his new role. A successful attorney, dynamic real estate entrepreneur, avid philanthropist, skier, tennis player and fly fisherman, Mr. Mendik was that rare, multifaceted individual who brought joy and zest to every aspect of life. He will be missed by all whose lives he touched. We send our deepest condolences to his family and loved ones. Kenneth Langone, Chairman NYU School of Medicine Foundation Board of Trustees Robert M. Glickman, M.D., Dean NYU School of Medicine Theresa A. Bischoff, President NYU Hospitals Center Noel L. Cohen, M.D. Bernard H. Mendik Professor and Chairman, Department of Otolaryngology, NYU Medical Center
        MENDIK-Bernard. Bernie has the unusual ability to be both a very serious and productive person and professional as well as someone who lived life joyously and most fully. His skiing, tennis, fishing and friendship attest to the latter, while devotion to his family, accomplishments in the real estate industry and philanthropy are evidence of the former. He was an enthusiastic and delightful friend, and an extraordinary benefactor to the New York University School of Medicine, where he was a member of the Board of Trustees. We will always be grateful to him and will miss him terribly. Noel L. Cohen, MD Mendik Foundation Professor and Chairman Department of Otolaryngology New York University School of Medicine
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Bernard Mendik, a cherished friend, admired for his generous contributions to humanitarian causes. He will be fondly remembered as an extraordinary leader and as a highly respected figure in the city's real estate community. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Susan; to his children, Laurie, Kevin, Todd, and Alex; to his five grandchildren; to his sister, Sandra Getz; and to his entire family. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair and President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        MENDIK-Bernard. The City College of New York mourns the passing of Bernard Mendik, a 1954 graduate of CCNY. One of New York's most successful and respected real estate investors, Mr. Mendik combined business success, civic leadership and philanthropy to the benefit of our city and his Alma Mater. He was awarded an Honarary Doctor of Laws degree from CCNY in 1995. On behalf of The City College faculty, students and alumni, I wish to extend my deepest sympathy to his wife Susan and their family. Stanford A. Roman, Jr. Interim President The City College of New York/ CUNY
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Board of Governors, members and staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of its leader for the last decade and a giant in our industry, Bernard H. Mendik. Bernie loved and cared about New York and he played an integral part in shaping its skyline. Bernie brought wisdom, compassion and a sense of humor to all his professional and civic endeavors. We express our deepest sympathy to his lovely wife Suzy, his four wonderful children, and the entire Mendik family. Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Emeritus Steve Spinola, President
        MENDIK-Bernard. We are so deeply saddened by the loss of our long time family friend. His kindness, intelligence, compassion and wonderful advice have been a presence in our life and business for over 40 years. We will never forget him and the friendship and concern he always gave our family. His encouragement helped Ambassador Construction get its start. He was truly one of the last ''Pioneers'' of our city. We extend our deepest condolences to Susan, the children and grandchildren. Esther, Cory, Jay and Juliet Koven
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Board of Directors, the District Management Association and the entire staff of the Grand Central Partnership mourn the loss of our former Chairman and longtime Board member. As a leader and a mentor, we will miss his guidance, wisdom and friendship. Our heart felt condolences to his family, friends and those who have been touched by his life. Peter S. Kalikow, Chairman Alfred C. Cerullo, III, President/CEO
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc., is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our esteemed colleague, Bernie Mendik. He was a towering figure in real estate, whose vision, dedication and principles earned him the respect of the entire industry. We extend our deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to his family. Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc.
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Farewell dear friend for over thirty-five years. Your charm, personality, wisdom, and deep thinking will be missed by our entire family. Your tireless efforts as ''Chairman-forLife'' will be sorely missed by our industry and indeed by the City of New York. Our deepest condolences to Suzie and your children and grandchildren. Judy and Burt Resnick and the entire Resnick family.
        MENDIK-Bernard H. We extend our deepest sympathy to Susan and the entire Mendik family on your heartfelt loss. The real estate community and all who love this City mourn the passing of a valued friend and an exemplary gentleman. Sylvan Lawrence Company, Inc. Seymour Cohn, Chairman Charles L. Goldenberg, President
        MENDIK-Bernie. Not only were you a leader in our industry and city, but a great friend and mentor working with you at the Real Estate Board. Our deepest condolences to Bernie's family which I know he cherished and loved the most. Edward A. Riguardi, Co-Chairman Colliers ABR, Inc.
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Alliance for Downtown New York, Inc. mourns the passing of our friend and former Director, and the unsung hero of Downtown's renaissance. We will miss him. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Robert R. Douglass, Chairman Carl Weisbrod, President
        MENDIK-Bernard H. You inspired so many, but few had the unique privilege of being with you day by day for over 20 years. Your insight, wisdom, dignity and sense of fairness forever will be a part of me. Our love & warmth for Suzy, Alex, Todd, Kevin, and Laurie. We all will miss a great man. Laureine and David Greenbaum
        MENDIK-Bernard. Lincoln Square Synagogue records with sorrow the passing of our benefactor and friend, Mr. Bernard Mendik. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Adam Mintz, Rabbi Ken Cappell, President
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Susan, and his family. Corey B. Rabin, President Ronald M. Stuart, Secretary
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Our deepest sympathy to Susan on the loss of her wonderful husband, and his children on the loss of their father. Bernard was a partner and a friend. He was loved and will be missed by all of us. Mariana and George Kaufman
        MENDIK-Bernard. With our deepest sympathy to Susan on the loss of her husband and to his children on the loss of their father. Bernie was an inspiration to everyone and will live on in our memories. Mary, Peter, Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow
        MENDIK-Bernard. We will miss Bernie who was a special friend of many years and a real mensch. Our sincere condolences to Susan and all of the Mendik family. Helen and Irving Schneider
      