
        BELL-Mary Fischer. Mary Fischer Bell's long and f ull life ended peacefully on May 8, 2001. Born Mary Agatha Fischer in Newark, NJ on June 25, 1912, she grew up in the Bronx, attended St. A thanasius School, and graduated from Ursuline Academy. Mary earned a B.A. in History from the College of New Rochelle in 1934. She was ma rried to the late Ralph Herbert Bell from July 16, 1943, until his de ath on June 4, 1995. Mary had a brief but memorable career as a fift h grade teacher at Epiphany School in the early 1960's, but her true life's work outside of the home was volunteer service to others. Mary was devoted to her alma mater. On June 7, 1969, she was a warded the Ursula Laurus Citation by the College of New Rochell e ''honoring alumnae who have provided outstanding leadership and have demonstrated selfless and generous devotion in furthering high ideals and rich traditions of Ursuline education.'' On June 2, 1979, Mary received the highest award given by the College of New Rochelle, the Angela Merici Medal. She is responsible, along with her late hu sband, for a scholarship fund at the College, and for the Ralph H. Bell Reading Room in the new College library. She served as the Class o f 1934, fund agent for over twenty years and was a longtime member of the Board of Directors of the Alumnae Association. Mary was an active leader in Epiphany Parish for over fifty years. When, in 1964, the church building was destroyed by fire, she helped raise funds to b uild the present church. She was a Trustee of the Parish for fou r years. Mary was a founding Board member and the first chairperson of the Board of FISH (Friends in Service to the Housebound) at Epiphany Parish. She gave tirelessly to this effort for many years an d helped bring comfort, sustenance and companionship to countle ss housebound people. The March of Dimes, American Association o f University Women and the Ladies of Charity were among the other causes to which she gave of herself. Among other recognitions of her devoted service, Mary received the New York Archdiocesan Silve r Cross and Thanks Badge, the highest honor bestowed by the Girl Scouts of America. Mary was aunt to thirtynine nieces and nephews, and followed their lives and the lives of their children closely. Mary' s interest in others extended to families of her children's spouses, and friends of her family members. Numerous photographs of child ren adorned a large bulletin board next to her telephone. Birthdays, Easter, Christmas, St. Patrick's Day, wedding anniversaries, Mo ther's Day and Father's Day all saw scores of delivery vehicles acro ss the country deliver beautiful floral arrangements sent by Mary. While in her seventies, Mary lost her ''Book of Life'' in which she had collected names, addresses, birthdays, and anniversary dates. Sh e tirelessly reconstructed her book, concerned that she might miss an occasion to pass along her love and greetings. Other instances of her generosity, both to groups and individuals are too numerous to r ecount. Mary Fischer Bell was preceded in death by her husband, Ralph H. Bell, her parents, William Fischer and Katherine Towey Fischer, he r brother William Fischer, Jr. and her sister Patricia Fischer Weber. She is survived by her three daughters, Elizabeth Bell LeVaca, Katherine M. Bell, Roberta Bell Williamson, her sons - in - law, J oseph LeVaca, Thomas Blackburn and Bruce Williamson, Jr., and he r four grandchildren, Christopher Eric Fuhrman and his wife Jean Fl ores Fuhrman, Jennifer Anne Fuhrman, Erin Mary Williamson, and Sarah Elizabeth Williamson. Mary is also survived by her brother, Jo hn Fischer and his wife Eleanor Fischer, and her sisters, Kathryn Mos eley Davis and her husband Lou Davis, Helen Fischer, Joan Fischer Popylisen and her husband Daniel Popylisen, and Claire Fischer Adilet ta and her husband Joseph Adiletta, and by her nieces, nephews, g randnieces and nephews and friends. The family will receive visitors at Gannon's Funeral Home, 152 East 28th Street, NY, NY on May 10 from 2:00PM to 5:00PM and 7:00PM to 9:00PM. Mary's life will be celebrated in a funeral Mass at Epiphany Church on May 11, at 10:00AM. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that a donation be made in her name to the Ralph and Mary Bell Scholarship Fund, t he College of New Rochelle, New Rochelle, New York 10805.
      