
        ARFFA-Stanley H. Beloved and devoted husband, father, grandfather, brother, friend and active member of many Jewish and other organizations. Born August 6, 1923, in Kerhonksen, New York. After serving in both World War II and the Korean War, he moved to New Haven, Connecticut, where he was Vice-President of Interstate Container Corporation and then for 30 years, the Exeuctive Vice-President and part owner of Connecticut Container Corporation, a corrugated products manufacturer in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont. He served as President of Tower One, a residence for the elderly in New Haven affiliated with UJA-Federation; President of Sage Services, an interfaith organization assisting seniors with employment; President of Jewish Education in New Haven; VicePresident of the New Haven Jewish Federation and the Jewish Community Council; Co-Chair of the Committee of Development for Establishing the Jewish Studies Department of Yale University; for 15 years the delegate of New Haven to the Jewish Agency for Israel; and a member of the Boards of Directors of many organizations, including the New Haven Symphony, Ezra Academy, the United Israel Appeal and the New Haven Jewish Center. He is survived by his wife Shirley of Palm Beach Gardens, Florida; his children, Dr. Robert C. of Pittsburgh, Allan J. of New York and Bonnie Perman of London; seven grandchildren; and his sister Charlotte Burkholz of Palm Desert, California. Funeral services will be held at 11 AM, on May 9, at Temple Emanu-El of Palm Beach, 190 North County Road, Palm Beach, Florida, 33480, with observance thereafter at 114B Palms Point Circle, Ballen Isles, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida 33418. Donations in lieu of flowers may be made to either the Yale University Fortunoff Video Archives for Holocaust Testimony, Sterling Memorial Library, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, or the AntiDefamamtion Legue of B'nai Birth, 324 Datura Street, Suite 223, West Palm Beach, Florida 33401.
      