
        SCHAFFER-Geraldine. I read of a man who stood to speak at the funeral of his wife. With strength and courage he referred to the dates on her tombstone from the beginning to the end. He noted that first came the date of her birth and spoke of the second with tears, but he said that what mattered most of all was the dash between those years. For that dash represents all the time that she spent on earth and now only those whose loved her know what that little line is worth. For it matters not how much we own, the cars, the house, the cash. What matters is how we lived and loved when we're living out the dash. If we could just slow down enough to consider what is true and what is real and always try to understand the way other people feel and be less quick to anger and show appreciation more and love the people in our lives like we never loved before. If we treat each other with respect & often wear a smile, remember that the special dash will only last a while. So when your eulogy is being read, your life's actions to rehash, will you be pleased with what there is to say, about how you spent your dash? She was truly an AISHES CHAYIL (a woman of valor). A Jewish woman married to her beloved husband for over six decades, a caring and loving mother and grandmother. She exemplified to all what a true and loving person she was. Her star is not extinguished. Her star is just diminished. When her family and friends look up to the sky her light will shine down and continue to guide the family. She will be a liaison between HASHEM and her family & friends. She will speak on our behalf. Heartfelt condolences to the family. May they be consoled among the mourners of Zion and may her memory always be a blessing to all. The Feldman Family
        SCHAFFER-Geraldine. Beloved wife for 66 years of Irving. Devoted mother of Peter, Andrew, Rick and Robin. Loving grandmother of 15 grandchildren. Services Thursday, 1:00 PM, Temple Israel Center of White Plains, 280 Old Mamaroneck Road. For further information call Plaza Jewish Community Chapel 212-769-4400.
        SCHAFFER-Geraldine. The officers and members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member, Geraldine Schaffer. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband Irving, to her children and other members of her family. Samuel G. Weinberg, President
      