
        MEISTER-Wendy A. On May 5, 2001, at the age of 57, after a long and valiant four and a half year battle with cancer. Beloved wife, mother and best friend to her husband Robert and sons Todd and Keith. Loving daughter to her father, the late Sidney Alexander, and her mother Selma. Devoted sister to Gail Mason and Richard Alexander. Wendy was a graduate of New York University and Columbia University. She received a masters degree and taught science to young people. She was also active in and contributed to a number of philanthropic causes including Share Zedak Hospital, The Anti-Defamation League, Botanical Garden, the Helen and Harry Gray Cancer Center, and the Palm Beach Garden Club. Her greatest legacy was her fierce, passionate devotion and deep commitment to her family and friends. Her keen mind and strong character combined with her wit and wisdom will be deeply missed by all who came in contact with her. Her compassion for others will always be remembered as a hallmark of her life. She touched so many in so few years. Funeral services will be held on Monday, May 7, at 12 PM, at Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51 St. Interment to follow. The shiva will be held at 834 5th Ave, NYC, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, 7-9 PM. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the Pediatric Center at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in NYC.
        MEISTER-Wendy. Wendy, your passing is our loss; but your presence on Earth has left it a better place. Like Miriam, Moses' sister, you were a woman who had arms to carry and hug; hands to build, craft, and shape; ears to hear the needs and worries, fears and hopes of friends; eyes to see the past in its perspective and envision the future; a will that took you through this struggle like a brave warrior; and a heart of gold that only saw the goodness in so many. We will miss your friendship, humor, companionship, laughter and beauty, and physical presence; but, you will forever be in our hearts; and we were gifted to have you as a dear friend. Our deepest sympathies to Bob, Todd, Keith, and Arlene for your incredible loss, and our admiration for the devotion, which you have all shown. Go in peace, dear friend. With love, Laura and John
        MEISTER-Wendy. Wendy will forever be my best friend. She was Aunt Wendy to Jarret and Tracy. She shared in my family's triumphs and sadness. Wendy is my hero, her tenacity, courage and unwavering belief that she could beat her illness helped carry all of us who loved her. I promised Wendy to watch over her children, Todd and Keith, and her husband, Bob. She loved them deeply and unconditionally. Her love of life will live through all of us that she loved and touched. I was so lucky she was my frend. Rest in peace my angel. All my love. Arlyne
        MEISTER-Wendy. On behalf of the Board of Governors and the entire membership of the Palm Beach Country Club, we record with profound sorrow the passing of our dear friend and fellow member, Wendy Meister. Wendy was a lady of rare beauty whose loveliness and courage we were privileged to share for years that were rich in content but too few in number. Our hearts go out to Robert, Todd, and Keith, and all who loved and admired Wendy as we did. David Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary
        MEISTER-Wendy. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Wendy Meister. Without her, the world will be a little less beautiful, warm, elegant and much less fun. Our deepest sympathies to Bob, Todd and Keith and the rest of the family. We have been honored to be a part of the life of such a special woman. We will always love her and miss her. Roberta and Richard Brudner and Family
        MEISTER-Wendy. Sutton Place Synagogue extends profound sympathies to benefactor and past Trustee, Robert Meister and sons Todd and Keith, on the loss of their adored wife and mother. Condolences to the entire bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President Philip Sassower Executive Committee Chair
        MEISTER-Wendy. Dearest Wendy, you had a sense of beauty, both inside and out, a gentleness that attracted friends to you, a strength that will serve as an inspiration forever. We treasured our friendship, we loved you very much, and we will miss you greatly. All our love forever. Ellen and Bob Jaffe
        MEISTER-Wendy. The officers and members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member, Wendy Meister. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband Robert, to her children and other members of her family. Samuel G. Weinberg, President
        MEISTER-Wendy. A beautiful woman of great valor who we knew and loved for 25 years. Heartfelt condolences to Bob, Todd and Keith. Love, Karen and Marty Berger
        MEISTER-Wendy. Dear Wendy, your love of family, friends and life will remain in our hearts forever. You're the best. Love and kisses. Dennis and Michael
        MEISTER-Wendy A. Devoted friend, loving confidante, whose concern, wit and compassion will be treasured always. In loving memory. Kathy and Alan D. Bleznak
        MEISTER-Wendy. Beloved and devoted friend who added so much to our lives. We will miss her. The Weissman Family
        MEISTER-Wendy. We will miss our beloved friend, Wendy Meister. The Pashcow Family
        MEISTER-Wendy. Our hearts go out to Bob, Todd, Keith, her family and her dearest friend, Arlene. You were a special friend of our family. Your love and counsel will live on with us. The Bermans Phyllis, Marty, Mark and Alison
      