
        BOND-Simon. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the demise of a warm and sympathetic friend and honorary alumnus who with his late wife, Tekla, was a Benefactor whose generosity paralleled his longevity. Mr. Bond's life stretched over three centuries-from 1897 in his native Poland to the United States in 2001-during which he exhibited remarkable verve and wisdom till almost the last day of his life. A success in the business world, his interest in Jewish education, the synagogue, Israel, and scientific research endeared him to many. We shall miss him sorely and remember him fondly. Heartfelt condolences are extended to all members of the family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Robert M. Beren, Chairman, Board of Trustees Yeshiva University
        BOND-Simon (Sasha). The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Simon Bond, cherished friend and devoted supporter of the Weizmann Institute. Among his generous gifts to the Institute was the Tekla and Simon Bond Fund for Submicron Electronics Research, established to support advanced technology. Sasha was a dedicated member of the ACWIS Board of Directors and an enthusiastic member of the President's Circle. We extend sincere condolences to the entire family. Robert H. Asher, Chairman, American Committee Albert Willner, M.D., President Martin Kraar, Exec. V.P. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Haim Harari, President
        BOND-Simon. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Simon Bond, a dear friend and extraordinary philanthropist who was deeply admired for his compassionate commitment to the Jewish communtiy. Through his devotion to Jewish education, he is helping generations of Jewish children develop pride in their religious and cultural heritage. As a cherished leader in our organization, he will be fondly remembered for his wisdom, kindness, and generous spirit. We extend our sincerest condolences to his son, Leo. James S. Tisch, President Larry Zicklin, Board Chair and President-Elect John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
      