
        KIAM-Victor K. Died peacefully on May 27th. Beloved husband of Ellen, loving father of Lisa, Tory and Robin; beloved father-in-law of Elena and Jonathan; devoted grandfather of Jenny, Alexander, Sophia, Caleigh and Lia. Donations may be made to: Divison of Cardiology, Weill-Cornell Medical College, 1300 York Ave., New York, N.Y. 10021, attention: Dr. David Blumenthal or the Entrepreneurship Fund of Harvard Business School, Soldiers Field, Boston, MA. 02163, attention: Florence Amoroso, Asst. Director, Fund Office, or 92nd St. Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10128
        KIAM-Victor K. To the ever so loving Kiam family, from Victor K. Kiam's friends, neighbors and staff at 630 Park Avenue. We extend our deepest and most sincere sympathies at the loss of the man who has been our Board President for over 30 years. Victor was our building's leader. He was a friend to all of his neighbors and they trusted him as the loyal, wise elder who kept everyone's concerns close to his heart. We knew him as someone blessed with warmth and affection. During the recent annual shareholders meeting, it was Mr. Kiam who lauded one of our staff members for his years of consistently fine performance before suggesting we honor that person as he approached a major milestone in his life. A small gesture to be sure, but one that spoke volumes about Victor's deeply felt sense of loyalty. It was not the first time this good man demonstrated the meaning of the word ''gentleman.'' He was that in every respect. We are grateful to him for being so completely himself-courageous, optimistic, compassionate and relentlessly encouraging. Victor was one of those rare people who was not afraid to extend his love to everyone. He had a remarkable talent for making all of us feel at ease in his presence. His cheerful disposition will be missed, but never forgotten. Those of us who knew him are made poorer by his absence, but richer for having shared in his great charm, hardy good humor, sharp intellect and, most of all, his enduring friendship.
        KIAM-Victor K. Dear Victor, a heart of gold and charisma, a unique combination. My hero and beloved confidante and friend. You know you were my personal and professional role model and mentor. An uncanny ability to make everyone around you feel incredibly special. You gave to all without expecting anything in return. Victor, you and Ellen have built a family that will always be my foundation. Thank you for including me in your family and heart. I will always cherish our time spent together, and your inner strength and beauty will always serve as my guide. I will love and support your family forever, and you can rest assured that they will continue to ''go for it'' in life and in tennis! Love always, Jay B. Horowitz
        KIAM-Victor. We celebrate the life of our friend of forty-five years, Victor Kiam. He was a presence, a force, a personality. He lived life with zest, with gusto, with passion. He steered around curves others thought too sharp, climbed mountains others thought too steep, leapt chasms others thought too wide. And he triumphed, and he succeeded, and he won. He brought exhilaration and exuberance to all our lives. We shall all miss him mightily. Our hearts and love go out to Ellen, Lisa, Tory, Robin, and the rest of the family. Sandy and Ed Meyer
        KIAM-Victor. Victor's enthusiasm, enjoyment of life, and positive attitude enriched our lives. We will miss our good friend, Life Master bridge opponent, and tennis champion buddy. To his wonderful family, we send our love and sympathy. Betty and John
        KIAM-Victor. We, and others who knew and loved him as we did, have lost a true, caring and very loyal friend. Victor was truly oneof-a-kind, and we will miss him terribly. Our love and condolences to Ellen, Lisa, Tory and Robin. Sue and Bob Tofel
        KIAM-Victor. You were a unique and very special man-as an innovator, a marketer, a visionary, a friend, husband, parent and grandparent. You will be sorely missed by so many. Joanne and Norman
        KIAM-Victor. The Renaissance Man. The Ultimate Showman. Ellen's Love. Lisa, Tory and Robin's Super Dad. Best Boppa. My Hero! Love, Merel Cayne
        KIAM-Victor K. He never was amongst those timid souls who knew neither victory nor defeat. Larry Phillips
      