
        MENDIK-Bernard H. On May 28, 2001 at age 72. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of Laurie, Kevin, Todd and Alex. Adoring grandfather of Marty, Gabriel, Dawson, Mary Ashley. Dear brother of Sandy Getz. Devoted uncle of Karen and Shari. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday, May 29th, 2-5 and 7-9pm. Services at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65 Street Wednesday, May 30, 10AM. Interment private.
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The President, the Board of Trustees and the entire Montefiore community deeply mourn the untimely death of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Bernard H. Mendik. A devoted member of the Montefiore Board of Trustess since 1982 and a past member of its Executive Committee, Bernard Mendik was actively engaged in the leadership of the medical center throughout his tenure and was fully committed to improving the quality of health of countless Montefiore patients and residents of the Bronx and Westchester. A man of both vision and compassion, Bernard Mendik melded extraordinary skills of business with philanthropy to enrich the lives of countless individuals. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his beloved wife, Susan; his children, Kevin, Todd, Alexander and Laurie; his sister, Sandra Gertz; and his four grandchildren. Spencer Foreman, MD, President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The entire New York Law School community is saddened at the loss of our dear friend, Bernard H. Mendik, class of 1958 and past Chair and current member of our Board of Trustees. His inspirational leadership and guidance will continue to benefit generations of New York Law School students. The magnificent Mendik Library stands as a testament of his dedication to the School he loved. We will always remember Bernie's resourcefulness, imagination, wit, and generosity. Our Trustees, faculty, staff and alumni/ae extend heartfelt condolences to Susan and the entire Mendik family. Arthur N. Abbey, Chairman, Board of Trustees Richard A. Matasar, President and Dean
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Board of Governors, members and staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of its leader for the last decade and a giant in our industry, Bernard H. Mendik. Bernie loved and cared about New York and he played an integral part in shaping its skyline. Bernie brought wisdom, compassion and a sense of humor to all his professional and civic endeavors. We express our deepest sympathy to his lovely wife Suzy, his four wonderful children, and the entire Mendik family. Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Emeritus Steve Spinola, President
        MENDIK-Bernard. It is hard to believe that our longtime friend is gone. Caring, charitable, personable and intelligent, Bernie had an exuberance for life and was respected & loved by anyone fortunate enough to know him. Through all of his years, Bernie never lost perspective of what was important, most of all his wife Susan, children Alex, Todd, Kevin and Laurie and grandchildren. Our heart goes out to Susan, who has been our friend and colleague for more years than we can count, & who shared a strong & wonderful relationship with Bernie. Friedman Alpren & Green LLP
        MENDIK-Bernard H. On behalf of the Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York, we extend our profound sorrow at the untimely passing of one of the true giants of the industry. A Vice President of the Foundation, Bernie was always supportive and active in our philanthropies. A true friend, a gentleman. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Susan, his children, grandchildren and to all who knew and loved him. We are deeply saddened and will miss him dearly. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of The Jewish Guild for the Blind are deeply saddened by the death of Bernard H. Mendik, our esteemed Trustee and former Board Chairman. His knowledge and leadership played a paramount role in making The Guild one of the nation's foremost vision care agencies. His enthusiastic support and his compassion for visually impaired and blind people everywhere will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to all of the Mendik family. Joseph S. Mishkin, Chairman Alan R. Morse, President & CEO
        MENDIK-Bernard. A man of uncommon intellect and wit, a passionate man, a man of great and unassailed integrity, a wonderful husband, a devoted father, a man who cared deeply about his friends. He carried deep within him a well formed sense of justice & compassion, a man of principle. He lived his life with vigor and enthusiasm and brought everyone else along for the ride. We feel sorry for all those people who will go through life without ever knowing a Bernie Mendik. We were so fortunate to have Bernie as our friend. We will miss him forever. Arlene and Larry Reed
        MENDIK-Bernard. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Bernard Mendik. A long time friend and member of our Real Estate Division. Bernie was a generous supporter and advocate of ADL's agenda. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Susan, children, and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director Howard P. Berkowitz President, ADL Foundation
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Board of Directors, the District Management Association and the entire staff of the Grand Central Partnership mourn the loss of our former Chairman and longtime Board member. As a leader and a mentor, we will miss his guidance, wisdom and friendship. Our heart felt condolences to his family, friends and those who have been touched by his life. Peter S. Kalikow, Chairman Alfred C. Cerullo, III, President/CEO
        MENDIK-Bernard. The City University of New York mourns the passing of Bernard Mendik, City College Class of 1954, a member of the CUNY Business Leadership Council and a longtime friend of higher education. His longstanding work on behalf of civic and philanthropic goals will be long remembered. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Herman Badillo, Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew Goldstein, Chancellor
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Bernie Mendik's glass was never half full, it was always overflowing. He blessed our City and our times abundantly. The world will toil on, made darker without him, but the lives he touched will always shine with his great humor, his insight and intelligence, his generosity, and his enduring friendship. Our love and deepest condolences to his much cherished family. Lary Wolf and the Partners of Roberts & Holland LLP
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The partners, senior counsel, associates and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the passing of our dear friend and longtime client. Bernie's wisdom, dedication and loyalty inspired us. His tenacity built our city. His smile charmed us. His special style defined New York. We extend our condolences to Susan, Laurie, Kevin, Todd and Alex. Alan S. Jaffe and Lawrence J. Lipson Proskauer Rose LLP
        MENDIK-Bernard. We will always miss our wonderful Bernie-brother, friend, and life's mentor to his younger sister, Sandi and her husband Howard. Uncle Bernie to Karen and Shari-much more than an uncle to us, an uncle also to their husbands, Michael and Michael. Doting great uncle to Jessica, Lindsay and Cameron. His kindness, humor, generosity and wisdom will always be missed. We will forever try to emulate him in kind and deed.
        MENDIK-Bernard H. You were a man of wisdom, wit, character, honesty, integrity, warmth and humanity. You always told it the way you saw it. You were a role model and a mensch. In whatever you did, you were our ''Chairman for life.'' You will be remembered and missed by us, our industry and a grateful city of New York. We love you very much. Our heartfelt condolences to Suzy and your entire family. Linda and Sandy Lindenbaum
        MENDIK-Bernard. To my former Partner and mentor, we had 13 great years together. You taught me about real estate and about life. You always carried yourself with class. Our industry, our city and all of us who benefited from your life will miss you. Marjorie and I send our heartfelt condolences to Susie, Todd, Kevin, Laurie and Alex. James D. Kuhn, President Newmark & Company R.E. Inc.
        MENDIK-Bernard H. It is with great sadness to say goodbye to a great friend and outstanding person. A leader in our community who was tireless and devoted to causes he believed in that benefited all of us. His passing is a great loss for his family, his friends, and all those he touched. He will be missed and honored for a long time. Your friend and colleague, Harry Macklowe
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc., is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our esteemed colleague, Bernie Mendik. He was a towering figure in real estate, whose vision, dedication and principles earned him the respect of the entire industry. We extend our deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to his family. Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc.
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Farewell dear friend for over thirty-five years. Your charm, personality, wisdom, and deep thinking will be missed by our entire family. Your tireless efforts as ''Chairman-forLife'' will be sorely missed by our industry and indeed by the City of New York. Our deepest condolences to Suzie and your children and grandchildren. Judy and Burt Resnick and the entire Resnick family.
        MENDIK-Bernard. Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc. is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our esteemed colleague, Bernie Mendik. He was a towering figure in real estate, whose vision, dedication and principles earned him the respect of the entire industry. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc.
        MENDIK-Bernard. The Board of Directors and Members of the Association for a Better New York mourn the loss of our longtime friend and member. He was a strong and effective leader of the real estate industry, and we will all miss him. Heartfelt condolences to Susan and the Mendik family. Lewis Rudin, Chairman Association for a Better New York
        MENDIK-Bernard. Costas Kondylis of Costas Kondylis, & Partners, Architects, extend their deepest sympathy on the loss of Mr. Bernard Mendik, to his immediate family, and business associates. Bernie, distinguished himself because of his contributions to the real estate industry but most of all, he had a lasting impression on those who knew him and worked with him.
        MENDIK-Bernard. Beloved trustee and parent at Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School. Our trustees, parents, faculty and students join together to express their deepest sympathies to the Mendik family for their tragic loss. Our school was blessed to have his leadership, guidance and friendship. He will be deeply missed. Dr. Richard J. Soghoian Headmaster
        MENDIK-Bernie. How fortunate we were to know you. You had that rare quality of making everyone around you feel special and important. Not withstanding your great success, you disdained pretense and embraced honor and integrity. Words are inadequate to convey the loss to your immediate family and your legion of friends. You will not be forgotten. Diane and Arthur Abbey
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Board of Directors of the City College Fund expresses its deep sorrow with the loss of our esteemed Board Member, Bernard H. Mendik. We will long remember his generosity and devotion to the City College of New York. Stanley H. Kaplan, Chair Herbert Robinson, President James L. Schatz, Exec. Dir.
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Fifth Avenue Business Improvement District mourns the loss of one of its Founding Directors and most enthusiastic supporters. One of this cities genuine good guys, he will be sorely missed. Our condolences go to Suzy and the Mendik Family. Ralph Destino, Chairman Tom Cusick, President
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Mentor, partner, friend. He gave us valuable lessons of life in our real estate profession. He will be dearly missed by all. Condolences to the family. Hon. Charles A. Lefkowitz Michael Lefkowitz, Esq. Todd Mendik Charles Alter Realty Three Partners
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Officers, Executive Committee, and Board of Directors of NYC & Company note with deep sorrow the passing of our Member and good friend. Bernie was a man of infinite grace, and wise counsel. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, Susan, and his family. Tim Zagat, Chairman Cristyne L. Nicholas, Pres
        MENDIK-Bernard H. We extend our sympathies to Susan and your children. Bernie was a wonderful man, a devoted husband & father, full of insights, joy and humor. From skiing to tennis, golf, real estate, a joy, a pleasure. You played the game so well always a winner, someone to look up to. Sadly, we will miss him. Harry, Linda and Billy Macklowe
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America extend their deepest sympathy to the family of our friend and benefactor, Bernie Mendik. His tireless efforts and affection for Scouting will long be remembered. John F. McGillicuddy, President Daniel R. Gasparo, Scout Executive
        MENDIK-Bernard. The Board of Governors of the Bronx High School of Science Endowment Fund, Inc. and the entire Bronx Science community mourn the passing of our dear friend, Bernard Mendik, Class of '47. Throughout the years, his outstanding support made it possible for Science students to achieve their dreams.
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Cohen, Roos and Carmel families, along with many others at GVA Williams extend our condolences to the entire Mendik family upon the passing of our longtime friend, Bernie. This dynamic person will long be remembered for the many contributions he made to the city and to the real estate industry.
        MENDIK-Bernard H. It is with deep sadness that we mourn the passing of our dear friend Bernie Mendik. He was a great New Yorker, a titan of our industry and a true gentleman. Our condolences to his wife Susan, children Kevin, Todd, Alexander and Laurie, and his entire family. Fisher Brothers
        MENDIK-Bernard H. You inspired so many, but few had the unique privilege of being with you day by day for over 20 years. Your insight, wisdom, dignity and sense of fairness forever will be a part of me. Our love & warmth for Suzy, Alex, Todd, Kevin, and Laurie. We all will miss a great man. Laureine and David Greenbaum
        MENDIK-Bernard. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Bernie Mendik. He was a legend and leader in his field of real estate, and he was loved and revered by everyone who knew him. Our sympathy to Susan and her family. Bernie, we will miss you. Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol
        MENDIK-Bernard. I deeply mourn the loss of my dear friend, Bernie Mendik. He was a perfect example of one who understood friendship. I will never forget his deep sense of decency and humanity. Heartfelt condolences to Suzy, his children, and grandchildren. Sheldon H. Solow
        MENDIK-Bernard H. We feel a profound sense of loss with the passing of our dear friend. He inspired all those around him with his passion for life and generosity. Love to Susan and to his entire family. Bennett and Leslie Model
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Our deepest sympathy to Susan on the loss of her wonderful husband, and his children on the loss of their father. Bernard was a partner and a friend. He was loved and will be missed by all of us. Mariana and George Kaufman
        MENDIK-Bernard. With our deepest sympathy to Susan on the loss of her husband and to his children on the loss of their father. Bernie was an inspiration to everyone and will live on in our memories. Mary, Peter, Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow
        MENDIK-Bernard H. With our deepest condolences to Susan and his beautiful family. His zest for life and love of family were an inspiration to us. He will be truly missed. The Bandier Family
        MENDIK-Bernard H. We mourn the loss of our cherished friend. You were always there for us. We loved you and will always miss you. Our heartfelt sympathy to Susan and the family. Roberta and Maurice Amon
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Our heartfelt condolences to Suzy and your entire family. Bernie, we will miss your wisdom, enthusiasm, and brilliance. It was an honor to have you as our friend. Miquette and Mort Schrader
        MENDIK-Bernie. A perfect example of how a man should live his life-with grace, dignity and style. The world has lost a prince and we have lost a dear friend. Our heartfelt sympathy to Susan and his children. Sheila and David
        MENDIK-Bernard. We note with sorrow the passing of our friend and business associate. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and friends. The Feil Organization
        MENDIK-Bernard. It was a privilege to be your doctors and an honor to be your friends. Bern, you were a prince-and your size 13 will never be filled. Ellen Gendler and James Salik
        MENDIK-Bernard. The sun has set, a true star has been dimmed forever. Bernie, you were my friend, your memory will always be with me. Rest easy. Don Zucker
        MENDIK-Bernard. In memory of a true dynamo, with loving support to Suzy, Alex and the entire Mendik family. Maura O'Shea
        MENDIK-Bernie. Dear Bernie, on the tennis court of life you were always a winner. I will miss you. Robyn
        MENDIK-Bernie. A dear and wonderful friend who made his mark in business and life in general. Our heartfelt condolences to Susan and the children. Love, Karen and Marty Berger
      