
        FISHER-Suzanne. On may 12, 2001. Loving wife of Richard. Beloved daughter of Carol Ehlers. Cherished sister of Elizabeth and brothers Robert, Thomas, and David. Donations in her memory can be made to either the Animal Medical Center of NY or the ASPCA. Services private.
        FISHER-Suzanne. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved daughter-in-law of our esteemed Board member and Benefactor, Emily Fisher Landau. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        FISHER-Suzanne. The Horace Mann community deeply regrets the passing of Suzanne Fisher, cherished wife of our devoted Trustee and Alumnus, Richard Fisher. A loyal friend to many, Sue enchanted all living things with her grace and generous spirit. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family & our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Richard Fisher. Dr. Eileen Mullady Head of School Robert J. Katz '65 Chair, Board of Trustees
        FISHER-Suzanne Ehlers. You are loved and greatly missed by all of us. You were a model to us throughout your life, especially in these last months as you battled cancer with such dignity and valor. You leave a legacy of kindness that will never be forgotten. With love, Mom, Robert and Anne Marie, David, Tommy and Vera, Liz and John, and all of your nieces and nephews.
        FISHER-Suzanne. It is with deep regret that I extend my personal condolences to Richard L. Fisher, Senior Partner, Fisher Brothers, on the loss of his wife, Sue. Words cannot assuage the pain of such a great loss, but please know that your friends are with you and praying for you and Sue during this incredibly difficult time. Bill White, Chief Operating Officer Intrepid Museum Foundation
        FISHER-Suzanne. On behalf of the Intrepid Museum Foundation and the Board, I would like to express my sincerest condolences to my brother Richard on the loss of his beloved wife Sue. She was truly loved and it pains me to imagine life for the Fisher family without her. M. Anthony Fisher, Chairman Intrepid Museum Foundation
        FISHER-Suzanne. The Board of Trustees of Fisher House Foundation, Inc. mourn the passing of Sue Fisher. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to Richard and to his family. Arnold Fisher, Chairman Kenneth Fisher, Vice Chairman Michael Stern, Vice Chairman Fisher House Foundation
        FISHER-Suzanne Ehlers. Dear Sue, you were a loving member of our family. We admired greatly your courage and fortitude in your fight against cancer. You knew how much we all loved you and you will always be in our hearts. Emily, Sheldon, Candia, Tony and Anne
        FISHER-Suzanne. The firm of Paul Hastings Janofsky and Walker LLP mourns the passing of Suzanne Ehlers Fisher, beloved wife of our respected friend and client, Richard L. Fisher, an esteemed member of the Fisher family.
        FISHER-Suzanne E. Martin and Nancy Edelman extend their deepest sympathy to the husband and family of Suzanne E. Fisher, a good friend and an inspiration. We will miss her greatly.
      