
        FEINSCHREIBER-Selven F. Was a member and President of the first graduating class of Long Island University as well as President of the Alumni Association in later years. He received his JD from Brooklyn Law School in 1935 and became a member of the New York Bar in 1936. He had the distinction of working for Fannie Holtzman, Esquire, with whom he represented media figures including Robert Alda and a number of television shows. He was the first male attorney to work as an assistant to a female attorney. He was a member of Africa House where he met and worked with Eleanor Roosevelt. Starting in 1956, he was the Registered Agent for: King George Rukidi, the Omakama of Toro, Uganda; Ghana Ministry of Trade and Labor; Rukurato Drafting Committee, Kingdom of Toro; Uganda Ministry of Minerals and Water Resources; His Highness Prince Aserate Kassa, GovernorGeneral of Eritrea; and, Cuthbert J. Obwangor, Minister of Justice of Uganda. He wrote the original Ugandan Constitution in 1962, negotiated Uganda's independence from the United Kingdom, and advised President Milton Obote. Mr. Feinschreiber was friendly with and offered advice to President Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana; President Nnamdi Azikiwe of Nigeria; President Jomo Kenyatta of Kenya; the Kabaka of Buganda; the Omugabe of Ankole, Uganda; King Henry Muloki, Kyabazinga of Busoga; President Idi Amin, Uganda; and, King Mwami Mutara Rudahigwa of Rwanda. He represented the Sudan in a United Nations conference in Geneva regarding the International Law of the Sea. Mr. Feinschreiber was advisor to the Archbishop of Haiti in 1966 then advisor to NBC International Instructional Television and Chairman of the Board for Instructional TV Systems Corp, NYC. He was the Chairman of Americans by Choice, Inc. and is credited by Senator Larry Pressler as the originator of Ethnic American Day, proclaimed by President Reagan to be September 21, 1986. Mr. Feinschreiber was born in Vilna (Vilnus) Lithuania but lived most of his life in New York. His first wife, Maxine Borodkin, died in 1980. Two children were born of that marriage. Mr. Feinschreiber moved to Key Biscayne, Florida upon his retirement. He is survived by his wife Patricia Barnett Feinschreiber, his son Robert married to Margaret Kent, his daughter Margery Glickman married to Fred Glickman, his stepsons Charles and Thomas, five grandchildren and two great grandchildren.
      