
        PRATT-Richardson, Jr. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation mourn the loss of our dear friend and Board Member, Richardson Pratt, Jr. With passion, commitment and good humor he served as a Trustee for more than eighteen years, ten of those years as the Foundation's Treasurer. Throughout his tenure, Jerry enthusiastically embraced the goals of the Foundations and used his fine intellect and interpersonal skills to advance its purposes. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to Jerry's wife, Jan, and to the rest of his family. He was a lovely man and he will be sorely missed. Winthrop R. Munyan, President Margaret C. Ayers, Executive Director
        PRATT-Richardson, Jr. The Trustees, Staff and Auxiliary of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden mourn the passing of a fine gentleman, our dear friend and Treasurer of our Board, Richardson Pratt Jr. For 27 years, Jerry brought keen financial stewardship, trusted intelligence, and unfailing good humor to bear on all Garden affairs. His abiding love of plants and our Garden will be deeply missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Jan, and his family. Earl D. Weiner, Board Chairman Judith D. Zuk, President Joanne Woodfin, Auxiliary Pres.
        PRATT-Richardson, Jr. The Board of Trustees, faculty and staff of Pratt Institute are deeply saddened by the death of Richardson Pratt, Jr., 9th president of Pratt Institute and a member of the Board of Trustees. He cared deeply about the generations of students who attended Pratt and the faculty and staff that nurtured them. his wisdom and guidance will be sorely missed. A campus memorial service will be announced at a future date. James F. Fulton, Chairman, Board of Trustees Thomas F. Schutte, President
        PRATT-Richardson (Jerry), Jr. The Trustees, Officers and staff of The Green-Wood Cemetery mourn the passing of Richardson (Jerry) Pratt, Jr., a special man whose steady guidance for 36 years as a Trustee and Chairman was of tremendous benefit to the Cemetery and its unique place in the history of the City of New York. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife and family. By Order of the Board of Trustees of The Green-Wood Cemetery
      