
        MENDIK-Bernard H. On May 28, 2001 at age 72. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of Laurie, Kevin, Todd and Alex. Adoring grandfather of Marty, Gabriel, Dawson, Mary Ashley. Dear brother of Sandy Getz. Devoted uncle of Karen and Shari. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday, May 29th, 2-5 and 7-9pm. Services at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65 Street Wednesday, May 30, 10AM. Interment private.
        MENDIK-Bernard. A man of uncommon intellect and wit, a passionate man, a man of great and unassailed integrity, a wonderful husband, a devoted father, a man who cared deeply about his friends. He carried deep within him a well formed sense of justice & compassion, a man of principle. He lived his life with vigor and enthusiasm and brought everyone else along for the ride. We feel sorry for all those people who will go through life without ever knowing a Bernie Mendik. We were so fortunate to have Bernie as our friend. We will miss him forever. Arlene and Larry Reed
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Officers and Board of Governors of The Palm Beach Country Club on behalf of our entire membership record with great sorrow the loss of our esteemed member, Bernard H. Mendik, a prominent member as well of New York real estate and philanthropic communities. Our sincere sympathy to Susan and all who cared about Bernie as we did. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary
        MENDIK-Bernard H. You were a man of wisdom, wit, character, honesty, integrity, warmth and humanity. You always told it the way you saw it. You were a role model and a mensch. In whatever you did, you were our ''Chairman for life.'' You will be remembered and missed by us, our industry and a grateful city of New York. We love you very much. Our heartfelt condolences to Suzy and your entire family. Linda and Sandy Lindenbaum
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Bernard H. Mendik. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of our fellow golfer and member, Bernie. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Susan and their family. Robert E. Morrow, President Harvey L. Radler, Secretary
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Larger than life, a special friend who wanted to share and always help. A conscience who one could always depend upon for the right answerand a real person who felt for all those around him. We loved you and will miss you. the Jurist Family
        MENDIK-Bernard H. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend and inspiration and mentor to our children. We are blessed he touched our lives. Our heartfelt sympathy to Susan and the family. May he rest in peace. Helen and Joel Lefkowitz
        MENDIK-Bernie. Our hearts and thoughts reach out to his beloved wife Susan, children and family. He was a very special ''Renaissance Man'' who enjoyed life to the fullest. He will be missed by all who knew and loved him. Irving and Barbara Rousso
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Beloved friend. You were our shining star. To know you was to love you. There is none to take your place. Our hearts go out to Susy, Alex, Todd, Kevin, Laurie and Sandy, and to their families. Sally and Steve Carb
        MENDIK-Bernard. With our deepest sympathy to Susan on the loss of her husband and to his children on the loss of their father. Bernie was an inspiration to everyone and will live on in our memories. Mary, Peter, Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow
        MENDIK-Bernard. To the family of Bernard Mendik, he was a dear friend and a outstanding gentleman who will be sorely missed. Love to his wife Susan and the Mendik children. John and Denise Calicchio
        MENDIK-Bernie. A perfect example of how a man should live his life-with grace, dignity and style. The world has lost a prince and we have lost a dear friend. Our heartfelt sympathy to Susan and his children. Sheila and David
        MENDIK-Bernard. It was a privilege to be your doctors and an honor to be your friends. Bern, you were a prince-and your size 13 will never be filled. Ellen Gendler and James Salik
        MENDIK-Bernard. The sun has set, a true star has been dimmed forever. Bernie, you were my friend, your memory will always be with me. Rest easy. Don Zucker
        MENDIK-Bernie. A dear and wonderful friend who made his mark in business and life in general. Our heartfelt condolences to Susan and the children. Love, Karen and Marty Berger
      