
        SPENCE-Hartzell. The writer and a founder of YANK the Army Weekly in World War II, died on May 9 at age 93, having made his home in Essex, CT since 1950. Best known for a novelized biography of his father titled One Foot in Heaven, Spence was the author of 15 published books and during his career wrote some 200 articles for such magazines as Saturday Evening Post, Look and Reader's Digest. Spence, born in Clarion, Iowa, Feb. 15, 1908 was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate from the University of Iowa in 1930. He served the United Press Assoc. as Iowa bureau manager and then in New York as manager of the Special Service Bureau. In 1941, with the publication of One Foot in Heaven, a best seller, book club selection and motion picture, Spence became a freelance writer. In World War II he was assigned to the Army Special Services Div. to help develop the army weekly known as YANK. Ralph Stein's book The Pin-Up credits Spence with the first use of the term pin-up to describe pretty girl photos to adorn barracks walls. Spence's prospectus for YANK said that every issue should have a full-page ''pin-up'', and the term went into general usage. Later Spence was transferred to the Army Air Corps as special assistant to Gen. Lauris Norstad. For his service Spence received the Legion of Merit in 1945. Renewing his freelance career, Spence's books included two historical novels from the Spanish conquest of South America, Vain Shadow and Bride of the Conqueror, both book club selections, and Get Thee Behind Me, about his own Methodist parsonage upbringing. He wrote The Big Top with Fred Bradna, the renowned circus ringmaster and dramatized One Foot in Heaven for network radio. His three year series of Look Magazine articles studied the 16 largest American religious groups. These articles won 23 national awards and the series was published as a book under the title The Story of America's Religions. In 1964 Spence went to the Philippines and wrote a biography of Ferdinand E. Marcos, updated in 1969 under the title Marcos of The Philippines. More info at www.livingtributes.com
      