
        DANA-Charles. The family of Charles A. Dana, Jr., of New Canaan, CT, announces with deep sorrow the loss of their husband, father, grandfather and greatgrandfather Wednesday night. We know that his generosity, his intrinsic goodness, and his warmth will be missed. But, we are much blessed for having had him as part of our lives for 86 years. He left behind his wife, Norma; three children, Marion, Charles, and Sandra; a stepson, Bruce Kendall; seven grandchildren, two stepgrandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. Services will be held on Monday, May 14 11:30 AM at St. James' Church, 865 Madison Avenue (between 71 & 72). Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the NYU Medical Center or to the Museum of the City of New York.
        DANA-Charles A. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Charles A. Dana, a most altruistic friend and benefactor. The generosity that he has shown to the Hospital for more than 20 years has enabled us to make tremendous strides in musculoskeletal research. The Dana Center for Orthopaedic Implants at Hospital for Special Surgery will continue to provide lasting testament to his generous support of these endeavors. He was a great humanitarian to whom generations of patients owe deep gratitude & from whom we can all learn the true meaning of selfless devotion. He will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Norma, and to Charlie, Sandra & Mimi. Memorial services are scheduled for 11:30AM on Monday, May 14 at St. James Episcopal Church, Madison Avenue and 71st Street, NYC. Richard L. Menschel Chairman Aldo Papone Co-Chairman Board of Trustees Russell F. Warren, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief Stephen A. Paget, M.D. Physician-in-Chief Philip D. Wilson, Jr., M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief, Emeritus John R. Reynolds President & CEO
        DANA-Charles A, Jr. The Board of Trustees of the Central Park Conservancy is deeply saddened by the death of Charles A. Dana, Jr., a dedicated leader in the revival of Central Park and husband to fellow Board member and Women's Committee founder, Norma Dana. Mr. Dana will be forever remembered in Central Park as the munificent patron who helped restore the Upper Park and provided valuable and unique nature programs to families in Central and East Harlem. The Charles A. Dana Discovery Center now serves more than 70,000 children, teens, and adults each year, and is a glorious tribute to a great man, successful business leader, and dear friend of Central Park. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Dana family. The Board of Trustees Central Park Conservancy A.J.C. Smith, Chairman Regina S. Peruggi, President
        DANA-Charles A., Jr. The Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy mourns the passing of a beloved friend, trusted advisor, and faithful supporter. His kindness, leadership, and concern for all New Yorkers was an inspiration. His philanthropy is legendary. Charlie cared a great deal about Central Park, championed its restoration, and stalwartly supported the work of the Women's Committee. We are proud that the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center stands in Central Park as a lasting tribute to his generous spirit. To Norma, his wife, a founder and devoted member of the Women's Committee, we send our condolences and love. We extend our sincere sympathy to the entire Dana family. Charlie will be greatly missed. The Women's Committee Board of Directors Susan Rudin, President
        DANA-Charles A., Jr. With deepest regret, that Charles A. Dana Foundation announces that Charles A. Dana, Jr., a founding member, died Wednesday, May 9, 2001. His generosity of spirit, his commitment to the Foundation, and his strength provided a model for the Board of Directors and the Staff. We send our deepest sympathies to his wife, Norma, his children, Charles, Sandra, and Marion, his grandchildren, his great-grandchildren, his step-sons, and other family members. The Board of Directors and Staff Charles A. Dana Foundation
        DANA-Charles A., Jr. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are deeply saddened by the death of our friend and generous benefactor. The beloved husband of longtime Trustee, Norma Dana, Charlie will be remembered for his passionate commitment to WCS and its flagship, the Bronx Zoo. Our deepest sympathies to Norma and their family. David T. Schiff, Chairman James M. Large, Jr., Acting President
        DANA-Charles A. Jr. The Directors of the Board and Staff of Freedom Institute express profound sorrow for the sudden death of Charles A. Dana, Jr. and extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Norma and all his family. He was our dear friend and loyal supporter. His great wit and strong leadership in challenging others to give to the world of nonprofits will be missed by so many. Patricia R. Mosbacher, Chairman
        DANA-Charles A. Jr. The Trustees and the staff of the Museum of the City of New York mourn the sudden passing of our beloved Trustee, Charles A. Dana, Jr. His wisdom and leadership will be sorely missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with Norma and their children at this time. Newton P.S. Merrill, Chairman Robert R. Macdonald, Director
      