
        FOX-George A. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Cooper Union mourn the passing of our treasured friend, Chairman Emeritus, benefactor and alumnus (Civil Engineering 1940), George A. Fox. He first served as president of his class, deepening his relationship with The Cooper Union over 60 years. He served as Chairman of the Board of Trustees from 1987-1995, and as a member since 1975. He is a past president of the Alumni Association and recepient of Cooper's Alumnus of the Year award and a Presidential Citation in Engineering. Awarded Cooper Union's Builder of the City Award in 1996 for his lifetime achievements and contributions to New York City and his profession, his friendship and presence at Cooper is a great loss. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Cecily, and to his children, and his grandchildren. A service will be held on Sunday, May 20, 2001 at 1 PM in The Great Hall at Cooper Union, East 7th Street at 3rd Avenue. Robert A. Bernhard, Chairman Board of Trustees Dr. George Campbell, Jr. President, The Cooper Union
        FOX-George A. United American Energy Corp. (UAE) celebrates the life of George A. Fox, who, with three other engineers, helped create a vision of building environmentally sensitive electric power generating plants as private sector businesses. George Fox was a founding member and served on the Board of Directors of UAE between 1980 and 1998. George Fox's wisdom, advice, and tenacity were instrumental in creating a sound direction for UAE and guiding the company through its start-up phase. Most importantly, George modeled a profound respect for engineering and business principals and ethics, attention to details and dignity in dealing with employees, other stakeholders and the public. George was an extraordinary engineer and a superb artist, who combined these talents to bring people together to accomplish ambitious goals. He has been a great teacher and has inspired us all. UAE has lost a valued advisor, a brilliant businessman and engineer, and a kind and special friend. David Goodman, Chairman, CEO United American Energy Corp.
        FOX-George A. The Design, Construction and Real Estate Industry of New York City has lost one of its cherished leaders. The directors and members of the New York Building Congress, which George Fox chaired from 1983 to 1986, remember a man of enormous vision and dignity. He inspired us all with his uncommon ability to bring together a diverse and often fragmented industry with his keen intellect and quiet determination. We celebrate his unsurpassed commitment to the construction field and the City of New York. George Fox left his mark on New York everywherefrom the vast subterranean tunnel structure beneath the City to the education of our youth and the highest standards of public service. All who knew him remember a unique New Yorker who cared and gave much more than he received. Jeffrey M. Levy, Chairman Richard T. Anderson, President New York Building Congress
        FOX-George A. The Alumni Association of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art deeply mourns the passing our dear friend and beloved member, George A. Fox, Civil Engineering, 1940. An outstanding volunteer since his student years, his dedication to The Cooper Union was boundless. He served as the Association's president and on its governing body. The first alumnus elected by alumni to occupy a position on The Cooper Union Board of Trustees, he received the Association's prestigious Gano Dunn Award and Alumnus of the Year Award. We will miss him. Our hearts and our deepest sympathy go out to his beloved wife, Cecily, and to his children and grandchildren. Marilyn Hoffner, President, The Cooper Union Alumni Association
        FOX-George A. George Fox, dear friend, mentor. The Goodman family met and joined hands and hearts with George, his wife Cecily and the Fox family in 1946, when George began work as a civil engineer for Charles Goodman, the president of Grow Construction Company and also a graduate of The Cooper Union. Fifty-five years later, and even after George is gone, our families, children and grandchildren will always be one. Our hearts, minds, and sprits will always be with you. Carolyn and David Goodman
        FOX-George A. Cooper Union, 1940. Survived by his devoted and galant wife, Ces, his loving family and friends. The world lost a great man and we lost a great friend, a friend of more than 60 years. I doubt that there will ever be another like him. Our love goes with him forever. May he rest in peace. Horace and Florence Linsky
        FOX-George A. We are saddened by the passing of our good friend and business associate of many decades. George was a man of extraordinary intellect, disposition, and integrity. He was fun to be with and we will miss him. We extend our love and heartfelt sympathy to Cecily and the family. Cynthia and Norman Nadel
      