
        SCHUMAN-Henry. On May 9, 2001. Beloved father of Kathy. Devoted companion of Suzette Jacobs and daughter Hayley. His thoughtful caring, generosity and humor are irreplaceable. His loss is felt by his extended family of friends around the world. Memorial service planned for a later date.
        SCHUMAN-Henry. We note with great sadness the death of Henry Schuman, Opera Orchestra's principal oboist. A classmate and friend of Maestro Queler's since their days at New York's High School of Music and Art, he had a busy career as a soloist and playing with major orchestras the world over. He has been principal oboist with Opera Orchestra since 1987. Opera Orchestra has lost a talented musician, orchestra member and wonderful friend whose warmth, wisdom and wit will be greatly missed. Our heartfeld sympathy and condolences to his daughter, of whom he was exceptionally proud, and to his many friends. Eve Queler and Opera Orchestra of New York
        SCHUMAN-Henry. We, the musicians, administration and board of directors of the American Symphony Orchestra, mourn the passing of Henry Schuman. Our esteemed colleague, Henry Schuman, was not only a musician of consummate intelligence and virtuosity, but a wonderful colleague and friend. His presence in the New York musical community will be missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Robert Fippinger, Chairman of the Board Lynne Meloccaro, Exec. Director Leon Botstein, Music Director
        SCHUMAN-Henry. Music Director Robert Spano, the musicians, the Board of Directors and staff of the Brooklyn Philharmonic mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Henry Schuman, principal oboist of the orchestra for 30 years, member of the Board and gifted musician. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Brooklyn Philharmonic Craig Matthews, President Robert Spano, Music Director Catherine M. Cahill, CEO
        SCHUMAN-Henry. The Board of Directors and the staff of the Washington Square Music Festival mourn the loss of our beloved Music Director (since 1976), Henry Schuman. Oboist, conductor, intellectual, and bon vivant, he has performed with the festival since 1960 and is an integral part of our success in presenting free classical music. Our opening concert on July 10 will be dedicated to him. Peggy Friedman, Exec. Director
      