
        GUSSAROFF-Arthur. The family of Arthur Gussaroff deeply mourns his passing on April 30th. Arthur was loved and cherished for his wit, enthusiasm, devotion, intelligence and most of all his kindness to those around him. He adored music, basketball, reading the Sunday Times and being in the company of beloved family and friends. We will always love you dearly, Arthur, and will keep you in our hearts forever. Arthur is survived by his wife of 33 years, Dr. Ellen Gussaroff, daughter Julie Gussaroff, son John Gussaroff, mother-in-law Jennie Blatt. Brother and sister-in-law Herbert and Harriet Koss, niece, Laura KossFeder and her husband Ira Feder and aunt and uncle, Esther and Mort Coley. Funeral service is today at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street at 1:30 P.M.
        GUSSAROFF-Arthur. The members and staff of Szold & Brandwen, P.C., mourn the passing of Arthur Gussaroff, dedicated attorney, valued colleague, dear friend. Admitted to bar in 1956, Arthur was a graduate of Columbia University (A.B., 1953) and Harvard Law School (J.D., 1956). A member of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, the Brooklyn and American Bar Associations and the New York County Lawyers Association, Arthur was devoted to the firm and to his clients, and deeply concerned with matters that affected the New York City community. His opinions were sought after and highly respected by colleagues and clients alike. He was a person of wisdom, humor, and compassion, who took joy in his work. He will be greatly missed.
        GUSSAROFF-Arthur. In memory of Arthur Gussaroff, who provided skilled legal counsel to our three cooperatives for many years and shared our commitment to cooperative values. Arthur's wisdom, guidance and friendship will be missed. Our deepest sympathies to his family. Amalgamated Housing Corp. Edward Yaker, President Park Reservoir Housing Corp. Howard G. Leventhal, President A.H. Consumers Society, Inc. Irving Simpson, President
        GUSSAROFF-Arthur. The Board of Directors of Penn South extends its condolences to the family of Arthur Gussaroff-longtime counsel and friend and past co-op member.
      