
        JOHNSON-Belton Kleberg. Greatgrandson of the founder of the King Ranch and a San Antonio businessman, lost his hard-fought, courageous battle with cancer May 19, 2001, surrounded by his family. Johnson was well known throughout the country and abroad as a rancher, investor, philanthropist and scion of one of the largest ranching families in the world. He was born in Baltimore November 23, 1929, to Sarah Spohn Kleberg and Henry Belton Johnson, Jr. and was orphaned at an early age. He was raised on the ranch at Kingsville, Texas by his uncle & aunt, Robert J. and Helen Kleberg, Jr. Johnson was educated at Deerfield Academy, Cornell University and Stanford University School of Business. After service in Korea as a U.S. Army lieutenant, he returned to manage the King Ranch headquarters division. Johnson was as comfortable in the boardroom of corporate America as he was at home on the ranch. He was the senior director of AT&T for many years, and chaired the Public Policy committee. Other directorships included Tenneco, Campbell Soup, Signal Companies, United States Trust Co., Hamilton Brothers Oil Co., Texas Research & Technology Foundation, Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, National Cowboy Hall of Fame & Western Heritage Center, and several Texas banks. Active in charitable causes, Johnson was a leader for years in the San Antonio United Way campaigns and served on the board of governors of United Way of America. He endowed a distinguished leadership lecture series at Virginia Military Institute in memory of his father, a 1926 graduate. Johnson purchased the Chaparrosa Ranch west of La Pryor, Texas in 1959, where he lived and raised his family. He made vast improvements on the Chaparrosa property including farming, feedlot, pasture and trophy hunting. Chaparrosa was also the home of the most prized Santa Gertrudis purebred cattle herds in the breed and, for 14 years, hosted the largest annual auction of Santa Gertrudis breeding stock. Johnson also served as president of Santa Gertrudis Breeders International during 1971-1973. In 1976, Johnson sold his interest in the King Ranch and established his own enterprise, Belton K. Johnson Interests. In addition to the Chaparrosa, he established Carmel Ranch Company in California, and acquired the historic Rancho La Puerta de Agua Dulce, and the Black Creek Ranch. Johnson's business ventures over the years included investments in oil, real estate, banking, plastics manufacturing, & a major video franchise. Two notable projects were San Antonio hotels: the Hyatt Regency, dedicated in 1981, and the Fairmount, which he had moved across town and restored in 1986. The most recent Johnson project was his biography authored by Martin Booth, entitled ''B.-The Life of Belton Kleberg Johnson''. Johnson was a member of the Bohemian Club, San Francisco; Clove Valley Rod & Gun Club, La Grangeville, NY; Club Giraud, San Antonio; Cypress Point Club, Pebble Beach, CA; Loch Lomond Golf Club, Scotland; Mark's Club, London; Metropolitan Club, New York; Plaza Club, San Antonio; San Antonio Country Club; The Argyle, San Antonio; The Order of the Alamo, San Antonio; and The American Club, Hong Kong. With his death, not only has everyone who knew him lost an admired and dear friend, but Texas is poorer for the passing of a rare spirit and a person who is (not was) in every sense a part of the state's history. It will not see the likes of him again. Johnson was preceded in death by his parents, his infant sister, Sarita, his brother, Robert Richard Shelton, his son, Belton K. Johnson, Jr., and his wife Lynne. He is survived by his loving wife, Laura McAllister Johnson of San Antonio; daughter-in-law Cecilia Johnson Hager of Kerrville and grandchildren Alice and Henry; daughter Sarah Johnson Pitt and husband Steve of Houston and grandchildren Sarita, Allegra and Stephen; daughter Cecilia Johnson McMurrey and husband, Mark, of San Antonio and grandchildren Harry, Belton and Estella. Funeral services were held at the First Presbyterian Church, 404 N. Alamo, San Antonio, Texas at 2PM Wednesday, May 23rd, with the Rev. Dr. Louis Zbinden officiating, followed by burial in the family cemetery at Kingsville, Texas on Thursday, May 24th, at 12 noon. Pallbearers were John Alexander, Jr., Truman Arnold, Dudley Campbell, Sir Rupert Clarke, James Clement, Jr., Andrew Connell, Harold Cooper, Ed Copley, Tom Frost, Wes Frye, John Howe, Richard King III, Richard Kleberg, III, Mark McMurrey, Bud Middaugh, Peter Milton, Baillieu Myer, Howard Nolan, Steve Pitt, Campbell Smith, Ed Stanfield, John Steen, Jr., and Seagal Wheatley. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the United Way of San Antonio, First Presbyterian Church of San Antonio, or Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, MA. 01342.
      