
        WEXLER-Ruth. We extend our sincerest condolences to Jack Wexler, Ann Fromer and Gary Wexler on the passing of their beloved wife and mother. During her lifetime, Ruth embodied the qualities of courage, dignity and grace. As a Golden Founder of the Medical Center, together with her husband, Jack, and as a member of the National Women's Division and a past Honoree, Ruth made a vital difference to the health-care needs of thousands of people in Jerusalem. She served as an exemplary role model to her children, including her daughter, Ann, who together with her husband, Robert, are Diamond Founders of the Hospital. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Amer. Comm. for Shaare Zedek Jerusalem Med. Ctr. Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, Pres.
        WEXLER-Ruth.The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a dear friend, a distinguished leader of the international Jewish community who with her beloved husband, Jack, was a YU Guardian. They dedicated the Ruth and Jack Wexler Patio in the Jerome and Geraldine Schottenstein Residence Hall at our Midtown Campus. We express our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Jack; children, Ann (and Robert) Fromer and Gary (and Nina) Wexler; brother, Morton Rechler; grandchildren; greatgrandchildren; and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Robert M. Beren, Chairman Board of Trustees Yeshiva University
        WEXLER - Ruth. American Friends of The Hebrew University is deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend Ruth Wexler, past Art Chair of AFHU. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband, Jack, their children, Ann and Robert Fromer and Gary and Nina Wexler, and the entire family. American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President
        WEXLER-Ruth. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Friends of Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, deeply mourn the passing of Ruth Wexler, beloved wife of our esteemed Board member and colleague, Jack Wexler. We extend our deepest codolences to Jack, and the entire Wexler-Fromer families. Romie Shapiro Chairman Emeritus Martin Blumenthal, Chairman Robert David, President Shea Z. Lerner Executive Vice President
        WEXLER-Ruth. The partners, associates and staff of Hartman & Craven note with sadness the passing of Ruth Wexler, beloved wife of our friend and mentor, Jack Wexler. Through her tireless efforts on behalf of the less fortunate, especially the children of Israel, Ruth leaves an eternal legacy of kindness, caring and love.
      