
        BELL-Clarence D., 84 years old. Of Palm Beach, Florida, died on Wednesday, June 27, 2001 following an extended illness. Formerly of New York, New York and Wilmington, Delaware, he was a resident of Palm Beach since 1985. Mr. Bell was employed as a Chemical Engineer with the Dupont Company for over 30 years, and retired as the Executive Vice President in 1972. He also served as a Vice President of the Maimonides Medical Center, New York, New York. Mr. Bell was an avid fisherman and golfer, and a member of the Breakers Golf Club, Palm Beach, FL. He was preceded in death by his first wife, Ragena Lowary Bell. He is survived by his wife, Hilda M. F. Bell of Palm Beach, FL; children, Sally Cooperson (Don) of North Caldwell, NJ, Edward Bell (Liz) of Tampa, FL, Becky Ley (Ken) of Voorhees, NJ, Martin Bell (Peggy) of Miami, FL, Rebecca Folkman (Jonathan Aaron) of Cambridge, MA, Benjamin Folkman of New York, NY, and Jonathan Folkman (Fran) also of New York, NY; eight grandchildren and several nieces and nephews. A Funeral Service will be held at 1:30 PM on Saturday, June 30, 2001 at Quattlebaum-HollemanBurse Funeral Home, 1201 South Olive Avenue, West Palm Beach, Florida 33401. The family will receive friends at the funeral home on Saturday from 12:30 PM until the time of Service. We invite you to visit, sign Mr. Bell's Remembrance Registry guest book and share a memory at the web site of www.quattlebaum.org
        BELL-Clarence D. It is with deep sadness that the family of Maimonides Medical Center records the passing of Clarence D. Bell, former vice president and member of the board of trustees of our hospital, and husband of Hilda M.F. Bell. Mrs. Bell, currently an honorary chairman of our medical center, served as its president from 1975 to 1980. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Hilda and to the entire Bell family. Martin D. Payson, Chairman Board of Trustees Stanley Brezenoff, President
        BELL-Clarence. The Board of Directors of Maimonides Research and Development Foundation announce with profound sorrow the passing of Clarence Bell. Mr. Bell had been associated with the Foundation and actively involved in prior years. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife and family. Marvin Eisenstadt, Chairman Edna Palozzolo, President
      