
        RAYMOND - Paul. (1916 - 2001). Paul Raymond, beloved father of three, passed away on May 26, 2001, of heart failure-however, his warmth of heart will always remain with us. He was born with the name of Nejatollah Farrokh Tavana in Iran. When he was a baby, he survived a serious illnesshis name, Nejatollah, means ''recued by God.'' Paul had a great compassion for all living creatures and believed that all religions should be respected for their faith and belief in a higher power. Although has was born into a Jewish family, his belief was supported by his practice in the Baha'i faith. During WWII, while living in Iran, he assisted Allied Forces by helping repair a device to intercept secret messages transmitted by the Nazis. As an acknowledgement for his service, he was given papers for passage to the United States. He traveled to this country on board a naval troop ship called the U.S.S. General Butler. the troop ship was escorted by three destroyers and carried 6,000 GI's, it passed through submarine infested waters, and miraculously arrived in San Pedro, CA, on July 1st, 1944. Coincidentally, Persian Princess Sattareh Farman Farmaian was on board the same ship and her perspective is recounted in the book, ''Daughter of Persia.'' He lived in Los Angeles for two years before moving to New York where he lived for the remainder of his life. Always wanting to discover and expand his knowledge, Paul was a world traveler who spoke French fluently. He will be remembered as a hero, inventor, raconteur, world traveler, polyglot, punster, jewelry designer, entrepreneur and dancer. His baby blue eyes, charm and humor will linger with the people he touched. He is survived by his daughters, Linda Raymond of New Castle and Doris Raymond of San Francisco, son and ''daughter-in-love,'' David and Marcia Raymond of New York, as well as his sisters Madeleine Hekmat and Ghotsi Etteshamzadeh of Los Angeles. Funeral service Friday, June 1, 2001, 11 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Burden Center for the Aging, Inc, 1484 First Avenue, 2nd floor, NYC 10021.
      