
        LEWIN-Stanley. Of Harrison, NY. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Devoted father of Bruce Lewin and Jamie Meadow and Mark (husband). Grandfather of Stacey and Matt Meadow. Services Monday, 1 PM, at the Jewish Community Center of Harrison, 130 Union Avenue (914) 835-2850.
        LEWIN-Stanley. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Stanley Lewin. He was admired by the entire membership and a contributor to our success. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Marge, his children Jamie and Bruce, and to his grandchildren. Len Shendell, President Judith Tarter, Secretary
        LEWIN-Stanley. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Stanley Lewin. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Marge, and their family. Richard Bornstein, President Leon Fiassler, Secretary
        LEWIN-Stanley. We will always remember our trips together with non-stop laughter-Our chess games-His smile-His generosity. Stan was a very special man. Our memories of him will always be with us. With love, Lucille and Alan
        LEWIN-Stanley. Dearest friend for over 50 years. You are irreplaceable in our lives. Your love, warmth, strength and loyalty will never be forgotten. Love to Margie, Jamie, Bruce and family. Stanley and Marcia Winikoff and Family
        LEWIN-Stanley. We shared many good times together. We will miss your warmth, thoughtfulness and good friendship. Our condolences to Marge and the family. Irene and Murray
        LEWIN-Stanley. Loyal friend. Generous supporter. We will miss you. Brooklyn School EWPO Beverly Weston, President Marsha Winikoff, Vice-President
        LEWIN-Stanley. Dear Margie and family, our wonderful hero is gone. We will meet again. I love you. Mel Usdan and family
        LEWIN-Stanley. Our dear friend, we will always remember our wonderful times together. We miss you already. Gloria and Sherman
      