
        SAREZKY-Monroe Uris. Died June 4, surrounded by his loving family. Born in Brooklyn in 1918, son of Eugene and Gussie Uris Sarezky. Mr. Sarezky was a key player in Fairfield County's building boom beginning in the 1950's. His firm, Monroe Construction Co. built high-rise apartments in Stamford and Bridgeport, CT, and a nursing home in Greenwich. In 1963 he founded the Stamford Apartment Owner's Association which helped overcome obstacles to Fairfield County's development. He was a founder of First Stamford Bank in 1972 and served as a director until it was acquired by Peoples Bank. Mr. Sarezky played semi-professional baseball prior to entering Johns Hopkins University at age 16. He graduated from Johns Hopkins in 1938 and in 1940 married Roslyn Nevas of Stamford, a Goucher College graduate. In April 2000 the couple celebrated their 60th wedding anniversary. After graduation, Mr. Sarezky supervised construction of Manhattan apartment buildings and government housing in Washington DC, Virginia, Maryland and New York State, for Uris Brothers Builders. Between 1943 & 1945 he saw combat in the Pacific as the gunnery officer on the destroyer USS Childs. In 1997 he was formally honored as a ''walking advertisement for the value of a liberal arts education'', by Johns Hopkins for his lifelong support of his alma mater. No less an important part of his life was his quiet generosity to individuals & families he encountered who were struggling financially. His love of travel took him & his wife from their Palm Beach residence to over 150 countries, and in 1994 Mr. Sarezky journeyed to The North Pole. He was an accomplished photographer of exotic landscapes & wildlife, and lectured on his North Pole excursion. He was a longtime patron & member of The Kravis Center in Palm Beach. He is survived by his wife; sons Michael, a physician, and Laurence, an attorney & writer; daughter Louise, a graphics artist; daughters-in-law Virginia Smith & Sheryl Sarezky; his sister Carol Smith of Manhasset; his brother Michael Sheldon of Stamford; and grandchildren Ethan, Kevin, Daniel & Jonathan Sarezky. He will be profoundly missed by his loving family and the many others whose lives were enriched by his warmth, guidance, generosity & humor. Donations in Mr. Sarezky's memory may be made to The Richard Rosenthal Hospice Residence, Shelbourne & W. Broad Streets, Stamford, CT 06902.
      