
        GARBARINI-Charles J. Sr. Esq. 90 years old. The Garbarini/Penna and Petro families deeply mourn the passing of our beloved CJ. He was our ''Great One.'' His long and difficult battle with Glaucoma and Parkinson's disease only enhanced his appreciation of life. He never lost his intelligence, sense of humor and wit. He was a wise, compassionate and charitable man. Charles had a devoted and deep love for Lillian, his wife and ''life support'' of the past 64 years. He was a loving father to his children: Charles, Rita Nugent and Stephen. He was a wonderful father to his son-in-law, William Nugent, and to his daughters by marriage, Ruth and Karen. Unsurpassed was his love for his grandchildren: Christopher Nugent, David Nugent, Samantha Garbarini, Alexandra Garbarini and Micah Singer, Jennifer Layton and Sarah Layton. We cannot imagine life without him, so great is our loss.
        GARBARINI-Charles J. Sr., Esq. 90 years old. Of Pelham Manor, NY,. Died June 28, 2001. With profound sadness and regret we record the passing of our beloved Charles J. Garbarini Sr. He was a member in good standing of the Bar of the State of N.Y. and was admitted to the Federal Courts for the Eastern and Southern Districts of N.Y. and to the Supreme Court of the U.S. He graduated from St. Johns University School of Law with the degree of Juris Doctor. He served as a pre-trial Master of the Civil Court of the City of New York, and was a member of the National Panel of Arbitrators of the American Arbitration Association. He was a member of The American Society of Law and Medicine of the American Bar Association, the American Trial Lawyers Association, the New York State Bar Association, the New York State Trial Lawyers Association, and the Association of the Bar of the City of New York. Charles served as president of the Columbian Lawyers Association, and was listed in the Who's Who of Lawyers. Charles was a Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus, and was a Communicant of the Church of Our Lady of Perpetual Help, in Pelham Manor, NY. He practiced law for over 50 years as a trial lawyer. He was a Partner in the law firm of Garbarini and Kroll, and the founding Partner of the law firm of Garbarini & Scher in NYC, specializing in the defense of medical malpractice and insurance cases. Some of his notable clients were Lloyds of London, Madison Square Garden Corp., numerous medical associations, and practically 75% of the hospitals in NYC. He was a frequent lecturer in London, England, and at hospitals and bar associations. He held high standards and lived by them. Charles will be greatly missed for his humor, camaraderie, careful and thoughtful knowledge of the law, and especially, for mentoring so many young people to pursue excellence in their careers and lives.
      