
        WEXLER-Ruth. Died quietly with her family by her side on Friday, June 1, 2001. Beloved wife of 68 years to Jack Wexler. Loving sister to Morton Rechler. Cherished mother to Ann and son-in-law Robert Fromer and Gary and daughter-in-law Nina Wexler. Adored grandmother to Tony, Amy, Yvette and Michal Fromer, Elana and Freddy Wexler, and great-grandmother to Alex and Madelaine Fromer. She was a passionate and generous woman who opened her heart and home to many political and philanthropic endeavors. She was an active member of Israeli Bonds, Hadassah, ORT, Jewish National Fund, The Maccabi World Union and Israeli Tennis Center, Jewish War Veterans USA, and Zahal Disabled Veterans. She and her soulmate, Jack, established a national bridge tournament in Israel with that organization, and were a driving force in building Migdal Or, a school for underprivileged children in Israel, into a major institution. Her boundless energy and enthusiasm taught her family the importance of caring and commitment to the world around them. Ruth's love for art and collecting took her and Jack around the world. She was one of the earliest Art Chairs for the American Friends of Hebrew University, and was intimately involved with the Nassau County Museum of Art and Bezalel, the oldest art school in the Middle East. At 88, Ruth was still larger than life, and her wisdom, insight, imagination and candor touched all who knew her. She will be deeply missed. Services will be held at Temple Israel of Great Neck, 108 Old Mill Rd, Noon today.
        Ruth. Migdal Ohr Institutions in Israel and the Board of Directors of the American Friends of Migdal Ohr deeply mourn the passing of Ruth Wexler, mother to all children of Migdal Ohr and a woman of valor. She was held in great esteem and respected by her family, friends and the thousands of children at Migdal Ohr who benefited from her energy, generosity and the true love she has shown to all who knew her. Her impact and influence on the Jewish people and the State of Israel was profound. Her wisdom, devotion and the kindness she has shown to so many are treasured by all who were fortunate to have been touched by her heart and giving soul. May God console her husband Jack, who shared her passion for saving the youth of Israel; her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Yitzchok Dovid Grossman Founder and Dean, Migdal Ohr Chief Rabbi, Migdal Ha'Emek Rabbi Eliezer Rosner Migdal Ohr Institutions, Jerusalem Max Thurm, President Jeremy Neimand, Exec Director American Friends of Migdal Ohr
        WEXLER-Ruth. The officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with deep sorrow the passing of Ruth Wexler, one of the founders of the Prime Minister's Club and the Golda Meir Club. She and her husband, Jack, recently became the inaugural members of the prestigious Israel Bonds Platinum Society. Her inspired leadership and passionate commitment to Israel and the Jewish community will long be remembered. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gideon Patt, President and CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg National Campaign Chairman Fran Schor, Long Island Division General Chairperson
        WEXLER-Ruth. The Auschwitz Jewish Center Foundation joins the entire community in mourning the loss of a woman who lived all of her days in celebration of life. Possessed of energy, intelligence, sensitivity, ambition, and a super abundance of love. Love for her family, the Jewish nation, and all of humanity. A vital inspiration to our work in behalf of those whose memory we extol. In her absence, her spirit yet endures. Our heartfelt wishes for peace and tranquility to dear Jack, Ann, Gary, Nina and Robert and their children. Fred and Allyne Schwartz Auschwitz Jewish Center Staff and Board of Directors
        WEXLER-Ruth. The American Friends of Jamaica extend sincere condolences to Jack and her family at her passing. Her leadership and guidance as we created the American Friends of Jamaica was immeasurable. Her civic and social leadership and her steadfast philanthropy were the qualities she imparted to our organization. Her love of excellence and her respect for mankind were infectious. She will be sorely missed. Honorable Glen A. Holden, Chair Anne F. Sabo, Secy.-Treasurer
        WEXLER-Ruth. To Jack, and the entire Wexler and Fromer families, and to our dear Yvette, our sincerest and heartfelt thoughts are with you on the loss of Ruth, who will always be remembered as the grandest of matriarchs. Susan Aberbach Richard Mincheff
        WEXLER-Ruth. We mourn the passing of a truly great lady who will be missed by many. Our deepest condolences to her family. Katzman, Weinstein & Co LLP
      