
        GIBSON-Diana Vaughan Marvin. Died of cancer on May 28, 2001, at Maine Medical Center in Portland, after a brief illness. She was a sixth generation descendant of Benjamin Vaughan, who settled in Hallowell in 1797, and whose father, Samuel, married Sarah Hallowell, daughter of Benjamin Hallowell, one of the original Kennebec Proprietors. Mrs. Gibson was born on February 27, 1918, in New York City, the daughter of Langdon Parker Marvin and Mary Vaughan Marvin, and grew up in New York, with summers spent at her mother's family's house in Hallowell, and Northeast Harbor, ME. She attended The Chapin School in New York and graduated in 1936 from St. Timothy's School in Stevenson, MD, and from Bennington College in Bennington, VT, in 1942. Musically talented, Mrs. Gibson played the bassoon with the National Orchestral Association and taught music in New York, among a variety of part-time jobs. In 1943 she joined the American Red Cross, and for the next two and a half years, during WWII, she and two other Red Cross volunteers drove a 10-wheel Clubmobile truck in England, throughout France, Luxembourg and Germany, and into Czechoslovakia. After the war, Mrs. Gibson returned to New York and pursued her life-long interests in music and in art, working at the Museum of Modern Art for several years. On November 15, 1947, she married George W. Gibson of Chestnut Hill, MA. Mrs. Gibson was a long-time member of the English Speaking Union, which her father had helped found, a Director of Scholarships, Inc., which provides special educational opportunities, and a Director of the Maternity Center, a philanthropic organization. When Mr. Gibson retired, they became residents in Hallowell, ME. Mrs. Gibson took on a variety of local civic and organizational responsibilities. For several years she was on the planning board of Hallowell, and at the time of her death she was a member of the Hallowell Tree Board and of the Board of Friends of the Maine State Museum in Augusta. She inherited her mother's love of horticulture, and was a long-standing member of the Kennebec Valley Garden Club. She was also a founding life member of, and advisor to, the Kennebec Land Trust. In 1990, she donated to the Trust a conservation easement on the Vaughan Woods that protects the property in perpetuity and opened its trails for public use. Mrs. Gibson was an enthusiastic supporter of the Pine Tree State Arboretum in Augusta, ME, and was a Friend of the Hubbard Free Library in Hallowell. She was an ardent advocate for the Hallowell Historic District, and for her efforts in the community she was named Hallowell citizen of the year in 1992. Mrs. Gibson is survived by her beloved husband George W. Gibson, who lives in Hallowell, and her three children, George L. Gibson and his wife, Linda Johns of New York City, Ellen V. Gibson of Roslindale, MA, and David H. Gibson and Susan Gibson of Ballston Lake, NY. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, June 2nd, 2 PM, at St. Matthew's Episcopal Church, Union St, Hallowell. For information, Knowlton and Hewins Funeral Home, One Church St, Augusta ME.
      