
        BOYCE-Gerard (Jerry) R. A beloved partner in the New York office of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison LLP, died Monday at the age of 46 after a battle with cancer. Jerry specialized in tax matters involving all aspects of technology and emerging growth companies. He advised clients on tax aspects of complex joint ventures, partnerships, M&A deals, corporate finance and other issues. A partner at Brobeck since 1999, Jerry was well known in the New York legal community, and authored a column on eFinance in the ''New York Law Journal'' since 1993. He also was a frequent lecturer having presented seminars on a variety of topics such as New York Limited Liability Company Law, Advising Growth and Start-up Business, and Tax Aspects of Real Estate Bankruptcy. ''Jerry was a warm, caring person and extremely talented lawyer. He fought his battle with cancer with courage and dignity that inspired us all and made us proud that he was part of our firm. We will miss him greatly'', said Ken King, Managing Partner of Brobeck's New York office. ''In every way Jerry epitomized what it means to be a Brobeck partner'', said James E. Burns, Jr., Brobeck's Managing Partner. ''He made this law firm a better place from the day he arrived, and his passing has left us with a sense of gratitude that we had the opportunity to call him one of our own.'' Jerry was born on September 7, 1954, in Bridgeton, New Jersey. Prior to joining Brobeck, he was a partner at the law firm of Brown Raysman Millstein Felder & Steiner LLP. He earned his J.D., cum laude, from Seton Hall University in 1983, and an L.L.M. in taxation from New York University Law School in 1987. He earned his B.A., cum laude, from Fairleigh Dickinson University in 1976. While Jerry was an extremely accomplished lawyer, his colleagues remember him as a dear friend. ''Jerry was a wonderful person in every respect, and he had the important things in life figured out,'' said Chris Johnson, one of his partners at Brobeck. ''He was devoted to his family. He had an effusive passion for living. He listened to problems with sensitivity and empathy, but also had a side-splitting sense of humor. He was charming. He was a moral person who tried always to do the 'right thing.' Most people are lucky to have one of these qualities. Jerry had all of them.'' A Brobeck associate, John Tolpa, had similar memories: ''No matter how busy we were, Jerry always made himself available whenever I wanted to talk. He was interested in getting to know me not only as a working colleague but as a person and friend.'' Not only was Jerry an attorney of great practical business ability, but also one of tremendous integrity and decency. He was a true friend in every respect to his colleagues at Brobeck. All of our lives have been enriched by his cheerful presence.'' said Eric Simonson, another one of his partners at Brobeck. In his spare time, Jerry was an avid participant in motorcycle racing, and also enjoyed golf, working on various home improvement projects, and most importantly, spending time with his family. Jerry was well known within and without Brobeck for his sensitivity and humor. He took particular pleasure in mentoring associates thoroughly and helping his clients navigate the rough waters of rapid growth. Jerry is survived by his wife Anna, children Lauren, Aidan and Garrett and his sisters Peggy Chaplin and Veronica Gunnerson. In Jerry's honor, donations may be made to The Gerard R. Boyce Memorial Racing Fund, in care of Mark Limardo, Esq., Jenkens, Gilchrist, Parker, Chapin LLP, 405 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10174. Funeral arrangements are pending.
      