
        McKINNEY-Robert Moody. A former U.S. Ambassador and Editor and Publisher of the Santa Fe New Mexican for more than half a century, died of pneumonia Sunday night at New York Hospital. He was 90. He was a diplomat, corporate director, conservationist, veteran and poet. McKinney served by appointment to five presidents: As Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Department of Interior, as U.S. Ambassador to the International Atomic Energy Agency at Vienna, as U.S. Ambassador to Switzerland and held two appointments in the U.S. Treasury Department. McKinney bought the Santa Fe New Mexican in 1949. Due to health problems from the high altitude McKinney sold the company to Gannette Co. in 1976, retaining the right to continue as editor and publisher. After a protracted and celebrated court battle, which he won, McKinney resumed management of the Newspaper in 1987 and repurchased the property in 1989. At one time, he owned four newspapers: The Taos (N.M.) News, The Las Vegas (N.M.) Optic in Las Vegas, N.M., The Monte Vista (Colo.) Journal and the Santa Fe New Mexican. The Taos News is now owned by his daughter, Robin Martin, whose succeeds him as head of The New Mexican. Born in Shattuck, Okla., August 28, 1910, McKinney grew up in Amarillo, TX, the son of a minister. His father Edwin McKinney was a descendent of Colin McKinney, a signer of the Texas Declaration of Independence. His mother, Eva, was the daughter of Robert Moody, a trader on the Santa Fe Trail. McKinney graduated from Amarillo High School and was a reporter for the Amarillo Globe News. He received a bachelor's degree, Psi Beta Kappa, from the University of Oklahoma in 1932. Upon graduation, he worked in New York City as an investment analyst at Standard Statistics, now Standard and Poors. He served as a partner in his cousin Robert Young's investment firm from 1934 to 1950 and became successful by investing in bankrupt railroad stock at the depth of the Depression. During WWII McKinney was a Lieutenant Junior Grade in the U.S. Navy. He helped develop the Tiny Tim Rocket and participated in D-Day to observe the devices piercing German tanks. In 1943, he married Louise Trigg, the daughter of a ranching family from Eastern New Mexico. Because of Santa Fe's close proximity to the National Atomic Weapons Labratory at Los Alamos, McKinney became interested in peaceful uses of atomic energy and published a five volume book on the subject. McKinney served on the board of major corporations, including the Rock Island Railroad, International Telephone and Telegraph, Trans World Airlines and Martin Marietta. He was a published poet; His book ''Hymn to Wreckage'' was rated by the New York Times as one of the ten best poetry books in 1947. Mr. McKinney was divorced from Louise Trigg in 1970 and later married Marielle De Mont Mollin who died in 1998. He is survived by his daughter, Robin McKinney Martin, her husband, Meade Martin, and grandchildren, Laura and Elliott of Nambe; step-son, Laurent De Mont Mollin of Florida; stepdaughter, Edmee Firth of New York; and grandchildren, Marie Louise Slocum and Olivia Slocum of New York and John Slocum of Newport, R.I. A funeral service will be Friday at 10AM at Emanuel Episcopal Church in Middleburg, VA. Memorial services in New York City and Santa Fe will be announced. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to St. Johns College, Santa Fe.
      