
        MENDIK-Bernard H. The Board of Governors, members and staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of its leader for the last decade and a giant in our industry, Bernard H. Mendik. Bernie loved and cared about New York and he played an integral part in shaping its skyline. Bernie brought wisdom, compassion and a sense of humor to all his professional and civic endeavors. We express our deepest sympathy to his lovely wife Suzy, his four wonderful children, and the entire Mendik family. Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Emeritus Steve Spinola, President
        MENDIK - Bernard H. The Trustees and staff of the Citizens Budget Commission mourn the passing of Bernard H. Mendik, esteemed former Trustee of the Commission from 1965 to 1996, and a past member of its Executive Committee. He will long be remembered for his intelligence, wit, compassion and generosity. We extend our sincere sympathies to his wife, Susan Mendik and to the entire Mendik family. Eugene J. Keilin, Chairman Diana Fortuna, President Citizens Budget Commission
        MENDIK-Bernard H. A man who wanted to make a difference in the world and did so. He enriched his own field of real estate, the study of law, the plight of the blind and became a benefactor to an endless group of people less fortunate than himself. His greatest pleasure was to make his friends happy and to unselfishly share his life with them. Bernie, we love you and will miss you forever. Our deepest sympathies to his wife, Suzy, and his children, Alex, Todd, Kevin and Laurie. Laurie and Burt Langer
        MENDIK-Bernard. The Officers, Board of Directors, members and staff of the Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations, Inc, deeply mourn the passing of its board member and trusted advisor. His inspiration, warmth and sage advice have always been appreciated and will be sorely missed. Our condolences are extended to his wife Susan, his children, and his entire family. James F. Berg, President
        MENDIK-Bernard H. Our dear friend, Bernie-You will be missed beyond words. We treasure our memories of your laughter, inimitable style and grace, kindness, generosity, intellect and sincere friendship. Our lives are richer for having shared part of it with you. With deep condolences and love to Suzy, Sandi, Nancy, Alex, Todd, Laurie and Kevin. With our love, Kathleen and Chris
        MENDIK-Bernard. We join Suzie, Laurie, Tod, Kevin, and Alex along with Sandy and Nancy and their extended families in mourning the loss of our founder and mentor. Thank you Bernie for your guidance through the years. We are eternally grateful for having been a part of your life. Michael Downey Ross Landesman, Howard Fox and the BMS Family
        MENDIK-Bernie. We mourn the passing of a great person and true gentleman. Our sincerest sympathies to his family and friends. The Lansco Corporation
      