
        SELLA-Emmanuel, 76. A vibrant and generous man died peacefully at home on June 12, 2001, surrounded by his wife and children. Until almost his last days he had a twinkle in his eye and possessed a remarkable energy for life. He was born in Vilna, Lithuania to Leah Kellman Solchansky and Ephraim Solchansky, and was their third child after his brother Haim & sister Yochevet. Already as a young man, he had the love of adventure and the ambition that would guide him throughout his life. After joining the Zionist youth group Betar, he stowed away on a ship, named the S.S. Parita, heading for Palestine. There he joined relatives whose address his mother had stitched to the inside of his trouser pocket. The Parita approached Tel Aviv eight days before the start of World War Two. He was never again to see his parents and brother and sister who died during the war. He quickly embraced his new country and changed his name to Sella, Hebrew for rock, a fitting name for a man of such determination. He fought in the Haganah for Israel's independence and at the age of 23 was appointed Commander of the Coastal Defenses of Israel. After the establishment of the state of Israel, he served in the Ministry of Labor in the Department of Development. As a result of his outstanding work for the government, he was awarded a scholarship to study in the United States. He graduated from Syracuse University with a Bachelor of Arts degree followed by a Masters of Arts degree from Harvard University. Even at the outset of his career, he excelled in turning dreams to reality, such as raising the funding for Israel's first supermarket chain and helping to finance and build one of Israel's first international hotels, the Tel Aviv Hilton. These successes led him to take on bigger dreams which he pursued in the United States, all the while working in support of Israeli ventures and causes. In 1967, he founded the Amivest Corporation, an investment management company, and always had confidence that it would thrive, which it did. He was assisted for countless years by his dedicated assistant, Mary MacCormack whom he greatly appreciated and valued. In 1973, Amivest Corporation acquired a seat on the New York Stock Exchange and later became part of North Fork Bancorporation. He loved Israel and spending time in the garden of the family's home in Kfar Shmaryahu, north of Tel Aviv. He was very active in American civic life & was invited on several occasions to the White House. He was an avid sailor and found great enjoyment and tranquility navigating his sailboat. He was an extremely warm and insightful man with a self-deprecating sense of humor that belied his success. He often commented that the most important part of life was family, and the profound loss felt by his wife and children speaks the truth of this statement. He is survived by his wife Aviva, his sons Gur, Ephraim, and Gideon, his daughters Shelley and Carmel and his grandchildren Talli, Nir, Shirli, Noah Lani, and Omar. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Israel's Museum of the Diaspora through American Friends of Bet Hatphusot, 633 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10017. A memorial service will be held on Friday, June 15 at 1:30 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street followed by a burial several days later in Israel.
        SELLA-Emmanuel. The Tel Aviv Foundation and the city of Tel Aviv-Yafo mourn with profound sorrow the passing of Emmanuel Sella. His generosity and spirit will be especially remembered in the city of Tel Aviv. Manny was responsible for the implementation of major economic projects in Israel, among them the establishment of the Tel Aviv Hilton Hotel, which contributed greatly to the development of the economy and tourism in the city. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mayor Ron Huldai, Int'l Chairman David Harnik, Dir. General Ira D. Riklis, Chmn., Amer. Comm. Jeannie Gerzon, Exec. Director
        SELLA-Emmanuel. The American Friends of Beth Hatefutsoth, Museum of the Jewish Diaspora in Tel Aviv, mourns the loss of Emmanuel Sella, a great friend, benefactor and supporter of many Israeli and Jewish causes. A wonderful, dynamic, and noble personality of vision, idealism, intelligence, wisdom, integrity, and dignity; he will surely be missed. Our most heartfelt condolences to his wife Aviva, his children and grandchildren. May his memory be for a blessing. Sam E. Bloch, Chairman Stephen M. Greenberg, President Gloria Golan, Director
        SELLA-Emmanuel. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York mourns the passing of our dear friend and loyal supporter. His leadership and dedication to so many Jewish causes will be sorely missed. May his beloved wife, Aviva, and the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gedale B. Horowitz, Pres. Ezra G. Levin, Pres. Elect Michael S. Miller, Exec. V.P.
      