
        BAEZ-Silvio, M.D., 85. Of Yorktown Heights and Colonel Greene Road, died Monday, June 25, 2001 at the Fletcher Allen Health Care Center in Burlington, VT. He had been living with his son and daughter in law, Ricardo and Dolores Baez on East Parkside Terrace in Barre, VT since August of last year. Born on July 6, 1915 in Guarambare, Paraguay, he was the son of Ricardo & Regina Baez-Acosta. During the Chaco War (1932-1935) in Paraguay, he served as an Infantry Captain having been decorated for Valor and being wounded. Following his army service, he received his doctorate of medicine from the University of Asuncion in Asuncion, Paraguay in 1942. He then received a U.S. Government Fellowship to Cornell Medical School in NYC in Physiology Research. He became an Assistant Professor of Physiology and Anesthesiology at the New York University School of Medicine. In 1985, he became a full Professor of Physiology and Anesthesiology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in NYC, retiring later that year. On April 15, 1973, he received the Eugene M. Landis Research Award for his outstanding contributions in Microvascular Research. In 1985, he was recognized for his many years as Director of Anesthesiology Research Laboratories by his colleagues of the Department of Anesthesiology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. On April 14, 2000, he became a life member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He was also a life member of the New York Academy of Sciences, a member of the Microcirculatory Society and the Yorktown Heights (NY) Community Association. Survivors include a daughter, Annacleta Regina Baez of New York City; two sons, Ricardo Silvio Baez and his wife Dolores of Barre, VT and Pedro Lorenzo Baez of Randolph, VT; two grandchildren, Alexandria Elena Baez and Peter Lorenzo Baez Jr.; three sisters, Betty Campos-Baez, Chiquita Chaux-Baez and Quillia Baez, all of Asuncion, Paraguay and nieces and nephews. He was predeceased by a brother, Professor Pedro Baez and a sister, Alcira Cardenas-Baez, M.D. A Service of Remembrance will be held at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of New York City, to be arranged by his family at a time to be announced. A Service of Remembrance will also be held at the Barre, VT Universalist Church on Sunday, July 8, 2001 at 2:00 PM. There are no calling hours. Later, entombment will be in the family mausoleum with his long time companion, Professor Patricia Carpenter, in the Recoleta Cemetery in Asuncion, Paraguay. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Central Vermont Home Health & Hospice, 600 Granger Road, Barre, VT 05641. Services are under the direction of the Hooker and Whitcomb Funeral Home, 7 Academy St, Barre, VT.
      