
        KATZ-Rabbi Dr. Leon. Beloved husband of Rebbitzin Rhea Katz. Cherished father of Shimon and Nancy Katz, and Avram and Dr. Nadine Katz. Devoted brother of Rabbi Michael and Rebbitzin Hinda Katz. Adored grandfather. Served the Passaic and Clifton, NJ, communities as rabbi and rabbi emeritus of Cong. Adas Israel over 63 years. Ordained by Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, affiliate of Yeshiva University. Recipient of numerous community honors and an honorary doctorate from YU. He was buried in Israel. Mrs. Katz and children will observe shiva at her home, 32 Laurel Ave., Clifton, NJ, from Friday to Wednesday morning.
        KATZ-Rabbi Dr. Leon. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of a distinguished past president of the RIETS Alumni, beloved husband of Rhea. He served the Passaic and Clifton, NJ, communities as rabbi and rabbi emeritus of Cong. Adas Israel for over 63 years. A graduate of Yeshiva College and musmakh of RIETS, he was later awarded an honorary YU degree. Rabbi and Mrs. Katz are Fellows of our Stern College for Women, RIETS, and the YU High Schools. Their family established the Rabbi Dr. and Mrs. Leon Katz Professorship in Rabbinics at RIETS and scholarships in memory of their son, Meyer Labe Katz, at YUHS for Boys, and daughter, Varda Roni Nistar, at SCW, and a RIETS scholarship honoring Dr. Norman Lamm's 25th anniversary as president. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Rebbitzin Rhea Katz; children, Shimon (and Nancy) Katz and Avram (and Dr. Nadine) Katz-all YU Guardians and High School Fellows; brother, Rabbi Michael (and Rebbitzin Hinda) Katz, rosh yeshiva, RIETS; and grandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Julius Berman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees
        KATZ-Rabbi Leon. The Chernobyl Children mourn the passing of a dear friend, cherished supporter, and father and father-in-law of two champions of their cause, Shimon and Nancy Katz. Rabbi Katz received his ordination from several of the greatest rabbis of his time, and served the Jewish community, together with his beloved wife, Rebbitzen Rivkah, for over 50 years, without regard to personal health or benefit. He walked humbly before G-d yet tirelessly worked to help and better the plight of those in need. His caring, wisdom, and wit will be missed by all who knew him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Rivkah, his children Shimon and Nancy, Avi and Nadine, his brother Rabbi Michael Katz, his granddaughter Tchatchie and grandchildren Jessica, Melissa, Jordan, Jeremy, and Jonathan and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Chabad's Children of Chernobyl Alan Clingman, President David Tessel, Chairman Executive Committee
        KATZ-Rabbi Dr. Leon. Passaic Mizrachi, Religious Zionists of America joins the entire community in mourning the death of our distinguished leader, Rabbi Dr. Leon Katz, zt''l. Rabbi Katz, one of the founders of Passaic Mizrachi, served for over two decades as its president in the most significant period of our history-during the early years of the establishment of the State of Israel. He was most instrumental in attracting many supporters to the cause of Religious Zionism while continuously promoting the love of Medinat Yisrael and Am Yisrael. Yehi Zichro Baruch. Dr. Harry Kirsch, President Joseph Falkenstein, Chairman Executive Committee William Shapiro Secretary-Treasurer Rabbi Dr. Solomon F. Rybak and Rabbi Chaim Wasserman Honorary Presidents
        KATZ-Rabbi Dr. Leon. Congregation Adas Israel in Passaic, NJ, mourns the loss of it most esteemed Rabbi Emeritus, Master Builder, Rabbi Dr. Leon Katz, zt''l, who served our synagogue and the entire community for more than sixty years in a most noble manner while always promoting the cause of Orthodoxy, Jewish Education, Zionism and the love of fellow man. Most heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. Dr. Solomon F. Rybak, Rabbi Jack Wachsstock, President
      