
        ROY-Asoka, MS, CNM, FACNM, affectionately called Koko, passed away peacefully in Valhalla, NY on June 22. She was born in India, educated in India, England and the USA, & had an interesting & distinguished career in her much loved midwifery profession. She started her midwifery career in India. Stories are told of her courage when she risked her life to see all her midwives to safety during the partition between India and Pakistan; of her trips to the villages to deliver babies, such as twins in the mud-huts of the war-torn reaches of India when medical assistance was nowhere to be found. After the war, she was appointed General Secretary of the TNAI, the 2nd Indian to hold this high-level 'British' national post. Koko studied to be a midwife tutor at London's famous Hospital, Guys, and she learned to do vacuum extractions in Sweden. She worked as a tutor in England prior to her sojourn to the USA. A pioneer midwife in the City in 1968, she forged ahead to establish the first Midwifery Program at Beth Israel Hospital where she later taught Yale midwifery students and medical students. In 1983, she obtained admitting privileges at St. Vincents' Hospital when she was working in the private midwifery practice of Maureen Rayson, CNM. She then became a Fellow of the American College of Nurse-Midwives. When she retired from delivery practice at St. Vincent's in 1990, the hospital made her Midwife Emeritus. Koko, God-fearing & energetic devoted her life to the care of mothers & babies and toward the improvement of her profession. She demanded high standards from her midwives. Active after her retirement, she attended her last birth, her grand-niece's, at home, at age 82 in 1998. Until recently, she was involved in developing the Beth Israel midwifery archives. She was an inspiration to her midwives, student doctors and clients, and was loved by us all. Her departure represents a great loss to the international midwifery community. Her spirit will live on for many generations. For funeral information, call Maureen's office in Chelsea at 646-230-7708. Maureen Rayson, CNM For the Midwifery Community
      