
        KASSEL-Charles Jacob. Seventysix, of Cresskill, NJ. Beloved husban of Miriam, his wife of fortyseven years. Devoted father of Kenneth and Kerul, model fatherin-law of David Leeman: dear brother of Helen Goldstein. Born November 20th, 1924 in Brooklyn, NY, Chuck served in the Navy in World War II as a Chief Petty Officer in the South Pacific and was called back during the Korean War. He graduated from University of Missouri with a Bachelors of Electrical Engineering Degree, then worked for RCA teaching others to repair radios and televisions. He and his brother-in-law founded American Lace Mills, a textile mill in Hackensack, NJ, which they operated for twentyeight years. He was also instrumental in managing the family's commercial real estate in Hackensack. Chuck then pursued a Masters Degree in Clinical Nutrition from University of Bridgeport in CT. He volunteered weekly at the Emergency Room of Englewood Hospital for over twelve years, was a member of Temple Beth El for over forty years, was active in the UJA for many years, and was a member of Montammy Golf Club since its inception in 1969. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Charles Kassel Memorial Fund at Temple Beth El. Service at 10 AM, Wednesday at Temple Beth El, 221 Schraalenburgh Road, Closter, NJ, 07624; 201-768-5112. The family will accept visitors at 216 Sunrise Court, Rivervale, NJ; call 201476-1647 for directions.
        KASSEL-Charles. The Board of Governors and members of Montammy Golf Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved member and extend their heartfelt sympathy to Miriam, Kenneth, Kerul and the entire family. Stanley Plonchak, President
        KASSEL-Charles. Our dearest friend whose untimely death ended the life of a universally loved person. Our thoughts are with Miriam, Kenny and Kerul. The Kanarek Family
        KASSEL-Chuck. Chuck, you were a beautiful man. Your willingness to help I shall never forget. I will ever remember. Rest gently. Jack Frank
      