
        WEISS-Stephan. Born September 16, 1938. Died on June 10th, 2001. Beloved husband of Donna Karan, father of Corey Weiss, Lisa WeissKeyes and Gabrielle Karan and grandfather of Mackenzie, Miles, Mercer, Etan and Maya Rose. An exceptional creator and co-founder of Donna Karan International, his wit, charm, intelligence and forward thinking impressed all who knew him. He will live on through the many whose lives he touched with his goodness and humanity. Funeral services will be private. The family asks that in lieu of flowers donations be made to The Karan-Weiss Foundation, dedicated to benefiting medical research, education and the arts, C/O Urban Zen, LLC, 570 7th Avenue, Suite 703, NY, NY 10018.
        WEISS-Stephan. On behalf of the Board of Directors and staff of the Ovarian Cancer Research Fund (OCRF), we deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and supporter, Stephan Weiss. Stephan was an extraordinarily talented, generous and kind man. He, along with his wife, Donna Karan, was steadfast in his support of our cause and so many others and will always have a special place in our hearts. His love and commitment to his family was unwavering and to dear Donna, we offer our most sincere sympathies and love. Our thoughts are with you and your family. OCRF Board of Directors and Staff
        WEISS-Stephan. Was a beloved member of the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation's family. His generous spirit and vision will continue to inspire us as we work to help all children live longer and healthier lives. Our hearts are with his wife, Donna, and all their children and grandchildren. His wisdom and compassion will be missed but never forgotten. The Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
        WEISS-Stephan. It is with profound sadness that we note the passing of our friend and partner, Stephan. To Donna, Corey, Lisa, Gabby, the grandchildren and their families, we express our deepest sympathies. Dear Stephan, rest in eternal peace. Frank and Tomio
      