
        SHAPIRO-Edwin. Died peacefully in his sleep after a long struggle with cancer. Beloved husband of Dena, loving father and father-inlaw of Steven/Sharon & Len/Bilha and the late Richard. Adored grandfather of Ronen, Oren, Alon, Reuven and Samuel. Respected stepfather of Alan and Renee Zellner. Also survived by his former wife Claire Zucker Shapiro, his brother Milton and sister Lillian Kushel. A graduate of CCNY. Longtime director of Camp Sequoia in Rock Hill, NY. Past President of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society (HIAS), United States Association for International Migration (US Aim), American Camping Association (NY section) and Association of Private Camps, Treasurer, Member of Executive Committee, Overseer, of CARE, Chairman B'nai B'rith Hillel Commission, Chairman of the Executive Committee of NY Association of New Americans (NYANA) and a member of the American delegation to the Emergency 65-country parley on the Indochinese Refugee Crisis held in Geneva in 1979. Ed will be sorely missed by his family and friends, generations of campers and counselors of Camp Sequoia, the refugees he so vigorously worked to help and his many colleagues in Jewish philanthropy, human rights affairs and children's camping. Services Wednesday, June 13th, 1:15PM, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th St. Shiva to be observed by Dena and family at 140 East 83rd St. Wednesday, June 13-Friday June 15 from 3PM, and Steve and Len will continue shiva on Saturday night, Sunday and Monday at 191 Hamilton Rd., Chappaqua, NY. Donations may be made to the Richard Alan Shapiro Memorial Scholarship Award, c/o HIAS, 333 Seventh Avenue, 17th floor, New York, New York 10001.
        SHAPIRO-Edwin. HIAS, the Hebrew Immigrant Aide Society, mourns the passing of Edwin Shapiro, a treasured friend, valued colleague, and past president (1979-1984). His commitment to service and tireless advocacy on behalf of refugees around the world was outstanding. Edwin Shapiro led HIAS with vision and energy at a time when record numbers of Jews were leaving the former Soviet Union and needed a broad range of services. He was a pillar of the Jewish community, involved with organizations including B'nai B'rith Hillel, Council of Jewish Federations, United Israel Appeal, American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, and the American ORT Federation. His compassion, warmth and commitment will be sorely missed. HIAS' heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Dena, and to his entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Neil Greenbaum, Chair of the Board Leonard Glickman, President and CEO
        SHAPIRO-Edwin. The Board and staff of the New York Association for New Americans (NYANA) are deeply saddened by the loss of our esteemed Board member and friend, Edwin Shapiro. Ed was a member of our Board and Executive Committee for over twenty years. He was a generous humanitarian who was deeply committed to assisting those who came to our shores fleeing persecution and seeking a brighter future for themselves and their families. He will be sorely missed by all of us. To his wife Dena and his entire family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Michael Loeb, President Mark Handelman, Exec. V.P.
        SHAPIRO-Edwin. The Board of Directors and the Congregation of the Metropolitan Synagogue mourn the passing of our past president and devoted boardmember. His leadership will be sorely missed. We extend our condolences to his wife, Dena, and sons, Len and Steve. Gail Magaliff, President Susan Patricof, Bd. Chairman Joel S. Goor, Rabbi
        SHAPIRO - Edwin. SEQUOIANS deeply mourn the passing of our beloved ''Uncle Ed.'' His humanity inspired all who knew and loved him. Our heartfelt sympathy to the Shapiro family. Curt M. Cohen
      