
        CAREY-Paul Robert, Commissioner -United States Securities and Exchange Commission passed away June 14, 2001 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Paul Robert Carey was born October 18, 1962, the beloved seventh son of Former Governor Hugh L. Carey and the late Helen Owen Carey. His two brothers Hugh L. Carey, Jr. and Peter G. Carey predeceased him. He is survived by his loving family and friends including his brothers and sisters: Alexandria McManus (Hank), Christopher (Bonnie), Susan Dempsey (Marty), Michael, Donald, Marianne Hayes (Dennis), Nancy Cassidy (Tom), Helen O'Neill (Martin), Bryan (Catherine), Kevin (Mary Jo), Thomas (Amy), his loving nieces and nephews Peter Hugh, Eileen, Tom, Beth (Bryan), Erich, Kate, Susie, Ted, Maureen, Hugh, Donnie, Owen, Delia, Thomas Hugh & Elizabeth. Many loving friends, including his close friend Jackie Chorney, also survive him. In lieu of flowers the family wishes that Paul be remembered by donations to Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021 or St. Gabriel's Spiritual Center for Youth, P.O. Box 3015, Shelter Island Heights, NY 11965. A mass will be celebrated at St. Patrick's Cathedral at 10:00 AM on Monday June 18, 2001. For inquiries contact Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel at (212) 288-3500. We Know. The Carey Family
        CAREY-Paul. God has not promised skies always blue, flowerstrewn pathways all our lives through, God has not promised sun without rain, joy without sorrow, peace without pain. But God has promised strength for the day, rest for the labor, light for the way, Grace for the trials, help from above, unfailing sympathy and undying love. Paul was an example of courage and dignity to us all. Moreen and Ed Carey and All Our Family
        CAREY-Paul R. On behalf of all of us at Triarc, we wish to express our most sincere condolences to our friend and Director, former Governor Hugh L. Carey of New York, and his family on the loss of Paul R. Carey. Nelson Peltz, Chairman & CEO Peter W. May, President & COO Triarc Companies, Inc.
        CAREY-Paul. We'll be looking at the moon, but we'll be seeing you. Carol and Josh
      