
        CAREY-Paul Robert, Commissioner-United States Securities and Exchange Commission passed away June 14, 2001 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Paul Robert Carey was born October 18, 1962, the beloved seventh son of Former Governor Hugh L. Carey and the late Helen Owen Carey. His two brothers Hugh L. Carey, Jr. and Peter G. Carey predeceased him. He is survived by his loving family and friends including his brothers and sisters: Alexandria McManus (Hank), Christopher (Bonnie), Susan Dempsey (Marty), Michael, Donald, Marianne Hayes (Dennis), Nancy Cassidy (Tom), Helen O'Neill (Martin), Bryan (Catherine), Kevin (Mary Jo), Thomas (Amy), his loving nieces and nephews Peter Hugh, Eileen, Tom, Beth (Bryan), Erich, Kate, Susie, Ted, Maureen, Hugh, Donnie, Owen, Delia, Thomas Hugh & Elizabeth. Many loving friends, including his close friend Jackie Chorney, also survive him. Paul was a graduate of the Doane Stuart School and Colgate University. After a career in Institutional Equities, Paul joined the Clinton/ Gore 1992 Presidential Campaign, as Northeast finance director. In the new administration, he worked in the White House as Special Assistant to the President for legislative affairs, handling banking, financial services and securities matters, primarily working with the United States Senate. He also worked on judicial selection and handled Senate confirmation for many administration nominees. In 1997, Paul was nominated and confirmed to serve as Commissioner of the Securities Exchange Commission. While at the Commission Paul Carey led the Commission's efforts to provide information to lawmakers regarding the privatization of Social Security. He also served as liaison to the North American Securities Administrators Association. Paul lived life to the fullest and continued his public service each day of his life. As a member of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as well as in his service in the White House administration of President Bill Clinton, Paul strived to make life better for all of those whom he touched and for those less fortunate. Paul was a man of great accomplishments, stature and elegance. Paul loved to travel to distant parts of the world and was well received wherever he called including a number of United States Embassies. Most recently, Paul took great joy in attending the investiture of the Cardinals in Rome, including Edward Cardinal Egan of the Archdiocese of New York. From the earliest days, Paul held an affection for the developmentally disabled. As a child, he provided loving care to the developmentally challenged at Camp Shelter Island and as a young man he worked with physically challenged skiers in Windham, N.Y. As a son, a brother, an uncle and a friend he brought a whole new meaning to the fun that life has to offer and shared it with everyone he touched. Paul's strength, love and generosity will continue with the Carey family and his friends forever. With God's grace he gave and received as much love as anyone could ever have dreamed of or desired in life. The family wishes to thank all the caregivers, nurses and doctors who cared for and treated Paul during his lengthy illness. In lieu of flowers the family wishes that Paul be remembered by donations to Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021 or St. Gabriel's Spiritual Center for Youth, P.O. Box 3015, Shelter Island Heights, NY 11965. A mass will be celebrated at St. Patrick's Cathedral at 10:00 AM on Monday June 18, 2001. Viewing will be at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home on Saturday and Sunday from 2:00 PM to 5:00 PM and from 7:00 PM to 9:00 PM. For inquiries contact Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel at (212) 288-3500. We Know. The Carey Family
        CAREY-Paul. God has not promised skies always blue, flowerstrewn pathways all our lives through, God has not promised sun without rain, joy without sorrow, peace without pain. But God has promised strength for the day, rest for the labor, light for the way, Grace for the trials, help from above, unfailing sympathy and undying love. Paul was an example of courage and dignity to us all. Moreen and Ed Carey and All Our Family
        CAREY-Paul R. He pursued a family tradition of public service with grace, humility, uncommon courage and energetic intelligence. In a few short years hemade his mark and left us who knew him proud and deeply saddened. To his family and the Governor, our heartfelt sympathy and prayers. Louise Sunshine & Martin Begun
        CAREY-Paul R. On behalf of all of us at Triarc, we wish to express our most sincere condolences to our friend and Director, former Governor Hugh L. Carey of New York, and his family on the loss of Paul R. Carey. Nelson Peltz, Chairman & CEO Peter W. May, President & COO Triarc Companies, Inc.
      