
        O'CONNOR-Mary S. Age 88, passed away on June 10, 2001 at Meadow Lake in Hightstown, NJ. Mrs. O'Connor was born in New Britain, CT and resided in Elizabeth, NJ for many years before moving to Meadow Lakes in June of 1996. Mrs. O'Connor is an alumnus of the Oxford School in West Hartford, CT and graduated from Smith College in 1935 before embarking upon a dynamic and illustrious career in business and a life of service to many community organizations. Mrs. O'Connor had a extensive career with IBM Corporation, one which began in 1935 when she was among the first 25 women employed for Sytems Service work and was assigned to the Newark office where she assisted salesmen in serving customers. Mrs. O'Connor later served as Personnel Manager at IBM World Headquarters in NYC and Systems Service Manager for the United States. In 1943 she was promoted to the corporate level as the first woman Assistant Vice President of the Company. Mrs. O'Connor visited almost every corporate office in the United States and Canada in this position while she worked with IBM's sales, service and engineering personnel and the corporation's customers. Furthermore, Mrs. O'Connor was appointed Director of the United Jersey Bank-Central of Elizabeth, NJ, becoming one of the three, first, women bank directors in New Jersey, before serving as the Director of Fundamental Investors, Inc. and Anchor Growth Fund of Los Angeles, CA. She also served as Trustee and Secretary of the Nathan R. Leavitt Foundation, and she was a member of the Board of Directors of Washington National Life Insurance Company of New York. Moreover, Mrs. O'Connor had the distinction and honor of being appointed by New Jersey's Governor Hughes to the Commission on the Status of Women. Tireless in her efforts and assuming active, leadership roles within Union County community agencies, Mrs. O'Connor was a member of the Mental Health Association, the United Way and the Junior League. She most recently held the position of Director of the Board of Directors of the Eastern Union County Chamber of Commerce, representing the Women's Division. During her ten years of service to the Elizabeth Public Library, she served as President and Secretary. She was also Incorporator and Trustee of the United Fund of Eastern Union County. In addition to her community work, Mrs. O'Connor formerly served the Alumnae Association at Smith College where she served as Treasurer and Finance Chair between 1966 and 1972. Mrs. O'Connor's husband Martin B. O'Connor, who was a prominent New Jersey attorney, predeceased her in 1959. Mrs. O'Connor is survived by several nieces and nephews: Elizabeth A. Schultz of Lawrence, KS; Howard S. Schultz and his wife Tamra of Swartz Creek, MI; Martha P. Howland and her husband William C. of Riverside, CT; Richard R. O'Connor, Jr. and his wife Sena of Westfield, NJ and Martin B. O'Connor II and his wife Jane of Harding Township, NJ. Also surviving Mrs. O'Connor are many grandnieces and grandnephews, including Martha Crawford of Grand Blanc, MI; Lucy Hightree and her husband Norman L. of Chicago, IL; Katherine S. and Lauren B. O'Connor of Harding Township, NJ; and Richard R., Robert I., Ryan W. and Reed M. O'Connor of Westfield, NJ. In addition, there are two great grandnieces and one great grandnephew, Hillary, Mallary and Timmy Crawford of Grand Blanc, MI. A Memorial Service will be held on Friday, June 22, 2001, at 11:00 AM, at Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ. Contributions may be made in Mrs. O'Connors's memory to Smith College, Museum of Art, 33 Elm Street, Northampton, MA. 01063.
      