
        TURNER-George Cary. Died peacefully at home on June 15, 2001, at the age of 63, surrounded by his family. An innovative leader and insightful visionary in the insurance industry, his integrity, wisdom, and influence will be sorely missed. Beloved husband of Kathleen Streeter, devoted father of Stephen (Gretel) and Carrie Gordon (Donald), treasured stepfather of Megan Streeter, and adored grandfather of Gabrielle, Connor, Ethan and Ryan. He is also survived by his sister and brother-in-law, Joan and Bob Derrenbacker of Fayetteville, NY, and his aunt and uncle, Dr. Richard and Tommie Turner of Southbury, CT. A resident of Westport and Fairfield, CT, since 1968, George was born on May 23, 1938, in NYC, the son of Dr. Joseph Cary Turner (Dean of Medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University in 1960) and Eleanor Purvis Turner. He was educated at the Rectory and South Kent Schools, Hobart and William Smith Colleges and earned an MBA from Columbia University. George was the leading agent at the Pierz Agency (Darien/Norwalk, CT) of The Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company and recognized as an inspiration in the industry. He was also founder and president of Turner Financial, Inc. We are all richer for having had George in our lives and will hold him in our hearts forever. We will miss his special brand of intensity, competitiveness and love. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, June 23, 2001, at 10:30 AM, at the Greens Farms Congregational Church, 71 Hillandale Road, Westport, CT. The family requests that all donations be sent to the American Lung Association of the State of Washington, c/o of John Siegel, 2625 Third Avenue, Seattle, WA 98121. Proceeds will be used to establish the George Cary Turner Research Fund for Pulmonary Fibrosis. For more information, please visit George Cary Turner's profile on the American Lung Association of Washington's website at www.alaw.org/georgeturner. You can also contact John Siegel, Director of Major and Planned Gifts, either at 206-441-5100, ext 37, or john@alaw.org.
      