
        ABELES-Sophia. Died peacefully on June 5, 2001 at age 84 after a long struggle with rheumatoid arthritis and heart problems. Sophia is survived by her beloved husband, Joseph, her daughters Lucille and Barbara, her grandson Greg and his wife Nikki, and her great-grandchildren Nola, Lily and Ezra. She is predeceased by her beloved daughter Nancy. Sophia lived her life passionately involved in the life of her husband, her children and far reaching activities in support of education and the arts. She loved and cared for her family. She traveled with and participated in her husband's business worlds and brought a richness to the lives of everyone around the world who knew her. She loved, advised and supported her children with patience and humor. She devoted most of her life to helping the lives of others, mostly through education. She believed that helping people to receive an education was one of the greatest gifts that anyone could offer. While serving for twelve years on the Pocantico Hills School Board, she was elected to be the first female president of the Board. Prior to that, she served as the President of the PTA in Thornwood. She co-founded the first area network group of female school board members, which has grown from four members to sixty since its inception. Most recently, she served on the board of the Westchester Community College Foundation for seventeen years, during which time she served as vice president, a member of the Executive Committee and as chair of the Executive Committee. She co-founded and served for ten years on The Board of the Affiliates for SUNY at Purchase, which was formed to advance and better the life of SUNY students and provide a strong link with the community. Over thirty years ago Sophia and Joe started the Nancy Jo Abeles Scholarship Fund, which continues today to provide financial support to those qualified and motivated students who wish to further their education. She was Vice President and Chair of Programming for the Westchester Federation of Women s Clubs. She served on the Historic Preservation Committee, which conceived the two-year Westchester Landmarks Project. In 1987 she was awarded the first annual Arts In Education awards by the Council for the Arts in Westchester. She served as a trustee on the council for six years. Sophia was an accomplished gardener with a special interest in bonsai. She and Joe loved to travel, especially to Europe and Japan. Sophia was a graduate of Hunter High School and Hunter College. A service will be held at the Riverside Memorial Chapel in Mount Vernon on Friday, June 8th at 1:30 pm. The address is 21 Broad Street, Mt. Vernon, NY 10552. The phone number is 914664-6800. The family asks that in lieu of flowers, donations in Sophia's honor can be made to the Stephen Abramson Research Support Fund, c/o Stephen Abramson, NYU Medical Center, Division of Rheumatology, 550 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016.
        ABELES-Sophia. With hearfelt sympathy to Joe, Lucille, Barbara and family on the loss of your dear wife and mother, Sophia. She was an elegant, beautiful and courageous woman from whom we learned enduring lessons on the human spirit. Our sincerest condolences at this sad time. Steven and Susan Abramson
        ABELES-Sophia. Purchase College State University of New York and the Purchase College Foundation mourn the passing of our beloved friend Sophia Abeles, a great benefactor to students of Purchase College. Her generosity over several decades enabled hundreds of students to realize their educational aspirations. Bill Lacy, President, Purchase College SUNY Emily Grant, Chair, Purchase College Foundation Board of Trustees.
      