
        BENTLEY-Charlotte Marie Fowler. Peacefully passed away on June 24 at Cabrini Hospice after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Col. Robert A.L. Bentley. She is survived by many loving friends. A native of St. Louis and a 1930 graduate of Smith College, she spent the remainder of her life in New York where she was involved in numerous charitable, military and fraternal organizations. Funeral service will be held 5:30PM Wednesday, June 27, 2001 at the First Presbyterian Church in the City of New York. Private interment at Mt. View Cemetery, Olean, NY. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Memorial Fund of the First Presbyterian Church in the City of New York, 12 West 12th Street, NY, NY 10011.
        BENTLEY-Charlotte Marie Fowler. The Officers & Directors of the Soldiers', Sailors', Marines' and Airmen's Club regret deeply the passing of our remarkable and generous friend & Board Member of many years. Indefatigable nonagenerian that she was, with every one of her faculties sharply intact, she quietly left us Sunday morning. Her charitable efforts and cogent recommendations on our House Committee over the years, were a constant and major factor in our upgrading the services and creature comforts that we are able to provide our Military guests and families today in 2001, and beyond. Ivan Obolensky, Chairman Joseph Koletar, President Martin Edelman, Exec. Director
        BENTLEY-Charlotte Marie Fowler. The Officers & members of the Saint George's Society of New York express their profound sorrow at the passing of their esteemed Executive Committee member, Mrs. Charlotte Marie Fowler Bentley. She was a loyal and generous supporter of the Society, and a lady of rare wit and character. She shall be sorely missed by us all. William R. Miller OBE, President Victor E. Stewart, Secretary
        BENTLEY-Dame Charlotte Marie Fowler. The Priory of St. Michael and St. George of the S.M.O.T.J. regret the passing of our dear friend. Espousing the best of Christian virtues, Charlotte was devoted to her friends, her community, her country and God. She made the world a better place to live in, we will all feel her loss. She will be missed. Chev. Edmund Allen Voyer, Prior
        BENTLEY-Charlotte F. The Officers and members of The New England Society in The City of New York mourn the death on June 24, 2001 of our longtime Director and member, Mrs. Charlotte F. Bentley. We will miss her keen intellect, sound judgment, great generosity, and most of all, the pleasure of her company. C. Harvey Kelley, President James G. Black, Secretary
      