
        ABELES-Sophia. The Board of Trustees, the Foundation Board of Directors, the faculty and the students of Westchester Community College will greatly miss the warmth and caring presence of their colleague, friend and benefactor, Sophia Abeles. As an individual, and in her capacity as vice president and member of the WCC Foundation Board, her commitment to ensuring accessibility to quality public education has created a legacy that will have a lasting impact upon untold numbers of individuals for generations to come. Through her vision, leadership and generosity at the college, as well as other areas throughout the community, she taught us many lessons and unselfishly crafted extraordinary opportunities for countless men and women. We will work to ensure that her ideals and the fruits of her life's work will continue to flourish and grow. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Joe, Lucille and Barbara, and the other members of the family. Hon. Timothy S. Carey, Chairman Westchester Community College Board of Trustees Joseph N. Hankin, President Westchester Community College Jack Stadler, Chairman Westchester Community College Foundation
        ABELES-Sophia. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of NYU Medical Center note with sadness the passing of our cherished friend, devoted supporter and generous benefactor, Sophia Abeles. Through the Joseph and Sophia Abeles Foundation Inc., Mrs. Abeles championed the cause of medical education at NYU, making generous donations to research programs in arthritis, cardiology and rehabilitation medicine. She and her husband Joseph also were tireless supporters of education generally. Through endowed scholarships and other programs targeting lowincome youth, she showed what the combination of commitment and generosity can accomplish. Mrs. Abeles was an exceptional individual who will be sorely missed by all. We send our sincere condolences to her husband and loved ones. Kenneth Langone, Chairman NYU School of Medicine Foundation Board of Trustees Robert M. Glickman, M.D., Dean NYU School of Medicine Theresa A. Bischoff, President NYU Hospitals Center Steven B. Abramson, M.D. Vice Dean for Medical Education Director, Div of Rheumatology NYU School of Medicine
        ABELES-Sophia. A gracious, elegant, good hearted, courageous woman. She spent most of her life as a dedicated philanthropist. She firmly believed that each individual deserves an education and an opportunity to succeed. Beloved by all, she was the most wonderful spouse, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother and friend. We all will miss her for many years to come. Doris and Saul Farber
        ABELES-Sophia. Gracious and kind, an indomitable spirit of positiveness, who truly practiced the principles of rehabilitation medicine. We are indebted to her for having touched our lives. To her husband Joseph and family, our sympathy. Mathew Lee, M.D., FACP Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine Rusk Institute-NYU
        ABELES-Sophia. Elmwood Country Club acknowledges with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Sophia Abeles. Beloved and devoted wife of Joseph Abeles. Services today at 1:30 PM, Riverside Memorial Chapel, Mt. Vernon, NY; 914-664-6800.
      