
        BREED-William Constable III, 66, died Monday July 9, 2001 following complications after a courageous battle with Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Breed was co-founder and president of Edgewood Management Company in New York and lived in Greenwich, Connecticut. Prior to founding Edgewood Management Company in 1974, Mr. Breed was a vice president of Channing Management Corporation, responsible for the firm's New York investment office. He joined Channing in 1970 from his previous position as President of the investment advisory firm of Cannell, Breed & Musser, Inc. Before that, he had formed and supervised the Investment Advisory Department of F. Eberstadt & Company. Mr. Breed began his investment career in 1962 as a portfolio manager at the Marine Midland Trust Company of New York. Mr. Breed also served as a company commander in the United States Army at Fort Bliss, Texas and was honorably discharged as a first lieutenant in 1961. Mr. Breed was a well-known amateur athlete. His championship victories spanned a period of four decades from 1964 to 1991. Included in this time were twelve tennis titles, four club championships in golf and he was a finalist in the United States National Paddle Tennis Championship in 1969. Mr. Breed was active in many charitable and civic endeavors and served on a number of boards of directors, including Junior Achievement, The International Peace Academy, Manhattan Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat Hospital, The Round Hill Club in Greenwich, and the Stony WoldHerbert Foundation. He was also a former finance committee member of the Committee on Trust Funds for the Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States. Mr. Breed was born and raised in New York City. He was a graduate of the Buckley Country Day School in New York, St. Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire, and Middlebury College. He did graduate work in business at The Business School of New York University. He was the son of the late William C. Breed, Jr. and Ellen Whitman Breed. Mr. Breed was a devoted husband, father and grandfather. He is survived by his wife of 43 years, Rebecca, and four children: William C. Breed IV of Richmond, VA, and Alan W. Breed, Michael S. Breed, and Rebecca B. Richardson, all of Greenwich. Eleven grandchildren and a sister, Mrs. Foye Staniford of New York, also survive him. A celebration of his life will be held at Christ Church, 254 East Putnam Avenue, Greenwich, Connecticut on Friday, July 13, 2001 at 11:00 A.M. In lieu of flowers, the family would greatly appreciate contributions to: The Mayo Foundation for Alzheimer's Disease Research, 200 First Street Southwest, Rochester, Minnesota 55905.
        BREED-William Constable III. Died in Greenwich, CT. on July 9, 2001. Survived by his wife Rebecca S. Breed, three sons William C. Breed IV, Alan W. Breed, Michael S. Breed, a daughter Rebecca B. Richardson, a sister Ellen Staniford, & 11 grandchildren. Services will be held at 11 A.M. on Friday in Christ Church, 254 East Putnam Avenue, Greenwich, CT. Memorial contributions may be made to Mayo Foundation for Alzheimer's Research, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN. 55905.
      