
        STOTT-Gordon D., youngest son of the late Louis N. and Ethel (Doulton) Stott of Santa Barbara, California died Thursday, July 19, 2001 in the John Dempsey Hospital of the University of Connecticut Medical Center in Farmington, CT, of pneumonia. He was 91. Mr. Stott was born in Los Angeles, CA and attended the Thacher School in Ojai, CA and the Loomis School at Windsor, CT. He entered the brokerage business in the summer of 1929 as a runner for his father's firm of Logan & Bryan. He joined A.G. Edwards and Sons in 1938, and the following year, as partner, became a member of the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Stott was inducted in 1942 into the Counter Intelligence Corps, and later transferred to Special Branch, Military Intelligence, stationed in Washington, D.C. After the war and continuing for the next fifty years, Mr. Stott was involved in mineral and real estate activities in the mountain states and joined the Salt Lake Stock Exchange. He served as President of Chief Consolidated Mines and later as Chairman of Park City Consolidated, both Utah companies, and was a member of the Alta Club in Salt Lake City. For almost 20 years beginning in the early 60's, he delivered a popular radio commentary, the ''Human Side of Wall Street'', for WVIP in Mount Kisco, NY, reminiscences of years in the securities business. In the mid 60's, he was instrumental in establishing a brokerage office (now Solomon Smith Barney) in Mount Kisco. Mr. Stott was an active member of the Amateur Chamber Music Players and played cello in Washington, D.C., New York City, Salt Lake City and in Westchester County, NY. He was a founding member of the Chappaqua Chamber Orchestra and played with that organization for many years. Mr. Stott is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Hubbard Stott of Farmington, his son, Peter H. Stott of Paris, France and daughters, Janet Stott Pembleton of Beverly Hills, California and Sarah Stott Noyle of Tampa, Florida. A memorial service will be held at St. Mark's Church, 85 East Main St., Mt. Kisco, New York at 2 PM, Sunday, July 22, 2001. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to The Thacher School, 5025 Thacher Rd, Ojai, CA 93023, or to the Amateur Chamber Music Players, 1123 Broadway, Room 304, NY, NY 10010-2007.
      