
        SOLOVEICHIK-Rebbitzin Ella (nee Shurin). Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of an aishet chayil and educator, beloved wife of Rabbi Aaron Soloveichik, devoted alumnus, renowned Talmudic scholar, and RIETS rosh yeshiva. Rabbi Soloveichik, continues a family tradition begun in 1929, when his father, Rabbi Moshe Soloveichik, joined the RIETS faculty, and furthered by his brother, the late Rabbi Dr. Joseph B. Soloveitchik and himself. We extend sincere condolences also to her children: Moshe (and Debra) Soloveichik, Eliyahu (and Esther) Soloveichik, Yosef (and Leah) Soloveichik, Rachel Leah (and Rabbi Raphael) Marcus, Tovah (and Rabbi Gershon) Segal, and Chayim (and Pircha) Soloveichik; her siblings: Rabbi Aaron Shurin, a member of the Stern College for Women faculty; Rabbi Tzvi Shurin; Rabbi Israel Shurin; Chaviva Zwick; Chasida Berkowitz; and Donna Peikes; her adored 37 grandchildren and 7 great-grandchildren; and 30 nieces and nephews, including Rabbi Dr. Haym Soloveichik, faculty member of our Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies. A loving and nurturing partner of her husband for 53 years, Rebbitzin Soloveichik was a widely admired teacher in Chicago's Hannah Sacks Girls School, where she taught Bible, Jewish History, Hebrew, and Yiddish. The rabbinic adage ''Eshet Chaver Kechaverthe wife of a great scholar is regarded as a scholar'' describes her perfectly; she earned that accolade through her loyalty to family and to her multitude of students throughout all circumstances. May this noble and erudite matriarch in Israel be a ''righteous pleader'' for all Israel, and may her entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Julius Berman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees
        SOLOVEICHIK - Rebbetzin Ella. The Orthodox Union mourns the passing of Rebbetzin Ella Soloveichik, wife of our revered mentor, Rabbi Aaron Soloveichik. A woman of valor, with unsurpassed dignity and courage, admired as a master educator. May the distinguished family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Harvey Blitz, President Mandell I. Ganchrow, M.D., Chairman of the Board Rabbi Menachem Genack, Rabbinic Administrator, Kashruth Department
      