
        RANINGA-Dilsukh, MD. With great sadness the family, friends and colleagues of Dilsukh Raninga mourn his passing and celebrate his life of service and achievements. Beloved husband of Irene DeLizzo and father of Steven, Amit and Christina, Dr. Raninga is also survived by his father Vasanji Raninga of Dhanka, India, mother and father-in-law Diane and Frank DeLizzo, daughter-in-law Chila and granddaughter Bianca, four sisters and three brothers. Born in Dhank, Dr. Raninga received his medical degree from Baroda Medical School. While maintaining his cardiology practice in Brooklyn, NY, Dr. Raninga also served as Chief of Cardiology and Physician in charge of the intensive care unit at New York Community Hospital. He was also attending cardiologist at Beth Israel Hospital. Wake to be held at Scotto Funeral Home, 106 1st Place, Brooklyn, NY. Hindu funeral rite to be celebrated at Green-Wood cemetery on Saturday, July 14, 2001 at 9:30 AM.
        RANINGA-Dilsukh, M.D. The physicians, nurses and staff of Beth Israel Medical Center-Kings Highway Division (KHD) acknowledge with sadness the passing of our dear friend and beloved colleague, Dilsukh Raninga, M.D., a dedicated cardiologist & member of the Division's medical staff since 1980. In addition to providing quality patient care, Dr. Raninga furthered ongoing professional education at the Kings Highway Division through important updates on cardiologic care. To his family, friends and loved ones we extend our deepest sympathies. Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO Sidney K. Stein, M.D. President, Medical Board John Byrne, VP for Admin-KHD Donald Ginsberg, M.D. Associate Medical Dir-KHD Philip Schmidt, M.D. Associate Chairman Department of Medicine-KHD Robert L. Salant, M.D. President, Doctors Alumni Assoc
        RANINGA-Dilsukh, M.D. The medical staff of NY Community Hospital expresses deepest condolences to the family of Dr. Dilsukh Raninga, Chief of Cardiology and prominent member of the medical staff. He will be deeply missed. Bernard Yonk, M.D. President of Medical Staff
        RANINGA-Dilsukh, M.D. The New York Community Hospital family mourns the loss of Dr. Raninga, Chief of Cardiology and Chief of ICU. Our condolences to his wife Irene and his family. Lin H. Mo, President and CEO
      