
        GREGORY-The Reverend Protopresbyter Basil S, a priest of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese and President of Latsis U.S.A. Inc/ SETE Consultants & Services (USA) Inc, reposed on July 12 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. Father Basil was a priest for over five decades, serving Greek Orthodox Communities in Scranton, Chicago, Pittsburgh, Brooklyn and Manhattan, where he served St. George Tropsoforos Church for 25 years until his retirement in 1998. From 1964 to 1970, he was the Director of Economic Development of the Greek Orthdox Archdiocese, and later served as the Director of the Office of Press and Information. In addition to his ecclesiastical service, in 1970, he established the U.S. office of the Greek shipping magnate, John S. Latsis, where he served as its president until his passing. He was a 1948 graduate of Holy Cross Greek Orthodox School of Theology in Brookline, MA, and in 1964 earned an MBA from the University of Pittsburgh. He had served on the Boards of the St Michael's Home for the Aged(in Yonkers), Atlantic Bank of New York, the Manhattan School of Music, the American Symphony Orchestra, Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce, and was the President of the American Associates of the St Catherine Foundation(the trust for the conservation of the Library at the St Catherine Monastery in the Sinai Desert). He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Anne, his children Andre and Maria, and Nicholas and Athena and his grandchildren Christina, Marianna, Alexander, Anastasia and Vasiliki. Visiting hours will commence Sunday at 4PM at St George Greek Orthodox Church, 307 West 54 Street. Funeral Monday. Liturgy will commence at 9:30AM at the Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Cathedral, 319 East 74 St, NYC. Interment Greenwood Union Cemetery, Rye, NY. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be made to New York Hospital Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, 525 East 69th St, Room P695, NY, NY 10021. The American Associates of the St Catherine Foundation, 712 Fifth Ave, Suite 9-D, NY, NY 10019.
      