
        IRWIN-Jane German. Widow of former US Ambassador to France and Manhattan lawyer, John N. Irwin II died on July 11 of Cancer. She was 74. Mrs. Irwin who lived in New Canaan, CT. was a loving mother and grandmother with a generous giving spirit. She was active in charitable endeavors having particular involvement in matters related to theology and theological institutions. At the time of her death she was a Board Member of The Princeton Theological Seminary, The Henry Luce Foundation and The Asia Foundation. Mrs. Irwin was also active in, and in many cases a Board Member of, The Friends of the Museum of Princeton University where she was one of the first Docents, The Girl Scouts of Greater NY, The Center of Theological Inquiry in Princeton, NJ and The Hoover Institution in Stanford, CA. Mrs. Irwin was born in Archer City, TX, married Watkins W. Reynolds, Jr., a Fort Worth rancher and businessman with whom she had two children both of whom survive her and are living in Fort Worth, Watkins W. Reynolds III and Thomas B. Reynolds. Mr. Reynolds died in 1957. After Mr. Reynolds' death, Mrs. Irwin married Carl D. Reimers, Jr., a Presbyterian Minister who was Assistant Dean of Princeton University Chapel. They had one child Carl D. Reimers III who lives in Greenwich, CT. In 1976 Jane married John N. Irwin II and was the stepmother to his children, Jane W. I. Droppa of Ellicott City, MD and John N. Irwin III of Greenwich, CT. In addition to her three children and two stepchildren, Mrs. Irwin is survived by her mother, Mrs. R. T. German of Midland, TX, 12 grandchildren, Watkins Reynolds IV, Ellen Reynolds, Thomas Reynolds, Jr., William Reynolds, Grace Reynolds, Grace Reimers, Charles Reimers, Anna Irwin, Genevieve Irwin, Jack Droppa, Daniel Droppa and Katherine Droppa. Mrs. Irwin will be remembered by her family and many friends for her wit, personal warmth and lively intelligence. The family interment will be in Fort Worth, TX on Saturday. A memorial service will be held in NY at The Brick Presbyterian Church on Friday, July 27. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to: Princeton Theological Seminary or to The Girl Scout Council of Greater NY.
        IRWIN-Jane German, 74. The directors and staff of the Henry Luce Foundation deeply mourn the loss of their colleague and friend who served on the foundation's board with distinction from 1990 to 2001 and was chairman of its compensation and new programs and major grants committees. We will remember her exceptional warmth, grace and wisdom, and extend deepest sympathy to her family. Henry Luce III, Chairman John W. Cook, President
      