
        SHERMAN-Irving H., who passed away July 21, 2001, had a front-row seat at many of the pivotal events of the 20th century. Born and raised in NYC, he graduated from Stuyvesant High School and attended Cornell University on scholarship. Mr. Sherman was a key member of A.G. Becker and Co., Inc., where his exacting but supportive leadership created an atmosphere that attracted the best of Wall Street. He was an active member and governor of the NY and American Stock Exchanges. After his retirement in 1967 and until his 100th birthday, he maintained offices at S.G. Cowen and later at Oppenheimer and Close, Inc. His knowledge of the century's best and most important investment banking underwritings demonstrated his intellectual strengths until the end. An expert in the commercial paper field, he led the marketing of German dollar bonds in the 1930's. Contacts Mr. Sherman made during this period provided the base of his aggressive help to the German Jewish community. He was personally involved in helping the escape of innumerable Jews and funneling funds to those in need. He was forced to end these activities in 1939, but his commitment to the Jewish community continued for the balance of his business career. At the start of WWII, he was recruited for the OSS, and after the war was involved in the reestablishment of the German banking system. Irv Sherman is survived by his loving wife of close to 60 years, Marie Vandeputte Sherman; two stepchildren, Richard Barzin of Marco Island, FL and Lora Childs of Spring Island, SC; a niece, Dr. Ruth Pike of State College, PA; a grand-nephew, Dr. Carl Pike; 7 grandchildren; 7 greatgrandchildren; and 2 great greatgrandchildren. A memorial service will be held at the Cornell Club-NY on July 30 at 5 PM. Gifts may be made to the Sherman Scholarship Fund at Cornell University, 55 Brown Rd., Ithaca, NY 14850, or United Jewish Appeal.
        SHERMAN-Irving H. Cornell University mourns the loss of a close friend, advisor, and alumni leader, Irving H. Sherman. A 1922 graduate of Cornell's College of Arts and Sciences, he went on to a long and distinguished career in investment banking with A.G. Becker and Company. Before World War II, he worked for Becker in Germany, where he used his influence to help many Jews escape the country. A former member of the Council on Foreign Relations, he returned to Germany after the war as a negotiator at the behest of the U.S. Government. Charming, cheerful, and generous, he made Cornell a priority throughout his life. He was a life member of the Cornell University Council, a founding member of the Cornell Club-New York, and an enthusiastic supporter of the Cornell Plantations. A mentor and friend to many Cornellians, he encouraged generations of Cornell alumni to follow in his example by strengthening their ties to the University. The Cornell community will miss the leadership and wise counsel of this remarkable son of Cornell. Harold Tanner, Chairman, Board of Trustees, Cornell University Hunter R. Rawlings III, President, Cornell University Stephen H. Weiss, Past Chairman, Board of Trustees, Cornell University
      