
        FRIEDLANDER-Ralph. Of Great Neck, NY. Beloved husband of Frankie Spinoza Friedlander. Devoted father of Vivien Konsker. Stepfather of Debra Liberman and Vicki Reynolds. Cherished brother of Hannah Erlich. Loving grandfather of Joshua Konsker, Laura and Melissa Reynolds. Fond brother-in-law of Marilyn and Robert Weinberg. Dear uncle of Bambi, Mickey and Yossi. Graveside services 2 PM, Tuesday, Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, NY. Contributions in Ralph's memory to North ShoreLIJ Health Systems. For additional information call Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 212-769-4400.
        FRIEDLANDER - Ralph. North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of our esteemed Trustee Ralph Friedlander. His commitment to fulfilling our mission of excellence in health care, research and education will be missed. His personal involvement and participation on the Cardiology Leadership Committee and the Research Board helped the advancement of our Cardiology Centers and the North ShoreLong Island Jewish Research Institute. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman Board of Trustees John S.T. Gallagher, CEO, North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        FRIEDLANDER-Raphael. We extend our most profound sympathy and condolences to Frankie, Vivian, and their entire families. We express our gratitude to Ralph for his 40 years of association with our company, his tireless efforts setting an example for everyone. Above all, Ralph saw himself as a teacher and was always anxious to pass along his lifetime of experiences. His mentoring and tutelage provided guidance for all and his consistent message of complete dedication and effort is timeless. We are grateful for his lifetime of contribution and deeply mourn his passing. His Friends & Colleagues at Norca
        FRIEDLANDER-Ralph D. Beloved brother-in-law to Marilyn and Bob; wonderful uncle to Eileen and Larry; a responsible, respected, charitable, warm human being who has been devoted to his extended family and will be sadly missed by all of us. Our sincerest condolences to his wonderful wife Francine and loving daughter Vivian. Marilyn and Robert Weinberg Eileen and Larry Toulouse
        FRIEDLANDER-Raphael D. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, Members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club, record the passing of Raphael D. Friedlander, an esteemed member of our club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Francine, and the entire family. Martin Rosenman, President Mark Claster, Secretary
        FRIEDLANDER-Ralph. In memory of Ralph Friedlander, a valued and dear family friend, our love and condolences to Frankie, (and the thoughts that our father is with one of his favorite buddies). Katja, Dorian, Lloyd Goldman and families.
        FRIEDLANDER-Ralph. Here's to many fun memories: London, La Grenouille, Muttontown, Fresh Meadow. Say hello to your pal Irving for me. I will be forever grateful to you and Frankie for always being there for me. Glo Goldman
        FRIEDLANDER-Ralph D. You were my mentor and my closest friend. Thank you for your advice and guidance. Frankie, my heartfelt sympathy to you and all the children. Murray, Jill and Rory Breidbart
      