
        BERGREEN-Morris. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the death of one of our staunchest advocates and friends whose sensitivity and encouragement spurred the Theater's efforts to identify and nurture American playwrights We will miss his wise and generous counsel and convey our condolences and warm affection to Adele. Lincoln Center Theater Linda LeRoy Janklow, Chairman John Chalsty, President Joan Straus Cullman, Vice Chair Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Exec. Producer
        BERGREEN - Morris H. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum observe with great sorrow the passing of Morris H. Bergreen, our generous friend and benefactor. As the President of the Skirball Foundation, he supported the Museum's expansion in 1993, and also helped make it possible for the public to enjoy many of our exhibitions. We express our condolences to his wife Adele and their family. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President Joan Rosenbaum, Helen Goldsmith Menschel Dir.
        BERGREEN-Morris H. The Board of Directors and staff of Grand Street Settlement are saddened by the passing of Morris H. Bergreen, a dedicated Board Member since 1956. Through his generosity, commitment, and service to Grand Street Settlement, Mr. Bergreen enriched the Lower East Side community and provided opportunities for its families. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Adele, and the Bergreen family. Ann Unterberg, President Margarita Rosa, Exec. Director
        BERGREEN-Morris H. It is with sadness that the Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Morris H. Bergreen. A true friend of the performing arts, Mr. Bergreen was a kind and generous man who will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Adele, as well as his family, friends and associates. Beverly Sills, Chairman Gordon J. Davis, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        BERGREEN-Morris. The Board of Directors and staff of American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and the faculty and administration of the University, mourn the loss of Morris Bergreen, a friend, advisor and generous supporter. Our deepest condolences to the entire family. Professor Avishay Braverman, President, BGU Robert Arnow, Chairman Emeritus Zvi Alon, President, AABGU Seth Moskowitz, Exec VP, AABGU
        BERGREEN-Morris H. We mourn the loss of our friend and advisor of forty years. Our heartfelt condolences to Adele, Laurence and the Bergreen family. The Weiler and Arnow Families
      