
        EISENSTEIN-Rabbi Ira. On June 28, in Silver Spring, MD. Husband of the late Judith. Father of Ethan, Miriam and Ann. Grandfather of Aaron Johnson. Funeral services Adat Shalom Reconstructionist Congregation, 7727 Persimmon Tree Lane, Bethesda, MD, 11AM Sunday, July 1. Interment at Judean Memorial Gardens, Olney, MD. Contributions to the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College.
        EISENSTEIN-Ira, Rabbi. Our teacher, our mentor, our colleague, our friend. We are grateful for his long life and grieved at his passing. From Ira Eisenstein we learned that unity in diversity is not merely a slogan, but an ethical committment; that a soft word is more effective than a harsh one; that our thinking, whatever directions it may take, must be clear, consistent and reasonable; and most importantly that Klal Yisrael, the entire Jewish people, is both our source of nourishment and our constituency. His determination to make Reconstructionist Judaism into a movement, and to establish the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College, made it possible for us to become rabbis; wherever we reach and teach people in the spirit of open inquiry and intellectual honesty, his legacy endures. Our deepest condolences to his family who so lovingly shared him with us. With love and respect, from his students, the colleagues of the Reconstructionist Rabinical Association.
        EISENSTEIN-Ira. Founder of the Reconstructionist movement and the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College, he was a rabbi, a scholar and a mensch who embodied in his daily actions everything that he believed in, and dedicated his life to making his dreams for the Jewish people a reality. He believed the godly was made manifest in how we treat each other and he lived by that philosophy himself. We will long remember his visionary courage. His undaunted spirit and great heart will be missed by his students, faculty and Board of Governors of the College. May his memory be a blessing to his children and grandson. Aaron Ziegelman Donald L. Shapiro David A. Teutsch
        EISENSTEIN-Rabbi Ira. The Board, Staff and affiliated communities of the Jewish Reconstructionist Federation, express profound sorrow at the passing of our mentor, movement-builder and friend. His vision and leadership were instrumental in creating and nurturing our movement. We express heartfelt condolences to his daughters, Miriam and Anne. May his memory be a blessing. Richard Haimowitz, President Mark Seal, Exec. V.P.
        EISENSTEIN-Ira. Devoted Rabbi, Editor and Educator. His integrity, love of Jewish Civilization, Peoplehood, Social Ethics, and Enlightened Religion enriched many lives. His encouragement of Media Judaica during its formative years is recalled with gratitude. Rabbi Jonathan D. Levine The Directors of Media Judaica
      