
        HOPKINS-B. Smith, M.D., M.P.H. Of Larchmont, N.Y. age 53, of lymphoma. Williams College '69, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons '75, trained as a general surgeon and practiced at Roosevelt Hospital for 18 years, most recently as Associate Medical Director of St. LukesRoosevelt Hospital. An exceptionally kind and caring surgeon, committed to the highest standards of medical practice and totally devoted to his patients and family. Survivors include his father, B. Smith, Jr. of Savoy, IL, brothers John and Stephen, sons Daniel and Benjamin, and wife, Alice Prince. Contributions to the MGH Bone Marrow Transplant unit, Boston, MA would be welcomed.
        HOPKINS-B. Smith, MD. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt (SLR) Hospital Center Family joins with the leadership of Continuum Health Partners in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our very dear friend, B. Smith Hopkins, MD, a beloved, longtime member of the hospital's medical staff and Associate Medical Director for Quality Improvement. Dr. Hopkins forever will be remembered for his outstanding commitment to patient care and for his tireless efforts to help continuously improve care delivery at St. Luke's-Roosevelt. He will be greatly missed by his patients, his colleagues and everyone with whom he worked throughout his career. To his wife Alice, the entire Hopkins family and all who loved him, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Board of Trustees, Continuum Lawrence S. Huntington Vice-Chariman, Board of Trustees, Continuum and Chairman, Board of Trustees, SLR Peter A. Kelly President and CEO, Continuum Richard W. Kimball Chair, SLR Trustee Committee for Quality Improvement Sigurd H. Ackerman, MD President and CEO, SLR J. Thomas Barnard, MD President, Medical Board, SLR Richard F. Daines, MD SR VP and Medical Director, SLR Timothy Day, VP Quality Initiatives, SLR
        HOPKINS-B. Smith, MD. The Medical Board of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center wishes to express our condolences to the family of our friend and colleague, B. Smith Hopkins, MD. Dr. Hopkins served with distinction on many committees of the Medical Board, including the Executive Committee. He also was Chairman of the Quality and Performance Improvement Committee and Chairman of the Quality Assurance Subcommittee at the Roosevelt Division. It is with great sadness that we note the passing of our esteemed colleague. J. Thomas Barnard, MD President, Medical Board, SLR William Winkler, MD President-Elect and the other Officers of the Medical Board
      