
        FESSLER-Adele (nee Rubinstein). Of Concordia, Monroe Township, Cranbury, NJ died on Saturday July 21, 2001 age 81 at Princeton Hospital, where during her final week she was surrounded constantly by her children, grandchildren, spouses, infant great-grandson on her hospital 7th floor. She became ill early this year and at once dealt with determination directly and made the decisions required. Her youngest child, Dr. Henry Fessler of Towson, MD, physician and also in research at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, coordinated medical specialists and her care at Princeton, Johns Hopkins and at home. She was predeceased thirteen years ago August 7, 1988 in Concordia by her cherished and talented husband, Abe. She was a full time working partner in his fur store in Morristown maintaining financial records, showroom sales, while he designed, sold, pursued sculpture and paintings which won prizes and taught adult art classes. Adele was an active office volunteer for many years at Jewish Family Services and remained a lifelong friend of neighbors in Brooklyn, Maplewood, Morristown, Concordia. She is survived by four children, Walter (Carol Blinder), Evelyn (Elliott) Marvel, Harriet (Marv) Goodman, Henry (Joan Meltzer), six grandchildren, Todd and Sari, Michael and Karen, Abigail and Emily, infant great-grandson Ryan Alperstein, younger sister Eleanor Marsh (Chicago), older sister Cecile Mitchell and her husband Sydney (New Rochelle and Manhattan). Adele danced ballet and a Dutch dance at age five in Manhattan's Town Hall and was photographed there together with the famous ballerina Anna Pavlova. In recent years she took frequent bus rides from Concordia to Lincoln Center for ballet matinees. Adele and Abe used to ski, golf, vacation in Florida and she was an incredible perpetual optimist and loved all her friends and relatives. The children and grandchildren have created professional careers and lifestyles in various cities. Adele's family legacy is to strive for education, live actively with grace, dignity, loving kindness and tremendous devotion to all. She will be remembered forever.
      