
        LAOR-Eliahu. Beloved husband of Judith. Adored father of Rauiv, Laurent, Julien and Leann. Loving son of Klara. Devoted brother of Eytan and Ilana Silverstein. He was a dedicated physician and friend. Services Friday 10 AM, at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87 Street and Madison Ave. For information call the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 212-769-4400.
        LAOR-Dr. Eliahu. The Department of Urology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University mourns the untimely death of our esteemed and respected colleague. He was a noted urologist in the field of kidney stone disease, beloved by his patients and admired for his intense devotion. He will be remembered for his tireless commitment to teaching. He was an Attending Surgeon affiliated with the New York Presbyterian Hospital and the Albert Einstein Medical Center. Though his life was shorter than expected, he accomplished so much and touched so many. Donations may be made in his memory to the Department of Urology at Columbia to be held pending formation of the ''Dr. Eliahu Laor Fund for Urologic Research and Education.''
        LAOR-Dr. Eliahu. We deeply mourn the tragic loss of our beloved friend Eli, a man of enormous wisdom, infinite compassion and tireless devotion. Words cannot describe the impact you made on our lives. We are eternally blessed that your graced us with your friendship. Your legacy of strength, wisdom and uncompromising character will inspire us always. Our deepest sympathies to Judy and the entire family. Shari and Steven Kaplan
        LAOR-Dr. Eliahu. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Judith and to his children our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President
        LAOR-Eliahu. Dr. Aaron E. Katz and family mourn the untimely passing of a wonderful friend, dedicated family man, and esteemed colleague. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife and children. He will be greatly missed.
        LAOR-Eliahu, M.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our colleague and good friend. Eli, we will always remember you. Ihor and Alexandra Sawczuk
        LAOR-Eliahu. Mitchell and Ronda Benson and Carl and Mary Olsson mourn the passing of a colleage and a friend. Our deepest condolences to his family.
      