
        DOLGIN-Stuart M., MD. Son of Israel, and Diana, brother of Kalmon, Gail and Neil, beloved husband of Ellie (Roberts) and loving father of Rebecca, Ari and Heather. He was a noted gastroenterologist, beloved by his patients for the depth of his caring. Though his life was shorter than expected, he accomplished so much and touched so many. His long, courageous, painful journey has come to an end, but a new one has begun. His memory is truly a blessing for all who knew him. Services were held at the Woodbury Jewish Center on Tuesday, July 3rd. Donations may be made in his memory to the ''Woodbury Jewish Center'' to be held pending formation of the ''Dr. Stuart Mark Dolgin Foundation for Pancreatic Cancer Research.'' Shiva will be observed at Dr. Dolgin's home. Ellie, Rebecca, Ari, Heather, Israel, Diana, Kalmon, Peggy, Brynn, Alan, Josh, Rebecca, Daniel, Gail, Amelia, Neil, Cindy, Carly, Grant, Brett, Chad.
        DOLGIN-Stuart. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend Stu, a man of great wisdom and infinite compassion, of uncompromising principles and boundless love. He graced our lives with his friendship for over 50 years. Humanity has suffered a deep and abiding loss with his passing. Stu, wherever we are and wherever we go, one of the things of which we will always be most proud, is to be included in the ranks of your friends. Harvey and Ellen Sanders Ricky and Susan Etra Kenny and Karen Etra Jay and Jill Bernstein
        DOLGIN-Stuart. There are no words to describe the tragic loss of our bright, compassionate, humble, caring and loving friend. Your heroic courage will always be an inspiration to all of us. You are now at peace, and will always be forever in our hearts. Our deepest sympathies to Ellie and the entire family. Jodi and Bob (Rosey) Rosenthal
        DOLGIN-Dr. Stuart. A warm, caring, multi-talented lifelong friend who demonstrated perfectly how much a close friendship can enrich another's life. His legacy of compassion, strength and fine character will inspire us always. Richard and Susan Greene
        DOLGIN-Stuart M., MD We extend our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to the Dolgin family on their loss. Julia Jacobs & Miller Advertising
      