
        HAIMOVICI-Henry. Died at his home in New York City on July 10, 2001 at 93 years of age. He is survived by his brother Avram Haimovici, his nephew Yaacov Haimovitch and his niece Sara H. Hirsch, all in Israel; and a niece Marta H. Albulescu in Romania; and several grand-nephews and grand-nieces. His wife, Nelicia, predeceased him several years ago. Henry Haimovici was born in rural Romania in 1907 and, after graduating from college, attended and graduated from the Marseille Medical School in France in 1937 and became a French citizen. He was awarded a Rockefeller Fellowship at Harvard Medical School in 1938-1939. Although World War II had already started in Europe, Henry Haimovici returned to France and was drafted into the French army in 1940 as an army surgeon in Montpellier, but by July, 1940, with the war escalating, he thought he should try to return to the United States, which he was able to do with the help of Marshal Petain. It took two years for him to get an exit visa out of France to North Africa and into the U.S. Practicing medicine in the U.S. since 1942, Dr. Haimovici was with Mt. Sinai Hospital from 1944-1954, was Chief of Vascular Surgery at Montefiore Hospital from 1945-1972 and Chief of Surgery Emeritus thereafter. Dr. Haimovici was a member of various medical societies and was considered one of the true pioneers in the field of vascular surgery. He held honorary degrees from medical schools in Ireland, Italy, Argentina, Brazil, Japan, France, Israel and Cuba and lectured at symposia all over the world. He was the founder in 1950 of the International Society of Cardiovascular Surgery and published over 200 articles and books in French and English, including his book The Metabolic Complications of Acute Arterial Occlusions and Related Conditions in 1988 and his treatise, Haimovici's Vascular Surgery, Principles and Technologies, which is currently in its fourth edition. At the request of his family, the funeral and burial will be private.
      