
        BERGREEN-Morris H. The President, Chancellor Emeritus Boards of Governors and Overseers, Faculty Administration and Students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Morris H. Bergreen, generous benefactor and devoted friend of the College-Institute. Mr. Bergreen, a member of the Board of Governors for more than three decades, served as a member of the Executive Committee, Chair of the Library, Museum and Archives Committee and was deeply committed and involved in the life of the College-Institute. He helped guide all HUC-JIR during a period of far-reaching decisions and he offered his wise counsel and his astute perspective with unstinting zeal. We offer our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Adele and family whose loss we profoundly share. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, Pres. Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritus Rabbi Norman J. Cohen, Provost Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors.
        BERGREEN - Morris H. The American Jewish Committee mourns the death of Morris H. Bergreen, an honorary Vice President whose active leadership and support of AJC spans 54 years. Morris was a beloved member of our National Board of Governors and, along with his wife Adele, a member of the National Leadership Council. Through his work as president of the Skirball Foundation he was instrumental in the creation of AJC's Skirball Institute on American Values which seeks to unite all people by promoting the core values and ideals we share as Americans. For all his efforts on behalf of the Jewish Community, and for his decades of committment to improving the human condition, we honored him with our Distinguished Leadership Award. We will sorely miss his goodness and wise counsel. We send our deepest sympathy to Adele, his son Lawrence and the rest of the grieving family. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Exec Director Shulamith Bahat, Assoc Exec Dir
        BERGREEN-Morris. The NYU community mourns the passing of our beloved friend and benefactor, Morris Bergreen. As president of the Skirball Foundation, he had a profound impact on the University. An alumnus of NYU, a trustee and a recipient of its Gallatin Medal, he understood and shared our vision of its future, and was generous in his support of it. His efforts led the Foundation's crucial support of our arts program, our medical programs, and our programs in Jewish studies and Jewish student life, and his wisdom and guidance helped make NYU a better institution. Few deaths could have left as great a sense of loss in our community as his. He shall be grievously missed. L. Jay Oliva, President Martin Lipton, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        BERGREEN-Morris H. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of The Jewish Home and Hospital, mourn the passing of our devoted Trustee of 30 years, Morris Bergreen. One of the great philanthropists of New York City, he was a generous benefactor of The Home, especially through the Skirball Foundation's support in the renovation of the Sarah Neuman Center in Westchester. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his beloved wife Adele, children and grandchildren. He leaves us a great legacy by which he will always be remembered. David A. Jones Chairman of the Board Amy K. Pollinger, Chairman Sarah Neuman Center Sheldon Goldberg President and CEO
        BERGREEN-Morris. For 22 years we worked closely with Morris Bergreen. His vision, values and ideas were indispensible to us and to the Board of Trustees in our efforts to make NYU a great university. He was a friend and a colleague with whom we shared an exciting academic adventure. We admired and loved him. We extend to Adele our deepest sympathy on her tragic loss. Naomi Levine, Senior V.P. NYU George Heyman, Life Trustee NYU
        BERGREEN-Morris H. It is with sadness that the Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Morris H. Bergreen. A true friend of the performing arts, Mr. Bergreen was a kind and generous man who will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Adele, as well as his family, friends and associates. Beverly Sills, Chairman Gordon J. Davis, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        BERGREEN - Morris. The Trustees of the Skirball Foundation mourn the loss of our president and chief architect, Morris Bergreen. His vision and compassion created a monument to philanthropy and an instrument for communal advancement in diverse fields. We shall miss him beyond measure. To his wife, Adele, and his family, we extend our deepest sympathies at their grievous loss. The Trustees of the Skirball Foundation
        BERGREEN-Morris. The Skirball Department of Hebrew and Judaic Studies at NYU grieves the loss of Morris Bergreen. His wise leadership and support was crucial in enabling this department to stand at the forefront of teaching and research in its field. He will be deeply missed by us all. Lawrence H. Schiffman, Chair
        BERGREEN-Morris H. We mourn the loss of our friend and advisor of forty years. Our heartfelt condolences to Adele, Laurence and the Bergreen family. The Weiler and Arnow Families
      