
        SALTZ-Anita Belfer. The Hillel family mourns the passing of our dear friend, Anita Belfer Saltz. Anita was a pioneer in opening the Jewish community to young adults through Hillel's Belfer Initiative, a program that continues to touch the lives of young Jews across North America. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Saltz and Belfer families. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Hillel: The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life Edgar M. Bronfman, Chairman International Board of Governors Lynn Schusterman, Co-Chair Michael Steinhardt, Co-Chair Charles Newman, Chairman, Board of Directors Richard M. Joel, President and International Director
        SALTZ-Anita. The Rockefeller University community mourns the loss of Anita Saltz, a visionary philanthropist whose generosity helped to establish an interdisciplinary study in diabetes at the University. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband, Jack; their children; our Council members Selma and Lawrence Ruben; and Robert and Renee Belfer. Arnold J. Levine, President Richard B. Fisher, Chairman, Board of Trustees David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee, Board of Trustees Torsten N. Wiesel, President Emeritus
        SALTZ-Anita. It is with great sadness that the Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center mourn the passing of Anita Saltz. Our thoughts and prayers are with her brother Robert Belfer and his wife Renee, a cherished member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the Belfer and Saltz family and friends. Beverly Sills, Chairman Gordon J. Davis, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts Inc.
        SALTZ-Anita. The American Israel Public Affairs Committee mourns the passing of our dear friend and supporter of Israel Anita Saltz. We extend heartfelt condolences to the Saltz and Belfer family and friends.
        SALTZ-Anita. The members and staff of the Falls Country Club wish to express their sincere condolences to Jack Saltz and family on the passing of Anita Saltz. Board of Governors Ken Mahler, President
      