
        RUBINSTEIN-Benjamin. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Dr. Benjamin Rubinstein, a cherished friend of the Jewish community who expressed his commitment to humanitarian causes through his dedicated service on behalf of our beneficiary agencies. Dr. Rubinstein's sons embrace their father's devotion to our community through their extraordinary support of, and leadership in, UJA-Federation. His son, Laurence, has served on many of our boards and is currently the president of Surprise Lake Camp, a beneficiary of UJA-Federation. His son Rabbi Peter Rubinstein, currently serves on our Board of Directors. We extend our deepest sympathies to Dr. Rubinstein's wife, Irene; to his sons Laurence, Peter, and John; to his eight grandchildren; to his great-grandson; and to his entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP and CEO
        RUBINSTEIN-Benjamin, Dr. The Officers, Board, staff and members of The Educational Alliance express our heartfelt condolences to the family and friends of Dr. Benjamin Rubinstein, a beloved alumnus and former Board member of The Alliance. From 1962-1975, Dr. Rubinstein served as Trustee of The Educational Alliance, providing sage counsel and the dedication borne of his own experiences at The Alliance, and his desire to provide future generations with the same. We will all miss him, but his legacy will live on. Robin Bernstein Executive Director Richard A. Cantor President
        RUBINSTEIN-Dr. Benjamin. The leaders and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Dr. Benjamin Rubinstein, loving father of our esteemed colleague and Trustee, Rabbi Peter Rubinstein. We extend our deepest sympathies to the members of his family. Seymour R. Askin Jr. Chairman of the Board Joseph S. Kaplan, President Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., EVP, CEO
        RUBINSTEIN-Dr. Benjamin. The Alumni Association of Columbia College expresses its deepest sympathy to Board member Laurence Rubinstein and his family on the passing of his father, Dr. Benjamin Rubinstein.
      