
        SCHRADER-Abraham. On July 12, 2001 at age 100. Beloved husband of the late Rose. Devoted father of Mort and his wife Miquette & Steve and his wife Lucy. Grandfather of Jacob, David and Eliza. Services today, 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        SCHRADER - Abe. Abe, you touched all members of our family as a scholar, great wit, ability to discuss any topic and lit up the room with your personality and stories. We will all miss you. The Genatt Family.
        SCHRADER-Abraham. It is with great sadness that the entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with Continuum Health Partners in acknowledging the passing of our dear friend Abe Schrader, generous benefactor and dedicated Trustee of Beth Israel for more than 30 years. Emigrating from Poland to the United States in 1923, Mr. Schrader was a successful clothing manufacturer and an icon in the fashion industry, as well as a confidant and advisor to many notable elected officials. He was a steadfast friend to Beth Israel, lending his support to the Medical Center's ongoing growth and development. His philanthropic contributions forever will be remembered by the naming in his honor of the lobby and the 10th floor of the Linsky Pavilion, the Admitting Department and the EEG suite. A learned Talmudic scholar, Mr. Schrader lived his life based on a commitment to serving others. We will miss greatly his wit, his wisdom and his generosity. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his sons, Morton and Steven, his family and all who loved him. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Boards of Trustees Beth Israel and Continuum Peter A. Kelly, President and CEO, Continuum Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President and CEO, Beth Israel Sidney K. Stein, M.D., President, Medical Board, Beth Israel
        SCHRADER - Abraham. The Board and Staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum are deeply saddened by the death of Abraham Schrader, beloved father of our longtime supporter and Board Member Morton Schrader. We offer our heartfelt condolences to Miquette and Mort and to the entire family. Barbara Lane President, AFIM James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir., IM Carolyn Cohen Exec. Dir., AFIM
        SCHRADER-Abe. The trustees, administration, faculty, and staff of the Fashion Institute of Technology mourn the loss of Trustee Emeritus, Abe Schrader. A legend in the fashion industry, he made FIT the beneficiary of his great widsom, dedication, and energy as a board member from 1976 until 1996. His generosity and service continue to improve the lives of FIT students and for this he will always be remembered. Edwin A. Goodman, Chairman of the Board Dr. Joyce F. Brown, President
        SCHRADER-Abe. We salute the life of Abe Schrader, a tower of a man whose kindness, intellect, and history of experiences will be missed by all. All who came in contact benefited from his humor, his support and loyalty, his friendship, his guidance, and his youthful approach to life. Mort, Miquette and David, our thoughts are with you. The Macklowe Family
        SCHRADER-Abraham. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun mourns the passing of the revered father of our devoted member Morton Schrader, and the beloved fatherin-law of Miquette Schrader. We extend our condolences to the entire bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Chaim Edelstein, President
        SCHRADER-Abe. A legend in your own time; the end of an era. We will miss your wit, wisdom, humor, friendship and generosity. Go in peace, dear friend. Our heartfelt condolences and love to Mort, Miquette and David, and Steve and family. Laura and John
        SCHRADER-Abe. Our condolences to Mort, Miquette, David and the Schrader family. Abe was a great man who inspired all of us by having such a wonderful life. John and Betsy Brod
        SCHRADER-Abe. A longtime friend, mentor and associate. We learned from him, we loved him, and we deeply mourn his passing. The Officers & all the Employees Bishop, Rosen & Company, Inc.
        SCHRADER-Abe. We will miss you. Your warmth, your charm, your intelligence. Rest in peace, good friend. Harvey and Pauline
        SCHRADER-Abe. An impossible act to follow who will be greatly missed. Jimmy Heller
      