
        FISCHMAN-Bernard D. Age 86. On July 11, 2001. Adored husband of Hilda. Devoted & loving father of Judith (Harmer) and Robert. Cherished grandfather of Jesse, Joanna and Eliza. Brother of the late Ruth Rackman and Mervyn Fischman. Funeral service Friday, July 13th, 11 AM at The Riverside Chapel, 76th Street & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Lawyers' Committee for Human Rights, 333 7th Ave, 13th Floor, New York, New York 10001-5004.
        FISCHMAN-Bernard D. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun mourns the passing of our esteemed member, the beloved husband of our devoted member Hilda Fischman. We extend our condolences to the entire bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Chaim Edelstein, President
        FISCHMAN-Bernard D. The Child Development Center of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services is deeply saddened by the passing of Bernard Fischman, former Divisional Committee member of the Child Development Center and beloved husband of longtime CDC clinician, Hilda Fischman. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Hilda, his children, Bob and Judy, son-inlaw, Harmon, and grandchildren. Renee J. Ward, Chair, CDC Divisional Committee Alice Kross Frankel, M.D., Director Emerita, CDC Marian Davidson-Amodeo, C.S.W., Director, CDC
        FISCHMAN - Bernard D. We mourn the passing of our friend and counselor, Bernie Fischman. For many years, all of us, and our departed founder Stanley Stahl, benefitted from his friendship and wise judgement in good times and in difficult times. His wide-ranging scholarship and dedication to the right and to the true were unsurpassed. We will miss him greatly. Our sympathies to his loving family. Richard F. Czaja, Gregg S. Wolpert, Marianne Dziuba, David B. Manowitz Stahl Real Estate Co.
        FISCHMAN-Bernard D. A kind and strong man of uncommon integrity; his life was a Blessing. His wise counsel and personal encouragement aided Media Judaica for three decades. His legacy of love of family and of ethical concern for countless others will surely endure. Rabbi Jonathan D. Levine, and The Directors of Media Judaica
        FISCHMAN-Bernard. The Directors, Officers and staff of the Apple Bank for Savings mourn the passing of Bernard Fischman, long-term Director of the Bank, a man of great wisdom and kindness, who achieved distinction in his profession and was a friend to us all. We extend our profound condolences to his family.
        FISCHMAN-Bernard. We shall miss our beloved Bernie, who has been such a friend and inspiration to us all. Our deepest condolences to his family. Donald Jonas, Chairman of the Board, and all Board of Directors of Lechters, Inc.
        FISCHMAN-Bernard D. Few have loved mercy, pursued justice, and walked humbly with God, as did he with his beloved wife Hilda. The Rackman Family
      