
        TRUBIN-John. On July 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Edna (Glassman) and loving father of Priscilla and Andrew Trubin, their devoted spouses Richard Lewis & Virginie de Haugoubart; four grandchildren: Beatrice and Judd Lewis and Paul and Edouard Trubin. Beneficiary of kind and caring friends. Funeral services Friday 1:30PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street. Interment to follow at Knollwood Park Cemetery. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the charity of your choice.
        TRUBIN-John. The trustees and staff of the NYC Police Foundation note with sorrow the passing of our longtime trustee, John. We express our sincere condolences and sympathy to his wife Edna, and the members of his family. Mr. Trubin worked tirelessly to improve public safety in our city. Throughout the years, his contributions to the Foundation and uncommmon generosity distinguished him as an extraordinary person. We will miss his wise counsel, enthusiasm and remarkable service. We are deeply grieved by his death, and feel fortunate to have known him. George D. Benjamin, Chairman Pamela D. Delaney, President
        TRUBIN-John. The Board and staff of the Citizens Committee for New York City are deeply saddened by the loss of our beloved founding spirit, John Trubin. When the city faced bankruptcy in 1975, John had the vision to rally New Yorkers in the cause of self-help, a Herculean effort that has been inspiring New York's neighborhoods ever since. We will miss his gentle wisdom, his sharp wit, his dedication to the city he loved, and our hearts go out to his beloved Edna and their family. Osborn Elliott, Chairman Michael E. Clark, President Citizens Committee for New York City
        TRUBIN-John. The Justices of The New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department, mark with sorrow the passing of a member of the Character and Fitness Committee. He served the Court with distinction. His dedication and wisdom will serve as his legacy. Joseph P. Sullivan Presiding Justice
      