
        SALTZ-Anita. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem deeply mourn the passing of Anita Saltz. She, along with her brother AFHU Council of Trustees Member and Member of The Hebrew University Board of Governors, Robert Belfer and her sister Selma Ruben, all of whom are Hebrew University Benefactors, established the ''From the Laboratory to the Patient-Cancer Research Program'' through the Arthur and Rochelle Belfer Foundation, to help in the battle against cancer. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Jack; children Leonard, Susan, Ronald, and Gary; brother and sister-in-law Robert and Renee Belfer; sister and brother-in-law Selma and Lawrence Ruben; and the rest of the Saltz and Belfer families. American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President
        SALTZ-Anita Belfer. We deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend Anita. Always a pleasure to be with, your wisdom, wit and indomitable spirit enriched our lives and the lives of so many more. Especially we will cherish the memories of the joyous times we spent together on our many trips throughout the years. We love you and will miss you. To our dear friend Jack, to Lenny and Gail, Susan, Ronald and Michelle, the grandchildren and to the Ruben and Belfer Families we extend our deepest and heartfelt condolences and share in your sorrow. Mary Ellen and Morley Kaye and Family
        SALTZ-Anita Belfer. The Council & Staff of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum join the Belfer family in mourning the loss of Anita Belfer Saltz. A Director of the Belfer Foundation, her vision and insight helped create the Arthur and Rochelle Belfer Conference for Educators, an important program promoting national holocaust education. She will be missed. Rabbi Irving Greenberg, Chair Ruth B. Mandel, Vice Chair Sara J. Bloomfield, Director United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, 100 Raoul Wallenberg Place, SW, Washington, DC 20024.
        SALTZ-Anita. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation mourns the passing of Anita Saltz, friend and benefactor. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family, in particular her sister, Selma Ruben, and her niece and Foundation Advisory Board member, Rochelle Kivell. Through her advocacy and commitment, she set a courageous example. Evelyn H. Lauder, Chairman and Founder Myra J. Biblowit, President Jeanette Wagner, Vice President Deborah Krulewitch, Secretary Larry Norton, MD, Chair Medical Advisory Board
        SALTZ-Anita. It is with great sadness that the Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center mourn the passing of Anita Saltz. Our thoughts and prayers are with her brother Robert Belfer and his wife Renee, a cherished member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the Belfer and Saltz family and friends. Beverly Sills, Chairman Gordon J. Davis, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts Inc.
      