
        McCAFFREY-James J., 79. Of Blue Hill, ME, a retired advertising agency executive, former weekly newspaper publisher and avid fisherman-not necessarily in that order-died Saturday, July 21, at the Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor of complications from a stroke. He was stricken a month earlier while on a fishing trip to Canada. Jim was born in New York City on May 15, 1922, the son of John and Marie McCaffrey of Scarsdale, N.Y. He was educated at Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., & was enrolled at Princeton University when he as stricken with polio at the age of 19. Despite surviving with only limited mobility in his left leg and none at all in his right, McCaffrey nevertheless completed his education at Princeton, graduating with honors in 1944, and was headed for law school at Harvard University when he took a summer job in the mailroom of Young and Rubicam, then the second largest advertising agency in the world. He was bitten by the advertising bug and told Harvard ''the law will have to do without me.'' In 1945, Jim met a young woman named Virginia (''Geegee'') Given on the beach of Fire Island and the two were marrid the following year. While she continued working as an editor for ''Glamour Magazine'' and ''House Garden Magazine'', he quickly worked his way up the advertising ladder to become an account executive, first at Young and Rubicam and then at Ogilvy and Mather. In 1962, he joined forces with David B. McCall to purchase an agency called C.J. LaRoche and Co. Thus was born the firm of McCaffrey and McCall, Inc. The company became one of New York's preeminent advertising agencies over the next two decades. Over his career, Jim worked with such clients as Rolls Royce, J.C. Penney, Bacardi Rum, Helena Rubenstein, Pepperidge Farm, Hathaway Shirt, Norelco and ABC Television. Jim served as the agency's chairman of the board for the next 10 years, also ascending to the presidency of the 4A's (American Association of Advertising Agencies). He retired in 1973 at the age of 50 to move with Geegee to a Castine, ME farm overlooking the Bagaduce River. Once in Castine, Jim quickly became involved in the community. He was an active member of Our Lady of Holy Hope Catholic Church and a founder of the volunteer Bagaduce Ambulance Corps, which continues to serve Castine and surrounding towns today. Jim also played a major role in Castine's ''revolt'' against a state uniform property tax, helping lead a successful statewide effort to repeal the unpopular tax. In 1976, he made an aggressive bid to represent Hancock County in the Main Senate. Opting to run as an independent, without party affiliation or support, Jim nevertheless garnered more than 4,000 votes in a four-way race that was won by the Republican incumbent. In 1980, he embarked on a career as a newspaper publisher, teaming with editor Hugh Bowden to launch the weekly Castine Patriot, serving the towns of Castine, Orland, Penobscot and Brooksville. Jim's strong and thoughtful viewpoints appeared each week in well-crafted editorials, each carefully written in longhand, that became the talk of the community. Though the newspaper has seen several owners since Jim sold it in 1982, it continues to flourish today. Jim had a keen mind and fiery temper and did not suffer fools gladly. But he was also sensitive, articulate and could be loyal almost to a fault. Partner David McCall said of him on his retirement, ''Jim has never hurt a fellow human being in his life. Jim not only treats everyone equally, he literally can't see any difference between the president of General Motors and the window washer-unless one of them is an ass.'' The McCaffrey's sold their Castine farm in 1997 and became residents of Parker Ridge, a retirement community in Blue Hill, ME. For more than 50 years, Jim was an avid fisherman in Maine, Canada and the Bahamas. His fishing partner and 55-year partner in life was always his wife. Regarding his stroke and ultimate death, Geegee commented to friends about their most recent trip to Canada: ''Jim caught a 10pound salmon before he had other things to do.'' And no one knows his no-holds-barred dedication to tomorrow better than she. In addition to his wife, Jim is survived by a daughter, Anne (''Nancy'') McCaffrey Rathmell of Belfast; and three granddaughters, Meghan Rathmell of Hollis, Erin Rathmell of West Tisbury, Mass., and Katharine Rathmell of Exeter, N.H. A funeral mass will be held Friday, July 27, at 10 A.M. at Our Lady of Holy Hope Catholic Church in Castine. Following interment in the Castine Cemetery, a celebration of Jim's life will be held in the dining room at Parker Ridge from noon to 4 P.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in his memory to the Post Polio Support Group of Maine, 674 HallowellLitchfield Rd, West Gardiner, ME 04345, or to Alzheimer's Disease Research, 15825 Shady Grove Rd, Suite 140, Rockville, MD 20850.
      