
        GRAHAM-Katharine. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Rockefeller University are saddened by the loss of our esteemed friend, Katharine Graham, a former member of The Rockefeller University Council. Her loyal friendship to the University will be missed. We greatly admire her tremendous professional accomplishments as one of this nation's legendary leaders in journalism. Her devotion to the pursuit of truth helped to transform not only a newspaper but the business of news in the United States, and her personal courage profoundly affected the lives of women both in the U.S. and abroad. Her keen intelligence and astute insight into the world of government and politics have inspired generations of journalists. The Rockefeller University community will treasure the memory of her caring and gracious nature, and the generous way in which she embraced those around her. With heartfelt sympathy, we extend our deepest condolences to her family. Arnold J. Levine, President Richard B. Fisher, Chairman David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman, The Rockefeller University Council, and Chairman Emeritus
        GRAHAM - Katharine. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with deep sorrow the passing of Kay Graham. She was a close friend of the Museum, most recently having been honored as a recipient of the David Rockefeller Award for enlightened generosity and advocacy of cultural and civic endeavors. Kay and her sister Ruth Epstein made important contributions to the Museum's collections including the Picabia paintings generously given after their serendipitous discovery in a forgotten corner of a family home. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Kay's children and to her entire family. Her grace, wisdom, and spirit will be forever remembered. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        GRAHAM-Katharine. New York Theatre Workshop mourns the loss of Katharine Graham, mother of our Founding Trustee, Stephen Graham. She was an inspiration to us all. Our hearts and thoughts are with Stephen and the entire Graham family. The Artists, Staff and Board of Trustees of NYTW
      