
        CARROLL - ABBING - Monsignor John Patrick. The directors and staff of Boys' Towns of Italy, Inc. mourn the passing of our beloved founder, Monsignor John Patrick Carroll-Abbing. He was ordained a priest in Rome in 1935 and named a Monsignor shortly thereafter. He served in the Papal Household under Pope Pius XI and Pope Pius the XII until the outbreak of World War II. Pope Pius XII gave Monsignor permission to leave the Household and to assist the refugee population of Italy. He began by starting ''Shoeshine Hotels'' for the young street population of Italy and thereafter devoted his life to caring for children whose lives have been shattered by war, poverty, and natural disaster. His mission of unconditional love and acceptance have stood for decades as a shining beacon offering a ''second chance in life'' to lost and abandoned boys and girls of many nationalities. Monsignor Carroll-Abbing was the founder and leader of the residential facilities Boys' Towns of Rome and Girls' Towns of Rome, as well as Boys Towns of Italy, Inc., the oldest American charity working abroad, and was an internationally respected advocate for child welfare. We miss him dearly and will always strive to keep his spirit and mission alive. Brother A.E. D'Adamo, CFC, Executive Vice President Mauro C. Romita, Secretary/Treasurer
        CARROLL-ABBING-Msgr John Patrick. Our world is poorer today for we have lost a giant of a man, Msgr. John Patrick Carroll-Abbing, the beloved founder of Boys' Towns of Italy. At heart, a poet a priest by calling, this noble Laureate was a true visionary, activist and compassionate friend who brought hope and dignity to the many, many lives he touched. We, in the D'Urso family, were blessed by his friendship for over thirty years and we considered this gentle man to be one of God's special treasures on earth. He was always there for us, in happy times and sad, and we love him dearly as though he is one of our own family. With heavy hearts we send our deepest sympathy to those who will never forget him, that special family of boys and girls in Rome whom he sheltered, educated and loved. Msgr used to say, ''Ever tear that is wiped from the eye of a child is a star that is lit in the sky''. There must be a new star lighting our heavens tonight, for I am sure that our beloved friend is at peace in the embrace of our Lord, who will say to him, ''Well done, my good and faithful servant''. With great admiration, heartfelt sympathy and dearest love and prayers, Florence D'Urso and family.
        CARROLL-ABBING-Msgr. John Patrick. Died July 9, 2001. Founder of Boys' Towns of Italy, Inc., and other relief organizations in Italy. Funeral 4 PM, Wednesday, July 11th, at Boys' Town, Rome. Memorial contributions to the Msgr. J.P. Carroll-Abbing Scholarship Fund, c/o Boys' Towns of Italy, Inc. 250 East 63 St, NY, NY 10021.
      