
        BERGREEN-Morris H. Beloved husband of Adele, adored father of Laurence and the late John, cherished father-in-law of Betsy and Natasha, loving grandfather of Nicholas and Sara. Remarkable, brilliant, and unforgettable, a truly generous spirit. Services on Thursday, July 12, 2001 at 11 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
        BERGREEN-Morris H. The Board of Trustees, Staff, Docents and Volunteers of the Skirball Cultural Center in Los Angeles express their profound sorrow at the passing of Morris H. Bergreen, President of the Skirball Foundation and a founding member of the Skirball Cultural Center Board of Trustees. Morris Bergreen was a prime founder and builder of the Skirball Cultural Center. His vision inspired us to move forward with plans for this institution so it could be a place of welcome and inspiration for people from all over the world. The generosity of the Skirball Foundation under Morris Bergreen's leadership has been immeasurable. We extend our thoughts and love to Adele, his dear wife of over fifty years, and to his daughter-in-law Natasha, his son Larry and daughter-in-law Betsy, and his grandchildren Sara and Nicholas. We were truly blessed by Morris Bergreen's friendship and wisdom for many years. His legacy will abide with us for all time. Dearest of Friends, Audrey and Charles Kenis Uri D. Herscher, President/CEO, Skirball Cultural Center Howard I. Friedman, Chairman, Skirball Cultural Center Board of Trustees
        BERGREEN-Morris H. The Faculty & Staff of New York University Medical Center mourn the passing of Morris H. Bergreen, a cherished friend, life trustee and generous benefactor, and a man of great intellect and enormous decency. A distinguished attorney & a leader in the broadcasting industry, Mr. Bergreen also had a passion for philanthropy, especially in his support for medical research. Under Mr. Bergreen's leadership, the Skirball Foundation provided generous philanthropic support to the NYU School of Medicine's Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine that has served to fund important research and a professorship in genetics. Mr. Bergreen was a man who touched the lives of many people, and he will be deeply missed by all who knew him. We send our deepest condolences to his wife, Adele, family and loved ones. Kenneth G. Langone, Chairman NYU School of Medicine Foundation Board of Trustees and NYU Hospitals Center Board of Trustees Robert M. Glickman, M.D., Dean NYU School of Medicine Theresa A. Bischoff, President NYU Hospitals Center
        BERGREEN-Morris H. The President, Chancellor Emeritus Boards of Governors and Overseers, Faculty Administration and Students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Morris H. Bergreen, generous benefactor and devoted friend of the College-Institute. Mr. Bergreen, a member of the Board of Governors for more than three decades, served as a member of the Executive Committee, Chair of the Library, Museum and Archives Committee and was deeply committed and involved in the life of the College-Institute. He helped guide all HUC-JIR during a period of far-reaching decisions and he offered his wise counsel and his astute perspective with unstinting zeal. We offer our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Adele and family whose loss we profoundly share. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, Pres. Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritus Rabbi Norman J. Cohen, Provost Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors.
        BERGREEN-Morris. The New York University community mourns the passing of our beloved friend and benefactor, Morris Bergreen. As president of the Skirball Foundation, he had a profound impact upon the University. An alumnus of NYU, a trustee, and a recipient of its Gallatin Medal, he understood and shared our vision of its future, and was generous in his support of it. His efforts led to the Foundation's crucial support of our arts program, our medical programs and our programs in Jewish studies and life, and his wisdom and guidance helped make NYU a better institution. Few deaths could have left as great a sense of loss in our community as his. He shall be grievously missed. L. Jay Oliva, President Martin Lipton, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        BERGREEN-Morris. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Morris Bergreen, a cherished friend, who earned tremendous admiration and respect for his deep devotion to Jewish and humanitarian causes. Individually and through the Skirball Foundation, Morris and his beloved wife, Adele, touched the lives of millions of people through their unwavering commitment to UJA-Federation and its beneficiary agencies. He will be fondly remembered as a true leader of our community. We extend our deepest sympathies to Adele; to Morris' son, Laurence and his wife, Betsy; to his grandchildren; and to his entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        BERGREEN-Morris H. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York notes with profound sorrow the death of our devoted & distinguished member Morris H. Bergreen. His life was an extraordinary blessing and because of him the world has been enriched and ennobled. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will endure as a legacy to his life. May all all who revered and loved him be comforted. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Sr Rabbi Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        BERGREEN-Morris H. The editors and staff of ''Commentary'' mourn the death of Morris H. Bergreen, a wise counselor, a true and beloved friend, and a faithful, generous, and wonderfully gracious supporter. Together with the members of the Commentary Publication Committee, on which Morris long served, most recently as Chairman, we express our heartfelt condolences and our profound sense of loss to Adele and the Bergreen family. Neal Kozodoy, Editor
        BERGREEN-Morris H. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Morris H. Bergreen. We extend our deepest sumpathy to his wife, Adele and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard J. Bronstein, Secretary
        BERGREEN-Morris. A man who graced us with his keen intellect, unsurpassable charm, endless generosity and his most inspirational marriage. Mere words cannot express how dearly we will miss him. Our hearts go out to Adele and our deepest sympathies to the entire Bergreen family. Love, Bruce and Sarah Charash.
        BERGREEN-Morris H. We mourn the loss of our friend and advisor of forty years. Our heartfelt condolences to Adele, Laurence and the Bergreen family. The Weiler and Arnow Families
      