
        LEVINE-Jonathan David. Died on Thursday, July 26, 2001 at the age of 23. He was born on November 25, 1977 in NYC to Linda Wagner and Charles Levine. At the age of nine, Jonathan moved to Milford, Pennsylvania and resided in Conashaugh Lakes with his mother. After graduating from Delaware Valley High School in 1995, he moved to Brooklyn, NY and began to seriously pursue his dream of becoming a poet and an artist. Since the age of 18, he has had his poems accepted and/or published over 200 times in literary magazines and journals in the United States, England and Canada. Some publications in which his poetry has appeared include: Along The Path, Blind Man's Rainbow, Bound, Coalition, Converge Magazine, Creative Juices, Critique, Dark Corridors, Dark Heart, The Echo, Emotions, Excess Compassion, Feelings, Goddess Of The Bay, Gotta Write Network, The Iconoclast, In the Arts, INK Literary Review, Leapings, Lucid Moon, Maelstrom, New Authors, Journal, Office Number One, Paper Bugs Magazine, Peer Amid, Perimeter, Penny Dreadful, Pillow Dreams, Pink Cadillac, Poetic Hours, Poetry Now, Poet's Paper, The Poet's Page, Portals, The Quarterly, Red Booth Review, Requiem, riverrun, The Sunday Suitor Poetry Review, Touchstone, Transcendent Visions, Typo Magazine, Ugly Duckling, The Ultimate Unknown, Writer's Exchange, and The Yale Review. Jonathan had a ''Special Corner'' written about him showcasing his poetry, art, and fiction in Requiem. He was also the featured new artist in an issue of Leapings and interviewed about his writing in an issue of Gotta Write Network. His poems appeared on the first page in an issue of Peer Amid, Pink Cadillac, Creative Juices, and Writer's Exchange as well as in the book 2000: Here's To Humanity by The People's Press. Besides having his poetry published, Jonathan's black and white artwork was included over 40 times in some of the previously mentioned publications as well as in The Higginsville Reader. He designed the front and back cover of the 2000 edition of riverrun. During the past year, Jonathan began drawing in color and produced several outstanding pieces. Jonathan has also had articles, short stories, and prose pieces published in some of the previously mentioned publications as well as in Penny-A-Liner. Some of his letters to the editor appeared in the Brooklyn Skyline. Peer Amid Literary Magazine is producing a compact disk compilation of spoken-word poetry that will include two of Jonathan's poems. One of Jonathan's short stories was ''highly commended'' with The Bertha And Philip Goodman Short Story Award by Brooklyn College's English Department.
      