
        POTTER-C. Nicholas. Of Mill Neck, NY died peacefully at home on July 10th after a courageous battle with cancer. He was 62 years old. Loving and devoted husband of Clare; proud father of Cary Nicholas Jr. & his wife Alison, Christopher Kingsland & Jennifer; grandfather of Macy Lockheart, Nina Webb and Nicholas Alonzo; son of Julia M. Thompson; and brother of Charles, Dickie and Frances Thieriot. Until his retirement in 1997, Mr. Potter was a Senior Executive at J.P. Morgan & Co. A graduate of Yale University, he joined Morgan in 1965 after destroyer service in the U.S. Navy. Over the course of his 32-year career, he held a variety of senior positions with Morgan, all in the investment management area. In 1974 he started the firm's international investment management business in London putting Morgan at the forefront of one of the world's most rapidly growing financial services businesses. In 1984, he was appointed President and Chief Executive of J.P. Morgan Investment Management Inc. with overall responsibility for investment management. Under his leadership, J.P. Morgan became one of the largest and most successful global investment managers in the world. Mr. Potter was a director of Phoenix House, a trustee of The John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and a trustee of The Hospital for Special Surgery. From 1981 to 1997, when it merged with American Reinsurance Company, he was a director, Chairman of the Finance Committee and member of the Executive Committee of Munich American Reinsurance Company. From 1985 to 1996, he served as a trustee of St. Mark's School, Southborough, Massachusetts. Services will be held on Monday, July 16, at St. John's of Lattingtown Church in Locust Valley, L.I. at 11:30AM. Memorial contributions may be made to Phoenix House Development Fund, 164 W 74th St, NY, NY 10023.
        POTTER-C. Nicholas. His fellow directors join the staff and residents of Phoenix House in mourning the loss of our dear and wise friend, C. Nicholas Potter. The former chairman of J.P. Morgan Investment Management, he brought to our board extraordinary insight and eagerly sought ways to advance our work through research and training. As our organization grew, he helped us to prepare men and women who, as he put it ''we could send off into a different environment and have absolute confidence that they would do the right thing.'' He gave his generous gifts modestly, cared passionately about our work, and had deep concern for the people we serve. Edward D. Miller, Chairman Mitchell S. Rosenthal, M.D., President Phoenix House Foundation
        POTTER-C. Nicholas. The Board of Stewards express their deep sorrow over the passing of C. Nicholas Potter, their esteemed colleague, Steward and Vice President. We shall miss him greatly and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Clare and their children and grandchildren. Signed, Board of Stewards Meadow Brook Club
      