
        SALTZ-Anita. We are profoundly grieved by the passing of a devoted friend and Benefactor, whose dedication to the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and compassion for others is both a legacy and an inspiration. With her beloved husband, Jack, she established a professorial chair in diabetes and a diabetes research center at our College of Medicine. In recognition of her deep commitment to research and education at our medical school, she was awarded an honorary degree from Yeshiva University in 1992. Her dedication carried forward a family tradition first established by her late father, Arthur Belfer; carried on by her brother, Robert A. Belfer, chairperson of our Board of Overseers; and the other members of the Belfer family who have played such a vital role in the life of our institution. To Jack; to their children Leonard, Susan, Ronald and Gary; to her brother and sister-in-law, Robert A. and Renee Belfer; to her sister and brother-in-law, Selma and Lawrence Ruben, members of our Society of Founders; and to all the members of the Saltz and Belfer families, we offer our deepest and most heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Robert M. Beren, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Emeritus Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        SALTZ-Anita. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Anita Saltz, a cherished friend who expressed a deep devotion to the Jewish community. As a member of an extraordinary philanthropic family that expressed unwavering support for UJA-Federation and our network of agencies, she earned admiration and respect for her commitment to humanitarian causes. We extend our deepest sympathies to Anita's beloved husband, Jack; to her children, Leonard, Susan, Ronald, and Gary; to her brother, Robert Belfer and his wife, Renee: to Anita's sister, Selma Ruben and her husband, Lawrence; to her five grandchildren; and to her entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        SALTZ-Anita. The Board of Trustees of The Central Park Conservancy mourns the loss of Anita Saltz-a friend and generous benefactor. Anita, her brother, Robert Belfer and sister, Selma Ruben, funded the restoration of Central Park's West 84th Street Playground and an endowment for a zone gardener in loving memory of their parents, Arthur and Rochelle Belfer. Today, this nautically inspired playground provides thousands of toddlers with hours of enjoyment and reflects the joy and spirit with which Anita lived her life. We celebrate her life and are grateful for the legacy she left New York City children. We express our heartfelt condolences to her family. The Board of Trustees Central Park Conservancy A. J. C. Smith, Chairman Regina S. Peruggi, President
        SALTZ-Anita. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of our dear friend Anita Saltz, adored wife of Jack Saltz, loving mother of Leonard, Susan, Gary and Ron and beloved mother-in-law of Gail, our esteemed Board member. Our hearts and prayers are also with Anita's siblings, Selma and Lawrence Ruben, Renee and Robert Belfer, and her most cherished grandchildren. We are eternally grateful to Anita for her contribution and, in particular, to the teens we serve. It is because of Anita and her family that so many teenagers have found a welcoming, safe and enriching place on 92nd Street. As her life was a blessing, so may her memory be as well. Matthew Bronfman, President Philip Milstein, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        SALTZ-Anita. The Officers, Members and Staff of the New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International record with deep sorrow the passing of our friend, Anita Saltz, a very special person who possessed sparkle, self confidence, intelligence and compassion. Anita was a generous supporter of diabetes research and, for many years, served on the New York Chapter Board of Directors and Board of Chancellors, on the JDRFI Board of Directors and Board of Chancellors. She waged a passionate battle to rid the world of diabetes. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband Jack, loving children and the entire family. She will surely be missed. Lawrence B. Sorrel, President New York Chapter
        SALTZ-Anita. The American Jewish Committee deeply mourns the death of Anita Saltz, a cherished and longtime friend and generous benefactor. In memory of her parents, along with her brother Robert Belfer and her sister Selma Ruben, Anita established the Arthur and Rochelle Belfer Center for American Pluralism, the agency's primary address for its ground breaking work in intergroup relations. She was also a supporter of AJC's Women's Campaign and, with her husband Jack, a member of the National Leadership Council. We send our most heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Exec. Director
        SALTZ-Anita. The members of the Diabetes Research Center of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University record with profound sorrow the passing of Anita Saltz whose support of diabetes research at Einstein was invaluable to the growth and development of our Center. We express our deepest sympathy to her husband Jack, her children, and to her entire family. Norman Fleischer, M.D., Director Luciano Rossetti, M.D., Vice-Director Charles Rubin, Ph.D., Co-Director and Michael Brownlee, M.D., Co-Director and Anita and Jack Saltz Professor of Diabetes Research
        SALTZ-Anita. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to esteemed philanthropist and Overseer Robert A. Belfer and his family on the death of his sister, Anita Saltz. The extraordinary generosity of the Saltz, Ruben, and Belfer families has long contributed to the advancement of medical education, patient care, and research at Weill Medical College of Cornell University. Our thoughts are with Mr. Belfer and his family. Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Antonio M. Gotto, Jr., M.D., The Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean, Weill Medical College of Cornell University
        SALTZ-Anita. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Anita Saltz, an officer of The Arthur and Rochelle Belfer Foundation, devoted wife, mother and grandmother and a great believer in and supporter of the State of Israel and the Weizmann Institute of Science. We extend sincere condolences to the entire family. Robert H. Asher, Chairman, American Committee Albert Willner, M.D., President Martin Kraar, Exec. V.P. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Haim Harari, President
        SALTZ-Anita. We mourn the loss of Anita Saltz, Board of Chancellors member and past International Board member of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation. She was a warm and loving parent and spouse, and an ardent and generous supporter of diabetes research. We will miss her caring and concern, her strong committment and thoughtful appraisals and we extend our deepest sympathy to her family. The Board, Volunteers and Staff Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
        SALTZ-Anita. The Board and Staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum are deeply saddened by the death of Anita Saltz, beloved sister of our longtime supporters Renee and Robert Belfer, and Selma and Larry Ruben. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the Belfer and Saltz families. Barbara Lane President, AFIM James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir., IM Carolyn Cohen Exec. Dir., AFIM
        SALTZ-Anita. The courage, generosity and strength of character of our stepsister served as an inspiration to the entire family. May tender memories comfort her devoted husband, Jack, and their beloved children, Leonard, Susan and Ronald, and their families. It has been said that a heart is not judged by how many it loves, but rather by how many it is loved by. Anita, loved by our hearts and by so many others. Kathi Cypres, Ken Endelson and Families
        SALTZ-Anita. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Vice President and generous benefactor Robert Belfer on the loss of his beloved sister. May their cherished memories be a source of consolation to the bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President Philip Sassower, Exec. Com. Chair
        SALTZ-Anita. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member, Anita Saltz, and extend to her bereaved husband Jack and the members of her family, our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary
        SALTZ-Anita. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth Chasen, Assistant Rabbi Jack Stern Jr., Rabbi Emeritus
        SALTZ-Anita. Our dear friend of many years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Jack and to their entire family. Our thoughts and prayers are with you all. Lawrence and Jane David Joan David
        SALTZ-Anita. Our dearest friend for over 30 years. Your spirit, warmth and wit will forever be in our hearts. We extend our deepest sympathies to the Saltz, Ruben and Belfer families. Sandra, Herb, Neil, Debbie and Lloyd Khaner
      