
        HINMAN-William, 56, Buddhist, Philanthropist, Businessman. William Hinman, prominent member of the Buddhist community and longtime business leader in Chicago passed away early on Friday July 27 of natural causes. Mr. Hinman was born in February 1945 in Evanston, Illinois and grew up in Lake Bluff, Illinois. During his years at Lake Forest High School he was an all-state athlete in baseball and football and he quarterbacked a football team that was undefeated during his four year high school career. He graduated second in his class, summa cum laude, National Honor Society and was a National Merit Scholar. At the age of 15, he became a union musician and played bass professionally in a jazz band for his remaining high school years. He graduated from Cornell University in 1968 with a major in Philosophy. He was a member of the Zeta Beta Tau fraternity. Beginning at the age of 26, he pursued a career as an executive recruiter in Chicago for twenty years with great success. His clients included many Fortune 100 companies. He was an avid sailor and sailed many Chicago-Mac races; he also skied and ran many marathons. In 1992, he created SSC, an Information Technology consulting company that married his recruiting and consulting skills. For seven years he built this company as a vision and reflection of his Buddhist practice planting the seeds of Buddhist principles into the business model of corporate America. In 1998, he sold the company in order to devote full time to his philanthropic endeavors. He was an active Buddhist practitioner and leader for over 10 years. He worked tirelessly to preserve the precious Tibetan Buddhist teachings and texts. He traveled all over the world amassing an extensive collection of religious art, cultural material and literature that he made available to the American Buddhist community. He supported the construction and restoration of major monasteries in the United States, India and Tibet. Throughout his life he inspired people to aim for their highest dreams and to achieve them. His own crowning achievement was to play a major role in the conception and creation of a full Nyingma Buddhist retreat center and university in upstate New York with the help and guidance of his longtime teachers, two Tibetan Masters. The temple was consecrated three days before his death; he was honored for the fulfillment of his dream at this ceremony. His great joy and gusto for life, loving nature, generosity, creative mind and ability to listen to people will be missed by his many friends and family. Those who heard his infectious laugh will never forget it. He was a larger than life character who touched many people deeply and with whom many people identified as their best friend. There will be a celebration of his life in the Grand Ballroom at the Marriott Resort in Lincolnshire, Illinois on Wednesday, August 8 at 6 P.M. There will also be a memorial service at the Buddhist temple in September. For details please contact Barrie Hinman at 847-382-8420. He is survived by his parents, Glidden and Virginia, brother Robert, sister Barrie, nieces Lael (Jim) Stanczak and Jessa (Jeff) Heydt, great nephews Caelen Heydt and Teaguen Stanczak, and great nieces Ainsley Stanczak, Alicia Heydt, Keeley Stanczak and Genevieve Heydt. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Vajrakilaya Foundation, 119 North Grant Street, Barrington, IL 60010.
      