
        McALEER-Joseph J. Died on August 17, 2001, in Greenwich, CT, at the age of 72 after a courageous battle with cancer. Loving and devoted father of four sons, Andrew, Gregory, Joseph, Jr., and David; loving and devoted father-in-law to Valerie and Christina; loving and devoted grandfather to Stephanie Hope. Beloved husband for five years of Frances; beloved husband of 30 years of Hope Marie (deceased). Born July 12, 1929, in New York City, he was the son of the late Joseph E. and Mary McAleer. He attended All Hallows Institute High School in New York City, and obtained bachelor's and master's degrees from the City College of New York. He served in the U.S. Army from 1952-1954 during the Korean War. From 1955 until his death he was a shipbroker. He was founder and partner of two successful ship brokerage firms, Long, Quinn & McAleer (LQM) Associates, Inc., in New York City, and MCA Associates, Inc., in Greenwich, CT. He was an active and dedicated member of many boards and charities. He served on the board of trustees of Fairfield University in Fairfield, CT, and the American Merchant Marine Museum, Kings Point, NY. He was a former director of the Association of Shipbrokers and Agents and the Connecticut Maritime Association. He was founder and president of the Partners Circle of the Salesian Sisters of Saint John Bosco in North Haledon, NJ, where he worked tirelessly to encourage financial support for elderly and infirm nuns. A devout Roman Catholic, he was a member of Saint Michael the Archangel Parish in Greenwich, CT. His kindness and generosity to everyone he met knew no bounds. Calling hours are 4 to 8 PM on Tuesday, August 21, at the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home, 31 Arch Street, Greenwich, CT. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at 11 AM on Wednesday, August 22, at Saint Michael the Archangel Church, 469 North Street, Greenwich, CT, followed by interment at Saint Mary Cemetery, Greenwich, CT. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the Salesian Sisters of Saint John Bosco, 659 Belmont Avenue, North Haledon, NJ 07508, or to the Nursing Oncology Fund of Greenwich Hospital, 5 Perryridge Road, Greenwich, CT 06830.
      