
        PAPA-Dr. Domenick. A key contributor to the growth and success of Schering-Plough Corporation, died Sunday at his home in Scottsdale, AZ. He was 88. Concluding a career with Schering as Vice President, Corporate Scientific Liaison, Dr. Papa secured licensing agreements with several foreign companies such as Glaxo. He was also responsible for securing the patent for the antibiotic Garamicyn. Prior to this, as Co-Director of Scientific Research for Schering, Dr. Papa was instrumental in the development of the Trimeton family of drugs, some of which are still key products for the company today. In 1958, Dr. Papa received an award from the nation of Chile, recognizing his accomplishments in the development of an x-ray contrast agent, Priodax. However, what Dr. Papa considered his ''greatest triumph'' was the awarding of patents to Schering for Prednisone and Prednisolone following a long battle with several larger competing companies. Over the course of his career, Dr. Papa authored or coauthored over 60 papers in organic and medicinal chemistry. Also, Dr. Papa was named as inventor or co-inventor on 40 U.S. patents and several hundred corresponding foreign patents. Concurrent with his career as a chemist, Dr. Papa enjoyed extensive travel to Europe, South America and Asia. He developed an affinity for gourmet cooking and was as fond of his ''Skillet'' diploma as he was any of his other professional accomplishments. Following his retirement from Schering in 1976, he pursued a very active and successful enterprise in antique furniture collecting and restoration. Dr. Papa was born in NYC in 1913, graduated from Brooklyn College in 1935 and earned Masters and Doctoral degrees from Columbia University. He lived in NJ until early 1998 when he and his wife relocated to AZ. Dr. Papa is survived by his wife RoseMarie, daughters Fay, Janice and Cynthia, son William, brother Joseph, sister Mary, four grandchildren and one greatgrandson. Messinger Indian School Mortuary, Scottsdale, AZ.
      