
        BEEKLEY-Mason W. III. Of New Hartford, Connecticut, a man of vision, dignity and compassion, died peacefully Monday, August 20, 2001 in Beverly Hills, CA. He was born on February 9, 1927 in Hartford, Connecticut, the son of Aline F. Beekley and F. Cheyney Beekley. Mason graduated from Kingswood School (West Hartford) & from Princeton University in 1949. He was predeceased by his wife of 42 years, Eliza Atlee Quarrier Beekley. A longtime resident of New Hartford, CT, he and his family lived at The Parsonage. He is survived by his children LizaLee Q.B. Kremer and her husband George of Lawrenceville, Georgia, Lorie Q.B. Cheney and her husband Dexter of Collinsville, CT, Sayre C.T.B. Wardell and her husband Daniel of Waitsfield, VT and Frances F. Beekley of Nahant, MA. He leaves five grandchildren, Brooke, Winston and Elektra Cheney, and MacKenzie and Tavish Wardell. He is also survived by his sister, Frances B. Haviland and her husband Samuel of Farmington, CT. Mason joined Beekley Corporation in 1952 to which he devoted his business career. He was Chairman & Chief Executive Officer. He was an entrepreneur and invested and/or contributed to the invention of proprietary information products. Today, Beekley Corporation, through teaching the many applications of its 35 radiological disposable Beekley Spots products, contributes to life-saving diagnostic radiology procedures such as mammography. These products, now used by more than 9,000 North American hospitals and clinics, are a new language of radiology that every day helps to save lives. In 1991 Mr. Beekley was honored as CEO of one of the most successful businesses in Connecticut. Mr. Beekley founded and underwrote the International Skiing History Association, which today has grown to 1,000 associates in 14 countries. He also was the founder of the Beekley International Library of Skiing Literature, currently comprising the largest such collection in the world. In 1992, Mr. and Mrs. Beekley purchased and donated 1.5 acres of land in the center of New Hartford to the town to provide the site on which to build a new library. In 2001 the library was renamed the Licia and Mason Beekley Memorial Library. In 1996 he initiated and underwrote a professional study New Hartford Center: A Vision Plan for the 21st Century, subsequently adopted by the town. Mason has donated a substantial amount of land on the Farmington River riverfront to New Hartford to be converted to parkland. This will be known as Riverviews Park. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to I.S.H.A., 499 Town Hill Road, New Hartford, CT 06057, the Licia and Mason Beekley Memorial Library, 10 Central Ave, New Hartford, CT 06057 or American Cancer Society, 45 Wintonbury Ave, Bloomfield, CT 06002. Arrangements for a memorial service are being made.
      