
        CASHMAN-Betty, ''Coach to the Famous,'' nationally known drama coach for politicians and performers, died Wednesday after a long illness. She was 90 years old. A native of New York City she taught acting and speech skills to a wide range of public figures from the late director of the Central Intelligence Agency, William J. Casey, and the late New York City Mayor, John Lindsay, to actors, Jack Palance and Tony Curtis. She was born in New York and began her professional acting career at age 4. Betty graduated with honors from the American Academy of Dramatic Arts and began her coaching career in New York City. During the 1950's, Ms. Cashman received four consecutive ''Show Business Oscars'' for ''Greatest Development of New Talent in the Theatre.'' Over the years, her list of clients included Dr. Joyce Brothers, Nancy Sinatra, Zsa Zsa and Eva Gabor, Gene Shalit, and Eileen Ford. Co-Founder of Ford Models, Eileen Ford said that ''Betty Cashman was very much a part of my life and that of Ford Models in the early days of television commercials. She gave us lessons that not only improved our speech, but gave us all the confidence we all needed. Betty Cashman was the best there was. We all owed her a lot.'' In an interview with Charlie Rose on Rose's PBS program, Academy Award-winning actor, Jack Palance, singled Ms. Cashman out for praise as ''a fantastic coach.'' Bernadette Casey-Smith, daughter of the late CIA Director, William J. Casey, said her father called Betty Cashman ''a national treasure.'' Betty's technique attracted her to show producers who hired her as an ''Actor's Doctor,'' working with performers on a dramatic role. She was the author of several books on acting, one of which, ''Betty Cashman and You in Personality, Acting and Public Speaking,'' earned the coveted International Mark Twain Award. Betty is also listed in the ''Who's Who of American Women'' and ''Who's Who of the American Theatre.'' A celebration of Betty Cashman's life will be held at a later date. ''Liz'' Wickersham
        CASHMAN-Betty. A prominent drama and political coach in New York City for many years. Beloved sister of Larry and Gilda. Devoted aunt of Ronald, Annette, Jeffrey and Arlene. Loving grand aunt of Brett and Jill. She will be missed by the many whose lives she touched.
      