
        COBB-Elizabeth Bliss Parkinson. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and Members of its International Council are deeply saddened by the death of their treasured friend and colleague, Eliza Parkinson Cobb. In her almost 70-year close association with the Museum, she gave generously of her time and resources, following in the tradition of her aunt, Lillie P. Bliss, one of the three founders of the Museum in 1929. From her first formal involvement with the Museum, at the invitation of Nelson Rockefeller, as Chairman of the Junior Advisory Committee, to her election as a Trustee in 1939, and her subsequent involvement in the founding of the Museum's International Council on which she served as President from 1957 to 1966, Eliza remained active in the Council for many years thereafter, & was deeply linked to every facet of the Museum's activities. She served as a member of virtually every Museum Trustee committee, participating in curatorial, administrative, financial, educational, and archival areas, chairing the Photography Committee from 1983 to 1987 and the Building Committee from 1968 to 1977, among others. Her deep and abiding intererest in the Museum's staff was well known, and she encouraged its growth with the same vigor and spirit she showed in support of young artists. Eliza was President of the Museum from 1965 to 1968, and remained an active Vice Chairman until 1993 when she became a Life Trustee. We extend our deepest sympathy and affection to her devoted family: her daughter Zaidee Parkinson; her son John Parkinson III and her daughter-in-law Charlotte; her step-children Alex & Sheila Ewing, Ian and Victoria Mackintosh, and John and Bayard Cobb; 5 grandchildren, John Parkinson, Allston Parkinson, Elizabeth ParkinsonWyner, Basil Dufallo and Cornelius Dufallo; and three great-grandchildren. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY Brian Urquhart, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art, NY
      