
        COPELON-Esther Gold Milikowsky died on August 26th. She was born in New Haven, Ct. on April 27, 1919. She was the youngest of six children of Jacob Lyon & Sarah Freida Meltzer Gold. Her father was in the wholesale dairy business in New Haven which he started after emigrating from Minsk, Russia several years before her birth. In 1934 the family lived their dream of making aliyah to Palestine to help create a Jewish state. Her father worked the land as a farmer in Herzeliya where Esther grew up. Esther met her husband Matthew Milikowsky in Herzeliya and they were married in 1938. Their first son Nathan was born in Tel Aviv. In 1946 they came to New Haven. Their daughter Michelle (Mady) & son Daniel were born in New Haven. Esther was an integral part of the Jewish community, was asked to join many charitable boards, and became a leader at Hadassah, Brandeis, Technion, the Jewish Theological Seminary, the New Haven Hebrew Day School, & the Jewish Museum of New York. Over the years, she was honored by many of these organizations. Matthew died in 1969 and in 1976 she married Herman Copelon. They spent winters in Palm Beach, FL, where she also became involved in many Jewish organizations, and each summer they returned to New Haven. She is survived by her husband Herman H. Copelon, her children Nathan & Rebecca Milikowsky of Chestnut Hill, Ma., Danny & Sharon Milikowsky of New Haven, Ct., Mady & Sandy Harman of Manhattan, and stepdaughter Rhonda Copelon of Brooklyn. She is also survived by her grandchildren; Brina & Shira Milikowksy, Matthew, Jonathan, & Jennifer Milikowsky, and Matthew & Jamie Harman, & her sister Harriet Goodman of London, England. Esther was the sister of the late Rhea Zimmerman of Manhattan, Leah Fein of Ct., Rose Reina of San Mateo, Ca., & Solomon Gold of Manhattan. She is survived by many loving sisters-inlaw, brothers-in-law, & nieces & nephews. Funeral services at Cong. B'nai Jacob, 75 Rimmon Rd., Woodbridge, Ct. Tuesday afternoon at 2:00 o'clock with interment services to follow in the B'nai Jacob Memorial Park, Wintergreen Ave., New Haven. Any contributions offered in her memory should be sent to The Esther Milikowsky Copelon Fund at the New Haven Hebrew Day School, 261 Derby Ave., Orange, Ct. 06477. Shiva will be observed at the home of Sharon & Dan Milikowsky, New Haven, thru Friday. For information Robert E. Shure Funeral Home, New Haven.
        COPELON - Esther Milikowsky. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Esther Milikowsky Copelon, a devoted member of the Jewish community in New Haven, Connecticut, and Palm Beach, Florida. Mrs. Copelon was the beloved mother of Mady Harmon, who with her husband Sandy, are key leaders of UJA-Federation. Mady has served as chair of our overall Women's Campaign, and our Manhattan Women's Campaign, as well as a member of our Board of Directors. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mady and Sandy; to Mrs. Copelon's beloved husband, Herman; to her son, Nathan, and daughter-in-law, Rebecca; to her son, Daniel, and daughter-in-law, Sharon; to her seven grandchildren; and to her entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Joan Ginsburg, Chair of the Women's Campaign
      