
        DeCECIO-Thomas Carmyn, M.D., F.A.C.C.P., D.I.M., on Wednesday, August 1, 2001. A resident and physician in Cliffside Park, NJ for more than 60 years, Dr. DeCecio maintained a private practice until 1988 and also served at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, NJ for over 45 years as, among other things, Chief of Medicine, Chief of Staff, lecturer in the Nursing School, and vice president of the Board of Trustees. Dr. DeCecio was a member for 18 consecutive years and chaired two committees of the State Board of Medical Examiners, served as a trustee of the Medical Society of New Jersey, and was past president of the Bergen County Medical Society. In his retirement, he established and worked in Holy Name's corporate annual exam program until a severe stroke forced him into full retirement at age 83. Dr. DeCecio's parents came from Capua, Italy to Brooklyn, NY, where Thomas was born on July 4, 1910. Precocious and multi-talented, Thomas graduated early from Boys High School and from the City College of New York, played violin in the Brooklyn Boys Philharmonic, and earned spending money by providing musical accompaniment for silent movies. Dr. DeCecio earned his M.D. from the Long Island College of Medicine (now SUNY Downstate Medical Center) in 1933 and, after completing his residency at Pollak Hospital for Chest Disease in Jersey City, became the first Italian American on the medical staff of Holy Name Hospital. Survivors include his wife, Dorothy Anechino DeCecio; his daughter, Dorothy (Rori) Kanter and her husband Dr. David Kanter of Teaneck and Lenox, MA; a sister, Vivian Bua of Baldwin, NY; four Kanter grandchildren: Mark Thomas and his wife Heather Hutchison, Daniel and his wife Marianne Gargour, Sara, and Beth and her husband Peter Miller; and two Kanter great-grandchildren, Dante DeCecio and Gabriella Renee. Funeral from McCorry Brothers Funeral Home, 780 Anderson Avenue, Cliffside Park, on Saturday, August 4, at 10:00 AM. Funeral Mass to be celebrated at St. Anastasia's R.C. Church, Teaneck, at 11:00 AM. Interment to follow at George Washington Memorial Park, Paramus. Visiting hours are on Thursday, from 7-9 P.M., and on Friday, from 2-4 & 7-9 P.M. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to: Thomas Carmyn DeCecio, MD Endowment Alumni AssociationCollege of Medicine, SUNY Downstate Medical Center, 450 Clarkson Ave, Box 1204, Brooklyn, NY 11203.
      