
        MALONEY-James D. After a short, but courageous battle against cancer, 72 year old James Maloney of Juno Beach, FL, passed away on July 30, 2001. Born to Irish immigrant parents on February 28, 1929 in Cincinnati, OH, Mr. Maloney carved out a full and meaningful life along with an illustrious career in the soft drink industry that spanned more than four decades. He began that career in 1954 when he joined the Pepsi Cola Bottling Co. as an assistant driver. Mr. Maloney steadily rose through the ranks of Pepsi Cola in Cincinnati, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, and finally New York, where he was named Vice President of National Sales. In 1986, Mr. Maloney joined the Coca Cola Bottling Co. of Ohio as President, Chief Executive Officer. After a short stint in Akron, he moved to the Big Apple where he was named President and Chief Operating Officer of The Coca Cola Bottling Co. of New York, Inc. Mr. Maloney retired in 1996 as Chairman and CEO of the company. He resided in Juno Beach with his wife of fifty years, Jean Ann Maloney. He is also survived by his children, James T. & Rita Maloney of Acworth, GA, Kathleen Tebbe & her partner of nine years, Jim Quigley of Birmingham, MI., and Kevin Maloney of Jupiter, FL. He will be sorely missed by his six grandchildren, Allison, Shannon, Jennifer, Ryan, Thomas and Daniel along with their mother, Terry Maloney. He is also survived by his loving brother, Thomas J. Maloney of Cincinnati, OH. An avid golfer, Mr. Maloney was a member of Ballen Isle Country Club. He was also a Communicant of St. Patrick's Catholic Church, Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Visitation will be 9AM-11AM Saturday, August 4, at Taylor & Modeen Funeral Home, 250 Center St, Jupiter, FL. Mass of the Christian Burial will be celebrated at 11:30 AM Saturday at St. Patrick's Catholic Church, 13591 Prosperity Farms Rd, Palm Beach Gardens with Rev. Bernard Dooley as celebrant. Family requests donations in Mr. Maloney's memory to Hospice of Palm Beach County, 5300 East Ave, West Palm Beach, FL. 33407.
      