
        SPODEK-Vivian Nancy. Beloved wife of Dr. Irving, cherished mother of Stephen and Julie, devoted daughter of Sylvia and the late Dr. Jacob Ginsberg, most special sister of Susan and Dr. Paul Beck, adored aunt of Jonathan Beck, and Judith and Adam Wagner, died peacefully after a determined fight against cancer for nearly five years. She fought valiantly for herself and for that cause. Her spirit and her selflessness will remain with those who knew her forever. Services are at 12 noon, Sunday, Schwartz Bros, Queens Blvd, Forest Hills.
        SPODEK-Vivian. The entire Puritz family mourns Vivian, our beloved friend and relative, and a most spiritual, caring, loving soul. She touched us all in her own classy way and was an inspiration for those lucky enough to have known her. Our hearts are with her mother Sylvia, her husband Irving, children Julie and Stephen, and her sister Susan and her family.
        SPODEK-Vivian Nancy. Treasured aunt of Judy and Adam Wagner, adored great-aunt of Jacqueline and Sara. You are the brighest star in the sky. Thank you for all that you've given us and for always being there. We will cherish you forever. In the language of the flowers, we hold your rosemary steady.
        SPODEK-Vivian. Our friend since childhood who will always be remembered for her love of life, courage and dignity to the end. We are glad she touched our lives and will be deeply missed. Our condolences to Irv, Julie, Stephen, Sylvia and the Beck family. Margie, Phil, Susan and Stanley
        SPODEK-Vivian. You will always be in my mind and in my heart. You will be missed, dear friend, but never forgotten. My love and sympathy to the entire family. Bobbi Miller
        SPODEK-Vivian. We loved her dearly. Her kindness and generosity will be greatly missed. The Bobley Family
        SPODEK-Vivian. Your light will continue to shine. Our condolences to the entire family. Shirley and Danny Rubin
        SPODEK-Vivian Nancy. From Paul -you were the most decent, loving, unselfish person I ever knew. You leave an unfillable void. Forty years of knowing you was my amazing good fortune.
        SPODEK-Vivian Nancy. My dearest, sweetest sister; my friend. I love you forever. Sholom.
      