
        BROCKIE-Edward Simmons, Jr. Died on August 15, 2001, at the age of 75 in West Barnstable, MA. Formerly of Englewood, NJ; he also resided in Vero Beach, FL. He attended the Englewood School for Boys, and was a graduate of Phillips Andover Academy, Andover, MA. Upon graduation from Yale University in 1946, he was commissioned as an Ensign, redeploying returning personnel from the Pacific at San Francisco's Treasure Island. In 1947 he began his insurance career with the INA, where his grandfather once served on the Board of Directors. He soon followed his father to R.C. Rathbone & Son, a well-known New York insurance broker. His accomplishments and abilities were quickly recognized when Fred S. James acquired R.C. Rathbone in 1968. At age 45, he was elected to the Fred S. James Board of Directors and served as President of their New York Office. After 41 years in the brokerage business, Mr. Brockie retired from Alexander & Alexander New York in 1988. He served as a councilman in Englewood, NJ; was both a committee chairman for the construction of the Englewood Public Library, as well as a chairman of the Yale Alumnae Scholarship Committee of Bergen County. His participation and love of sports remained with him throughout his life. He was a member of Pine Valley Golf Club, New York Yacht Club, John's Island Club, Knickerbocker C.C. and the Kittannsett Club. He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Janice Murray; and four children, Janine B. McKee of Tenafly, NJ; Edward Simmons Brockie III of Danville, CA; Douglas M. Brockie of Englewood, NJ; Margaret B. Hill of West Barnstable, MA; and eight grandchildren: Alida and Jeannette McKee; Kate, Lauren, Jane and Ted Brockie; Rebecca and Ashley Hill; also his sister Margaret B. Escher of Englewood, NJ, brother Arthur H. Brockie II of Melbourne, FL, and predeceased by his sister Dorothy Brockie. A memorial service will be held at 4 PM, September 15, at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Englewood, NJ. Contributions may be made to Davenport-Mugar Cancer Center, Cape Cod Hospital, 4 Bayview Street, Hyannis, MA 02601, in memory of Edward S. Brockie, Jr.
      