
        MISROCK-S. Leslie. On August 7, 2001, of Chappaqua, NY, and New York City. Husband of Barbara G. Father of Kathryn and Victoria Misrock. Father-in-law of Adam Goldstein. Grandfather of Benjamin Goldstein. Interment private. Memorial Service, September 12, 2001, at 11 AM, Fordham School of Law, McNally Amphitheater, 140 West 62nd St., New York, NY. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that contributions be made to: The S. Leslie Misrock Cancer Research Memorial Fund at The Rockefeller University, 1230 York Ave, Box 164, New York, NY 10021.
        MISROCK-S. Leslie. With deep sadness, CaP CURE (The Association for the Cure of Cancer of the Prostate) and the National Prostate Cancer Coalition mourn the passing of our colleague, S. Leslie Misrock. For decades, Les beat back the odds of advanced prostate cancer. A leader in the field of patent law & intellectual property, Les was also a symbol of courage and conviction for all of us in the prostate cancer research and advocacy communities. CaP CURE and the National Prostate Cancer Coalition will deeply miss his dedication to our boards of directors. But his friendship was the most important thing of all. Michael Milken Chair, CaP CURE Judge Ralph Burnett Chair, NPCC
        MISROCK-S. Leslie. A senior partner at the law firm of Pennie & Edmonds passed away Tuesday, August 7 after battling prostate cancer for 27 years. Mr. Misrock was born in Jersey City, NJ on February 26, 1928. He was a leader in the field of intellectual property protection. Mr. Misrock's 27 year battle with prostate cancer made him the longest-lived survivor of that disease. He served as a member of The Prostate Cancer Advisor Group of The American Cancer Society since 1989. Mr. Misrock, a resident of Chappaqua, NY is survived by his wife, Barbara; his daughters Kathy and Vicky; his son-in-law Adam; and his grandson Ben. He was predeceased by his son David.
        MISROCK-S. Leslie. The Fordham Law School community records with great sorrow the passing of our alumnus of the Class of 1959, S. Leslie Misrock. He was a member of our Board of Visitors, a wise counselor and great friend. He was a leader of the legal profession and of his distinguished firm. Our prayers and love are with his family at this time. John D. Feerick, Dean
      