
        TEAGLE-Rhoda Walker. Age 91, of Woodstock, VT, formerly of NYC, died August 9 at Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH. She was born June 9, 1910 in New York City, one of five daughters of Roberts Walker, a senior partner of White and Case lawyers in NY, and the former Edna Morse. She was educated at the Chapin School in NYC, attended Bryn Mawr College and then studied music in Paris with Nadia Boulanger. Recently a debut prize was established in her name for audition winners of Young Concert Artists in New York. In 1931, she married the late John French Jr. of NYC and Woodstock, VT., & is survived by the three children of that marriage: John French III of NYC, Roberts Walker French of Santa Fe, N.M., and Mary French Moore of Cheyenne, WY. In addition to her three children, she is survived by one sister Katherine MacKenty of Martha's Vineyard, ten grandchildren and 13 great grandchildren. She moved to Woodstock, VT in 1948, and in 1955, she married Frank H. Teagle Jr. of Woodstock, who predeceased her in 1997. She was active all her life in community affairs. In 1943 she was one of the co-founders of The Officers Club at the Hotel Delmonico in NY, which became an internationally famous home-awayfrom-home until 1945 for Allied military officers from around the world. In 1942, she was also a volunteer air-raid warden, patrolling the streets of Harlem at night, twice a week, helping to secure the wartime blackout. She was an early member of the Cosmopolitan Club. She continued to be active in community affairs after moving to Vermont, and in 1997 was honored as Woodstock's Citizen of the Year. In 1999, at the age of 89, she was selected as the Queen of Woodstock's annual Rotary Carnival. She was a charter Overseer of the Dartmouth Medical School, and among many boards, served on the Vermont Institute of Natural Science, The Vermont Land Trust, The North Pomfret Congregational Church, the Vermont Children's Aid Society, Mt. Ascutney Hospital and the Ottauquechee Health Center, and was a Woodstock Village Trustee. She served as Secretary of the Woodstock Union High School Board, and recently the Library in that School was dedicated in her name. Demonstrating her commitment to her community, she and her late husband owned the Elm Tree Press, the Town and Country Shop and the Yankee Bookshop, all in Woodstock. Funeral services will be private and a memorial service will be held Saturday, August 18 at 11AM at the Unitarian Universalist Chapel in Woodstock. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, One Medical Center Drive, Lebanon, NH 03756 or the Vermont Institute of Natural Science, 27023 Church Hill Road, Woodstock, VT 05091.
      