
        DEAN-Howard B. Died August 23rd in Southampton Hospital of respiratory failure. He was 80 years of age and a resident of East Hampton, New York. Mr. Dean attended the Browning School in New York City, Pomfret School and Yale University. During World War II, he served with Pan Am Africa and the Chinese National Aviation Corp AVG in India and China. He received commendations from the Chinese National Government and the United States Air Force for his service in the Asia Pacific Theatre. An active member of the Wall Street community for forty years, Mr. Dean was a partner at Harris Upham before becoming a Senior Vice President of Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. He served on the Board of Governors of the Investment Bankers Association, the American Stock Exchange and the Association of Stock Exchange Firms. He was a member of the Vestry of St. Luke's Church, East Hampton, New York, and served for a number of years as Senior Warden. He served as a member of the Board of Trustees of Browning School, of Pomfret School and as Chairman of the Board of Trustees of St. George's School, Newport, Rhode Island. He was a member of the Board of Directors of the Hospital for Special Surgery and the Freedom Institute, both of New York City. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Andree Maitland Dean, three sons, Howard B. M.D. (Judy) Governor of Vermont, James H. (Virginia) of Fairfield, Connecticut, and William G. (Beth) of Dover, Mass. and ten grandchildren; two sisters, Marianne Hill of Cold Spring Harbor, New York and Nancy Felch and her husband, William C. Felch M.D. of Carmel, California. He was pre-deceased by a son Charles, who died in Laos in 1974. Above all, his memory is defined by his friendship, humanity, integrity, and humor which will be missed by all of us. Funeral Services will be held on Thursday, August 30th, 2001 at 11 A.M. at St. Luke's Church, James Lane, East Hampton, NY 11937. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to St. Luke's Church Endowment Fund.
        DEAN-Howard B. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and Administration of The Hospital For Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Howard B. Dean, a much loved and highly respected member of the Board for over fifteen years. Mr. Dean, a well known leader in the financial world gave unstintingly of his time and expertise in helping the hospital maintain the high degree of excellence for which it is known. His warmth and genuine concern for the needs of others endeared him to all who were fortunate to know him. He was considered a great friend by all of his fellow Board members and will always be remembered for his wisdom, indefatigable spirit and great sense of humor that he shared with us all. He will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Andree, his sons Howard, William, James and their families and to the community of friends to whom he gave so much of himself. Richard L. Menschel Chairman Aldo Papone Co-Chairman Board of Trustees John R. Reynolds President & CEO Russell F. Warren, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief Stephen A. Paget, M.D. Physician-in-Chief Philip D. Wilson, Jr., M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief, Emeritus
      