
        SAUNDERS-Agnes K., a naturalist and educator known to her family and friends as Tib, died peacefully of heart failure on July 30, 2001, at her home in Lynbrook, NY. She was 94. At her death, she was with her son, Paul Saunders, and her daughter, Marcia Dolan. She is also survived by another son, Dr. John Saunders, and she was predeceased by her husband, John, and her daughter, Nancy Saunders Raymond. She leaves 13 grandchildren: Susan Raymond Stala, Christopher Raymond, John Raymond, Dr. Paul Saunders, Michael Saunders, David Dolan, Matthew Dolan, Stephen Dolan, Mary Kate Dolan, John Dolan, Dr. John Kenneth Saunders, Thomas Saunders and Kate Saunders. She is also survived by a great-granddaughter, Olivia Stala, and by her brother, Hugh Kelly, and her sister, Claire Gilbert. She had 36 nieces and nephews. Tib Saunders (nee Kelly) was born in Utica, NY, in 1907. She graduated from Cornell University in 1929 and received a Master's degree from Cornell in 1930. Upon graduation, she worked as an associate in the Education Department of the American Museum of Natural History, where, among other things, she edited the films brought back from the Gobi Desert in 1930 by Roy Chapman Andrews. At the Museum, she met her husband, John, who later became chairman of the Education Department. She left the Museum in 1939 and moved to Lynbrook in 1942 to raise a family. She taught in the Lynbrook public school system and was elected to the Lynbrook Board of Education. She later became head of the Lynbrook office of the Nassau County Cooperative Extension, where she worked until her retirement in 1981. She was devoted to her alma mater, Cornell. For many years until her death, she served as Corresponding Secretary for the Class of 1929. She was also devoted to her church, St. Raymond's, where she served as Prefect of the Sodality. Throughout her life, Tib studied, wrote, taught and lectured extensively about natural history. She was widely recognized as an expert in the flora and fauna of Long Island and her advice was actively sought on a wide variety of environmental and ecological topics. As evidence of her lifelong devotion to science and to Cornell University, she has donated her body to the Cornell Medical School. There will be no wake. A memorial mass will be celebrated at St. Raymond's Church, Atlantic Avenue, East Rockaway, NY, on Saturday, August 4, at 9:30 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent in her name to the Development Office, Cornell University, 55 Brown Road, Ithaca, NY 14850-1247, Attention of Rebekah Coleman.
      