
        de CASTRO - Robert Massy Joseph, 94. On 14 August 2001 in Brookhaven, GA., widower of Margaret Adams Walker, survived by cherished stepdaughter Ann Crowley Thorpe, New Milford, Connecticut, and cousins Capt J. Edmund de Castro, Jr., USNR (Ret), Julian E. de Castro, Alicia de Castro Kwietniewski of Buffalo, NY, and Lt. Samuel Fletcher de Castro, USN, Monterey, CA; Col. Carlos M. de Castro, MD USA (Ret) Houston, TX; Major Ralph de Castro, US Army Air Corps (Ret.) Melbourne, FL; and Christine de Castro Hatcher Duluth, GA., many cousins, friends, & esteemed Coast Guard and Navy shipmates. He was a grandson of Eduardo de Castro, a Patriot who advocated Puerto Rican independence from Spain, who with his brothers, established a N.Y.C. cigar manufactory at 3 and 5 Coenties slip on the Manhattan waterfront in the 1880's. Robert de Castro graduated from Manhattan College and attended Columbia Law School. He was a veteran textile representative of Joshua Baily & Co. and Pacific Mills. In 1936 he was a crew member of famous Naval architect, Henry M. Devereux's, cutter ''Pendragon'', participating in the Newport to Bermuda race, weathering a full gale, finally arriving in Bermuda. He was a founder of the Storm Trysail Club, a Larchmont, NY yacht club. A Coast Guard Ensign in WW II, he served in the cutter U.S.S. Tampa on the Greenland Patrol; and after the Coast Guard was assimilated into the Navy during W.W. II, he received a Navy commission, and when promoted to Lieutenant Commander, was executive officer of the U.S.S. Peoria (PF 67) on North Atlantic and Mediterranean convey duty. He participated in many attacks against German submarines. After the war he managed the New York City office of the Baily Co., and opened a Dallas, TX branch office. In addition to the Storm Trysail Club, he was a member of the East Lake Golf Club, Atlanta, GA, and the Coast Guard Combat Veterans Assn., the Greenland Patrol Assn. and the Peoria Reunion Assn. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Avenue at 66th Street on Saturday 18 August 2001 at 9:45 A.M. Burial will be at Mount Calvary Cemetery Queens, New York. A memorial Mass of Christian Burial will be held at the Cathedral of Christ the King in Atlanta in September at the family's convenience. Contributions may be made to the donor's Charity of choice.
      