
        d'HARNONCOURT-Sarah Carr. Daughter of Harry Cumings Carr and Anne Connor Carr, sister of the late Malcolm Collier, and widow of Rene d'Harnoncourt, died on Tuesday, August 7, at Bryn Mawr Hospital after a brief illness. She was ninety-seven. She was born in Chicago on October 24, 1903, moved with her family to Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where she attended the German-American Academy, and moved back to Chicago where she graduated from The Faulkner School. She went to Wellesley College, from which she received her B.A. in 1925, and after a brief business school course, she worked for several years at Marshall Field and Company in Chicago as an editor of the store's magazine, Fashions of the Hour. She met her future husband, Rene d'Harnoncourt, a young Austrian then living in Mexico, when he came to Chicago on tour with an exhibition of Mexican Arts which he had organized for the American Federation of the Arts. They met in the book store at Marshall Fields, where he was signing copies of children's books he had illustrated, and it was love at first sight. They were married in 1933 in Chicago. Her husband became a U.S. citizen and they lived in Washington, D.C. while he worked for the American Indian Arts & Crafts Board of the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs. In 1943 they moved to New York when he was hired by The Museum of Modern Art, where he later served as director until his retirement in 1968. Mr. d'Harnoncourt died in an automobile accident a few months later. The couple's only child, Anne, was born in 1943 and currently serves as Director of the Philadelphia Museum of Art. In 1982, Mrs, d'Harnoncourt moved to the Philadelphia area to be closer to her daughter and son-in-law, Joseph J. Rishel, and was a resident of Dunwoody Village in Newtown Square where she had many friends. She was a lifelong devotee of movies and the ballet, a staunch fan of public television and C-Span, and an avid reader, and her volunteer work included a stint of mentoring Hispanic children in the New York public school system. She is survived by her devoted & admiring daughter Anne d'Harnoncourt Rishel, two nephews in the United States, David Collier of Berkeley, California, and Bruce Collier of Worcester, Vermont, and their families, as well as seven Austrian nieces & nephews & their families. A memorial service will take place in Philadelphia in the fall.
      