
        MOLOSHOK-Ralph E., M.D. Age 88. Died on August 3, 2001 as a result of heart failure. He is survived by his wife, Margaret, his daughter, Lynn Green, and son, James, grandchildren, Aram, Gillian, Lisa and Daniel and brother, Norman. Dr. Moloshok practiced pediatric medicine in New York City for over four decades prior to his retirement to Boca Raton, FL. He was a professor of pediatrics at The Mount Sinai Medical School and an attending physician at Mount Sinai Hospital. He will be remembered fondly by his many patients for his tireless devotion to their care.
        MOLOSHOK-Ralph E., M.D.-The Department of Pediatrics of the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine mourns the passing of Ralph Moloshok on August 3, 2001, at age 88. Ralph grew up in New York City, attended the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, where he graduated first in his medical school class. He served his internship at Mt. Sinai Hospital and subsequently trained as a general pediatrician and pediatric endocrinologist at the Mt. Sinai Hospital and the College of Physicians and Surgeons, respectively. After completing his training, he entered the private practice of pediatrics in Manhattan. During WWII, Ralph volunteered in the army and served as a member of the Mt. Sinai Hospital Unit in North Africa. After completing his tour of military service, Ralph returned to private practice and concurrently became a major figure on the voluntary staff of the Department of Pediatrics of the Mt. Sinai Hospital. For more than three decades, he was Director of the newborn nursery and head of the division of pediatric endocrinology. With the advent of the Mt. Sinai Medical School, he became Professor of Pediatrics. There was unanimous opinion among all who interacted with Ralph Moloshok that he was the foremost pediatrician and consultant on the staff of Mt. Sinai Hospital. Ralph Moloshok was mentor and role model for scores of medical students, pediatric health staff trainees, and pediatric associates with whom he was affiliated in his private pediatric practice. Three generations of patients and parents of patients revered him and celebrated his career with a heavily-attended reception when he retired from his private practice in 1988. Ralph was a giant among his peers. We will long remember his professionalism, his friendliness, his warm personality and all that he has taught us about caring for infants and children. Department of Pediatrics Frederick J. Suchy, M.D., Chairman
        MOLOSHOK-Ralph, M.D. It is hard to replace a friend, teacher and role model. The lives of ourselves, our son Steven, and generations of patients have been touched by him. We extend our condolences to Marge, Lynn and Jimmy. They know as we do, that he was a wonderful man. He will be missed. Judy and Dick Saphir
      