
        RUDOLPH-Selma and Jack Together for Eternity you shall remain. Thanks for touching my life. The Staff at 80th St. Residence Jack Rudolph walked toward the Path that grew dimmer and darker as each day passed. He grew Older with sadly no recollection to the previous years. He was held captive to this world, Stranded, with only darkness to Defeat his path, his discouragement enhanced by his fears, Trapped in a universe of illusions, His memories faded into black, He held no means of communication. He was left with no will or Way to find his way back, fate had Crippled him with Alzheimer's. A voice from the outside enters Into his world of solitude, a voice Somewhat familiar, beckoning, Calling his name, casting along his Path, the glory and warmth of Light, the voice gently guides him Towards this breathless sight, he Searches for words that he wants To say, tempting the strength of his Memory, his brilliant blue eyes Sparkle, igniting a vague recollection, no words need be spoken, She knows he knows, he has found The light, it is Selma, his high School sweetheart, his beautiful And determined wife, defeater of The toughest of battles, Cancer, a Marriage of 56 years filled with Love, devoted to Jack she Remained each and every day. The one value held dear that I Believe helped him carry on, was That his family chose to stay by his Side, they held together, they Stayed strong. His wife Selma, Their children, Pamela and Susan And their grandchildren, Rachel, Emily and Zack gave him all they Had. Selma's soft-spoken voice Magnificently lighting his path, While each daughter found their Own way to bring out similar Glimpses of an experience their Mom shared with their dad. To my friend Selma, Your love was tested, tried and by All means proven true, when the Journey ended here, you were Separated but for only hours of Few. I believe Jack was the light Waiting and calling for you. I bid You both A fond farewell. May God bless your journey as you Travel forth with each other, Together, as it was destined, I Know you shall remain. Choose not to remember them as They used to be. Choose not to Leave them alone to battle this Disease. This is what some relatives of Alzheimer's fail to see, to See them as they are now is what They need us to help them face
      