
        CLAUSS-Pamela Heavey died peacefully at home on August 5, 2001 after a courageous battle with cancer. Mrs. Clauss, who lived in Manhattan, was the loving and devoted wife of Dr. Roy H. Clauss and the beloved and devoted stepmother of his three children Roy Stuart and his wife Kathryn, Eliot Reid and his companion Jamie Szoke, Jane B. Jackson and her husband David. She was a loving and devoted grandmother to Bryan North-Clauss, Melissa Malone, Lindsay, Ashley and Duncan Clauss, Floyd Jones, Pamela Jackson and Nathaniel Jackson, and sister of Jill Evans and her husband Alan Evans, and Philippa Lazarus and her husband Leslie Lazarus, A.O., of Sydney, Australia. Mrs. Clauss was born in Longueville, Sydney, Australia, to Alison Maud Bennett and John Aloysius Heavey, a New Zealand Navy veteran decorated for bravery in the ANZAC landing at Gallipoli in 1915. She was educated at St. Aidans and graduated from Sacred Heart College in Kensington, Sydney. Mrs. Clauss entered nursing training at St. Vincent's Hospital, Sydney in 1942. Following a grand tour of Europe and nursing in England in 1956, she returned to Australia and was appointed nursing sister in charge of St. Vincent's newly established cardio-thoracic surgical unit under the direction of Dr. Harry Windsor. In 1959 Mrs. Clauss went to the Mayo Clinic as part of an exchange-training program, and in 1965 she joined the openheart surgery team of Dr. Roy Clauss and Dr. George Reed in New York City. Her pioneering of cardio-surgical by-pass techniques at the Mayo Clinic, New York University Medical Center and the New York Medical College educated a host of nurse perfusionists. Mrs. Clauss was a remarkable woman who devoted her life to helping others through her dedication to the Inner City Scholarship Fund and work at the Yorkville Comman Pantry. She pursued her interests in historic preservation through her work at Community Board Eight and the Seventy Fourth Street Association, and had a tremendous love of the arts and music, frequenting the Metropolitan Opera and the Philharmonic as a patron. Mrs. Clauss was a devout Catholic who gave to the Church and who received great strength from her faith. She will be remembered by her family and friends for her warmth, enthusiasm and kindness. Services will be held on Tuesday, August 7th at 10am at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola at 980 Park Avenue at 84th Street in Manhattan. Burial will be at the Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorne, New York. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Inner City Scholarship Fund, 1011 First Avenue, New York, NY 10022-4134.
      