
        MILSTEIN-Henrietta (nee Haas). Died on Friday, August 17, after a valiant battle with cancer. Beloved wife for 51 years of Monroe. Devoted mother of Lazer (Zipporah), Andrew (Carol), Stephen (Eve). Loving grandmother of Nesanel, Asher, Elisha, Amanda, Daniel, Samuel and Grace. Sister of George Haas. Born in Vienna, graduate of George Washington High School and New York University, she received a Master's degree at C.W. Post College, Former resident of Long Beach, L.I., where she was past president of B'nai Brith, teacher/librarian Long Beach school system. Family will sit shiva at her home in NJ.
        MILSTEIN-Henrietta. To our dear friend Henny, you will always be in our hearts. We will miss you terribly. We offer our condolences to Monroe and family. May the beautiful memories bring you comfort at this time of sorrow. Jenny and Willy Apfel Families Learsi Inc.
        MILSTEIN-Henrietta. The employees of Longstreet wish to express their sincerest sympathy to the Milstein family on the passing of their loving wife, mother and grandmother, Henrietta Milstein. Harry Tawill, President Saul Tawill and Elliot Tawill
        MILSTEIN-Henrietta. The employees of Loring Coat, Inc. wish to express their sincerest sympathy to the Milstein family on the passing of their loving wife, mother and grandmother, Henrietta Milstein. Abraham Fuhr, President
        MILSTEIN-Henrietta. Our deepest sympathy to the family of Henrietta Milstein, may your sorrow be replaced with sweet memories. Henny, you will always have a place in our hearts, we will miss you. Ali and Vinnie Esposito
        MILSTEIN-Henrietta. We extend our sympathy to Monroe and his family on the loss of their beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Olympia Ltd and Tiger J.
        MILSTEIN - Henrietta (Hennie). We mourn the loss of our dear friend. She enriched the lives of those she touched. Arthur and Jinny Skolnik
        MILSTEIN-Henrietta. How sad we all are, we shall miss Henny greatly and never forget her. Betsy and Steven Conovitz
      