
        BLUMBERG-Ruth Elhassid. We deeply mourn the passing of our adored daughter, wife and mother. A trustee of Congregation Shearith Israel, past president of the Volunteers Association of the Jewish Museum, and a member of many Jewish organizations. Services Sunday, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        BLUMBERG-Ruth. The entire Jewish Museum family mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Ruth El-Hassid Blumberg. For over a quarter century Ruth has devoted her energy to sharing her passion for Jewish culture and ideals with others. As a skillful docent leading tours in the Museum, as president from 1993 to 1997 of the 180-member Volunteer Association, and as a great champion of Sephardi and Mizrachi traditions, Ruth's dedication and joy for her work at the Museum knew no bounds. We send our love to her family: husband, Jim; sons, David (and Hitomi), Daniel and Jonathan; and her dear mother, Rachel El-Hassid. We were blessed to have enjoyed Ruth's warmth and friendship for so very long. We will remember her wonderful spirit for many years to come. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Joan Rosenbaum, Director
        BLUMBERG-Ruth. It is with profound sorrow that The Jewish Museum Volunteer Association mourns the tragic loss of Ruth Blumberg, our distinguished past President and Docent extraordinaire for over 20 years. Ruth's friendship, wisdom, compassion and sensitivity extended to everyone. She was our guiding light. Her memory will continue to be an inspiration to all of us. May her mother, husband and children be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. The Jewish Museum Volunteer Association Sheila Lehman, President Dorothy Bamberger, Vice Pres
        BLUMBERG-Ruth Elhassid. The Sisterhood of the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue deeply mourns the loss of our devoted Board member and extends our condolences to her bereaved family. Irma Cardozo and Carla Schein, Co-Presidents
        BLUMBERG-Ruth Elhassid. We deeply mourn the untimely passing of our dearest Ruth. We shall miss her as we continue to love her for so long as we enjoy our collective memory of her wit, her wisdom, her beauty, her love and her friendship. Rita and Joshua
      