
        YOUNG-Charles Titus III. Of Lyme, CT, and Vero Beach, FL, died on August 24, 2001, at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, CT. Son of the late Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Young Jr., of Branford, CT. He was born September 8, 1917, in Brooklyn, NY. He is survived by his wife of 31 years, Nancy; his sister Sally Young Gevalt of Lakeville, CT; his children Charles A. Young of Guilford, CT; Lavinia Y. Davis of Newtown, CT, and David L. Young of Guilford, CT; his stepchildren Elizabeth M. Kafta of Guilford, CT; Douglas C. Milliken of Berkeley, CA; Tracy M. Fengler of Los Angeles, CA, and Nancy G. Milliken of Los Angeles, CA, and 11 grandchildren. He was a graduate of the Taft School and Williams College class of 1939. He was a Major in the United States Marine Corps, serving in the Pacific Theater during WWII. He was awarded the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star for wounds received and meritorious service in the battle for Okinawa. He was later promoted to Lieutenant Colonel. Among his business achievements he held executive positions with Young & Rubicam; Ketcham, McCloud & Grove; Schieffelin & Company, and was the president of the Double Colas Company of Chattanooga, TN. He was an accomplished sailor with experience ranging from working on the bowsprit of a 70 foot schooner in the middle of the night during a Bermuda race, to cruising with family up and down the East Coast from Maine to the Caribbean. He was a member of many clubs including the Cruising Club of America, the New York Yacht Club, the Essex Yacht Club, the Moorings Club and the Moorings Yacht Club, and the Old Lyme Country Club. He was also the past Commodore of the Pine Orchard Yacht and Country Club. During his retirement, he was on the Board of Directors and later an honorary Trustee of the Schepens Eye Research Institute of Boston, MA. Along with many other interests, he was an accomplished maritime artist. He was a loving husband and devoted father. Donations may be sent to the Schepens Eye Research Institute, 20 Staniford St, Boston, MA 02114. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, August 30, 2001, at 11 AM, in the First Congregational Church, Lyme St, Old Lyme, CT. Burial will be private. There are no calling hours.
      