
        FEITELSON-Milton, 89. A former Executive Director of the United Services Organization (USO) and well-known on serving the recreational, educational and welfare needs of the armed forces, died on August 8, 2001, in Santa Cruz, CA. He lived in Scotts Valley, CA after having moved to be with his son and family from St. Petersburg, FL. Before his move to Florida at retirement in 1975, he and his wife had lived and worked with USO in New Jersy, Georgia, Pennsylvania and New York. A graduate of City College of NY, with post-graduate work at NYU, Columbia and Cornell, he devoted most of his career life to our nation's youth -first in the Civilian Conservation Corps in the thirties, where he was Educational Advisor for the U.S. Office of Education, and later to those who served in our armed forces in World War II, Korea and Viet Nam. He served in the Roosevelt administration and as consultant to President Truman's Committee on Religion and Welfare in the Armed Forces in 1950 and helped train its field staff. He was the author of ''A Study of Community Organization for Military Personnel'', two books on recruiting and using resources for youth in uniform and several articles relative to the American communities' responsibilities to their sons and daughters service in our defense. He was the recipient of many awards among which were the Freedom Foundation's Award for Community Organization, the Army Patriotic Civilian Service Award, the Commerce and Industry Association Award for securing employment for retiring veterans and recognition and honors from all five branches of our armed forces. He was a pioneer in USO work and retired after 34 years of service. Mr. Feitelson was a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers, a member of the Academy of Certified Social Workers, a member of the Navy League and served on many governmental and community committees. His major pastime was boating and fishing. Survivors include his wife Gertrude, a daughter Mrs. James (Ellen F.) Gallas, a son William N. Feitelson and his wife Jorie of Santa Cruz, CA, and two granddaughters, Jennifer and Kristin. No funeral services will be held. Donations may be sent to the USO of Metropolitan New York.
      