
        RAVNER-Wendie. On August 4, 2001. Beloved wife of Harvey. Devoted mother of Marc and Samantha. Loving sister of Nancy. Cherished daughter of Marcia and Leonard Zigelbaum. She lived life with zest and joy and left us remembering her strength and dignity in these last months. Services Tuesday, August 7, 2001 at ''Temple Beth-El of Great Neck'', 5 Old Mill Road.
        RAVNER-Wendie Z. We mourn the passing of our cherished and lifelong friend, Wendie. We feel part of the extended Ravner and Ziegelbaum family and share in their tragic loss. Wendie brightened our lives with her enthusiasm and sense of style, lifting us to reach for the highest star. We will miss you. Nanci, Stuart, Brooke and Emily
        RAVNER-Wendie. To our most beloved friend, Wendie, you were always our wonderful friend. You lived such a full life in so few years. We love you and we will always miss you. To Harvey, Marc, Sam, Marcia, Lenny and Nancy, our deepest condolences. With love, Patty, Elliot, Adam and Allie
        RAVNER - Wendie. Throughout your courageous battle you displayed dignity, character, and grace. We will always remember you with love. Our deepest sympathy to the Ravner and Zigelbaum families. Joanne and Michael, Jeffrey, Robert and Brian
        RAVNER-Wendie. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Wendie, the wife of our esteemed member Harvey, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Lowell Kwiat, President
        RAVNER-Wendie. Our heartfelt sympathies to the Ravner and Ziegelbaum families. Wendie was a beloved friend whose memory we will carry in our hearts forever. She fought bravely and continued to live her life in her special fashion. We will miss her. Dina and Richard Schechter
        RAVNER-Wendie. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the untimely passing of its longtime member. We express our heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        RAVNER-Wendie. To our dear friend Wendie, you will always be in our hearts. We were friends through good times and bad and we will miss you terribly. Leslie and Alan
        RAVNER-Wendie. A sensitive and thoughtful friend whose memory will always remain in our hearts. With our deepest sympathy and love. Lynda and Joseph Jurist
        RAVNER-Wendie. Our heartfelt sympathies to Harvey, Marc, Samantha and the families. Wendie was a brave lady throughout her battle. Donna and Philip
      