
        RAVNER-Wendie. On August 4, 2001. Beloved wife of Harvey. Devoted mother of Marc and Samantha. Loving sister of Nancy. Cherished daughter of Marcia and Leonard Zigelbaum. She lived life with zest and joy and left us remembering her strength and dignity in these last months. Services Tuesday, August 7, 2001, at 12 noon, at ''Temple Beth-El of Great Neck,'' 5 Old Mill Road.
        RAVNER-Wendie. Sincerest sympathy to our dear friends Marcia and Len Ziegelbaum, Nancy Ziegelbaum, Harvey Ravner and children on the passing of Wendie Ravner. Her sparkling personality, her elegance and wit will remain with us always. Diane and Lester Nadel
        RAVNER-Wendie. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Wendie. Without her the world will be a little less beautiful and much less fun. Our deepest sympathies to the Ravner and Ziegelbaum families. Love, Betsy and Bob Dubofsky
        RAVNER-Wendie. We offer our sincere and heartfelt condolences to Harvey, Marc and Samantha. May beautiful memories bring you comfort at this time of sorrow. Love, Gail and Barry Group and Family
        RAVNER-Wendie. Who was responsible for our falling in love 27 years ago and whose friendship we cherished. We will miss her forever. Our hearts go out to Harvey, Marc and Samantha. And to Marcia, Leonard and Nancy. Janie and Marc Schorr
        RAVNER-Wendie. Most dearest friends, Leonard, Marcia, Harvey, Marc and Samantha, we grieve with you and for you for the loss of our beloved Wendie. Ted, Christine, Cathy, George and Catherine
        RAVNER-Wendie. We fell under the warm and loving spell of Wendie. Our hearts go out to Harvey, Marc, Samantha, Nancy, and to Marcia and Leonard Zigelbaum. Ellen and Myron Conovitz
        RAVNER-Wendie. Our hearts go out to Harvey, Marc and Samantha on this enormous loss. May Wendie always be a cherished memory to all. Penny, John, Jill and Jennifer
        RAVNER-Wendie. To our dear friend Wendie, you will always be in our hearts. We were friends through good times and bad and we will miss you terribly. Leslie and Alan
        RAVNER-Wendie. Our heartfelt sympathies to Harvey, Marc, Samantha and the families. Wendie was a brave lady throughout her battle. Donna and Philip
      