
        RUDIN-Lewis. The faculty and staff of the Center for Complementary and Integrative Medicine of Weill Medical College extend our heartfelt condolences to the family of Lewis Rudin. We thank Mr. Rudin for his generous support and his many years of service to our community. All New Yorkers will miss his vision for New York City. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Rudin family at this very difficult time. Mary Charlson, M.D., Exec Dir Mitchell Gaynor, M.D., Med Dir
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America, mourn the passing of Lewis Rudin. He was ever a ''Good Scout,'' from his early days at Ten Mile River Scout Camps, to his adulthood as a friend and sustainer of scouting and all of New York City. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Rudin family. John F. McGillicuddy, President Daniel R. Gasparo, Scout Executive
        RUDIN-Lewis. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns the loss of a friend whose generosity and dedication was felt in the Big Apple he loved. To his wife Rachel, his brother Jack, his children and the entire family, our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier President H. E. Archbishop Khajag Barsamian, Vice President Rev. Joseph O'Hare, S.J. Vice President
        RUDIN-Lewis. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Lew Rudin, a true friend to our company and role model for our industry. Lew's influence and friendship enriched us all and will inspire us to help continue his work of assuring New York City's position as the Capital of the World. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his family. Scott Rechler, Philip Waterman III Rechson Associates Realty Corp
        RUDIN-Lewis. We shall forever miss your comradery, wisdom, strength, leadership, guidance and love. As the sea that started our family, your spirit will live on in it forever. You were always there for us and we will always be there for your family, to whom we extend our deepest and sincerest condolences. Suzy and Kenny
        RUDIN-Lewis. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, an exemplary family member and great New Yorker. To Rachel, Jack, children and grandchildren we send our deepest sympathies. The Shubert Organization Gerald Schoenfeld, Chairman Philip Smith, President Robert Wankel, Exec. V.P. and its Board of Directors
        RUDIN-Lewis. Our Nation, our state, our city and most important, our family, have all been blessed by Lew's involvement in our lives. Our thoughts and affection for you, will always be reflected in our love for your entire family. Joan, Bob, Jamie, Steve, Laurie Tisch Sussman and Jonathan Tisch
      