
        STERN-Isaac. The New York Philharmonic deeply mourns the death of Maestro Isaac Stern-renowned violinist, master teacher, beloved colleague and dear friend. Mr. Stern's remarkable career, which spanned more than sixty years, was inextricably linked with the Philharmonic since his debut with the Orchestra in 1944 in a Sunday radio broadcast featuring the Sibelius Violin Concerto, led by Dimitri Mitropoulos. His solo appearances with the Philharmonic numbered more than 100, including the 1960 gala concert led by Leonard Bernstein to benefit Carnegie Hall after its rescue from demolition, an effort spearheaded by Mr. Stern. In 1980 the Philharmonic was honored to celebrate his 60th birthday with a televised concert featuring Mr. Stern as soloist as well as his protegees Pinchas Zukerman and Itzhak Perlman, evidence of the breadth of Mr. Stern's legacy. In 2000, musicians of the Philharmonic also participated in the joyful celebrations marking Mr. Stern's 80th birthday, as well as his 40th anniversary as president of Carnegie Hall. He had most recently appeared with the Orchestra in September 1998 as the special guest soloist for the Philharmonic's Opening Night Concert conducted by Kurt Masur. In recognition of his many decades of outstanding music, as well as his peeless efforts to advance music and its message throughout the world, in 1992 the New York Philharmonic named Mr. Stern an Honorary Member of the Society, the highest honor the organization bestows. From his devotion to saving and sustaining Carnegie Hall to his vital role in the establishment of the National Endowment for the Arts to his enthusiastic dedication to the education of young musicians, Mr. Stern set an exemplary standard for musicians and arts organizations everywhere. He will be greatly missed, but we are grateful for his music, his teaching, and his friendship, lasting legacies that will continue to enrich and instruct us all. The entire New York Philharmonic family-Board, Orchestra, and Administration-extends its heartfelt sympathies and warmest regards to his entire family. Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Zarin Mehta, Executive Director
        STERN-Isaac. The Board and staff of Carnegie Hall join the rest of the world in mourning the death of our beloved Isaac. The loss of Isaac Stern for Carnegie Hall is the loss of our musical family's beloved patriarch. Isaac Stern was a great violinist and musician as well as a great educator and communicator. First and foremost, he graced the stage of Carnegie Hall more than 200 times between 1943 and 2000. In the prime of his career, the 39-year-old Isaac Stern devoted himself to saving this building-not only for its acoustics but also for its legendary history and its centrality in the musical world. He persuaded the public sector to buy Carnegie Hall as a crown jewel of the City of New York and the private sector to operate and administer it as a non-profit institution. He has served Carnegie Hall as President of its Board from that first day in 1960 until his death, nurturing its growth for over four decades. For more than 60 years as a professional musician, he appeared on the world's most prestigious concert stages, guided the careers of countless young musicians and devoted himself to the advancement of the arts nationally and internationally. On a personal level, there was no one more stimulating, effervescent or generous in heart. Isaac Stern's indomitable spirit inspired us all and made us all better. If there is any solace to be found in his loss, it is in his extraordinary legacy-a legacy that forms the very foundation of Carnegie Hall today: an uncompromising artistic excellence, an abiding commitment to music education, and an adventuresome spirit that informs all we do. He dared to think big and challenged us to soar-to dream the impossible, take risks, embrace new ideas, and to enjoy our success. Sanford I. Weill, Chairman Robert Harth, Executive and Artistic Director
        STERN-Isaac. The Kennedy Center mourns the loss of Isaac Stern, one of the most extraordinary musicians of our time and a dear friend to the Center during its thirty year history. Mr. Stern played an integral role during the Kennedy Center's first year. We will always remember his exceptional skill as a solo violinist with the National Symphony Orchestra in the official opening of the Concert Hall on September 9th, 1971 & two nights later in the Inaugural Founding Artists Concert featuring the Istomin-Stern-Rose Trio, the first chamber music performance to be held in the Concert Hall. He performed with Mr. Eugene Istomin in the first benefit concert establishing the Abe Fortas Memorial Fund and the Fortas Chamber Music Series, and Mr. Stern's extensive contributions as a member of the Fortas Concerts Advisory Board have been essential to the success of the series. He was a treasured guest of the National Symphony Orchestra, making his debut with the NSO in 1949 at Constitution Hall, and he appears with the Orchestra in more than forty concerts. We were proud to recognize Mr. Stern as one of the recipients of the 1984 Kennecy Center Honors, and we will greatly miss his talents, wit, and warmth. James A. Johnson, Chairman Michael M. Kaiser, President The John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. Leonard Slatkin, Music Director The National Symphony Orchestra
        STERN-Isaac. With profound sadness, the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., mourn the passing of our great friend, musician, humanitarian and national treasure, Isaac Stern. During his more than 60 years on the world's concert stages he was an inspiration to audiences and to all who knew him. Through his leadership he redefined what it meant to be a musician. While he once described Carnegie Hall as ''an affirmation of the human spirit,'' he himself was the incarnation of the human spirit. His vision and energy had a profound impact on the cultural life of this great city, an impact that will be felt for generations to come. He led the fight to save Carnegie Hall confirming New York's position as the capital of the music world. Isaac paid no attention to obstacles in his life's many passions, in particular in his support of the State of Israel and to arts education. He touched countless lives; his legacy is immeasurable. Lincoln Center joins with Carnegie Hall and the global family of music makers and music lovers in mourning his loss. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Linda, his sister Eva Hornyak, his children Shira, Michael, and David, and to his grandchildren. Beverly Sills, Chairman Gordon J. Davis, President Jane S. Moss, VP, Programming Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        STERN-Isaac. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the passing of our dear friend, the renowned violinist, Isaac Stern, on Saturday, Sept 22nd in New York City at the age of 81. One of the last century's preeminent virtuosos, Mr. Stern's influence extended far beyond the concert stage. He was a cultural activist and educational mentor whose inspired stewardship of Carnegie Hall will be forever cherished. His acclaimed discography and his support as mentor to many of the world's leading concert artists will keep his memory alive for generations to come. His confidence in the arts as a positive force and his abiding affection for New York City will sustain us, especially at this time, as we rebuild our city and reinvigorate our national spirit. Isaac Stern will continue to inspire us. We extend to his wife, Linda, and to his entire family, our heartfelt condolences. Bruce A. Stevens, President Peter B. Goodrich, Vice President Concert and Artist Activities
        STERN-Isaac. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Isaac Stern, a towering figure in the classical music world. His untiring efforts to preserve Carnegie Hall in the face of imminent destruction earned our respect and everlasting gratitude, and his deep commitment to his art and his extraordinary gifts as a musician stand as a beacon to all of us. As President of Carnegie Hall, he exercised great influence over New York's musical life, and we are proud that in the years of his leadership, the MET Orchestra began a hugely successful collaboration with Carnegie Hall, giving to this day regular and immensely popular concerts in that great hall. We will sorely miss his inspiring presence and devotion to the cause of great music, but his legacy to our city and the world remains for future generations. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his family. Joseph Volpe, General Mgr. James Levine, Artistic Dir.
        STERN-Isaac. The Board and Staff of American Friends of the IPO and the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra mourn the passing of a great friend who shared the stage with us innumerable times over the years. His dedication to making great music and to fostering the development of young musicians the world over will always be remembered and we cherish the memory. Our heartfelt condolences to the Stern family. Zubin Mehta, Music Director for Life AFIPO Co-Chairman Itzhak Perlman, AFIPO Co-Chairman Albert Schussler, Pres. Emeritus Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Director Zeev Dorman, Chairman IPO Management Baruch Gross, IPO Management Gabriel Vole, IPO Management Avi Shoshani, IPO Secy General
        STERN-Isaac. Our deepest sympathy goes out to Isaac's family and his many friends and colleagues in the world of music. Isaac was a totally giving, loving and inspirational teacher to very, very many young musicians. We will miss him, in so many ways, that words cannot properly express. Isaac's leadership and unwavering determination to save Carnegie Hall and restore it to its original grandeur will never be forgotten. Thankfully, he and his music will live on through his legacies of Carnegie Hall and hundreds of superb recordings. John L. Tishman, and his many friends at Tishman Realty & Construction Co., Inc.
        STERN-Isaac. We are so sad as we mourn the death of Isaac Stern. He was truly great and his impact on the world of music will live on as his everlasting legacy. At a time when musicians were busy trying to dazzle, he insisted on something else, something better: a musical rule which demanded that technique be only in the service of the music. He helped to shape our lives by setting the standard for us to follow. He was a mentor who always had time for us, he was a true friend. The world will miss him, we will miss him. Our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Toby and Itzhak Perlman
        STERN-Isaac. The musicians, Board and staff of the Los Angeles Philharmonic mourn the loss of an American hero-Isaac Stern. A legendary musician, a courageous advocate and humanitarian, a true friend. He lived his life with an exuberance and dedication that truly changed our world. We shall miss him. Our deepest sympathies go out to his entire family and his colleagues at Carnegie Hall. Robert Weingarten, Chairman John Hotchkis, President Esa-Pekka Salonen, Music Dir. Deborah Borda, Managing Dir.
        STERN-Isaac. The entire Juilliard School community mourns the death of Isaac Stern. His artistry and humanity had an enormously positive impact, not only on the music profession, but on the whole world. With exuberance, creativity, optimism and determination he was a powerful force for good in all the areas that he touched. His presence will be irreplaceable, but his legacy is eternal. Bruce Kovner Chairman of the Board Joseph W. Polisi, President The Juilliard School
        STERN-Isaac. Manhattan School of Music grieves with the rest of the world the loss of a great artist and humanitarian. We are grateful for all he did to encourage and support the enrichment of so many young musicians. His example and legacy will continue to live and inspire us. Our personal heartfelt condolences to his family. We will deeply miss him. Marta Istomin, President Manhattan School of Music
        STERN-Isaac. The Philadelphia Orchestra expresses its deepest sympathies to the family and Carnegie Hall colleagues of Isaac Stern, who was for us not only one of the greatest artists of our time, but a special friend. Over many years of performing and recording together, we considered him one of us. Philadelphia Orchestra Family Wolfgang Sawallisch, Music Dir.
        STERN-Isaac. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of Isaac Stern, a great musician, humanitarian and a beloved friend of Jersualem. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire Stern family. Teddy Kollek, Int'l Chairman Ruth Cheshin, Int'l President William Ackman, Chairman, USA Sondra Rubin, Exec Dir, USA
        STERN-Isaac. The Board, Musicians and Administration of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center mourn the loss of Isaac Stern, a shining light in the world of chamber music, and an inspiration to all who cherish the arts. Donaldson C. Pillsbury, Chairman Peter Frelinghuysen, President David Shifrin, Artistic Director Norma Hurlburt, Exec. Director
        STERN-Isaac. Isaac was a dear and beloved friend whose extraordinarily generous spirit touched so many. We are among those who will forever remember his greatness. Our hearts go out to Linda and his family. Marilyn Horne Trustees and Staff The Marilyn Horne Foundation
        STERN-Isaac. The Curtis Institute of Music and its students feel deeply the loss of Isaac Stern, wonderful artist, great humanitarian, dear friend, and send deepest sympathy to his family. Shaun O'Malley Chairman of the Board Gary Graffman, President The Curtis Institute of Music
        STERN-Isaac. Your guidance, sensitivity and concern, particularly for the young artists of the world, your vision and steadfastness for Carnegie Hall and your friendship has inspired us for many years. We shall miss you but you will always be in our hearts. Jean and Ralph Baruch
        STERN-Isaac. Itzhak and Toby Perlman, the Board of Directors, faculty and staff and students of The Perlman Music Program honor Isaac Stern, mentor and friend to us and to the world of music. His profound contributions have so positively affected the times in which we live.
        STERN-Isaac. Samuel Johnson, ''had I learned to fiddle, I should have done nothing else.'' How fortunate for all that Isaac Stern also became such a great humanitarian. He will be sorely missed, but remembered always. Dinny and Lester Morse
        STERN-Isaac. We mourn the passing of a great musician and good friend. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his wife, Linda, and his family. David Foster Lee Lamont, Byron Gustafson and the Staff of ICM Artists, Ltd
        STERN-Isaac. To the Stern family with heartfelt empathy. The world is now also mourning the passing of a great musician, humanitarian and proponent of arts education. I am crying at the loss of a friend. Bella Linden
        STERN-Isaac. Beloved friend and inspired leader in the arts who enriched the lives of millions with his musical genius and exemplary leadership and courage. Senator & Mrs. Roy M. Goodman
        STERN-Isaac. I grieve at the passing of a great human being and ultimate musician and a friend. My heart goes out to his wife, Linda, and the entire family. Lee Lamont
        STERN-Isaac. The members of the Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Isaac Stern, and send condolences to his family.
        STERN-Isaac. Our families mourn the loss of a friend, and the world mourns the loss of a great musician and humanitarian. The Weiler and Arnow Families
      