
        McGUINN-Francis Noel. Of Rye, New York, died tragically and without cause on September 11, 2001, at One World Trade Center. Mr. McGuinn worked for Cantor Fitzgerald on the 105th floor as the Managing Director of Emerging Markets. Mr. McGuinn was born to Edwin John (deceased) and Vera Sheehan McGuinn on Christmas Day, 1952. Born in Brooklyn, his family moved to Rye in the 1960's where they sent their children to Resurrection School. Mr. McGuinn attended Iona Prep High School where he developed and nurtured his love of history and the teachings of the Jesuits. He went on to receive an undergraduate degree in business from Fairfield University and then to accomplish his MBA at Iona College in New Rochelle, New York. Mr. McGuinn's career on Wall Street spanned over 20 dedicated years including the companies of Chapdelaine Corporate Securities, Garban/Intercapital and then onto Cantor Fitzgerald. At Cantor, he managed a desk of 50 dedicated traders for Emerging Markets while developing an electronic trading platform for Emerging Markets for Cantor's E-Speed Company. Mr. McGuinn took an active and lively interest in many charities, including The Catholic Sisters of Charity, Hale House, The American Red Cross and The Foundation for Cancer Research to name a few. He was a member of Westchester Country Club in Rye, New York, The New York Athletic Club and The Fairfield University President's Circle. Mr. McGuinn will forever be remembered for his incredible sense of clarity and purpose and for his tremendous capacity to love and embrace those that came into his life. His loving wife, Lynn Sofia McGuinn of Rye and three daughters Danielle, Elizabeth and Carolyne survive him. Siblings are Edwin J. McGuinn of Greenwich, Tracy McGuinn Donovan & Trish McGuinn Lawrence both of Westport, Connecticut. Services will be held at Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Post Road, Rye, New York, from 9 AM to 11 AM, Tuesday, September 18th. Immediately following there will be a Memorial Mass at the Church of the Resurrection at noon. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that donations be made to the Frank McGuinn Memorial Scholarship Fund/Resurrection Grammar School, Rye, N.Y. 10580.
      