
        KIRWIN-Glenn. Taken from us suddenly on September 11, 2001, in the World Trade Center tragedy. He was a loving husband to Joan, a wonderful father to Miles and Troy, a cherished son of Barbara and Paul, an adored brother of Jon, Peter, Andrew, Daniel and Jennifer, a devoted son-in-law to Sara Oyster and G. Stewart and Jan Boswell, a treasured brotherin-law to Bernadette and Romy Kirwin, Stewart M. and Gay Bos well, and Margaret Surbaugh, a beloved uncle to Brooke Kirwin, Sara and Katherine Surbaugh, James, Saxon and Lucy Boswell and friend to many. Glenn was a Partner at Cantor Fitzgerald, and a Senior-Vice President of eSpeed. He was the light in our lives and he will always be in our hearts. A me morial service was held on Monday, September 17, 2001, at the Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck, Rd., Scarsdale, NY. Donations may be made to The Cantor Fitzgerald Foundation, 101 Park Ave., 45th Floor, NY, NY 10178-0060, Attn: Phil Ginsberg or the Macular De generation Foundation, P.O. box 8752, San Jose, CA 95157.
        KIRWIN-Glenn. September 11, 2001. The entire board, staff and teachers of Kids' B.A.S.E. & The Little School send deepest sympathies to the Kirwin family on the tragic and untimely loss of Glenn. Our thoughts are with you and we pray for your courage, strength and healing in the weeks ahead. Cheryl Milstein, President Melissa Begg, Vice President Beverly McAllister, Executive Dir.
        KIRWIN-Glenn. September 11, 2001. Our heartfelt thoughts and prayers are with the entire Kirwin family who mourn the devastating loss of a wonderful and loving husband, father and son. Glenn's memory will never be lost from the hearts of those lives he had touched. Cheryl and Philip
        KIRWIN-Glenn. A singular man, a compassionate and trustworthy friend. Like so many others, tragically, gone too soon. Together with his friends and relatives we grieve his loss and those of the others, within and without our community, who have fallen victim to this senseless inhumanity. Alzheimer's Assn, NYC Chapter
        KIRWIN-Glenn. Glenn was an example of all that is good in mankind and his life was cruelly taken by terrorists who are examples of all that is evil. You were the best father and husband to Miles, Troy and Joan. We miss you. Ba and Pa
        KIRWIN-Glenn. You were everything to us and the strength of our family. We will keep our love for you in our hearts forever. We love you, Daddy. Joan, Miles and Troy
        KIRWIN-Glenn. On Tuesday, September 11, 2001, our circle was broken. We will never be the same. Jon, Peter, Andrew, Daniel and Jennifer
      