
        SIMON-Michael John. Born July 27, 1961 to the late Charles and Peggyann Simon of Rye, NY has tragically passed to his eternal rest on September 11, 2001. His wife, Eileen (nee Isacsen), their children, Brittany Radcliffe, Michael John, Jr., and Tyler Ingram have been robbed of a devoted husband and loving father. Family and friends will grievously mourn this supportive, moral man of great character. Growing up in Rye, NY, Michael graduated in 1979 from Rye County Day School. He then attained a degree from Hobart College in Economics and Religion. He was an outstanding athlete in ice hockey, lacrosse, tennis and golf. Michael also completed a cross-country bicycling trip from Seattle, WA to Geneva, NY. Michael continued his love of athletics through coaching his children's teams in soccer, softball and baseball in Harrington Park. He never missed a game or a school function. Michael also leaves behind a brother, Scott (Margaret) Simon, sisters Christine Coats, Kathleen and Patricia Simon and brother-in-law E. Craig Coats. His in-laws Barbara and James Romaine, Cathleen and Robert Isacsen, as well as Kristen and Christopher Klass, Elise and Spiros Polikateros, Bridget and Robert DiMartini, Kathryn Isacsen, James and Fiona Romaine and Lenore and Mark Goley also survive him. His parents as well as his brother-in-law Scott Romaine have predeceased him. Michael leaves behind twenty-two adoring and devastated nieces, nephews and grieving aunts and uncles, Mary Ellen and Martin White and Madeleine and Bill Becker. The whole community of Harrington Park, his Wall Street business associates and clients will surely miss Michael. The premature loss of such a wonderful individual so loved and respected by all that knew him is society's loss. A memorial service will be held at Saint Mary's Roman Catholic Church in Closter, NJ at 1:30PM Saturday September 22nd. In lieu of flowers a special fund in remembrance of Michael has been established for his three children. Please send donations to: College Bound Fund, C/O Scott Simon, 95 Ferris Hill Road, New Canaan, CT. 06840.
      