
        RUDIN-Lewis, 74 years old of New York City, co-chairman of Rudin Management Company, Inc. and Chairman of the Association for a Better New York. Died peacefully Thursday, September 20, 2001 in his home, surrounded by his loving family after courageously battling cancer. He was a great and special man who will be missed by his family, so many friends and the city he loved. We loved him dearly. He is survived by his adoring wife, Rachel, his brother, Jack, his children, Beth Rudin DeWoody, William Rudin and his wife, Ophelia, grandchildren, Carlton, Samantha, Kyle and Michael, nieces, nephews, grand nephews and cousins. Services will be held Sunday, September 23 at 10 A.M. at Central Synagogue, Lexington Avenue at 55th Street. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to: Central Synagogue, 123 East 55th Street, NY, NY 10022, 212-838-5122; Twin Towers Fund, P.O. Box 26999, General Post Office, NY, NY 10087; The Fund for Ophthalmic Knowledge, Inc. C/O Dr. David Abramson, 101 Central Park West, NY, NY 10023, 212744-1700; the Weill Cornell Center for Complementary and Integrative Medicine, C/O Dr. Mitchell Gaynor, 428 East 72nd Street, Suite 100, NY, NY 10021, 212-746-1330; The First Tee, The World Golf Village, 425 South Legacy Trail, St. Augustine, FL 32092, 904-940-4300; The ABNY Foundation, c/o Maggie Brown, 355 Lexington Ave., New York, NY 10017, 212-370-5800.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Trustees, Medical Staff, Management and the entire Lenox Hill Hospital family express their profound sorrow at the loss of Lewis Rudin, who served with distinction as an active Trustee of Lenox Hill Hospital for over 27 years. His energetic leadership in an impressive array of civic, educational and outstanding philanthropic endeavors and his dedication to creating a better New York made him a unique citizen, and he brought these rich experiences to his role as a Trustee of Lenox Hill Hospital. His personal generosity and the generosity of the Rudin family to our Hospital have enabled us to improve our community's access to health care, to train young physicians and to develop innovative programs. His commitment to better health care for all New Yorkers, his sound judgment, wise counsel, and enduring loyalty, were highly valued by everyone here who had the privilege of working with him. Lew Rudin truly exemplified the spirit of our great city. The entire Lenox Hill Hospital family honors the memory of this exceptional man and we extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Rachel, his children William and Beth, his brother Jack and his entire family. James S. Marcus, Chairman Board of Trustees Gladys George President and Chief Executive Officer Allen H. Collins, M.D. President, Medical Board
        RUDIN-Lewis. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend Lewis Rudin. A real estate magnate and beloved philanthropist, we will always remember his extraordinary generosity, larger than life personality, and aweinspiring leadership. As a leader of his family's real estate business, Mr. Rudin demonstrated his family's unwavering commitment to the Jewish community. His compassion and support helped sustain UJA-Federation's diverse network of health and human service agencies. He served on the Capital Campaign Steering Committee. He was a member-at-large of the Jewish Community Relations Council of North America and a member of the Hebrew Free Loan Society. He was also an outspoken activist in the fight against hate crimes and anti-Semitism. In both business and philanthropy, Mr. Rudin's selfless dedication has served as a guiding light to us all. His legacy will be felt by generations to come. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Rachel; to his brother, Jack, and sister-in-law, Susan; to his children, Beth Rudin DeWoody and Bill Rudin; to his grandchildren; and to his entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        RUDIN-Lewis. The New York University Community deeply mourns the death of our dear friend and benefactor, Lewis Rudin. He exemplified the best characteristics of the city he so dearly loved: energy, self-assurance, humor, toughness and generosity. A son of the city, an alumnus and trustee of NYU, his unwavering belief in the greatness of both inspired others around him. Whether as a real estate developer, as a chairman of ABNY, as a philanthropist or as a trustee of NYU, Lew Rudin always kept his beloved NYC at the heart of his commitments, activities and philanthropy. Perhaps it is a blessing that he was spared the agony of seeing the city he loved so much suffer such a devasting attack. But we have no doubt that his reaction would be typical of Lew, and we can hear him say loud and clear: (let no enemy shake our faith in ourselves and the greatness of our city. Let us rebuild and make our city even greater than before.) NYU shares the philosphy, and will do everything in its power to make certain that Lewis Rudin's efforts and dreams will not have been in vain. L. Jay Oliva, Pres. Martin Lipton, Chairman NYU Board of Trustees
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Governors, Members and Staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Lewis Rudin, a giant in our industry and one of New York's prominent civic and philanthropic leaders. Lew was instrumental in helping the city avoid bankruptcy in the mid-1970s by convincing businesses to prepay real estate taxes. In the 1980s, Lew led the fight to preserve the deductibility of state and local taxes. Lew's love of New York was evident in the boundless energy he devoted in promoting the city and his unswerving belief in its future. Lew was a founder and chairman of the Association for a Better New York and directed other initiatives such as providing bullet-proof vests for New York's police department. Lew was a tireless supporter of many charitable and philanthropic endeavors which enriched the lives of many New Yorkers. We express our sympathy to his wife Rachel, brother Jack, his children Beth and William, grandchildren, and the entire Rudin family. Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Trustees and staff of the American Museum of Natural History are deeply saddened by the death of Lewis Rudin, a man for all seasons who was indeed ''a true New Yorker''-forward thinking, energetic, optimistic, generous, humane, and deeply passionate about life in this City. The Rudin family has long played an integral role in the development of this great City and its cultural vitality, and we are deeply grateful for all that the Rudin family has done to support and extend the reach and vision of its great public institutions. On behalf of the Museum, we extend our deepest sympathies and affection to Lewis's wife, Rachel; his children, Billy and Beth and their families; and to the entire Rudin family. Our love and thoughts are especially with the Lewis's dearly loved brother and our esteemed Honorary Trustee, Jack Rudin. New York has lost one more hero. Lewis W. Bernard, Chairman Ellen V. Futter, President American Museum of Natural History
        RUDIN-Lewis. All of Lincoln Center mourns the loss of one of its most beloved patrons and one of our city's most valiant and tireless leaders. A dedicated and longstanding member of the board of Lincoln Center Theater and the heart and soul of the Association for a Better New York and of New York City, Lewis with his brother Jack led one of our City's most philanthropic and civic-minded families. He was generous, fun loving, tough in the face of adversity, and always there if you needed a hand. We all loved him. We will all miss him. Our deepest sympathy to his brother Jack and to his wife Rachel, daughter Beth and son Bill. Beverly Sills, Chairman Gordon J. Davis, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The leadership and staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center extend their condolences to the family of Lewis Rudin and to our friend and colleague, Jack Rudin. Lew made extraordinary contributions to the civic life of this city through the founding of the Association for a Better New York, his service to a host of other New York institutions, and his commitment to philanthropy. Lew, along with Jack, made us members of their extended family. We will miss him. Laurance S. Rockefeller James D. Robinson III Douglas A. Warner III Richard I. Beattie Louis V. Gerstner, Jr. Harold E. Varmus Boards of Overseers & Managers Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater grieve the death of our beloved and greatly admired Trustee, a founding member of the Board when the theater was reestablished in 1984. Lew believed so deeply that this theater was crucial to the cultural and theatrical life of the city. He was ardent in his support as he was in his extraordinary love for and devotion to New York. We extend our profound sympathy to Rachel, Beth, Bill, Jack and the grandchildren. Linda LeRoy Janklow Chairman John S. Chalsty President Andre Bishop Artistic Director Bernard Gersten Executive Producer
        RUDIN-Lewis. Howard J. Rubenstein and Rubenstein Associates, Inc. mourn the passing of our dear friend, esteemed colleague, and long-standing client, Lewis Rudin. Lew epitomized all that is great about New York City. A real estate developer by profession, Lew was also a builder of spirits through the Association for a Better New York. He worked tirelessly to promote New York City as the best place to live and work, while always extolling the City's strengths and future. Lew's philanthropy through the May and Samuel Rudin Family Foundation is renowned, and his legacy will be remembered by not-for-profit organizations for generations to come. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family.
        RUDIN-Lou. We are deeply distressed at the passing of a friend that has been dear to us for many decades. Lou Rudin was truly a leader, not only as one of the city's most successful owners, but even more importantly for all of us, as the giving, creative, and insightful initiator and supporter of the Association For A Better New York. Lou's generosity and his untiring and successful efforts to reawaken our slumbering city brought us all together and created magnitudinous benefits for every component of the city's complex and multifaceted population. Lou, we hope your efforts and ideas willnever be forgotten. We will miss you. Your Friends at GVA Williams
        RUDIN-Lewis. Central Synagogue mourns Lewis Rudin, great member, loyal and devoted supporter, and a kind and gentle soul. Lew Rudin has stood with us through the heights of celebration and dispair of tragedy. He took the lead in our time of need and blessed us with his kindness and generous spirit. We are mindful of his family who has surrounded him with love and goodness and who has been by his side during his last difficult battle for his life and his prepration for death. As always, he did what he needed to do with courage and fortitude. He will be missed by us all. May his memory be a blessing. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Officers, Board and staff of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York mourn the passing of our beloved and distinguished Member and benefactor. As ''Mr. New York,'' his lifetime of contributions to the city, state and nation and to the Jewish community will long be remembered. His wise counsel will be missed. May his wife Rachel, brother Jack, daughter Beth Rudin DeWoody, son William and daughter-in-law Ophelia, and grandchildren Carlton and Kyle DeWoody and Samantha and Michael Rudin be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ezra G. Levin, President Michael S. Miller, Executive V.P.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Benenson Capital Company mourns the loss of our distinguished friend, Lewis Rudin. We will miss his intelligence, leadership and wit. We have fifty years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a man who was greatly dedicated to his family, business, philanthropy and especially New York City. Those of us who know how special he was share the sense of loss with his family, friends, and associates. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Rudin family and New York City. Charles B. Benenson Lawrence B. Benenson Richard A. Kessler James E. Stifel
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the sudden passing of our dear friend Lewis Rudin. Along with his brother Jack, Lew was dedicated to furthering the mission of ADL and did so through the generous support of the Rudin Foundation. A proud American, an active member of the Jewish community, Lew was a champion of decency and freedom. We will miss him. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Rachel, his children Bill and Beth, Jack and Susan, and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        RUDIN-Lewis. Jazz at Lincoln Center is deeply saddened at the death of Lewis Rudin, brother of our beloved vice chairman Jack Rudin. Lewis Rudin embodied the strength, vigor and spirit of our city. Like his brother Jack, he had a huge heart, and his abounding generosity enriched the city and its citizens. We extend our sincere sympathy to Jack and Susan, and to Lewis' family Rachel, Bill and Beth. R. Theodore Ammon, chairman Wynton Marsalis, artistic director Bruce MacCombie, exec director And the board of directors, staff and artists of Jazz at Lincoln Center
        RUDIN-Lewis. Lew Rudin loved New York City, and joined with his family to build at the crossroads of the world, because he embraced the reinvention of 42nd Street as a symbol of the resilience, tenacity and aspiration of this great city of his. Everyone at The New 42nd Street, The New Victory Theater, and New 42nd Street Studios send their heartfelt condolences to Rachel, Beth, Bill, Jack and all the members of Lew's dear family. Marian S. Heiskell, Chairman Cora Cahan, President The Board of Directors and the Staff of The New 42nd Street
        RUDIN-Lewis. On behalf of the board and staff of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, we express our most sincere condolences to our longtime board member, advocate and dear, dear friend, Beth Rudin DeWoody on the passing of her father, Lewis Rudin, a great New Yorker and supporter of the arts. Karen Brooks Hopkins, President Joseph V. Melillo, Exec. Producer Harvey Lichtenstein, President Emeritus Bruce C. Ratner, Chairman Alan H. Fishman, Vice Chairman
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Lewis Rudin, a lifelong philantropist committed to Judaism and Jewish causes and devoted supporter of JTS. Together with his brother, Jack, since 1997, he has sponsored the semiannual Jack and Lewis Rudin Lecture series to bring imminent scholars, spiritual leaders, intellectuals and public figures to JTS. May his memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Chairman
        RUDIN-Lewis. We are saddened by the death of Lew Rudin, a colleague and friend of over a quarter of a century. Our ties were forged in the mid 1970's as together we struggled in helping New York City emerge from its fiscal crisis. Over the years, his support of his beloved city and its institutions has been a model for all those wanting to give back to the city that has offered them so many opportunities. He will be missed deeply. Jack Bigel, President Program Planners, Inc.
        RUDIN-Lew. On behalf of NYC & Company's Officers, Executive Committee, Board of Directors and membership, we note with deep sorrow the passing of our member and great friend. Lew personified all that is good, smart, and caring about New York City. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Rachel, brother Jack, his children Beth and Bill and their families. Tim Zagat Chairman Christyne L. Nicholas President and CEO
        RUDIN-Lewis. The directors, staff and residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of a great New Yorker, Lewis Rudin, a wise and generous friend, whose daughter, Beth Rudin DeWoody, has long served on our board. From our earliest days, Lew Rudin supported Phoenix House, recognizing the value of our work and the ways in which it strengthened the City he so loved. Edward D. Miller, Chairman Mitchell S. Rosenthal, M.D., President
        RUDIN-Lewis. Lewis Rudin was a longtime friend and supporter of North General Hospital and the Harlem community. On behalf of our Board of Trustees and staff, we extend our most sincere condolences to his family. His leadership and generosity serve as an inspiration to all New Yorkers. Richard Eaddy, Chairman, Board of Trustees Samuel J. Daniel, M.D. President & CEO North General Hospital
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board and staff of Lighthouse International notes with sorrow the passing of Honorary Board Member, Lew Rudin. A passionate advocate for New York and its causes, Lew has been a longtime friend of the Lighthouse. He will be missed. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his family. William B. Follett, Chairman of the Board Barbara Silverstone, President and CEO
        RUDIN-Lewis. The partners and staff of Goldfarb & Fleece mourn with deep sadness the passing of Lewis Rudin, a beloved friend and valued client who was an inspiration to us all. His warmth, wisdom, friendship and respect for all will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to Rachel, Beth, Bill, Ophelia, Carlton, Samantha, Kyle, Michael, Jack, Susan, Eric, Fiona, Madeleine, Bruce, Kate, Nancy, Grant and Sam.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Lewis Rudin on September 20, 2001. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held at Central Synagogue, 123 East 55th Street, New York, Sunday, September 23 at 10 AM. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec. Dir.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the loss of Lewis Rudin, esteemed Board member since 1974. His abiding love for the city of New York and vision of Carnegie Hall as a beacon within it, infused his work on the Board. His commitment to civic leadership was an inspiration to all who knew him. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to his children Beth and Bill and to the rest of the Rudin family.
        RUDIN-Lewis. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Lewis Rudin, a giant in the real estate industry and founder and chairman of the Association for a Better New York. Mr. Rudin helped establish New York as the great city it is and his leadership will be long remembered. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the Rudin family during this difficult time. Newmark & Company Real Estate Inc
        RUDIN-Lewis. His admirers, colleagues and dear friends at Rose Associates mourn the loss of Lewis Rudin. For three generations, the Rudins and the Roses have had the warmest of relationships, sharing charitable, personal and professional concern for decades, and we shall miss Lew profoundly. To his brother Jack, his wife Rachel, and his children Bill and Beth, all the Roses send our most heartfelt condolences.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The staff and families of Rudin Management Company express our deep sorrow and condolences to the entire Rudin family for the passing of our beloved Lewis. Lewis was a visionary and a great man and we are all blessed to have him as our leader, mentor and friend. His spirit lives on in all that we do and we commit ourselves to help rebuild his town in his name.
        RUDIN-Lewis. We join in loving and mourning for good friend, dear Lew, champion of New York City, State and the Nation, and particularly City University, his father's alma mater. Condolences to his brother Jack who is also CUNY's very special friend. Friends of CUNY Roscoe C. Brown, Jr. Chairman Julius C. C. Edelstein, Chairman Emeritus
        RUDIN-Lewis. ABNY, the Association for a Better New York, has lost our beloved Chairman; our business community has lost a great leader; and our City has lost a precious piece of its heart. We mourn with and reachout to the Rudin family and the City he so loved and served. Mary Holloway, Exec Director and the Staff of ABNY
        RUDIN-Lewis. Our hearts are broken over the loss of this dynamic, generous, caring, unique man. His presence on this earth has had a tremendous effect on all of us who have had the pleasure and privilege of calling him a friend. Our hearts go out to Rachel and all the other members of his family at this very, very sad time. Gwen and Lester Fisher
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Partners and Staff of Milton N. Hoffman Co. are deeply saddened by the passing of a wonderful, kind and caring friend and associate. His leadership and guidance will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Rachel and his family.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Lewis Rudin, and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. A loss to all who loved him. He was a unique man-giant of wisdom, vision, compassion and affection. A part of our heart has gone with him. May he rest in peace. The Keating Family
        RUDIN-Lewis. Words cannot convey our sense of loss upon the passing of our very dear friend, a man who was clearly one of the great icons of ''his town'', New York. Karen and Martin Berger
        RUDIN-Lewis. Dear Lew, we loved you and will miss you. Our hearts go out to the entire Rudin family for their great loss. Love, Hermine, Sidney, Andrew, Michelle, Nicole and David
        RUDIN-Lewis. Forever ''Mr. New York'' in our hearts. Sally, Iris, Jay, Karen and Michael Goodgold
      