
        RUDIN-Lewis. The staff and trustees of The Parrish Art Museum are deeply saddened by the passing of Lewis Rudin, a dedicated philanthropist whose interests and reach were broad and deep. His steadfast and long standing support in education and community service has benefited so many institutions wherever he resided. We send our condolences to his family who share his devotion to community and public service. Mildred C. Brinn, Chairman of the Board Trudy C. Kramer, Director The Parrish Art Museum
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board and staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Lewis Rudin, esteemed member of the New York City community, farsighted philanthropist and devoted supporter of the Y. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Rachel, daughter, Beth Rudin DeWoody, son, William C. Rudin, brother, Jack, his grandchildren, and the entire Rudin family. As his life was a blessing, so may his memory be as well. Matthew Bronfman, President Philip Milstein, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        RUDIN-LEWIS. The Cathedral of St. John the Divine extends condolences to his brother Jack and the entire Rudin family. Lew Rudin was a man of strong belief whose friendship with this Cathedral, the Episcopal Diocese of New York, and religious leaders of many faiths helped bolster a spirit of understanding and cooperation throughout our great city. He was a source of inspiration and will be missed. The Rt. Rev. Mark S. Sisk, Bishop of New York
        RUDIN-Lewis. The City College Fund expresses its deepest sympathy to his brother, Jack, and his family. Their contributions to The City College of New York and their interest in higher education have made a major difference in many lives. He will be missed by all of us. Stanley H. Kaplan, Chair Herbert Robinson, President James L. Schatz, Executive Director
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Guggenheim Museum's International Director's Council wishes to express its condolences to fellow member Rachel on the passing of her husband Lewis. The Rudin family's generosity has touched so many New York institutions. Our deepest sympathy to the family. Dakis Joannou, Chairman and Members of the International Director's Council
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum mourn the passing of Lewis Rudin, our generous and long-standing supporter. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Rachel Rudin, his brother Jack Rudin, his daughter Beth Rudin DeWoody, and the entire Rudin family.
        RUDIN-Lewis. Another pillar of our community is gone, but has left his mark forever. Friend and colleague in many endeavors, he was always ready to help a worthy cause. Our deepest sympathy to his family. The Weiler and Arnow Families
      