
        WYNNE-Kenneth Jr. Age 78 of Vero Beach, FL, and formerly of Hamden, CT and Mantoloking, NJ died September 16, 2001 after a prolonged illness. He was the husband of the late Patricia FitzGerald Wynne. Mr. Wynne was born in New Haven, CT and was the son of the late Judge Kenneth Wynne, a former Chief Justice of the Connecticut Supreme Court, and the late Mary Fielding Wynne. He was President of Venice Amusement Corporation that owns and operates the Casino Pier and Water Works in Seaside Heights, NJ from 1959 to 1987 when he retired. Mr. Wynne is a Past President of the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions and continued to serve on the Associations's Board of Directors until his death. He was also a Past President of the New Jersey Amusement Association and the Seaside Heights Businessmen's Association. Recognized as one of the people responsible for the importation of spectacular European amusement rides into the United States, Mr. Wynne was considered a pioneer in the Amusement Industry. Prior to his involvement in the amusement business, Mr. Wynne was a staff reporter for the Bridgeport, CT Herald. Secretary of the CT Bar Association, and served as Executive Secretary to former Connecticut Governor Chester Bowles. He was also a Director and Producer for WNHC Television in New Haven, CT. Mr. Wynne was a member of the Quinnipiack Club and Mory's Association in New Haven, CT. and the Moorings Club of Vero Beach. He attended Hopkins Grammar School in New Haven, CT. and graduated from St. John's School in Danvers, MA. Mr. Wynne was a 1948 graduate of Trinity College in Hartford, CT. where he was a member of the US Navy V-12 Program. He served on active duty with the US Navy in World War II and was honorably discharged after which he completed his college degree. Mr. Wynne is survived by his four children: Deborah Wynne Stockton (Robert), Kenneth Wynne III (Allyson) both of Vero Beach, FL ; Patricia Wynne Dayton (Richard) of Fair Oaks, CA; and John F. Wynne (Susan) of Pt. Pleasant Beach, NJ. He is also survived by six grandchildren: Natalie Lewis Dougherty of Hoboken, NJ; John R. Lewis, Jr. of New York, NY; Draper Dayton and Kenneth Dayton of Fair Oaks, CA; Patricia Ellen Wynne of Pt. Pleasant, NJ ; and Jesse Carano of Dahlgren, VA. Also survived by one brother and four sisters: John Wynne, Branford, CT; Barbara Secor, Southbury, CT; Betsy Wynne, Branford, CT; Mary Bohonnon, Guilford, CT; and Louise Gigon, Wethersfield, CT. For information Sisk Brothers Funeral Home, 3105 Whitney Avenue, Hamden, CT. Friends may call Friday, September 28th from 4-8 PM. Mass of Christian Burial will be held Saturday, September 29th at 11:30 AM in Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church, Whitney Ave., Hamden, CT. Burial will follow in St. Mary's Cemetery, Mount Carmel, CT. In Mr. Wynne's memory, memorial donations may be made to Give Kids the World, 210 Bass Road, Kissimmee, FL 34746.
      