
        STERN-Isaac. With profound sadness, the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., mourn the passing of our great friend, musician, humanitarian and national treasure, Isaac Stern. During his more than 60 years on the world's concert stages he was an inspiration to audiences and to all who knew him. Through his leadership he redefined what it meant to be a musician. While he once described Carnegie Hall as ''an affirmation of the human spirit,'' he himself was the incarnation of the human spirit. His vision and energy had a profound impact on the cultural life of this great city, an impact that will be felt for generations to come. He led the fight to save Carnegie Hall confirming New York's position as the capital of the music world. Isaac paid no attention to obstacles in his life's many passions, in particular in his support of the State of Israel and to arts education. He touched countless lives; his legacy is immeasurable. Lincoln Center joins with Carnegie Hall and the global family of music makers and music lovers in mourning his loss. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Linda, his sister Eva Hornyak, his children Shira, Michael, and David, and to his grandchildren. Beverly Sills, Chairman Gordon J. Davis, President Jane S. Moss, VP, Programming Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        STERN-Isaac. We are so sad as we mourn the death of Isaac Stern. He was truly great and his impact on the world of music will live on as his everlasting legacy. At a time when musicians were busy trying to dazzle, he insisted on something else, something better: a musical rule which demanded that technique be only in the service of the music. He helped to shape our lives by setting the standard for us to follow. He was a mentor who always had time for us, he was a true friend. The world will miss him, we will miss him. Our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Toby and Itzhak Perlman
        STERN-Isaac. The Minnesota Orchestra family joins other friends and close colleagues of Isaac Stern in extending heartfelt condolences to his family. Nothing but music could stand as a proper tribute to this great man. In sorrow at his death and in gratitude for his life, the Minnesota Orchestra dedicates the concerts of September 28 and 29 to his beloved memory. David J. Hyslop, President Minnesota Orchestra
        STERN-Isaac. We mourn the loss of an exceptional artist who has inspired us with his artistry and integrity and shared his wisdom with his Chinese colleagues. We are grateful for his support of the Center for US-China Arts Exchange at Columbia University and his contribution to cultural interaction throughout the world. Chou Wen-Chung
        STERN-Isaac. Itzhak and Toby Perlman, the Board of Directors, faculty and staff and students of The Perlman Music Program honor Isaac Stern, mentor and friend to us and to the world of music. His profound contributions have so positively affected the times in which we live.
        STERN-Isaac. Samuel Johnson, ''had I learned to fiddle, I should have done nothing else.'' How fortunate for all that Isaac Stern also became such a great humanitarian. He will be sorely missed, but remembered always. Dinny and Lester Morse
        STERN-Isaac. We mourn the passing of a great musician and good friend. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his wife, Linda, and his family. David Foster Lee Lamont, Byron Gustafson and the Staff of ICM Artists, Ltd
        STERN-Isaac. To the Stern family with heartfelt empathy. The world is now also mourning the passing of a great musician, humanitarian and proponent of arts education. I am crying at the loss of a friend. Bella Linden
        STERN-Isaac. The spirits of Adele and Paul join Diane/James and me in saluting the consummate artistry of our beloved Isaac. Love to the family. Jack deSimone, Tuscon, Arizona
        STERN-Isaac. I grieve at the passing of a great human being and ultimate musician and a friend. My heart goes out to his wife, Linda, and the entire family. Lee Lamont
        STERN-Isaac. Our families mourn the loss of a friend, and the world mourns the loss of a great musician and humanitarian. The Weiler and Arnow Families
      