
        WATTS-Charles Henry II. September 27, 2001; Freedom, NH. Charles H. Watts II of Freedom, New Hampshire and Boston, Massachusetts, died unexpectedly of a heart attack yesterday at his farm in New Hampshire. He was the beloved husband of Patricia McQuillen Watts. Born in 1926 in Bronxville, New York, Mr. Watts was the only child of Charles H. and Mabel L. Watts. He married Patricia Dorothy McQuillen, also of Bronxville, in 1951. After completing his Ph.D. in American Literature at Brown University in 1953, he became an Assistant Professor of English at Brown and was later named Dean of the College. In 1963, at the age of 37, he was named President of Bucknell University in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, where he served for twelve years, leading the school through an important period of change and growth. Following his time at Bucknell, Mr. Watts returned to Brown University to help launch a major capital campaign. He then joined Beneficial Financial Corporation (later acquired by Household Finance) in the position of General Director. Mr. Watts, whose father, Charles H. Watts, was one of Beneficial's original founders, was also a member of the Beneficial Board from 1959 until 1998. He received honorary degrees from Franklin College (D.Lit., 1965), Dickenson School of Law (L.L.D., 1968), Alderson Broaddus College (H.H.D., 1969), Brown University (L.L.D., 1975), and Bucknell University (L.H.D., 1979). Throughout his career, Mr. Watts served on numerous academic, corporate and civic boards. He was a member of the board of the Riverdale School (1959-1974), Bucknell University (1964-1976), the Peddie School (1971-1985), and St. John's College (1976-present). He was also an active board member of the John Carter Brown Library at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. In addition to the library, he was deeply committed to Trinity Church, in Boston, and the Society for the Preservation of New Hampshire Forests in Concord, New Hampshire. Mr. Watts was an avid conservationist throughout his life and worked with both the Audubon and New Hampshire Forest societies to preserve the natural environment in New Hampshire. Mr. Watts and his wife opened High Meadow Farms, in Freedom, New Hampshire, in the mid-fifties with the late Percy Taylor, also of Freedom. The farm, which operated commercially for nearly forty years, sold eggs, apples, wood and hay. Mr. Watts is survived by his wife, Patricia, and their three children: Katharine L. Watts and her son Cooper; Caroline W. Collins and her husband Peter and their children Dylan and Abigail; Charles H. Watts III and his wife Holly and their children Samuel, Isabel, and Isaac. Services will be held at Trinity Church, in Boston, on Wednesday, October 3, 2001, at 11 AM. In lieu of flowers, offerings will be gratefully accepted by Trinity Church, Copley Square, Boston, MA 02116; or by the John Carter Brown Library, Brown University, Providence, RI 02906.
      