
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors, Advisory Council and Staff of the National Association on Drug Abuse Problems (NADAP) wish to express their deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to the Rudin family. 30 years ago Lew Rudin, along with several other business and labor leaders, saw the need to bring the pubic and private sectors together to combat the effects of substance abuse on New York's economy by forming NADAP. Lew carried the agency through some difficult times and helped the organization meet the city's growing needs for programs in the field of substance abuse and employment. His commitment, leadership and guidance, as a founder and board member, have helped over 10,000 people become self sufficient and employed. Each year, NADAP is honored to present the Lewis Rudin Award to distinguished leaders in society who also make a difference. We will never forget him.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine deeply mourn the passing of Lewis Rudin, an outstanding philanthropist and civic leader. Lewis Rudin's personal generosity and the generosity of the Rudin family to Mount Sinai School of Medicine included longtime important support for scholarships and medical research. Lewis Rudin's commitment to health care in our community was extraordinary, and his munificence will long be remembered. We extend our sincere sympathy to the entire Rudin family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman The Mount Sinai Medical Center Nathan Kase, Interim President and CEO, The Mount Sinai Medical Center and Interim Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Barry R. Freedman, President and CEO, The Mount Sinai Hospital
        RUDIN-Lewis, New York University's Stern School of Business mourns the loss of its dear friend and alumnus Lewis Rudin. His generousity toward our students, prompted by his dedication to New York City and to education, has made it possible for so many students to pursue their business education at his alma mater. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Rudin family. George Daly, Dean NYU Stern School of Business Fredrick D.S. Choi, Dean Undergraduate College William R. Berkley, Chairman, Stern Board of Overseers Kenneth G. Langone, Vice Chairman Stern Board of Overseers Henry Kaufman, Chairman Emeritus, Stern Board of Overseers
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Officers and Directors of the Contractors' Association of Greater New York mourn the passing of Lew Rudin, a giant among men, a supporter of our industry and a dear friend of our association and its member companies. John Cavanagh, AMEC Construction Jim Abadie, Bovis Lend Lease Frank Ross, HRH Construction Marty Trank, J.A. Jones Construction Richard Wood, Plaza Construction Peter Davoren, Turner Construction George Figliolia, Builders Group Raymond McGuire, Kauff, McClain & McGuire
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Conference of Presidents of American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of our esteemed friend Lewis Rudin. His passing is a great loss to our community. A longtime and devoted supporter of the Presidents Conference, Lew was a committed Jew, great humanitarian, philanthropist, and devoted New Yorker, and with his brother Jack, a pillar of every worthwhile cause. We will miss his wise counsel and presence. To Jack, Rachel, Bill and Beth and the entire Rudin family, our sincerest condolences. Mortimer Zuckerman, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Columbia/Barnard Hillel mourns with deepest sorrow the passing of Lewis Rudin, brother of our devoted friend and supporter, Jack Rudin. The Rudin family's generosity continues to enrich Jewish life at Columbia University. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Rachel, Jack and Susan, and the entire Rudin family. Prof. Robert Pollack, President Earle W. Kazis, Chairman Arthur O. Sulzberger, Chairman, Executive Committee Rabbi Charles H. Sheer, Jewish Chaplain Joanne Ben-Avi, Director of Development
        RUDIN-Lewis. It is with profound sorror that the Officers, Board and Members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City acknowledge the passing of a devoted and most generous friend. Through his long standing friendship with our late founder, Jack Hausman, Lewis Rudin became a staunch supporter of the needs of children and adults with cerebral palsy and their families. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Rachel, to his son, William, and daughter Beth. Leo Hausman, Chairman Martin Hausman, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors and staff of the Rent Stabilization Association mourn the loss of Lew Rudin, an Honorary Director of the RSA, a true leader of New York's housing industry and a key participant in molding the City's economic, social and cultural fabric. He will be greatly missed at a time when New York City needs him most. Our deepest condolences to the entire Rudin Family. Arnold Goldstein, Chairman Joseph Strasburg, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. It is with great sadness that the Board of Trustees of the New York Blood Center records the death of its former Trustee. Lew was an early advocate of the New York Blood Center and dedicated member of the Board for over 15 years. His invaluable expertise contributed immensely to the Center's growth. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Rudin family. Jack Mullen, Chairman Board of Trustees Robert L. Jones, MD, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Physicians and Staff of the Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University, College of Physicians & Surgeons, wish to express our heartfelt sorrow and condolences to the Lewis Rudin family. Mr. Rudin's generosity to support our programs that help the neediest of children is an inspiration to all of us. John M. Driscoll, Jr., M.D. Reuben S. Carpentier Professor Chairman, Dept. of Pediatrics
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board and Staff of Council of Senior Centers and Services of New York City, Inc. extend our heartfelt condolences to the family of Lewis Rudin, an honored recipient of our Good Citizen Award and staunch supporter of services for the elderly, Lew will be dearly missed. Emilie Roy Corey, President Elinor C. Guggenheimer Founding President Igal Jellinek, Executive Director
        RUDIN-Lewis. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Lew Rudin, a true friend to our company and role model for our industry. Lew's influence and friendship enriched us all and will inspire us to help continue his work of assuring New York City's position as the Capital of the World. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his family. Scott Rechler, Philip Waterman III Rechson Associates Realty Corp
        RUDIN-Lewis. We shall forever miss your camaraderie, wisdom, strength, leadership, guidance and love. As the seed that started our family, your spirit will live on in it forever. You were always there for us and we will always be there for your family, to whom we ex tend our deepest and sincerest condolences. Suzy and Kenny
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Staff and Volunteers of the Mount Sinai Breast Health Resource Program extend their deepest sympathy to Beth Rudin DeWoody, a member of our Board, and the entire Rudin family on the passing of Lewis Rudin. We thank Mr. Rudin and his family for their steadfast support of our program.
        RUDIN-Lewis. Our Nation, our state, our city and most important, our family, have all been blessed by Lew's involvement in our lives. Our thoughts and affection for you, will always be reflected in our love for your entire family. Joan, Bob, Jamie, Steve, Laurie Tisch Sussman and Jonathan Tisch
        RUDIN - Lewis. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of the brother of its devoted Honorary Trustee, Mr. Jack Rudin and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas
        RUDIN-Lewis. A man of honor, a leader, a creative problem solver, a loyal and long time friend, whose hand shake was an iron clad commitment, we mourn your passing and extend heartfelt condolences to the Rudin family. Bostock Family
        RUDIN-Lewis. Another pillar of our community is gone, but has left his mark forever. Friend and colleague in many endeavors, he was always ready to help a worthy cause. Our deepest sympathy to his family. The Weiler and Arnow Families
        RUDIN-Lewis. Your generosity touched so many lives. Because you cared, so many others will see. We will not forget. Steven M. Podos, M.D., and the Department of Ophthalmology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine.
        RUDIN-Lewis. A huge loss for the city to which he dedicated himself, and to all those who knew him. Jonathan S. Lowe
      