
        SANDLER-Herman, 57. Loving husband of Suki, devoted father of Pamela, Gillian and Jordana, role model and mentor to hundreds of young people. You encouraged us to take risks and gave us innumerable opportunities to follow our dreams, cheering us on as we learned to impact the world as you did so powerfully. You will always remain our awesome inspiration. We love you, Suki, Pamela, Gillian and Jordana. In lieu of flowers, gifts honoring Herman may be made to any of the following organizations: American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, The Rain Forest Foundation, The Perlman Music Program, Carnegie Hall, or UJA Federation of NY.
        SANDLER-Herman. It was Herman Sandler's altruism and generosity that first brought him into Sting's and my lives and the life of the Rain Forest Foundation. Every year he would come to the annual fund-raising concert at Carnegie Hall, bringing with him a huge party of colleagues and family, and donating very substantial sums to our cause. His support of my work extended to smaller projects, such as the Tibetan Peace Garden in London, and he championed my endeavors with huge interest, support and indefatigable energy. He was a joy to be with socially, a charismatic personality exuding a sense of fun and enthusiasm for life that shone from his boyish eyes. I will miss his company, I will miss trying to amuse him just to hear his wonderful infectious laughter. He imbued New York with his vital life force, and it's a smaller apple without him. We will always remember him. Trudie Styler and Sting
        SANDLER-Herman S. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the tragic passing of our devoted congregant, Herman Sandler. We extend to his wife, Suki, his daughters, Pamela, Jordana, Gillian, his mother & the entire family, our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President
        SANDLER-Herman. To our best friend who filled us with a passion for living and the inspiration to carry on. We will always remember and love you. Melvin, Helen and Jack Heller
        SANDLER-Herman. We will miss you, your knowledge, enthusiasm, generosity, humor, and most of all your friendship. Our deepest sympathies to Suki and the family. Jackie and Mort Ackerman
        SANDLER-Herman. A great friend will be missed immeasurably. Strength to Suki, Pam, Gillian and Jordana. Eleanor Heyman Rodney Propp
      