
        GILBERT-Sir Arthur. The American Friends of The Hebrew University & The Hebrew University of Jerusalem deeply mourn the passing of Sir Arthur Gilbert, member of AFHU Council of Trustees and Hebrew University Board of Governors. Arthur's involvement with the University began when as a teenager he traveled to Palestine to attend the opening ceremony of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1925. Since then, many of the programs at the University have benefited from his & his family's generosity, most notably the Rothberg International School, where The Rosalinde and Arthur Gilbert Cafeteria was dedicated in honor of its benefactor and his late wife. He and his present wife Marjorie also made a generous gift, naming new tennis courts in their honor. In 1997, Arthur received an Honorary Fellowship from The Hebrew University, and in 1999, he received an Honorary Doctorate for his ''unstinting support for the advancement of culture and higher education.'' We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Marjorie, son Colin, granddaughter Windy Lee Gallagher, step daughter Susan Waring, and the entire family. American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President Professor Menahem Ben-Sasson, Rector Yigal Arnon, Chairman of the Board of Governors
        GILBERT-Sir Arthur. The officers, Board and Staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the passing of Sir Arthur Gilbert of Beverly Hills, CA, an inspiring supporter of the ATS, the Technion and Israel. A renowned philanthropist and an art collector who was Knighted in his native England, Sir Arthur was an Honorary Life Member of the Technion International Board of Governors and a Life Trustee of the ATS National Board of Regents. A Technion Guardian who had reached the highest level of commitment to the university, Sir Arthur received an honorary doctorate from the Technion and was recognized with the Albert Einstein Award, the Society's highest honor. He left his mark on the Technion campus, where he established the Arthur and Marjorie Gilbert Center for Advancement of Scientific Research and with his late wife Rosalinde, funded the Arthur and Rosalinde Gilbert Water Treatment and Water Quality Laboratory and the Arthur and Rosalind Gilbert Student Dormitory. Our sincere condolences go to his widow, Lady Marjorie Gilbert, his son Colin, and the entire Gilbert family. The American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Lawrence S. Jackier, President Irving A. Shepard, Chair Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive VP David Polak, Pres Western Region Robert Davidow, Chairman of the Board, Western Region William Litvak, President Southern Calif. Chapter Edith Fischer, Chairman of the Board, Southern Calif. Chapter
      