
        REISS-Miriam. Died suddenly on Tuesday, September 4, 2001. She survived her true love, Joseph Reiss, by 24 years. Adored mother of Ed and Liz, mother-in-law of Phyllis Reiss and Alan Jaffe. Grandmother of David and Janette; Bob and Beth; Richard, Joey and Erica. Great grandmother of Zach, Ari and Natan (born on August 25 in Jerusalem). Her beloved sisters, Ruth Hyman and Thelma Jassem, were enriched by her devotion. Miriam's 88 vibrant years of life were dedicted to her family, many friends, philanthropy and Israel. She was an expert in all that she did including general repairs, grammar, crossword puzzles, the Internet and, most of all, golf. All of those who were touched by her love and generosity will miss her forever. Services will be held 1 PM Thursday at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations may be made to the Miriam and Joseph Reiss Memorial Fund of UJA-Federation, 130 East 59th Street, N.Y., N.Y. 10022 or a charity of your choice.
        REISS-Miriam. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Miriam Reiss. Mrs. Reiss and her late husband, Joseph, were lifelong supporters of UJA-Federation and Jewish philanthropic causes worldwide. Mrs. Reiss chaired Federation's women's campaign in Brooklyn; Joseph was on the board of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, a predecessor of UJA-Federation. In her husband's memory, Mrs. Reiss established the Joseph Reiss Fund, which provides money to purchase books for agency libraries. Mrs. Reiss' children continue her legacy. Liz and Alan Jaffe, her daughter and son-in-law, and Ed and Phyllis Reiss, her son and daughter-inlaw, are longtime UJA-Federation supporters who serve the Jewish community with distinction on local, national, and international levels. Mrs. Jaffe has served on our board, and on the boards of Westchester Jewish Community Services and the Jewish Community Center of Manhattan, beneficiary agencies. Mr. Jaffe is a past president of UJA-Federation and is on the boards of several prominent Jewish organizations. Mr. Reiss is on the executive committee of our Wall Street division and chairs our firm campaign at the New York Stock Exchange. He is also a board member of the Jewish Home and Hospital. We send our deepest sympathies to Liz and Alan; Ed and Phyllis; to Mrs. Reiss' grandchildren; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        REISS-Miriam. The partners, senior counsel, associates and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP acknowledge with great sadness the passing of Miriam Reiss, mother-in-law of our Chairman Alan Jaffe. A talented and compassionate woman, Miriam left to this world an extraordinary gift: a devotion to family and charitable spirit that live on in her children and grandchildren. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Liz and Alan Jaffe; Phyllis and Ed Reiss, and all their family and friends. Executive Committee Proskauer Rose LLP
      