
        ASHFORTH-Henry Adams, Jr. Of Greenwich, CT, died peacefully on Friday, September 21, after a battle with cancer. He was 73. He was the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Ashforth Company, a real estate company headquartered in Stamford, CT, and former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Albert B. Ashforth, Inc. Mr. Ashforth was also a director and former Chairman of UNICO Properties, a Seattle based real estate company. He also served as Trustee and Chairman of The Greenwich Library, Trustee of The Greenwich Boys Club, President and Director of The East Side Association, Director of ICD Rehabilitation & Research Center, Chairman of the Young Men's Real Estate Association of New York, Trustee of The New York Association for the Blind, Trustee of The Greenwich Hospital Association, Trustee of The Ethel Walker School, and Trustee of Gallaudet University, sharing his time and knowledge to promote their success. He was also a member of various clubs including The Links and The Racquet Club in New York, The Greenwich Field Club -former president, and The Round Hill Club of Greenwich. In the tradition of his great-grandmother, Elizabeth Milbank Anderson, who started the first free public library in Greenwich in 1895, Mr. Ashforth led the development of its recent addition. He considered this one of his greatest contributions to the town of Greenwich. He served in the U.S. Army as Private First Class from October 1946 to March of 1948 -Korean Occupation Force. Henry A. Ashforth, Jr. was born January 5, 1928 in New York City, the son of Henry Adams Ashforth, Sr. and Elizabeth Anderson Ashforth of Greenwich, CT. He attended Greenwich Country Day School, graduated from Milton Academy and Yale University, class of 1952 and was a member of Scroll and Key and Delta Kappa Epsilon. He was a grandson of Albert B. Ashforth of New York. He married the former Georgia McCampbell Perkins on September 11, 1954, and lived in Greenwich, CT, and Peru, VT. He is survived by his wife; sons Henry Ashforth, III, Andrew B. Ashforth, and Thomas A. Ashforth; three daughters, Elizabeth A. Bacon, Katherine A. Wiener, and Margaret M. Ashforth; and fourteen grandchildren. He is also survived by his stepmother, Elsie L. Ashforth; his sister, Eleanor A. Harvey; his brother, Alden B. Ashforth; his sister, Marna R. Ashforth; and his stepsister, Christina M. Whitman. A memorial service will be held on Tuesday, September 25, 2001, at 2:30 PM, at Christ Church, 254 East Putnam Ave, Greenwich, CT. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to The Greenwich Library, Greenwich, CT.
      