
        KATES-Andrew Keith, 37. Of New York City, died tragically September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center. Andy was a devoted and loving husband to his beloved Emily and an exceptional father to his three children Hannah, 5, Lucy, 3, and Henry, 1. He was the adored son of Judith and the late Lewis Kates, and grandson of Beatrice Wasserman. Andy will be missed forever by his brothers Seth and Paul. He was a devoted son-in-law to Kate Terry and Jim Terry. Andy was a graduate of Wesleyan University (1985) and The Harvard Business School (1991). Andy had a rare and generous spirit and an extraordinary sense of humor. His smile and his energy attracted an immense number of life long friends that will miss him dearly. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, September 23, at 11 AM at Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83rd St. (between Columbus and Central Park West). In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Congregation Rodeph Sholom in memory of Andrew Kates.
        KATES-Andrew. Congregation Rodeph Sholom is deeply shaken and saddened over the tragic and untimely death of Andrew Kates in the World Trade Center disaster. Andrew was the consummate mentsch who always put his family first. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his wife Emily and his three young children Hannah, Lucy and Henry and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi Mark Biderman, President
        KATES-Andy. Dear Andy, family dinners, weekend mornings in the park or impromptu outings, you made them all so memorable with your love and warmth. You touched our lives. We will carry you with us always. The gaping hole we will feel whenever we are together can never be filled. But we promise you to do what we know you would have done for your friends; We will love and tend to your dear family with all our hearts, hands and compassion. We will help and heal Emily, Hannah, Lucy and Henry out of love for you and for them. Wherever you are, please look over them and us. Emily and Billy Susman Megan and Aaron Metrikin Suzanne and Martin Friedman
      