
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. 89 years old. Died peacefully at home surrounded by his loving family on September 12, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Dorothy Spear Schwartz. Loving father of Jane and Edward Stein, Amy and Charles Spielman, and Thomas and Lonnie Schwartz. Adored by his grandchildren Philip and Frances Stein, Laura, Eric and Jenny Spielman, and Ilyse and Adam Schwartz. Also survived by his sister Carol Rozen and brothers Lester and Henry Schwartz. Brother-in-law of Henry Yusen and ''big brother'' to Ellen Spear Smith. He left our world better than the way he found it. Services Friday, 12:30PM at ''Temple BethEl of Great Neck'', 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck. In lieu of flowers, contributions to his favorite charities, ''Temple Beth El of Great Neck'', North Shore LIJ Health System, or The Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation or the charity of your choice would be appreciated.
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Alvin Schwartz, a dear friend and longtime generous supporter of our Real Estate Division. Mr. Schwartz, a remarkable leader and philanthropist, dedicated himself to Jewish and humanitarian causes including the North Shore LIJ Health Care System, a beneficiary of UJA-Federation. We extend our deepest sympathies to his daughter and son-in-law, Jane and Edward Stein; to his daughter and son-in-law, Amy and Charles Spielman; to his son and daughterin-law, Thomas and Lonnie Schwartz; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York mourn the loss of our dear, dear Alvin, a man of great heart and warmth, a giant of the real estate industry for 67 years. Alvin was instrumental in consummating some of the largest sales in the City of New York. In 1955, he arranged the merger of Spear and Company and DwightHelmsley to form Helmsley-Spear, Inc. Alvin was a mentor to hundreds of young real estate professionals, guiding them to their successes. He will be dearly missed by all who knew him. We extend our deepest condoleneces to his family, his many, many friends and to all at Helsmley-Spear. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. All of us at Helmsley-Spear, Inc. mourn the loss of Alvin Schwartz, the company's co-chairman and a giant in the real estate industry. During the last 55 years, Mr. Schwartz earned the respect and enjoyed the admiration of his colleagues at Helmsley-Spear, Inc. His friendship was invaluable. He will be remembered for his kindness, generosity and compassion. Condolences are extended to his daughters Jane and Amy, his son Tom, his grandchildren and the entire Schwartz Family. In Alvin's memory, the offices of HelmsleySpear, Inc. will be closed on Friday September 14, 2001.
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. The Real Estate Board of New York mourns the passing of its lifetime Governor, Alvin Schwartz. His distinguished career expand over half a century. We will remember, as well, Alvin's generosity and his devotion to training generations of his profession's promising younger members. His wise counsel and personal warmth will be greatly missed. REBNY extends its condolences to his family. Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. The entire North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System family sadly say farewell to our beloved board member, friend and champion of quality healthcare on Long Island. His wisdom, humor and generosity of spirit will forever be an inspiration to us all. Our deepest condolences to Amy, Jane, and Tom and their families. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman, Board of Trustees John S. T. Gallagher, CEO
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Alvin Schwartz, a longtime ADL friend and generous supporter. We extend our condolences to his children, and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director Arnold Forster General Counsel
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. Alvin has been my special friend, partner and business associate for more than fifty years. His wisdom and good nature made those times most rewarding. Our sincere condolences to his children Jane, Amy, and Tommy, his grandchildren and the entire Schwartz Family. Irving, Helen, Lynn and Mindy Schneider
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. With heartfelt and great sadness we say farewell to our ''dear boss'' of many years. Our deepest condolences to his children, grandchildren and the rest of the Schwartz Family. Marian Nappa, Jennie Ruiz and Roberta Caturano
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. We note with sorrow the passing of our friend and business associate. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and friends. The Feil Organization
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. A highly respected and admired leader in the real estate industry. Our sincere condolences to the family. The Ring Family
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. A remarkable man, and an outstanding friend. Alvin, we will miss you and love you forever. Arthur & Harriet Guterman
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. To a very dear friend for over 50 years. My condolences to the family. Norman F. Levy
      