
        SPENCER - William I. The Trustees, faculty and staff of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of William I. Spencer, a Life Trustee, valued friend and a generous benefactor. A successful businessman and a leader in the financial industry, Mr. Spencer was elected to the Medical Center Board of Trustees in 1969 and was appointed a Life Trustee in 1995. He was an esteemed and active member of the Board who offered leadership and vision by serving as Executive Vice Chairman of the Board and as a member of key committees. Mr. Spencer's tenure as a Trustee was marked by many acts of generosity including the establishment of the Susan and William Spencer Scholarship Fund to help support medical education. Mr. Spencer's warm and gracious personality, his dedication and his strong support earned the enduring respect and admiration of his fellow trustees and the entire medical center cummunity. Mr. Spencer will be deeply missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Susan, his family and the many people who were fortunate to know him as a friend. Kenneth G. Langone, Chairman NYU School of Medicine Foundation Board of Trustees and NYU Hospitals Center Board of Trustees Robert M. Glickman, MD, Dean, NYU School of Medicine Theresa A. Bischoff, President, NYU Hospitals Center
        SPENCER-William I. It is with great sadness that the Board of Trustees of the New York Blood Center records the death of William I. Spencer, a dedicated, inspiring and loyal member of the Board from 1975 through the year 2000. During his tenure he held the position of Chairman of the Board for almost 10 years. Throughout his long association with the Blood Center, his enthusiasm for its mission and his commitment to service were vigorously demonstrated and so highly regarded by the Blood Center that the ''William I. Spencer Community Service Award'' was established. On behalf of the New York Blood Center and its entire staff, we extend our sincere condolences to the Spencer family. Jack Mullen, Chairman Board of Trustees Robert L. Jones, M.D., President
        SPENCER-William I. The Board of Directors of Amerada Hess Corporation expresses its deep sorrow at the loss of its esteemed colleague, William I. Spencer. Mr Spencer was a member of the Board of Directors of Amerada Hess Corporation for 19 years. His wise counsel, business experience and financial expertise were instrumental in the development and growth of the Corporation. His contributions, advice and friendship will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Susan, his step-children and his grandchildren.
        SPENCER-William. Our sympathies to all who knew and loved Bill Spencer, longtime friend, mentor, colleague and god-father to daughter Sarah. Special thanks to our best friend Susan, his loving wife, for being there for him. We will miss his warmth, courage and wisdom. Marilyn Puder-York and Chris York
      