
        GREENE-Donald F. Of Greenwich, CT, on September 11, 2001. The Safe Flight Instrument Corporation, its management and staff are grieved and shocked by the tragic loss of Donald F. Greene, our Executive Vice President, in the crash of United Air Lines Flight 93. Victim of a terrorist attack on the United States, Don was never a victim in life. His dynamic leadership and direction helped shape Safe Flight's transition to the 21st century. An experienced pilot himself, he promoted safety in aviation through his work for Safe Flight. The company invented and manufactures numerous aviation safety devices, which have been credited for saving thousands of lives. Born in New York City on May 21, 1949, he was graduated from Suffield Academy in Suffield, CT in 1967, received a B.S in Engineering from Brown University in 1971, and obtained an MBA from Pace University in 1983. A loving father, husband, brother, son, Donald Greene lived his life with love, integrity, intelligence, humor and compassion. He leaves many whom he loved and who loved him. He is survived by his wife, the former Claudette Beaulieu, and their children, Charles Freeman and Jody Cecilia; his father, Leonard M. Greene, and stepmother, Joyce Meller Greene; his siblings, Douglas F. Greene (Carla), Randall A. Greene (Anne), Charles F. Greene (Gail), Bonnie G. Le Var (John), Jeffrey B. Meller (Christine), William Meller, Gary Meller (Maureen), Laurie G. Baldwin (Norman), Stephen F. Greene (Truddi), Amy Gerbe (Thomas), Terry A. Greene (Beth Radcliffe); numerous nieces and nephews; and a host of devoted friends and co-workers. A memorial service will be held on Friday, September 14th, at 9:30 A.M. at Temple Shalom, 300 East Putnam Avenue, Greenwich, CT. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the National Alliance of Breast Cancer Organizations, 9 East 37th Street, 10th Floor, New York, NY 10016 or to the Corporate Angel Network, Westchester County Airport, One Loop Road, White Plains, New York 10604.
        GREENE-Donald F. The Board of Directors, Staff and Friends of the Institute for SocioEconomic Studies mourn the loss of Donald Greene. He was an invaluable member of our Board, a true friend and thoughtful mentor. His intelligent guidance and his humorous, vital presence will be deeply missed by all who knew him. Our deepest sympathy goes to his family and friends.
        GREENE-Donald F. The Executive Director, Board of Advisors and staff of the Corporate Angel Network wish to express deepest sorrow at the loss of our dear friend and ardent supporter Donald Greene, and to extend our heartfelt condolences to his family and loved ones.
      