
        RUDIN-Lewis, 74 years old of New York City, co-chairman of Rudin Management Company, Inc. and Chairman of the Association for a Better New York. Died peacefully Thursday, September 20, 2001 in his home, surrounded by his loving family after courageously battling cancer. He was a great and special man who will be missed by his family, so many friends and the city he loved. We loved him dearly. He is survived by his adoring wife, Rachel, his brother, Jack, his children, Beth Rudin DeWoody, William Rudin and his wife, Ophelia, grandchildren, Carlton, Samantha, Kyle and Michael, nieces, nephews, grand nephews and cousins. Services will be held Sunday, September 23 at 10 A.M. at Central Synagogue, Lexington Avenue at 55th Street. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to: Central Synagogue, 123 East 55th Street, NY, NY 10022, 212-838-5122; Twin Towers Fund, P.O. Box 26999, General Post Office, NY, NY 10087; The Fund for Ophthalmic Knowledge, Inc. C/O Dr. David Abramson, 101 Central Park West, NY, NY 10023, 212744-1700; the Weill Cornell Center for Complementary and Integrative Medicine, C/O Dr. Mitchell Gaynor, 428 East 72nd Street, Suite 100, NY, NY 10021, 212-746-1330; The First Tee, The World Golf Village, 425 South Legacy Trail, St. Augustine, FL 32092, 904-940-4300; The ABNY Foundation, C/O Maggie Brown, 355 Lexington Ave., New York, NY 10017, 212-370-5800.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The entire Yeshiva University Family mourns the passing of its devoted friend, a giant among the humanitarians, civic leaders, and philanthropists who immeasurably enriched New York City's quality of life for generations. With his brother Jack he maintained and expanded the Rudin Family tradition of caring, compassionate, and far-sighted philanthropic endeavors begun by his grandparents, Louis and Rachel Rudin, and enhanced by his parents, Samuel and May Rudin. A Benefactor of the University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine through the May and Samuel Rudin Family Foundation and The Louis and Rachel Rudin Foundation, he provided hundreds of scholarships for students and support for research in cancer and AIDS at Einstein, and supported programs in Talmudic studies at the University's affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. This quintessential New Yorker's life was truly a blessing. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Rachel; Jack and his wife, Susan; daughter, Beth Rudin De Woody; son, William C. Rudin, and wife, Ophelia; and to the grandchildren and all members of the bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Robert M. Beren, Chairman, Board of Trustees Burton P. Resnick, Chairman, Executive Committee Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson, Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors, staff and residents of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with deep sorrow the untimely passing of Lewis Rudin, a man of unbounded generosity and exceptional personal warmth. Lew Rudin, along with his brother Jack and their extraordinary family, became highly successful businessmen and always believed that their good fortune was a gift to be shared with others. And share they did, with people in need in New York, Israel and around the world. Lew and Jack Rudin's gifts to The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale through the May and Samuel Rudin Foundation that honors their parents, will enable us to extend our high quality services to embrace more older persons. Their support of Project HOPE (Healthcare Offers Permanent Employment), conducted by The Hebrew Home since 1992, has provided an enriched setting, alternative education and vocational programs for students at risk, helping the youngsters graduate from high school and enter the health field. We were pleased to honor Lew and Jack Rudin at our annual dinner in 1993. The Hebrew Home extends its condolences to Lew's beloved wife Rachel; daughter Beth DeWoody; son William and daughter-in-law Ophelia; four grandchildren; brother Jack; and all who loved him, and the thousands whose lives were improved by his selflessness and vision. Milton A. Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman Daniel A. Reingold, Exec. VP
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Columbia University community is deeply saddened by the loss of Lewis Rudin, whose devotion and commitment to NYC, its institutions of higher education and civic and philanthropic organizations has enriched the lives of all who love our city. He was a tireless champion of the city's cultural, civic, academic and philanthropic organizations and extolled the many virtues of the city as a founder and supporter of the Association for a Better New York. At Columbia, we are grateful for all he did to extend and support the enrichment of so many young lives. He generously established the Rudin scholarships, which will uphold the devotion he had for goodness and decency by inspiring civic commitment among our best students. His legacy will continue for generations to come in the good works of many deserving students. We will miss him. George Rupp President Columbia University David J. Stern Chair Columbia Trustees
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Governors, Members and Staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Lewis Rudin, a giant in our industry and one of New York's prominent civic and philanthropic leaders. Lew was instrumental in helping the city avoid bankruptcy in the mid-1970s by convincing businesses to prepay real estate taxes. In the 1980s, Lew led the fight to preserve the deductibility of state and local taxes. Lew's love of New York was evident in the boundless energy he devoted in promoting the city and his unswerving belief in its future. Lew was a founder and chairman of the Association for a Better New York and directed other initiatives such as providing bullet-proof vests for New York's police department. Lew was a tireless supporter of many charitable and philanthropic endeavors which enriched the lives of many New Yorkers. We express our sympathy to his wife Rachel, brother Jack, his children Beth and William, grandchildren, and the entire Rudin family. Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The faculty, staff and students of Columbia University's Health Sciences Division mourn the passing of our benefactor Lewis Rudin. His generosity through the Rudin Family foundations nurtured the center of our intellectual life by honoring our most esteemed physicians, enhancing the educational programs of our schools and advancing important patient care and community service programs. He was an active participant in our work. The many ways he touched the city to make it a better place to live and work provide a fitting legacy. Columbia's Health Sciences schools of medicine, dentistry, nursing and public health are proud to share that legacy and pledge to honor his memory. We offer condolences to his wife, children, and grandchildren, and his brother, Jack. Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D. Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences Columbia University Health Sciences
        RUDIN-Lewis. The City University of New York deeply mourns the passing of our beloved friend Lewis Rudin. He was an extraordinary champion for the city he loved and a strong and steadfast friend of CUNY. He served as Chairman of CUNY's Business Leadership Council. CUNY presented the Chancellor's Medal last fall to him and his brother Jack, who worked as a team in all their good deeds. We recognized their many years of support and encouragement in advancing excellence and opportunity at CUNY. As Chairman of the Association for a Better New York, Lewis Rudin was an exemplary leader who worked tirelessly in support of the economic growth and vitality of New York City and the educational advancement of its citizenry. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the Rudin family. He will be sorely missed. Benno C. Schmidt, Jr. Vice Chairman Board of Trustees Matthew Goldstein, Chancellor
        RUDIN-Lewis. The faculty and staff of Schneider Children's Hospital of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System extend our heartfelt condolences to the family of Lewis Rudin. Through Lewis Rudin's tireless philanthropic efforts, along with his brother, Jack, Schneider Children's Hospital received significant support through the Samuel and May Rudin Foundation. These funds have been responsible for the hospital's Program in Bioethics and Social Policy. The program is a vital part of the training of pediatric residents, medical students and faculty in making sensitive and disciplined decisions about the ethical issues for children and their families. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Rudin family at this very difficult time and to the entire city of New York. Philip Lanzkowsky, M.D., ScD, FRCP, Chief of Staff, Schneider Children's Hospital, Vice President Children's Health Network, NS-LIJ Health System
        RUDIN-Lewis. New York Road Runners mourns the passing of a founding sponsor of the Five Borough New York City Marathon, Lewis Rudin. In life his competitive spirit and his ability to bring diverse people together exemplified the goals and ideal of NYRR. Each year, the Samuel Rudin Trophy is given in memory of Lewis' father to the winners of the New York City Marathon. The Marathon has achieved its greatness in part due to his contribution and dedication to our organization and this special event, which in turn, has benefitted the city he loved. Lewis Rudin helped to build our city, and to enhance its cultural and recreational opportunities. He brought health and joy to the participants and spectators of the New York City Marathon. NYRR will be forever grateful to him. We offer our sincere condolences to the entire Rudin family. Allan Steinfeld, President and CEO
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board, staff and Fellows of the New York Academy of Medicine record with sorrow the loss of Lewis Rudin, a New Yorker dedicated to enhancing the quality of life for people everywhere. In a host of engagements in health, the arts, education and civic life he was an imaginative, enthusiastic and stimulating presence. The interest and support provided for the New York Academy of Medicine by him and his brother Jack have strengthened and advanced its programs in education, clinical care and research, particularly in programs in urban health and the health of disadvantaged populations across the country. With the rest of New York, the Academy has lost a good friend, as New York City has lost a champion. Jack D. Barchas, M.D., Chairman, Board of Trustees Jeremiah A. Barondess, M.D., President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The New York Building Congress joins all New Yorkers in remembering the incomparable leadership of Lewis Rudin. His enormous contributions to this City as the Founding Chairman of the Association for Better New York and in countless other ways are unmatched and will benefit this City for generations to come. Lew Rudin raised our sights and never accepted adversity. The Building Congress presented him with its 77th Anniversary Leadership Award in 1998, together with Governor George E. Pataki, and no building industry leader was more deserving. We celebrate his life as an exceptional New Yorker who galvanized the business community unlike any other. Jeffrey M. Levy, Chairman Richard T. Anderson, President New York Building Congress
        RUDIN-Lewis. All of Lincoln Center mourns the loss of one of its most beloved patrons and one of our city's most valiant and tireless leaders. A dedicated and longstanding member of the board of Lincoln Center Theater and the heart and soul of the Association for a Better New York and of New York City, Lewis with his brother Jack led one of our City's most philanthropic and civic-minded families. He was generous, fun loving, tough in the face of adversity, and always there if you needed a hand. We all loved him. We will all miss him. Our deepest sympathy to his brother Jack and to his wife Rachel, daughter Beth and son Bill. Beverly Sills, Chairman Gordon J. Davis, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater grieve the death of our beloved and greatly admired Trustee, a founding member of the Board when the theater was reestablished in 1984. Lew believed so deeply that this theater was crucial to the cultural and theatrical life of the city. He was ardent in his support as he was in his extraordinary love for and devotion to New York. We extend our profound sympathy to Rachel, Beth, Bill, Jack and the grandchildren. Linda LeRoy Janklow Chairman John S. Chalsty President Andre Bishop Artistic Director Bernard Gersten Executive Producer
        RUDIN-Lewis. The NYC Police Foundation profoundly mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. Lew gave unselfishly of his time, energy and resources to benefit New York and all New Yorkers. Our city is a better place because of Lew and his loss will be very much felt as we join together to rebuild in the aftermath of the September 11 horrors. He was a committed trustee of the Foundation and a generous friend and supporter of the NYPD. We extend our deepest sympathies to Rachel, Jack, Bill, Beth and his family. His loss will be keenly felt but his deeds will long inspire us. George Benjamin, Chairman Pamela D. Delaney, President NYC Police Foundation, Inc.
        RUDIN-Lewis. Our deepest sympathy to the Family and Friends of Lew Rudin, a wise statesman, a giant in the business community, a leader in the real estate world, a generous philanthropist and a true friend of a multitude of people from all walks of life. His inspiring guidance and insight made New York a much better place for all of us, and we will dearly miss him. We will always remember him by seeing and experiencing all of the good deeds he has done for our great city and its people. John L. Tishman Daniel R. Tishman John A. Vickers Joseph Simone and all his friends at Tishman Realty & Construction Co., Inc.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend Lewis Rudin. A man of unfailing generosity and enormous spirit, Mr. Rudin was widely admired as an outstanding citizen of our city and our country. He and his family have made countless contributions to enhancing life in New York City and in doing so have established a model of civic pride and philanthropy that has set the standard for all of us. We join in mourning with all those who knew and loved him, and we extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Herbert Pardes, M.D. President and CEO NewYork-Presbyterian Healthcare System
        RUDIN-Lewis. Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and benefactor Lewis Rudin. Mr. Rudin provided significant support for the Weill Cornell Burn Center and for research into the diseases that plague humankind. A native New Yorker, he dedicated his life to improving the city for all who live, work, and visit here. All New Yorkers owe a debt of gratitude to his vision. He will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Antonio M. Gotto, Jr., M.D. Dean, Weill Medical College of Cornell University
        RUDIN-Lewis. Central Synagogue mourns Lewis Rudin, great member, loyal and devoted supporter, and a kind and gentle soul. Lew Rudin has stood with us through the heights of celebration and despair of tragedy. He took the lead in our time of need and blessed us with his kindness and generous spirit. We are mindful of his family who has surrounded him with love and goodness and who has been by his side during his last difficult battle for his life and his preparation for death. As always, he did what he needed to do with courage and fortitude. He will be missed by us all. May his memory be a blessing. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Benenson Capital Company mourns the loss of our distinguished friend, Lewis Rudin. We will miss his intelligence, leadership and wit. We have fifty years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a man who was greatly dedicated to his family, business, philanthropy and especially New York City. Those of us who know how special he was share the sense of loss with his family, friends, and associates. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Rudin family and New York City. Charles B. Benenson Lawrence B. Benenson Richard A. Kessler James E. Stifel
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Trustees, Staff, and Volunteers of The Whitney Museum of American Art are deeply saddened by the loss of Lewis Rudin, father of our beloved Board member, Beth Rudin DeWoody. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Beth, one of The Whitney Museum's dearest friends and to the entire Rudin family. A titan of New York City, supreme philanthropist, leader, and patron of the arts, Lewis Rudin will be profoundly missed by all of us and by his treasured city. His generosity and his great example will remain with us always. Leonard A. Lauder, Chairman Joel S. Ehrenkranz, President Maxwell L. Anderson, Director
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Officers, Directors and Staff of Medical Development for Israel, Inc. and Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel deeply mourn the passing of Lewis Rudin, member of the Board, loyal friend and devoted supporter. His long standing commitment and tireless dedication on behalf of the children of Israel will always be remembered. We express our profound condolences to his beloved wife Rachel, his brother Jack, his children, grandchildren and his extended family. H. Irwin Levy, Chmn. of the Board Arnold Forster, President Amb. Uri Bar-Ner, V.P., MDI Dr. Itamar Shalit, Dir., SCMCI
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Officers, Directors, Members & Staff of The Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations mourn the passing of their friend and a great New Yorker, Lew Rudin. His boundless energy and love of this great City has set an example for us all. He was truly what we all desired to be, a man that mattered. His tireless work to improve the City and his leadership in the industry which he lead will be forever remembered by all he touched. We wish to extend our sympathy to his grieving family who must be both proud of Lew's achievements and deeply saddened by his departure. James Berg, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board and Staff of the Conservancy for Historic Battery Park honor the exceptional life of Lew Rudin and send to our dedicated Chairman, his beloved son Bill, our deepest sympathy. We are forever grateful to the Rudin family for their funding and continued support. Lew understood that New York functions best with the active involvement of its citizens. His great example and eternal spirit will inspire us especially now when we need it most. Lew, we thank you and we won't let you down. Warrie Price, President Conservancy for Historic Battery Park
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Eye-Bank for Sight Restoration's Board of Directors, Medical Advisory Board and staff express their sincere condolences to the family of Lewis Rudin. In addition to his profound civic mindedness and love of New York City, Mr. Rudin was a generous supporter of our organization and our sight-saving mission. He was our 1994 ''Man of Vision'', a well deserved honor and we will miss him greatly. Anne Cote Taylor, President R. Linsy Farris, M.D. Medical Advisory Board Wing Chu, M.D., Medical Director Patricia Dahl, Executive Director and CEO
        RUDIN-Lewis. We profoundly mourn the passing of Lewis Rudin, a founder and director of the Citizens Crime Commission of New York City. Over the years, his strong leadership, wise counsel and great love for New York guided our work. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his family. He will be deeply missed while our memory of him inspires us as we move forward to rebuild our city. Paul S. Miller, Chairman Thomas A. Reppetto, President The Directors and Staff, Citizens Crime Commission of New York City
        RUDIN-Lewis. When Lew was born, the mold was broken. There will never again be a person as dedicated to the welfare of our city. He was Mr. New York, our inspiration, cheerleader and booster. His warmth, humanity, caring, natural grace and generosity were extraordinary. Whether at ABNY, in the South of France, or dancing at Raffles or closing P.J.'s, he was indefatigable. Lew, you made an enormous difference to your friends and to our entire city. We extend our deepest sympathy to your entire family. Linda and Sandy Lindenbaum
        RUDIN-Lewis. Lew Rudin loved New York City, and joined with his family to build at the crossroads of the world, because he embraced the reinvention of 42nd Street as a symbol of the resilience, tenacity and aspiration of this great city of his. Everyone at The New 42nd Street, The New Victory Theater, and New 42nd Street Studios send their heartfelt condolences to Rachel, Beth, Bill, Jack and all the members of Lew's dear family. Marian S. Heiskell, Chairman Cora Cahan, President The Board of Directors and the Staff of The New 42nd Street
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board and the members of the Young Men's/ Women's Real Estate Association of New York, Inc. wish to express their deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences to the Rudin Family. Lew Rudin was a past chairman of our organization, a friend and mentor to all of us. His continued leadership, guidance and contribution to the real estate industry will be sorely missed. Joseph A. Grotto, Jr. Chairman YM/WREA
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of Lewis Rudin, brother of its devoted friend and supporter, Jack Rudin. The Rudin family's generosity through the May and Samuel Rudin Family Foundation has enriched the lives of countless needy Jerusalemites. We extend our deepest condolences to Jack and the entire Rudin family. Teddy Kollek, Int'l. Chairman Ruth Cheshin, Int'l. President William Ackman, Chairman, USA Sandra Rubin, Exec. Dir., USA
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Trustees, faculty, and students of the Helene Fuld College of Nursing of North General Hospital express our sorrow on the passing of Lew Rudin. His generous scholarship support through the Rudin Family Foundations helped so many of our students become excellent nurses. We extend our sympathies to his wife Rachel, his children, to Jack and Susan, and the entire family. Peggy Wines, President, HFCN Madlyn Stokely, Chairperson, Board of Trustees, HFCN
        RUDIN-Lewis. All of our family mourns the loss of Lewis, together with the entire Rudin family. He was the consummate gentleman and our friend for many wonderful years. His love for the city of his birth was evident in the many ways in which he embraced it. We loved him dearly and we will miss him forever. Our special love to Rachel, Jack, Susan, Beth, Bill, Ophelia, Carlton, Kyle, Samantha and Michael. Helen and Irving Schneider Lynn and Mindy
        RUDIN-Lewis. Rarely do we see embodied in one person so many excellent qualities that marked each and every one of his days with grace and generosity, dignity and integrity, and unparalleled civic leadership. During this time of great distress, Lew would have given courage and friendship to so many of us. He has left us a great legacy-his family-who continue to lead the way. Our heartfelt condolences to Rachel, Bill, Beth, Jack all their families. Louise Sunshine & Martin Begun
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York express their deep sorrow at the loss of their dear friend, Lew Rudin. Lew was an inspiration to all who knew him. Through his vision and tireless efforts, Lew helped make New York the great city it is today. Our heartfelt condolences to all his dear family and friends at this sad time. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors, the District Management Association and the entire staff of the Grand Central Partnership. mourn the loss of a great friend, a member of our BID family and a true New Yorker. His infinite inspiration and contributions to our city will be desperately missed. We express our deepest sympathy to his family, friends, and colleagues. Peter S. Kalikow, Chairman Alfred C. Cerullo, III, President/CEO
        RUDIN-Lewis. The directors, staff and residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of a great New Yorker, Lewis Rudin, a wise and generous friend, whose daughter, Beth Rudin DeWoody, has long served on our board. From our earliest days, Lew Rudin supported Phoenix House, recognizing the value of our work and the ways in which it strengthened the City he so loved. Edward D. Miller, Chairman Mitchell S. Rosenthal, M.D., President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Advisory Board, faculty, staff and students of the Real Estate Institute of New York University mourn the passing of Lewis Rudin, a great champion of New York City and a dear friend and supporter. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Rudin family. We will all miss him dearly. D. Kenneth Patton, Associate Dean and Director James D. Kuhn, Advisory Board Chairman
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board and staff of The Samuel Field YM & YWHA mourn the loss of Lewis Rudin, a good friend & supporter of our agency. His commitment to the welfare of others as well as to the Jewish community will be enduring legacy. We offer our profound sympathy to the Rudin family. William Frumkin, President Steven Goodman, Executive Vice President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The partners and employees of Colliers ABR extend their heartfelt sympathy and condolences to Rachel, Bill & family. A prominent, civic, philanthropic leader, instrumental in saving our City and was always ready and willing to support members of our industry. Lew was a kind and gentle person to all who came in contact with him. We will dearly miss his leadership. Colliers ABR, Inc.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Resnick family is heartbroken by the loss of Lewis, our dear friend of 30 years. He will always be remembered by us as a perfect gentleman and as a man of honor and wisdom. He was a consummate leader and will always be remembered as ''Mr. New York.'' Our heartfelt condolences to Rachel, Bill, Beth and Jack. Rest in peace our friend. Burt and Judy Resnick Scott, Jonathan and Peter Resnick
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Hunter College community mourns the passing of one of New York's premier citizens. The family's generous support of Hunter's nursing students and programs is long standing, and has brought great benefit to our health care community. Our heartfelt condolences to his dear brother Jack, daughter Beth and son Billy. Jennifer J. Raab, President Hunter College
        RUDIN-Lewis. His admirers, colleagues and dear friends at Rose Associates mourn the loss of Lewis Rudin. For three generations, the Rudins and the Roses have had the warmest of relationships, sharing charitable, personal and professional concern for decades, and we shall miss Lew profoundly. To his brother Jack, his wife Rachel, and his children Bill and Beth, all the Roses send our most heartfelt condolences.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Alliance for the Arts expresses its sadness at the passing of Lewis Rudin, a personal friend of many in this organization and its steadfast supporter for many years. He was a true son of New York, a leader of the city, and a wise counselor. We extend our sincere condolences to the Rudin family. Paul Beirne, Chairman Randall Bourscheidt, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and extend condolences to his family. As Founder and Chairman of the Association for a Better New York, he showed his deep dedication to this city and the cause of higher education for over 30 years. We and all New York will miss his incomparable spirit. Frances Degen Horowitz, Pres. CUNY Graduate Center
        RUDIN-Lewis. On behalf of the partners and associates of Pottish Freyberg Marcus & Velazquez LLP, we mourn the passing of a great friend and leader. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Rachel, his children Bill and Beth, and to Jack and Susan and the entire family. He will be sorely missed. Sol Pottish, Carlos Velazquez Joel Marcus
        RUDIN-Lewis. We are deeply saddened by the death of Lewis Rudin. His leadership and dedication to New York will be missed, but his enormous contribution will continue to guide us forward as we work to rebuild his beloved city. We extend our sympathy to his wife and family. The partners and staff of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill
        RUDIN-Lewis. On behalf of the Division of Nursing's faculty and students who have benefited so greatly from the Rudin Family commitment to nursing and health care, we express our sincere condolences to the entire Rudin family. Diane McGivern Head Division of Nursing New York University
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors and Staff of Safe Horizon mourn the passing of Lew Rudin, an early and dedicated supporter of victims of crime. We extend our heartfelt condolences to our Board Member, his brother Jack Rudin, and to the entire Rudin family. Susan Solomon, Chairman Gordon Campbell, Exec Director
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors and members of One Hundred Black Men, Inc., extend condolences to the family of Lewis Rudin. Through his leadership of ABNY, he forged a bond of brotherhood among the city's racial, ethnic and religious communities. We shall miss him. One Hundred Black Men, Inc. Paul T. Williams, Jr., President
        RUDIN-Lewis. Donald J. Trump extends his deepest sympathy to the members of the Rudin family, Rachel, Jack, Beth and Bill, on the loss of his dear friend, Lew. Lew was one of this city's most tireless supporters and greatest humanitarians. In the New York real estate world, he was royalty. He left a legacy that will be long remembered and impossible to replicate.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Cooper Union offer heartfelt condolences to the entire Rudin family. Lew Rudin's great leadership and generosity were exemplified in his constant loyalty and service to New York City. Robert A. Bernhard, Chairman George Campbell Jr., President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Department of Pediatrics at Weill Medical College of Cornell University is deeply saddened by the passing of Lewis Rudin. His generosity toward the care of pediatric patients will never be forgotten and is deeply appreciated. Our thoughts are with his loving family and friends. Maria I. New, MD, Chairman
        RUDIN-Lewis. We mourn the passing of our friend, longtime client and great real estate industry and civic leader. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Rachel, brother Jack, children Beth and William, and all his family and friends. Paul Salvatore Proskauer Rose LLP
        RUDIN-Lewis. Our Nation, our state, our city and most important, our family, have all been blessed by Lew's involvement in our lives. Our thoughts and affection for you, will always be reflected in our love for your entire family. Joan, Bob, Jamie, Steve, Laurie Tisch Sussman and Jonathan Tisch
        RUDIN-Lewis. The partners of Cahill Gordon & Reindel express our deepest sympathy to the family of Lewis Rudin. As our landlord and our friend for over 41 years, we always admired and valued your leadership in making our City a better place in which to work and live. Cahill Gordon & Reindel
        RUDIN-Lewis. We mourn the loss of our dear family friend. His commitment to family, friendship and philanthropy inspires us. Heartfelt condolences to Rachel, Beth, Billy and families. Leslie and Jeffrey Mendell, Janelle and Greg Berger and, Brad Berger
        RUDIN-Lewis. His vision transformed our city. The American Jewish Congress, together with all New Yorkers, is diminished by his loss. He was a vital, vibrant presence whom we will all miss. Our condolences to his family. Jack Rosen, President Phil Baum, Executive Director
        RUDIN-Lewis. A giant of a man who gave so much to so many. Our family joins with all of the Rudins in sharing their grief and celebrating his wonderful life. He will live in our hearts and memories forever. The Hoffman & Rapaport Families
        RUDIN-Lewis. The entire Grotto Family is saddened by the passing of Lewis Rudin and extends their heartfelt condolences and sympathy to the Rudin family. You were a friend, a mentor and an inspiration to all of us. The Grotto Family
        RUDIN-Lewis. Thank you ''Mr. New York'' for a lifetime of friendship and love. We will always cherish the memories. Love and condolences to Rachel, Jack and Susan, Beth, Bill and Ophelia, and the entire Rudin family. Fran and Sandy Abelson Family
        RUDIN-Lewis. Two great New York landmarks were lost in the last two weeks. The World Trade Center and Lew Rudin. New York will be a different place without both of them. And so will we. Frederick Doner and Michele Oka Doner
        RUDIN-Lewis. Words cannot express our love for you. You will forever remain in our hearts and memory. We join with your family in mourning the loss of this great humanitarian. Love, Jane, David, Rosemary, James, and Douglas Levy
        RUDIN-Lewis. We mourn the sudden passing of Lewis Rudin and offer our condolences to his wife Rachel, his brother Jack and their families. Lew Rudin was a generous, kind man and a true friend. We will greatly miss him. Maurice and June Luntz
        RUDIN-Lewis. We have lost a special friend. Lew embodied the best of New York: caring, compassionate, concerned and committed to his fellow man. He will be missed. Heartfelt condolences to Rachel and the family. Joan Jakubovitz and family
        RUDIN-Lewis. We will always cherish the memory of this great man. He was named our Friend of the Arts in 1996 and was loved by The Town Hall family. Our deepest sympathy to his family. The Town Hall Marvin Leffler, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. To a cherished and dear friend who enriched our lives in every way. Lew will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt sympathy to Rachel, Bill, Ophelia, Beth, Carlton, Kyle, Samantha and Michael. Michele, Jerry, Adam, David and Stephanie Wolkoff
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. New York City has lost one of its finest heros. We will remember and honor his commitment to New York's children, families and all New Yorkers. The Board of Directors of HELP USA
        RUDIN-Lew. We will always treasure the friendship and laughter we shared together. Lew was so proud of Beth and Bill and his grandchildren. Kisses and love, Gladys and Marty Poll
        RUDIN-Lewis. A loss to all who loved him. He was a unique man-giant of wisdom, vision, compassion and affection. A part of our heart has gone with him. May he rest in peace. The Keating Family
        RUDIN-Lewis. Words cannot convey our sense of loss upon the passing of our very dear friend, a man who was clearly one of the great icons of ''his town'', New York. Karen and Martin Berger
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Real Estate Industry mourns the loss of one of our great leaders and visionaries. He will truly be missed for his kindness and leadership. David S. Kriss Realty
        RUDIN-Lew. With deepest sympathy to the family of a great champion of the New York City Marathon and the city itself. Barbara Paddock Jordan Sprechman
        RUDIN-Lewis. Our heartfelt sympathies to the family. New York has lost a great man whose kindness, generosity and vision knew no bounds. Gene and Barbara Baumstein
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Lansco Corporation wishes to express our sincerest condolences to the family of Lew Rudin. He was a pillar of the real estate industry and an inspiration to us all.
        RUDIN-Lewis. Farewell to a good friend. A great loss to New York City. Heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Norman F. Levy
        RUDIN-Lewis. Mr. Lew, you were the best. We are all gonna miss you. THE CADDIES
      