
        MURPHY-Brian Joseph. Devoted husband of Judith Bram Murphy, active and loving father of Jessica and Leila, beloved son of Harold and Christina, adored brother of Ann, Harold and Cynthia, cherished son-in-law of William and Jane Eisner Bram, dearly beloved nephew of Marguerite, dear brother-in-law of Steven Eisner Bram and Elizabeth and Eric Rothstein, and wonderful uncle to Joshua, Danielle, Zachary, and Callahan and fantastic and loyal friend of hundreds, perished in the tragic events that took place on September 11, 2001 at the World Trade Center. Brian graduated from the Wilbraham and Monson Academy Class of 1976, Williams College Class of 1980, and the Columbia University School of Business Class of 1987. He was a Vice President at Cantor Fitzgerald/eSpeed Division and a partner in his family's ReMAX Real Estate Company. Brian's life was filled with family, integrity, loyalty and acts of kindness. A man of high morals and solid principles, his faith in God, family, and love was unshakable. He will be deeply missed by all those he touched. A Memorial Mass will be held at St. Vincent Ferrer Catholic Church on Lexington Avenue and 66th Street on Tuesday, September 25 at 3:30 P.M. Donations may be made to Williams College, the Brian J. Murphy Class of 1980 Memorial Fund, P.O. Box 231, Williamstown, Massachusetts 01267.
        MURPHY-Brian Joseph. Congregation Rodeph Sholom is deeply shaken and saddened over the tragic and untimely death of Brian Joseph Murphy in the WTC disaster. Brian was an incredible human being who put his family first. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his wife Judith Bram Murphy, his wonderful children Jessica and Leila, William and Jane Eisner Bram, Steven Eisner Bram, Elizabeth and Eric Rothstein and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi Mark Biderman, President
        MURPHY-Josephine Mary (nee Cunningham). Devoted wife of the late Adrian A. Loving mother of John G., Patricia M. and dear mother-in-law of Patricia. Beloved grandmother of Adrian and Patrick. Fond sister of John, Vincent, Patricia Upton, and Margaret. Reposing at Schuyler Hill Funeral Home, 3535 E. Tremont Avenue, Bronx, NY until Monday 10 AM. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Benedict's Church, Bronx, NY 10:30 AM. Interment at St. Raymond's Cemetery. Visiting Saturday and Sunday, 2:00 to 5:00 and 7:00 to 9:30 PM. James E. McQuade, Dir.
      