
        MATERA-Barbara. In Memoriam: We, the employees of Barbara Matera, Ltd., express our heartfelt sorrow at the passing of Barbara Matera, as well as our gratitude for being a part of her unique world. Barbara, as our mentor and teacher, believed strongly in our ability to accomplish our goals as she inspired us to overcome every obstacle. Striving for perfection in the smallest detail, she encouraged us to take pride in the work we produced and to live up to the reputation of quality, which is the trademark of Barbara Matera, Ltd. That reputation enabled us to work with the most talented people in show business, which enriched our lives. No effort was ever too great when it came to the comfort of the performer, the correctness of the costume or ''that special something'' that could enhance a performance. The delight she took in her approach to solving problems made it seem as though each challenge could be worked out through determination. Her creative spirit will live on in all these qualities that she generously shared with us & in the costumes that will forever belong to Broadway, ballet, opera and motion pictures. We feel proud to have been counted as a part of her large, extended family.
        MATERA-Barbara. Costume maker and designer, died September 13, 2001 at New York University Medical Center. She is survived by her husband and business partner, Arthur Matera, her sister, Pauline Ritchie-Fallon, her nieces, Ann Wills, Eve Grasham, and Lynn Ritchie-Fallon, 3 great nephews and a great niece. A Requiem Mass will be celebrated on Friday, September 21, 2001, at Holy Cross Church, 329 West 42nd Street, beginning at 10 A.M. Mr. Matera requests that in lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Broadway Cares/Equity Fights Aids, 1650 Broadway, New York 10036.
        MATERA-Barbara. We join the theatre community in mourning the loss of our colleague and friend, whose unsurpassed talent for designing and constructing costumes made her a Broadway legend. Our condolences to her husband and partner Arthur, and their family. Martin Richards, Sam Crothers and all of us at The Producer Circle Co.
      