
        BAXTER-Ralph M. Retired New York City photographer and Gestalt therapist, died at his home in Carlsbad, CA. on September 12, 2001. Born in Philadelphia, Mr. Baxter received his bachelor's degree from Penn State. He enjoyed a 30-year career as a photographer in advertising, fashion, art, dance, theater and music. He taught at the New School for Social Research, the NY School of the Arts, and the School of Visual Arts in NY. After the loss of his sight forced an early end to his photography career, Mr. Baxter became a Gestalt therapist, practicing privately in NY and CT and at Samaritan Halfway Center in NY. A close friend of many NY artists, he was also a jazz enthusiast, a world traveler, and an avid collector of African sculpture from the Ivory Coast, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Burundi, serving as a docent at the Museum for African Art in NY. He also studied sculpture, and later taught at the San Diego Center for the Blind in Vista, CA. Family and friends will fondly remember Mr. Baxter for his honesty, compassion, integrity, wry sense of humor, and his gentle, courtly manner. Mr. Baxter is survived by his wife, Deborah, his children, Sherri, Dana, and Anthony, and his five grandchildren. The family requests donations to the San Diego Center for the Blind in Vista, CA, or the San Diego Hospice Service.
        BAXTER-Ralph M., 81. Retired New York City photographer and Gestalt therapist, died at his home in Carlsbad, CA, on September 12, 2001. Born in Philadelphia, Mr. Baxter received his Bachelor's Degree from Penn State. He enjoyed a 30-year career as a photographer in advertising, fashion, art, dance, theater and music. He taught at the New School for Social Research, the NY School of the Arts, and the School of Visual Arts in NY. After the loss of his sight forced an early end to his photography career, Mr. Baxter became a Gestalt therapist, practicing privately in NY and CT and at Samaritan Halfway Center in NY. A close friend of many NY artists, he was also a jazz enthusiast, a world traveler, and an avid collector of African sculpture from the Ivory Coast, Botswana, Zimbabwe and Burundi, serving as docent at the Museum for African Art in NY. He also studied sculpture, and later taught at the San Diego Center for the Blind in Vista, CA. Family and friends will fondly remember Mr. Baxter for his honesty, compassion, integrity, wry sense of humor, and his gentle, courtly manner. Mr. Baxter is survived by his wife, Deborah, his children, Sherri, Dana, and Anthony, and his five grandchildren. The family requests donations to the San Diego Center for the Blind in Vista, CA, or the San Diego Hospice Service.
      