
        LEVIN-Neil D. Age 46, of New York City, missing and presumed dead in the World Trade Center attack, September 11, 2001. Neil was the Executive Director of the NYNJ Port Authority, a job he loved. He was a good friend, a mentor and role model for many. He will be deeply missed by his wife Christy Ferer, step-daughters Caitlin and Ali, his mother Gloria, his brother Stanley, sister-in-law Robin, nephew Adam and niece Kim. His father was the late Morton H. Levin. A service to celebrate his life will be held at 6:00PM Tuesday, September 25th at Manhattan's Temple Emanu-El, 66th Street and Fifth Avenue. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that you remember children of other missing Port Authority victims through the Neil D. Levin Education Foundation, 101 Park Ave., Suite 2500, New York, NY 10178.
        LEVIN-Neil D. Our uncle, our friend. We honor, respect and love you. The pain in our hearts is overwhelming. Adam and Kimmy Levin
        LEVIN-Neil. The Board of Directors and Staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Neil Levin, beloved husband of esteemed board member Christine Ferer. Our hearts and prayers are with Neil's mother, Gloria, his brother and sister-in-law, Stanley and Robin, his stepdaughters Caitlin and Ali, and his neice and nephew, Kim and Adam. Contributions may be made in Neil's memory to The Neil D. Levin Education Foundation, 101 Park Avenue, Suite 2500, New York, New York 10178. As his life was a blessing, so may his memory be as well. Matthew Bronfman, President Philip Milstein, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        LEVIN-Neil. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of Trustee Neil Levin, Executive Director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. A 1981 graduate of Hofstra University School of Law, Mr. Levin, a dedicated and loyal alumnus, received the Law Dean's distinguished Alumni Award in 1985. The entire Hofstra University community mourns the loss of Trustee Levin and offers our condolences to his family. John J. Conefry, Jr. Chairman, Board of Trustees Stuart Rabinowitz President, Hofstra University
        LEVIN-Neil. Neily, you, Stan and we all had a lot of fun and great times together, going back 35 years. We've all done so many things, so many events together. It's hard to believe that you won't be joining us anymore. You truly had integrity, honesty and loyalty. We lost a brother in your passing. Our deep sympathies go to Gloria, Stan and Robin, and Christy. Love, OPeter and Jeff
      