
        DARCY-Dwight Donald. Age 55, Senior Attorney at the Port Authority of NY and NJ, died on September 11, in the attack on the WTC. Resided in Bronxville, NY with his beloved wife Veronica and sons Kieran and Ryan. Also survived by his sister Joan D. Sorgi of Darien, CT; his brother Keith T. Darcy of Pound Ridge, NY; his aunt Claire Menagh of Manhattan; his uncle George Kindermann of New London, NH; and several nieces and nephews. Mr. Darcy, a Bronx native, graduated from Fordham Prep, Fordham University, and the Fordham University School of Law. He began his legal career as an Assistant D.A. in the Bronx in 1971, and joined the Port Authority in 1977. While at the Port Authority, Mr. Darcy specialized in labor relations, serving for many years as the Head of the Labor Relations Division. Active in charitable works in NYC, Mr. Darcy served as president of the Catholic Big Brothers of NY, as well as president of the Parish Council of St. Joseph's Church in Bronxville. He was voted a life member of the Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick of NY, and made an affiliate member of the Marist Brothers for his many years of service on the board of Mt. St. Michael Academy in the Bronx. A Memorial Mass in celebration of Mr. Darcy's life will be offered Friday, September 28, at 10:00 AM at St. Joseph's Church in Bronxville. Contributions can be sent to the Dwight D. Darcy Memorial Scholarship Fund at Fordham Prep, East Fordham Rd., Bronx, NY 10458 or to the Catholic Big Brothers of NY, 45 East 20 St., NY, NY 10003.
        DARCY-Dwight. The Fordham Law School community records with profound sorrow the tragic loss in the World Trade Center of Dwight Darcy, Class of 1971. His gentle manner and generosity of spirit will always be remembered. We extend our deep sympathy to his wife, children and family. John D. Feerick, Dean
        DARCY-Dwight D. Your death at the hands of terrorists will never mar the gentleness of your spirit or the manner in which you lived such an exemplary life, your brilliance, warmth and elegance. Our love and sympathy to Veronica, Kieran and Ryan. Bill, Mary Liz, Jenny, Billy, Kate and Rory Mulligan
      