
        GARDNER-Douglas B. Adored husband of Jennifer, loving father of Michael and Julia, cherished son of Charlotte and Joseph and treasured brother of Danielle was lost in the tragedy at the World Trade Center. He was a graduate of Riverdale Country Day School and Haverford College, where he was a co-chairman of Haverford's current capital campaign. Douglas was an Executive Managing Director and Vice Chairman of Cantor Fitzgerald/Espeed. He was an active partner in his family's real estate firm, DG Equities. He was a board member of the charitable organizations The Educational Alliance and Student Athletes, Inc and a generous supporter of many others. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, September 16 at 4:30 at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 West 68th Street. Donations may be made to Haverford College, The Douglas B. Gardner Basketball Facility, 370 Lancaster Avenue, Haverford, PA. 19041.
        GARDNER-Douglas B. We, your parents, sister, wife and children, are devastated and will miss you forever. We feel lucky and blessed beyond words for every moment we shared with you. Your life was filled with countless loving and devoted friends who valued you beyond compare. You were our gentle giant who happily carried our burdens, who loved us unconditionally, whose warm smile lighted up a room and whose generosity was unparalleled. You were the perfect father to Michael and Julia and they reflect all that was good in you. The world has lost a man of pure heart. Jennifer, Michael, Julia Gardner Charlotte and Joseph Gardner Danielle Gardner
        GARDNER-Douglas. Doug Gardner, our close friend. A true gentleman whose sincere, non-judgmental and kind demeanor endeared him to everyone he met. His loyalty, strength and quiet morality made him a cherished and enduring friend. We will watch out for your beloved Jennifer and your angels, Julia and Michael. You are utterly irreplaceble and will be deeply missed, but your spirit and soul is everlasting. Gwen, Gary, Vicky and David
        GARDNER-Douglas B. The 34th Street Partnership mourns the loss of Douglas, son of our Director, Joe Gardner, and extends its deepest sympathy to Joe and his family in this terrible tragedy. Bruce Gittlin, Chairman Dan Biederman, President
      