
        COHEN-Babs. We are heartbroken by the loss of our dearest friend. We will remember you for your courage, love of life and dignity to the end. Deep sympathy to Joe, Jon, Jarrod and Audrey. Nancy and Harold Oelbaum
        COHEN-Barbara. The Board and staff of Citymeals-on-Wheels are deeply saddened by the death of Barbara Cohen, beloved wife of our longtime Board member, Joseph M. Cohen. We knew her as Babs and admired her courage, honesty and dignity. We will forever miss having her as part of our Citymeals family. Gael Greene, Chairman Preston Robert Tisch, President Marcia Stein, Executive Director
        COHEN-Barbara. The American Cancer Society in NYC deeply mourns the passing of a truly dedicated volunteer and beloved member of the ACS family. Babs is remembered with sincere affection, admiration and great respect. The memory of her passion to fulfill our mission will be a constant source of inspiration for all of us. The Special Events Committee, Volunteers and Staff, American Cancer Society, NYC
        COHEN-Barbara. Our heartfelt sympathy and love to our friend Joe Cohen on the untimely passing of his wife, Babs. Her courage, humor and generosity are a model for all who knew and loved her. She will be sorely missed by our entire family. Marty and Ellie Gruber, Jonathan and Andrea Gruber, Stacey and Joelle Gruber
        COHEN-Barbara. Central Synagogue and its Sisterhood record with profound sorrow the passing of their member, Barbara Cohen. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President Shirley Steinhauser, Sisterhood President
        COHEN-Barbara. A woman of exceptional warmth, infectious enthusiasm and inspiring bravery. Babs, we will always love you and never forget the special qualities that made everyone who knew you feel privileged to be part of your life. Our hearts go out to Joe, Jon, Jarrod, Audrey and Jordan. Melissa and Bob Mittman
        COHEN-Barbara. Our whole family will miss you dearly. You will always hold a special place in our hearts and we will cherish the memories of all the happy times we shared. Alan, Jackie, Tori, Lynne & Elizabeth
        COHEN-Barbara. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Glaucoma Foundation express their deepest sympathy to the Cohen family on their loss of Barbara.
      