
        GRAF-Edwin J. III, recently of Rowayton, CT, and formerly of New Canaan CT is missing in the The World Trade Center disaster of September 11. Mr. Graf, known as Ed was employed at Cantor Fitzgerald Securities as a Vice President where he worked as a bond broker in 1 World Trade Center. Cantor Fitzgerald is a leading inter-broker dealer for government securities. Ed was born on February 10, 1953 in Libertyville, IL, the son of the late Edwin J. Graf, former COO of the Singer Corporation, and Margaret K. Graf who resides in Ellicott City, MD. The Graf family lived in New Canaan for over 20 years. Ed's brother Michael Graf and his wife Rezan and their two children currently live in New York. His sisters, Margie Labesky, Suzy Fennell, Marybeth Graf-Brohawn and Katie O'Brien live in Maryland near their mother. Ed was 48 years old and a 1971 graduate of New Canaan High School. He then attended Villanova and graduated from Middlebury College. An outdoorsman at heart, loving bicycling, tennis, paddle and skiing, Ed was also an accomplished climber and mountaineer leading many route climbs in Yosemite and the Grand Tetons as well as Eastern wall climbs in NY, VT and NH. He was also a sub-3 hour marathoner, registering a personal best in the 1980 NY Marathon at 2 hours 49 minutes. Relocating to NYC 4 years ago, Ed then chose to move to Rowayton, CT because of his passion for living on the water and his enjoyment at being near his hometown of New Canaan, CT. Ed's true passion and dedication was to his family and children, Kristen, Tyler and Wesley. He leaves behind his mother, siblings and children as well as his close friends. The memorial service will be held on Saturday, September 22 10am at the Church of the Resurrection in Ellicott City, MD. In lieu of flowers the family requests that donations be made to an educational trust which is being established for the benefit of Mr. Graf's children. Such donations can made to Susan Graf Fennell, Trustee of the Graf Family Trust, 2429 Hannon Court, Ellicott City MD 21042.
      