
        SINGER-Stephen L. Beloved husband of Linda, father of Juliette and Ian, Stuart and Sally, and Lauren and Steve. Grandfather to Kyle, Tyler, Samantha, Will, Spencer and Scott. Passed away on September 25, 2001 after a courageous bout with cancer. A native of New Rochelle NY, Mr. Singer graduated from Harvard College in 1957, Harvard Business School in 1959, and the University of Birmingham, England. In 1959, he joined Finlay Fine Jewelry and became President and CEO in 1976. In 1983, he started an estate jewelry firm that now runs over 1000 events a year. Mr. Singer was always active in many industry and charitable organizations. Most recently, he actively served on the boards of Project A.L.S. and American ORT. Within the jewelry industry, he was a member of the 24k Club of New York, the Plumb Club, JIC, JSA, AGS, JVC. He has always given generously to education and the arts, Harvard, the American Museum of Natural History and the Metropolitan Museum were among his favorites. His greatest enjoyments and memories include traveling with Linda, playing in his pool with his grandchildren, working out and playing backgammon at the Harvard Club, tennis at QRC, and gardening in his backyard. He will be greatly missed by many, but most by his adoring family. In lieu of flowers, donations should be made to Project A.L.S. Services to be held Friday, September 28, 11:45am at ''The Riverside'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        SINGER-Stephen L. You are forever our champion, friend, advisor. With your beautiful wife, Linda, and your family, you moved us up the mountain, closer to our goals. Our enduring memories of your unusual strength and kindness will get us to the top. Love, Jenifer, Meredith and Valerie Estess, Julianne Hoffenberg, Dana Kind, Nina Capelli and The Board of Directors of Project A.L.S.
        SINGER-Stephen L. Thank you, dear friend, for the many adventures and good times we shared. Your exemplary courage in the face of illness mirrored the vibrant way in which you lived your life. Nancy and Elliot Wolk
      