
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. All of us at Helmsley-Spear, Inc. mourn the loss of Alvin Schwartz, the company's co-chairman and a giant in the real estate industry. During the last 55 years, Mr. Schwartz earned the respect and enjoyed the admiration of his colleagues at Helmsley-Spear, Inc. His friendship was invaluable. He will be remembered for his kindness, generosity and compassion. Condolences are extended to his daughters Jane and Amy, his son Tom, his grandchildren and the entire Schwartz Family. In Alvin's memory, the offices of HelmsleySpear, Inc. will be closed on Friday September 14, 2001.
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. The entire North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System family sadly say farewell to our beloved board member, friend and champion of quality healthcare on Long Island. His wisdom, humor and generosity of spirit will forever be an inspiration to us all. Our deepest condolences to Amy, Jane, and Tom and their families. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman, Board of Trustees John S. T. Gallagher, CEO
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. In recent years, Sylvia and I have written many remembrances in this section, all heartfelt and in great sadness. Today, our best friend died, and for the first time we can find no words to describe our sense of loss. We can only hope that Amy and Jane and Tom will find comfort in the fact that their loss is so widely shared. Sylvia and Lewis Lubitz
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. Alvin has been my special friend, partner and business associate for more than fifty years. His wisdom and good nature made those times most rewarding. Our sincere condolences to his children Jane, Amy, and Tommy, his grandchildren and the entire Schwartz Family. Irving, Helen, Lynn and Mindy Schneider
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. The Board of Directors and membership of the Glen Head Country Club announce, with profound sorrow, the passing of our esteemed Charter Member Alvin Schwartz, father of our esteemed member Thomas Schwartz. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. Louis M. Kerner, President
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its devoted longtime member and Honorary Trustee. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. Howard Graff and his colleagues at Dickstein Shapiro Morin & Oshinsky LLP mourn the passing of a legendary figure in the real estate industry, Alvin Schwartz. Expressions of sympathy are extended to his family and colleagues at HelmsleySpear, Inc.
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. ''My Boss'' and associate of many years was an astute, honorable and caring man. A good friend, and highly respected businessman. I will miss him. Paula Cristini
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. A long time business associate and caring friend. Condolences to Tom & the other members of the Schwartz Family. Julia Jacobsiller Advertising
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. It is with overwhelming sadness that we mourn the loss of Alvin Schwartz. He and his family have always meant so much to all of us. The Paltrow Family
        SCHWARTZ-Alvin. A remarkable man, and an outstanding friend. Alvin, we will miss you and love you forever. Arthur and Harriet
      