
        HILFIGER-William Henry ''Billy.'' Age 45 of New York City and Roscoe, NY and formerly of Elmira, NY, died Saturday, September 15, 2001, at the Arnot Ogden Medial Center. Billy was born February 21, 1956, son of Virginia Gerrity Hilfiger and the late Richard C. Hilfiger. In addition to his mother, Billy is survived by his wife Karla; sisters and brothers, Kathleen Hilfiger of Elmira; Thomas ''Tommy'' Hilfiger of New York City; Dorothy Clapp of Woodbury, CT, with husband Chris; Elizabeth Hilfiger of Elmira; Robert Hilfiger of New Windsor, NY, with wife JoAnn; Marie Triehaft of Denver, CO, with husband Mark; Andrew Hilfiger of New York City, with wife Kimberly; and Virginia Mahl of New York City with husband Christopher; several nieces, nephews and cousins; father-in-law and mother-in-law, Francisco and Maria Pena; special niece, Krystal Pena; brothers-in-law, Francisco, Ken and Douglas Pena and sisterin-law, Kenya Pena all of New York City. Friends are invited to McInerny Funeral Home, corner of Walnut and W. Water Sts., on Sunday, September 16, 2001 from 4:00 P.M. to 7:00 P.M. A Prayer Service will be held at the funeral home on Monday, September 17, 2001 at 9:15 A.M., followed by a Mass of Christian Burial at 10:00 A.M. at St. Patrick's Church, Elmira. Interment will follow in St. Peter & Paul's Cemetery. Billy was a loving husband, who along with his wife Karla, loved the outdoors. He was a landscape architect and owned his own business in New York City, Hilfiger Landscape. In addition to his great love of the outdoors, Billy was an avid guitar player. Before moving to New York City in 1981, Billy played with the band Fright. While in the city Billy played with major rock groups including King Flux, members of Blue Oyster Cult and The Cult Brothers, which included his brother Andy, Jimmy Cacala and Michael Houghton. Billy also produced Michael Fredo's first CD. Donations in Billy's memory may be directed to the Falck Cancer Center, 600 Roe Avenue, Elmira, NY 14905 or to St. Patrick's Church, 604 Park Place, Elmira, NY 14901.
      