
        RUST-Irving S., M.D., 71, on September 6, 2001, died of pancreatitis. Beloved husband of Cora Bowser Rust. Devoted father of Leslie, Christopher, Anthony and Jonathan. Cherishd grandfather of Elijah and Isaiah. Adored brother of Leroy Brown. Funeral service Friday, September 14, 11 AM, at the Riverside Church, 490 Riverside Dr. at 120th St., NY. Visitation Thursday, 2-4 and 6-9, at Frank E. Campbell The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. In lieu of flowers, family suggests donations be made to Pantigo Residence of the Catholic Guardian Society (residence for developmentally challenged adults), 379 Montauk Hwy., East Hampton, NY 11937, or Planned Parenthood, The Bronx Hub, 349 East 149 St., Bronx, NY 10451.
        RUST-Irving, MD. The Mailman School of Public Health honors our colleague, Dr. Irving Rust, and his lifetime commitment to women's health care. His dedication to reproductive rights and specifically for the right to provide abortion counseling (Rust vs. Sullivan) paved the way for a federal policy reversal. Dr. Rust selflessly gave his time and energy to serving poor women and protecting their reproductive rights. We offer our condolences to his wife and children. We will miss him. Allan Rosenfield, MD Dean Mailman School of Public Health Wendy Chavkin, MD, Acting Chair Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health
        RUST-Irving, M.D. Everyone who knew Irving Rust agrees that he was a superb physician, a good man, compassionate about his causes, and tireless in his efforts to turn wrong into right. He joined the Planned Parenthood of NYC medical staff during my tenure as Executive Director and was held with high regard by his colleagues and patients alike during his long tenure. My family and I extend our sympathy and warmest wishes to Cora and her family. Reverend Dr. Carl E. Flemister
        RUST-Irving. The Board, Staff and Patients of Community Healthcare Network mourn the loss of Dr. Irving Rust. An employee at CHN since 1981, Dr. Rust cared deeply for all of his patients & fought for the rights of poor women to obtain quality reproductive healthcare. He was a great doctor, a great man and a great friend. Catherine M. Abate, Pres./CEO Elizabeth Krob Kellner, Chair Bd Community Healthcare Network
        RUST-Irving. The Board and staff of Physicians for Reproductive Choice & Health (PRCH) express our heartfelt condolences to the family of our dear friend, Dr. Irving Rust. We honor his outstanding contribution and lifetime commitment to women's health and their reproductive rights. Board of Directors and Staff, PRCH
      