
        MANN-Marion. On September 13, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Robert and Meryl, Jeffrey and Ann, and Michael and Meryl. Cherished grandmother of Randy, Alex and Gabi, David, Denise, Tracey and Peter, Betsy and Adam.
        MANN-Marion. Our hearts go out to our dear friends, Michael, Meryl, Betsy and Adam, and the rest of the Mann family on the loss of their mother and grandmother. We know that the wonderful memories you shared with her throughout her life have helped sustain you during the trials of the past few years. Her special legacy will remain with you forever. The Kwiat and Levkoff Families
        MANN-Marion. Beloved wife of the late Irving Mann and devoted mother and grandmother. You were a very special woman whose wisdom, compassion and love has always been an inspiration to us all. We will miss you more than words can ever say. Our love for you will be in our hearts forever. Ann, Jeffrey, Tracy, Peter, Denise and David
        MANN-Marion. Our dearly loved mother and adored grandmother, you are and will forever be loved and missed more than you will ever know. You were a very special person who will always be a part of our lives. Rest peacefully together with Irving again. Meryl, Bobby, Randy, Alex, Gabi and David
        MANN-Marion ''Nanni''. We will never forget your devotion to your family, your warmth or our special times in Florida. Everything and everyone were beautiful to you. We know you are happy now because you are with Dad/Irving. You will both live on in our hearts forever. Meryl, Michael, Betsy & Adam
        MANN-Marion. We mourn the passing of Marion Mann, beloved mother of Michael and Meryl and loving grandmother of Betsy and Adam. To the entire Mann family, we share your loss. Now Marion is finally at peace. Lesley, Steven, Geoffrey and Debbie Sanders
        MANN-Marion. We will miss our good times together on holidays and simchas with the wonderful children and grandchildren we share. Rest in peace with Irving. We'll miss you both. Helene and Leonard
      