
        STERN-Isaac. The Musicians, Board of Directors and Administration of The New York Pops mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Isaac Stern. A gifted artist, consummate humanitarian, and uncompromising champion of the arts, he supported the founding of The New York Pops at Carnegie Hall in 1983. His charismatic leadership of that institution was a gift to the citizens of New York and music lovers everywhere. Carnegie Hall is our home thanks to Isaac Stern. We will miss his guidance, his encouragement, and his inspiration. His indomitable spirit will serve as an example to us all. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and his beloved extended family at Carnegie Hall. Skitch Henderson Founder and Music Director John M. Jacobs Chairman Ruth Henderson President James M. Johnson Executive Director
        STERN-Isaac. The Hopewell Foundation mourns the passing of its dear friend and colleague Isaac Stern. Since 1979, when he collaborated with us on the making of ''From Mao to Mozart: Isaac Stern in China,'' we have experienced first hand his wit and personal warmth, and his unwavering devotion to young musicians. He had an enormous gift for showing students from many cultures how to find the best in themselves, and he urged authorities all over the world to recognize the central importance of music in the lives of young people. We will never forget this great musician, humanitarian and friend. Walter Scheuer Allan Miller The Hopewell Foundation
        STERN-Isaac. The entire Juilliard School community mourns the death of Isaac Stern. His artistry and humanity had an enormously positive impact, not only on the music profession, but on the whole world. With exuberance, creativity, optimism and determination he was a powerful force for good in all the areas that he touched. His presence will be irreplaceable, but his legacy is eternal. Bruce Kovner Chairman of the Board Joseph W. Polisi, President The Juilliard School
        STERN-Isaac. Generations of musicians, the Advisory Committees and Staff of the New York String Orchestra Seminar, Jaime Laredo, Conductor, celebrate the life of Isaac Stern and extend sincere sympathy to his family. His support of the Seminar from its inception, his passion for music, young musicians and life will remain an inspiration for all of us and future generations.
        STERN-Isaac. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Linda and the Stern family upon the death of a great man, a great talent and a great citizen of New York. The Shubert Organization Gerald Schoenfeld, Chairman Philip Smith, President Robert Wankel, Exec. V.P. and its Board of Directors
        STERN-Isaac. Your guidance, sensitivity and concern, particularly for the young artists of the world, your vision and steadfastness for Carnegie Hall and your friendship has inspired us for many years. We shall miss you but you will always be in our hearts. Jean and Ralph Baruch
        STERN-Isaac. We mourn the loss of our friend Isaac Stern, a great musician, brilliant music educator and extraordinary world humanitarian. Our deepest sympathies go to his wife Linda and his children. Phyllis Susen Barbash Steven Barbash
        STERN-Isaac. We mourn the passing of a great musician and good friend. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his wife, Linda, and his family. David Foster Lee Lamont, Byron Gustafson and the Staff of ICM Artists, Ltd
        STERN-Isaac. To the Stern family with heartfelt empathy. The world is now also mourning the passing of a great musician, humanitarian and proponent of arts education. I am crying at the loss of a friend. Bella Linden
        STERN-Isaac. I grieve at the passing of a great human being and ultimate musician and a friend. My heart goes out to his wife, Linda, and the entire family. Lee Lamont
        STERN-Isaac. We have lost a giant in the world of music and a caring and thoughtful friend. We will miss him. Judy and Arthur Zankel
      