
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors, staff and residents of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with deep sorrow the untimely passing of Lewis Rudin, a man of unbounded generosity and exceptional personal warmth. Lew Rudin, along with his brother Jack and their extraordinary family, became highly successful businessmen and always believed that their good fortune was a gift to be shared with others. And share they did, with people in need in New York, Israel and around the world. Lew and Jack Rudin's gifts to The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale through the May and Samuel Rudin Foundation that honors their parents, will enable us to extend our high quality services to embrace more older persons. Their support of Project HOPE (Healthcare Offers Permanent Employment), conducted by The Hebrew Home since 1992, has provided an enriched setting, alternative education and vocational programs for students at risk, helping the youngsters graduate from high school and enter the health field. We were pleased to honor Lew and Jack Rudin at our annual dinner in 1993. The Hebrew Home extends its condolences to Lew's beloved wife Rachel; daughter Beth DeWoody; son William and daughter-in-law Ophelia; four grandchildren; brother Jack; and all who loved him, and the thousands whose lives were improved by his selflessness and vision. Milton A. Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman Daniel A. Reingold, Exec. VP
        RUDIN-Lewis. American Friends of The Hebrew University is deeply saddened by the passing of our dear Benefactor, Lewis Rudin. Lewis and his wife Rachel, together with his brother Jack, have generously supported many educational, cultural and social programs in New York City as well as many of the programs at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, including the Jack and Lewis Rudin and Jack Driscoll Visiting Professorship in the Department of Comparative Religion. Through the May and Samuel Rudin Family Foundation, the family also supported the Gateway to Learning Campaign for Russian Jewish immigrant students, the B'nai Brith Hillel Foundation, and numerous research programs & conferences at Hebrew University. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Rachel, children Beth and William, brother Jack, and the entire family. American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chairman of the Board Adam B. Kahan, Executive Vice President The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President Professor Menahem Ben-Sasson, Rector Yigal Arnon, Chairman of the Board of Governors
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Governors, Members and Staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Lewis Rudin, a giant in our industry and one of New York's prominent civic and philanthropic leaders. Lew was instrumental in helping the city avoid bankruptcy in the mid-1970s by convincing businesses to prepay real estate taxes. In the 1980s, Lew led the fight to preserve the deductibility of state and local taxes. Lew's love of New York was evident in the boundless energy he devoted in promoting the city and his unswerving belief in its future. Lew was a founder and chairman of the Association for a Better New York and directed other initiatives such as providing bullet-proof vests for New York's police department. Lew was a tireless supporter of many charitable and philanthropic endeavors which enriched the lives of many New Yorkers. We express our sympathy to his wife Rachel, brother Jack, his children Beth and William, grandchildren, and the entire Rudin family. Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The faculty, staff and students of Columbia University's Health Sciences Division mourn the passing of our benefactor Lewis Rudin. His generosity through the Rudin Family foundations nurtured the center of our intellectual life by honoring our most esteemed physicians, enhancing the educational programs of our schools and advancing important patient care and community service programs. He was an active participant in our work. The many ways he touched the city to make it a better place to live and work provide a fitting legacy. Columbia's Health Sciences schools of medicine, dentistry, nursing and public health are proud to share that legacy and pledge to honor his memory. We offer condolences to his wife, children, and grandchildren, and his brother, Jack. Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D. Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences Columbia University Health Sciences
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Trustees of the Central Park Conservancy extend heartfelt condolences to the entire Rudin family at the loss of Lewis Rudin, a native New Yorker and lifelong friend of all things New York. His dedication and commitment to the city were an inspiration to all. The Rudin family's legacy of restoring numerous Central Park playgrounds, including the Rudin Family Playground at West 96th Street, will bring pleasure to children and families for generations to come. Our thoughts are with his wife Rachel, his children, Billy and Beth, and Lewis' beloved brother, Jack Rudin, his wife, Susan Rudin, President of the Women's Committee, Central Park Conservancy, and Eric Rudin, Conservancy board member. The Board of Trustees Central Park Conservancy A.J.C. Smith, Chairman Regina S. Peruggi, President Women's Committee Board of Directors
        RUDIN-Lewis. On behalf of the Boards of Directors, administration, and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc. and Calvary Fund Inc., we mourn the passing of our very good friend, Lewis Rudin. We thank the Rudin family for their generosity and contribution to the growth and success of Calvary Hospital's programs. We extend our condolences to his wife, Rachel, his daughter Beth DeWoody, his son William and daughter in law, Ophelia Rudin, his four grandchildren, and his brother Jack, and sister-in-law Susan Rudin. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr. M.D., Chairman of The Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Dennis E. Berberich, Chairman of the Calvary Fund Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President/Chief Executive Officer Michael J. Brescia, M.D., Executive Medical Director James E. Cimino, M.D., Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute
        RUDIN-Lewis. The faculty and staff of Schneider Children's Hospital of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System extend our heartfelt condolences to the family of Lewis Rudin. Through Lewis Rudin's tireless philanthropic efforts, along with his brother, Jack, Schneider Children's Hospital received significant support through the Samuel and May Rudin Foundation. These funds have been responsible for the hospital's Program in Bioethics and Social Policy. The program is a vital part of the training of pediatric residents, medical students and faculty in making sensitive and disciplined decisions about the ethical issues for children and their families. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Rudin family at this very difficult time and to the entire city of New York. Philip Lanzkowsky, M.D., ScD, FRCP, Chief of Staff, Schneider Children's Hospital, Vice President Children's Health Network, NS-LIJ Health System
        RUDIN-Lewis. The trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art are deeply saddened by the passing of Lewis Rudin, an exemplary business leader, a tireless advocate for New York City, and a spirited, dedicated supporter of the Metropolitan. Lew was one of the founders of the Metropolitan Museum's Real Estate Council exactly 20 years ago, and his family foundation has given generously to the Met's educational programs, enabling thousands of students to visit the Museum and explore its collections, and engaging young people through special educational features of the Museum's Web site. Like the organization he founded, he truly made this city a ''better New York.'' His legacy is extended to us through his son Bill, who is a valued trustee. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Rudin family. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director David E. McKinney, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at NYU expresses its deepest sympathy to the Rudin family on the passing of Lewis Rudin. Lew was a giant in the life of New York City. He provided leadership in another time of crisis-the fiscal crisis, and helped us rebuild. His example is a beacon for the challenges we face today. Along with his brother Jack, his leadership and generous gifts to Wagner created and sustained the Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management and the Annual Samuel and May Community Service Awards which honors those who provide exceptional services to the community at the grassroots level. He was an exceptional public servant. Jo Ivey Boufford, M.D., Dean Elliot Sander, Director Rudin Center for Transportation Policy and Management
        RUDIN-Lewis. Lew Rudin was an instant and passionate supporter of bringing the Olympics to New York. The Olympics bid was a perfect vessel for his unbashed ardor for the city's strength and diversity, and his unlimited optimism and vision for the city's future. More than anyone else, he was a constant source of wisdom, encouragement, thoughtfulness and joy. Always concerned about others, he would never listen to how essential he was to all of us. His selflessness and high spirit will continue to inspire and guide us for many years. To Jack, Rachel, Beth and Bill, we mourn and celebrate this greatest lover of New York with you. NYC2012 Daniel L. Doctoroff President Jay L. Kriegel Executive Director
        RUDIN-Lewis. On September 20, 2001, New York City lost one of its tallest towers-a monument to enterprise, a pillar of civic pride and generosity, and a tower of inspiration. As New Yorkers who came here only 20 years ago, we owe a deep debt of gratitude to Lew Rudin for his unique initiative and tireless efforts to sustain and shape the city we love. But what impressed us most, as close friends of Bill and Ophelia, was the incredible role model Lew Rudin provided as a family man. His family always came first, even through the months of his own terrible illness. We extend our sympathies to his wife Rachel, to Beth and her family, and especially to our dear friends Bill and Ophelia, and their children Samantha and Michael. Keith and Rose-Lee Reinhard and Family
        RUDIN-Lewis. A great and caring man who, together with his brother, Jack, his son and daughter-inlaw, Bill and Ophelia, and his daughter, Beth, provided great moral and financial support for two unique programs to help sick, impoverished children: The Harlem Injury Prevention Program's Horizon Art Studio (Dr. Barbara Barlow, Director); and Incarnation Children's Center, New York's only residence for children with HIV/AIDS. On behalf of the countless children who have lived longer and better lives since 1988 as a direct consequence of their support and involvement, we are deeply greatful. Lew's death fills us with saddness. His family will be in our thoughts and prayers. The Columbia University Department of Pediatrics at Harlem Hospital Center Stephen W. Nicholas, MD, Director
        RUDIN-Lewis. The New York Building Congress joins all New Yorkers in remembering the incomparable leadership of Lewis Rudin. His enormous contributions to this City as the Founding Chairman of the Association for Better New York and in countless other ways are unmatched and will benefit this City for generations to come. Lew Rudin raised our sights and never accepted adversity. The Building Congress presented him with its 77th Anniversary Leadership Award in 1998, together with Governor George E. Pataki, and no building industry leader was more deserving. We celebrate his life as an exceptional New Yorker who galvanized the business community unlike any other. Jeffrey M. Levy, Chairman Richard T. Anderson, President New York Building Congress
        RUDIN-Lewis. Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) mourns the passing of Lewis Rudin. A true gentleman and native son of New York City, Mr. Rudin worked tirelessly to make this city a better place to live and work. He and the entire Rudin family have a long and distinguished history of service to New York's health care community, and in 1990 Mr. Rudin received GNYHA's Award of Merit for his contributions to improving health care in New York. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Rachel; son, William; daughter Beth; brother, Jack; and his entire family and many friends for the loss of this very special person. Theresa A. Bischoff, Chair Kenneth E. Raske, President GNYHA
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater grieve the death of our beloved and greatly admired Trustee, a founding member of the Board when the theater was reestablished in 1984. Lew believed so deeply that this theater was crucial to the cultural and theatrical life of the city. He was ardent in his support as he was in his extraordinary love for and devotion to New York. We extend our profound sympathy to Rachel, Beth, Bill, Jack and the grandchildren. Linda LeRoy Janklow Chairman John S. Chalsty President Andre Bishop Artistic Director Bernard Gersten Executive Producer
        RUDIN-Lewis. Our deepest sympathy to the Family and Friends of Lew Rudin, a wise statesman, a giant in the business community, a leader in the real estate world, a generous philanthropist and a true friend of a multitude of people from all walks of life. His inspiring guidance and insight made New York a much better place for all of us, and we will dearly miss him. We will always remember him by seeing and experiencing all of the good deeds he has done for our great city and its people. John L. Tishman Daniel R. Tishman John A. Vickers Joseph Simone and all his friends at Tishman Realty & Construction Co., Inc.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend Lewis Rudin. A man of unfailing generosity and enormous spirit, Mr. Rudin was widely admired as an outstanding citizen of our city and our country. He and his family have made countless contributions to enhancing life in New York City and in doing so have established a model of civic pride and philanthropy that has set the standard for all of us. We join in mourning with all those who knew and loved him, and we extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Herbert Pardes, M.D. President and CEO NewYork-Presbyterian Healthcare System
        RUDIN-Lewis. Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and benefactor Lewis Rudin. Mr. Rudin provided significant support for the Weill Cornell Burn Center and for research into the diseases that plague humankind. A native New Yorker, he dedicated his life to improving the city for all who live, work, and visit here. All New Yorkers owe a debt of gratitude to his vision. He will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his family. Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Antonio M. Gotto, Jr., M.D. Dean, Weill Medical College of Cornell University
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Benenson Capital Company mourns the loss of our distinguished friend, Lewis Rudin. We will miss his intelligence, leadership and wit. We have fifty years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a man who was greatly dedicated to his family, business, philanthropy and especially New York City. Those of us who know how special he was share the sense of loss with his family, friends, and associates. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Rudin family and New York City. Charles B. Benenson Lawrence B. Benenson Richard A. Kessler James E. Stifel
        RUDIN-Lewis. The City College of New York mourns the passing of Lewis Rudin, one of New York's most successful and respected businessmen. Mr. Rudin was a firm friend of City College and of public higher education. His career exemplified the qualities of civic leadership and philanthropy to the immense benefit of our city and its many institutions, including CCNY. On behalf of City College's faculty, students and alumni, I wish to extend my deepest sympathy to his wife, Rachel, his brother Jack and their family. Gregory H. Williams President The City College of New York/ CUNY
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Officers, Directors, Members & Staff of The Realty Advisory Board on Labor Relations mourn the passing of their friend and a great New Yorker, Lew Rudin. His boundless energy and love of this great City has set an example for us all. He was truly what we all desired to be, a man that mattered. His tireless work to improve the City and his leadership in the industry which he lead will be forever remembered by all he touched. We wish to extend our sympathy to his grieving family who must be both proud of Lew's achievements and deeply saddened by his departure. James Berg, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors and staff of the YMCA of Greater New York are deeply saddened by the death of Lewis Rudin. His deep love of this city, his vision and his generosity helped make New York the greatest city in the world. He was the quintessential New Yorker-tough, savvy, determined, with a heart of gold. We will miss his leadership, his spirit and his kindness. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Rudin family, now and always. Robert Annunziata, Chairman Board of Directors Paula L. Gavin, President YMCA of Greater New York
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board and staff of Citymeals-on-Wheels mourn the passing of our beloved Honorary Chairman, Lewis Rudin, a man whose wisdom inspired our earliest beginnings, whose generosity and gallantry has heartened us in our twenty-year dedication to feeding the homebound. To his wife Rachel, his children Beth and Bill, his brother Jack, and to all who treasured him as we did... our deepest sympathy. Gael Greene, Chairman Preston Robert Tisch, President Marcia Stein, Executive Director Citymeals-on-Wheels
        RUDIN-Lewis. The United Federation of Teachers mourns a great man whose energy galvanized New York for more than two decades. His skill earned him the respect and affection of the labor community. He enriched cultural and educational institutions and knew that a great city needs great schools and colleges. Today, he is an inspiration for all to rebuild this city as he did after the 1970s fiscal crisis. We will sorely miss you. Our deepest sympathies to the Rudin family. Randi Weingarten, President United Federation of Teachers
        RUDIN-Lewis. When Lew was born, the mold was broken. There will never again be a person as dedicated to the welfare of our city. He was Mr. New York, our inspiration, cheerleader and booster. His warmth, humanity, caring, natural grace and generosity were extraordinary. Whether at ABNY, in the South of France, or dancing at Raffles or closing P.J.'s, he was indefatigable. Lew, you made an enormous difference to your friends and to our entire city. We extend our deepest sympathy to your entire family. Linda and Sandy Lindenbaum
        RUDIN-Lewis. Lew Rudin loved New York City, and joined with his family to build at the crossroads of the world, because he embraced the reinvention of 42nd Street as a symbol of the resilience, tenacity and aspiration of this great city of his. Everyone at The New 42nd Street, The New Victory Theater, and New 42nd Street Studios send their heartfelt condolences to Rachel, Beth, Bill, Jack and all the members of Lew's dear family. Marian S. Heiskell, Chairman Cora Cahan, President The Board of Directors and the Staff of The New 42nd Street
        RUDIN-Lewis. All of Cogswell Realty Group mourns the passing of our partner and friend, Lew Rudin. We will always take inspiration from the wisdom that Lew bestowed upon us and the friendship we have received from the entire Rudin family. His impact on the City of New York will be forever remembered. Our condolences go out with great sadness to Rachel, Beth, Bill, Ophelia, Carlton, Samantha, Kyle, Michael, Jack, Susan, Eric, Madeline, Bruce, Kate, Nancy, Grant and Sam.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Richard Tucker Music Foundation and the Tucker family mourn the passing of our friend, Lew Rudin. Lew and the Rudin Foundation have been long-standing supporters of the Tucker Foundation, and his countless contributions to this great city which he loved will remain a magnificent legacy. Our deepest condolences go out to his entire family, especially his brother Jack, his wife Rachel, his daughter Beth, and his son Bill. Barry Tucker, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. In this hour of great need, the city sorely misses its dedicated friend, and the Citizens Committee its loyal and generous founding board member. To Lew's family, we extend our deepest sympathy -and our promise to carry on our part of his many good works. Osborn Elliott Chairman Michael E. Clark President Citizens Committee for New York City
        RUDIN-Lewis. All of our family mourns the loss of Lewis, together with the entire Rudin family. He was the consummate gentleman and our friend for many wonderful years. His love for the city of his birth was evident in the many ways in which he embraced it. We loved him dearly and we will miss him forever. Our special love to Rachel, Jack, Susan, Beth, Bill, Ophelia, Carlton, Kyle, Samantha and Michael. Helen and Irving Schneider Lynn and Mindy
        RUDIN-Lewis. Rarely do we see embodied in one person so many excellent qualities that marked each and every one of his days with grace and generosity, dignity and integrity, and unparalleled civic leadership. During this time of great distress, Lew would have given courage and friendship to so many of us. He has left us a great legacy-his family-who continue to lead the way. Our heartfelt condolences to Rachel, Bill, Beth, Jack all their families. Louise Sunshine & Martin Begun
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York express their deep sorrow at the loss of their dear friend, Lew Rudin. Lew was an inspiration to all who knew him. Through his vision and tireless efforts, Lew helped make New York the great city it is today. Our heartfelt condolences to all his dear family and friends at this sad time. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors, the District Management Association and the entire staff of the Grand Central Partnership. mourn the loss of a great friend, a member of our BID family and a true New Yorker. His infinite inspiration and contributions to our city will be desperately missed. We express our deepest sympathy to his family, friends, and colleagues. Peter S. Kalikow, Chairman Alfred C. Cerullo, III, President/CEO
        RUDIN-Lewis. The directors, staff and residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of a great New Yorker, Lewis Rudin, a wise and generous friend, whose daughter, Beth Rudin DeWoody, has long served on our board. From our earliest days, Lew Rudin supported Phoenix House, recognizing the value of our work and the ways in which it strengthened the City he so loved. Edward D. Miller, Chairman Mitchell S. Rosenthal, M.D., President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The partners and staff of Goldfarb & Fleece mourn with deep sadness the passing of Lewis Rudin, a beloved friend and valued client who was an inspiration to us all. His warmth, wisdom, friendship and respect for all will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to Rachel, Beth, Bill, Ophelia, Carlton, Samantha, Kyle, Michael, Jack, Susan, Eric, Fiona, Madeleine, Bruce, Kate, Nancy, Grant and Sam.
        RUDIN-Lewis. Matilda Raffa Cuomo and Mentoring U.S.A mourn the loss of Lew Rudin, an early, dedicated and generous supporter of our Early Intervention Mentoring Programs and someone who always recognized the needs for additional support of families and youth in our city. Lew inspired us to serve many more children. The children and families are forever grateful. Our sympathies go out to his entire family.
        RUDIN-Lewis. The DowntownLower Manhattan Asociation mourns the passing of one of its most vibrant leaders and a giant of the Downtown community. Downtown and all of New York City will miss him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to our Board member, his son William Rudin, and to the entire Rudin family. Robert R. Douglass, Chairman Carl B. Weisbrod, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Trustees and staff of the Museum of Jewish Heritage-A Living Memorial to the Holocaust, mark with profound sadness the passing of our dear friend, Lewis Rudin, a man of great vision and strength who helped build this magnificent city. His absence will be deeply felt. Our condolences go out to the entire Rudin family. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chairman Board of Trustees
        RUDIN-Lewis. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Lewis Rudin, a giant in the real estate industry and founder and chairman of the Association for a Better New York. Mr. Rudin helped establish New York as the great city it is and his leadership will be long remembered. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the Rudin family during this difficult time. Newmark & Company Real Estate Inc
        RUDIN-Lewis. His admirers, colleagues and dear friends at Rose Associates mourn the loss of Lewis Rudin. For three generations, the Rudins and the Roses have had the warmest of relationships, sharing charitable, personal and professional concern for decades, and we shall miss Lew profoundly. To his brother Jack, his wife Rachel, and his children Bill and Beth, all the Roses send our most heartfelt condolences.
        RUDIN-Lewis. On behalf of Columbia University School of Nursing Faculty and Students, who have benefitted so greatly from the Rudin family's support, we express our sincere condolences to all the Rudins during this time of great loss. Mary O'Neil Mundinger, Dean Columbia University School of Nursing
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Officers and employees of Forest Electric Corp are saddened by the loss of Lew Rudin. Our great city has in the past week, lost two great symbols. Our prayers go out to Jack, Billy, Rachel and the entire Rudin family. Forest Electric Corporation Philip Altheim Chairman & CEO Howard Hirsch, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. On behalf of the partners and associates of Pottish Freyberg Marcus & Velazquez LLP, we mourn the passing of a great friend and leader. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Rachel, his children Bill and Beth, and to Jack and Susan and the entire family. He will be sorely missed. Sol Pottish, Carlos Velazquez Joel Marcus
        RUDIN-Lewis. We join the real estate industry and all New York in mourning the passing of a cornerstone of our great city. In one of our hours of great need Lew Rudin stepped up to bolster our spirits and lead us to recovery. Lew Rudin was there for many diverse causes. We extend our condolences to the entire Rudin family. Grubb & Ellis
        RUDIN-Lewis. Donald J. Trump extends his deepest sympathy to the members of the Rudin family, Rachel, Jack, Beth and Bill, on the loss of his dear friend, Lew. Lew was one of this city's most tireless supporters and greatest humanitarians. In the New York real estate world, he was royalty. He left a legacy that will be long remembered and impossible to replicate.
        RUDIN-Lewis. Our hearts are broken over the loss of this dynamic, generous, caring, unique man. His presence on this earth has had a tremendous effect on all of us who have had the pleasure and privilege of calling him a friend. Our hearts go out to Rachel and all the other members of his family at this very, very sad time. Gwen and Lester Fisher
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Directors of Greenwich House mourn the loss of Lewis Rudin, our esteemed Honorary Director. We remember him for his graciousness, kindnesses and contributions to our 99-year old settlement agency. Our concolences to his family and friends. Roy Leavitt, Exec. Dir.
        RUDIN-Lewis. Our heartfelt condolences to Rachel, Beth, William, Ophelia, Jack, Susan and their families. Lew was a wonderful friend, and he will be missed by his enormous universe of friends and beneficiaries of his philanthropy. Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol Lori and David Moore Lisa and Jeffrey Silverman
        RUDIN-Lewis. The board and staff of New Yorkers For Children express our heartfelt condolences to our dedicated and much loved board member, Beth Rudin DeWoody. Nicholas Scoppetta, President Board of Directors Claudia Fleming, Executive Director
        RUDIN-Lewis. The partners of Cahill Gordon & Reindel express our deepest sympathy to the family of Lewis Rudin. As our landlord and our friend for over 41 years, we always admired and valued your leadership in making our City a better place in which to work and live. Cahill Gordon & Reindel
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Citizens Housing and Planning Council extends its deepest sympathies to the Rudin family upon the death of our former Board member. Lew Rudin was one of our most reliable allies in our efforts to make New York a more livable and equitable city.
        RUDIN-Lewis. We mourn the passing of this wonderful, unique human being. He was a man of vision, wisdom and goodness, who was kind, generous and caring to so many. Our heart felt condolences to his devoted Rachel and everyone in the Rudin family. Catherine & Fred Adler
        RUDIN-Lewis. On behalf of our members, The Real Estate Roundtable mourns the passing of our friend, supporter and industry leader, Lewis Rudin. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Jeffrey D. DeBoer The Real Estate Roundtable
        RUDIN-Lewis. A giant of a man who gave so much to so many. Our family joins with all of the Rudins in sharing their grief and celebrating his wonderful life. He will live in our hearts and memories forever. The Hoffman & Rapaport Families
        RUDIN-Lew. We will sorely miss our good friend...a legend in real estate, a pillar of the community, a loving father, grandfather and husband, and a loyal friend. Our hearts are with Rachel, Billy, Beth, Jack and the entire family. Laura and John Pomerantz
        RUDIN-Lewis. Thank you ''Mr. New York'' for a lifetime of friendship and love. We will always cherish the memories. Love and condolences to Rachel, Jack and Susan, Beth, Bill and Ophelia, and the entire Rudin family. Fran and Sandy Abelson Family
        RUDIN-Lewis. Bovis Lend Lease is deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. Our sympathies are extended to his wife Rachel, his brother Jack and his entire family. Peter A. Marchetto, President Bovis Lend Lease
        RUDIN-Lewis. Words cannot express our love for you. You will forever remain in our hearts and memory. We join with your family in mourning the loss of this great humanitarian. Love, Jane, David, Rosemary, James, and Douglas Levy
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Partners and staff at the Office of James Ruderman, LLP, mourn with deep sadness a beloved friend and valued longtime client. We extend our deepest sympathy to his brother Jack and the rest of his family.
        RUDIN-Lewis. We are saddened by the death of our friend Lew, and mourn him deeply. We send our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Rachel, and his entire family. Our thoughts and our prayers are with them. Christina and Salvador Assael
        RUDIN-Lewis. Lew Rudin was indeed a ''Living Landmark'' and his legacy will remain an enduring landmark and inspiration to New York. Peg Breen, President, Stuart Siegel, Chair NY Landmarks Conservancy
        RUDIN-Lewis. To a cherished and dear friend who enriched our lives in every way. Lew will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt sympathy to Rachel, Bill, Ophelia, Beth, Carlton, Kyle, Samantha and Michael. Michele, Jerry, Adam, David and Stephanie Wolkoff
        RUDIN-Lewis. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President
        RUDIN-Lewis. Our love for you for over 40 years will continue on through our devotion to your wonderful and great family. Your legacy is unending. Edith, Carla, Laura & Michael Nathanson
        RUDIN-Lew. We will always treasure the friendship and laughter we shared together. Lew was so proud of Beth and Bill and his grandchildren. Kisses and love, Gladys and Marty Poll
        RUDIN-Lewis. A loss to all who loved him. He was a unique man-giant of wisdom, vision, compassion and affection. A part of our heart has gone with him. May he rest in peace. The Keating Family
        RUDIN-Lewis. Words cannot convey our sense of loss upon the passing of our very dear friend, a man who was clearly one of the great icons of ''his town'', New York. Karen and Martin Berger
        RUDIN-Lewis. WIZO mourns the passing of a compassionate and caring supporter. We embrace our friend, his beloved wife Rachel. Evelyn Sommer, President, WIZO USA
        RUDIN-Lewis. Dear Lew, we loved you and will miss you. Our hearts go out to the entire Rudin family for their great loss. Love, Hermine, Sidney, Andrew, Michelle, Nicole and David
        RUDIN-Lewis. Farewell to a good friend. A great loss to New York City. Heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Norman F. Levy
        RUDIN-Lewis. Mr. Lew, you were the best. We are all gonna miss you. THE CADDIES
        RUDIN-Lewis. Our loss is far too great for words. We love you. Toni and Jim Peters
      