
        SALVATERRA-Frank G. Frank Salvaterra was at his office on the 104th floor of Two World Trade Center on September 11, 2001, at 9 A.M. when tragedy struck. Frank was a partner of the investment firm of Sandler O'Neil & Partners responsible for the firm's equity research, sales and trading. He previously was in a management position at Merrill Lynch and was a recognized and respected specialist in trading of bank stocks. First and foremost, Frank was a devoted husband and father to Sally Calvin and their three lovely children, Gabrielle and Isabelle, 9, and Christian, 7. Frank recognized the importance of family and friends and maintained a balance of a successful business career and loving attention to his family and friends. Frank's genial and caring manner made it clear that he knew the true values of life. He always had time for his children and friends and never missed a birthday, school event or social activity which was important to Sally and their children. Frank was born in Brooklyn and would have celebrated his 42nd birthday on October 4. His father Mario and sister Lillian predeceased him. He is survived by his mother Antoinetta Salvaterra, and a sister and brother-in-law Drs. Carmen and Gerry Barcak of Baltimore; and Sally's parents and sister Donald and Louise Calvin of Manhasset and Jane Calvin Palasek and Alexander Palasek of Port Washington, NY. Also a nephew Alexander Christian Palasek and nieces Danielle and Christen Barcak. Frank graduated with honors from the Bronx High School of Science. He graduated from Boston University with honors and was awarded an MBA from New York University. Frank and Sally have homes in Manhasset and Shelter Island, NY where they spent their last weekend fishing and attending the annual end of summer party. Frank's memory is being honored by an out pouring of gestures of kindness from business associates and friends from all walks of life who loved and respected Frank for both his professional ability and his devotion to his family and friends. A celebration of Frank's life is to be held at the Congregational Church of Manhasset, Northern Blvd, at 2 P.M. September 19, for family and friends. If you wish to join in celebrating Frank's life and carry on as he did in his life, please do an act of kindness for someone in need.
      