
        KOENIGSBERG - Maynard. We mourn the passing of our former vice president and honorary member of the Board of Trustees, Maynard Koeningsberg, who ''shed round him in the common strife and mild concerns of ordinary life, a constant influence, a peculiar grace.'' Maynard was concerned with not only the structure of the synagogue but more importantly, all of the programs that elevated the human condition. We're thankful for his personal qualities of mind and heart and spirit. He leaves his family and friends a treasure of memories that will never lose their luster, that will deepen and mellow as the years go by. It is in the hearts of all those who knew and loved him that the best and purest part of Maynard Koenigsberg now lies eternally enshrined. Dr. Robert S. Widom, Rabbi Sandor C. Schweiger, Co-President Mandell Dalis, Co-President Temple Emanuel of Great Neck
        KOENIGSBERG - Maynard. We deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed partner, Maynard Koenigsberg. Always a gentleman, a man of the utmost integrity and strong family values, we will miss his wonderful sense of humor and his wise counsel. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his loving wife Elaine, his adored children Craig, Jerri and Kim, and their lovely families. May you be comforted by all the wonderful memories you have of Maynard. the Menowitz Family
        KOENIGSBERG-Maynard. We wish to express our deepest and heartfelt sympathies to Elaine, Craig, Kim and Gerry and their families over the untimely loss of their dear and loving husband, father and grandfather Maynard. He was genuine, warm & a guiding light to his family and a dear and special friend to us all. He will be greatly missed by all. Bob, Esther, Lisa and Michael Ades and their families
        KOENIGSBERG-Maynard. Our beloved uncle, business partner, but most of all friend. He truly will be missed by our families. Our thoughts, hopes and prayers go out to his wife, Aunt Elaine and children, Geri and David, Kim and Barry, Craig and Jill, and his nine grandchildren. Victoria and Lloyd Katja and Michael Dorian and Marvin
        KOENIGSBERG - Maynard, the cherished father of our dear friends, Craig and Jill Koenigsberg. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Elaine, daughters, Jerri and Kim, and the entire Koenigsberg family. Julie and Steven Lifton
      