
        VITALE-Dr. Albert G. A prominent Cardiologist and Medical Educator at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York for nearly 50 years, died Sunday, September 9, 2001, of Convent Station, NJ, formerly of Summit, NJ. He was devoted to his beloved wife, Helen of 46 years, his three children and their spouses, Drs. Albert T. and Patricia A. Vitale, currently residing in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Thomas W. and Gaysu Stanton-Vitale of Reston, Virginia, Helen F. Vitale of Summit, NJ; four grandchildren, and his late sister, Frances White. A Mass of Christian Burial is to be held at St. Thomas More Catholic Church in Convent Station, NJ, on Friday, September 14, 2001, at 10 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to a fund in his name, to support medical education at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York. Dr. Vitale created and directed the CardioPulmonary Department at St. Vincent's, as well as that at Overlook Hospital in Summit, NJ, served as Chief of Medical/Surgical Cardiology at St. Vincent's and as President of the medical staff. He was well known for bringing a unique humanistic perspective to his students and patients. His legacy is the fruit from a live lived with love; of medicine & of his family.
        VITALE-Albert G., M.D. The Medical Staff of St. Vincent's Hospital of Manhattan mourns the passing of its distinguished colleague and trusted friend. Dr. Vitale completed his Residency in Internal Medicine at St. Vincent's in 1950 and joined the Attending Staff in 1953. At St. Vincent's he created the Cardiopulmonary Section of the Department of Medicine and served as its first Chief. Dr. Vitale served as President of the Medical Staff from 1983 to 1984, and made it his lifetime goal to deliver maximum benefits of diagnostic and therapeutic advances with compassion and concern for the patient. His role as a bedside clinician and teacher was legendary at our hospital and his wisdom and guidance will be missed by all of us who were privileged to have known him. We celebrate his life and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Helen, and his children, Helen, Al and Thomas. Enrique A. Bonfils-Roberts, M.D. President Medical Staff of St. Vincent's
      