
        PORGES-Suzanne Florence, nee Oberlander, artist, died at her home in Manhattan on September 13th, at 93 years, following a long illness. Born in Vienna, Austria, she emigrated to the United States with her husband and young children in 1938, shortly following the Anschluss. She resided for many years in Forest Hills, Queens and later in West Stockbridge, MA. She was an artist and art scholar, a member of Artists Equity, and had a long and prolific career as a portraitist, still-life and landscape painter. She accrued an outstanding art library and slide collection. The latter contained unique views of museum quality. The entire collection of slides was donated to Dartmouth College. Her expertise as an art scholar was recognized by the United States Information Service for which, in 1956, she gave a series of lectures in France on American Art. During her years in West Stockbridge she was active in the community, and continued to foster her academic interests by sponsoring art scholarships for local high school students. In many ways Suzanne Porges was symbolic of the generation of immigrants from Central Europe who grew up in the early years of this century only to have their secure family life and intellectual milieu interrupted by the Second World War. Many assimiliated Jews could not meet the stringent requirements of Aryan purity imposed by the Nazis. The coming of Hitler forced upon her the recognition of her ancestral roots. While not raised as a Jew, her journals reveal that she had no doubts of her ancestry, and how she would be treated. It was her sensitivity and appreciation of imminent danger that prompted her to write to a close acquaintance, William Rosenwald, only a few days following the German annexation of Austria. His assistance enabled the family's rapid exodus from Europe, sparing them catastrophe from the Holocaust. Her family attributes its survival to her vision and initiative. She survived her husband of 38 years, John C. Porges, a prominent obstetriciangynecologist in this city. She is survived by her sons, Robert F., of New York City and Brookfield, CT; and his wife, Dr. Felicia Axelrod; George W. Dallas of Brookfield, CT; and his wife Nicole; grandchildren John A. and his wife Alexandra Gillespie; Vicki M. Eisner of New York and her husband Joseph Eisner, and a great grandson, Dylan Robert Porges.
      