
        LENTSCHNER-Dr. Esther Meltzer, retired Professor of the Wurzweiler School of Social Work of Yeshiva University, died April 15, 2001, at the age of 87. Born in Malden, Massachusetts, the sixth of seven children of William and Bessie Meltzer, and their first born in the United States to which they had come with five children from Russia, Dr. Lentschner was a magna cum laude Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Radcliffe College. She received a Master of Arts in Teaching from Harvard University Graduate School of Education, a Master of Social Work from Western Reserve University, and a Doctorate in Social Work from Columbia University. She worked in the field of family and children's services in Cleveland, Boston, and New York. In New York City she worked first for Spence-Chapin Adoption Service and headed a project to develop adoptive homes for African-American children in Washington, D.C. and New York City. Subsequently, she moved into the field of aging, and accepted a position to establish and direct the social services of the Workmen's Circle Home for Aged. In 1964, she joined the faculty of Yeshiva University's Wurzweiler School of Social Work. In addition to teaching, she was appointed the first Director of Admissions for the School. She retired in 1978. The following year she did a study for the Ford Foundation on a special educational program for foster parents. She was active in professional and community organizations, serving in particular as an officer and member of the board of directors of New York Service Program for Older People, the West-Side Inter-Agency Council on Aging, and the New York State Association of Gerontological Educators. She published on foster care and on services to the elderly and aging. Dr. Lentschner was the widow of Walter S. Lentschner, who died in 1986. Mr. Lentschner came to the United States from the French concentration camp Le Vernet, in 1941. He worked for 25 years as a research photographer in the department of ophthalmology of New York University Medical Center. The couple had no children. Dr. Lentschner is survived by four generations of nieces and nephews, as well as cousins in Montreal, the United States, and Israel. Interment was at Eretz Ha'Haim in Jerusalem. Contributions may be made to The Esther M. and Walter S. Lentschner Award for Excellence in Writing, C/O Wurzweiler School of Social Work, Yeshiva Univ., 500 W. 185th Street, New York, New York 10033. A memorial service will be held at the Wurzweiler School of Social Work, Belfer Hall, 2495 Amsterdam Avenue, October 11, 2001 at 1:30 PM.
      