
        HALF-Robert. 82, passed peacefully in Palm Beach on August 31, 2001. Cherished husband of Maxine, devoted father of Nancy and Peggy, father-in-law of Donny and Marc. Loving grandfather to Stephanie, Kevin, Ryan, Adam, Lauren and Stephanie. As the founder and Chairman of Robert Half International in 1948, Bob was an industry pioneer as he became the first to specialize in the placement of accountants and finance professionals. The author of numerous books and articles, Bob also represented the professional placement industry on television and radio. Bob championed the elimination of gender requirements in job listings and the elimination of agency fees charged to job seekers. A former President of the Association of Personnel Consultants of NY, Bob also received the coveted Madden Memorial Award from NYU where he financed scholarships for deserving accounting students. His business achievements, while substantial, pale against the true test of his humanity: the loving advice and guidance given to his daughters and grandchildren and the friendships he spawned throughout the world. His kindness, wit and magic tricks will be missed by all who were fortunate to know him. Graveside services at Maimonides Cemetery, 90 Elmont Rd, Elmont, NY at 3 P.M. on Sunday, September 2, 2001.
        HALF-Robert. You have fallen into eternal sleep. We remember being your little girls, feeling protected by their Daddy. Your eyes are beautiful and they will continue to shine in the eyes of your children and grandchildren. You led a life of wonderment, filled with devotion and love. You were the best Daddy. You have blessed us with your love, your incredible sense of humor, your kind and gentle manner, your integrity, honesty, compassion and goodness. You achieved the greatest honors in business but your own personal measurement of success was ''a balance between doing things yourself, getting help from others and helping others.'' We have libraries of your brilliant writings, all personally signed with your unique wit. We admire you and love you more than words can say. Your photographs are beautiful memories that transcend time. No one loved to dance as much, had so much fun or was as loved as you. Thank you for giving your smiles and expressions of love these past few weeks. Stephanie, Kevin, Ryan, Adam, Lauren and Stephanie each had their special moments with you and we saw the joy their visits brought you. We will never let you go, you will be with us for eternity. We love you Daddy. Sweet dreams forever. Nancy and Peggy
        HALF-Robert. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, Members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club, record the passing of Robert Half, a member of our club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Maxine, and the entire family. Martin Rosenman, President Mark Claster, Secretary
        HALF-Robert. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Robert Half. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Maxine, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary
        HALF-Robert. We mourn the loss of the dearest, kindest human being who was loved by everyone. He was a wonderful relative and a sincere friend. His life made a difference in this world. Our love and sincere sympathy to Maxine, Nancy and Peggy. Estelle R. Cohen Philip Miller
        HALF-Robert. Dear Grandpa, Your love, guidance, magic, wisdom and humor will be with us forever. Thank you for playing with us and capturing every moment in your loving photographs. You are so precious and we love you so much. Stephanie, Kevin, Ryan, Adam, Lauren and Stephanie
        HALF-Robert. Dearest friend of a lifetime -we take solace in the wonderful memories of our times together. More family than friend, as are Maxine, Nancy and Peggy, et. al., we grieve with you. Wini and Horace
        HALF-Robert. In memory of Robert Half, the father of our dear friend, Nancy Carter. He is remembered with affection and respect. Ellen and Dennis Schweber Shawn and Peter Leibowitz
        HALF-Robert. Always quick with a joke or story to put things in perspective. Your genius was in the way you made it all look so easy. I will miss your good counsel and effervescent spirit. Marc
        HALF-Robert. To my wonderful father-in-law who gave me his beautiful daughter and welcomed me with open arms into his family. Goodnight, sweet prince. Donny
      