
        SALAWAY-Jeffrey H. Suddenly on August 31. Beloved husband of Toni, devoted father of Sara and Noah. Cherished son of Agnes and the late Sandor. Dear brother of Marilyn and Stewart Werner, Elizabeth Salaway and Christy Cober. Dearly loved son-in-law of Carol and Arthur Maslow, brother-inlaw of Mark and Cindy Ross, grandson of Doris Rosenthal. Loving nephew, uncle and cousin as well as a friend to all. Services Sunday, September 2, 1 PM at The Jewish Center of East Hampton, 44 Woods Lane, East Hampton, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions would be appreciated to the Hayground School, Bridgehampton, New York.
        SALAWAY-Jeffrey. The members of the Boards of Trustees and Staff of Beth Israel Medical Center and its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, are greatly saddened by the death of Jeffrey Salaway, son-in-law of our dear friend and colleague Trustee Carol Maslow. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to Carol and her daughter Toni Ross, her children and her family. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Beth Israel and Continuum Peter A. Kelly President and CEO, Continuum Matthew E. Fink, MD President and CEO, Beth Israel Sidney Stein, MD, President, Medical Board, Beth Israel Jane G. Blumenfeld Senior Vice-Pres, Development
        SALAWAY-Jeffrey. The devastating loss of our dear friend, fellow director and founder, Jeff Salaway, is deeply mourned by the Board of Directors and the staff of The Hamptons International Film Festival. He was our tower of strength, a constant inspiration and our unboundingly joyous friend. He is truly irreplaceable. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, our Chair Emeritus, Toni Ross, his children, Noah and Sarah, and his entire family. Stuart Match Suna, Chairman Bob Balaban, Vice Chair Pat Swinney Kaufman, Vice Chair Jeremy Nussbaum, Vice Chair Joe Zicherman, Vice Chair Denise Kasell, Executive Director
        SALAWAY-Jeffrey. The members of the Incontinentia Pigmenti International Foundation are deeply saddened by the sudden, tragic death of our friend, Jeffrey Salaway. Jeff and all the members of the Salaway family have been early and dediciated supporters of the Foundation since its inception. Our deepest, heartfelt sympathy goes out to his wife Toni, their children Sara and Noah, his mother Agnes, and his sisters Lizz and Marilyn. Susanne Emmerich, Founder and Executive Director The Incontinentia Pigmenti International Foundation
        SALAWAY-Jeffrey. The board and staff of Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic express deep condolences to the family of Jeffrey Salaway, especially his wife Toni and his children Noah and Sarah. Jeff's commitment to the community was very special. Francine S. Stein, President/CEO Rose Brown, Executive V.P. Carol Stix, Board Chair
        SALAWAY-Jeffrey. Jeff you set a standard and we followed. You were truly a Mensch. We extend our deepest sympathy to Toni, Noah, Sara, Liz and your entire family. You will truly be missed. Tracy Bonbrest & Stuart Kreisler
      