
        STERN-Isaac. 81, violinist, died on Saturday, September 22 in New York City. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, friend and mentor. Above all, he was a musician, with a legacy that left an indelible mark on generations of audiences worldwide. Devoted lover of Israel, champion of Carnegie Hall, ardent supporter of countless musical and educational causes, and consummate teacher to generations of young colleagues, he led by example and made a difference to New York, Israel and the world. Survived by his wife, Linda; his children by his previous marriage to Vera Lindenblit, Shira and Don, Michael and Jeannette, and David and Katta; his grandchildren, Noah, Ari, Eytan, Sophia and Talia; and his sister Eva Hornyak and family. Arrangements made by the Mount Sinai Chapels, East Brunswick, NJ. Funeral private, memorial concert to be announced. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Carnegie Hall Isaac Stern Education Fund.
        STERN-Isaac. With profound sadness, the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc., mourn the passing of our great friend, musician, humanitarian and national treasure, Isaac Stern. During his more than 60 years on the world's concert stages he was an inspiration to audiences and to all who knew him. Through his leadership he redefined what it meant to be a musician. While he once described Carnegie Hall as ''an affirmation of the human spirit,'' he himself was the incarnation of the human spirit. His vision and energy had a profound impact on the cultural life of this great city, an impact that will be felt for generations to come. He led the fight to save Carnegie Hall confirming New York's position as the capital of the music world. Isaac paid no attention to obstacles in his life's many passions, in particular in his support of the State of Israel and to arts education. He touched countless lives; his legacy is immeasurable. Lincoln Center joins with Carnegie Hall and the global family of music makers and music lovers in mourning his loss. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Linda, his sister Eva Hornyak, his children Shira, Michael, and David, and to his grandchildren. Beverly Sills, Chairman Gordon J. Davis, President Jane S. Moss, VP, Programming Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        STERN-Isaac. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the loss of Isaac Stern, one of the great violinists of our time. Mr. Stern was also a humanitarian, a teacher cherished by generations of students, an unrelenting champion of the arts and a dedicated supporter of Israel. In the course of more than six decades as a public figure, his commitment to the arts and the larger community epitomized the values and beliefs of the 92nd Street Y. Mr. Stern first graced the stage of the Y's Kaufmann Concert Hall on May 26, 1943, when he appeared in a ''Concert for the Benefit of Russian and Chinese War Relief.'' 45 years later, he joined the Y in another cause, performing in a benefit for the UJA-Federation campaign ''Passage to Freedom,'' which supported Soviet Jewish immigrants to the US and Israel. His frequent performances at the Y, including his last appearance with violist Jaime Laredo and cellist Sharon Robinson in 1994, contributed enorously to the institution's cultural life. Mr. Stern's vision, as well as his music, wisdom and energy will live on in the hearts and minds of all who were privileged to know him. Matthew Bronfman, President Philip Milstein, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director, 92nd Street Y Hanna Arie-Gaifman, Director, 92nd Street Y, Tisch Center for the Arts
        STERN-Isaac. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the passing of our dear friend, the renowned violinist, Isaac Stern, on Saturday, Sept 22nd in New York City at the age of 81. One of the last century's preeminent virtuosos, Mr. Stern's influence extended far beyond the concert stage. He was a cultural activist and educational mentor whose inspired stewardship of Carnegie Hall will be forever cherished. His acclaimed discography and his support as mentor to many of the world's leading concert artists will keep his memory alive for generations to come. His confidence in the arts as a positive force and his abiding affection for New York City will sustain us, especially at this time, as we rebuild our city and reinvigorate our national spirit. Isaac Stern will continue to inspire us. We extend to his wife, Linda, and to his entire family, our heartfelt condolences. Bruce A. Stevens, President Peter B. Goodrich, Vice President Concert and Artist Activities
        STERN-Isaac. The Seattle Symphony learned, with great sadness, of the passing of Isaac Stern, one of the great violinists of our time. An inspired mentor, his support and encouragement was an inspiration to his many colleagues in the field. Mr. Stern performed regularly in Seattle to large and adoring audiences, both in recital and concerto performances. Seattle joins the many communities around the world that will miss his splendid music making. Gerard Schwarz, Music Director Deborah Card, Executive Director The Musicians, Staff and Volunteers of The Seattle Symphony
        STERN-Isaac. We are so sad as we mourn the death of Isaac Stern. He was truly great and his impact on the world of music will live on as his everlasting legacy. At a time when musicians were busy trying to dazzle, he insisted on something else, something better: a musical rule which demanded that technique be only in the service of the music. He helped to shape our lives by setting the standard for us to follow. He was a mentor who always had time for us, he was a true friend. The world will miss him, we will miss him. Our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Toby and Itzhak Perlman
        STERN-Isaac. Manhattan School of Music grieves with the rest of the world the loss of a great artist and humanitarian. We are grateful for all he did to encourage and support the enrichment of so many young musicians. His example and legacy will continue to live and inspire us. Our personal heartfelt condolences to his family. We will deeply miss him. Marta Istomin, President David A. Rahm, Chairman of the Board Manhattan School of Music
        STERN-Isaac. The word to describe Isaac Stern is ''inspiration.'' He inspired everyone who knew him to do their best and to get the most out of life. Our deepest condolences to his family. George and Joyce Wein Jon Faddis and the Carnegie Hall Jazz Band and the Staff of Festival Productions, Inc.
        STERN-Isaac. The Board and Staff of Young Audiences mourn the passing of our dear friend and Advisory Board Member, Isaac Stern. He was a remarkable man, an exceptional artist and inspired teacher, and he will be greatly missed. The Board of Directors and Staff of Young Audiences, Inc.
        STERN-Isaac. Itzhak and Toby Perlman, the Board of Directors, faculty and staff and students of The Perlman Music Program honor Isaac Stern, mentor and friend to us and to the world of music. His profound contributions have so positively affected the times in which we live.
        STERN-Isaac. Samuel Johnson, ''had I learned to fiddle, I should have done nothing else.'' How fortunate for all that Isaac Stern also became such a great humanitarian. He will be sorely missed, but remembered always. Dinny and Lester Morse
        STERN-Isaac. We mourn the passing of a great musician and good friend. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his wife, Linda, and his family. David Foster Lee Lamont, Byron Gustafson and the Staff of ICM Artists, Ltd
        STERN-Isaac. To the Stern family with heartfelt empathy. The world is now also mourning the passing of a great musician, humanitarian and proponent of arts education. I am crying at the loss of a friend. Bella Linden
        STERN-Isaac. The Board and members of the Bohemians/New York Musicians Club mourn the lost of our friend and colleague; a great artist and human being. Abba Bogin, President
        STERN-Isaac. I grieve at the passing of a great human being and ultimate musician and a friend. My heart goes out to his wife, Linda, and the entire family. Lee Lamont
        STERN-Isaac. Our families mourn the loss of a friend, and the world mourns the loss of a great musician and humanitarian. The Weiler and Arnow Families
      