
        FOWLER-Glenn Crew, 77. A reporter and editor for the New York Times for 37 years until his retirement in 1991, died on September 10, 2001, at NYU Medical Center. He had covered news on many fronts from city and state politics to retailing, and had also been editor of the real estate section. The cause of death was a sudden recurrence of prostate cancer, quiescent since its inception nine years ago. Throughout his last six years Glenn waged a valiant, all-out battle to transcend the effects of his 1995 stroke, and made dynanmic comeback after comeback until the end, never losing his indelible spirit, sparkle or infectious grin. Born in Manhattan, November 26, 1923, he was a graduate of Columbia University, did graduate work in political history at NYU, was a sports reporter for United Press and a news reporter for Women's Wear Daily before joining the Times. For many years Glenn was a colorful cast member of the riotous annual political lampoons staged by two noted New York journalist groups -the Inner Circle and the New York Financial Writers Association -and also was a longtime member of three others, the Silurians, the Downhold Club of UP Writers and the National Real Estate Editors Association. During W.W. II he served as a lieutenant in the Navy, often in the thick of action in Europe. One hair-raising instance he survived took place on Normandy Beach where the landing craft of soldiers he commanded was shot out from under him by enemy fire as he landed it, after which he was rescued by another landing craft and took over for its skipper who had just been killed. Until his stroke Glenn was an avid skier and runner who completed 12 NYC Marathons and several in Boston and China. A distance runner who was never lonely, he made friends everywhere, continuing to do so throughout the years of his stroke. Overcoming the terrible loss of speech he had sustained from the stroke with his signature grin and a personal sign language he continually created with a dedication he brought to everything, he kept up a continuous regimen of therapies that helped him often to free himself from wheelchair and cane, and travel, swim and dance almost as before. Glenn is survived by his beloved and devoted wife Jessica and daughter Kathryn. He will be mourned by a legion of close friends. Services will be held on Sunday, September 30, at 3 PM, at the Community Church of New York, 40 East 35th Street. A reception is planned for the near future at the Fowler residence.
      