
        DICKEY-Joseph Dermot, Jr. Loving husband of Irene, devoted father of Joseph and Elizabeth, treasured brother of William and Walter and their families, and beloved nephew of Isabelle Lawson and Eileen McPeake died on Tuesday, September 11, 2001 in the World Trade Center tragedy. Joe, the son of Irish immigrants, grew up in the Bronx where he attended Fordham Prep High School. He graduated from The University of Wisconsin in 1972 and received an MBA from SUNY Binghamton. Over the past twenty years, Joe worked tirelessly to build a successful career on Wall Street. At the time of his death, Joe was a Managing Director of Cantor Fitzgerald, working in the Interest Rate Swaps department. He was on the 105th Floor of Tower 1, directly above where the first plane hit. Honest almost to a fault, generous and kind, Joe was greatly admired and respected by all who knew him. He was an eternal optimist and had an unforgettable passion for life. But Joe always measured his own success on how good he was to his family. And he was an exceptional husband and father. He taught them to embrace life, take on new challenges and to love the outdoors as much as he did. In their early years together, Joe introduced Irene to the city and took her on long strolls in Central Park. On Fire Island, Joe taught his children how to swim out past the break, how to stay on top and out in front of the ocean's barrels. He coached his children's basketball teams, sat proudly on the sidelines at Joseph's crew regattas, and never missed an opportunity to play the back nine with Elizabeth. A savvy New York sports fan, Joe took the kids to see the Knicks, Rangers and Yanks, and enjoyed catching the Wisconsin Badgers on TV and talking sports with those around him. Although Joe has been taken from us all far sooner than we were ready to give him up, the whole family feels blessed to have had him in our lives. His smile and laugh will remain with us forever. Please join the family on Friday, September 28th to remember and celebrate the extraordinary life of Joseph Dermot Dickey, Jr. A memorial service will be held at 10:30AM at St. Mary's Church in Manhasset, followed by lunch at Leo's, a local restaurant. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests a contribution in the memory of Joseph D. Dickey, Jr. to the families of the New York fire fighters who lost their lives trying to save our Joe and countless others. UFA Widows' and Children's Fund: 204 East 23rd Street, NY, NY 10010.
      