
        MAGARIAN-Nazareth, 71. A founding partner of the law firm Nobile, Magarian and DiSalvo, died on September 11, 2001 at home in Briarcliff Manor, NY. Naz was born on November 30, 1929 in the Bronx, NY, to Karl and Victoria (Soovajian) Magarian. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from the City College of New York in 1951 and his law degree from New York University in 1954. He served as Presidential Honor Guard under the Eisenhower Administration. Nazareth married Phyllis Wolkoff on November 6, 1955 at St. Mark's Lutheran Church in Yonkers, NY, and they shared a loving marriage of nearly 46 years. Naz enjoyed an active law practice, serving as First Assistant Corporation Counsel for the City of Yonkers, NY, then in private practice in the areas of Wills, Trusts and Estates, Probate, Construction Law, Real Estate, Elder Law, Nonprofit Organizations Law, Religious Institutions, and College and University Law. Nazareth was continually active as a member of the Board of Directors and Advisor to the Board for Manhattan Savings Bank and Republic National Bank, General Counsel and Chairman of the Board of Directors for the Wartburg Adult Care Community, General Counsel for Concordia College, General Counsel for the Atlantic District of the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod, and long-time member and President of the Board of Directors for the Unity Center in New York City. Naz was a member of the Yonkers, Westchester and New York State Bar Associations, as well as Past President of the Board of Directors of the Yonkers Public Library, Past President of the Kiwanis Club and member of the Yonkers Rotary Club. Naz was semi-retired and enjoyed the ocean, dolphins and long walks along the beach with his wife at their second home in Palm Beach, Florida. He was also a passionate speaker, graceful dancer, lover of the outdoors and provided many inspiring ''Circles of Light'' at Unity services in Avery Fisher Hall. In addition to his wife Phyllis, Naz is survived by his three children: Dr. Glenn A. Magarian, Dr. Karen S. Magarian, and Lorna B. Magarian, as well as his sister Dorothy Bahtiarian, two nephews, two nieces and six grandnieces and nephews. In memory of Nazareth Magarian, gifts, in lieu of flowers, may be made to the Wartburg Adult Care Community at Wartburg Place, Mt. Vernon, NY 10552, or the Unity Center at 213 West 58th Street, NY, NY 10019. A memorial service will be held at the Unity Center at 213 West 58th Street on Sunday, September 23 at 1 PM.
      