
        AMMON-R. Theodore. The Board of Directors and staff of the YMCA of Greater New York are deeply saddened by the death of Ted Ammon. As a member of the Board from 1991 to 1999, Ted demonstrated a deep commitment to youth. His leadership, compassion and enthusiasm helped strengthen the YMCA and inspired substantial support for youth programs. We will miss his wise counsel, his spirit and his friendship. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Ammon family now and always. Robert Annunziata, Chairman Board of Directors Paula L. Gavin, President YMCA of Greater New York
        AMMON-R. Theodore. The Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts mourn the tragic passing of R. Theodore Ammon, Chairman of Jazz at Lincoln Center and member of our board of directors since last spring. He will be remembered for his energy and style, for his passion for jazz and for the world of performing arts. We extend our condolences to Ted's family and friends, as well as to our colleagues at Jazz at Lincoln Center. Beverly Sills, Chairman and the Board of Directors Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        AMMON-R. Theodore. The Board and Staff of the Municipal Art Society of New York express shock and grief at the untimely death of our Board Member, Ted Ammon. We extend our sincere condolences to his family, his business associates and his many friends in the New York cultural community.
        AMMON-R. Theodore. The board, staff and artists of Jazz at Lincoln Center are profoundly saddened by the death of our chairman, R. Theodore Ammon. Ted was a great and loyal friend of this organization, since joining the board in 1996 and becoming chairman in March of this year. A tireless supporter, Ted brought his passion for jazz and his tremendous enthusiasm for our mission to everything he did. His strong belief in the power of jazz to bring all kinds of people together will remain a source of inspiration. We all loved him very much, and he will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. Wynton Marsalis, Artistic Director Bruce MacCombie, Exec. Director
      