
        ABBOTT-Louise S. Passed away peacefully at the age of 93, September 29th at her home in Pomfret Center, Connecticut. She was born Louise Slocum in Jamaica Plain, MA. She graduated with honors from The Winsor School in 1926. She attended Vassar College and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Radcliffe College with a degree in political science in 1931. Throughout her life she was an avid tennis player. She won the National Doubles Championship at the age of 19 and was invited to compete at The Wimbledon Lawn Tennis Championships. In 1932 she married Charles C. Abbott, an instructor at The Harvard Business School. While she and the family lived in Cambridge, she devoted her energies to various secondary schools and civic endeavors. In 1954 she moved with her family to Charlottesville, VA., where her husband became the founding Dean of The Darden School of Business at The University of Virginia. While in Charlottesville, Louise Abbott was instrumental in establishing and nurturing The Wives Club, an organization devoted to supporting the wives of spouses studying at the business school. In 1972 she & her husband retired to their farm in Pomfret where she pursued her interests in bridge, mahjong, gardening & bird watching. Louise S. Abbott was predeceased by her husband Charles C. Abbott and her grandsons, W. Frederick Williams IV, John William Abbott and Hunter Austin Abbott. She is survived by five children, daughters Margaret, Ellen Eubank of Pomfret and Louise Williams of Maynard, MA; sons Charles C. Abbott of Charlottesville, VA, William S. Abbott of Pomfret and Preston H. Abbott of Guilford, CT; eight grandchildren; two great grandchildren and long time family member and friend Emma Feige. A memorial service will be held October 27th at The Pomfret School Chapel, Pomfret, CT, at 2 PM. The family suggests that in lieu of flowers contributions might be made to The Darden Partners, Darden School Alumni Foundation, PO Box 6550, Charlottesville, VA. 22906, or The Winsor School, 103 Pilgrim Road, Boston, MA. 02215, or New England Wildflower Society, 180 Hemenway Road, Framingham, MA. 01701.
      