
        NEUMAN-Robert Nathan. 82, October 28, 2001. Proud proprietor of the Rosedale Fish Market since 1937, he devoted his life to the pursuit of excellence in his trade. In loving memory of his father Billy he ruled his store with humor, wisdom, dignity and single-minded purpose; Charming, challenging and nourishing both the body and the spirits of those he touched. A lifelong New Yorker and member of the City Athletic Club, he served with the 3rd Marines in the Pacific during W.W. II, returning in 1945 to resume building his beloved business. Mentor to many, friend to the downtrodden, a student of the lives of Robert Scott and Sacco and Vanzetti, he leaves the world a better and more compassionate place. He is survived by his wife of 51 years Doris, sons Alan and Paul, four grandchildren and his devoted staff. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Tuesday, October 30, 5-8 PM with service Wednesday 11:30 AM. In lieu of donations please perform a random act of kindness for someone in need.
        NEUMAN-Robert N. The staff of the Rosedale Fish Market is greatly saddened by the loss of our beloved leader, Robert N. Neuman; boss, trusted friend, mentor, confidante, Marine and father-figure. A man of great kindness and compassion, he will be sorely missed by each & every one of us. He was always there for his employees, often going above and beyond the role of employer. A pillar of strength and support, he enabled us to achieve many wonderful goals and dreams that would not have been realized without him. A typical day working with Mr. Neuman, always included lessons about people, fish, history, life and love. His hard work & dedication were examples for us all. We will cherish the many years we spent working along side him and we will forever recall the many laughs he bestowed upon us. We say goodbye with love, respect and gratitude. We had a good run together. Rest in peace our dear friend and know that we love you. We send our deepest sympathies to his wife Doris, his sons Alan and Paul and their families.
      