
        BECKER-Isidore A. On October 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Adele. Loving father of Steven, his wife Abbe, and Carol. Adored grandfather of Robert, Meredith, Emily and Alison. Dear brother of Russ. He will live in our hearts forever and will always be a part of our lives. He was the strength and rock of our family. Service Thursday, 9:30AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave.
        BECKER-Isidore. A son of Russian immigrants, alumnus of Bronx High school of Science and Brooklyn College. A Japanese interpreter for USMC during WW II. Rose through the ranks of business and finance to become CEO, Chairman and President of major corporations. Admired by his peers and loved by his family. He leaves his beloved wife Adele, son Steven, daughter Carol and his four grandchildren-the light of his life Robert, Meredith, Emily and Alison. A man who befriended people of every station in life and always found time to counsel all who needed him. He was my friend and mentor, I shall always miss him. We love you brother. Gloria and Russ
        BECKER-Isidore. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member and benefactor Isidore Becker, beloved husband of our dedicated Sisterhood Vice President Adele, father of Carol and Steven and father-in-law of Abbe, grandfather of Emily and Alison, Robert and Meredith. Our deepest sympathy to the family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry Forst Jack Rosen Vice Presidents
        BECKER-Isidore. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend Isidore Becker. He was a friend and business associate for many years. He will be missed. We extend our sincere sympathy to his family. Harvey R. Chaplin, Southern Wine & Spirits of America Shaw-Ross Int'l Importers
        BECKER-Isidore. Park East Synagogue Sisterhood mourns the passing of the beloved husband of our devoted Vice President, Adele Becker. May she and her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Maguy Naparstek, President Beverly Greenberg, Chairman
      