
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. Peacefully on October 2nd. Beloved husband of Vivian for 56 years. Most cherished father of Connie and her companion, Jehan - Christophe, Philip and Cheryl. Adored grandfather of Abby and Rick, Joanna, Merrie, Josh, Toby and Larry. Devoted brother of Paul and Gloria. A great man, a man of honor, he was loved and respected by all who knew him. Services private. A celebration of his life will be held at a later date.
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague of many years. Our sincerest condolences to Vivian, Philip, Constance, and the entire Milstein and Flanzer families. The Weiler and Arnow Families
        MILSTEIN - Seymour. The Trustees, Physicians, and Staff of New York-Presbyterian Hospital deeply mourn the passing of one of our greatest leaders and benefactors, Seymour Milstein. He was a giant in this city-an extraordinarily successful businessman, a model philanthropist, a statesman concerned about the well-being of the city, and a caring humanist who dedicated himself to helping to provide the highest quality of health care for all the citizens of New York. Truly one of a kind, he was a member of the Board of Trustees of The Presbyterian Hospital in the City of New York beginning in 1988, and served as Chairman from 1989 to 1996. In 1989, he and his family gave the Hospital the single largest donation in its history. The Milstein Hospital Building was named in their honor. During his Chairmanship, The Presbyterian Hospital achieved financial stability, modernized its infrastructure, improved its community outreach, maintained its leadership in research and clinical care, and recruited distinguished clinicians and administrators. A wise counselor, a strong leader, a dedicated supporter, a generous donor, and a devoted friend-all of these qualities characterized Seymour Milstein and his connections to us. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Vivian; his brother, Paul; his son, Philip; his daughter and our esteemed Trustee, Constance; and to the entire Milstein family. John J. Mack Chairman, Board of Trustees Herbert Pardes, M.D. President & CEO New York-Presbyterian Hospital
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The 92nd Street Y, Board of Directors and staff, express their deepest sympathy to the family of Seymour Milstein, who died on October 2, 2001. Seymour Milstein, beloved husband of Vivian for fifty-six years, was the father of Connie and her companion, Jehan-Christophe, Philip and Cheryl. Adored grandfather of Abby and Rick, Joanna, Merrie, Josh, Toby and Larry, Seymour will be much missed by his family and friends. Seymour Milstein handed down the tradition of generosity and support for both the Jewish community and larger community of New York to his family. Philip has been a most devoted member of the Board of the 92nd Street Y since 1978 and became President in 1997. He now serves as Chairman of the Board. Our sincerest condolences to the entire Milstein family. Matthew Bronfman, President Sol Adler, Executive Director
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The people of Columbia University are deeply saddened by the death of Seymour Milstein, a visionary friend and great New Yorker who inspired us with his generous support and thoughtful guidance. He maintained and strengthened ties between Columbia and the Milstein family that now extend across four generations. His commitment to helping others has made an enormous difference in countless lives-not only of our students and faculty in a range of fields, but of people around the world who have benefited from the medical advances his support made possible. Even as we mourn his loss, we consider ourselves fortunate to have known him. George Rupp President, Columbia University David Stern Chair, Columbia University Trustees
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The Edward Harkness Eye Institute and Department of Ophthalmology, Columbia University mourn the loss of Seymour Milstein, a friend, and benefactor of eye research and patients with vision disorders. He was a member of the Board of Advisors and played a vital role in the resurgence of the Eye Institute's mission for outstanding clinical care and research. He was unique in his desire to help others through personal intervention and generosity. We will miss his gentle, softspoken manner which was able to bring people together and projects to completion. Our deepest sympathies are extended to the Milstein family for the loss of this wonderful and truly great man. Stanley Chang, MD, Chairman Department of Ophthalmology Columbia University
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Seymour Milstein, beloved husband of Vivian, a longstanding member of the Child Development Center Divisional Committee. The Milstein family's generous support of the agency and the work of CDC have made a lasting and profound contribution to New York's children and families. We extend our deepest sympathy to Vivian and to the members of her family. Joseph S. Kaplan, President, JBFCS Renee J. Ward, Chairperson, CDC Divisional Committee Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., EVP & CEO, JBFCS Marian Davidson-Amodeo, Director, CDC Alice Kross Frankel, M.D., Director Emerita, CDC
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital's Department of Surgery mourns the passing of this visionary philanthropist and dear friend. His generosity enabled the Department to enhance patient care facilities, recruit and retain outstanding faculty, and launch innovative surgical research programs that are increasing our knowledge of the causes and treatment of human disease. We are grateful for, and will thoroughly miss, his lasting friendship and support of our Department. Our sincere condolences to his wife, Vivian, his children, Constance and Philip, and the entire Milstein family. Eric A. Rose, M.D., Chairman, Department of Surgery, Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The Division of Cardiology, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons mourns the passing of Mr. Seymour Milstein. Mr. Milstein was a close friend to the Division. We will remember him for his generosity of spirit, time, intellect and philanthropy in support of both our academic and patient care missions. His insightful advice and counsel will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Vivian, his children Connie and Philip, his siblings Paul and Gloria, and to the entire Milstein family. Allan Schwartz, M.D. Chief, Division of Cardiology
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. We sadly mourn the loss of our dear friend, mentor, adviser, partner, and a wonderful and special man. We will miss his smile, charm, and guiding hand. We cherish our special relationship. Our deepest condolences to Vivian, Connie and Philip and their families, and to Paul and Gloria and their families. It is truly a sad time. Esther and Oded Aboodi and Family
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The Officers, Board of Govenors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed life member and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Vivian, his son Philip, daughter-in-law Cheryl, his brother Paul, sister-in-law Irma and his family. Corey B. Rabin, President Ronald Stuart, Secretary
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. His intelligence, kindness, generosity, humanity and integrity were of the highest caliber. The world was a better place because he was in it. My profound condolences to my dearest friend Vivian; Connie, Philip, Cheryl, Abby, Rick, Joanna, Meredith, Josh, Toby and Larry and the Flanzer family. Dr. Gladys Rashkoff
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. New York City Opera mourns the passing of the beloved father of our esteemed Board member, Connie Milstein and extends our deepest sympathy to her, her children and the entire Milstein family. Irwin Schneiderman, Chairman Mark Newhouse, President Paul Kellogg, General Director
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. Gil and Laura Stein and Stephen and Judi Goldsmith mourn the loss of Seymour Milstein, a great man whose compassion and strength of character was an inspiration for us all. Our sincerest sympathies are extended to the entire Milstein family.
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. We mourn with his beloved family the loss of a great citizen and cherished friend. William J. vanden Heuvel Anna Eleanor Roosevelt Co-chair Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The Board of Governors, members and staff of the Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Seymour Milstein. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Milstein family. Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The Board of Visitors and the Alumni Association Board of Directors of Columbia College extend deepest sympathy to member emeritus, alumnus and University Trustee Philip Millstein and his family on the passing of his father Seymour Milstein.
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The family of Paul Milstein mourns the loss of Seymour Milstein, beloved brother of Paul and Irma. Uncle of Roslyn and Jerry, Howard and Abby, Barbara and David, Edward and Robin. We will always cherish the happy times we shared and the many years together.
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. To Vivian, Philip and Cheryl, Connie, Paul and Irma, Gloria and Lou, and the entire Milstein Family, our heartfelt condolences on the loss of Seymour, a caring and most respected friend. Marcia and Marvin Sameth
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The devoted, loving family patriarch and dedicated philanthropist. Our sincerest condolences to Vivian, Connie, Philip, the entire Milstein family and our dear friends, Abby & Rick. Sharon and Peter Grossman
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. We mourn with our dear friend and member, Vivian, the great loss of her beloved Seymour. The Monday Bridge Game Marilyn, Barbara, Anka, Tomio
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. Will long be remembered as a great, kind and loving man. We mourn with his beloved Vivian and family. Marilyn and Bob Weinberg
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. A great loss to New York City. My heartfelt sympathy to the Milstein family. Norman F. Levy
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. He was a wonderful friend. We'll miss him very much. Elaine and Arthur Bienenstock
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. Condolences to Vivian and to the Milstein family. We have lost a dear friend. Sylvia and Harold Gelb
      