
        SALOMON-Edna Barnes. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the passing of its beloved friend and benefactor, Edna Barnes Salomon. The wife of the Library's esteemed Chairman Emeritus, the late Richard B. Salomon, and mother of current Library Trustee Richard E. Salomon, Mrs. Salomon was herself a longstanding Library Conservator and member of the President's Council. She and her family have been among the most dedicated advocates and most generous supporters in The New York Public Library's modern history. Their devotion and philanthropy have resulted in a significant strengthening of the Library's endowment, a major expansion of its exhibitions and public programs, and sustained growth of the collections of its Science, Industry and Business Library. We are very proud that one of the Library's major exhibition spaces, the Edna Barnes Salomon Gallery, honors her name and her memory. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her sons, Richard, Robert, and Ralph, and the entire Salomon family. Samuel C. Butler, Chairman Paul LeClerc, President Mrs. Vincent Astor, Honorary Chairman Andrew Heiskell, Elizabeth Rohatyn, Marshall Rose, Chairmen Emeriti
        SALOMON-Edna. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc. deeply mourns the passing of Mrs. Richard B. Salomon, a member of the New York Philharmonic's Board of Directors and a tireless supporter of the Orchestra. Elected to the Philharmonic's Board in 1985, Mrs. Salomon was an enthusiastic participant in all Philharmonic activities and served with distinction on the Board's Education Committee. The Philharmonic is grateful for her generosity in establishing the Edna Barnes Salomon Educational Fund, which supports artistic excellence in young musicians. In recognition of her great generosity and many years of loyal service, Mrs. Salomon was elected an Honorary Board Member in 1992. Together with her husband, the late Richard B. Salomon, she will be remembered as a generous benefactor to many. Her devotion to the New York Philharmonic will long continue to enrich our lives. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her sons Richard, a longtime Philharmonic director, Robert, and Ralph. Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Zarin Mehta, Executive Director
        SALOMON-Edna Barnes. The Rockefeller University community is deeply saddened by the loss of our esteemed friend Edna Barnes Salomon. Mother of Rockefeller University Trustee Richard E. Salomon and widow of late Rockefeller Council member Richard B. Salomon, she will be remembered for her longtime friendship with the University and her interest in and support of its work. Her generosity of spirit was also evident in her special commitment to the New York Public Library, a commitment from which the entire New York City community will long benefit. She will be greatly missed, and we extend our condolences to her son Rick and her entire family. Arnold J. Levine, President Richard B. Fisher, Chairman Board of Trustees, and David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee, Board of Trustees
      