
        COHEN-Donald J.. Dr. was a true giant...world renowned in the field of child and adolescent psychiatry. Uner his leadership, the Yale Child Center became the gold standard for excellence in research, teaching and service. He made the connections between biology, psychoanalysis, and child development understandable and useful. In addition to his pioneering efforts in biological research of Autism and Tourette's syndrome, he was a training analyst and an expert in the development of social interaction in children. He was a founding father in the field of Developmental Psychopathology, which has become a widely used paradigm for conceptualizing psychological well-being and impairment in children. He was at once a true visionary and practical efficient clinician. Using his talents and interest, he impacted the field of child development in everlasting ways worldwide. His singular influence will continue to be transmitted by his pupils in Korea, Turkey, many parts of the former Soviet Union, China and Brazil. He was a forceful, passionate social advocate for children's rights. Undoubtedly, his manifold achievements will be recounted again and again in the tributes paid to him. We, however, will be eternally grateful for two of his great loves: his Jewish heritage and Israel and mentoring the careers of promising young students. A major crystallization of these two passions stands now as the Feinberg Child Study Center at Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel,...the culmination of over two decades of support and inspiration of young clinicians and his multifaceted approach to understanding children. Together with Dr. Alan Apter, Dr. Itamar Shalit, of Israel, and with the encouragement of Mr. Irving Schneider and the Feinberg family, he conceived the development of a center of excellence in Israel. Its mission is to enhance and serve the welfare of children in Israel as well as the entire troubled region. Our work has just begun. It will be an uphill task without Donald's leadership, but his everlasting inspiration will make the Feinberg Child Study Center a true legacy to this great physician. Dr. Itamar Shalit, Dir., SCMCI Dr. Alan Apter, Director, Feinberg Child Study Center The Staff of the Feinberg Child Study Center
        COHEN-Donald J.. Dr., Director, Child Study Center, Yale University. The Members of the Board and Staff of Medical Development for Israel, Inc. and Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel deeply mourn the death of an irreplaceable friend. Dr. Cohen has been a decisive force in developing programs for The Dr. E. Richard Feinberg Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at SCMCI. He also served as Chairman of the International Scientific Council of SCMCI. Dr. Cohen has played a major role in the establishment and served as Trustee of the Feinberg Child Study Center, a collaborative effort between SCMCI, Tel Aviv University and Yale University. He cared deeply about Israel and about SCMCI and he harnessed his knowledge, his wisdom and his boundless energy to furthering the cause of Israel's mental health care delivery. Above and beyond his excellent professional accomplishments, Dr. Cohen's gifts included an ability to work on a grand scale while maintaining a professional and intimate relationship with each and every colleague and patient. He was a superb listener, a great therapist and an incredible friend. His leadership was an inspiration and he will be sorely missed. H. Irwin Levy, Chmn. of the Board Amb. Uri Bar-Ner, V.P., MDI Dr. Itamar Shalit, Dir., SCMCI Dr. Samuel C. Klagsbrun, Trustee
        COHEN-Donald J. The Psychoanalytic Research & Development Fund records with great sorrow the death of a distinguished member of our professional board. Donald Cohen contributed to our work original insights, programs for active intervention and response to social needs, a combination of idealism and practicality, intellectual brilliance and intellectual honesty, leadership and loyalty, with interests in psychoanalysis, neuroscience, psychopharmacology, Jewish scholarship and Jewish communal responsibility, and Israel. Along with his extraordinary professional and academic and communal activities he invested time and energy in his rich family life. He was truly a man of heroic proportions and we shall miss him. We extend our deepest sympathies to Phyllis and their children. Yehi zikhro barukh. Mortimer Ostow, M.D., President Peter B. Neubauer, M.D., Vice-President Henry Nunberg, M.D., Professional Director
      