
        BURNS-Ethel Dagaberta Holland Cherry (nee Bransome) born February 4, 1911 to Emil and Isabelle Bransome after a long courageous battle with Alzheimers disease passed into glory on Sunday, September 30 at 1:02 PM. The death of her father forced her to leave school at 14 to support her mother and 3 brothers, continuing to sustain them all throughout their lives. She had a beautiful voice and sang in the choir of Temple Beth-El in Bradley Beach, NJ. In the 1940's she had three high fashion stores in Miami Beach, FL. carrying haute couture in sportswear and evening clothes. In 1947 she was lauded by Women's Wear Daily as The Small Business Woman of the Year. After Mr. Cherry's death she closed the stores and opened a Barton's candy store in what is now the Bal Harbor shops in Miami Beach, FL. In the 1970's she went to work for a fledgling bridal designer in NYC & built the business from nothing to success. After working 5-1/2 days a week for 26 years she ended her career at the age of 85 when she decided that Alzheimer's disease was robbing her of the things she needed to work: memory & spatial logistics. She was a paragon, the epitome of everything generous and gracious, giving of herself unstintingly to anyone who crossed her path. She graced our lives with compassion, strength and boundless love. Humanity has suffered a deep and abiding loss. Her memory is truly a blessing for all who knew her. Beloved, cherished mother of Joanbarbara Holland Weinstein, adored mother-in-law of Jerome Weinstein, beloved sister of William Bransome, loved sister-in-law of Patricia Bransome, treasured aunt of nine nieces, nephews and grand niece, step-grandchildren Daryl and Seth Weinstein, step-great-grandchild Alexander Weinstein. During her illness she was ministered to by arch-angel Dorinda Lord & angel Antoinette Hampton. Memorial Service at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street on Thursday, October 18 at 3 PM. In lieu of flowers, donations in Ethel's memory may be made to Alzheimer's Association Research, 919 North Michigan Avenue, Suite 1100, Chicago, Illinois 60611. Our hearts are broken for ourselves but we know Ethel is in Paradise sitting ringside.
      