
        SCHWARTZ - Murray. Senator Schwartz, since 1978, the chairman of the board of the Honest Valid Association, a non for profit corporation founded by President Roosevelt in 1909, a former New York State Senator, former New York City Commissioner of Commerce, entrepreneur and community leader died at his summer home in Roslyn, New York, on Friday October 5. He was 82. Cause of death was coronary failure. Senator Schwartz served in the Senate from 1965 to 1973. He introduced legislation which improved New York State's traffic laws and ended the monopolistic Fair Trade Act. He was a founder and Vice President of administration of the Whale Oil Co., which became the second largest independent distributor of heating oil in the New York metropolitan area. Senator Schwartz was Commissioner of Commerce from 1974 to 1977. He was a member of the Interstate Commerce Commission from 1960 to 1964. He was a delegate to five Democratic Presidential Nominating Conventions and a democratic district leader in Queens. Senator Schwartz also founded the American Institute of Traffic Safety in Palm Beach County, Florida to promote safe driving and he owned and operated a number of travel agencies. Senator Schwartz is survived by his wife Janette (Jay); his brother Jack Lawrence, the composer of ''If I Didn't Care'' and other classics; his son and daughter-in-law, Fred and Liz Schwartz; his daughter and son-inlaw, Joanne and Fred LeBow; his grandchildren, Jenifer Cook and Jenifer's husband Chris Cook, David, Michael, Nicole and Alison Schwartz and David's wife Amy Schwartz; and his great-grandchildren Alexi and Stone Cook. The funeral is today at RiversideNassau North in Great Neck, New York, at 11:30 AM.
        SCHWARTZ-Senator Murray. Beloved husband of Jeanette (Jay). Devoted father of Joanne LeBow and Fred Schwartz. cherished grandfather of Jennifer Cook, David, Michael, Nicole and Alison Schwartz, and great-grandfather of Alexis and Stone Cook. Loving brother of Jack Lawrence. Services on Sunday, at 11:30 AM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, New York.
        SCHWARTZ - Murray. Loving brother of Jack Lawrence, passed away on October 5, 2001. You were loved and will be forever missed. Your dreams will go on, sleep well. Jack Lawrence
        SCHWARTZ-Murray. We mourn the passing of our friend of many years. Sloan Family, Miller Family Fleishman Family Rudowitz Family Bordin and Rosenblum Families
      