
        ALDRICH-Larry. The staff of The Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art in Ridgefield, Connecticut, mourns the passing of the Museum's founder and Chairman Emeritus, Larry Aldrich, and celebrates his commitment to emerging artists and the art of our time. His support of the Museum's curatorial and education mission was steadfast and unwavering. His boldness of vision and willingness to take risks are an inspiration to us. We are dedicated to carrying forward his vision of a Museum committed to championing emerging artists. His funding for the purchase of work by emerging artists at the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art, as well as his opening of the Soho Center for Visual Arts in 1973, brought his love for contemporary art to a wider audience. His quiet support of many causes and activities in the Town of Ridgefield, which he loved so well, has improved the life of its citizens. His spirit of adventure, keen intelligence, serene confidence, and sly humor will be deeply missed by us all. We look back fondly on his love for The Aldrich Museum and its exhibitions, how he sang to himself as he walked up the stairs to see a new exhibition, and how his eyes would light up at the sight of children in the Museum's education programs.
        ALDRICH-Larry. The Board of Trustees of The Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art in Ridgefield, Connecticut, mourns the passing and celebrates the achievements of Larry Aldrich, a visionary in the art world. In 1964 Mr. Aldrich founded The Aldrich Museum as a space dedicated to supporting emerging artists and championing new art. Mr. Aldrich was a patron of the arts and cared passionately for The Aldrich Museum. It is because of his legacy of generosity, willingness to explore new artistic trends, and desire to educate others that he leaves behind The Aldrich Museum as a vibrant living testimony to his efforts. We, the Trustees of the Museum Mr. Aldrich founded, reaffirm his vision. We remain dedicated to ensuring the Museum will carry his mission forward, championing the work of emerging artists and educating the public on the art of our times. Memorial contributions may be made to The Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art, 258 Main Street, Ridgefield, CT to support its education and exhibition programs.
      