
        DANNHEISSER - Elaine (Mrs. Werner H.). The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art, along with the members of its International Council, join the art world in mourning the loss of Elaine Dannheisser. Elaine had served as a Trustee of the Museum since 1995, a member of its Committee on Painting and Sculpture since 1990, a member of its Committee on Photography since 1996, and a member of its International Council since 1991. However, these positions do not begin to convey the many ways in which she permanently influenced the Museum's collection, as well as the way in which we experience and study contemporary art. Just four years ago, we celebrated the opening of On the Edge: Contemporary Art from the Werner and Elaine Dannheisser Collection at the Museum. The works of art that entered the Museum's collection on this occasion were as crucial to the collection as the bequest that came to us from one of the Museum's founders, Lillie P. Bliss, whose gift was the basis of our permanent collection and included many works that continue to be most closely associated with the Museum. Our founding Director, Alfred Barr, believed that the Museum's collection should evolve ''as a torpedo moving through time,'' and Elaine's gift enabled it to do just that. Future generations will identify this Museum with works from the Dannheisser collection, such as those by Matthew Barney, Joseph Beuys, Felix Gonzalez-Torres, Robert Gober, Jeff Koons, Brice Marden, Bruce Nauman, Sigmar Polke, Robert Ryman, Richard Serra, and Cindy Sherman, just as current ones identify it with Water Lilies, The Starry Night, and Les Demoiselles d'Avignon. Beginning as a girl from Brooklyn whose mother brought her to the Museum to see Guernica, Elaine has now taken her place alongside such benefactors as Mrs. Simon Guggenheim, Harriet and Sidney Janis, Philip Johnson, William S. Paley, Nelson A. Rockefeller, Louise Reinhardt Smith, and Gordon Bunshaft. Elaine was a consummate collector (acquiring new work right up until the very end), but was also the most insightful benefactress. Over the years, Elaine formed a collection that was deeply personal and distinctly her own. When she decided to give it to the Modern, however, she was doubly generous: in addition to making a monumental gift, she allowed the Museum to accept the works that were needed to build a balanced collection. In some cases, she helped augment existing areas of the collection that were missing key pieces. In others, she gave us the collection's seminal works, such as the first major Barney. Thanks to Elaine, the Museum has the most important collection of Gonzalez-Torres anywhere, and arguably the most important collection of Nauman and Gober in any American museum. Elaine was ever a prescient collector who remained on the sharpest part of the cutting edge of the art world, understanding and appreciating works that were often difficult for those half her age to appreciate or even understand. It is impossible to think of Elaine without thinking of her husband Werner. She clearly had the eye that formed the collection, but she credited Werner with giving her the support (both moral and financial) to realize her vision. At the opening of the exhibition, Elaine described their partnership and her own transformation in these words: ''Werner is the one who created me. He took a young, curious girl and taught her to focus. He opened all the doors for me and made it all happen. In 1982, a young professor at Columbia heard I was collecting works from emerging artists at a furious pace. She called me up to ask if I would speak to her class. I said that I was not qualified, that I had nothing to say, but that I would be happy to answer her students' questions. We set up a date. The morning of our appointment, Werner and I were having breakfast, and he asked what I was doing that day. I said that I was giving a talk at Columbia. He said, ''This I have to see,'' and called up his secretary to cancel all of his appointments for the day. He came up to Columbia with me and sat in the audience with the students. They asked questions nonstop and I answered them all. Werner was so impressed with me that he raised my art allowance. And the rest is history.'' Elaine has passed from being simply a collector, patron, and friend into being a historical figure whose spirit and devotion will live on forever at The Museum of Modern Art. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY Sir Brian Urquhart, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        DANNHEISSER - Elaine. We shared her passion for contemporary art and her early support for the New Museum. Perhaps her greatest achievement was turning the collecting of art into a form of art. Ellyn and Saul Dennison Eileen and Richard Ekstract
        DANNHEISSER - Elaine. Dear Elaine, though we will miss you deeply, we are relieved that finally you will enjoy the peace that has eluded you of late. Your Friends at Honors
      