
        MARQUSEE-Janet Morand, died on October 22nd, aged 69, peacefully at her home among her beloved family and her collection of beautiful art. She was an extraordinary wife, mother, sister, grandmother, friend and aunt. She was also a serious and original artist, an enthusiastic art-dealer, a selftaught scholar of American art and an activist for peace and social justice. She relished her life, her family and the entire visual world. She is deeply missed by her children, Mike and Liz, Jeff, Joanne and Larry, Susan and Alan, and Ellen and Barry, her brother, Martin, and her grandchildren, Alex, Hannah, Rebecca, Sarah, Alison, Lindsay, Rachel and Isabel. A memorial service will be held Sunday, October 28th, 2 PM, at the Lotos Club, 5 E. 66th St., NYC. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the NOW Foundation, 733 15th St., NW, Washington, DC 20005.
        MARQUSEE-Janet. We mourn the loss of our very dear friend, Janet Marqusee and extend our deepest sympathy to her five wonderful children, Michael, Jeff, Joann, Susan, and Ellen, and her lovely grandchildren. Our memories of Janet will always be of the creative, joyful, and fulfulling years we spent with her and her beloved husband, the late John Marqusee. Through a lifetime of activism as a committed humanist, creativity as a gifted artist, and helping her friends whenever called upon, Janet never lost sight of the wonder of her life with her children and grandchildren. We loved her and will miss her deeply. David and Doris Lubell
        MARQUSEE-Janet. The Advisory Council of the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, Cornell University, mourns the passing of one of its beloved members, Janet Marqusee. Mrs. Marqusee was not only a member of this council for many years, she and her husband were brilliant collectors of a great variety of works of art. We are grateful for her wisdom, her warmth, and her idealism.
        MARQUSEE-Janet. The members of the Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and dear friend, Janet Marqusee, and send condolences to her family.
      