
        FRIEDMAN-Dr. Nathalie. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Nathalie Friedman, a cherished friend of the Jewish community and beloved sister of our former board member and longtime advocate, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein. A member of one of New York's leading Jewish families, Dr. Friedman was a brilliant scholar and remarkable person. During her career as a professor of sociology at Barnard College, she conducted meticulous research and produced prominent studies on the role of education on Jewish women, the family, and the community. We send our deepest sympathies to Dr. Friedman's husband, Israel; to her children, Steven and Sheira Schacter, Jessica and Allen Gribetz, Judy and Mark Tykocinski, and Naomi Schacter-Price and Jonathan Price; to her 18 grandchildren; to Rabbi Lookstein and his wife, Audrey; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        FRIEDMAN-Dr. Nathalie (nee Lookstein). The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a distinguished educator who formally served on the faculty of Stern College for Women, beloved wife of Rabbi Israel Friedman and cherished mother of Steve (and Sheira) Schacter, Jessica (and Dr. Allen) Gribetz, Judy (and Mark) Tykochinski, and Naomi (and Dr. Jonathan) Price. She was the beloved sister of Rabbi Haskel (and Audrey) Lookstein, member of the Board of Directors, Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies, and chair holder, Dr. Joseph H. Lookstein Chair of Homiletics at Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. Heartfelt condolences are extended to all the members of the Friedman/ Lookstein families. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren, Chairman YU Board of Trustees
        FRIEDMAN-Dr. Nathalie. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and its affiliates mourn the passing of our esteemed Life Trustee, the beloved wife of our revered member Israel Friedman, the beloved mother of our devoted members, Steven Schacter and Jessica Gribetz and of Judith Tykocinski and Naomi Schacter Price, the beloved sister of Audrey and Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, and the devoted daughter of the late Rabbi and Mrs. Joseph H. Lookstein. She gave loving service to the entire Kehilath Jeshurun family. We all join together to mourn the loss of this extraordinary Jewish woman and extend heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Chaim Edelstein, President
        FRIEDMAN-Nathalie. The Board of Trustees and Administration of The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester acknowledge with profound sorrow the death of Nathalie Friedman, beloved mother of our esteemed trustee Steven Schacter, and grandmother of our alumni Erica, Elizabeth, Joanna and Margot. May her memory be a blessing to her family and may Steve, Sheira, and the entire family find solace in the comfort of friends and community. M. Mac Schwebel, Chairman Board of Trustees James Dubin, Vice Chairman Board of Trustees Elliot D. Spiegel, Headmaster
        FRIEDMAN-Dr. Nathalie. The Ramaz School family mourns tha passing of the beloved mother of our devoted Vice Chairman, Steven Schacter, and our alumnae Jessica Gribetz, Judith Tykocinski and Naomi Schacter Price, the beloved sister of Audrey and Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, and the adoring grandmother of five alumnae and three current students. We extend hearfelt condolences to all the members of the bereaved family. David N. Kahn, Chairman Board of Trustees
        FRIEDMAN-Nathalie. Congregation of Young Israel of Harrison mourns the passing of Nathalie Friedman. Beloved mother of its esteemed board member, Steven Schacter. We extend heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. Yaakov Bienenfeld, Rabbi Stephen Apple, President
      