
        DANIEL-Richard Nicholas. Briarcliff, NY, October 25, 2001. Richard Nicholas Daniel, the former chairman and CEO of Handy & Harman, one of the world's foremost manufacturers of precious metals, and a 30-year resident of Briarcliff Manor, New York, and New York City, died on Thursday at Sleepy Hollow Country Club on the 6th hole after shooting a perfect game, of a heart attack. He was 66. Mr. Daniel retired from Handy & Harman in 1998 after 27 years. Known for his people oriented management style during his leadership, Handy & Harman became a highly respected multi-national diversified industrial manufacturing company. Prior positions included vice president of operations at Wheelabrator-Frye, vice president of finance at Laird Enterprises, Inc., and planning associate at Mobile Corporation. For the last several years Mr. Daniel worked in merchant banking and sat on various boards, including Keyspan Corporation Gabelli Funds. Mr. Daniel was a 1957 graduate of St. John's University and Wharton Business School in 1959. He was a member of Deepdale Country Club in Manhasset, Blindbrook Country Club in Ryebrook, and a past president of the Sky Club of New York City. Mr. Daniel was an inspiring individual who put his family, his friends and his work before himself. He always joked of going from ''Who's Who'' to ''Who's He?'' To friends, he was Dick; to the poker group, he was ''killer,'' and to all, he was an amazingly selfless man. Mr. Daniel is survived by his wife Elaine Sherman Daniel, his sons Matthew Daniel of Philadelphia and Jeffrey Daniel of Washington, DC, and his sister, Linda Llewellyn of Aiken, SC. Visiting hours will be held at Waterbury and Kelly Funeral Home in Briarcliff Manor, NY, on Sunday, October 28, from 2-4 PM and 7-9 PM. A funeral service will be held at Saint Theresa Catholic Church in Briarcliff Manor, NY, on Monday, October 29, at 10 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in honor of Mr. Daniel to The Children's Health Fund of New York City; call 212-452-3340 or www.childrenshealthfund.org. Waterbury & Kelly Funeral Home, 1300 Pleasantville Rd, Briarcliff Manor, NY 10510; 914-941-0838. L
        DANIEL-Richard N. The Board of Governors of The Sky Club records with sadness the sudden passing of our past President and Board of Governor, Richard N. Daniel. We wish to express our deepest sympathies to his lovely wife, Elaine, and his family. Sincerely, John T. Sharkey, President
        DANIEL-Richard N. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President
      