
        MILSTEIN - Seymour. The Trustees, Physicians, and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital deeply mourn the passing of one of our greatest leaders and benefactors, Seymour Milstein. He was a giant in this city-an extraordinarily successful businessman, a model philanthropist, a statesman concerned about the well-being of the city, and a caring humanist who dedicated himself to helping to provide the highest quality of health care for all the citizens of New York. Truly one of a kind, he was a member of the Board of Trustees of The Presbyterian Hospital in the City of New York beginning in 1988, and served as Chairman from 1989 to 1996. In 1989, he and his family gave the Hospital the single largest donation in its history. The Milstein Hospital Building was named in their honor. During his Chairmanship, The Presbyterian Hospital achieved financial stability, modernized its infrastructure, improved its community outreach, maintained its leadership in research and clinical care, and recruited distinguished clinicians and administrators. A wise counselor, a strong leader, a dedicated supporter, a generous donor, and a devoted friend-all of these qualities characterized Seymour Milstein and his connections to us. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Vivian; his brother, Paul; his sister, Gloria; his son, Philip; his daughter and our esteemed Trustee, Constance; and to the entire Milstein family. John J. Mack Chairman, Board of Trustees Herbert Pardes, M.D. President and CEO NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Seymour Milstein, a distinguished leader in the Jewish community. As one of New York's most prominent real estate developers, he was deeply admired for his extraordinary leadership in business and philanthropy. His professional success was matched only by his compassionate concern for others. Through his exceptional devotion to UJA-Federation and its beneficiary agencies, he improved medical, educational, and cultural services for thousands of people in our community. His significant contributions to the Jewish community, and to humanitarian causes throughout New York City, will be felt for generations to come. As a beloved father and husband, Mr. Milstein's philanthropic concerns live on in the continuing efforts of his son, Philip, who is co-chair of UJA-Federation's Capital Gifts and Special Initiatives and past president of the 92nd Street YM-YWHA, and in the generous commitment of the entire Milstein family. We extend our deepest sympathies to Philip; to Mr. Milstein's beloved wife, Vivian; to his daughter, Constance; and to the entire Milstein family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. Temple Israel Center of White Plains mourns the passing of Seymour Milstein, a long standing member of our community. A wise, courtly, and generous man, he was a prime mover in conceiving of, and making possible, the physical renewal of our synagogue, and particularly the sanctuary that bears his family name. Known as a builder of structures, his manifold philanthropic endeavors throughout the metropolitan area will ensure that he is remembered as a builder of medical knowledge, of understanding and tolerance, and of religious communities. Our deepest condolences go to his wife Vivian, to his children Philip and Cheryl, and Connie and her companion Jehan-Christophe, to his grandchildren Abby and Rick, Joanna, Merrie, Josh, Toby, and Larry, to his brother Paul and Irma, and to his greater family. May his memory endure as a blessing. Gordon Tucker, Rabbi Mark Bieler, President
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The faculty, staff, students and alumni of Columbia University's Health Sciences Division mourn the loss of our esteemed friend and benefactor, Seymour Milstein. Mr. Milstein served as Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Presbyterian Hospital from 1989 to 1996. Mr. Milstein defined the word philanthropist. The ongoing strength and reputation of our medical enterprise reflect the decisiveness and vision that marked his leadership at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He leaves a legacy of generosity that honors our physicians, educational programs and patient care. He will be greatly missed. We offer our condolences to his family and friends. Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D. Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences Columbia Univ. Health Sciences
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The American Jewish Committee has lost a dear friend and generous benefactor with the passing of Seymour Milstein. Seymour, a longtime leader and, along with his beloved wife Vivian, a member of our National Leadership Council, took great pride in his involvement with AJC and his support of Israel and the Jewish community worldwide. A giant in business, a true philanthropist and a man of great principle and humanity, he made a real difference in the lives of his fellow New Yorkers, his fellow Jews and all those fortunate enough to have been touched by his wisdom and kindness. We send our most heartfelt condolences to Vivian, his children Connie and Philip, his grandchildren, and the entire family. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Exec. Director
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Seymour Milstein. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The Board of Columbia/Barnard Hillel mourns with deepest sorrow the passing of Seymour Milstein, father of our esteemed board member, Philip Milstein. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Vivian and Philip and Cheryl and the entire Milstein family. Prof. Robert Pollack, President Earle W. Kazis, Chairman Arthur O. Sulzberger, Chairman, Executive Committee Rabbi Charles H. Sheer, Jewish Chaplain Joanne Ben-Avi, Director of Development
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The Masorti Foundation for Conservative Judaism in Israel notes with sorrow the passing of Seymour Milstein, a friend and supporter of the Foundation and of the movement for religious pluralism in Israel that it represents. As will so many, we too will always remember his generosity. Our condolences to his wife Vivian, his children Constance and Philip, and their families. Gordon Tucker, Chairman Daniel Allen, President
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. We mourn with you, dearest sister Vivian, the great loss of our brother-in-law Seymour. May his numerous acts of kindness bring solace to you, Connie and Philip and all their families. Clarice and Arnold Levy Robert and Mary Ann Leiner Our children and grandchildren
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. Our family mourns the passing of our trusted friend, with whom we shared so many spirited adventures throughout the decades. Our sincere condolences to Vivian, Connie and Philip and the extended family. The Milton Family Ilo and Michael Milstein
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The family of Paul Milstein mourns the loss of Seymour Milstein, beloved brother of Paul and Irma. Uncle of Roslyn and Jerry, Howard and Abby, Barbara and David, Edward and Robin. We will always cherish the happy times we shared and the many years together.
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. Our hearts and most profound sympathy go to our dear friend, Vivian, on the loss of her beloved husband. Your Westchester Mon. Bridge Group Judy, Fran, Dorothy, Marcia T., Marcia S., Elly, Joy, Bunny
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. We deeply feel the loss of our distinguished Chairman whose wisdom and friendship we shall greatly miss. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Milstein family. Employees of Milstein Properties
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague of many years. Our sincerest condolences to Vivian, Philip, Constance, and the entire Milstein and Flanzer families. The Weiler and Arnow Families
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. Dear Vivian, we grieve with you and your family for the loss of your wonderful Seymour. His precious friendship will never be forgotten. Francine and Michael Tancer
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. A great, sensitive, caring man has left us. We will greatly miss him. Our thoughts are with his dear wife Vivian and the Milstein family. Linda and David Perlmutter
      