
        WHALEN-James J. A memorial service will be held Friday, October 12, for James J. Whalen, president emeritus of Ithaca College. Whalen, who led the College during a period of unprecedented growth, passed away Thursday, September 6, in Boston after a brief illness. The memorial mass will be held at 3:00 P.M. at Immaculate Conception Catholic Church in Ithaca, with Father John DeSocio officiating. A campus reception will follow at the James J. Whalen Center for Music. He is survived by his wife, Gillian Hamer Whalen; brothers Robert, Frank, & Jerome; sister Mary Noel; & their families. During Whalen's presidency, from 1975 to 1997, the College experienced increases in academic and cocurricular programs, in the size and caliber of the faculty, in the number and quality of the students, and in physical and fiscal resources. Upon his retirement he was named president emeritus & was awarded the honorary degree of doctor of humane letters. Born March 6, 1927, in Pottsville, Pennsylvania, he was a graduate of Franklin and Marshall College. He held Master's and Doctoral degrees in clinical psychology from Pennsylvania State University and was a licensed clinical psychologist. Before coming to Ithaca College, he served as president of Newton College of the Sacred Heart and held a variety of administrative positions at Ohio University and the University of Maryland. In a 1986 Exxon Foundation study, he was named one of the nation's top 100 higher education chief executive officers. In 1997 the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU) gave him the Henry Paley Memorial Award for outstanding service. He was also awarded honorary doctor of law degrees from both Newton College and Ohio University. In 1999 the Ithaca College Alumni Association named in his honor the James J. Whalen Meritorious Service Award, which recognizes distinguished achievements and contributions to the College by nongraduates. The new home of the College's founding school, the School of Music, was dedicated as the James J. Whalen Center for Music in October 1999. He had served as chairman of the boards of directors of the American Council on Education (ACE), the NAICU, and New York's Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities. A champion of integrity in intercollegiate athletics, he was a charter member of the Presidents Commission of the NCAA and chair of its Division III subcommittee, co-chair of the NCAA Task Force on Gender Equity, and a member of the Knight Foundation Commission on Intercollegiate Athletics. For his contributions to higher education in the military, he received the Exceptional Service Award, the highest civilian honor given by the U.S. Air Force, and was named an honorary member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He had served as chairman of the boards of visitors of both Air University and the Army War College, and he was a member of the board of visitors of the Marine Corps University. He was technical adviser to the Process for Accreditation of Joint Education of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as well as educational consultant for the chairman of that endeavor. He had most recently served on the board of advisers for the National Student Records Clearinghouse and as a mentor for the ACE fellows program. Contributions in his name can be made to support the Turtle Bridge Scholarship, which was established by James and Gillian Whalen to honor academically outstanding seniors who are actively involved in the campus and/or local communities. Donations should be sent C/O Shelley Semmler, vice president for institutional advancement, Ithaca College, 237 Alumni Hall, Ithaca, New York 14850.
      