
        BECKER-Isidore A. On October 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Adele. Loving father of Steven, his wife Abbe, and Carol. Adored grandfather of Robert, Meredith, Emily and Alison. Dear brother of Russ. He will live in our hearts forever and will always be a part of our lives. He was the strength and rock of our family.
        BECKER-Isidore. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Isidore Becker, a cherished friend of the Jewish community, who was deeply devoted to Israel and the welfare of Jews around the world. Jointly committed to philanthropy, Isidore, with his beloved wife, Adele, have been exemplary leaders of UJA - Federation. Through their exceptional support of UJA-Federation's Capital Development Fund, Isidore and Adele helped revitalize our social-service network, improving the lives of thousands of individuals and families in need in Israel and around the world. Isidore's compassion and commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes will live on in the continuing efforts of his family. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Adele; to his son, Steven and his daughter-in-law Abbe; to Isidore's daughter Carol; to his grandchildren Robert, Meredith, Emily, and Alison; and to the entire Becker family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        BECKER-Isidore A. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and client Isidore Becker. He will forever remain in our memories. We extend our sincere sympathy to his family. Snow Becker Krauss PC Charles Snow Harvey Krauss Jack Becker Paul Kurland Mark Borten
        BECKER-Isidore A. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert Chairman J. Ezra Merkin President
        BECKER-Isidore A. Buchman & O'Brien, LLP, fondly remembers Isidore Becker, a beloved family man and an industry leader who was an inspiration to so many of us. Buchman & O'Brien, LLP
        BECKER-Isidore A. The Abraham M. Buchman family expresses their deepest condolences on the passing of our dear friend, Isidore Becker. Abraham, Ann & Amy Buchman
      