
        DAY-Edward. 45. Firefighter. Friend to all. As a firefighter for 13 years, Edward (Eddy) Day, 45, loved his job as a member of Engine Company 28 and Ladder 11 on Manhattan's Lower East Side. He transferred there in 1989 after having been posted briefly at Engine Company 4, also in Lower Manhattan. The members of both firehouses knew him as a fun loving friend to all. Including Eddy, six members of Ladder 11 are missing as a result of the collapse of the World Trade Center. Eddy was a life-long resident of Staten Island who enjoyed participating in many sporting activities. He was a thirddegree black belt in karate and enjoyed teaching children the discipline and respect associated with karate. He was an accomplished runner who ran in the NYC marathon several times. He was an avid golfer who enjoyed taking trips to Myrtle Beach, SC, with his golfing buddies. Eddy was very proud to have learned to swim at the age of 40. He attended St. John the Baptist de la Salle grammar school, Curtis High School, and Staten Island Community College. His love of the outdoors and nature held a large place in his heart. This love extended towards various animals that he and his wife cared for in their home: a dog, several cats, three snakes and a rabbit. He and Bridgitte (Gitta), his wife of 20 years, and the same group of friends always vacationed at least one week per year in the Adirondacks Mountains of upstate New York. ''His eyes would light up when he talked about vacationing at Pecks Lake,'' said his long time friend Margaret Duffy-Shanley. He had an appetite for learning new things. If a topic interested him, he would simply read a book on the subject and then do it. He enjoyed troubleshooting computers, he re-built his garage and added a deck and a new roof onto his house. He was a self-taught auto and motorcycle mechanic as well. He learned German so that he would be able to communicate with his wife's family. He very much enjoyed visiting Germany and spending time with his family and friends there who miss him dearly. ''He was my life,'' said his wife. Known for his love of fun and friends, Eddy enjoyed relaxing with the occasional beer and schnapps. ''He was always the life of the party, usually laughing the hardest at his own jokes,'' said his mother, Grace Day. The memorial service for Edward Day will be held on Saturday, October 6, 2001, at 2:00 PM on Staten Island at the Music Hall at Snug Harbor Cultural Center. He is survived by his wife Gitta, brothers Bill and Tim, sister Liz, and parents Edward & Grace.
      