
        DeMATTEIS-Frederick. On October 16, 2001. Beloved husband of Nancy. Devoted father of Linda, Richard, Scott and Tracey. Also survived by 13 grandchildren. Brother of Dolly and Alfonso. Reposing at Weigand Bros., 49 Hillside Avenue, Williston Park. Funeral Mass Thursday, October 18th, 2001, at 10 A.M., St. Aidan R.C. Church, 505 Willis Avenue, Williston Park. Entombment Nassau Knolls Cemetery.
        DeMATTEIS - Frederick. The Board of Governors, Administration, and Staff of St. Francis Hospital, The Heart Center, expresses their deepest sympathy on the death of longtime friend and colleague, Frederick DeMatteis. As a building contractor, Mr. DeMatteis constructed prominent structures regionally and throughout the world. He also applied visionary qualities to assist St. Francis Hospital in its expansion from a small community hospital into one of the nation's leading heart centers. While serving as Chairman of the Hospital's Board of Directors from 1985 to 1987, and throughout his service as a Board Member, he guided the Hospital's mission with extraordinary dedication and wisdom. His leadership role in the 1992 acquisition of The DeMatteis Center for Cardiac Research and Education in Old Brookville was an extension of his deep-seated concern for the health and wellbeing of the community. The enormous generosity and friendship of Fred and his devoted wife, Nancy, are unparalleled in the history of St. Francis Hospital. We extend our prayers and condolences to his loving family in this time of sorrow.
        DeMATTEIS-Fred. Our hearts are saddened by the loss of this outstanding and wonderful person Fred DeMatteis who was an inspired visionary leader. He was a loving and dedicated husband to Nancy and an outstanding father and grandfather. He was a friend beyond measure, a master builder whose enthusiasm & great ability was truly recognized. He was a man for all seasons, loving, caring, sensitive, kind and kind to all who knew him. Fred, you'll never be forgotten. We will miss you and honor you always. Donald and Joan Schaeffer Manny and Irene Schaeffer
        DeMATTEIS-Frederick. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Frederick DeMatteis. He was all that is best. There was never a more devoted friend, generous and caring philanthropist and extraordinary businessman. All those who knew him are enriched by that experience. The structures he built are constant reminders of a life greatly lived. We extend our deepest sympathies to his entire family. Ruskin, Moscou, Evans and Faltischek, P.C.
        DeMATTEIS-Frederick. We deeply mourn the passing of Fred DeMatteis, a giant among men. His giving and kind nature will always be remembered. Our condolences to his wife, Nancy, his children, grandchildren, sister and brother, and their families. David and Joan Serko Rick and Terri Serko Peter and Wendy Lewis and their families
        DeMATTEIS-Fred. Fred was a gracious and talented gentleman. A great visionary and developer whose many talents helped to build New York City into the world's capital. Our deepest respect and love to Nancy and to the family. Jerome and Maxine Belson
        DeMATTEIS-Frederick. The New York area has lost a true and generous leader and ''builder'' of our community. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family, friends & all who share this loss. Sandy Schlesinger, Tom Gannon of Kaye Scholer LLP
        DeMATTEIS-Fred. We have lost our dear friend, a man whose love, kindness and strength was an inspiration to everyone he touched. We will miss you. Meryl and Ron
      