
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. Temple Israel Center of White Plains mourns the passing of Seymour Milstein, a long standing member of our community. A wise, courtly, and generous man, he was a prime mover in conceiving of, and making possible, the physical renewal of our synagogue, and particularly the sanctuary that bears his family name. Known as a builder of structures, his manifold philanthropic endeavors throughout the metropolitan area will ensure that he is remembered as a builder of medical knowledge, of understanding and tolerance, and of religious communities. Our deepest condolences go to his wife Vivian, to his children Philip and Cheryl, and Connie and her companion Jehan-Christophe, to his grandchildren Abby and Rick, Joanna, Merrie, Josh, Toby, and Larry, to his brother Paul and Irma, to his sister Gloria and Louis Flanzer, and to his greater family. May his memory endure as a blessing. Gordon Tucker, Rabbi Mark Bieler, President
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The Board and staff of The Humpty Dumpty Institute mourn with deepest sorrow the passing of Seymour Milstein, father of our esteemed CoChair, Constance Milstein. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Vivian, his daughter, Constance, and his grandchildren, Abby and Joanna, and the entire Milstein family. Michael W. Sonnenfeldt, Co-Chair William J. Rouhana, Co-Chair Ralph L. Cwerman, President The Humpty Dumpty Institute
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. We mourn the loss of our beloved brother and uncle. Beyond his professional achievements, Seymour shared with us his love and wisdom. He was a source of quiet strength and dignity. We treasure our memories of a lifetime together and deeply mourn his loss even as we celebrate his life. Gloria, Louis & Jan Flanzer
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The family of Paul Milstein mourns the loss of Seymour Milstein, beloved brother of Paul and Irma. Uncle of Roslyn and Jerry, Howard and Abby, Barbara and David, Edward and Robin. We will always cherish the happy times we shared and the many years together.
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague of many years. Our sincerest condolences to Vivian, Philip, Constance, and the entire Milstein and Flanzer families. The Weiler and Arnow Families
      