
        LADLEY-James Patrick, 41, a Cantor Fitzgerald Partner and Corporate Bond Broker, was working at 1 World Trade Center on the 104th floor. James was last spoken to at work on the morning of September 11th. He was a lifelong resident of Staten Island, NY, where he attended Saint Adalbert's and Moore Catholic High School. An accomplished athlete, he lettered four years and was captain of the baseball and basketball teams. He earned a baseball scholarship to North Adams State College, Massachusetts, where he played for four years in his best known position as catcher. He graduated in 1982 and was awarded a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration. James Ladley returned home to Staten Island where his love for baseball resumed with the TWYFord Muche Leagues. At the same time, he pursued his interests in Finance and Economics, which ultimately led him to a successful career. James P. Ladley began his career on Wall Street 17 years ago. He started as an assistant broker at Fundamental Brokerage, Inc. James spent many evenings entertaining clients and built strong business relationships as well as friendships along the way. He moved to Chapdelaine Corporate Securities, became a Partner and held a position within the corporate bond division. James continued his successes as he accepted a new position at Cantor Fitzgerald. For over six years he enjoyed working for the firm as a Partner and as a corporate bond broker, one of the top producers for the firm. James won the respect and admiration of his many friends and co-workers. He expected a lot from himself and out of life. He had a tremendous work ethic and a rigorous schedule that began at 5 AM and ended at 7 PM: it was just a day's work. James P. Ladley also loved the recreational game of golf. He truly enjoyed the friendships and the beauty it offered. These past few years on any given Saturday, he could be found on the Green at the Colts Neck Golf Club. He was the first club member to achieve a ''hole in one'' on the 10th. Settling in Colts Neck 11 years ago, he took great pride in being an active member of his community. James contributed throughout his life to many charities, funds and organizations. Being a New Yorker and having such great appreciation for athletics, he became a die hard Yankees and Rangers fan. He liked going to restaurants, concerts, shows and most of all, he enjoyed coming home to his family, to a nice meal and watching a ball game. James' motivation in life was the love for his family, instilled by his loving parents James and Dolores and siblings MaryAnn, Eileen, Daniel and Patrick. He was a respectful, caring son, and being the oldest, he was the perfect example of a big brother. He always took pride in himself and the importance of always trying to do what was right. James Ladley was loved by all who knew him, especially his family. Jim was a terrific husband and dedicated father, and was cherished by his wife, Sheri, and their two young children, Elizabeth and James. He is the heart and soul of a secure and loving home. Jim, Jimmy, Daddy and Uncle Jimmy will always remain in our hearts and will be missed deeply. Memorial Mass Monday, October 15,2001, 2PM, the Cathedral of St. Patrick's, Madison and East 50th, New York City. In lieu of flowers: ''The Memorial Trust F/B/O the Children of James Ladley,'' c/o First Union, Colts Neck Office, State Highway 34 Artisan Way, Colts Neck, NJ 07722. Visit website: www.jamesladley. com for more information.
      