
        SCHWARBERG-Craig Frederick. March 27, 1956 - October 18, 2001. Craig Frederick Schwarberg passed away October 18, 2001, after a long illness. Craig was born in Pasadena, California, and raised in Whittier and Tiburon, California. He attended Stanford University, was a member of the Varsity Water Polo team, and graduated in 1978 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science. Craig worked briefly at Evanston Hospital in Illinois. In 1980, he moved to Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates as an executive for the country's health and hospital program. After returning to the United States, Craig earned his Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Chicago in 1982. He began working in public finance at Shearson Lehman Brothers in San Francisco, and in 1986, moved to New York City to work in the corporate finance area. In 1992, he joined International Insurance Advisors, a private equity fund focused on the insurance industry. He served on many boards of directors, in this country and abroad. Craig moved to Kansas City in 1996, where he became involved in a number of community organizations. He was a committed Cub Master for the Boy Scouts of America. He served as a member of the Board of Directors at the Alliance for Epilepsy Research and also for the Kansas Cancer Institute. He was Chairman of the Board of ReStart, an organization serving the homeless of greater Kansas City. Craig was a mentor with the Helzberg Entrepreneurial Mentoring Program, and served as Vice President of Finance for the National Brain Tumor Foundation, headquartered in California. Craig is survived by his wife, Joann; their children Carter, Guerin, and Laine; his parents Clifford and Katherine Schwarberg of Belvedere, California; his sisters Lynn Lubbock of Tiburon, California and Ann Gaillard of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and nieces Jaime and Lindsey Lubbock. A Celebration of Life memorial service was held Friday, October 26th in Prairie Village, Kansas. Any memorial contributions may be made to ReStart, 918 E. 9th Street, Kansas City, Missouri, 64106 or The National Brain Tumor Foundation, 414 13th Street, Oakland, California, 94612.
      