
        BELCHER-Benjamin Moore Jr., 66. Died October 3, 2001 at a Bangor hospital. He was born March 4, 1935 in New York City, the son of Ben Moore and Nancy (Knapp) Belcher Sr. Benjamin attended the Taft School, Princeton University, class of 1957 and received a law degree from the University of Virginia. He retired as Senior Vice President and Board of Directors of the Benjamin Moore Paint Company. In 1999, Benjamin was ''Man Of The Year'' of the AntiDefamation League Award, for the Paint Industry and he was an advisor to the Benjamin Moore Scholarship Fund in Ireland. Benjamin was active in both, the Bar Harbor Congregation Church, Bar Harbor, ME and the Congregational Church of Naples, FL., as a member of their choirs. He was a member of the Mt. Desert Summer Choral, on the board of the Wendell Gilley Museum, co-chair of fundraising Capital Campaign of Harbor House, a member of the Southwest Harbor fleet, the Causeway Club in Southwest Harbor and the Collier Reserve and Athletic Country Club of Naples, FL. Benjamin is survived by his wife Diana (Lupien) Belcher of Southwest Harbor and Naples, FL. One son, Benjamin M. Belcher III and wife Tracy of St. Charles, IL. One daughter, Allyson K. Sarkis and husband Paul and granddaughter Shivaun of Sidney, Australia. Stepchildren; Chandler Woodall of Stamford, CT, Marshall and Cecilia Woodall, Elmsford, NY. Debi and Les Draper and their children Andie and Noah of Huntington Beach, CA. One brother, Ward C. Belcher and wife Susan of Ridgewood, NJ. Two sisters; Jane Phinney and husband George of Ripton, VT and Sara Wardell and husband Richard of Salisbury, CT, and several nieces and nephews. He was predeceased by a brother, Dr. Jonathan Belcher and one sister, Nancy Ann Belcher. A service of remembrance will be held 10:30 AM, Monday, October 8, 2001 at the Bar Harbor Congregational Church, Bar Harbor, ME, with Reverend Dr. Sandra Reed officiating. In lieu of flowers, family has requested contributions go to the Capital Campaign for Harbor House in Southwest Harbor, ME 04679. For information contact, Fernald Funeral Chapel, Mt. Desert, ME.
      