
        WILSON-Jeffrey T., Wall Street Trader and philanthropist, died Wednesday, October 10th in Houston, Texas. After surviving a terrible automobile accident on September 11, 2000, Mr. Wilson fought against the odds towards recovery. His recovery spanned from Hollywood Memorial Hospital in Florida to New York Presbyterian Cornell Medical Center to Mary Manning Nursing Home in New York City and finally the Institute of Research and Rehabilitation in Houston, Texas. Just 5 days short of his return home to Boca Raton, Florida, Mr. Wilson was overcome by infection, pneumonia, and then further complications. After completing college at Northeastern University in Boston, Mr. Wilson went to Wall Street where he started as a market maker for STS Securities on the floor of the American Stock Exchange. After a couple of years, Mr. Wilson broke away to form his own company, Rockrimmon Securities. Starting with 4 traders on the Amex floor, Mr. Wilson went on to build a group of companies spanning across the country, employing several hundred traders. Some of the companies he started are JAS Securities, Rockrimmon Commodities, Tiger Options, Pacific Coast Capital, West Coast Capital, JGM Securities and Broadway Trading, LLC. Mr. Wilson also had an interst in entertainment, where he had partnerships in the Art Bar in Stamford, CT., Christopher's Night Club in Ft. Lauderdale, FL., and Direct Tickets in Florida. In 1997, Mr. Wilson turned his interest towards charity as he felt very fortunate with his successes in business, he felt the strong need to help others not as fortunate. In 1998, Mr. Wilson was named one of the Top 50 Jewish Community Builders of South Palm Beach County. In 3 years Mr. Wilson made a significent impact to the community. He was on the Board of Directors for the Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach County, Ruth Rales Jewish Family Services and the Jewish Braille Institute. A Trustee to the Washington Institute and the Simon Weisthenthal Center. A member/supporter of the Anti-Defamation League, the Jewish Adoption and Foster Care, Florence Fuller Child Development Centers, the Jewish Federation's prime Ministers Club, the Israeli Bond Society and United Way's Alexis de Tocqueville Society. Mr. Wilson founded and funded the Hebrew Free Loan Society and the Big Pals/Little Pals program for Ruth Rales Jewish Family Services. As chairman for King David Society of Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach County, Mr. Wilson organized and led a mission to Cuba in 1999. He was also a major contributor to Clerisy Academy in Boca Raton, Florida. Never one to say ''no'', Mr. Wilson would provide the Christmas toys to several organizations where there weren't enough funds. Though Mr. Wilson's life was short, he left an enormous impact on all of those he met. Full of life and love, he is survived by his wife Christina and their two sons, Sammy and Jake, mother Merle Schwartz and siblings Lauren Heller, William Wilson and Elizabeth Shapiro all of Boca Raton, Florida. Funeral Services took place on October 14, 2001 at Temple Beth El in Boca Raton, Florida.
      