
        BRENNER-Erma, 1911-2001. An author and educator with a special interest in children's play, sends her last adieux to the many relatives, friends, and colleagues who loved and admired her and to the much larger number of children who profited from her efforts on their behalf. Erma was discovered to have multiple myeloma in July 2001. She died of it on October 15th. Her long life was vibrant and full. A born story teller, she was author of ''A New Baby, A New Life!'' (Christopher Award, 1973), numerous children's stories, and a fictionalized memoir called ''Echoes.'' The crowning achievement of her later years was a children's program called ''Small House,'' a play program for children of elementary school age that served two functions. It brought joy into the lives of the children for whom it was designed and it was a highly successful means of crisis prevention for many children who were emotionally disturbed by current events in their lives. In April 2001 the Parent/Child Center of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute arranged a special meeting for the presentation and discussion of the ''Small House'' program. The meeting was largely attended and enthusiastically received. In addition, an ''Erma Brenner'' prize award was established by a generous friend and admirer for the best paper on children's play. At Erma's request there will be neither funeral nor a memorial meeting to celebrate her accomplishments. She said, ''I don't need a memorial meeting. The April meeting was the best tribute to my work that I could have wished for, and I was there to enjoy it as well.'' Those who wish may contribute to the Parent/Child Center of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, 247 East 82nd Street, New York, New York 10028. For 66 years Erma was the devoted, inspiring, and beloved wife and best friend of Dr. Charles Brenner, who survives her. She is also survived by two daughters, three grandchildren and a newly arrived great-grandson.
        BRENNER-Erma. The New York Psychoanalytic community has lost a unique individual, Erma Brenner, wife of Dr. Charles Brenner, our distinguished former President, teacher and colleague. Mrs. Brenner contributed to the field of child development in her own right. In her early 20s, she opened and operated her own camp for girls, then began working with nursery-age children. She later wrote the book ''A New Baby! A New Life!'', which won the 1974 Christopher Award. Her work with emotionally disturbed children included the creation of ''The Small House'' program in hospital settings. Her contributions are recognized in the establishment of the Erma Brenner Prize for the best paper on Psychoanalytic Aspects of the Play State. Erma had a rare combination of intelligence, wit, exuberance and the ability to make people feel comfortable. She could be the life of the party and yet was often the first to speak for the underprivileged. Her warmth and generosity was experienced by her family as well as a multitude of friends. In addition to being Dr. Brenner's best friend and constant partner, she also joined him in playing beautiful piano duets. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Dr. Brenner, daughters Lucy and Elsa, and their families. Philip Herschenfeld, M.D., Pres., N.Y. Psychoanalytic Institute Leon Kupferstein, M.D., President N.Y. Psychoanalytic Society Edward Nersessian, M.D., Chairman, Educational Comm., N.Y. Psychoanalytic Institute
        BRENNER-Erma. The Parent Child Center of The New York Psychoanalytic Society deeply mourns the passing of our very dear friend, Erma Brenner. Erma loved children, loved to play with them, and was a passionate teacher-teaching parents and professionals the magic of play for all children. Her life's work was Play and Psychoanalysis. She created The Small House, a play modality for crisis prevention, crisis intervention, and crisis management, where children have the opportunity to express their wishes, fantasies, and anxieties under the watchful eye of benevolent and non-intrusive adults. As Erma told us: ''The Small House was designed as a magic place where the adults were the children's play companions. They would take any role in the children's fantasy play that the children asked them to take.'' In 1997, she was the first Honoree of The Friends of The Parent Child Center. In 2000, The Erma Brenner Research Fund was established at The Parent Child Center in her honor, where she was Senior Consultant. We extend our condolences to Dr. Charles Brenner and their family. We will miss Erma very much. Leon Hoffman, M.D. and Susan P. Sherkow, M.D., Co-Directors
      