
        BEKER-Sonia. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of the cherished mother of YU philanthropist Harvey Beker. Together with his wife Jayne, YU Trustee and founding member and current chair of the Board of Governors of Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology, he has always been devoted to Jewish education and communal causes. The Bekers are YU Benefactors who recently established an innovative program at Ferkauf to upgrade psychological services at Jewish day schools and high schools. We extend heartfelt condolences to Harvey and Jayne Beker, William Beker, Carol and Rodney Grundman, and their families. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren, Chairman Board of Trustees
        BEKER-Sonia. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Sonia Beker, beloved mother of Harvey Beker, an exemplary leader of UJA-Federation who serves on our Board of Directors and supports many agencies within our social-service network, including the BronxRiverdale YM-YWHA & Selfhelp Community Services. Harvey's wife, Jayne, is also a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. We extend our deepest sympathies to Harvey and Jayne, to Sonia's daughter Carol, to Sonia's son William, to her six grandchildren, and to her entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Joan Ginsburg, Chair of the Women's Campaign
        BEKER-Sonia. The Trustees and staff of the Riverdale Y are profoundly saddened by Sonia Beker's death. Our prayers go out to her family, which includes our friend and esteemed colleague Harvey Beker. Harvey's love of, and extraordinary work on behalf of, the Jewish people reflect his mother's beliefs and values. May the family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and may they be spared further sorrow. Judy Kaufthal, President Jeffrey A. Moerdler, Chairman Diane Rubin, Executive V.P.
        BEKER-Sonia. The Aleph Society mourns the passing of Sonia Beker, mother of our esteemed benefactor, Harvey Beker. The legacy of her loving kindness continues through the good deeds and the grace of her children and grandchildren. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz Jack Nash, Chairman Ludwig Bravmann, President
        BEKER-Sonia. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our devoted trustee and benefactor, Harvey Beker, and extends heartfelt sympathy to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        BEKER-Sonia. SAR Academy extends condolences to our devoted friend, supporter and Officer, Harvey Beker, upon the loss of his beloved mother. May the family find solace in her loving memory and be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jack C. Bendheim, President
      