
        DeMATTEIS-Frederick. We are deeply saddened by the loss of Fred DeMatteis, a great friend and gentleman. His leadership and inspiration will be missed by all of us. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire DeMatteis, family and his colleagues at the DeMatteis Organizations. MB Real Estate
        DeMATTEIS-Frederick. We extend to the entire DeMatteis family our deepest sympathy. Fred was a dear friend who was admired and loved by generations of our family. We will miss his humor and affection and we will remember for years his towering achievements. The Cooper Family
        DeMATTEIS-Frederick. The Long Island Regional Office of the AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of our esteemed 2000 Champion of Liberty and longtime supporter, Fred DeMatteis. Our condolences to his family. Michael Faltischek, Board Chair Phyllis Barell, Regional Director
        DeMATTEIS-Fred. Our heartfelt condolences to Nancy, Linda, Richard, Scott, Tracey, and the entire DeMatteis family. Fred was the best friend, best partner and best lunch companion. Words can not describe what a class act he was. Richard & Carol Kalikow
        DeMATTEIS-Fred. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Fred DeMatteis, a client and friend, whose character, judgement and kind nature will always be remembered. We extend our sympathies to Nancy, and his entire family. Albert Walsh, and Seward & Kissel, LLP
        DeMATTEIS-Fred. Fred was a gracious and talented gentleman. A great visionary and developer whose many talents helped to build New York City into the world's capital. Our deepest respect and love to Nancy and to the family. Jerome and Maxine Belson
        DeMATTEIS-Frederick. The New York area has lost a true and generous leader and ''builder'' of our community. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family, friends & all who share this loss. Sandy Schlesinger, Tom Gannon of Kaye Scholer LLP
        DeMATTEIS-Fred. You were a friend and a mentor. Your hugs were warm and sincere. We are proud to have been a part of your beautiful life. Our condolences to Nancy and the entire family. Suzan and Jerry Kremer
        DeMATTEIS - Frederick. We mourn the passing of our dear friend. Our thoughts are with his family. The Partners of Serko & Simon, LLP
        DeMATTEIS-Fred. We have lost our dear friend, a man whose love, kindness and strength was an inspiration to everyone he touched. We will miss you. Meryl and Ron
      