
        ELLENBOGEN-Joan L., 59, on October 23, 2001. She is survived by her loving sister, Leni Goodman, and her adoring niece, Cache, and her caring circle of close friends. Services Thursday, October 25, 12noon at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave at 65 St.
        ELLENBOGEN-Joan. The Officers, Directors and Members of the Women's Bar Association of the State of New York mourn the loss of their Founder, Joan L. Ellenbogen. Joan was the visionary who established WBASNY through sheer force of personality and perseverance. Joan was in the forefront of advancing the cause of women and women attorneys from the date she left NYU Law School. She was a tireless champion who was successful in forging together a statewide bar association dedicated to the advancement of women, in supporting the promotion of women in our judicial system and in giving voice to countless women through her long and extensive practice in the field of matrimonial law. We will miss her guidance, leadership, and support. Her influence, love and inspiration will remain with us always. Our heartfelt sympathy to her sister Leni Goodman, her niece Cache and her business partner Marcia C. Goldstein. Martha E. Gifford, President
        ELLENBOGEN-Joan L. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member Joan L. Ellenbogen. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        ELLENBOGEN-Joan L., Esquire, The Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department, mark with sorrow the passing of a long time member of the Departmental Disciplinary Committee. She served the court with distinction. Her dedication and wisdom will serve as her legacy. Joseph P. Sullivan, Presiding Justice
        ELLENBOGEN-Joan. To Joan, my most loyal friend and trusted colleague. I am diminished by your passing and truly bereft in your absence. Yet there is joy in having laughed with you, celebrated with you and shared life's joys, sorrows and ordinary moments together. Your loving friendship can never be replaced. I miss you already. Lenore
        ELLENBOGEN-Joan. The New York Women's Bar Association mourns the loss of Joan Ellenbogen, a guiding light of our organization. Our heartfelt condolences to Joan's sister, Leni Goodman, her niece, Cache, and her law partner, Marcia Goldstein. Phyllis S. Koffman, President
        ELLENBOGEN-Joan L., 59. To a courageous and unique special person, friend and attorney. You had a helluva run and there is no one quite like you. Let all who knew you commemorate and celebrate your life. Marcia C. Goldstein
      