
        ANDRUCKI-Jean. Born in New York Hospital on October 1, 1957. She grew up and attended school in Smithtown, New York. She was in the first class to attend Smithtown High School West, where she played three sports. She was in the first graduating class and was awarded the scholar athlete award and most valuable female athlete. While a student at Smithtown High School she and her dear friend, Kathy Hanlon, chaperoned dances for the Junior League for developmentally disabled citizens for three years. She also volunteered as a camp counselor at Camp Wilton in New York State. As a young woman, Jean led a group of adults and children who, for several years, sang in the local nursing home during the holidays. She also brought out children from the city to spend ''weekends in the country'' at Smithtown. Jean travelled extensively visiting Africa twice to view the natural beauty and the wildlife. She was greatly concerned about the environment and found her joy in the outdoors camping, kayaking, and bicycling. As an adult, Jean completed four triathalons and although girls could not play soccer when she attended high school, she did manage, as a woman, to join the Bergen Kickers and later to play with Leitrim's team in the upper Bronx. Jean attended Stony Brook University graduating in 1980 from an accelerated program and earning a B.A. in political science and an M.S. in Urban Policy Sciences. In 1981 she completed an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering. Jean was initiated into Pi Sigma Alpha, the national Political Science honor society. Jean joined the Port Authority in April 1982. In December '83 she was assigned to the Fire Safety Section. In '85 she was elected into the Society of Fire Protection Engineers. She advanced through the P.A. and was presently the Operations Manager for Risk Management in the Treasury Dept. Jean was the kind of aunt every kid wished for. She loved her nephews dearly and certainly did dote on them. They are George and Michael Andrucki and Michael Devlin Izzo. We truly looked forward to her weekends at home in her beloved Smithtown; she never really became a full fledged ''city girl.'' We, her family, will grieve endlessly for her. Our lives and the lives of all her many friends will never be the same with the loss of her beautiful spirit and her compassionate, loving heart. The world will be a poorer place having lost this gentle and kind woman. Services for Jean will be held in Hoboken at Frank Sinatra park on Friday, October 5 at 6 P.M. and in Smithtown, St. Patricks Church, Main Street, 10:30 mass on October 11. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent to The Nature Conservancy, 4245 North Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA. 22203-1606.
      