
        VAERST-Ralph. Died on October 11, 2001. Services will be held at 11:00AM on Thursday, October 18th, 2001 at the Colonial Mortuary of Crosby-N. Gray & Co., Burlingame. Mr. Vaerst was born in Surabaya, Indonesia on November 21, 1927, the only child of Dr. Louis and Mrs. Sarah Vaerst. In 1946 he moved to Holland to finish his engineering studies at the University of Amsterdam. In 1958 he immigrated to the United States and settled in Boston 5 years as an engineer for High Voltage Engineering Corp., and manufactured large particle accelerators where he also worked with Niels Bohr in Denmark. In 1962 he married Bodil Orbell, the daughter of Frans Orbell, the Mayor of a Stockholm suburb. That year they moved to Palo Alto where he was one of the initial employees of Stanford Linear Accelerator (SLAC) and worked there until 1968. In 1970 he was a founder of Ion Equipment Corp. Ion was one of the first companies that Larry Sonsini took public in 1971. In 1971 Ralph Vaerst also was given credit for coining the phrase ''Silicon Valley.'' Since then he founded or invested in a variety of companies. With some European partners he was a principal and Director of NMS-France, a company that produced electronic displays for the European auto industry which was sold to TRW in 1992. He was also a principal and President of NMS-Switzerland, a company that produced most of the electronic modules for the Swiss watch industry. NMS-Switzerland was sold to a Swiss holding company in 1997. Until his recent death, he has been Chairman of the Board of Borg Instrument, a $200 million company in Germany that produces electronic systems and telematics for the European auto industry. For the past twenty years he lived simultaneously in Atherton and Hillsborough, California, Bastad, Sweden and Paris, France. He is survived by his wife Bodil, his children Sunna Vaerst, Peter Vaerst, and Mary Ann May and six grandchildren. Private interment Skylawn Memorial Park, San Mateo. Viewing will be held at the Mortuary Chapel between the hours of 6:00 and 9:00PM on Wednesday evening.
      