
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Seymour Milstein, a distinguished leader in the Jewish community. As one of New York's most prominent real estate developers, he was deeply admired for his extraordinary leadership in business and philanthropy. His professional success was matched only by his compassionate concern for others. Through his exceptional devotion to UJA-Federation and its beneficiary agencies, he improved medical, educational, and cultural services for thousands of people in our community. His significant contributions to the Jewish community, and to humanitarian causes throughout New York City, will be felt for generations to come. As a beloved father and husband, Mr. Milstein's philanthropic concerns live on in the continuing efforts of his son, Philip, who is co-chair of UJA-Federation's Capital Gifts and Special Initiatives and past president of the 92nd Street YM-YWHA, and in the generous commitment of the entire Milstein family. We extend our deepest sympathies to Philip; to Mr. Milstein's beloved wife, Vivian; to his daughter, Constance; and to the entire Milstein family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The Medical Board of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and benefactor Seymour Milstein. As a Trustee of The Presbyterian Hospital, and as Chairman of the Board of Trustees from 1989 to 1996, he guided the institution's return to fiscal soundness while maintaining its excellence in research and clinical care. A wise counselor, an astute leader, and a donor of unparalleled generosity, he will be remembered as someone who contributed enormously to quality health care for all New Yorkers. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Vivian; his brother, Paul; his sister, Gloria; his son, Philip; his daughter, Constance and to his entire family. Lanny G. Close, M.D., President O. Wayne Isom, M.D., Vice President The Medical Board NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. As a group of friends and Trustees of Zamorano (Escuela Agricola Panamericana) in Honduras, Central America, we mourn the death of our friend. He had a genuine interest in Honduras and had a high regard for the people of Latin America, and for the individual students of this agriculturally oriented institution. Our most sincere condolences to his family. Honorable Kate Semerad Chairman of the Board Mr. George P. Gardner, Trustee
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. We mourn the loss of our beloved brother and uncle. Beyond his professional achievements, Seymour shared with us his love and wisdom. He was a source of quiet strength and dignity. We treasure our memories of a lifetime together and deeply mourn his loss even as we celebrate his life. Gloria, Louis & Jan Flanzer
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. The family of Paul Milstein mourns the loss of Seymour Milstein, beloved brother of Paul and Irma. Uncle of Roslyn and Jerry, Howard and Abby, Barbara and David, Edward and Robin. We will always cherish the happy times we shared and the many years together.
        MILSTEIN-Seymour. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague of many years. Our sincerest condolences to Vivian, Philip, Constance, and the entire Milstein and Flanzer families. The Weiler and Arnow Families
      