
        WEXNER-Bella. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors & Overseers, Faculty, Administration and Students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, record with profound sorrow the death of Bella Wexner, beloved mother of Leslie, Abigail and Susan Wexner. Her philanthropy & devotion to Jewish continuity was evident in her generosity to her own community of Columbus, throughout America and in Israel. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, President Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritis Mr. Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
        WEXNER-Bella. Founder of The Limited and affiliated companies and the Wexner Foundation. Dearly beloved mother of Susan Wexner of New York, dear friends, and significant and generous supporters and donors to many important causes in the U.S., in Israel, and throughout the world. Above all, admirable, loving and thoughtful friends alwaysEdith Agus, Dr. Bertrand & Shoshana Agus, Dr. Saul & Marcelle Agus, Stephen & Linda Agus, and the entire Agus family.
        WEXNER-Bella. The Staff, Faculty and entire membership of The Wexner Heritage Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Mrs. Bella Wexner, a devoted philanthropist and the mother of our founder and chairman, Mr. Leslie H. Wexner. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to Leslie, his wife Abigail and their children, Leslie's sister, Susan Wexner, and all Wexner family members and friends. May her soul be bound up in the bond of eternal life. Rabbi Nathan Laufer, President
        WEXNER-Bella. In blessed memory of my beloved friend whose wonderful qualities of sincere friendship, and acts of kindness have inspired all who had the privilege of knowing her. Her acts of Chesed for World Jewry have been demonstrated time and again and will serve as an everlasting legacy. My sincere condolences to her beloved daughter Susan and the other members of the family. Rebbitzen Frances Sacks
        WEXNER-Bella. The LeFrak family extends its deepest condolences to the family of Bella Wexner. A dear neighbor and friend, she will be missed by all who knew her.
      