
        PLOTKIN - Frederick Sheldon, Ph.D. Born May 25, 1937, grew up on the Lower East Side of Manhattan where he studied violin at the Henry Street Settlement House and once played at Carnegie Hall. Considered a child prodigy, he was offered a scholarship to Harvard which was not accepted because his parents felt he was too young. He attended Stuyvesant High School, and then left for France where he soon found work as a journalist for a major Paris newspaper. After returning to the U.S. he received his B.A. magna cum laude in 1961 and M.A. in Mathematics in 1962 from Columbia University. In 1966, he received his Ph.D. in Literature and the History of Ideas from Columbia where he was a recipient of a Ford Foundation Fellowship and President's Fellowship (1964-66). Dr. Plotkin taught at Columbia College and held professorships at SUNY Buffalo and Yeshiva University where he was Director of the Humanities Division. He has published several books on the philosophy of religion, including Faith and Reason, and Judaism and Tragic Theology which won the Best Book in America Philosophy and Religion Award from the American Philosophical Society in 1974 and from the American Library Association the same year. Dr. Plotkin is also the author of the Milton study, Inward Jerusalem, which explores the philosophic activity of Paradise Lost. He was for several years a contributor to the Encyclopedia Britannica, and for a number of years wrote book, art and film reviews for a variety of national magazines, including Commentary, Film Quarterly and Musical America. One of the last of the ''great romantics,'' he has had numerous poems published in the Minnesota Review, the Cimarron Review, and North American Review, among others. In the early 1960s he was one of three founders of Meridian Books, the first quality paper-back publishing company in America and he served as the firm's editor until it was sold. In 1980 Dr. Plotkin conceived his brainchild, Comtex Scientific Corporation, one of the first to put research data online to telecommunications networks, a company which he took public in 1981. Though ill since his retirement from both the academic and business worlds, he continued to write until he died. He is survived by his beloved wife Kathy Lyles Plotkin, of New York City (also a writer) and his beloved son Avi of Haines, Alaska, his child from a previous marriage. Fred was known as ''Shel'' to his family and ''Shepsel'' (Yiddish for ''little lamb'') by his wife. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue at 76th Street on November 28, 2001 at 11:30 am. Burial following will be in the family plot at Riverside Cemetery in Saddlebrook, New Jersey.
      