
        LITTLEFIELD-Edmund Wattis. Prominent business executive, civic leader and philanthropist, died on October 27 of lung cancer in Burlingame, California, at the age of 87. He was born in Ogden, Utah on April 16, 1914. He graduated with great distinction from Stanford University in 1936, a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and earned his MBA from Stanford in 1938. During World War II he served as an officer in the U.S. Navy and with the Petroleum Administration for War. Mr. Littlefield joined the Utah Construction Company in 1951 and became General Manager in 1958. In 1976 the company, then known as Utah International Inc., merged with General Electric Company in a deal valued at $2.2 billion, then the largest merger in U.S. corporate history. At that time, Utah had become the most valuable and profitable of all mining companies headquartered in the United States. Mr. Littlefield served on numerous corporate boards of directors including Bechtel Investment Company, Birmingham Steel, Chrysler Corporation, Del Monte Corporation, Federated Department Stores, First Security Corporation, FMC Gold, W.P. Fuller Co., General Electric Company, Hewlett Packard Company, Industrial Indemnity, Santa Fe Southern Pacific, Utah International, and Wells Fargo Company. He also served on the Bechtel Board of Senior Counselors. The Management Center at the Stanford Graduate School of Business bears his name. He also served as a Stanford University trustee, a regent of the University of San Francisco, a trustee of the Cate School, president and director of the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, director of the California State Chamber of Commerce and the San Francisco Symphony. He was Chairman of the prestigious Business Council, of SRI International, and of the Beavers. He was the recipient of many awards during his lifetime, among them, the Ernest C. Arbuckle Award from the Stanford Graduate School of Business, and the 1977 Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews. Mr. Littlefield was an avid hunter, fisher and golfer. He was a popular member of the Bohemian Club and many other clubs in California. He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Jeannik; three children, Edmund Jr. of Arlington, Washington, Jacques of Portola Valley, California, and Denise Sobel & her husband Norman Keller of New York City; and six grandchildren, David, Scott, Keith, Naomi, Allison and Heather. A memorial service will be held on Friday, November 9 at 3:00 PM at the Stanford University Memorial Church with a reception to follow at the Arrillaga Alumni Center on campus. Guests are advised to park at Galvez Field (Campus Drive at Galvez Street). Shuttle service will be provided. In lieu of flowers the family requests gifts to Stanford University, Office of Development-Memorial Gifts, 326 Galvez Street, Stanford, CA. 94305-6105; or Ducks Unlimited Inc., 3074 Gold Canal Drive, Rancho Cordova, CA 95670-6116; or a charity of your choice.
      