
        FAJNSOD-Eleanore. We mourn her passing on November 13, 2001, after a tenacious battle against pancreatic cancer. Elly was born December 26, 1938, in Brooklyn, daughter of Irving and Rae (Widomlansky) Wilkes, and graduated Thomas Jefferson H.S. While living in the Glenwood Projects, she worked at South Shore H.S., lastly as a paraprofessional. After raising a family, she attended Brooklyn College at nights for 14 years, receiving her B.A. in 1987. This was followed by a Masters Degree and 30 credits above. She then taught 2nd grade at P.S. 251, in the Flatlands area, continuing to teach until the very end. As a master teacher, she enriched the lives of her students with numerous extracurricular projects. Her classroom library of hundreds of books, developed with her own funds, is being donated to P.S. 251. Active in various organizations, Elly enjoyed spending summers with her family in the Hamptons, attending concerts, and traveling; she was a member of Young Israel of Bedford Bay synagogue. Predeceased by her brother Harvey, whom she adored and cared for in his final illness, Elly leaves behind Leon, her husband of 43 years; Robert (and Adeline) Wilkes, brother; Harriet (and Maurice) Wittenberg, sister; Lori (and Aaron) Maslow and Miriam (and Michael) Steinberg, children; Lina (and Michael) Newman, her cousin whom she deemed a sister; nieces and nephews. An outstanding and devoted grandmother, Elly is also survived by her jewels (the term she always used): Rachel (age 10), Simcha (8), and Dov (6) Maslow, and Adina (11) and Benjamin (7) Steinberg. Elly was buried November 15, at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY. The family will be sitting shiva until this Wednesday morning at 2649 E. 65 St., in Mill Basin. A loving biography of Elly was written by Adina earlier this year, and copies will be available upon request to the family. ''An accomplished woman, who can find? Far beyond pearls is her value. ... Her mouth is opened with wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue.'' Proverbs 31:10, 26.
      