
        YOUNGKEN-Heber W., Jr., 88. An internationally known educator, researcher, and university administrator, died October 22 at his home in Peace Dale, RI. He was the son of noted pharmacognocist Heber Wilkinson Youngken and Clara Eastman Youngken. Youngken devoted his life's work to the field of pharmacognosy and natural products chemisty. He was the author and co-author of over 180 publications dealing with the sources, chemistry, and pharmacological characteristics of plants. He was the author of ''Pharmacognosy,'' J.B. Lippincott, PA, 1951, second ed. 1965, a textbook, (with R. Pratt), and ''Organic Chemistry in Pharmacy,'' J.B. Lippincott, PA, 1949 (with Wilson, et al), among other texts. His writings appeared in numerous national journals including the ''Journal of Natural Products'' and the ''Herbalist.'' He also contributed to research findings in the field of drugs derived from marine organisms. Youngken was the recipient of numerous awards, including the American Pharmaceutical Association Newcomb Award in Pharmacognosy, and achievement awards from the American Society of Pharmacognosy. Youngken served on review councils of the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation, and was a principal researcher of numerous grants for studies in the field of natural products. He was a member of the revision committees of the ''United States Pharmacopeia'' and the ''National Formulary'', and frequent consultant to members of the drug industry on botanical drugs. Youngken came to Rhode Island in 1956 as the dean to establish, organize and develop the University of Rhode Island College of Pharmacy after 15 years in the pharmacy faculty at the University of Washington in Seattle. Under Youngken's leadership the URI pharmacy college grew in teaching, research, and service from 9 faculty and 135 students to 33 full term and 18 part time faculty with more than 600 undergraduate and graduate students at his retirement in 1981. Its faculty and graduates have gained worldwide recognition for excellence in pharmacy research and the related health sciences. He was a visiting professor at the University of London, 1970 and the University of Cairo, Egypt, 1977, '79, '81, and '85. Nationally prominent in pharmaceutical education and research, Youngken chaired or served on various committees representing the American Pharmaceutical Association (APhA), the American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy (AACP), the Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences, the American Society of Pharmacognosy (former president), the Society of Economic Botany, and many others. In 1953 he published one of the first papers in the United States to promote the concept of clinical pharmacy and the student externship programs. In 1958, he founded the Pharmacy Clinic at URI for continuing pharmacy education, now dedicated in his name. In 1994, the medicinal plant garden at the University of Rhode Island was dedicated to Youngken. A new faculty chair at URI, known as the OmarYoungken Distinguished Chair in Natural Product Chemistry, was created in his honor in 2001. Youngken served in the US Navy during World War II in North Atlantic convoy escort duty, later achieving the rank of Captain in the US Navy Reserve. He held degrees from Bucknell University (AB), the Massachusetts College of Pharmacy (BS), and the University of Minnesota (MS, PhD). In 1982 he received an Honorary DSc from the University of Rhode Island. Youngken is survived by his wife Daphne Goodwin Youngken, two sons, John Ronald Youngken of New York City and Richard Charles Youngken of Wakefield, RI, and two granddaughters, Kelly Goodwin Youngken of Arlington, VA, and Abigail Bouldin Youngken of Greensboro, NC. A memorial service will be held at St. Augustine's Church in Kingston, RI at 3:00 P.M., Monday, November 19th.
      