
        BERKHEIMER-George A. Dr. Of Harrisburg, PA, New York City and Nantucket, MA, died on November 22, 2001, at his home in Manhattan of heart failure after a long illness. He was 89. The son of Dr. George C. and Bess Fisher Berkheimer, he was born in Windber, PA, graduated from Mercersberg Academy and Princeton University. In 1938 he graduated from the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in Baltimore and by 1942 was completing his residency in orthopedic surgery when he left to serve in the U.S. Army, volunteering to join a group of his Hopkins medical colleagues, the 118th General Hospital, heading for duty in the Pacific Theater of World War II. The group, headquartered primarily in Sydney, Australia, eventually moved north, and Dr. Berkheimer, by 1946 a lieutenant colonel, was in Leyte when he was discharged to go home. Soon after he joined the medical staff of Harrisburg Hospital and by 1950 had become its Chief of Orthopedicsthereby embarking on his 35 year career as a surgeon and teacher, the latter a commitment that he cherished increasingly as the years passed. ''A splendid man, industrious, conscientious and dedicated,'' the Hospital's Board termed him in a tribute given when he retired from active practice in 1980. He was also a Fellow of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons and a Diplomate of the American Board of Orthopedics. To his friends and family, he was a gentle man with a wonderful sense of humor and a devoted companion. A member of Rolling Rock Club in Ligonier, PA, he also belonged to the Nassau Club in Princeton and The Union Club of New York City. On Nantucket Island, he was a member of The Nantucket Yacht Club, the Sankaty Head Golf Club and The Wharf Rat Club. Dr. Berkheimer is survived by his wife of 21 years, Margaret Yates Berkheimer. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, November 29th at 11A.M. in the East Hall of St. James Episcopal Church at Madison Avenue and 71st Street, in New York, entry through the 71st Street door. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to The Nantucket Conservation Foundation, 118 Cliff Rd., Nantucket, MA 02554, or the Nantucket Cottage Hospital, 57 Prospect Street, Nantucket, MA 02554.
      