
        KORNREICH-JoAnne. Beloved wife of Morton, devoted mother of James and Meredith, Thomas and Barbara, and Nancy and Robert Rieger, adored and adoring grandmother of Todd, Jennifer, Maggie, Caroline, Adam, Zachary, Molly, and Alex, and dear friend of Larcenia. Services Friday 11:30 A.M. at Temple Emanu-El, 2125 Westchester Avenue East, Rye, New York. For information call: Plaza Jewish Community Chapel at 1-800-227-3974.
        KORNREICH-JoAnne. Loving sister-in-law of Susanne and Matthew Kornreich, devoted aunt to Kathy and Sam Weinberg and Bill Kornreich. Her beauty, grace and dignity touched the lives of all who knew her. She will forever be in our hearts.
        KORNREICH-Jo Anne. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Jo Anne Kornreich, a longtime friend to the Jewish community and beloved wife of Morton Kornreich. Mort, a past president and chairman of the board of UJA-Federation of New York, has been an extremely active and prominent figure in Jewish communal leadership. Throughout their 50-year marriage, Jo Anne was a partner and supporter of Mort's extensive philanthropic commitments. Mort, in addition to serving UJA-Federation, was national chairman of UJA and an instrumental leader of Jewish organizations worldwide. He was deeply involved in helping Israel rebuild following the Yom Kippur War. Jo Anne and Mort's children proudly continue their parents' legacy to the Jewish community. We are extremely fortunate to have them as supporters and friends. We send our deepest sympathies to Mort; to their children Jim and Meredith Kornreich, Tom & Barbara Kornreich, and Nancy & Rob Rieger; to their grandchildren Todd, Jennifer, Maggie, Zachary, Molly, Alex, Caroline, and Adam; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        KORNREICH-JoAnne. The Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities mourn the passing of JoAnne Kornreich, beloved wife of Mort Kornreich, a former National Chairman of United Jewish Appeal & Past-President & Chairman of the Board of UJA-Federation of New York. JoAnne Kornreich was a longtime friend of the Jewish community and a partner and supporter with her husband of a strong philanthropic commitment that touched countless lives the world over through UJA, the American Jewish Committee, American Jewish Congress, and much more. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mort, to his children Jim and Meredith Kornreich, Tom and Barbara Kornreich, Nancy and Rob Rieger, & to grandchildren Todd, Jennifer, Maggie, Zachary, Mollie, Alex, Caroline, and Adam. Charles R. Bronfman Chairman of the Board Joel D. Tauber Chairman, Executive Committee Stephen H. Hoffman Chief Executive Officer
        KORNREICH-JoAnne. The partners, management and staff of The Kornreich NIA Organization offer our condolences to our cochairman, Morton Kornreich on the passing of his beloved wife. Our deepest sympathy to our partners Jim and his wife Meredith, Tom and his wife Barbara and to their sister Nancy Rieger and her husband Rob on the loss of their devoted mother. Loving sister-inlaw to our co-chairman Matthew Kornreich and his wife Suzanne. Beloved aunt of our partner William Kornreich and devoted grandmother of eight.
        KORNREICH-JoAnne. The Officers and Board of Directors of the America-Israel Friendship League extend our sincere condolences and sympathy to our friend and colleague, Morton A. Kornreich, on the passing of his beloved wife, JoAnne. Mortimer B. Zuckerman, President Kenneth J. Bialkin, Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg Chairman of the Exec. Committee Ilana Artman Executive Vice-President
        KORNREICH-JoAnne. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, JoAnne Kornreich, and extend our sincerest condolences to her husband, Morton and their family. Robert P. Adler, President Boca Rio Golf Club, Inc.
        KORNREICH-JoAnne. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member JoAnne Kornreich. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband Morton and her entire family. Jim Speiser, President Monty Davis, Secretary Brae Burn Country Club
      