
        BARRETT-William L. On November 23, 2001, at age 66. Former Vice President of D.L. Elliman & Co. and later President of William L. Barrett, Real Estate Corp. Loving father of Jason, Eleanor, and grandfather of Elizabeth, Lauren and Danielle. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Monday and Tuesday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM, with services Wednesday, 9:30 AM. Interment to follow at Cemetery of The Gate of Heaven. Contributions in his memory may be made to the American Heart Assocation, Heritage Affiliate, 2550 US Highway 1, New Brunswick, NJ 08902.
        BARRETT-William L. Calling Billy ''direct'' would be a great understatement. He was a sharp observer of the human condition and never hesitated to share his views with those who would listen. Billy was also a great friend. Whether he was trying to help a friend in need, or teach something to a friend he thought needed teaching, Billy undertook the task with clarity and enthusiasm. Billy was also very proud of Jason and Eleanor and never missed an opportunity to recount the latest developments in their lives. We've lost one from the old school. I'll miss you pal. Carl F. Schwartz
        BARRETT-William L. While Bill always reminded his listeners that he was a product of Jesuit schooling, he grew into being the Rabbi to many giants in the real estate industry who considered Bill a true friend, advisor and mentor, not just for the immediate but of lifelong duration. He was charitable to many causes, attending few functions in person, but always by contributions and sharing. He never said no. May his memory be a consolation to his family, friends, clients, and all who had the privilege of knowing this gentle gentleman. Agins, Siegel & Reiner, LLP Solomon J. Freedman
        BARRETT-William L. We mourn the loss of our client and friend. Bill was a man of great integrity and insight. We were proud to be part of his business family for twenty years. Our deepest sympathies to Jason, Eleanor, the grandchildren and Bill's many friends. Herrick, Feinstein LLP
      