
        RIGG-Elizabeth Schultz. A 25 year resident of Greenwich, CT, died Friday, November 23, at Greenwich Hospital, after a brief illness. The cause of death was pulmonary fibrosis. She was born in NYC on June 9, 1921, the daughter of the late William Lightfoot and Mabel LaVie Schultz. Her father was the founder and longtime CEO of Shulton, Inc, the makers of Old Spice. She was raised near Morristown, NJ, and attended Miss Beard's School there. She studied at the Juilliard School and graduated with a concentration in music from Sarah Lawrence College in 1943. An accomplished pianist, she became a professional cabaret singer against strenuous family opposition. Adopting Suzanne Gilbert as her stage name, she performed at the Stage Door Canteen, the American Theater Wing and the Biltmore Hotel, among other popular World War II night spots. A member of the Belle Haven Club and the Greenwich Country Club, Mrs. Rigg was well known in Greenwich as a philanthropist to both public and private causes. Throughout her life she was a serious student of both French and Italian, and was a member of the Alliance Francaise in Greenwich. She was an avid traveler, especially to Europe, and an enthusiastic tennis player. Until very recently, she was an active participant in the Fred Astaire ballroom dance competitions, where she won numerous first place awards. Mrs. Rigg was descended from Francis Lightfoot Lee, a signer of the Declaration of Independence from Virginia. Her brother, George L. Schultz, predeceased her. She is survived by three sons, William L.S. Rigg of Williamsburg, VA, Geoffrey B. Rigg of Greenwich, and Douglas G. Rigg of Mill Valley, CA. A memorial service will be held on Friday, November 30, at 11 AM, at Christ Church, 254 East Putnam Avenue, Greenwich. At Mrs. Rigg's request, those attending should wear joyful colors. In lieu of flowers, gifts may be made to the Betty Schultz Rigg Scholarship Fund, Sarah Lawrence College, One Mead Way, Bronxville, NY 10708.
      