
        McCOOEY-Robert H. Of Rye, NY, and Sea Island, GA, on Friday, November 16, 2001. Born Brooklyn, NY, October 14, 1930, to Herbert and Elizabeth (Larney) McCooey. Grandson of the late John H. McCooey, political leader of Brooklyn for 25 years. Beloved husband of Mary Catherine (Joyce), devoted father of Robert H., Jr. (Kristina Grimm McCooey), Mark, Michael, Timothy, Mary Catherine and Kevin, and grandfather of Robert III, Christopher, Elizabeth, Matthew and Thomas McCooey. Also survived by three brothers: his twin, Richard of Washington, DC, Bert of Westhampton Beach, NY, and John of New York City. He attended Brooklyn Prep and graduated form Iona Preparatory School and the College of the Holy Cross ('52). He served as Lieutenant J.G. in the U.S Navy from 1952 to 1954. His business career began on Wall Street as an independent broker and later as a specialist at Henderson Brothers. In 1988 he, with his sons and daughter, founded The Griswold Company, which has become one of the largest independent brokerage firms on the New York Stock Exchange. He has been a member of the NYSE for 46 years. His dedication to faith and family was lived through his service to many charitable organizations. At the time of his death, he was a Board member of Lincoln Hall, Lincolndale, NY; the New York Foundling Hospital, NYC; St. Vincent's Hospital-Westchester; Weston Jesuit School of Theology, Cambridge, MA; Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, Bronx, NY; Morality in Media, New York City;, and Graymoor, Garrison, NY. He served as Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Iona Preparatory School, New Rochelle, NY; Catholic Big Brothers, New York, NY; Mercy College, Dobbs Ferry, NY; and Our Lady of Mercy Hospital Fund. He was a past Board member of the Boy Scouts of New York, the Cerebral Palsy Association (Westchester), Catholic Youth Organization, St. Agnes Hospital, White Plains, NY, College of New Rochelle and AmeriCares, New Canaan, CT. He was an active meber in Catholic organizations, serving as Chancellor of the Order of Malta. He was a member of the Knights of the Holy Sepulchre and the Cardinal's Committee of the Laity of the Archdiocese of New York. He was also a current Trustee of Resurrection Church, Rye, NY, and Our Lady of Victory Church in the financial district, and served as a member of the Finance Committee for both parishes. The family will receive visitors on Sunday, November 18, from 5 to 8 PM, and Monday, November 19, from 3 to 6 PM, at Resurrection Church, 910 Boston Post Road, Rye, NY. Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at Resurrection Church on Monday, November 19, at 6 PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Robert H. McCooey Memorial Cancer Research Fund, New York Hospital, 525 East 68th St., NY, NY 10021, attn: Peggy Maher.
      