
        WILLIAMS-Dolores Clarke. A memorial service will be held for Dolores Clarke Williams (''Dee'') at The Cathedral of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue at 112th Street, on December 17, 2001 at 12:00 Noon. She passed away on Wednesday, November 14 at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn, following surgery to repair a broken hip. Mrs. Williams was born in Panama to Audrey and Samuel Clarke. She came to the United States as a child and attended high school and college (New York University) in New York City. She was married to Michael D. Williams, then a medical resident, on March 12, 1944. The couple had two children (Saundra and Steven) and lived together, happily, until Dr. Williams' death in 1989. Dolores Williams took an active role in her children's educations and social lives. She served as President of The Metropolitan Chapter of Jack & Jill, as well as President of the Parent Teacher Association of The Columbia Grammar School, where her son was a student. Having remained at home to shepherd her children through their pre-college years, Mrs. Williams went on to teach at The Modern School, an independent school in Harlem. Following her retirement, she continued teaching as a volunteer tutor at P.S. 180 in Manhattan and in the after school program of The Church of the Masters. In keeping with her motto, ''Do something for somebody,'' Mrs. Williams was deeply committed to the concept of volunteerism and to her involvement in civic and charitable projects. She was an enthusiastic volunteer for The Harlem School of the Arts. Having served on the Board of the institution, she later taught a class there in African History and Culture. She was also a docent at the Studio Museum in Harlem. In the early 1970's she served as President of the Manhattan, Bronx, Westchester Women's Auxiliary to the National Medical Association. Under her leadership, the New York Auxiliary hosted the 1973 NMA Convention, sponsored seminars focused on issues of black women's health and raised a substantial fund for financially disadvantaged African American medical students. Mrs. Williams played a leadership role in founding The Group, a fundraising organization which has contributed impressive sums to not-forprofit institutions, including The United Negro College Fund and The Harlem School of the Arts. Up until the time of her death, Dee remained active in several social organizations, including the Alumni Chapter of the Metropolitan Chapter of Jack and Jill and the New York Hillbillies. She enjoyed playing bridge, loved music and dancing, summers in Sag Harbor, entertaining at home and, especially, spending time with her grandchildren. Her two children, Saundra Williams-Cornwell and Steven Williams, their spouses Don Cornwell and Barbara Evans Williams, her two beloved grandchildren, Samantha Cornwell and Michael Evan Williams, her stepgrandson, K. Don Cornwell, as well as many good friends, survive Dolores Williams.
      