
        BUCCA-Ronald, 47. FDNY, Fire Marshal. He responded to the call of duty at the World Trade Center, September 11, 2001. Best friend and husband to Eve, proud father of Jessica and Ronald, beloved son of Astrid and Joseph, devoted brother of Alfred and Robert. Ron was a 23-year veteran of the FDNY and had served with Engine 95, Ladder 2, the Fitness Unit, Rescue 1, the FDNY Terrorist Task Force, and was promoted to Fire Marshal in 1992. While a member of Rescue 1, in an attempt to rescue a brother firefighter, he fell five stories, severely injuring himself. Although many believed his career was over, he returned to full duty within a year. The men at Rescue 1 nicknamed him ''The Flying Fireman.'' He had served in the military for 29 years and was recently promoted to Warrant Officer in the US Army Reserve. He spent two years active duty with the 101st Airborne Division. Most of his career was with the 11th Special Forces Group and the Defense Intelligence Agency as a Military Intelligence Analyst. He was a past President of Chapter 66 Special Forces Association and a member of the American Legion. He was a Licensed Practical Nurse and held an Associate Degree in OSHA and Fire Science from John Jay College and a Bachelor of Science in Public Safety from Mercy College. His hobbies included archaeology, travel, history, and physical fitness. He was a man of many accomplishments and interests. He was an avid historian and was assisting the Fire Museum in a Zoave exhibit. He had lifelong interests in Boy Scouting and woodsmanship, but what he truly enjoyed was spending time with his family and friends. We will miss his insatiable curiosity, mischievous humor, adventurous spirit, and commitment to doing the right thing. He touched many lives and hearts and led by example. When facing the ultimate challenge, he stood fast & did his duty. He will be greatly missed and loved. The family will receive friends at Westchester Funeral Home, Inc., Eastchester, NY, Thursday and Friday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Service will be held Saturday, November 10, 2001 at Concordia College Student Chapel at 11 AM. Interment to follow at Gate of Heaven Cemetery, Hawthorne. In lieu of flowers, the family would appreciate Memorial Donations to the Fire Marshal Ron Bucca Memorial Fund C/O the law office of Carro, Velez, Carro, & Mitchell, LLP, 475 Park Avenue South, New York, New York 10016.
      