
        GLASCOE-Keith Alexander. A firefighter for three and-a-half years with the Fire Department of New York Ladder Company 21, was tragically lost with that Company's entire squad in the horrific collapse of the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. He was 38. Born in San Francisco, CA, Mr. Glascoe was known for his 30-year football career beginning as an eight year old child. At Midwood High School in Brooklyn, NY he played offensive tackle, defensive end and kicker. He played football at Springfield College in Springfield, MA for two years, then transferred to Delaware State College in Dover, DE. Mr. Glascoe helped win several championships at Midwood and Delaware State. He graduated from Delaware State with a Bachelor in Business Administration. Following graduation, he participated in the New York Jets football training camp, but was released when he sustained serious shoulder and neck injuries. He then played American football in Northern Italy. Returning from Italy, he worked at the New York City Children's Welfare Agency (CWA) to help improve the plight of inner-city children. Mr. Glascoe also pursued an acting career, appearing in television commercials, print advertisements, television programs (''America's Most Wanted'', ''One Life to Live'', ''100 Centre Street''), and the made-for-TV movie, ''Assault on Devil's Island''. The highlight of his acting career was his role as ''Benny'' in the Luc Bessondirected film, ''The Professional'', which also starred Gary Oldman. Mr. Glascoe was married in 1996 to Veronica Squef and moved briefly to live in South Beach, FL. Mr. Glascoe is survived by his wife Veronica who is expecting their third child in April 2002; two young sons, Nolan Sebastian and Owen Alexander; his parents Benjamin Alexander and Gloria Glascoe; sister and brother-in-law Lee and Calvert Wright; grandmother Addie Oliver; uncles Victor M. Oliver and Sinclair Acey; great uncles Stanford Lawson, Woodrow Guill and great-aunt Jerusha Bennet; a nephew, four nieces and a host of cousins & other relatives. Mother & father-in-law Regina & Jacinto Squef; brother-in-law Gustavo Adrian Squef; sisters-in-law Kristen and Marcela, and a large circle of friends including Pedro Barry, Patrick Fahey, Chris Jones and his FDNY colleagues also survive him. Memorial Mass Saturday, 12 Noon on November 17, 2001 at Transfiguration Roman Catholic Church, 29 Mott Street, New York, New York 10013.
      