
        WEXNER-Bella C. The Officers and Board of the Columbus Jewish Foundation mourn the passing of Bella Wexner, one of its first philanthropic fund holders. The Bella Wexner Founders Fund generously supported the Foundation's general operations and community-wide grants program. She took special pride in Wexner Heritage Village, a Jewish elder care facility, where she regularly visited the residents and tended to their personal needs. Among the beneficiaries of her Foundation funds were Columbus Hebrew and Jewish day school educators, and Statewide naturalization programs. A devout member of Agudas Achim Synagogue, children regularly stopped by her seat for sweets and kind words. Her interest in Jewish Family Services, Columbus Torah Academy, Israel Bonds, Hadassah, Chabad, and Columbus Jewish Federation, where she was a major donor for many years, were hallmarks of a beloved community matriarch who honored the Foundation and its partner agencies with her support. May the Wexner family be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Gary B. Robins, President Jackie Jacobs, Executive Director
        WEXNER-Bella. Children's Hospital, Columbus, Ohio, mourns the passing of our friend Bella Wexner. Bella Wexner was a humanitarian in the truest sense of the word. She recognzed the importance of pediatric research and made possible the construction of the Wexner Institute for Pediatric Research at Children's - a gift that has had a tremendous impact on pediatric research and child health worldwide. She also infused this same sense of philanthropy into her children, Susan Wexner and Leslie Wexner. Mrs. Wexner knew that the future of this world is only as strong and as healthy as our children. On behalf of these children who need us now, and those who need us in the future, we remember Bella Wexner for her vision. She realized that a gift directed toward pediatric research was a gift directed to the future for all mankind. Her legacy of caring has benefited countless lives and will continue into perpetuity. For this we are eternally grateful. Thomas N. Hansen Chief Executive Officer Children's Hospital Jon M. Fitzgerald President Children's Hospital Foundation
        WEXNER-Bella. State of Israel Bonds deeply mourns the passing of Bella Cabakoff Wexner, a devoted leader and a passionate supporter of Israel. She was instrumental in the success of the Central Ohio Israel Bonds office, was chair of the Golda Meir Campaign & was honored in 1990 with the prestigious Golda Meir Award. She also served on the National Women's Division Board of Directors. Bella's untiring work for Bonds helped raise millions of dollars in investment capital to build Israel's economy. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Gideon Patt, President & CEO Burton P. Resnick, Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg, National Campaign Chairman Jay Schottenstein, Central Ohio General Chairman Mark Ebner, Central Ohio Campaign Chairman
        WEXNER-Bella. The Officers, Board of Trustees, Staff, and membership, of the Agudas Achim Synagogue, Columbus, Ohio, mourn the passing of Bella Wexner, mother of Leslie Wexner and Susan Wexner. Mrs. Wexner was a dedicated and devoted member of the congregation, who served many years on the Board of Trustees, leading us with her astute observations and business acumen. Her lifelong devotion to her family and her deep, abiding faith were inspiration to us all. Her philanthropic commitment to many local, national and overseas Jewish and non-Jewish causes and institutions was legendary. May the Wexner Family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Laurence G. Ruben, President David Spialter, Vice President Robert A. Shapiro, Chairman of the Board
        WEXNER-Bella. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum deeply mourns the passing of Bella Wexner, whose extraordinary support and deep commitment helped make possible the growth and success of the Museum. A remarkable entrepreneur and a pioneering philanthropist, she was a Founder of the Museum. Her generosity and dedication to preserving and honoring the memory of those who were victims of the Holocaust touched and impacted the lives of countless people, and were a tribute to her leadership and compassion. The Museum extends its deepest condolences to her children, family and friends. Rabbi Irving Greenberg Chairman Ruth B. Mandel, Vice Chair Miles Lerman, Chair Emeritus Sara J. Bloomfield, Director
        WEXNER-Bella C. The entire Wexner Heritage Village family mourns the passing of Bella Wexner. Mrs. Wexner, through her creative vision and enduring support, established the values that underlie the mission of Wexner Heritage Village and its services to the community. Mrs. Wexner's passionate dedication and abiding generosity are the foundation on which Wexner Heritage Village has, and will continue to flourish. May her family sustain only strength and fortitude from memories of her. Theodore G. Fisher, Chairman of the Board Richard S. Lamden, Pres and CEO
        WEXNER-Bella. The Officers, Board of Trustees and Staff of Glimcher Realty Trust express their deep sadness at the passing of Bella Wexner. Mrs. Wexner was a champion for Judaism and a lifelong contributor to the Columbus, Ohio Jewish community, the State of Israel and numerous national and international philanthropies. Her goodness, strength and generosity will long be remembered. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Wexner family. Herbert Glimcher, Chairman and CEO Michael P. Glimcher, President
        WEXNER-Bella. DOROT mourns the loss of a caring philanthropist who promoted the well-being of the needy, young and old, and concretely advanced the cause of Jewish continuity. With her daughter Susan, Bella Wexner brought and will continue to bring seniors joy and companionship through DOROT's Rosh Hashanah Package Delivery. Her memory is a blessing. May her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Joel D. Kazis, President Vivian Fenster Ehrlich, Executive Director
        WEXNER-Bella. Marburn Academy, Columbus, OH honors the life and memory of Bella Wexner who, through her vision and support, was instrumental in the founding and success of the school for the past 20 years. Because of her, thousands of children with learning differences have benefited. We extend our deepest sympathy to the Wexner and Cabakoff families. Earl B. Oremus, Headmaster William Jump, President, Board Of Trustees
        WEXNER-Bella. The Columbus Chapter of Hadassah mourns the passing of Bella Wexner, beloved mother of Susan Wexner and Leslie Wexner. Her philanthropic leadership and devotion to the Jewish people was a beacon of light and inspiration to the members of Hadassah and the Columbus community. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire Wexner family. Columbus Hadassah Marci Carron, President
        WEXNER-Bella. To Leslie, Abigail and the Children. May time soften your sorrow. Our hearts are with you. Rabbi Herbert A. and Francine Friedman
      