
        HEILBRUNN-Robert H. On November 18, 2001, at age 93. Loving and devoted husband of Harriet, married for 67 years. Beloved father of Helaine Lerner and Joan Rechnitz. Adored grandfather of Emily and her husband John Paladino, Adam and Joshua Rechnitz. Great-grandfather of Max Paladino. Father-in-law of Sidney Lerner and Robert Rechnitz. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Tuesday November 20th 11:30AM. Interment to follow at Mt. Carmel Cemetery.
        HEILBRUNN-Robert H. The American Jewish Committee is devastated by the loss of our precious friend, trusted leader and extraordinarily generous benefactor, Robert H. Heilbrunn. Despite a boundless commitment to philanthropy in a lifetime that spanned more than nine decades, Bob left this world with a will to do even more to touch people's lives in meaningful ways. His integrity, intelligence, vision, compassion, humanity and humility made him a remarkable and wonderfully rare individual. Along with his beloved wife of 67 years, Harriet, both members of our Board of Governors, Bob spearheaded AJC's humanitarian assistance program in 1998 to support the agency's major relief efforts around the world and here at home. The Heilbrunns later endowed AJC's Robert and Harriet Heilbrunn Humanitarian Relief Fund to allow the organization to respond quickly and effectively to domestic and international emergencies. His love affair with the Jewish people and, indeed, with all people, inspired him to try and help us all live together in mutual respect and dignity. In 1997, AJC's Harriet and Robert Heilbrunn Institute for International Interreligious Understanding was established. Bob was gratified by the most recent project of that Institute, AJC's publication of ''The Children of Abraham,'' two historic volumes designed to help Jews and Muslims better understand each other's faiths. Bob was determined to make a difference in his life, and, along with his adored partner Harriet, he did. He was an inspiration to anyone who believes that one man can help shape the world and make it a more decent place for us all. His legacy of human kindness is his everlasting tribute. With Bob's passing, we have lost an irreplaceable member of AJC's family and we mourn along with our dear Harriet, who, through her own indomitable spirit, will surely carry on his devotion to tikkun olam-the repair of the world. To his children Helaine and Sidney Lerner and Joan and Robert Rechnitz, his grandchildren, great-grandson and the rest of the grieving family, we send our most heartfelt prayers and condolences during this difficult time. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Exec. Director Jaime Kelstein, Asst. Exec. Dir.
        HEILBRUNN-Robert. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend, Robert Heilbrunn, an esteemed member of The Rockefeller University Council and the University family. Through their friendship and generosity, he and his cherished wife, Harriet, have strengthened a broad spectrum of University initiatives-supporting research on Type 1 diabetes, endowing professorships in cancer research and diabetes research, and expanding and enhancing the clinical research programs of The Rockefeller University Hospital. In grateful recognition for their most recent gift, the Hospital's new outpatient research center, presently under construction, will be named in honor of Robert and Harriet Heilbrunn. Mr. Heilbrunn will be remembered for his keen mind, inexhaustible curiosity, and passionate commitment to the causes that engaged him and benefited from his involvement and steadfast advocacy. In paying tribute to his remarkable life, we want to acknowledge and applaud Robert and Harriet Heilbrunns' extraordinary philanthropic partnership, which has touched and transformed so many of New York's institutions and improved the quality of life for individuals in New York City and beyond. We will greatly miss him, and we extend our heartfelt condolences to Harriet and to his daughters, Helaine Lerner and Joan Rechnitz, and their families. Arnold J. Levine, President and Robert and Harriet Heilbrunn Professor David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman and Life Trustee Richard B. Fisher, Chairman Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman Emeritus Markus Stoffel, Robert and Harriet Heilbrunn Professor Torsten N. Wiesel, President Emeritus
        HEILBRUNN-Robert. The Faculty and Staff of The Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute of Mount Sinai School of Medicine are deeply saddened by the passing of Robert Heilbrunn, a long time outstanding supporter of medical research and health care. An inspirational and dedicated philanthropist, Robert Heilbrunn shared our special commitment to improving the lives of those suffering from cardiovascular disease. His extraordinary generosity included the establishment of the Robert and Harriet Heilbrunn Professorship in Cardiology. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Harriet, to his children Helaine Lerner, and Joan Rechnitz, and to the entire family. Valentin Fuster, M.D., Ph.D. Richard Gorlin, M.D./ Heart Research Foundation Professor of Cardiology, Director, The Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute Jonathan L. Halperin, M.D., Robert and Harriet Heilbrunn Professor of Cardiology, Director Cardiology Clinical Services
        HEILBRUNN - Robert. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital deeply mourn the passing of Robert Heilbrunn, an outstanding philanthropist. Mr. Heilbrunn's personal generosity to Mount Sinai includes the establishment of the Robert and Harriet Heilbrunn Professorship in Cardiology, an important support to improve the quality of patient care. Robert Heilbrunn's commitment to health care was extraordinary, and his munificence will long be remembered. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Harriet Heilbrunn, his daughters, Helaine Lerner, and Joan Rechnitz, and the entire Heilbrunn family. Stephen M. Peck, Chair, The Mount Sinai Medical Center Nathan Kase, Interim President and CEO, The Mount Sinai Medical Center and Interim Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Barry R. Freedman, President and CEO, The Mount Sinai Hospital
        HEILBRUNN-Robert H. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Robert H. Heilbrunn, a cherished friend who earned the admiration of his colleagues and friends for his exceptional generosity to Jewish and humanitarian causes. The Harriet and Robert H. Heilbrunn Endowment Fund, created by Robert and his wife, Harriet, has helped support some of New York's leading human-service agencies, and will continue to make a difference in the lives of those in need. We extend our deepest sympathies to Harriet; to Robert's daughters Helaine Lerner and Joan Rechnitz; to his three grandchildren; to his great-grandchild; and to his entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        HEILBRUNN-Robert H. The American Heart Association, NYC Board of Trustees, volunteers and staff mourn the loss of Robert Heilbrunn, a true friend and generous benefactor of our mission to save lives from heart disease and stroke. In his commitment to our work, Mr. Heilbrunn strongly believed in the long-term value of the investment in medical research. His vision lives on with the designation of our Harriet & Robert Heilbrunn Fellows in Cardiovascular Genetic Research. We extend deepest condolences to his wife, Mrs. Harriet Heilbrunn, his daughters, Mrs. Helaine Lerner, and Mrs. Joan Rechnitz and their families. Richard F. Czaja, Chair Samuel B. Ritter, MD, President Michael L. Weamer, Exec VP
        HEILBRUNN-Robert H. The Rabbis, Officers and Trustees of Congregation Emanu-El record with sorrow the passing of Robert H. Heilbrunn. Mr. Heilbrunn reflected in his heart and soul the most precious values of our faith & the highest ideals of our culture. He walked with nobility and, with his beloved Harriet, he enriched the lives of innumerable human beings through extraordinary caring and generosity. He will be remembered with love & named as a blessing. With his cherished Harriet, their beloved children and family, we give thanks to God for his life, even as we shall forever hold dear his remembrance. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Sr. Rabbi Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        HEILBRUNN-Robert H. The faculty, students, alumni and staff of Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Robert H. Heilbrunn. A man of great generosity and vision, to whom we owe the establishment of a family planning clinic, a true public health model for services; the Harriet and Robert Heilbrunn Department of Population and Family Health and the Harriet and Robert H. Heilbrunn Professorship in Population and Family Health at the School. To his dear wife, Harriet and loving daughters Helaine and Joan and their families, we extend our deepest sympathy. Allan Rosenfield, MD Dean
        HEILBRUNN - Robert. DOROT mourns the loss of a kindred soul who significantly enhanced the lives of the impoverished elderly. With his wife, Harriet, and daughter, Helaine, he supported Kosher Meals for the Homebound and the Homelessness Prevention Program, providing frail, homebound seniors with nourishing, precooked meals and homeless elders with transitional housing and counseling. The Heilbrunns' generosity enabled DOROT to assure this most vulnerable population that they were neither alone nor forgotten. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem, and may his memory ever be a blessing. Joel D. Kazis, President Vivian Fenster Ehrlich, Exec Dir.
        HEILBRUNN-Robert H. The Board of Directors, Officers, Staff, clients and students of The Jewish Guild For The Blind are deeply saddened at the death of Robert H. Heilbrunn, a longtime supporter and generous benefactor. The Guild's School was recently renamed The Harriet and Robert Heilbrunn School at The Guild. Our heartfelt condolences go out to Mrs. Heilbrunn, & all the members of the Heilbrunn family. Joseph S. Mishkin, Chairman Pauline Raiff, Chair-Elect Alan R. Morse, President and CEO
        HEILBRUNN-Robert H. The Board of Trustees of the Central Park Conservancy is deeply saddened by the death of Robert Heilbrunn. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Harriet and the entire family. He will be remembered by hundreds of families today and in the future for his dedication to the playground near Fifth Avenue and East 72nd Street. Earlier this year, the playground was fully restored, thanks to the support of Mr. and Mrs. Heilbrunn. Their gift to the City's children and the legacy they established will remain forever.
        HEILBRUNN-Robert. It was with great sadness that we learned of the passing of our beloved friend Robert Heilbrunn. We wish to acknowledge in a personal way how much his friendship and support meant to us and to the entire Rockefeller University community. His encouragement and generosity during our presidencies helped us to achieve and realize that which might have remained merely dreams. His was a huge heart. To his treasured companion, Harriet, we extend our heartfelt sympathy and send our love. Arnie Levine and Torsten Wiesel
        HEILBRUNN-Robert. The staff of Carol Ann's Library and the Division of Pediatric Oncology at Children's Hospital of New York extend our heartfelt condolences and prayers to the family of Mr. Heilbrunn. We are grateful for Mr. Heilbrunn's generous support of Carol Ann's Library, thereby enabling children with cancer to receive the benefit of complimentary therapies while receiving conventional treatment for their cancer.
        HEILBRUNN-Robert. We will miss your wonderful stories, excellent advice, and weekly dinners together. Our condolences to Harriet and the family. Teddy and Saul Janov
        HEILBRUNN-Robert. We grieve for the loss of a dear friend. We will miss him. Condolences to the Heilbrunn family. Gert and Si Winters
      