
        WEXNER-Bella. The Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities mourn the passing of Bella Wexner, mother of Susan Wexner and Leslie Wexner, a true philanthropic leader whose lifelong devotion to the Jewish people was deeply felt from her own community of Columbus, Ohio, to the people and institutions of Israel. She was a generous supporter of the Columbus Jewish Federation and Columbus Jewish Foundation, and she took particular pride in the establishment of Wexner Heritage Village, one of the nation's premier elder care facilities. Her dedication to Israel included philanthropic support of projects through the Israel Education Fund of UJC and the Jewish Agency. Her deep and abiding commitment to the Jewish community is carried on by her son, Leslie, one of the country's most prominent Jewish philanthropists, who continues to be a major influence on Jewish life around the world. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Wexner family. Charles R. Bronfman, Chairman of the Board Joel D. Tauber, Chairman, Executive Committee Stephen H. Hoffman, Chief Executive Officer
        WEXNER-Bella. Yeshiva University's affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS) records with sorrow the loss of a dear friend and visionary communal leader & YU honorary degree recipient. Together with her daughter, Susan, a distinguished philanthropist in her own right, who is also a YU honorary degree recipient, she made a munificent and historic gift to establish the groundbreaking Bella and Harry Wexner Kollel Elyon and Semikhah Honors Program at RIETS in memory of her husband, Harry, and her parents, Lena and Harry Cabakoff, along with the Annual Lena and Harry Cabakoff Lecture in memory of Harry Wexner. Bella Wexner was a remarkable personality in the business world who later focused her prodigious intelligence on philanthropy in her hometown of Columbus, OH; in New York City, where she lived in recent years; and in Israel. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Susan Wexner and all members of the bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Norman Lamm Rosh HaYeshiva and President, RIETS Julius Berman Chairman, RIETS Board of Trustees
        WEXNER-Bella. Yeshiva University mourns the passing of the beloved mother of Columbus, OH, philanthropist and communal leader Leslie H. Wexner, whose Foundation is a YU Guardian. She & her son, founder and chairman of The Limited, Inc. chain of clothing stores and both YU honorary degree recipients, established The Wexner Foundation and Graduate Fellowship Program dedicated to the recruitment and fostering of future Jewish leaders, which in recent years has elicited participation by students from YU's Wurzweiler School of Social Work and the University's affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. We extend heartfelt condolences to Leslie and Abigail Wexner, their children, and all members of the bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm President, Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren Chairman, YU Board of Trustees Julius Berman Chairman, RIETS Board of Trustees
        WEXNER-Bella. AMIT is deeply grieved by the passing of our generous supporter and dearly beloved mother of Susan Wexner, benefactor of our AMIT needy children in Israel. Bella Wexner's intelligence, business acumen, and charitable heart have made their mark on the Jewish community & the greater American community. She will be sorely missed. Heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Sondra Sokal, President Marvin Leff, Executive Dir
        WEXNER-Bella. The Hillel family mourns the passing of Bella Wexner. Mrs. Wexner's legacy of good works will live on through the lives of her children Susan and Leslie, a member of Hillel's International Board of Governors. May the Wexner famiily be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Edgar M. Bronfman, Chairman Lynn Schusterman, Co-Chair Michael Steinhardt, Co-Chair Richard M. Joel, President
      