
        HALBERG-G. Peter, M.D. The Department of Ophthalmology of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center of New York notes with sadness the death of its esteemed colleague on November 24, 2001. Dr. Halberg served as Attending Ophthalmic Surgeon and Chief of the Glaucoma and Contact Lens Services at this institution from 1974 to 1990. He was widely recognized for his avid pursuit of new technology in the ophthalmic field and served on numerous professional committees nationally and internationally. His energy and enthusiasm were inspiring and his great sense of humor and love of life endeared him to his colleagues, patients and friends. Robert A. D'Amico, M.D., Chairman
        HALBERG-G. Peter, M.D. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary notes with sorrow the passing of a long time member of our medical staff, attending ophthalmic surgeon and teacher. Joseph B. Walsh, M.D., Chairman Department of Ophthalmology
        HALBERG-Dr. Gyula Peter, 86. Early pioneer of color photography of the retina and optic nerve head, developer of glaucoma diagnostic instrumentation, organizer of medical contact lens fitting. He was born and educated in Budapest, Hungary, he earned an M.D. degree and specialized in ophthalmology at Budapest, Semmelweis University in 1947. While Hungary was under a communist regime, he accepted an invitation by world renowned Swiss ophthalmologist Professor Franceschetti in Geneva, Switzerland. He never returned to his native Hungary. After years of postgraduate study in the West, that included a Fellowship in Ophthalmology at Columbia University in New York and Certification by the American Board of Ophthalmology, he settled in New York City. From the 1960s, he was active on the New York Medical College academic staff, retiring 30 years later as Professor Emeritus of Ophthalamology. During this time, he was active first as Director of the Glaucoma Service of the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, and then as Chief of Glaucoma Service of New York's St. Vincent's Hospital. He is the developer of the Halberg Hand Applanation Tonometer, a glaucoma diagnostic instrument. With several forward-looking American and foreign ophthalmologist colleagues in the 1960s, he helped to establish the medical nature of contact lens fitting that, at that time, was practiced at many places by technicians exclusively. At the time of his death, he was Honorary Chairman of the International Contact Lens Council. A Professor G. Peter Halberg Gold Medal and stipend is given for contact lens related research by an independent international committee during the International Congress of Ophthalmology. During the Korean War, he served with the 121 Evacuation Hospital in charge of ophthalmology. In the Korean Battle Zone, he was promoted from Captain to Major U.S. Army Medical Corps and was decorated with a Bronze Star Medal. He is survived by his wife of 42 years, Marion Emily, born Handschuh, three children: Marion Halberg married to Dr. Michael Hardiman and their children Bridget and Katherine Hardiman of Mount Kisco, NY; Peter Halberg of New York; and Paul Halberg of Maui, Hawaii; his sister and brother-inlaw, Dorothea and Nicholas Wenckheim of New York.
      