
        HEILBRUNN-Robert H. The volunteers and staff of the American Diabetes Association and the American Diabetes Association Research Foundation mourn the loss of our dear friend, Robert H. Heilbrunn. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Harriet, and to his children and family. Mr. and Mrs. Heilbrunn's friendship, generosity and support have greatly helped to improve the lives of people affected by diabetes. It was through this giving spirit that the American Diabetes Association was able to fund Dr. Edward Horton's study on the endothelial dysfunction in subjects with glucose intolerance at Joslin Diabetes Center. Robert Heilbrunn's care and commitment to a cure for diabetes will stand as a shining example for us all. Stephen H. Smith, Chair of the Board Davida F. Kruger, Chair of the Research Foundation John H. Graham IV, CEO Joyce C. Waite, Regional Exec. VP
        HEILBRUNN-Robert H. The Board of Trustees and the staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of a generous benefactor, Robert H. Heilbrunn. Together with his wife, Harriet, Mr. Heilbrunn funded the creation of the illustrated Timeline of Art History. This online overview of the Museum's collection provides a basic geographical and chronological context for the history of art around the world, and will continue to expand in breadth and depth, honoring its patrons, Robert and Harriet Heilbrunn. We extend our sympathies to Harriet and the entire Heilbrunn family. Philippe de Montebello, Director
        HEILBRUNN-Robert. The Board of Directors, volunteers, clients and staff of Planned Parenthood of New York City are deeply saddened by the passing of Robert Heilbrunn. His visionary support of our educational programs has transformed our ability to work with young people, parents and teachers, and will have a profound impact on young people in our city for generations to come. We are grateful for his friendship and commitment and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Harriet, and his entire family. Cathy Cramer, Chair Joan Malin, CEO
        HEILBRUNN - Robert. The Trustees and Staff of Thirteen/ WNET New York mourn the loss of Robert Heilbrunn, a long-time friend to the station. Mr. Heilbrunn's generosity to Thirteen included the establishment of the Robert and Harriet Heilbrunn Programming Endowment, which provides a permanent base of support for cultural and educational programming. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Harriet, his daughters, Helaine and Joan, and the entire family.
        HEILBRUNN-Robert. On behalf of current and past students in Columbia Business School's Value Investing class, I express heartfelt condolences to the Heilbrunn family on the loss of Robert Heilbrunn. We will miss his wisdom, guidance and friendship. Bruce Greenwald Robert Heilbrunn Professor of Finance and Asset Management
        HEILBRUNN-Robert. The Columbia Business School Community mourns the loss of our beloved friend, Robert Heilbrunn. Our deepest sympathies and prayers are with the family at this time. Thousands of Columbia Business School alumni, students and future students will carry on Bob's legacy. Professor Meyer Feldberg, Dean
      