
        WEISS-Abraham. On November 1, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth. Loving father of Wendy Greenberg and Debra Weinberg. Dear father-in-law of Joel Greenberg and Laurence Weinberg. Devoted brother of Lillian Aronson. Adoring grandfather of Victoria and Barry, Andrew and Sarah. Greatgrandfather of Daphne. Service Monday, 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        WEISS-Abraham S. The members and trustees of the New York Cardiac Center Foundation mourn the death of our board member & friend, Abe Weiss. Abe's devotion to improving the lives of people inspired us in our educational and research activities. Abe was a passionate scholar & educator. He will be remembered for his wisdom, humor, generosity and devotion to humanity. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife, Ruth and bereaved family. Richard Glazer, President New York Cardiac Center
        WEISS-Abraham S. It is with deep sorrow and tearful sadness that we mourn the passing of our dear friend and a guiding spirit of the Allied Educational Foundation. His devotion to better the lives of working men and women will continue to guide us in our endeavors. He was a man we loved and respected. He always spoke with deep sincerity and affection to all those with whom he came in contact. We will miss him very much. May God bless his soul. Friends and Trustees of Allied Educational Foundation
        WEISS-Abraham. The members, officers, and staff of the former District 1115/SEIU deeply regret the passing of our friend and mentor, Abraham Weiss. ''Abe'' served our Union for five decades. He opened our minds through education, inspiration and humor so that we could imagine who we could be. We will never forget him. Our condolences to Abe's beloved wife Ruth and their family. Jay Sackman Executive Vice President 1199SEIU
        WEISS-Abraham. 3 Arrows Cooperative Society extends its heartfelt condolence to Ruth and the entire Weiss family at our mutual loss. He was an erudite and compassionate activist. Halona Balgley, President
      