
        LEAVEY-Joseph G., Lieutenant, NYFD, 45 of Ladder 15, NYFD gave his life in the line of duty at the WTC on September 11, 2001. Joe, a resident of Pelham, was born and raised in the Inwood Section of NYC on November 13, 1955 to Mary S. (Giannotti) & Joseph P. Leavey, retired NYC Transit Police. He married Carole J. Raffio on May 12, 1984 in St. Catharine's Church. He was the devoted father of Brian Michael & Caitlin Alexandra and stepfather and fatherin-law to Kerri & Chris Kelly of NYC. In addition to his wife and children of Pelham and his parents of Yonkers, Joe is survived by his mother-in-law Renee Raffio of Palm Coast, FL, his sisters and brothers-in-law Maureen & Jim McGillicuddy of Yonkers, Nora & Steve Coco of Rochester, Patty & Tim Sumner of Martinsburg, PA and brothers-in-laws Alex Raffio of Palm Coast and Walter Bagley of Bronxville. He was a wonderful uncle to his nephews, John & Timmy McGillicuddy, Mark Fitzgerald and his niece Christine Coco. He was the beloved nephew of Edward & Anna M. Leavey of Middle Village and the dear Godson of Mary Furlong of the Bronx. He is also survived by several cousins. He was predeceased by his father-in-law, Alex Raffio and his sister-in-law, Marilyn (Muffy) Bagley. Joe graduated from Good Shephard Grammar School, the former Power Memorial Academy and Manhattan College School of Engineering in 1977. He worked for the W.J. Barney Co. and HRH Co. in the Civil Engineering field. As a young boy, Joe always wanted to become a NYC Firefighter. He was appointed to the FDNY in 1982. He served at Engine 23, Ladder 4 and most recently as a Lieutenant at Ladder 15 on South Street all in Manhattan. He considered the WTC to be an ''Engineering Marvel''. How ironic that the building he loved so much would become his final resting place. Joe was active in his Parish of St. Catharine's where he served as an Eucharistic Minister and Lector. He also was the Treasurer for the Hutchinson School PTA, his daughter's school. He will be greatly missed by his family and friends. Visitation with the family will be held on Sunday, November 11, and Monday November 12, 2001 at the Pelham Funeral Home, 64 Lincoln Avenue, Pelham from 2-4 and 7-9 PM. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held at 10:30 AM on November 13, 2001 at Saint Catharine's Church, 25 Second Avenue, Pelham. Interment to follow at Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Valhalla.
      