
        GLIEDMAN-Marvin L., M.D. November 25, 2001. Distinguished surgeon and educator, beloved husband of Natalie, loving father of Chip and his wife Linda, Joanna and her husband Marc, devoted grandfather of Nathan. The Funeral Service will be held at Boulevard-Riverside Chapel, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, Tuesday at 12:30. Friends may call at home Wednesday through Friday from 3:00-8:00PM. Contributions in his memory may be made to the ''Department of Surgery'' for the Marvin L. Gliedman Professorship of Surgery and sent to Dr. T.S. Ravikumar, Chairman, Department of Surgery Montefiore Hospital and Medical Center, 111 East 210th Street, Bronx, New Yprk 10467.
        GLIEDMAN-Marvin L. The President, the Board of Trustees and the entire Montefiore community deeply mourn the death of our esteemed colleague Marvin L. Gliedman, M.D. In 1967, he accepted a position as professor of surgery at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and was named chief of the Department of Surgery at Montefiore Medical Center. Nine years later, he became the first unified chairman of the combined departments of surgery at the college and the hospital. His collegial nature, exceptional intelligence, sharp wit and humor equipped him with the tools to be a commanding leader, unifier and problem solver. As a teacher he was loved by his students, demanding much from them and always challenging them to strive to do better. In the field of surgery, he was an innovator who made seminal contributions in segmental pancreatic transplants for the treatment of diabetes. Although a private person in his own life, he was always available for those who sought his comfort and advice in theirs. In his personal life, he was an avid saltwater fisherman and an expert art collector with encyclopedic knowledge of American painters. He maintained an active surgical practice, even after he stepped down as chairman in 1991. To his wife Natalie, his son Charles, daughter Joanna and his grandson Nathan, we extend our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences. He will truly be missed. Spencer Foreman, M.D., President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Montefiore Medical Center
        GLIEDMAN-Marvin. The Departments of Surgery at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and the Montefiore Medical Center mourn the loss of our former Chairman and Chief and extend our deepest condolences to his wife and family. He was the leader in the creation of the Unified Department of Surgery of our two institutions and the teacher and inspiration to a generation of surgical trainees. He was a master surgeon. Through more than 200 articles, chapters and books he shared his wisdom and experience with younger surgeons. He remained active even after relinquishing his chair and during a prolonged illness. His presence and guidance will be missed by all of his colleagues and trainees. Dr. T.S. Ravikumar, Professor and University Chair, Faculty and Staff of the Department of Surgery
        GLIEDMAN-Marvin, M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of our world-renowned Professor of Surgery, who served our medical school with great devotion since 1967. As Chairman of Surgery from 1976 to 1990, he was the first chairman of a unified clinical department with Montefiore Medical Center. He was a distinguished surgeon, renowned among his colleagues as a champion of patients in poor and underserved areas, as well as a caring mentor and an inspirational leader. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        GLIEDMAN-Marvin, M.D. The Executive Board of The Friends of Rock Hall, Lawrence, N.Y. extend our heartfelt condolences to Natalie Gliedman, our past President, on the passing of her beloved husband, Dr. Marvin Gliedman.
        GLIEDMAN-Marvin, Dr. A dedicated doctor, a cherished friend, a great loss. He will be sorely missed. Marilyn and Meyer Ackerman
      