
        SLANER-Luella B. Died peacefully November 3, 2001, at home. Beloved mother of Eugenia Ames, Barbara Winslow and Deborah Larkin. Sister to Pauline Burgo. Grandmother to Alexander, Juliet, Jessie, Samantha, Margaret. Memorial service Thursday, November 8, 10 AM, Scarsdale Congregational Church, 1 Heathcote Rd, Scarsdale. Donations in her memory in lieu of flowers to Scarsdale Public Library.
        SLANER-Luella L. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Westchester Community Foundation, and the Philanthropic Council of its Westchester Fund for Women and Girls extend deepest sympathy to Deborah Slaner Larkin, her sisters, Eugenia Ames and Barbara Winslow, their children, Margaret, Alexander, Juliet, Jessie and Samantha on the death of their mother and grandmother Luella L. Slaner. She inspired many, including her daughter Deborah, Chair of the Women's Fund. Together they recognized the power of their relationship and the great impact that their combined leadership could have. The Mother-Daughter Campaign, born of this understanding, has provided the basis for the Fund's growth and will be a legacy to Mrs. Slaner's lifetime of service to Westchester County. James A. Sutton, Board Chair Catherine Marsh, Exec. Director Philanthropic Council of the Fund for Women and Girls
        SLANER-Luella B. The Board of Directors, administration and staff of F.E.G.S. note with sorrow the passing of Luella B. Slaner, mother of F.E.G.S. Board member Deborah Slaner Larkin and wife of the late Al Slaner, who was a longtime member of the F.E.G.S. Board. The Slaner family has been and continues to be a cherished part of our F.E.G.S. family. Their caring, commitment and compassion for those in need have made them true philanthropic leaders. We offer our heartfelt condolences to Deborah Slaner Larkin, Eugenia Ames, Barbara Winslow and the entire Slaner Family. Joseph Stein, Jr., President James S. Tisch, Chair Alfred P. Miller, C.E.O.
        SLANER-Luella B. Purchase College and the Purchase College Foundation mourn the loss of one of its dearest friends, Mrs. Luella Slaner, the major benefactress of the Asian Studies Program at the College. She had a lifelong commitment to education that benefited the faculty, students and greater community served by the College. We extend our profoundest condolences to Eugenia, Deborah, Barbara and their families. Bill Lacy President, Purchase College Emily Grant Chair, Purchase Coll. Foundation Margaret Sullivan and Renqiu Yu Purchase College
        SLANER-Luella. Members of the Center for Defense Information (CDI) Board of Directors and staff have lost a true friend and counselor. Always gracious, she provided insight, support and inspiration to CDI. As a champion bridge player, she understood the importance of strategy and encouraged CDI's independent monitoring of military policy, spending and weapons systems. A mother of three daughters, she encouraged women to take great interest in the quest for a more secure, peaceful and just world. She leaves her family and friends a living legacy of devoted civic service. We offer the Slaner family our heartfelt sympathy.
        SLANER-Luella. The Board and Staff of Scarsdale Edgemont Family Counseling mourn the passing of our longtime friend and supporter, Luella Slaner. A member of the SFCS Advisory Board, Mrs. Slaner was deeply committed to our work on behalf of children. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Geraldine Greene, Exec. Director Lorraine Gilden, Board President
      