
        FITZGERALD-Thomas Maurice Jr. Born April 23, 1928 to Dr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Fitzgerald of Brooklyn, NY, he was a graduate of Brooklyn Preparatory School and the College fo Arts and Sciences of Georgetown University. Following combat service as an artillery officer with the 2nd U.S. Infantry Division in the Korean War and marriage to the former Katharine H. Bigelow of La Canada, CA on January 9, 1954, he joined The First National Bank of Boston. Mr. Fitzgerald played a leading role in the formation and development of the 25 nation International Factors Group, the world's first network of bank sponsored companies dedicated to international trade credit management. He served as the Group's first President from 1967-72 and as a director of member companies in Canada, England, Ireland, Italy and Switzerland. In 1975, he joined Citicorp Business Credit as Senior Vice President and subsequently served as worldwide International Factoring Product Manager for Citibank, NA. In 1981, he joined Manufacturer's Hanover Commercial Corporation (later merged into the CIT Group) to establish an international factoring department with offices in Hong Kong, Milan and New York. He retired from CIT in 1992 as Senior Vice President International. The Fitzgerald's raised their family in Wellesley Hills, MA and Larchmont, NY. Mrs. Fitzgerald predeceased her husband in July 1996. Mr. Fitzgerald was decorated for service as banking advisor to the Controller of the Army and retired from the Army Reserve with the rank of Colonel. He was a past President of the Georgetown Club of New York, Fund Agent for the Class of 1950 and a member of the Board of Governors of the Georgetown Alumni Association. In 1992 he received the John Carroll medal, Georgetown's highest alumni award. He was a past Director of the University Club of Larchmont; a member of the Finance Committee of St. Augustine's Church and a member of the Larchmont Yale Club. He is survived by his sons: Thomas M. Fitzgerald, III, James B. Fitzgerald and Geoffrey B. Fitzgerald, all of Manhattan, a daughter, Katharine D. Fitzgerald of Oakland, CA, a sister Elizabeth F. Mohan of Rockville MD, a brother Richard V. Fitzgerald of Washington, DC and six grandchildren. Reposing Fox Funeral Home, 2080 Boston Post Road, Larchmont, Tuesday 7-9PM. Funeral Mass: St. Augustine's Church, Larchmont, NY, Wednesday 10AM. Burial: Arlington National Cemetery.
      