
        SLANER-Luella B. Died peacefully November 3, 2001, at home. Beloved mother of Eugenia Ames, Barbara Winslow and Deborah Larkin. Sister to Pauline Burgo. Grandmother to Alexander, Juliet, Jessie, Samantha, Margaret. Memorial service Thursday, November 8, 10 AM, Scarsdale Congregational Church, 1 Heathcote Rd, Scarsdale. Donations in her memory in lieu of flowers to Scarsdale Public Library.
        SLANER-Luella. The National Women's Law Center expresses deep sorrow at the passing of Luella Slaner, mother of NWLC Board member Deborah Slaner Larkin, and of Eugenia Ames and Barbara Winslow. She was an extraordinary woman who inspired others with her strong commitment to causes, people and institutions addressing those in need. Her impact was intergenerational-passing on her dedication to community service to her daughters and grandchildren. NWLC is fortunate to have been a beneficiary of her lifelong commitment to women and children. Our deepest sympathy goes out to her family for their loss. Elizabeth J. Coleman, Chairperson Nancy Duff Campbell, Co-Pres. Marcia D. Greenberger, Co-Pres.
        SLANER-Luella B. The Board of Trustees of the Jewish Home and Hospital mourn the passing of Luella Slaner, a devoted friend and benefactor of our Westchester facility, the Sarah Newman Center. Her visionary philanthropy established the Marion Stein Fund for Alzheimer's Disease which supports staff training, education and programming for our residents with dementia. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. David A. Jones, Board Chair Amy K. Pollinger, Chair, Sarah Newman Center Sheldon L. Goldberg, Pres. & CEO Rita Morgan, Administrator, Sarah Newman Center
        SLANER-Luella. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Luella Slaner, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation who, with her late husband, Alfred Slaner, was committed to Jewish and humanitarian causes. We extend our deepest sympathies to Luella's daughters, Deborah Larkin, Eugenia Ames and Barbara Winslow; to Luella's sister, Pauline Burgo; to her five grandchildren; and to her entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        SLANER-Luella L. The Antioch College community mourns the loss of Luella LaMer Slaner, one of our major supporters, particularly of our women's studies program & mother of Barbara Slaner Winslow, the secretary of our Board of Trustees. We extend our sympathy to the entire family. Robert D. Krinsky, Chair Board of Trustees James Hall, Chancellor Antioch University
        SLANER-Luella. My Sisters' Place mourns the passing of Mrs. Luella Slaner whose deep commitment to the well-being of women and children was a source of inspiration to our community. The Board and staff of My Sisters' Place extends its deepest condolences to her family. Julie A. Domonkos, Esq. Executive Director
        SLANER-Luella. The Board of Directors and members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Luella Slaner, whose many years of friendship, kindness and enthusiastic spirit will always be remebered. Beth Z. Post, President Roger H. Tulcin, Secretary
        SLANER-Luella. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Luella Slaner, and extend sincere condolences to her family. Paul N. Gardner, President
        SLANER-Luella La Mer. The North Star Fund sends its deepest condolences to the family of Luella La Mer Slaner. Much love to Barbara, Deborah, Eugenia and all members of the family. North Star Fund, NYC
      