
        CAPA-Edith, 88. The beloved wife of Cornell Capa, died at home in New York City on November 21 after a long illness. She was born in Budapest, Hungary, on May 3, 1913, the daughter of Lawrence and Hani Schwartz. Edith married Cornell Capa in 1940; in January 2001 they celebrate their sixty-first wedding anniversary. For more than 30 years Edith accompanied Cornell, a distinguished photographer for ''Life'' magazine and a member of the Magnum photo agency, on his assignments throughout the world. She also aided Cornell vitally in his projects that led, in 1974, to his founding of the International Center of Photography, in New York. For many years Edith single-handedly organized and maintained not only her husband's negatives and archives but also those of Cornell's late brother, Robert Capa, who was killed on assignment in Indochina in 1954. Furthermore, for hundreds of photographers from around the world Edith served as a kind of surrogate mother, always ready to provide a home away from home. Although Cornell and Edie have no children, they have a vast and loving extended family of honorary sons and daughters. Edie is survived by her husband, Cornell; by a sister, Miriam Siegel, of Lutz, FL; as well as by numerous nieces and nephews. Her funeral service will take place at Plaza Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue at 91 Street, in Manhattan, on Monday, November 26, at 11:00 AM.
        CAPA-Edith. The Trustees and staff of the International Center of Photography mourn the passing of the beloved wife of our Founder, Cornell Capa. His partner throughout a long and loving marriage, Edie also supported and nurtured the endeavors of all the ICP staff from the start of this institution. Her fierce commitment to the work of Cornell and the late Robert Capa, and the ''concerned'' photographers who inspired the founding of ICP, created the first archives of this institution and laid the foundation for the present-day collections. Her selfless dedication to ICP has been unwavering and an inspiration to us all. Held in the highest respect and affection, and always an important member of the ICP family, she will be deeply missed. Our heartfelt sympathy to Cornell and to Edie's many friends, whose great loss we share. Rita Hillman, Honorary Chair Gayle Greenhill, Chairman Raymond J. McGuire, President Willis Hartshorn, Director
        CAPA-Edith. Dear friend, soulmate to Cornell, lover of birds, dachshunds, and poodles, whose feisty spirit and courage inspired us all. Edie, we miss you already. Shirley and Yale Joel
      