
        SILVERMAN-Frederick, M.D. The Lenox Hill Hospital family expresses its profound sorrow at the passing of Frederick Silverman, M.D., a distinguished member of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for over 30 years. Throughout his career, his deep commitment to his patients was unwavering. Dr. Silverman earned the respect and admiration of all who knew him with his knowledge, compassion and integrity. He was a devoted and gifted educator who trained several generations of obstetricians, enthusiastically sharing with them his knowledge and love of medicine. Lenox Hill Hospital honors the memory of this truly remarkable physician who exemplified the highest standards of his profession. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Marilyn and his three daughters. James S. Marcus, Chairman Board of Trustees Gladys George, President & CEO Allen H. Collins, M.D., MPH President, Medical Board Michael Divon, M.D., Director Dept. of Obstetrics & Gynecology
        SILVERMAN-Frederick, M.D. On Nov. 6, 2001. Obstetrician and Gynecologist for over 40 years with private practices at Lenox Hill and New York Presbyterian Hospitals. Clinical professor at Weill Medical College, New York Presbyterian Hospital. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Cherished father of Marjorie Ridl and her husband David, Cara Silverman & Ellen Scanga and her husband Frank. Adoring grandfather of Edward Ridl. Dear brother of Arlene Cohen and her husband Saul. Services Thursday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Strret and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory to Cabrini Hospice.
        SILVERMAN-Frederick, M.D. ObGyn Associates, PC, Physicians and Staff, regret the untimely passing of our esteemed partner, Dr. Frederick Silverman. Fred was not only our partner, he was our mentor, and our dear friend. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Marilyn, our close friend, his daughters, Marjorie, Cara, and Ellen, his sons-in-law, David and Frank, and his grandson, Edward. He will be sorely missed and will always remain in our hearts. Bea and David James, Michael and Sharon Strongin, Ida Ellen Schwab, and Mara and Kenneth James
      