
        LANGER-Vanessa. Of Yonkers, N.Y., an office manager for Regus on the 93rd floor of Tower 2, missing and presumed dead since September 11, 2001 in the tragedy at the World Trade Center. She was the loving wife of Timothy Joseph Langer and mother-to-be of their unborn child. She was the cherished daughter of Donna Marsh and Walter Lang. Vanessa was born on October 31, 1971 at Einstein Hospital, Bronx, N.Y. She attended Liverpool High School and Syracuse University. Vanessa is survived by her mother and stepfather, Donna Marsh O'Conner and Robert O'Conner; two brothers, James and Jackson of Syracuse, N.Y.; father and stepmother Walter and Debbie Lang. Also three brothers, Dustin, David and Bobby Lang, all of Denver, CO. In addition to her husband, parents and siblings, Vanessa is survived by her grandmother, Betty Meister of Yonkers, N.Y., grandmother Marie O'Brien of New Jersey, aunt Nadine Knoll of Yonkers, aunt Robin and uncle Nicky Della Rocca, nieces Laura, Stephanie and nephew Nicholas Della Rocca of Yonkers. Also, uncle Michael Marsh and aunt Denise Marsh; nephews Christopher and Eric Marsh of Clifton, N.J., mother-in-law Elaine M. Langer of Congers, N.Y.; father-in-law Thomas G. Langer and his wife Susan of Scarsdale; brothers-in law Thomas M. Langer and wife Karen of Lakewood, N.J., Theodore F. Langer of Congers, N.Y. and Todd G. Langer and wife Rebecca of Denver, CO. Vanessa was a beautiful, beautiful person in appearance and spirit. Her smile was captivating and her whole attitude toward life was remarkable. She was kind, thoughtful, intelligent and very motivated; the ultimate woman and true friend. Although she relished the water, boating, the New York Yankees and Giants, her desire to have children with Tim was paramount. She enjoyed her pregnancy and could not wait to be a mother. She had given books to Tim titled, ''How to Pamper Your Pregnant Wife,'' ''What to Expect When Your Wife is Expanding,'' and ''She's Having A Baby and I'm Having a Breakdown.'' A celebration of her life will be held at the Kensico Cemetery, Lakeview, Valhalla, N.Y. on Sunday, November 11 at 12 noon. Vanessa, we will never forget you. For information call Lincoln Park Funeral Home, 914-963-1550.
      