
        de ROTHSCHILD-Debra Elisa, 42 years old, on November 13, 2001. Debra, beloved wife of Robert de Rothschild, mother of Jacob Alain de Rothschild, daughter of Leonard and Ileen Cohen, sister of Joel M. Cohen, aunt, niece, cousin and sister-in-law to many, loved and revered by all. Debra graduated from Miss Hall's School, Brandeis University and Emory University School of Law. A brilliant and dedicated attorney both in public and private practice, Debra pioneered the defense of battered women and was universally respected by colleagues, adversaries and jurists. Debra was an adjunct professor of law at Emory, Pace, and Cardozo law schools and was a Trustee of Miss Hall's School. Debra's immense charm and gentle strength transformed and touched so many lives and she was loved by all who knew her. She leaves an immense void and will be deeply missed by all of her friends and family. The funeral will occur at Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 E. 87 St, November 15, 2001, 11AM.
        de ROTHSCHILD-Debra. The Board of Directors and the staff of the The Jerusalem Foundation grieves the passing of Debra De Rothschild, wife of our esteemed good friend and board member, Robert De Rothschild. Debra's life was far too short, and we hope that beautiful memories will live on as a legacy to her life. We extend our deepest sympathy to Robert, Jacob and to the entire family. Teddy Kollek, Intl Chairman Ruth Cheshin, Intl President William Ackman, Chairman, USA Sandra Rubin, Exec Director, USA
        de ROTHSCHILD-Debra. We extend our deepest condolences to our dear friend, Robert, on the untimely death of his wife, Debra, who touched all of our souls. She inspired us, and we will always remember her as an ''Eshet Hayil''. May her spirit continue to nurture Robert, her beautiful son, Jacob, and all who knew and loved her. Nizza Heyman, Dalia Leeds, Perry Davis and the Board of Directors of IADAF, the Israel Anti-Drug Abuse Foundation
        de ROTHSCHILD-Debra. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of our congregant Debra de Rothschild. We extend our deepest condolences to Robert de Rothschild and their families. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        de ROTHSCHILD-Debra Cohen. With deep sadness, the Board of Trustees of Miss Hall's School mourns the passing of alumna and Trustee Debra Cohen de Rothschild. Craig M. Ferguson, President Jean K. Norris, Head of School
        de ROTHSCHILD-Debra. We mourn with Robert, our dear friend & colleague, his son Jacob and the Cohen family the loss of lovely and courageous Debra. Anita, Stanley Gluck and Family
        de ROTHSCHILD-Debra Elisa Cohen. A great friend, empathetic, sympathetic, generous, iridescent. A terrible emptiness is left by her passing. Diane and Ivan Fisher
      