
        SILVERSTONE-Sidney M., Dr., on December 4 at age 93. Beloved father of Harris, Alan, and David and their wives Ruth, Janice, andBarbara. Beloved grandfather of Robert and Heidi, Aron Silverstone and Tai-ping Sun, Nancy, Murray, Jayme Silverstone and Fred Heiberger, Mark, Scott, Leonard Dunn, and Meredith Dunn. Beloved great-grandfather of Michael and Max. Beloved brother-in-law of Saranne and Bill Chayefsky. Beloved uncle of many nieces and nephews. A founding member and past President, along with his beloved wife Estelle of blessed memory, of the Jewish Community Center of Harrison. Pioneering radiation oncologist who introduced in 1953 the first cobalt-60 radiation therapy unit in the world in an outpatient setting. Clinical professor and former chief of radiotherapy at Mount Sinai Hospital and School of Medicine, with which he was associated from 1938 until his retirement this year. A Major in the US Army Medical Corps during World War II with active service in North Africa, Italy, France, and England. Funeral services will be held Friday at 11:30 A.M. at the Jewish Community Center of Harrison, 130 Union Ave., Harrison, NY 10528. Followed by an Interment at Mount Pleasent Cemetery. Donations may be made to the Jewish Community Center of Harrison. For information, contact Zion Memorial Chapel, 914-381-1809.
        SILVERSTONE-Sidney, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our longstanding colleague, teacher and friend. Dr. Silverstone received his medical training in Cambridge. He began his association with Mount Sinai as an intern in 1934. After receiving additional training in the field of Radiotherapy, he devoted more than 60 years to clinical teaching and to the outstanding care of his patients. He will be remembered as a fine gentleman who was loved by his patients and respected by his colleagues. The AAS salutes his extraordinary commitment to Mount Sinai and his many years of service. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Anthony Squire, M.D., President Vicki Lopachin, M.D., Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
        SILVERSTONE-Dr. Sidney. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed Founding Member and Past President. We extend deepest sympathy to his children, Dr. David Silverstone of New Haven, Alan Silverstone of New York, Dr. Harris Silverstone of Baltimore, his grandchildren, two great grandsons and the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Emeritus Bernard Dienstag, Cantor Emeritus Katherine Teich, President Steven Chill, Chairman
      