
        LAPIDES-Robert E. Chairman of United Aluminum Corporation, one of Connecticut's oldest private corporations, passed away on December 21, after a brief illness. A devoted New Havener, Yale Man and WWII Naval commander, he was 83. Mr. Lapides was born and raised in New Haven and graduated from Yale University, Class of '39S with an engineering degree and an Ensign's commission in the U.S. Naval Reserve. Shortly thereafter, he was called to active duty. At 25, he became one of the youngest ever commanding officers of a fleet destroyer (the U.S.S. Dahlgren DD187, in 1943, followed by command of the U.S.S. Niblack DD424, in 1945). The Niblack was part of the American armada preparing to invade Japan, and he was one of the first ashore to witness the destruction of Hiroshima. Upon release from active duty in 1946, Mr. Lapides returned to United Smelting & Aluminum Company, the New Haven firm founded by his grandfather in 1891. Remaining in the Naval Reserves, he became Commanding Officer of Surface Division 3-8 and later Surface Battalion 3-27. He also served as Mobilization Director for the State of Connecticut until recalled to active duty as a Commander when the Korean War began. He was then called to the Pentagon, where he served on the staff of the Chief of Naval Operations on the Anti-Submarine Warfare Desk. After the war he returned to New Haven and rejoined his family's firm, where he was elected President in 1957. The Company became a leader in precision cold rolling of aluminum coil, serving markets worldwide. In 1968, Mr. Lapides relocated the Company to North Haven, CT, and in 1989 assumed the role of Chairman. It continues as United Aluminum Corporation, the second oldest aluminum roller in America. Mr. Lapides was active in community affairs. He served as the President of the Board of Trustees of the Hopkins School and Chairman of the North Haven Police Commission, and on the Boards of Yale New Haven Hospital, the St. Raphael's Foundation, First Bank of New Haven, the New Haven Savings Bank, Congregation Mishkan Israel and the New Haven Boy's Club. In 1996 Mr. Lapides was honored with a Hall of Fame Award from Junior Achievement; in 1998, both a Founders Award from Business New Haven and a Lifetime Achievement award from the Aluminum Association. Recently he was an Associate Fellow at Yale's Branford College and Treasurer of his Yale Class. Mr. Lapides is survived by his loving wife of 54 years, Ruth R. Lapides, and three children, John S. Lapides, of New Haven, James A. Lapides, of Brookline, MA, and Susan J. Lapides of Cambridge, MA, a sister, Joan L. Wingate, of Branford, CT, and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, January 6, 2002, at 2:30 PM, at Battell Chapel, Yale University. Memorial contributions may be made to the Ruth and Robert Lapides Scholarship at the Hopkins School or the Ruth and Robert Lapides Scholarship at the Yale Club of New Haven.
      