
        MANELLA-Daniel J. Former Chairman and CEO, Faberge Elizabeth Arden. Former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Faberge Elizabeth Arden, Inc. died peacefully Monday evening at the home of his daughter after an extended illness. He was 76. Born in Chicago, IL. on June 23, 1925, Mr. Manella was a graduate of Saint George High School in Evanston, IL. and later received both his B.S. degree in Industrial Engineering and his M.B.A. from Northwestern University, also in Evanston. Mr. Manella's business career spanned over five decades and the highlights of his distinguished career include Vice President, American Colortype Co., Chicago; Vice President, Rapid American Corp., N.Y.C., Executive Vice President, American Paper Specialty Co., N.Y.C., Chairman of the Board, American Paper Specialty Co., Chicago, President, SCM/Allied Paper Converting Co., Chicago, President, Chief Executive Officer, KGA Industries, N.Y.C., Director, BVD Co., Inc; President, BVD Co., Inc., N.Y.C., President, Anvil Brand, Inc., N.Y.C., President, Botany Shirt Co., Inc., N.Y.C., Chairman of the Board, CEO, Kenton Corp., N.Y.C., Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, McGregor Corp., N.Y.C., Executive Vice President, Rapid American Corp., N.Y.C., Vice President, McCory Corp., N.Y.C., President, Charles Town Race Track, Charles Town, W.Va.,President, Riviera Hotel, Las Vegas, NV., Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Faberge Co., Inc., N.Y.C., Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Faberge Elizabeth Arden, Inc., N.Y.C., Chief Executive Officer, Jelsert Co., Inc., Chicago. Known as a billiant manager and financier, Mr. Manella's professional achievement and personal philanthropy have been recognized by many business and charitable organizations including The Advertising, Broadcasting and Communications Industries Division of the Anti-Defamation League of the B'nai B'rith, The Boys Club of Little Italy and the Cabrini Medical Center of N.Y.C. where he also served as a director. Mr. Manella is survived by his daughters Susan Charkey and DeDe Manella and his son Daniel, Jr. Mr. Manella's wife Pat passed away in 1991. He is also survived by four grandsons, Steven and Jason Sharkey, Patrick and Christopher Harmes and by his two sisters, Rosemary Halleck and Margaret Mary Manella. The funeral mass will be held 10:30AM Friday, December 21st at Saint Edward Catholic Church, Palm Beach, FL. with entombment to follow at Riverside Memorial Park in Jupiter, FL. Inquires to Quattlebaum-HollemanBurse Funeral Home, 561-832-5171.
      