
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Helen Schneider, a beloved leader and cherished friend who was greatly admired for her extraordinary generosity and compassionate concern. Mrs. Schneider and her husband, Irving, earned enormous respect throughout the world as philanthropic giants, deeply devoted to Jewish and humanitarian causes. Through their inspiring leadership and insightful vision, they fostered new standards of excellence in pediatric care as the primary benefactors of the Schneider Children's Hospital of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center and the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel. Mrs. Schneider's significant contributions to health care, education, and the cultural arts in New York and overseas will be felt for generations to come. At UJA-Federation, she was cherished for her wisdom, guidance, and unwavering commitment. As a former trustee of UJA-Federation's Thrift Shop, she enhanced the facility's work on behalf of the Jewish community. Mrs. Schneider's extraordinary legacy lives on in the continuing efforts of her husband and her three daughters. We mourn the loss of a dear friend, and extend our deepest sympathies to Irving, a great leader in the Jewish community, who is a lifetime trustee of UJA-Federation and an inspiring force in our Real Estate Division; to Mrs. Schneider's daughters, Bunny, Lynn, and Mindy; her five grandchildren; and the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Joan Ginsburg, Chair of the Women's Campaign
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University and Bar-Ilan University in Israel extend sincerest condolences to the celebrated philanthropist, Irving Schneider, who is one of their honorary alumni. His beloved wife Helen was a true woman of valour who shared with him his manifold activities, especially for Israel, its educational institutions and its monumental health facilities. Together, they not only raised an exemplary family, but they wrote a magnificent chapter in the annals of Jewish philanthropy. We pray that Dr. Schneider will be comforted with beautiful memories that he will share with all his loved ones. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Bar-Ilan University Charles Dimston, Chairman, American Board of Trustees, American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Jane Stern Lebell, Hon. President, American Board of Trustees American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Melvin Stein, Esq., President, American Board of Trustees, American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Gen. (Ret.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President Bar-Ilan University
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Rabin Medical Center, Petah Tikva, Israel, our staff, patients, and community mourn the loss of our beloved Helen. Her warmth, compassion and generosity has already provided an enhanced quality of life, and particularly improved healthcare, for thousands of our patients. Her efforts on behalf of our hospital, and of so many other beneficiaries of her munificence, will help those who are in need for many future generations. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Helen's beloved husband, Irving, and to her children and grandchildren. May they be comforted by the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Dan Oppenheim, CEO Rabin Medical Center Mrs. Nava Barak, President, Israel Friends of Rabin Medical Center Barry Cohen, Chair of the Board American Friends of Rabin Medical Center
        SCHNEIDER - Helen. Helmsley Spear, Inc., mourns the passing of Helen Schneider, wife of our C.O.O., Irving Schneider. Those of us who were fortunate to meet her know what a special person she was and how much she meant to Irving, daughters Bunny, Lynn and Mindy and grandchildren Leah, Jeremiah, Max, Katie and Jake. Not only was Helen a wonderful mother, grandmother and 53 year partner to Irving, she successfully accomplished numerous philanthropic endeavors in the fields of health, education and the humanities. A confident woman, everything Helen did was with grace, style and dignity. She will be missed and our hearts go out to the entire Schneider family.
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities mourn the passing of Mrs. Helen Schneider. She was a tireless philanthropist whose compassion and caring improved the quality of life for countless children in the United States and in Israel through the extraordinary community and medical projects that her generosity helped to create. Throughout her life, Mrs. Schneider inspired excellence in those with whom she worked. We are grateful for her spirit and her commitment to repairing the world. To her husband, Irving, and her entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences.
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Department of Radiation Oncology of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of Helen Schneider, who with her husband, Irving, generously supported patient care and medical research in our Department. Helen was a woman of genuine valor, elegance and warmth. Her legendary dedication to health care will continue to benefit many future generations and will always be a source of inspiration for us all. Our deepest sympathies to Irving and the entire family. Itzhak D. Goldberg, M.D. Chairman
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board, Administration and staff of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation express deepest sympathies on the loss of Helen Schneider, wife of Irving Schneider, a longtime supporter of the Parker Institute. We extend prayers and our sincerest condolences to Irving, their daughters and entire family. Barbara N. Kurshan, Chair Board of Trustees Barry T. Zeman, President Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Board of Directors and staff of the National Foundation for Jewish Culture extends its deepest condolences to the family of Helen Schneider, mother of our valued board member Lynn Schneider Joseph, and wife of our generous benefactor, Irving Schneider. May her memory be for a blessing. James August, President Lynn Korda Kroll, Chair Richard A. Siegel, Exec. Dir.
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The City College Fund mourns the passing of Helen Schneider, wife of Irving Schneider, distinguished longtime Director and Board member. We extend our deepest sympathy to him and his family. Stanley H. Kaplan, Chairman Herbert Robinson, President James L. Schatz, Executive Director
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Midori & Friends' Board and staff mourn the passing of Helen Schneider, a wonderful friend and benefactor of our organization. Her extraordinary generosity and support of music education programs benefited children throughout the city. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Irving, her children, and her grandchildren.
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. Our deepest sympathies to the Schneider family on the loss of their beloved Helen, a woman whom we came to cherish for her great intelligence, vision, compassion, and dignity. The Bernstein Family and The Lightpath Long Island Classic benefitting Schneider Children's Hospital
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The physicians and staff of the Ann and Jules Gottlieb Women's Comprehensive Health Center mourn the loss of a great lady, whose enthusiasm, wisdom and kindness helped to inspire us. Our deepest sympathy to her beloved family.
      