
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. Died peacefully at age 79 on December 8, 2001, at Long Island Jewish Medical Center after a courageous battle with cancer. Loving wife for 51 years of Irving. Beloved mother of Bunny Mayersohn, Lynn Schneider Joseph and Mindy Schneider Lesser. Devoted mother-in-law of Ronald Mayersohn, Nathan Joseph and Dr. Michael Lesser. Adoring grandmother of Leah Mayersohn, Jeremiah Schneider Joseph, Max Schneider Joseph, Katie Schneider Lesser and Jake Schneider Lesser. Survived by sister Anne Jacobs, predeceased by brothers Samuel and David and sisters Celia and Estelle. Adored aunt to many nieces and nephews. A great lady, elegant and fine, whose passion and compassion touched people of all ages and all places. Funeral services will be held Monday, December 10, 12 noon, at Central Synagogue, Lexington Avenue at 55th St. Donations may be made to Medical Development for Israel, 130 East 59th St, Suite 1203, NY, NY 10022, or Schneider Children's Hospital, Room CH102, Long Island Jewish Medical Center, New Hyde Park, NY 11040.
        SCHNEIDER-Helen (nee Bauman). We mourn the passing of Helen Schneider, who for more than 30 years worked alongside her husband, Irving Schneider, a trustee of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System and a former chairman of the LIJ Medical Center, to deliver the highest quality of medical care to children. A life member of Long Island Jewish Hospital's Service Guild, Mrs. Schneider became an in-service volunteer in the pediatric playroom. It was her great love for children that inspired her two daughters, Lynn Joseph and Mindy Lesser, to follow in her footsteps and eventually brought about the naming of the Schneider Children's Hospital. A pivotal force in commissioning the celebrated works of art surrounding the Children's Hospital, Mrs. Schneider will also be remembered for her dedication to the building of the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel in Petach Tikvah near Tel Aviv. It is the only tertiary care facility for children in Israel serving the medical needs of children in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. Mr. and Mrs. Schneider were true partners in everything they did as a family and on behalf of the hospital. They endowed many of the Medical Center's research and education programs, establishing fellowships in several areas including hematology/oncology, radiology, psychiatry and pulmonary medicine and pediatric cardiology. In addition to her generosity to Schneider Children's Hosptial, Mrs. Schneider also served on the boards of the LIJ Service Guild and the Ronald McDonald House of Long Island, which is located on the LIJ campus. She is survived by her husband of more than 50 years and their three daughters, Bunny Mayersohn, Lynn and Mindy, and grandchildren. Her lifelong commitment to the health and well being of the world's children will never be forgotten-and is her rich legacy. Roy J. Zuckerberg Chairman, Board of Trustees John S.T. Gallagher, CEO Michael J. Dowling, COO Jon R. Cohen, M.D. Chief Medical Officer North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The faculty and staff of the Schneider Children's Hospital in New Hyde Park, NY, mourn the loss of Helen Schneider. Her philanthropic endeavors both in this country and abroad were legendary and the hallmark of her life. With grace, style, determination and courage, she devoted herself to the welfare of children around the world. She contributed her talent, time and energy to the Schneider Children's Hospital both in New Hyde Park and in Israel in order to create a climate of comfort, solace and kindness assuring that children who enter the hospital, which bears her name, would not be traumatized by the experience. Helen carefully selected and commissioned the magnificent works of art and sculpture that adorn the Children's Hospital and stand as testimony to her sense of aesthetics, taste and deep commitment to the welfare of all children. Together with her husband, she played a vital role in the vision and the establishment of the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, one of the most outstanding children's hospitals in the world; a beacon of hope for all children of the Middle East and the Mediterranean basin. It was Helen's fervent desire that the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel would be a bridge to peace between Israel and its neighbors. She, together with her husband, was the recipient of numerous citations from the State of Israel, international organizations and universities. We extend our sympathies to her husband Irving, her daughters Bunny, Lynn and Mindy, her sons-in-law and her grandchildren. Philip Lanzkowsky, M.D. Chief-of-Staff Schneider Children's Hospital New Hyde Park, NY
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The entire Long Island Jewish Medical Center community mourns the loss our beloved friend and benefactor, Helen Schneider, a supporter of children's health care and other causes. Along with her husband Irving, they had the vision and foresight to support the Schneider Children's Hospital on the Long Island Jewish Medical Center campus in New Hyde Park, NY, and to establish the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel near Tel Aviv, Israel. Her selfless devotion to the health and well being of children served as a motivating force in furthering the mission of the Children's Hospital by attending to the health needs of countless thousands of children here in the New York metropolitan area and abroad. Her association with numerous philanthropic organizations, including the Helen and Irving Schneider Foundation, the UJA Federation, and the Ronald McDonald House of Long Island, spanned more than three decades. Her tireless work, generosity and devotion to Long Island Jewish Medical Center will be greatly missed by the Medical Center's family, which includes over two thousand physicians and dentists. Helen is survived by her husband Irving, her three daughters and grandchildren. We extend our sympathies to the Schneider family and remember the life-long commitment Helen made to bringing health care to children of all races, nationalities and religions. Paul Hochenberg Executive Director L. I. Jewish Medical Center Allan Abramson, M.D. President, Medical Board L. I. Jewish Medical Center
        SCHNEIDER - Helen. Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel (SCMCI) expresses its profound grief and sorrow on the passing of Helen Schneider, ''Eshet Chayil,'' visionary and founder. Helen shared the dream of her husband, Irving, to establish a hospital in Israel dedicated solely to the special needs of children. Her unique understanding of the different cultures and mentalities making up the population in the country contributed towards the hospital's founding principle to serve as a ''bridge to peace'' between Israel and her neighbors. Helen Schneider epitomized grace and style and her personal indelible mark became an integral part of SCMCI. Through her sense of aesthetics, her impeccable taste, and her deep devotion and caring for the welfare of all children, innovative projects and supportive care programs were initiated. There is no doubt that SCMCI would not be the renowned pediatric institution that it is today without the hand and heart of Helen Schneider. May her memory be blessed. We extend heartfelt condolences to Irving Schneider, children, Bunny and Ronald Mayersohn, Lynn Schneider Joseph and Nathan Joseph, Mindy Schneider Lesser and Dr. Michael Lesser, and grandchildren, Leah, Jeremiah, Max, Katie and Jake. Dr. Itamar Offer, Acting Director Management and Staff of SCMCI
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University and Bar-Ilan University in Israel extend sincerest condolences to the celebrated philanthropist, Irving Schneider, who is one of their honorary alumni. His beloved wife Helen was a true woman of valour who shared with him his manifold activities, especially for Israel, its educational institutions and its monumental health facilities. Together, they not only raised an exemplary family, but they wrote a magnificent chaper in the annals of Jewish philanthropy. We pray that Dr. Schneider will be comforted with beautiful memories that he will share with all his loved ones. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Bar-Ilan University Charles Dimston, Chairman, American Board of Trustees, American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Jane Stern Lebell, Hon. President, American Board of Trustees American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Melvin Stein, Esq., President, American Board of Trustees, American Friends of Bar-Ilan University Gen. (Ret.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President Bar-Ilan University
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. With the deepest sorrow, Dr. Yitzhak Peterburg, Director General of Clalit Health Services in Israel, the Board of Directors, the administration and doctors and nurses of Clalit mourn the passing of a most cherished friend, and extend condolences to Irving Schneider and the family on their loss. A woman of commitment and caring, Helen Schneider dedicated her life to the well-being of others. Clalit's Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel was envisioned and founded through the unwavering devotion and generosity of Irving and Helen Schneider, exemplifying the highest Zionist and humanitarian ideals, and bringing a new level of pediatric excellence to Israel and its neighboring countries. Together they have provided extraordinary support for medical projects in Clalit hospitals and clinics, as well as for a wide range of outstanding projects in other spheres of society. We salute her accomplishments and incomparable deeds. We will treasure her memory always.
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Helen Schneider, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation who earned the admiration of colleagues and friends for her exceptional generosity in helping those in need. Among her many roles at UJAFederation, Helen served on the organization's Thrift Shop Committee. With her husband, Irving Schnieder, she created medical and cultural centers that continue to make a difference in the lives of Jews in the United States and abroad. Helen's daughters are also strong supporters of Jewish and humanitarian causes. We extend our deepest sympathies to Irving; to Helen's daughters, Lynn, Mindy, and Bunny; to her grandchildren; and to her entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Joan Ginsburg, Chair of the Women's Campaign
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and Benefactor, who, with her husband, Irving, generously supported medical research and education programs at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University. Her compassion for the sick and less fortunate is both a legacy and an inspiration to us all. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Irving; to their children, Bunny, Lynn and Mindy, and to the entire family. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Robert M. Beren, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The City College of New York and the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education/CUNY Medical School mourn the passing of Helen Schneider, whose philanthropic endeavors benefited a host of worthy causes. Mrs. Schneider and her husband Irving, who is a distinguished City College alumnus, have been generous supporters of the College and the Sophie Davis School. On behalf of the CCNY community we wish to extend our sincere condolences to Mr. Schneider and his family. Dr. Gregory H. Williams President The City College of New York/ CUNY Stanford A. Roman, Jr., MD Dean, The Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education/CUNY Medical School
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The faculty and staff of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset wish to express our deepest sadness on the passing of Helen Schneider. A true humanitarian, she worked tirelessly for children, ensuring that the highest degree of medical care was available for all. Through that commitment she & her husband Irving, generously supported both Schneider Children's Hospital in New Hyde Park and Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, near Tel Aviv. She will be missed by her many friends at North Shore. We extend our most sincere condolences to Irving Schneider and his family. Dennis Dowling Executive Director North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset
        SCHNEIDER - Helen. Helmsley Spear, Inc., mourns the passing of Helen Schneider, wife of our C.O.O., Irving Schneider. Those of us who were fortunate to meet her know what a special person she was and how much she meant to Irving, daughters Bunny, Lynn and Mindy and grandchildren Leah, Jeremiah, Max, Katie and Jake. Not only was Helen a wonderful mother, grandmother and 53 year partner to Irving, she successfully accomplished numerous philanthropic endeavors in the fields of health, education and the humanities. A confident woman, everything Helen did was with grace, style and dignity. She will be missed and our hearts go out to the entire Schneider family.
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Jerusalem Foundation extends its deepest condolences to Irving Schneider and his family on the passing of Helen. Helen was a dedicated and generous philanthropist, committed to health care and quality of life issues for all the citizens of Jerusalem. She will be remembered for her kindnesses, concerns and especially, love of Israel. Teddy Kollek, International Chair Ruth Cheshin, International President William Ackman, Chairman, USA Sandra Rubin, Executive Director, USA
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York express their deep sorrow at the loss of Helen Schneider, beloved wife of our dear Irving. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Irving, children and grandchildren. May the warm personal memories of their shared life and times with Helen bring a lightness to their hearts at this sad time. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Trustees and staff of the Museum of Jewish Heritage-A Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of Helen Schneider, beloved wife of Trustee Irving Schneider. Helen's grace and elegance extended throughout her life and to all of her tireless philanthropic pursuits. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Irving, their daughters, Bunny, Lynn and Mindy, and the entire Schneider family. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chairman Board of Trustees
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Physicians and Staff of the Department of Otolaryngology at Long Island Jewish Medical Center express with deep sorrow the passing of Helen Schneider, a generous benefactor and esteemed friend, and extend to her beloved husbnd Irving and family our deepest sympathy. Her spirit will live on through her daughters Lynn, Mindy and Bunny, and their children. Allan L. Abramson, M.D. Chairman
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. On behalf of all the children and women who benefited from your commitment, innovation, warmth, and devotion, we mourn the loss of a great lady. You touched so many lives, and helped so many people. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Schneider family. Vicki Seltzer, M.D. and the Departments of OB/GYN of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. Central Synagogue notes with profound sadness the passing of our member, Helen Schneider. A beloved and dedicated wife, mother and grandmother, she brought her unique gentleness and compassion to her many philanthropic projects. She will be sadly missed by all of us whose lives she touched. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Ronald McDonald House of Long Island mourns the passing of Helen Schneider, a founding member of our board & generous benefactor. We extend our deepest sympathies to Irving and the entire family. Her wisdom and guidance will be sorely missed. Ira I. Altfeder, Chairman, Board of Directors
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Officers, Directors and Administration of Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center express heartfelt sympathy to Irving Schneider, a founding supporter of our Center, on the passing of his wife, Helen. We extend sincere condolences to the entire family. Joseph Gurwin, Chairman Lawrence Simon, President Herbert H. Friedman, Exec. V.P.
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. We extend our sincerest, heartfelt sympathy to Irving, Bunny, Lynn, Mindy, and the entire Schneider family on the passing of their adored wife and mother, Helen. She was an elegant, charming and giving individual whose warmth and humor will be truly missed. Lonnie & Tom Schwartz
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. My deepest sympathies to the entire Schneider family. Mindy, Helen's daughter, has been my steadfast friend since our college days at Brandeis. Helen Schnieder was a regal yet warm woman who was so often in our conversations. What a wonderful example she set for us all. Ethel Steindl
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband Irving and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Helen Schneider, and extends sincere sympathy to her family and friends. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Children's Medical Fund of NY expresses its deepest sympathy to the family of Helen Schneider. Our thoughts are with them at this time of bereavement. Jeffrey S. Jurick, Chairman
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. We will always remember your comforting hugs, helping us whenever we needed you, and always being there for grandparents visiting day. Love always, Katie and Jake
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Partners and Staff of Herman Wolfson & Co. express our sincere condolences to Irving Schneider and his family on the passing of his dear wife.
        SCHNEIDER - Helen. Grandma Helen, you will be in my thoughts every day and in my dreams every night. I love you and miss you terribly. Leah
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. For us, you will always be answering the door with big hugs and kisses or saying, ''One minute, I'm just finishing the gefilte fish.'' Love you always, Jeremiah and Max
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. A woman of such elegance and valor, may you rest in eternal peace. Love, Connie Mann Gural
      