
        HERRMANN - Marjorie Sarah Kiam on December 3, 2001 at age 91. Widow of John A. Herrmann, who died in 1959. ''Nan'' is survived by her children John Jr. and Mary Rossabi and their spouses Anne Herrmann and Morris Rossabi as well as her grandchildren Amy and Howard, Tony, Jed, Tim and Edward Levin. Marty spent her life assisting others through her work with: The Red Cross, Cancer Care, Blythdale Children's Hospital, Mount Sinai Auxillary Board, Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services and New Alternatives For Children. Memorial Service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street on Friday 9:30 AM. In lieu of flowers contributions in her memory may be made to any of the above organizations.
        HERRMANN - Marjorie. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with sadness the death of Marjorie Herrmann, beloved mother of John and Anne Herrmann and Mary Jane and Morris Rossabi. Marty was a long standing and devoted trustee of JBFCS and a former member of its Executive Committee. Having come to us from Jewish Family Service, a predecessor agency to JBFCS, Marty was especially active for many years on the Madeleine Borg Community Services Divisional Committee. She strongly believed in our reponsibility to serve all New Yorkers in need and was always a voice for those who had no power. Her son John is a longstanding trustee and serves as an agency vice-president and chair of the Development Committee. His extraordinary dedication and enthusiasm for the work of our agency will carry on Marty's legacy. Her grandson, Tony Rossabi has also been an active leader, having served as Chair of the JBFCS Friends. We will remember Marty fondly and miss her. Our condolences to the entire family. Seymour R. Askin, Jr. Chairman of the Board Joseph S. Kaplan President Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive Vice President and CEO
        HERRMANN - Marjorie. Marty was a lifelong advocate for children with disabilities. As a founder of New Alternatives for Children (NAC), she gave freely of her wit, wisdom, and advice to help the young agency grow. Her dedication and unwavering commitment to NAC was an inspiration to all of us. We will miss her warmth and experience and extend our deepest sympathies to her loving family, John and Anne, Mary and Morris and their children. Elizabeth S. Pforzheimer President Arlene Goldsmith Executive Director
        HERRMANN-Marjorie. The entire Blythedale Children's Hospital community mourns the loss of our dear friend Marty Herrmann. She was a Board member and Honorary Board Member for 56 years, serving as Vice President from 1961 through 1970. We send condolences to her entire family. Laurence Cohen, Chair of the Board of Trustees Larry Levine, President and CEO Joelle Mast, Ph.D, M.D., Chief Medical Officer
      