
        SQUADRON-Howard M. Of New York City. Age 75, December 26, 2001. Much loved husband of Anne. father of Bill, Rich, Diane, Seth and Daniel. Father-in-law of Debra, Theodosia and Tom. Brother of Arthur. Proud grandfather of Laurel, Jake, Elizabeth, Alex, Neill, Justin, Sam and Catherine. A life-long New Yorker devoted to family and community. His commitment to the law, the Jewish community, the arts and human rights was extraordinary. His strength, wisdom and humor will live with us always. Service Sunday, December 30th at 11AM at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 West 68 St, N.Y. Contributions in his memory may be made, in lieu of flowers or other expressions of sympathy, to the American Jewish Congress, City Center 55th Street Theater Foundation, International Center of Photography or the Squadron Program in Law, Media & Society at Benjamin N. Cardozo Law School.
        SQUADRON-Howard M. Squadron Ellenoff Plesent & Sheinfeld LLP is deeply saddened by the death of one of our founding partners, Howard Squadron. Howard was an extraordinary leader, a lawyer of superb judgement, a influential statesman, an avid supporter of education and the arts and a loyal friend and partner. Throughout his legal career, Howard handled a long list of major First Amendment, civil rights and pro bono cases for loyal corporate and business clients, including The News Corporation, and for civic organizations. He was heavily involved in campaigns to protect individual civil rights and civil liberties and his devotion to upholding these and other constitutional rights earned him a reputation as one of the most distinguished members of the bar. His accomplisments were widely recgonized and underscored by the naming of Cardozo Law School's, Howard M. Squadron Program in Law, Media & Society. Howard's significant influence reached far beyond the law. His contributions are highly valued by the United Nations, the Democratic Party, the American Jewish Congress, the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, City Center 55th Street Theater Foundation, The International Center of Photography, Magnum Photos, City University of New York, Cordozo Law School, The Joffrey Ballet, The New York Negro Ballet, The New York State Council on the Arts and the Alvin Ailey Company. His friends, partners and employees will miss his emotional, intellectual and human companionship and we join his wife Anne; his children Bill, Richard, Diane, Seth and Daniel; his brother Arthur and the entire Squadron family in mourning his inestimable loss.
        SQUADRON-Howard. The founders and the first generation of trustees and staff of the International Center of Photography are deeply saddened by the passing of our founding president Howard Squadron who guided this institution from its conception to the full realization of its establishment as New York City's first museum and museum school of photography. Howard's brilliance and enthusiasm for the vision that was to become ICP shone through the many meetings he oversaw and strategies he helped devise to organize, incorporate, fund and ensure the permanence of the fledgling institution. His dedication, commitment and wise counsel throughout the succeeding years were always graciously given. Those who knew how important his role had been felt continuous gratitude in his belief in us and the friendship he continued to proffer as we grew. ICP feels a great loss and extends deeply felt sympathies to Anne and to Howard's entire family. Cornell Capa, Founding Director Rita Hillman, Honorary Chair Karl Katz, Founding Trustee Willis Hartshorn, Director
        SQUADRON-Howard M. The members of the Board of Directors of the Abraham Fund are deeply saddened by the passing of their longtime supporter and founding Board Member. Howard was instrumental in advancing the Abraham Fund's work of promoting coexistence between Jewish and Arab citizens of Israel. Howard will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to Anne and to Howard's entire family. Alan B. Slifka, Chairman Judy Eigen Sarna, President Dan Pattir, Executive V.P. Barbara Merson, V.P. Members of the Board of Directors
        SQUADRON-Howard. Always the absolute gentleman; a brilliant lawyer and a very dear friend; a giant in various aspects of community work. Our hearts are filled with sadness for Anne and the entire Squadron family. Irving Schneider and Family
      