
        HENDRICKSON-Edwin F. Died on December 18, 2001 at his home in Glen Head, NY with his family at his bedside. Cause of death was pancreatic cancer. Born on December 29, 1910 in the then farming community of Bridgehampton, NY, to Howard and Edith (nee Rogers) Hendrickson. He attended public school there and went on to receive both his undergraduate and law degrees from Cornell University. He was admitted to the New York State Bar in 1941. His first employment was with the firm of Root, Clark, Buckner and Ballentine in New York City. In 1941 he was called to active duty in the U.S. Army. He served as an Artillery Officer with the First Infantry Division in campaigns in North Africa and Sicily and landed on Omaha Beach during the Normandy Invasion. At the end of World War II, Mr. Hendrickson stayed in the U.S. Army Reserves eventually retiring with the rank of Colonel. His military service having begun in the horse-drawn artillery was completed in the age of the computer. Returning to civilian pursuits in 1946, he rejoined his former firm. Two years later he joined the firm of Payne, Wood and Littlejohn in Glen Cove, NY for a career that spanned over 50 years and led to a senior partnership. Greatly respected in the legal profession, Mr. Hendrickson was honored this past April by the Nassau County Bar Association in celebration of the sixtieth anniversary of his admission to the Bar. Mr. Hendrickson was an avid golfer all his life. As a youth in the 1920s, he caddied at the National Golf Links and the Shinnecock Hills Golf Club at Southampton, NY, thus helping finance his college education. Later he was a member of the Cherry Valley Club at Garden City, NY and the Piping Rock Club at Locust Valley, NY. Aged 88, he sank his last hole-in-one at the Miles Grant Country Club in Stuart, FL, where he and his wife of 63 years, Margaret Weeks Hendrickson, had wintered for several years. Both had previously wintered in Homestead, FL for over 25 years. Besides belonging to a number of professional organizations, Mr. Hendrickson was a member of the Hempstead Harbour Yacht Club, the First Division Society, the Holland Society and the Townsend Society of America. In addition to his wife, Mr. Hendrickson is survived by his children, Edwin, Jr. of Sag Harbor, NY, Howard of Tarrytown, NY, and Margaret H. Kessler of Atlanta, GA. His survivors also include three grandchildren, two great grandsons, a brother Richard of Bridgehampton, NY, and a sister Edith Williams of Raleigh, NC. There will be a memorial service held at St. Luke's Episcopal Church in Sea Cliff, NY. The family prefers, in lieu of flowers, donations be made to the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network, PO Box 1010, Torrance, CA 90505 or the Hospice Care Network, 900 Merchants Concourse, Westbury, NY 11590. Committal will be private. For information, contact Whitting Funeral Home 516671-0807.
      