
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. Died peacefully at age 79 on December 8, 2001, at Long Island Jewish Medical Center after a courageous battle with cancer. Loving wife for 51 years of Irving. Beloved mother of Bunny Mayersohn, Lynn Schneider Joseph and Mindy Schneider Lesser. Devoted mother-in-law of Ronald Mayersohn, Nathan Joseph and Dr. Michael Lesser. Adoring grandmother of Leah Mayersohn, Jeremiah Schneider Joseph, Max Schneider Joseph, Katie Schneider Lesser and Jake Schneider Lesser. Survived by sister Anne Jacobs, predeceased by brothers Samuel and David and sisters Celia and Estelle. Adored aunt to many nieces and nephews. A great lady, elegant and fine, whose passion and compassion touched people of all ages and all places. Funeral services will be held Monday, December 10, 12 noon, at Central Synagogue, Lexington Avenue at 55th St. Donations may be made to Medical Development for Israel, 130 East 59th St, Suite 1203, NY, NY 10022, or Schneider Children's Hospital, Room CH102, Long Island Jewish Medical Center, New Hyde Park, NY 11040.  SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Board of Trustees and staff of Medical Development for Israel, Inc. (MDI) are deeply saddened by the loss of Mrs. Helen Schneider. Helen Schneider was a woman of valor whose activities on behalf of charitable causes assure her a place of honor among the men and women of distinction for many decades. The list of philanthropic endeavors championed by Helen Schneider along side her beloved husband, Irving, is long and diverse. The list includes organizations and institutions caring for children, for the elderly, for the Arts and Sciences, for Education and for many individuals in need of support. Helen Schneider has been a full partner to all her husband's many philanthropies. At the same time, together with her daughters, she took on additional tasks on behalf of various charitable activities, especially those concerning children's welfare and well-being. MDI is fortunate to be the American representative of the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel (SCMCI) and as such, to benefit a great deal from Helen Schneider's boundless energy, ideas, time and guidance. Every single act of Helen Schneider was characterized by elegance, dignity and a quest for perfection. She was indeed a standard for excellence in all her endeavors. Helen Schneider was a fiercely private and dignified lady who shunned personal publicity and rejected vain platitudes; instead, she focused on the task at hand and on getting a job done. Every project undertaken by Helen Schneider on behalf of MDI has been a success and served to further the cause of the children at SCMCI. Her name commands respect and appreciation both in the United States and in Israel. Helen Schneider is irreplaceable and the void she leaves is permanent. However, there will always be the children and their families who over the years have benefited from her work who will not forget. A testimonial to Helen Schneider can best be found in Proverbs: Chapter 31: ''A woman of valor who can find...She stretches out her hand to the poor; She reaches out her arms to the needy...dignity and strength are her garb; She smiles to her last day...She looks after her household; She never eats the bread of idleness. Give her due credit for her achievements; let Her own works praise her at the gates.'' MDI extends heartfelt condolences to her husband Irving, to her daughters Bunny, Lynn and Mindy, her sons-inlaw and her grandchildren. H. Irwin Levy, Chairman Reuben S. Leibowitz, President Hon. Uri Bar-Ner, Vice Pres., MDI  SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Officers and Members of The Staff Society of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center mourn the loss of Helen Schneider. A Founder and Benefactor of the Schneider Children's Hospital, Ronald McDonald House of Long Island and the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, she devoted her life to improving the health and well-being of children worldwide. Together with her life partner Irving, Mrs. Schneider exemplified the most humanistic qualities of mankind. We extend our sympathies to her husband, her children and her grandchildren. She will be missed. Ira N. Kalfus, M.D., President Eugene Friedman, M.D., V.P. Randall Feingold, M.D., Treasurer Keith Cardell, M.D., Secretary  SCHNEIDER-Helen. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff extend our deepest condolences to her husband Irving, their daughters Lynn and Mindy and the entire family. Helen was a dedicated Board Member who loved music and valued the IPO's role as cultural ambassador and educator of the future generation. As a Founding Benefactor she sponsored free concerts played by the IPO and led in the planning for a revitalized Mann Auditorium in Tel Aviv. She will be sorely missed. Zubin Mehta and Itzhak Perlman, Co-Chairmen Albert Schussler and Elaine Wolfensohn, Co-Presidents Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Dir.  SCHNEIDER - Helen. Helmsley Spear, Inc., mourns the passing of Helen Schneider, wife of our C.O.O., Irving Schneider. Those of us who were fortunate to meet her know what a special person she was and how much she meant to Irving, daughters Bunny, Lynn and Mindy and grandchildren Leah, Jeremiah, Max, Katie and Jake. Not only was Helen a wonderful mother, grandmother and 53 year partner to Irving, she successfully accomplished numerous philanthropic endeavors in the fields of health, education and the humanities. A confident woman, everything Helen did was with grace, style and dignity. She will be missed and our hearts go out to the entire Schneider family.  SCHNEIDER-Helen. The staff of the Division of Hematology Oncology, its Joel Finkelstein Ambulatory Chemotherapy and Transfusion unit and its Inpatient unit at the Long Island Jewish Medical Center deeply mourns the loss of Helen Schneider, a grand lady of grace and courage. Our heartfelt condolences to her loving husband Irving Schneider, her daughters and her entire family. Kanti R. Rai, M.D. Bhoomi Mehrotra, M.D. Dilip Patel, M.D. Mark Hoffman, M.D. Linda Russo, M.D.  SCHNEIDER-Helen. With deep sadness, we mourn the passing of our good friend, Helen Schneider. Member of the Founders Society and beloved wife of our good friend and Founder Society member, Irving Schneider. Our prayers and condolences to the family. Irving M. Rosenbaum National Chairman Marshall J. Cohen, Esq. Executive Committee Eric G. Heffler Executive Vice President American Friends of The Open University of Israel  SCHNEIDER-Helen. With sadness, I offer my condolences to my boss, mentor and friend, Irving Schneider, and the entire Schneider family on the passing of their matriarch, Helen. A woman of strength, intelligence and compassion, Helen made the world a better place through her numerous philanthropic efforts. I hope the Schneider family finds solace in the knowledge that Helen was revered by all who were fortunate enough to have known her. Bob Hecht and Family  SCHNEIDER-Helen. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Helen. Together with her husband Irving, they were founding Board Members and are loyal, staunch supporters of our cause. Their guidance and generosity continue to be instrumental in enabling us to advance our goal-the ultimate defeat of cancer. We extend our sincerest condolences to Irving, Lynn, Mindy, Bunny, and the entire Schneider family. The Joel Finkelstein Cancer Foundation  SCHNEIDER-Helen. Our deepest heartfelt condolences to Irving and the entire Schneider family on the loss of their beloved wife, mother and grandmother Helen. Helen was a strong, enduring and supportive friend to our entire family, especially Lew. In our mutual grieving, let us find solace in knowing they are now together watching over us. Love, Rachel, Susan, Jack, Beth, Cliff Ophelia, Bill and the entire Rudin Family  SCHNEIDER-Helen. How does one say good-bye to a person who has had such a strong impact on your life. You were one of the most unique human beings we have had the honor to know. We will miss your wonderful sense of humor, your wisdom, your love of life and above all your noble spirit. You will eternally be in our hearts as a source of inspiration to what true goodness can be. We love you now and forever. Iris and Tzachi Langer  SCHNEIDER - Helen. Devoted member of City Center's board, she will be missed by her fellow trustees, City Center staff, and all of the artists and audiences who have benefited from her largesse. Our deepest sympathies to her beloved husband, Irving, and to all their family. Raymond A. Lamontagne, Chair Elaine Malsin, Co-Chair Judith E. Daykin President and Executive Director  SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Service Guild (Auxiliary of LIJ) expresses profound sorrow on the passing of our life member Helen Schneider. Her many years of support and contribution to the Guild has been invaluable. Helen's wise counsel will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathy to her husband Irving and her family. Florence Hausner, Vivian Jager Co-Presidents of the Service Guild  SCHNEIDER-Helen. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Helen Schneider. A woman of elegance, principles and warmthbut most of all a dear family friend for many decades. Our sincerest sympathies to Irving, Mindy, Lynn and Bunny, and the entire Schneider family. She will be greatly missed. Marsha and Steve Braun Joyce and Richard Sims  SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Western Wall Heritage Foundation mourns the loss of a dedicated philanthropist. Her commitment to Jerusaleum and children is legendary. We extend our sympathies to her husband Irving, her children and grandchildren. Ingeborg Rennert, Chairperson Sandy Eisenstat, President Helen Mackler, Board Member Yogi Loshinsky, Executive VP  SCHNEIDER-Helen. You were our Founder, President and Mentor. Due to your leadership we are able to make a genuine difference in the lives of the children and their families at S.C.M.C.I. Your encouragement and guidance over the last 10 years motivated us to great deeds. We will never forget you. The Members of Yeladim Shelanu Foundation  SCHNEIDER-Helen. My loyal friend, I am diminished by your passing and truly bereft in your absence. Your loving caring friendship can never be replaced. Some people come into our lives and quickly go, some stay for a while, leave many footprints on our hearts and we are never ever the same. I will reach for the phone and I miss you already. Love Honey  SCHNEIDER-Helen. December 8, 2001. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Helen, the wife of our esteemed member, Irving Schneider, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Lowell Kwiat President  SCHNEIDER-Helen. With profound sorrow we note the passing of an extremely devoted wife, caring mother, loving grandmother. An extraordinary woman who was a philanthropic and active supporter of many organizations, both here and in Israel. Helen was an inspiration to all who knew her and especially to our family. Bernice and Jerry Lachs  SCHNEIDER-Helen. We will always remember Helen, an elegant lady, Irving's steadfast partner, adoring mother and grandmother, and passionate philanthropist for children in need. We send our love and sympathy to Mindy, Michael and the entire Schneider family. Linda, Harold, Joshua, Adam and Sam  SCHNEIDER-Helen. On behalf of the firm of Stern, Keiser, Panken & Wohl, I extend my deepest and heartfelt sympathies to Irving, Mindy, Lynn and the entire family. Helen had the unique ability to make our relationship a very personal one. She will be remembered. David Stern  SCHNEIDER-Helen. Our most sincere condolences to Irving and the entire Schneider family on the loss of Helen. Her charm, grace and wit will always be an inspiration for us and everyone whose lives she touched. Jean and Marshall Cohen  SCHNEIDER-Helen. Many people come into one's life, but there will only be one you in mine. You are irreplaceable and I will miss you forever. To Irving, my heart hurts for you, and the children and grandchildren. Claire Chasanoff  SCHNEIDER-Helen. A wonderful woman whom we loved and admired. We shall remember her always. Our heartfelt sympathy to Irving, Bunny, Mindy, Lynn and her grandchildren. The Entire Wohl Family  SCHNEIDER-Helen. Our beloved aunt. She shared the most important time in our lives. Our mother loved her dearly as do we. Her love and support never wavered, she will be sorely missed. Barrie and Susan Bazarsky  SCHNEIDER-Helen. We are heartbroken for the loss of such a special and beautiful lady. Our deepest sympathy to Irving, her children and her grandchildren. She will be sorely missed. Doris and Victor Shalom  SCHNEIDER-Helen. We are heartbroken over the loss of our beloved aunt Helen. She was a special lady, we will miss her love and wisdom. Ilene, Jon, David and Steve Halpern  SCHNEIDER-Helen. We will always remember your comforting hugs, helping us whenever we needed you, and always being there for grandparents visiting day. Love always, Katie and Jake  SCHNEIDER - Helen. Grandma Helen, you will be in my thoughts every day and in my dreams every night. I love you and miss you terribly. Leah  SCHNEIDER-Helen. For us, you will always be answering the door with big hugs and kisses or saying, ''One minute, I'm just finishing the gefilte fish.'' Love you always, Jeremiah and Max  SCHNEIDER-Helen. Our sincere condolences to the Irving Schneider family on their loss of a beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Julia Jacobs/Miller Advertising  SCHNEIDER-Helen. My profound condolences to Lynn & Mindy and their families on the passing of their mother; she was a great lady. Wendy Nirenberg  SCHNEIDER-Helen. My deepest condolences to the Schneider family for the loss of a great wife, mother, grandmother and friend. Anne Steinberg  SCHNEIDER-Helen. A beautiful classy lady. I loved you. Shirley Lesser
      