
        SQUADRON-Howard M. Howard was a man of commanding intellect and sweeping vision. He was a brilliant lawyer and negotiator, patron and lover of the arts, and a passionate, articulate and persusive spokesman for Israel and the Jewish people, civil rights and civil liberties, and the City he loved so much. He was equally conversant with international, domestic and Jewish affairs, art and literature, law and politics, and the latest sports results. The son of Jewish immigrant parents, he knew and advised Presidents, world leaders, members of Congress, governors, mayors, artists and art organizations, and countless others. Affiliated with the American Jewish Congress for over 40 years in capacities from staff attorney to President, he succeeded in all of those roles with a dazzling mix of ability, charisma, hard work and abiding loyalty. His commitment to AJCongress, and the Jewish community here, in Israel and world wide, was unshakable. It was to him we confidently turned first for principled and practical advice on matters as diverse as Israel, separation of church and state and religious liberty, freedom of speech, inter-group relations, and organizational concerns. He left an insightful and enduring imprint on those and countless other issues. AJCongress, and all with whom he shared his bold vision and considerable talents, are immeasurably the better for having benefited from his counsel. We, and they, are diminished by his passing. Our condolences to his wife Anne and his children Bill, Richard, Diane, Seth and Daniel. Jack Rosen, President Phil Baum, Executive Director Belle B. Faber, Assoc. Exec. Dir.
        SQUADRON-Howard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Howard Squadron, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation, who was deeply devoted to the Jewish community. Through his extraordinary generosity and dedication to humanitarian causes, he expressed an unwavering commitment to improving the lives of those less fortunate. Throughout his life, Mr. Squadron earned enormous respect and admiration worldwide for his leadership efforts on behalf of Israel and the Jewish people. His contributions will be felt for generations to come. Mr. Squadron will also be remembered for his enduring commitment to enhancing education and the cultural arts in New York City. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mr. Squadron's wife, Anne; to his son, Bill & his wife, Debra; to his son, Richard & his wife, Theodosia; to his daughter, Diane Squadron Shea & her husband, Tom; to his sons Seth & Daniel; to his eight grandchildren; & to his entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        SQUADRON-Howard. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of Howard M. Squadron, a distinguished attorney and influential civic and Jewish communal leader. Mr. Squadron, a former member of the Board of Directors of Yeshiva University's Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law established Cardozo's Squadron Program in Law, Media, and Society and played a significant role in strengthening the law school. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Anne, his brother, Arthur; and his five children, Bill, Richard, Diane, Seth, Daniel, and eight grandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Earle I. Mack, Chairman CSL Board of Directors David Rudenstine, Dean
        SQUADRON-Howard M. The members of the Board of Directors of the Abraham Fund are deeply saddened by the passing of their longtime supporter and founding Board Member. Howard was instrumental in advancing the Abraham Fund's work of promoting coexistence between Jewish and Arab citizens of Israel. Howard will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to Anne and to Howard's entire family. Alan B. Slifka, Chairman Judy Eigen Sarna, President Dan Pattir, Executive V.P. Barbara Merson, V.P. Members of the Board of Directors
        SQUADRON-Howard M. The Jewish Community Relations Council sorrowfully mourns the passing of our former Board member and friend, Howard M. Squadron, whose devotion to Jewish life and the Bill of Rights will long be remembered. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ezra G. Levin, President Michael S. Miller, Executive V.P.
        SQUADRON-Howard M. All of the Ellenoff family mourns the loss of Howard and extend our heartfelt condolences to the Squadron family. With respect and pride, we remember Howard's dedication, determination and ability in building a professional services firm of enviable reputation and integrity. The Ellenoff family
        SQUADRON-Howard. A consummate world leader in many causes for peace, humanity, all races, religions; but above all, a spokesman for American Jewry; he should be remembered, quoted, and provide an inspiration to all people striving to make a better world. Maurice S. Paprin, Chairman Fund for New Priorities
        SQUADRON-Howard. Always the absolute gentleman; a brilliant lawyer and a very dear friend; a giant in various aspects of community work. Our hearts are filled with sadness for Anne and the entire Squadron family. Irving Schneider and Family
      