
        McGOVERN-Joseph W., 92. On December 19, 2001. The only son of Philip and Jane Fahy McGovern. Predeceased by his dear wife Marie, sons Philip and Joseph Raymond. Survived by one daughter Marie Therese Melillo, three sons Raymond, Joseph and Lawrence, twenty two grandchildren and twelve great grandchildren. Mass of the Resurrection, Monday 9AM, Fordham University Chapel, Bronx, NY. Visiting Saturday and Sunday, 2-4 and 7-9PM, EdwardsDowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Avenue, (exit 17 Saw Mill) Dobbs Ferry, NY. Memorials to Calvary Hospital or Fordham University appreciated.
        MCGOVERN-Joseph W. On behalf of the board of directors, administration and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc., we mourn the passing of our past chairman of the board of directors and dear friend. Joseph McGovern served on the hospital board of directors from 1975-1993, 14 of those years as chairman. He also gave generously of his time as chairman of the executive, nominating, compensation and law committees of the hospital board. Through his leadership and guidance, Joe supported the development and growth of Calvary Hospital's program of care. As an individual of extraordinary quality of character, he served the hospital board with distinction, acting as a wise counselor and a loyal advocate on behalf of the patients and staff of the hospital. Although Joseph McGovern retired from Calvary's board of directors, he remained a beloved member of the Calvary Family and we will miss him. We extend our deepest sympathy to his children and his grandchildren. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., M.D., Chairman, Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President, Calvary Hospital Michael J. Brescia, M.D., Executive Medical Director James E. Cimino, M.D., Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute Richard J. Kutilek, Chief Operating Officer
        McGOVERN-Joseph W. The Board of Directors and Administration of the Calvary Fund are deeply saddened by the passing of our longtime friend Joseph W. McGovern, former Chairman of the Calvary Hospital Board of Directors. His leadership and dedication to the Mission of Calvary Hospital inspired all who had the privilege of knowing him. Joe was a true humanitarian, he gave of himself, his time, his expertise, his spirituality and his wisdom. We extend our condolences to his children and grandchildren. Dennis E. Berberich, Chairman Calvary Fund Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President Calvary Fund Vincent J. Spinelli, Exec V.P. Calvary Fund Roy Clary, Sr Dir of Development
        McGOVERN-Joseph W. The Socity of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Joseph W. McGovern a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian
      