
        SCHAAP-Dick. Journalist and sportscaster died Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He is survived by his wife Trish, his six children Renee, Michelle, Jeremy, Joanna, Kari and David and five grandchildren. Although remembered by the public for his journalism and broadcast career, his family will remember and cherish his love for his wonderful wife Trish, his family, endless friends and love of life and all it offered him. He flashed before our eyes and he will be missed. A private family service is planned for Sunday morning, December 23, at Riverside Chapel in Manhattan. A memorial service will be held in January at a time to be announced. In lieu of flowers and in honor of Dick's dedication to the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation, Gilda's Club, ALS and the Hank Greenberg Foundation, the family asks that donations be sent to any one of these organizations.
        SCHAAP-Dick. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Greater New York Chapter, mourn the tragic loss of our beloved friend and Board member, Dick Schaap. Dick was committed to the Foundation's mission to provide education and support and to find the medical cure for Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. With his devoted wife Trish and son Jeremy, he established the Dick Schaap Annual Golf and Tennis Classic which raised substantial funds over the past five years for the Foundation's research and education initiatives. Whether serving as master of ceremonies at our annual dinner or as chair of his golf event, Dick was a thoughtful and gracious friend with a heart of gold. Dick's love of life, love of family and passion for helping others has left an indelible memory on all who had the privilege of knowing him. We will miss his warmth, keen sense of humor and generous spirit. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Trish and the family. We hope that our thoughts and prayers will provide comfort and that beautiful memories of him will forever sustain them. Suzanne & Irwin M. Rosenthal Shelby & William D. Modell CCFA National Co-Founders Nancy Brown Chapter President Judith Saphir Chairperson of the Board Joan Telley Executive Director
        SCHAAP-Dick. We at Parade magazine mourn the loss of our sports editor and dear friend, Dick Schaap. For 20 years he entertained our readers with his knowledge of and passion for the world of sports and its players. A gifted storyteller, Schaap leaves behind an important and varied body of work that spans a long and distinguished career in broadcasting and journalism. We will miss his good nature and quick wit. Our deepest sympathies go to his wife, Trish, and the Schaap family. Walter Anderson, Publisher
        SCHAAP-Dick. The ALS Association, Greater New York Chapter, mourns the loss of our very good friend and supporter. He was a tireless and generous worker on behalf of our organization in the fight against Lou Gehrig's disease, and one of the founding partners in our Lou Gehrig Sports Awards Benefit. He will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Alan Griffith, Chairman John L. Ernst, Chair Emeritus Dorine Gordon, President Lauri Novick, Exec. Director
        SCHAAP-Dick. Honorary Director, renaissance man, people person and all around great guy. Condolences to Trish and the rest of the Schaap family. The Board and staff of Gilda's Club New York City
        SCHAAP-Dick. Paul and Shelley Lindenauer mourn the loss of Dick, a man of generous heart. Our condolences to Trish, Jeremy and family. May he rest in peace.
      