
        COLETTA-Harold R. Violist extraordinaire and bon vivant was born in the Bronx on January 25, 1917, and died in NYC on November 29, 2001. His parents emigrated from Italy with their families; his from Fondi, hers from Sorano in the early 1900's. Harold became interested in the violin at an early age. In his late teens he switched to the viola, which suited him perfectly because of his impressive stature of 6'1'' with broad shoulders and large hands. He soon began what was to be a long and illustrious career, which spanned over 60 years. This began with the Bridgeport W.P.A. Symphony where he spent his free time working on the classical repetoire. This diligence paid off, and he was accepted into the National Youth Orchestra conducted by Leopold Strakowski, which toured South America twice. He studied at Juilliard for a short time, but his study with Raphael Bronstein was, he felt, more valuable. Harold played in The New York Philharmonic and then The NBC Orchestra for nin years under the baton of Arturo Toscanini. He performed in Carnegie Hall with Heifetz and Piatigorsky as part of a sextet. He played in the Casals Festival in Puerto Rico a number of times. His tours consisted of the American String Quartet, solo tour of Europe in the 1960's, and the final tour in 1987 with Frank Sinatra. His studio career in radio/TV days was with Sinatra, Como and Crosby to mention a few. He was part of many soundtracks for recordings, movies and commercials, which continued up until his death. Harold's passion for music, Italy and life, was evident to all who knew and loved him. A biography in progress, being written by a student/colleague should be released in the very near future. Harold is survived by his wife, Mary (Lewis), his brother Paolo, his son Michael Bradley Albert (Diane), two daughters, Suzanne Hallie (Seth) Glasser, and Hallie Adrienne Coletta, five grandchildren, Jennifer and Adam Colletta, and Alex, Anna, and Nick Glasser. There was no services or visitation. A special musical memorial tribute is planned for Spring. For information contact Joseph W. Sorce F.H., Inc.; 845358-4433.
      