
        MUSHER-Albert. On December 14, 2001, age 97. Beloved husband of the late Willma. Loving father of Betsy M. Boruchoff, Jonathan E. Musher and Leo Boruchoff. Dear grandfather of Nancy Orgel, Barbara Winer, Louis, Caroline, Noah, Lucas and Jeremy Musher. Great-grandfather of Jeffrey, Hilary and Alison Winer and Evan and Zoey Orgel. Cherished friend of Lorraine Albert. Service Sunday 1:00 PM at ''the Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        MUSHER-Albert. The Faculty, Administration, Advisory Council, Alumni Association and students of the Columbia University School of Social Work note with sadness the death of Albert Musher on December 13, 2001, in New York City at the age of 97. A close friend and benefactor of the School, he was a humanitarian who carried out in practice his deeply held philisophical and religious beliefs through generous benefactions to society. In 1994, he established the Willma and Albert Musher Chair Professorship for Life Betterment through Science and Technology at the School of Social Work. Concurrently, the Willma and Albert Musher Program for Life Betterment Through the Use of Science and Technology was founded at Columbia University. In 1997, he created the Willma and Albert Musher Fellowship for Studies in International Social Welfare. In 1999, the Willma and Albert Musher Collection of books and writings became an integral component of the School of Social Work Library. Mr. Musher will be long remembered at Columbia University for his gracious and kindly nature, as well as for his advancement of social work ideals, values and practice. Sincerest condolences are extended to his children, Jonathan Musher and Betsy Boruchoff, to Leo Boruchoff and Ruth Musher, who helped implement his programs at Columbia University, and to all the other members of the family. Dr. Sheila B. Kamerman Interim Dean Ronald A. Feldman Dean Emeritus Edward J. Mullen, Willma and Albert Musher Professor Donna Rosenthal Advisory Council Chair MaryEllen Bigham Alumni Association President Gretchen Borges, Director of the Musher Program
        MUSHER-Albert. We shall greatly miss our wise and generous friend, who so inspired us with his deeply held faith in the possibilities that lie within all of humankind, his enduring belief in the value of rational thought to help us know happiness, and his passionate prayers for peace throughout the world. He was the most thoughtful of friends to The Columbia University School of Social Work. We are comforted by the knowledge that the Professorship he endowed and the programs he began will continue always to inspire social workers to believe in the possibility of peace within all of us, amongst all families, and between all nations. We offer our heartfelt condolences to all of his grieving family. Edward J. Mullen The Willma and Albert Musher Professor Gretchen Borges Director of the Musher Program Columbia Univ Schl Social Work
        MUSHER-Albert. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Albert Musher our deepest sympathies on the occasion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who loved him be comforted. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
      