
        LOEB-Louise Steinhart. Died on Saturday, December 1, 2001, at age 86. Widow of Henry A. Loeb (who died in 1998). Survived by her children Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin, her seven grandchildren, her 14 great-grandchildren. Interment is private. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to the Child Development Center of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, 120 West 57 Street, New York, New York 10019, attn: Jane Berenbein; or to Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, attn: Alvin Teirstein, M.D., Director of Richenthal Institute.
        LOEB-Louise Steinhardt. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital mourn the passing of Louise Steinhardt Loeb, beloved wife of the late Henry A. Loeb, a prominent philanthropist, who served on the Mount Sinai Boards of Trustees with dedication and distinction for 45 years. Henry and Louise Loeb's commitment to Mount Sinai was memorable, and included important support of numerous programs in patient care, research and medical education. Mrs. Loeb will be remembered fondly, and with gratitude, for her loyalty and thoughtful generosity. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her daughters, Betty Levin, wife of our esteemed Trustee John A. Levin, and Jean Troubh, and the entire Loeb family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman The Mount Sinai Medical Center Nathan Kase, Interim President and CEO, The Mount Sinai Medical Center and Interim Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Barry R. Freedman, President and CEO, The Mount Sinai Hospital
        LOEB-Louise S. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Louise Loeb. A cherished friend and UJA-Federation leader, Mrs. Loeb served as a trustee and executive committee member of Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, a UJA-Federation beneficiary. Her legacy lives on through the examplary activities of her daughters, Jean Troubh, who serves as JBFCS president-elect, and Betty Levin, who has served on the UJA-Federation Board of Directors. We extend our deepest sympathies to Jean and her husband, Raymond; Betty and her husband, John; her grandchildren and greatgrandchildren; and to the entire Loeb family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Executive Vice President & CEO
        LOEB-Louise S. New School University mourns the passing of Louise S. Loeb, a dear friend to the New School and beloved mother of Trustee Betty Levin. A steadfast champion for the rights of children, Louise was the wife of the late Henry A. Loeb, Trustee and former Chairman of the Board at New School University. The Loebs' extraordinary devotion to the New School is evinced by the Henry A. and Louise Loeb Residence Hall, the Henry A. and Louise Loeb Chair of Political and Social Science at the Graduate Faculty and the Henry A. and Louise Loeb Chair of Fine Arts at Parsons School of Design. Our thoughts are with all of Louise's cherished family and her many friends. Bob Kerrey, President John L. Tishman Chairman of the Board New School University
        LOEB-Louise. The Board and Staff of the Center for Educational Innovation-Public Education Association (CEI-PEA) note with sorrow the death of Louise Loeb. She was a longtime Board Member & general supporter of the Public Education Association and was devoted to the public school children of New York City. We extend our condolences to her children Betty and John Levin and Raymond and Jean Troubh, and her grandson David Levin, Principal of Kipp Academy in the South Bronx, which the Center for Educational Innovation helped to establish.
        LOEB-Louise. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum mourn the loss of Louise Loeb, benefactor to the Museum and mother of our devoted Trustee Betty Levin, and Museum Council member Jean Troubh. Our thoughts are with them and their families and we send our heartfelt condolences. Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Joan Rosenbaum, Helen Goldsmith Menschel Dir
        Correction:  December 8, 2001, Saturday  An obituary of the New York philanthropist Louise Steinhart Loeb on Tuesday misstated the given name of her late husband. He was Henry A. Loeb, not John.
      