
        LOEB-Louise Steinhart. Died Saturday, December 1, 2001, at age 86. Widow of Henry A. Loeb (who died in 1998). Survived by her children Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin, her seven grandchildren, her 14 great-grandchildren. Interment is private. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to the Child Development Center of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, 120 West 57 Street, NY, NY 10019, attn: Jane Berenbein; or to Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, attn: Alvin Teirstein, M.D., Director of Richenthal Institute.
        LOEB-Louise S. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with sadness the death of Louise Loeb, beloved mother of Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin. Louise was responsible as president of the Child Development Center for its merger in 1962 with the Jewish Board of Guardians (a predecessor agency to JBFCS). Thanks to Louise and Henry's continued involvement and generosity for more than four decades, CDC remains a beacon in the treatment of emotionally disturbed children. Louise brought her intelligence and strong convictions into her work as a JBFCS trustee for many years. Her legacy at the agency has been proudly continued by Jean who is president-elect, chair of the Executive Committee and founding chair of the Advisory Committee on Family Violence. Jean's daughters Beth Doyle and Lee Belsky have also followed in their grandmother's footsteps as involved JBFCS leaders. This family's commitment to community and to bettering the lives of New Yorkers and all people in need will serve as a lasting tribute to Louise. Our condolences to the entire family. Seymour R. Askin, Jr. Chairman of the Board Joseph S. Kaplan President Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive Vice President and CEO
        LOEB-Louise S. The Divisional Committee and staff of the JBFCS Child Development Center note with sorrow the death of Louise Loeb. As president and later chair of the Child Development Center when it merged with the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, Louise well understood the need for children to receive the highest quality services at a very young age to avoid greater problems in the future. She and Henry remained dedicated and generous supporters of this work and the therapeutic nursery school of CDC proudly bears their name. Her legacy lives on in the devotion of her daughter Jean, JBFCS president-elect and granddaughter Beth Doyle, a dedicated member of the CDC Divisional Committee. Our condolences to the entire family. Renee Ward, Chairperson, CDC Divisional Committee Marian Davidson-Amodeo Director, CDC Alice K. Frankel, M.D. Director Emerita, CDC
      