
        MOORE-James Edward, 70. A New York commodities trader who played a major role in emergency medical services in his community and the state, died Wednesday at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, New York City. Mr. Moore was a commodities futures trader with the New York Commodities Exchange, or COMEX and New York Mercantile Exchange, or NYMEX, for 50 years. Later in life he developed a second career, born of his love for boating, as owner of Brown's Point Marina in Keyport. But it was in a volunteer capacity that he may have affected the most lives during his years of service as an emergency medical technician and EMT trainer in Aberdeen. As an EMT trainer, Mr. Moore helped establish the EMT standard among first aid squads throughout the state, said Brian Gelburd, a former captain of the South Aberdeen EMS and longtime friend of Mr. Moore. ''He was instrumental in establishing the program in the state,'' Gelburd said. ''He was a natural leader, he would get on these crusades.'' Mr. Moore joined Matawan Township First Aid (later Aberdeen Township) in 1971. In 1972, he became an EMT and joined the South Matawan Township First Aid Squad (later South Aberdeen). He was a life member of South Aberdeen EMS, served several terms as captain, president and various other offices. He answered thousands of EMS calls, and also served as state testing coordinator for the National Registry of EMTs. After he moved away from Aberdeen, he remained active with the squad as a trainer and even went on calls when he was in the area, Gelburd said. In 1973, Mr. Moore started one of the earliest, if not the earliest EMT training programs for the state Department of Health. He remained coordinator of the Bayshore Area EMT course, one of the longest running programs in the state. He helped establish the pilot program for crash injury management/first responder for the State Police Academy, Sea Girt, which remains part of basic training in the academy. He was extrication training instructor and team captain for the state, and instrumental in bringing the first ''jaws of life'' rescue tool into service in Monmouth County. One of the earliest CPR instructor trainers, he coordinated one of the earliest testing sites at Bayshore Community Hospital, Holmdel. Mr. Moore began his trading career in 1960 as clerk for Anderson, Clayton & Fleming, and later became customers' manager for Bache & Co./Prudential Securities. He then joined Harmon Lichtenstein & Co., the oldest firm on the COMEX. He became a member of COMEX in 1965; NYMEX in 1966; and New York Cotton Exchange (New York Board of Trade) in 1977. He was a licensed broker for National Futures Association; and a member of Copper Club and various trade associations. He was one of the longest-serving members of COMEX. In addition to his commodities work, Mr. Moore was owner and operator of Brown's Point Marina, Keyport, for the past 20 years. He was drawn to the marina business because of his avid interest in boating. Largely through the efforts of his friend Paul Gasior, he acquired the marina in the late 1970s. Brown's Point Marina is one of the most active dealers for Suzuki Marine in the country. Mr. Moore enjoyed nothing more than his twicea-year boat trips to his home in Florida with Gasior, family and other friends. He enjoyed boating so much that he obtained his 200ton boating license through the Coast Guard, upgraded from 100ton. At the time of the World Trade Center disaster, Mr. Moore was staying at his New York apartment near the Trade Center, confined to bed because of his illness. His marina friends, especially Gasior, and Old Bridge Police Chief Jerry Polumbo and George Jensen, rescued him from the building after the Twin Towers' collapse. The building was not damaged, but was unlivable because of the debris from the collapse. In addition to his other pursuits, Mr. Moore served in the National Guard. He graduated from Xavier High School in New York City in 1950, but before that, in 1946, he lied about his age and enlisted in the New York National Guard. He first served in the 102nd Medical Battalion and later was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Medical Corps, 107th Combat Team. He then was battery commander of Battery D955, 2nd Corps; artillery commander of Company D, 106th Infantry; and retired as a captain in the Army Reserve. He was a communicant of St. Clement's Roman Catholic Church, Matawan, and a member of the Knights of Columbus. He moved from Brooklyn to Aberdeen in December 1967. He became active in Little League, Pop Warner and other community organizations. He was a third-degree member of the Knights of Columbus, Cardinal Newman Council, Aberdeen. He received many community service awards including the Elks Club Man of the Year. ''Anyone who ever met Jim will never forget him,'' his family said. ''He left a lasting impression with his charm and sense of humor. Above all, he will be remembered as one of the most generous and giving men in the world. Even those closest to him will never know the extent of his giving and kindness, which is the way he wanted it.'' He was predeceased by two sons, James E. Moore, Jr., in 1975; and Daniel J. Moore, in 1990; a brother, John Moore, in 1997; and a sister, Florence Hunter, in 1961. Surviving are his wife, Anne Kristin Moore of Bainbridge Island, Wash; two daughters, Theresa Olsen of Bainbridge Island, Wash; and Martha MooreStoll of Charlottesville, Va.; a sister, Joan Riordan of Atlanta; a grandson, Joshua Andrew Olsen; and three grand-daughters, Madeline Anne Olsen, Veronica Jae Moore-Stoll, and Isabelle Marie Moore-Stoll. Visiting hours will be from 7 to 9 P.M., Saturday, and 2 to 4 P.M. and 7 to 9 P.M. Sunday at Day Funeral Home, 361 Maple Place, Keyport. A Funeral Mass will be offered 11 A.M. Monday at St. Clement's Church, Matawan. Cremation will be private. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Box E, 1275 York Ave, New York, NY 10021.
      