
        LEUNG-Ching H., 66, of Mahwah, NJ died suddenly of heart complications on December 1, 2001. Beloved husband of almost 36 years to Clara (Wong). Loving father of Peter of Singpore, Joseph of NYC and Thomas of Boston. Devoted brother of Ching Por Leung, Ching Cham Leung, Ching Sang Leung, Ching Ho Leung and Ivy Yuen. For eleven years, Ching inspired hundreds of students to practice and love the art of Tai Chi Chuan at the Ramsey and Midland Park Community Schools. He was a member of the Church of the Presentation in Upper Saddle River, NJ. He was also an alumnus of the Tai Chi Chuan Club of NY and a recent participant in the Garden Club of Manhattan. Mr. Leung was a member of the Royal Institute of Structural Engineers of London, UK and the Professional Engineers Society of NY and NJ. He was an honors graduate of the National University of Taiwan where he received his bachelor's degree in engineering. He also earned a master's degree in applied science from the University of Toronto and a master's in civil engineering from the University of Birmingham, UK. In 1967, he designed Hong Kong's first Cross Harbor Tunnel as well as Hong Kong's longest suspension bridge. He immigrated to the US in 1971 and joined DeLeuw Cather Engineering where he assisted with the design of the 2nd Avenue Subway Project in Manhattan. For the past twenty years, Ching was Senior Structural Engineer at STV Group in New York. At STV, he was in the design team of projects such as the Light Rail System at JFK International Airport, the Eastside Access project, and the new West Point Military Academy Library and Football Stadium. Friends and family will be received on Thursday, December 6th from 2-4 and 79 PM at Van Emburgh-Sneider Funeral Home, 109 Darlington Avenue, Ramsey, NJ. A Funeral Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated on Friday, December 7th at 10 AM at the Church of the Presentation, 271 W. Saddle River Rd., Upper Saddle River, NJ 07458. Interment at Ascension Cemetery, Monsey, NY. The family can be reached at 201-818-9888. For information, contact the Van Emburgh-Sneider Funeral Home, 109 Darlington Avenue, Ramsey, NJ 07446. For directions, contact 201327-0032.
      