
        McCOOEY-Herbert J. Of Jupiter, FL, Westhampton Beach, NY, and formerly of Manhasset, NY, on December 21, 2001. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on July 6, 1926, he was the son of Herbert and Elizabeth (Larney) McCooey. Grandson of the late John H. McCooey, political leader of Brooklyn for twenty-five years. Graduate of Brooklyn Prep High School and the College of the Holy Cross, Class of 1949. Mr. McCooey served as a signalman in the United States Navy during World War II. He had a long and distinguished career on Wall Street where he was a member and former Governor of the New York Stock Exchange. He was the Executive Vice President of Robb, Peck & McCooey Specialist firm until his retirement in 1984. Mr. McCooey served as a trustee of St. Mary's Parish in Manhasset where he was a driving force and ardent supporter of the CYO program. Knight of Malta as well as a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. Mr. McCooey sat on various Boards including the Long Island Savings Bank, Plandome Country Club, Westhampton Country Club and La Ronde Beach Club. Mr. McCooey is survived by his wife Dolores (nee) McCarthy, brothers John of New York City and Richard of Washington, DC, and predeceased by Robert of Rye, NY. Loving father of Bert Jr. (Lori), Sean (Jane), Bess (Tom), Patrick, Maureen (Carter), Dan (Suzanne) and Dee. Proud grandfather of Bert III, Sara, Matt, Bryan, Kellen, Brendan, Shareen, Cassie, Regan, Julie, Luke, Dolores, Mae, Danny, and Jack and many nieces and nephews. Bert will be remembered for his vitality of spirit, strength of character and extraordinary capacity for family and friends. Family will receive friends at Fairchild Funeral Home, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, NY, on Wednesday from 2-5 PM, and 7-9 PM. On Thursday, family will receive friends from 3-6 PM, in St. Mary's Church, 1300 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, immediately followed by a Mass of Christian Burial. Interment private on Friday. In lieu of flowers donations should be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
        McCOOEY-Herbert J. A loving father, husband and friend to all who were touched by his life. He was one of the greatest and will be missed by so many. Warm and happy memories of Burt, sharing laughter to hold on to. Our deepest sympathy and prayers to the entire McCooey family. Love you Uncle Burt. XOXO. Love goddaughter, Traci
      