
        SQUADRON-Howard M. The Board of Trustees and staff of City Center express great sadness at the passing of our Chairman of 23 years-the ''father'' of City Center. His love for this theater, its many and diverse artists and the staff and the audiences who support them was unsurpassed and continuous. Howard saved City Center in the 1970's and worked tirelessly to assure both the survival and success of this landmark cultural institution. Thanks to Howard Squadron, City Center thrives today. His relationship with City Center began in his teens when he joined others in the top balcony to view and appreciate performances, and it never wavered as he ascended to the Chairmanship later in life. His devoted stewardship guaranteed a home for the New York City based dance companies such as, The Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, Paul Taylor Dance Company, Arthur Mitchell's Dance Theatre of Harlem, American Ballet Theatre and others. City Center Encores! Great American Musicals in Concert was born during his leadership. Though Howard was involved in many other worthy and prestigious causes and organizations, he was always and unfailingly ''there'' for City Center. Our sympathy and love to Anne and all of the family. Howard will be greatly missed by all of us connected with the theater and will never be forgotten. Raymond A. Lamontagne, Chair, Board of Trustees, City Center Elaine Malsin, Co-Chair, Board of Trustees, City Center Judith E. Daykin, President and Executive Director, City Center
        SQUADRON-Howard M. The members of the Board and the staff of Medical Development for Israel, Inc. deeply mourn the passing of a great friend and devoted Board member, Howard M. Squadron. Mr. Squadron was a Founding Chairman of the Board of Directors of Medical Development for Israel, Inc. (MDI), lending his prominence and devoting his energy to recruit a group of leaders to join in an extraordinary vision of Helen and Irving Schneider. This vision resulted in the establishment of Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel (SCMCI). Mr. Squadron had one of the sharpest minds and keenest intellects which he used to further the cause of the Jewish people. Over the years, Mr. Squadron remained actively involved with MDI. His death leaves a huge void not only with MDI and SCMCI, but also with public service agencies, institutions of higher learning, political and legislation organizations both in the United States and Israel. MDI and SCMCI extend their heartfelt condolences to his wife Anne, his children Bill, Diane, Richard, Seth and Daniel, and to his grandchildren. H. Irwin Levy, Chairman Rubin S. Leibowitz, President Amb. Uri Bar-Ner, Vice President, MDI Dr. Itamar Offer, Acting Director SCMCI
        SQUADRON-Howard. The founders and the first generation of trustees and staff of the International Center of Photography are deeply saddened by the passing of our founding president Howard Squadron who guided this institution from its conception to the full realization of its establishment as New York City's first museum and museum school of photography. Howard's brilliance and enthusiasm for the vision that was to become ICP shown through the many meetings he oversaw and strategies he helped devise to organize, incorporate, found and ensure the permanence of the fledgling institution. His dedication, commitment and wise counsel throughout the succeeding years were always graciously given. Those who knew how important his role had been felt continuous gratitude in his belief in us and the friendship he continued to proffer as we grew. ICP feels a great loss and extends deeply felt sympathies to Anne and to Howard's entire family. Cornell Capa, Founding Director Rita Hillman, Honorary Chair Karl Katz, Founding Trustee Willis Hartshorn, Director
        SQUADRON-Howard. It is a long and sad day for the photographers and staff of Magnum Photos and the worldwide circle of friends of Magnum to contemplate a world without Howard. From the first day and for more than fifty years he was our lawyer, our spiritual guide, our moral compass. He led us to be better than we knew how to be. For more than five decades he presided over meetings of all our cantankerous members and steered us through the shoals of conflicting interests. At the end of the day when he summarized the results we appeared to be almost rational. We owe him for our existence and for much of our elan. The world of photography owes him for his contributions to the cause of photographer's rights and for his seminal role in the establishment of the International Center of Photography. We will all have to carry on without him but it is not going to be as easy or joyful.
        SQUADRON-Howard. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of our dear friend and esteemed past-chairman, Howard Squadron. Howard was an extraordinary leader whose deep commitment to America, Israel and world Jewry were reflected in the many leadership positions he held and his remarkable contributions. We extend our condolences to his wife Ann and family, and pray that they will be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
      