
        HENKIND-Sol. On December 5, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn. Loving father of Lewis and Ellie. Cherished and devoted grandfather of Hilary, Steven, Shimon, Adam, Rain and Heidi. Services today, 10 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. He lived a righteous and generous life.
        HENKIND-Sol. The President, Board of Trustees and the entire Montefiore Medical Center community mourn the loss of our dear friend and benefactor Sol Henkind. Affectionately known throughout the medical center as Uncle Sol, his special interest in Montefiore started when his nephew, Paul Henkind, MD, a world-reknowned ophthalmologist and glaucoma specialist, became chairman of the Department of Ophthalmology. In 1975, through a very generous gift, he and his beloved wife, Evelyn, who died a year ago, established a research endowment and helped facilitate the first unified Department of Ophthalmology at Montefiore and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine. A decade later, Sol and Evelyn Henkind were major contributors to the Paul Henkind Memorial Fund after the untimely death of their nephew. In honor of their outstanding generosity, Montefiore dedicated the Sol and Evelyn Henkind Eye Institute in 1992. It is now located in the medical center's Jerome L. and Dawn Greene Medical Arts Pavilion. Mr. Henkind also gave of his time as an active volunteer for the Jewish Braille Institute, where he made 360 recordings of Yiddish tales and translated more than 300 stories and other works from Yiddish to English. Born in Russia, he started his long business career selling dungarees on the Lower East Side and achieved his major success in real estate development. At Montefiore, he was a trusted business advisor to the Opthalmology Department. His extraordinary gifts to us were often surprises and always blessings. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his son, Lewis, a committed member of Montefiore's Board of Trustees; to his daughter, Dr. Ellie Henkind Katz, and to their entire family. We will miss Uncle Sol's wit, wisdom and warmth. Spencer Foreman, MD, President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Montefiore Medical Center
        HENKIND-Sol. The Jewish Braille Institute of America mourns the passing of Sol Henkind who, together with his late wife Evelyn, advanced important work on behalf of the Jewish blind and visually impaired over nearly four decades. A man of great generosity, Sol also recorded many Yiddish Talking Books that have circulated worldwide so that those served by our agency have had access to this important part of Jewish tradition. To his children, Dr. Ellie Katz and Lewis Henkind and their families, we offer our deepest condolences. Barbara B. Friedman, President Dr. Ellen Isler Executive Vice President
        HENKIND-Sol. The Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences of The Albert Einstein College of Medicine and The Montefiore Medical Center, mourn the loss of our friend and benefactor. His and his late wife, Evelyn's steadfast support gave rise to the Sol and Evelyn Henkind Eye Institute at Montefiore, a renowned Center for the training of medical students and physicians, and for patient care. We shall miss his wit, enthusiasm and sage advice. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. All Associates of The Dept. of Ophthalmology, Montefiore Medical Center
        HENKIND-Sol. We cherish the memory of the Senior Partner and founding member of Essex Plaza, et al, Sol Henkind. He is remembered for the joy and happiness that he brought with him wherever he went. Sol is remembered for the wisdom and wit that he happily shared with all of us. Sol personified the American Dream and lived it with joy and happiness with his beloved Evelyn at his side. He was a generous man who shared his knowledge and good fortune with all. We admired Sol because he was a dreamer that lived his dream and shared it with all. J. Kenneth Pagano, Essex Plaza Management and Staff
        HENKIND-Sol. The Jewish Theological Seminary Community mourns the death of Sol Henkind, a lifelong philanthropist whose passion for Jewish learning made possible the creation of JTS's Saul Lieberman Institute for Talmudic Research. Predeceased by his wife of fifty-nine years, Evelyn, a JTS Board Member, he is survived by a daughter, Ellie Henkind Katz and son-in-law, Michael Katz of Jerusalem; a son, Lewis and daughter-in-law Denise of Greenwich; and six grandchildren. May his memory be for blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Chairman
        HENKIND-Sol. The partners and the families of Engel Burman Senior Housing wish to extend our condolences to Lewis and Ellie and their respective family members on the passing of Sol Henkind. Sol will always be remembered as a kind, witty, classic and dapper individual, whose stories and anecdotes we will never forget. Sydney and Sunny Engel Jan Burman and Renee Michael and Cathy Weiss and Steven and Cathy Krieger
        HENKIND-Sol. It is with profound sorrow that we note the passing of our good friend and partner, Sol Henkind. We will miss the spontaneity he brought to life as well as the wisdom he imparted to all of us. His generosity and contributions to mankind are unparalleled. May God bless him and his family. Sydney and Sunny Engel Michael and Cathy Weiss
        HENKIND-Sol. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Sol Henkind, and extend to the members of his family our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary
        HENKIND-Sol. The office staff of The Engel Group offers its sincere condolences to the family of Sol Henkind upon his passing. We deeply respected Mr. Henkind's achievements and wit and always enjoyed his presence in our office. Evelyn, Jeanette, Joan, Lorraine, Angela, Gwen and Val
        HENKIND-Sol. To Lewis and Denise, Ellie and Michael, and family, Sol will always loom large in our eyes. Sharon and Ron Burde.
      