
        MURPHY-Christopher J. A 34 year resident of Scarsdale, NY. Chris, 41 years old, died suddenly on December 11, 2001 of the complications of juvenile diabetes. He was born in Old Bridge, NJ on September 18, 1960. Chris was a graduate of Seely Place School and Edgemont High School in Scarsdale and went on to earn his Bachelor of Arts Degree in Business Management from Syracuse University in 1982. He pursued an active career in investment and commercial banking and at the time he left us he was a shareholder, Director and Executive of Country Bank, New York, NY, in which the Murphy family has a majority interest. Chris was a warrior in the battle to find a cure for juvenile diabetes which he contacted at the age of six. He was a member of the Board of Directors of the New York Chapter of Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International. In that regard he was a member of the real estate committee at the annual ''Walk For a Cure'' and was an active participant with his family in the development of the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, ll50 St. Nicholas Avenue at 168th Street, Manhattan. Chris is survived by his parents Catherine Jo Ann and Joseph Michael Murphy, in addition to his brother Joseph M. Jr., his sisters, Carolyn and Mary Murphy and Patricia MacGillivray. He was adored by his nephews, Ryan and Sean MacGillivray, Brent Murphy, Joseph Michael III and Brian Murphy and his nieces, Kelly MacGillivray and Cailin Murphy. His brothers-in-law, Glen MacGillivray and Robert Murphy and sister-in-law Michele Murphy will sadly miss him. Visitation at Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Avenue, Scarsdale, NY, Thursday and Friday, December 13th and 14th from 2 to 4 and 7 to 9 PM. Mass of a Christian Burial will be celebrated at Immaculate Heart of Mary Church, Post Road (Route 22) at Carman Road, Scarsdale at 10:45 AM Saturday, December 15th. Interment to follow at Ferncliff Cemetery, Secor Road, Hartsdale, New York. In lieu of flowers, friends are asked to make a donation to either Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International or the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center.
        MURPHY-Christopher J. The faculty of Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons and the members of the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center deeply mourn the untimely loss of Chris Murphy, a dear friend and valued member of our Diabetes Advisory Committee. Stricken early in life with Type 1 diabetes, he inspired us and others with his courageous and determined struggle. While contending with his own diabetes, Chris worked tirelessly and valiantly with his family toward improving care and finding a cure for all people with the disease. We extend our deepest sympathies to Joseph and JoAnn Murphy, Catherine Murphy and to his other family members. Robin Goland, M.D. and and Rudy Leibel, M.D., Co-Directors of the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center Gerald Fischbach, M.D., Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine
      