
        ENGLISH-Louis Carroll, M.D. (Woody). Of New York, New York and North Truro, Massachusetts, December 4, 2001, at age 86. He was a psychoanalyst and collagist. He leaves his wife Esther Moellenhoff English, son Andrew, daughter Ellen & 3 grandchildren. He was predeceased by his first wife Constance Kent English. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Americans United for Separation of Church and State, 518 C Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20002.
        ENGLISH-Louis C. M.D. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and Society note with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Louis English, Fellow Emeritus, Training and Supervising Analyst, Faculty Member, former Director of the Clinical Services and former President of the White Society. We called him Woody-this cultured, charming, dapper gentleman whose warm, easy elegance and dash bespoke his southern roots. He was a man whose abundant hospitality and generosity embraced his many friends and colleagues and whose keen sensitivity to the joy of living brought them pleasure. A Fulbright Professor at the University of Baroda in the mid 1950's, Woody's regard for political and social causes was as active as his passion for psychoanalysis, for solid and meaningful interpersonal relationships, and for all of the arts. An artist of some repute, his collages and other works were shown on the East Coast and reside in a number of private collections. Woody was a steadfast individualist who made a distinctive contribution to his many students, supervisees and analysands. While serving for many years as Director of the Rockland County Mental Health Clinic, Woody's attention to the wide applicability of psychoanalytically-based training and treatment informed many perspectives both within and outside the White Institute Community. A devoted family man, Woody lived every moment fully and deeply. We offer our profound condolences to Woody's family. We shall all miss him very much. Joerg Bose, M.D. Director, White Institute Charles C. Harrington, Ph.D President, Board of Trustees Margit Winckler,Ph.D President, White Society
      