
        KESSLER-Moe. Lifelong NYC resident as well as the founder, president and CEO of Outwater Plastics Industries and Architectural Products by Outwater, died on December 4th in Manhattan. Kessler, who, with the love and support of his late wife, Sylvia and their two sons, Richard and Peter, went on to establish Outwater Plastics Industries in August of 1972. Outwater Plastics was founded on the premise of providing small furniture and cabinet manufacturers with a source from which they could purchase extruded plastic mouldings in quantities that actually reflected their requirements rather than the set substantial minimum quantities dictated by the plastic extrusion manufacturers at the time. Kessler, however, did not start his career in the Plastics Industry. Upon his discharge from the Navy, Kessler went to work for a large wholesale hardware company in New York City. It was quite by chance that Kessler began to experiment with Plastics. Having realized the potential advantages in manufacturing with and use of this then new material, Kessler decided to examine the suitability of manufacturing mouldings out of Plastic instead of the conventional materials from which they were then being produced. As Kessler had accurately envisioned, it was not long before his initial Plastic products became a huge success. Kessler began to manufacture other Plastic extruded mouldings that, up until that point, had only been available in metal. Each new success readily spawned another. The Plastics Industry began to prosper, thus giving way to more products. Not only did Kessler serve to open the manufacturers' eyes to numerous products that had not previously been available, because the Plastics manufacturers simply could not cater to the needs of the small furniture and cabinet manufacturers, through default, Outwater Plastics became the first Plastics distributor in the industry. From the vendor of a single product back in August of 1972, today Outwater Plastics and its corporate affiliate, Architectural Products by Outwater, with facilities in New Jersey and Arizona, are recognized as a major international supplier of nearly 40,000 standard and innovative component products to numerous industries. Best remembered for his generosity and contributions that he has made to the lives of everyone who knew him, Kessler attributed the success of Outwater Plastics and Architectural Products by Outwater to the dedication and hard work of its employees, whom he referred as his ''best investment in the whole world.'' Kessler further cited the generosity and support of his charter vendors, all who believed in Kessler and his dream to help keep his then young company operational in the early days. Kessler ultimately credited his success to Sylvia (nee Wallace), his wife of over forty years, who predeceased him in 1995. It was her wisdom and inspiration, in conjunction with his foresight and ability, not to mention ''Luck'' that helped Moe Kessler to realize his dreams. Kessler is survived by his second wife, Linda, his two sons, Richard and Peter, daughter-inlaw, Susan, and was the beloved grandfather of Stephen, Faye Lauren and William. A memorial service will be held at Riverside Chapel, 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue, on Sunday, December 9th at 2:30 PM.
      