
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. Died peacefully at age 79 on December 8, 2001, at Long Island Jewish Medical Center after a courageous battle with cancer. Loving wife for 51 years of Irving. Beloved mother of Bunny Mayersohn, Lynn Schneider Joseph and Mindy Schneider Lesser. Devoted mother-in-law of Ronald Mayersohn, Nathan Joseph and Dr. Michael Lesser. Adoring grandmother of Leah Mayersohn, Jeremiah Schneider Joseph, Max Schneider Joseph, Katie Schneider Lesser and Jake Schneider Lesser. Survived by sister Anne Jacobs, predeceased by brothers Samuel and David and sisters Celia and Estelle. Adored aunt to many nieces and nephews. A great lady, elegant and fine, whose passion and compassion touched people of all ages and all places. Funeral services will be held Monday, December 10, 12 noon, at Central Synagogue, Lexington Avenue at 55th St. Donations may be made to Medical Development for Israel, 130 East 59th St, Suite 1203, NY, NY 10022, or Schneider Children's Hospital, Room CH102, Long Island Jewish Medical Center, New Hyde Park, NY 11040.
        SCHNEIDER-Helen (nee Bauman). We mourn the passing of Helen Schneider, who for more than 30 years worked alongside her husband, Irving Schneider, a trustee of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System and a former chairman of the LIJ Medical Center, to deliver the highest quality of medical care to children. A life member of Long Island Jewish Hospital's Service Guild, Mrs. Schneider became an in-service volunteer in the pediatric playroom. It was her great love for children that inspired her two daughters, Lynn Joseph and Mindy Lesser, to follow in her footsteps and eventually brought about the naming of the Schneider Children's Hospital. A pivotal force in commissioning the celebrated works of art surrounding the Children's Hospital, Mrs. Schneider will also be remembered for her dedication to the building of the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel in Petach Tikvah near Tel Aviv. It is the only tertiary care facility for children in Israel serving the medical needs of children in the Middle East, Africa and Asia. Mr. and Mrs. Schneider were true partners in everything they did as a family and on behalf of the hospital. They endowed many of the Medical Center's research and education programs, establishing fellowships in several areas including hematology/oncology, radiology, psychiatry and pulmonary medicine and pediatric cardiology. In addition to her generosity to Schneider Children's Hosptial, Mrs. Schneider also served on the boards of the LIJ Service Guild and the Ronald McDonald House of Long Island, which is located on the LIJ campus. She is survived by her husband of more than 50 years and their three daughters, Bunny Mayersohn, Lynn and Mindy, and grandchildren. Her lifelong commitment to the health and well being of the world's children will never be forgotten-and is her rich legacy. Roy J. Zuckerberg Chairman, Board of Trustees John S.T. Gallagher, CEO Michael J. Dowling, COO Jon R. Cohen, M.D. Chief Medical Officer North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The faculty and staff of the Schneider Children's Hospital in New Hyde Park, NY, mourn the loss of Helen Schneider. Her philanthropic endeavors both in this country and abroad were legendary and the hallmark of her life. With grace, style, determination and courage, she devoted herself to the welfare of children around the world. She contributed her talent, time and energy to the Schneider Children's Hospital both in New Hyde Park and in Israel in order to create a climate of comfort, solace and kindness assuring that children who enter the hospital, which bears her name, would not be traumatized by the experience. Helen carefully selected and commissioned the magnificent works of art and sculpture that adorn the Children's Hospital and stand as testimony to her sense of aesthetics, taste and deep commitment to the welfare of all children. Together with her husband, she played a vital role in the vision and the establishment of the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, one of the most outstanding children's hospitals in the world; a beacon of hope for all children of the Middle East and the Mediterranean basin. It was Helen's fervent desire that the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel would be a bridge to peace between Israel and its neighbors. She, together with her husband, was the recipient of numerous citations from the State of Israel, international organizations and universities. We extend our sympathies to her husband Irving, her daughters Bunny, Lynn and Mindy, her sons-in-law and her grandchildren. Philip Lanzkowsky, M.D. Chief-of-Staff Schneider Children's Hospital New Hyde Park, NY
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The entire Long Island Jewish Medical Center community mourns the loss our beloved friend and benefactor, Helen Schneider, a supporter of children's health care and other causes. Along with her husband Irving, they had the vision and foresight to support the Schneider Children's Hospital on the Long Island Jewish Medical Center campus in New Hyde Park, NY, and to establish the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel near Tel Aviv, Israel. Her selfless devotion to the health and well being of children served as a motivating force in furthering the mission of the Children's Hospital by attending to the health needs of countless thousands of children here in the New York metropolitan area and abroad. Her association with numerous philanthropic organizations, including the Helen and Irving Schneider Foundation, the UJA Federation, and the Ronald McDonald House of Long Island, spanned more than three decades. Her tireless work, generosity and devotion to the Long Island Jewish Medical Center will be greatly missed by the Medical Center's family, which includes over two thousand physicians and dentists. Helen is survived by her husband Irving, her three daughters and grandchildren. We extend our sympathies to the Schneider family and remember the life-long commitment Helen made to bringing health care to children of all races, nationalities and religions. Paul Hochenberg Executive Director L. I. Jewish Medical Center Allan Abramson, M.D. President, Medical Board L. I. Jewish Medical Center
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The faculty and staff of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset wish to express our deepest sadness on the passing of Helen Schneider. A true humanitarian, she worked tirelessly for children, ensuring that the highest degree of medical care was available for all. Through that commitment she and her husband Irving, generously supported both Schneider Children's Hospital in New Hyde Park and Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel, near Tel Aviv. She will be missed by her many friends at North Shore. We extend our most sincere condolences to Irving Schneider and his family. Dennis Dowling Executive Director North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The staff of the Division of Hematology Oncology, its Joel Finkelstein Ambulatory Chemotherapy and Transfusion unit and its Inpatient unit at the Long Island Jewish Medical Center deeply mourns the loss of Helen Schneider, a grand lady of grace and courage. Our heartfelt condolences to her loving husband Irving Schneider, her daughters and her entire family. Kanti R. Rai, M.D. Bhoomi Mehrotra, M.D. Dilip Patel, M.D. Mark Hoffman, M.D. Linda Russo, M.D.
        SCHNEIDER - Helen. Howard Graff, Deborah Skakel, Alexander Widell, Elaine Arabatzis, Elizabeth Scher and their colleagues at Dickstein Shapiro Morin and Oshinsky LLP mourn the passing of Helen Schneider, dear wife of Irving, mother of Bunny, Lynn and Mindy, and grandmother of Leah, Jeremiah, Max, Katie and Jake. Helen's charm, dignity and good works have left a deep impression on us and children throughout the world. Our deepest sympathies are extended to the entire Schneider family.
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Physicians and Staff of the Department of Otolaryngology at Long Island Jewish Medical Center express with deep sorrow the passing of Helen Schneider, a generous benefactor and esteemed friend, and extend to her beloved husbnd Irving and family our deepest sympathy. Her spirit will live on through her daughters Lynn, Mindy and Bunny, and their children. Allan L. Abramson, M.D. Chairman
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. My loyal friend, I am diminished by your passing and truly bereft in your absence. Your loving caring friendship can never be replaced. Some people come into our lives and quickly go, some stay for a while, leave many footprints on our hearts and we are never ever the same. I will reach for the phone and I miss you already. Lovey Honey
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. I knew Helen and Irving my entire life as they were good friends of my parents and became good friends of my wife and I. Helen and Irving lit a candle at my Bar Mitzvah, which I will never forget. She was a warm, friendly, compassionate and understanding woman who will be missed by all and especially us. Ann and Jeff Mann
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. With profound sorrow we note the passing of an extremely devoted wife, caring mother, loving grandmother. An extraordinary woman who was a philanthropic and active supporter of many organizations, both here and in Israel. Helen was an inspiration to all who knew her and especially to our family. Bernice and Jerry Lachs
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. We are heartbroken over the loss of our beloved aunt Helen. She was a special lady, we will miss her love and wisdom. Ilene, Jon, David and Steve Halpern
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. We will always remember your comforting hugs, helping us whenever we needed you, and always being there for grandparents visiting day. Love always, Katie and Jake
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. Ruth and I wish to extend our sincere sympathy to Irving and his entire family on the death of Helen, a beautiful and charming woman. Irving Wharton and Ruth Donner
        SCHNEIDER - Helen. Grandma Helen, you will be in my thoughts every day and in my dreams every night. I love you and miss you terribly. Leah
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. For us, you will always be answering the door with big hugs and kisses or saying, ''One minute, I'm just finishing the gefilte fish.'' Love you always, Jeremiah and Max
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. You have always been my friend, my love and thoughts are with you always. Ruth Drucker
        SCHNEIDER-Helen. A beautiful classy lady. I loved you. Shirley Lesser
      