
        McGOVERN-Joseph W. of Irvington. Dies at 92: Former Chancellor of the Board of Regents. Mr. McGovern made a peaceful crossing into new life on December 19 in Mount Vernon Hospital. He was elected to the Board of Regents of the University of the State of New York in 1961 and served on Board for 14 years -the last six as Chancellor. This caps a long litany of public service contributions rendered while Mr. McGovern was practicing and teaching law. Until 1999, he served on the Board of Calvary Hospital for 18 years, the last several as Chair. Mr. McGovern was widely known as the consummate lawyer. A partner for many years in the firm of Sullivan, Donovan, Hanrahan, McGovern and Lane, in 1996, Mr. McGovern moved his office from Pine Street in Manhattan to Main Street in White Plains, where he practiced with son Lawrence in the firm of McGovern and Dawson. At Fordham University School of Law he taught a generation of law students, who still refer to him with respect and affection as Professor McGovern. Mr. McGovern's study at home is dotted with the dozen honorary doctorates he was awarded and the numerous awards he received for his teaching. Few were surprised when Fordham Law School in 1996 selected Mr. McGovern for its first ''Second Harvest'' award for one who ''has made exceptional contributions to society in the humanities, the legal profession, business world, community, civic or charitable affairs.'' He did it all. Those who know ''Joe'' McGovern best, though, point out that his proudest moments were spent as devoted teammate with his deceased wife Marie and the six children, 22 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren. The only child of Jane Fahy and Philip McGovern, immigrants from Ireland, Mr. McGovern was born in the Bronx on February 22, 1909. The first of his generation to attend college, he graduated with honors from both Fordham College and Fordham Law School. Mr. McGovern is predeceased by his sons Joe-Ray, and Philip; he is survived by his daughter Teesie Melillo, sons Lawrence, Joseph, and Ray, and his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. A Mass of the Resurrection will be held on Monday, December 24, at 9:00 AM in Fordham University Chapel in the Bronx. Friends may pay their respects at Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave., Dobbs Ferry, from 2:00 to 4:00 and from 7:00 to 9:00 PM on Sunday, December 23. The family asks that any memorials be sent to Calvary Hospital, 1740-70 Eastchester Rd., Bronx, NY 10461, or to Fordham University, Bronx, NY 10458.
        MCGOVERN-Joseph W. On behalf of the board of directors, administration and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc., we mourn the passing of our past chairman of the board of directors and dear friend. Joseph McGovern served on the hospital board of directors from 1975-1993, 14 of those years as chairman. He also gave generously of his time as chairman of the executive, nominating, compensation and law committees of the hospital board. Through his leadership and guidance, Joe supported the development and growth of Calvary Hospital's program of care. As an individual of extraordinary quality of character, he served the hospital board with distinction, acting as a wise counselor and a loyal advocate on behalf of the patients and staff of the hospital. Although Joseph McGovern retired from Calvary's board of directors, he remained a beloved member of the Calvary Family and we will miss him. We extend our deepest sympathy to his children and his grandchildren. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., M.D., Chairman, Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President, Calvary Hospital Michael J. Brescia, M.D., Executive Medical Director James E. Cimino, M.D., Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute Richard J. Kutilek, Chief Operating Officer
        McGOVERN-Joseph W. The Board of Directors and Administration of the Calvary Fund are deeply saddened by the passing of our longtime friend Joseph W. McGovern, former Chairman of the Calvary Hospital Board of Directors. His leadership and dedication to the Mission of Calvary Hospital inspired all who had the privilege of knowing him. Joe was a true humanitarian, he gave of himself, his time, his expertise, his spirituality and his wisdom. We extend our condolences to his children and grandchildren. Dennis E. Berberich, Chairman Calvary Fund Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President Calvary Fund Vincent J. Spinelli, Exec V.P. Calvary Fund Roy Clary, Sr Dir of Development
        McGOVERN-Joseph W. The Fordham Law School community records with great sorrow the passing of Joseph McGovern, a 30 year faculty member, alumnus and friend. He was a man of great dignity and wisdom. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. John D. Feerick, Dean
      