
        IOVENKO-Michael. Beloved husband of Nancy. Loving father of Christopher and William and stepfather of Barry. Dear brother of Christina Howe. Devoted uncle of Celia, Aleta and Fiona. Grandfather of Sadie and Michael. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Legal Aid Society or the Berkshire Farm Center and Services for Youth in Canaan, NY. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday, December 4, 5 until 8 PM. Funeral service will be private. A memorial service will be announced.
        IOVENKO-Michael. The Board of Directors, the President's Council, the Management and Staff of The Legal Aid Society mourn the death of one of our greatest friends and supporters. Mike was a director of the Society for 14 years, serving as president from 1991 through 1994, and on the President's Council since 1998. His extraordinary warmth, energy and diplomatic skills were always in evidence. The changes which began under his leadership and the support he provided thereafter have been important building blocks for the future. His tireless devotion to Legal Aid and our clients earned him our highest honor: The Society's Servant of Justice Award in 2000. He also served the legal profession and the community beyond Legal Aid with the highest distinction in a host of capacities. We will miss his wise counsel, his sound judgment, and his tremendous sense of humor, which he shared unselfishly with the Board and Staff. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife, Nancy. D. Stuart Meiklejohn, Chair Daniel L. Greenberg President and Attorney-in-Chief
        IOVENKO-Michael. The Board of Directors, Executive Director, staff, children and families of Berkshire Farm Center and Services for Youth express our deepest sorrow on the passing of Michael Iovenko. He was a vital and generous member of our Board of Directors for 32 years. He held the position of Vice President from 1973 until 1974 and 1980 until the time of his death. He served as President from 1975 until 1979. Mr. Iovenko chaired various committees during his tenure including residential care and treatment, community-based services and nominating. Mr. Iovenko was very involved in the initial development of Berkshire's Community-Based Services, which has grown into a network of programs serving children and families statewide. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Nancy, sons Christopher and William and the entire family. Charles H. Mott, President Board of Directors
        IOVENKO-Michael. The Association of the Bar of the City of New York mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague, Michael Iovenko. Michael served The Association in many capacities, most recently as Treasurer and Member of The Association's Executive Committee. Michael's strong commitment to The Association and indeed, the New York legal community, will long be remembered. His judgement, support, and warmth will be sorely missed. The Association wishes to extend its condolences to his wife, Nancy Newhouse Iovenko, and his family.
        IOVENKO-Michael. The Board of Directors and staff of the FrenchAmerican Foundation express their great sadness at the passing of their distinguished friend, board member and former president. He was a passionate, lifelong Francophile, and was absolutely committed to strengthening the ties between France and the United States. He was a man of grace and charm who will be missed by all of us. We offer our deepest sympathy to Nancy and to all of his family. Michael Patterson, Vice Chairman Anthony A. Smith, President
      