
        VOORSANGER-Catherine Hoover, 51. Died from complications of melanoma, December 24, 2001. Born in San Francisco, December 18, 1950, she was the daughter of Beatrice B. Slater and Robert C. Hoover. She attended the Katherine Delmar Burke School, Smith College and received her doctorate in the Art History Program from the Graduate Center, City University of New York in the Fall of 2001. Catherine was Curator at the San Francisco Historical Society from 1972 to 1979 and most recently Associate Curator at the American Wing of the Metropolitan Museum. She joined the Metropolitan Museum in 1983 and in 1991 had the responsibility for furniture after 1825 in the American Wing, including the Frank Lloyd Wright Collection. She participated in and made major contributions to the scholarship of her field in the three exceptional exhibitions and publications at the Museum: ''The Aesthetic Movement,'' ''Herter Brothers'' and ''Art and the Empire City.'' The publication ''Art and the Empire City'' received The Henry Allen Moe Prize from the NY State Historical Society and a distinguished award from the NY Public Library. Mrs. Voorsanger is survived by her husband Bartholomew Voorsanger, her mother and father, her sisters Holly de Montmarin and Whitney Hoover, and brothers Robert C. Hoover II, Samuel S. Slater and John S. Hoover. A memorial service will be held at the Cosmopolitan Club, NYC, January 11, 2002 at 11AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to a new Fellowship Fund established in the Art History Program at the Graduate Center, City University of New York with an emphasis on the Decorative Arts in the name of Dr. Catherine Hoover Voorsanger. Information may be obtained from Mr. Larry Cowen at CUNY, 212-817-7132.
        VOORSANGER-Catherine Hoover. It is with deep sadness that the trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of our treasured colleague and friend, Catherine Hoover Voorsanger. As associate curator of American decorative arts, she was responsible for building the Metropolitan's later 19th-century furniture collection. During her eighteen years at the Museum, she was involved in many projects that furthered the scholarship and understanding of American art, including the exhibitions ''In Pursuit of Beauty: Americans and the Aesthetic Movement'' (1986) and ''Herter Brothers: Furniture and Interiors for a Gilded Age'' (1994). Most notably she was project coordinator for ''Art and the Empire City: New York, 1825-1861,'' a landmark exhibition and catalogue in Fall 2000 that chronicled the cultural life of the city during the period when it became a great and vibrant metropolis. Catherine was a dedicated scholar and curator whose warmth, intelligence, and bravery won her the respect and affection of all who worked with her. We extend our condolences to her husband Bart and to her entire family. Philippe de Montebello, Director
      