
        RUSHMORE-Leon. An active member of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), Westbury Meeting, died on December 5th at Stonybrook Hospital. He was 91. The cause was heart failure. A graduate of Friends Academy in Locust Valley, New York, and of Swarthmore College, in Swarthmore, Pennsylvania, he was a lifelong member of the Religious Society of Friends, Westbury Meeting. In addition, he was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Westbury Friends School. A true practitioner of the peaceful ways of the Religious Society of Friends, he possessed a great love of his fellow man and instinctively reached out to offer assistance to those less fortunate. His passion for people was evident in his optimistic manner and his talent for affirming the most positive characteristics of those with whom he interacted. His real gift was an ability to move groups with diverse interests to a common goal using a wonderful blend of verbal and written communication skills. Mr. Rushmore always gave generously of himself. At an early age, he became interested in the field of health care and became a well recognized figure at numerous Long Island medical associations and facilities. He served on the New York State Board of Medical Ethics and was Trustee Emeritus for Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, New York, where he had been associated for more than 50 years. A native Long Islander, Leon Rushmore was born in Roslyn Heights. His professional career was spent at the Long Island Lighting Company where he retired as Vice President of Employee Relations in 1975. Active in fund raising for numerous charitable organizations, he was also a Board Member of Planned Parenthood and a Founding Board Member of Friends of Long Island Heritage. In February 1932, he married Caroline Jackson of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and the young couple took up residence on the family farm in Roslyn Heights, where in addition to their professional careers, they operated several vegetable stands during the war years of the 1930s and '40s. They shared a love for the game of tennis and actively engaged in the sport until prohibited by health restrictions, at which point they became faithful observers of popular matches. Influential in developing legislation for life care facilities in New York State, he and Caroline were the initial residents at a model life care facility, Jefferson Ferry, in Port Jefferson, New York. In addition to his beloved wife, he is survived by his two daughters, Mary Lee Rushmore of New Harbor, Maine, and Carly Hellen of Chicago, Illinois, and his son, Stephen Rushmore of Roslyn Heights, New York as well as five grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. A memorial service will be held at 2:00 pm on Saturday, January 5th at the Westbury Meeting House (Religious Society of Friends), 550 Post Avenue, Westbury, New York. In lieu of flowers, the family has requested that donations be made to the Westbury Friends School, 550 Post Avenue, Westbury, NY 11590.
      