
        KAPLAN-Lawrence I., M.D. Passed away Dec. 11th at home in Longboat Key, FL. Loving and singularly devoted husband of 58 years to Janet, cherished father to Richard and Laurie, and beloved grandfather to Wesley. Adored by family and friends for his limitless generosity and his gift for finding and nurturing the best in each of us. He is respected and admired by patients, colleagues and students for his unfailing devotion to medicine. In addition to his private practice, he maintained a lifelong affiliation with Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan where he trained, taught and practiced neuropsychiatry, served as Chairman of the Medical Board at Gracie Square Hospital and shared his medical expertise with the Practicing Law Institute. His extraordinary kindness will be missed and long remembered by all who knew him. Funeral services to be held on Friday, December 14, 9:30 AM at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, New York.
        KAPLAN-Lawrence, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our longstanding colleague and Associate Attending Neurologist. Dr. Kaplan received his medical training at New York University and came to Mount Sinai as an intern in 1943. He devoted more than 40 years to teaching and caring for patients. He also became an expert in medical-legal affairs. He will be remembered for his varied interests and his commitment to the field of Medicine. The AAS salutes his many years of service and we extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Anthony Squire, M.D., President Vicki Lopachin, M.D., Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
        KAPLAN-Lawrence, MD, The Mount Sinai School of Medicine Department of Neurology mourns the passing of our distinguished colleague Dr. Lawrence Kaplan. He was a member of the Department until retirement in 1992 and was a valued teacher, mentor, and role model for scores of Mount Sinai residents. He will surely be missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family.
        KAPLAN-Lawrence, M.D. We mourn the death of our dearest friend. We will never forget you, dear Larry. Paul and Selma Klingenstein
      