
        EISENBERG-Stanford. American Friends of The Hebrew University mourns the passing of Stanford Eisenberg, member of the National Council of Trustees. With his wife, Helen, who served as President of the South Palm Beach County Chapter, the Eisenbergs generously provided support for programs of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, including the Amy Eisenberg Graduate Student Scholarship in Education for the Gifted in memory of their beloved late daughter, and the Miriam and Julius Vinik Chair in Mathematics in memory of Mrs. Eisenberg's parents. Honored as Benefactors of The Hebrew University, the Eisenbergs have also supported the Rothberg International School, the Lautenberg Research Center for General and Tumor Immunology, and many other important projects of The Hebrew University. We extend out deepest condolences to Helen and her daughter, Ann Friedlander. American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chairman of The Board
        EISENBERG-Stanford E. Of Boca Raton, FL. and Hackensack, N.J., on January 9, 2002, after a 2-1/2 year illness. Beloved husband of Helen. Father of Ann Friedlander and Amy (deceased). Father-inlaw of Stephen R. Friedlander. Mr. Eisenberg graduated from Rutgers University. He served in the U.S. Navy during WWII as Executive Officer on the USS Hudson. Mr. Eisenberg was a generous man who was active in many charities including the United Jewish Appeal, American Friends of Hebrew University and ADL. His friends and relatives will all miss Stan. We will miss his wit, his song, his poetry, his integrity, the Times Sunday crossword undone, in all we will miss you, Stan. Funeral service at Gutterman-Musicant, 402 Park St, Hackensack, N.J. Friday January 11th, 1:30PM. 201489-3800. The family will be receiving visitors at their home, The Excelsior II, 170 Prospect Ave, Hackensack, N.J. through Monday evening, January 14th.
        EISENBERG-Stanford. The Board of Governors and members of Montammy Golf Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved member and extend their heartfelt sympathy to Helen and the entire family. Kenneth R. Orr, President
      