
        NERKEN-Jean. The Beth Israel Medical Center and Long Island College Hospital (LICH) communities join with the leadership of the hospitals' parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Jean Nerken, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Ruth Nerken, a member of the Continuum, Beth Israel and LICH Boards and a Trustee Liaison to the Beth Israel Cancer Center Advisory Board. Through the Jean and Albert Nerken Foundation, Ruth and her sister Sara supported the growth and development of the Cancer Center, and their family's generosity was recognized with the naming of the Nerken Family Atrium at the Phillips Ambulatory Care Center. The late Mrs. Nerken also honored the memory of her husband Albert and son Ira through support of the Samuels Planetree Unit. To Ruth, the entire Nerken family and all of her mother's loved ones, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Boards of Trustees, Beth Israel and Continuum John Wren, Vice Chairman, Board of Trustees, Continuum and Chairman, Board of Regents, LICH Peter A. Kelly, President and CEO, Continuum Matthew E. Fink. M.D., President and CEO, Beth Israel Mark McDougle, Exec. VP and COO, LICH
        NERKEN-Jean. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Jean Nerken, a cherished friend and beloved leader who was greatly admired for her extraordinary generosity and compassionate concern. With her late husband, Albert Nerken, Mrs. Nerken expressed an unwavering commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes, earning enormous admiration and respect from friends and colleagues. Through the Jean and Albert Nerken Humanitarian Services Fund, created through our Planned Giving & Endowments department, Mrs. Nerken helped to improve the lives of children and young adults by supporting day camp, college, and graduate school scholarships. She has left a legacy that will continue to touch the lives of many for years to come. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Nerken's daughters, Ruth & Sara; to her grandchildren, Samantha & Clare; & to the entire Nerken family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Joan Ginsburg, Women's Campaign Chair
      