
        NERKEN-Jean. Beloved wife of the late Albert. Devoted mother of Ruth, Sara and the late Ira. Dear sister of Carl and the late Florence. Loving grandmother of Samantha Clare Karpinsky. Services Sunday 10 AM at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, LI. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Beth Israel Medical Center, Singer Division, 170 East End Avenue, New York, New York 10028.
        NERKEN-Jean. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board, League, Administration and Staff of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation deeply mourn the passing of Jean Nerken, Trustee and wife of Past Chairman Emeritus, Albert Nerken. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her children, Ruth and Sarah, son-in-law Robert, and her granddaughter. Jean and her late husband Albert founded the Nerken Center for Research at Parker, a nationally renowned center for geriatric research currently conducting significant studies related to Alzheimer's disease and associated dementia, anemia, depression, flu, osteoporosis, palliative care, and a host of other emerging health care issues related to aging. Thanks to the vision and generosity of Jean and Albert, The Nerken Center is at the forefront of advances in medicine that will help literally hundreds of thousands of older Americans live healthier, longer and more productive lives. Jean Nerken is an important part of the history of Parker and the ongoing mission to improve the quality of lives for older adults. She is part of an extraordinary legacy of caring & compassion that will always have a warm place in our hearts. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, Jan 27, 2002 at 10am, at Gutterman's Funeral Home, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, NY 516-921-5757. Condolences can be sent to: Ruth Nerken, 55 W 74 St, NY, NY 10023. Barbara N. Kurshan, Chair of the Board, Barry T. Zeman, President Jonathan H. Freiberger, Steven Olken, Co-Chairs, Associate Board Florence Spencer, Suzanne Sussman, Lillian Wilner, Co-Presidents, Parker League
        NERKEN-Jean. We mourn the loss of our dear friend with whom we shared many happy experiences. Elsie & Julie Diamond
      