
        BARON-Fannie. Age 94. On January 21, 2002 in Hollywood, Florida. Devoted wife of the late Sol Baron. Mother of Selma and the late Milton. Grandmother of Allen, Lissy, Rachel and Howard. Greatgrandmother of Lauren, Phil, Meryl, B.J., Matthew and Michael. She was the matriarch of the family and a woman far ahead of her times. Hunter College graduate, entrepreneur and founder of Cab Operating Co. She worked side by side for over 50 years with her beloved husband Sol. Her beauty, style, strength, grace, wit and charm personified her existence. Her love for family and dedication to the community were unparalleled. She will always live in our hearts. Tributes in her memory may be made to Temple Beth El in Rockaway Park, NY.
        BARON-Fannie. For close to 80 years you were the matriarch of the NYC taxi business. You and your beloved husband Sol and your beloved son Milton worked side by side to build the company. Your strength, wisdom, tenacity, leadership and, of course, brilliant mind will be missed by all of us. Your were a beautiful lady in a tough man's business. We admired you, respected you, and loved you. You will always be remembered by us. Team Systems-Cab Operating Co.
        BARON-Fannie. An extraordinary, beautiful, strong, special and intelligent lady. Our great-grandmother will be deeply missed by her six great-grandchildren, Lauren, Phil, Meryl, B.J., Matthew and Michael. She taught us the meaning of hard work, the importance of education, giving to your community, and most importantly, devotion to your family. Nothing gave her greater joy than watching Matthew and Michael grow and her being able to walk down the aisle of her great-granddaughters' weddings. We were blessed to have her in our lives. Nana, we love you and we'll miss you.
        BARON-Fannie. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our adored friend and esteemed mentor. For three decades Mrs. Baron honored us with her loyalty, guided us with her wisdom and embraced us with her warmth. Her spirit was as rich as the delicious chocolate cake she savored at every meal. Mrs. Baron was the ''Grand Matriarch'' of a large and loving family of relatives and friends. Her dignity, ideals, generosity and beauty are etched forever in all our hearts. The Kalick Family
        BARON-Fannie. With heavy hearts we announce the passing of our longtime leader and guardian of Temple Beth-El of Rockaway Park in her 95th year and express sincerest condolences to her beloved daughter, Mrs. Selma Kaplan, President of Temple Beth-El of Rockaway Park, and to her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. May the family's service and support for all causes both Jewish and general bring them comfort in this hour of grief. Dr. Allan Blaine, Rabbi
      