
        PERSKY-Lester, MD, 82. Passed away December 28, 2001 in Naples, FL. Dr. Persky was born in Cleveland, OH March 4, 1919 and graduated from Cleveland Heights High School. He subsequently attended The University of Michigan on a football scholarship, where his interest in medicine blossomed after a hip injury ended his football career. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Michigan and pursued his medical studies at The Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, MD. Dr. Persky was a Captain in the Army Medical Corps from 1946-48. Subsequent training was in general surgery at the Beth Israel Hospital (Boston). After serving as the Damon Runyon Research Fellow at Harvard University in 1950-51, he returned to Cleveland as a faculty member of Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, where he was Professor of Surgery as well as Chairman for the Division of Urology for nearly 30 years. Dr. Persky is widely considered one of the most published urologists in the United States, having authored more than 200 scientific articles; he also trained many urologists including six active university department chairpersons. He was a member of every prestigious urologic society in the world, and the Lester Persky Endowed Professorship at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine was established in his honor. Aside from his busy urology practice, he took great pride in his skill as a general practitioner of medicine and in his tennis game. He was a member fo the Cleveland Racquet Club and the Quail Creek Country Club of Naples. He was a member of the Inaugural Class of Inductees into the Cleveland Heights High School Hall of Fame. Dr. Persky ''retired'' to Florida in 1988 when he jointed the faculty of the University of South Florida College of Medicine as an Emeritus Professor of Surgery. However, his sizable monthly long-distance phone bill reflected his continued dedication and devotion to his former Cleveland patients. He was a member of the medical staff of the VA Clinic in Fort Myers at the time of his death. Dr. Persky is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Mary Elizabeth Connor, sons David (Mary) Persky of Tampla, FL and Dr. James (Cindy) Persky of Cleveland Heights, OH, daughter Katherine Persky of Manhattan, NY; five grandchildren, Zachary, Paige Abigail, Rachael and Allyson; sister Gladys Yanow of Sarasota, FL and sisterin-law Rosalyn Persky Sugarman of Shaker Heights, OH. Relatives and friends are invited to call at the Fuller Funeral Home, 1625 Pine Ridge Road on Wednesday, January 2, 2002 from 10:30 AM to 11:00 AM. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date in Cleveland, OH. Donations may be made in his memory to the National Kidney Foundation of Florida, 1040 Woodcock Road, Suite 119, Orlando, FL. 32803.
      