
        ABOODI-Esther. The faculty of Columbia University's College of Physicians & Surgeons mourn the passing of our dear friend, Esther Aboodi. Esther was a philanthopist and longtime volunteer at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, where she was a member of the Health Sciences Advisory Counsel. She supported research promoting new cancer treatments and therapies, and championed the work of young scholars and investigators in medicine. Esther's commitment to the Medical Center earned her numerous awards, notably a volunteer achievement award from the United Hospital Fund. She was a passionate advocate for women's health, including the Center for Women's Health and Women At Risk (WAR), on whose boards she served. Esther and her husband, Oded, recently helped to establish two assistant fellowships at the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center to advance research in lymphoma which will preserve the legacy of our generous and devoted friend. We extend our deepest sympathies to Oded, their children, Henry, David, and Abigail, their spouses and grandchildren. Gerald D. Fishbach, M.D., Executive Vice President For Health and Biomedical Sciences Dean of the Faculty of Medicine Columbia University
        ABOODI-Esther. NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend, Esther Aboodi. A member of the Columbia Presbyterian Health Sciences Advisory Council, the Center for Women's Health, Women At Risk, and other important organizations at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center of NewYork - Presbyterian, Mrs. Aboodi was a remarkable woman who nurtured the Hospital's staff and patients as marvelously as she did her own family. She gave generously of her time and resources to support the Hospital's mission. Always helpful, down-toearth yet elegant, and wonderfully empathic, she will be terribly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Herbert Pardes, M.D. President and CEO NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        ABOODI-Esther. The residents and employees of The Police Building extend their heartfelt sympathy to the family of Esther Aboodi whose husband Oded, the former President of the Cooperative, did so much to help the building become their wonderful home. The Board of Directors of 240 Centre Street
        ABOODI-Esther. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Esther Aboodi. Esther was a very special person. Her courage, her love of life and of people will serve as a lasting inspiration to all who knew her. Our love and sympathy to her devoted husband Oded, and to her children and their families. Gloria Louis and Jan Flanzer
        ABOODI-Esther. We deeply mourn the passing of Esther Aboodi-a classy, elegant lady who inspired us with her warmth, courage, strength and love. She was a part of our family and we will miss her terribly. Irma, Paul, Roslyn, Jerry, Howard, Abby, Barbara, David, Edward and Robin
        ABOODI-Esther. The most loving, devoted and courageous woman we have ever been blessed to know. Her sparkle will be remembered by all who knew her. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Aboodi family at this difficult time. Vivian, Connie, Philip and Family
        ABOODI-Esther. Board of Governors and members of Montammy Golf Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved member and extend their heartfelt sympathy to Oded and the entire family. Kenneth R. Orr, President
        ABOODI-Esther. We grieve at the loss of our close friend. She was caring and generous to all. We shall miss her. With love, Dottie, Marty, Michele, Leslie and Eric
      