
        RYAN-Mary A. On January 9, 2002. Associated with The Hospital for Special Surgery for over 40 years. Calling hours at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St., Friday, 3-5 and 7-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday, 10AM, Church of Saint Lawrence O'Toole, Brewster, N.Y. with burial following in the Parish Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory to the Hospital would be appreciated.
        RYAN-Mary A. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff, and Administration of the Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with profound sorrow the death of Mary A. Ryan, a dedicated member of the Hospital staff for more than four decades. Miss Ryan came to the Hospital directly after graduation from Hunter College and worked in the Development Department for her entire tenure, continuing to be of invaluable service well after her retirement. In 1955, the year she joined the Hospital, the newsletter noted, ''We were extremely fortunate when Mary came to us because she has that rare mixture of intelligence and wit. She is also just as quick with a smile as she is with an answer for the Times Crossword Puzzle.'' As the Assistant Director of Development, Miss Ryan was unstinting of her time, generous with her knowledge, and set a standard for excellence in everything she did. Miss Ryan is synonymous with the Hospital's Annual Gala, which she managed since its inception, working tirelessly year after year to ensure its ever-growing success. She was a close friend and valued advisor to generations of the Hospital's Board Members. She was considered by many to be the Hospital's oral historian and she was the standard bearer for HSS communications. Miss Ryan was a great friend to all at Hospital for Special Surgery and will be greatly missed and long remembered for her indefatigable spirit and devotion to the Hospital. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family and to the community of friends to whom she gave so much. Richard L. Menschel Chairman Aldo Papone Co-Chairman Mrs. Emil Mosbacher, Jr. Vice Chair Board of Trustees John R. Reynolds President & CEO Russell F. Warren M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief Stephen A. Paget M.D. Physician-in-Chief Philip D. Wilson Jr. M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief, Emeritus
      