
        ROSENBERG-Doris L., 83. Died on January 29, 2002 at Mt. Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. Daughter of the late Paul F. Lowinger of Vienna, Austria & Claire Lowinger of Jacksonville, Florida. Wife of the late Irwin H. Rosenberg, of New York. A passionate advocate of the rights of children and the elderly, a great friend to scores of men and women, a devoted New Yorker, and a polymath of enormous range and depth, Doris Rosenberg left an indelible mark on the life of this City. She is survived by her son and daughter-inlaw, Gerald & Rosalind Rosenberg of Manhattan, two grandsons, Clifford and Nicholas, a granddaughter-in-law, Kim, and one greatgrandson, Henry. Services will be at Frank E. Campbell (Madison Avenue & 81st Street) on Sunday, February 3 at 2:30. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Barnard College (the Doris Lowinger Rosenberg Fund Class of 1939), 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027, or the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, 120 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019.
        ROSENBERG-Doris L. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with profound sorrow the death of Doris Rosenberg. Doris was a truly remarkable woman whose courage and fierce determination never waned. A past president, Doris was one of the most important leaders in the history of JBFCS and defined a century of professional volunteers. Doris held many important positions including the chairmanship of the Madeleine Borg Community Services Divisional Committee. In gratitude for her commitment to community service, the MBCS office in Southern Brooklyn was named at a special tribute in November and is now known as The Doris L. Rosenberg Counseling Center. Her chairmanship of the Legislative Committee was perhaps the job she held most dear, impacting public policy which led to improved services to children and families. She was a true champion of the under-served and gave a voice to people who might otherwise not be heard. Doris was a mentor to many and Board and staff alike held her in the highest esteem. She pushed us to greater heights and insisted on the highest standards for our programs. She encouraged us to think and to question and always to achieve the best for our clients and the communities we serve. Doris had an incredible wit and sharp mind. She will be greatly missed, no meeting will ever be the same. But her spirit will guide us in our work and in our commitment to bettering the lives of all New Yorkers. We have been forever changed for having known Doris. We extend our deepest condolences to her family whom she loved dearly, Gerald and Rosalind, Cliff and Kim and Nick Rosenberg. Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Jean L. Troubh, President Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive Vice President and CEO
        ROSENBERG-Doris. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Doris Rosenberg. A cherished friend and exemplary leader, Mrs. Rosenberg served as vice president of UJAFederation and as chair of both the Women's Campaign and the Government Relations Committee. She is a past president of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, a UJA-Federation beneficiary. Through her dedication to these organizations, as well as to our beneficiary the Jewish Home and Hospital, Mrs. Rosenberg helped develop public policy leading to quality social services for families and children. We extend our deepest sympathies to her son, Gerald, and his wife, Rosalind; to her two grandsons; and to her entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Joan Ginsburg, Chair of the Women's Campaign
        ROSENBERG-Doris. The Board, Council and Staff of Planned Parenthood of New York City (PPNYC) mourn the death of Doris Rosenberg, a member of our Board of Directors and Council of Advocates for over a quarter of a century. We will long remember Doris for her unwavering commitment to this agency and the health and rights of women in New York City. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her entire family. Cathy A. Kramer, Chair, Board of Directors Joan Malin, Chief Executive Officer
        ROSENBERG-Doris L. The Partners and employees of Rosenman & Colin LLP extend their deepest condolences to the family of Doris L. Rosenberg, mother of our esteemed Partner, Gerald A. Rosenberg. Ms. Rosenberg was a tireless advocate for social welfare in our community, and she will be sorely missed. As a zealous advocate for the rights of children and the elderly for more than half a century, Ms. Rosenberg paved the way for new, groundbreaking programs and services. Our sincere condolences to her family and friends.
        ROSENBERG-Doris L. The New York Citizens' Committee on Aging mourns the death of our immediate past President. She led the organization for nine years, setting a standard for the rest of us to attain. We will miss her valuable guidance and advice. Dr. Marvin Lieberman, President Paulette Geanacopoulos, Executive Director
        ROSENBERG-Doris L. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Doris L. Rosenberg. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard J. Bronstein, Secretary
      