
        SOLAN-Miriam. Age 68, died at home December 31, 2001 after a short brave battle with lung cancer. For 46 wonderful years she was married to Henry, 79; she was the loving and proud mother of her two daughters, Alicia of Scarsdale, NY and Samara of San Francisco, CA. Loving mother-in-law of Victor and David and adoring Grand Ma of Gabriella eight, JoJo six, Olivia two and Gaelen eight weeks. She was the author of a recent collection of Poems, A Woman Combing, in addition to Seductions and an unpublished novel entitled Sammy. Her poems have been choreographed, performed and published in numerous literary journals. She was an enthusiastic supporter of Shenkar College in Ramat Gan Israel, and a member of the International Board of Governors. She will be sadly missed by family and friends. Services will be Wednesday, 11 AM at Zion Memorial Chapel, Mamaroneck, NY and burial at Mt Eden Cemetery, Hawthorne, NY. For information call the funeral home: 914-381-1809.
        SOLAN-Miriam. Shenkar College of Engineering and Design, Israel and the American Committee mourn the loss of Miriam Solan, a Governor and Honorary Fellow of the college. Member of the American Committee Board, educator and poet, Miriam will be sorely missed. The Solan Family Scholarship Fund memorializes her dedication to present and future generations of Shenkar students. Deepest condolences to husband Henry and daughters Alicia and Samara and their families. David Pernick, Chair, Governors Prof. A. Weinberg, Pres., Shenkar Nahum G. Shar, President, American Committee Charlotte A. Fainblatt, Exec. Dir.
        SOLAN-Miriam. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to her husband Henry, her children Alicia and Samara, and the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Emeritus Bernard Dienstag, Cantor Emeritus Katherine Teich, President Steven Chill, Chairman
      