
        FONER-Moe, 86. Died in his sleep on January 10, 2002. He was a loving husband to Anne, father to Nancy and Peggy, and grandfather to Alexis. He spent his long life devoted to social justice. He developed creative projects promoting peace, workers' welfare, and racial harmony. Moe was loved by everyone, and we will miss his humor, warmth, energy, enthusiasm, and deep caring for people. Memorial service to be announced. Funeral service for friends and family Sunday, January 13, 2:00 PM, at Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam Ave. at 76 St.
        FONER-Moe. The officials and staff of 1199 SEIU, New York's Health and Human Service Union, deeply mourns the death of Moe Foner, January 10th, who was an indispensable architect of our Union's success over the past half century. Moe's unsurpassed skills in public relations and union culture programs were vital to 1199's initial hospital organizing in 1959 and in our Union's continual rapid growth. In labor, journalistic, civil rights, political and cultural circles, his name has come to stand for imagination, integrity, humor, judgement and persistence in the pursuit of social justice. Although he retired as 1199's Executive Secretary in 1982, Moe remained until his death the head of 1199 Bread and Roses Cultural Project, a program he founded that sets the standard for trade union culture life. Moe gave himself totally for the advancement of working people. We, who loved and admired him, pledge to try to follow his example of a life time of unyielding courage and principle. Moe died in his sleep at his Manhattan home at the age of 86. Our love and condolences to his wife, Anne, daughters, Nancy and Peggy, brother, Henry, and their families. Dennis Rivera, President George Gresham, Secy. Treas. 1199 SEIU Family
        FONER-Moe. The staff of Bread and Roses, the cultural arm of 1199/SEIU mourn the passing of our founder and inspiration, Moe Foner, a hero in labor, in culture, and to working people in this country, and around the world. Moe was like no one else. Dedicated, witty, intelligent, with indomitable persistence, he celebrated the lives of workers through art, in theater, in film, through posters, paintings, photographs, books, and songs. To the Foner family, to his union family, and to his legions of friends, we send our love. He gave us roses with our bread.
      