
        YOHALEM-Lillian. Age 89. Died on Wednesday, January 30, 2002 at home in Chappaqua, NY. She was the beloved wife of Aaron; adored mother of Deborah and Frank Wadsworth, Nan and Allen Banks, Jane and Daniel Yohalem; grandmother of fourteen and great grandmother of eight. Born in Mt. Vernon, NY to Sarah and Samuel Cohn, she was a graduate of the public schools and of New York University. Over her lifetime, she had a passionate love affair with Havassah, UJA/Federation and the New York Association for New Americans. She worked tirelessly for these organizations serving as the Chair of UJA's Leadership Council, member of the New York Cabinet and as a founder and leader of the Women's Campaign of Westchester County. She also served on the Board of Directors of NYANA and filled numerous leadership roles in her nineteen years with the organization. In recognition of her years of devoted efforts, UJA/Federation presented her with an award for helping to advance the quality of life for Jews in Israel, around the world and in New York. She was much loved by her family, and inspiration and source of strength to all who knew her. In lieu of flowers contributions should be made to UJA. Funeral services will be held Friday, February 1, at 11:15AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76 St.
        YOHALEM-Lillian. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Lillian Yohalem, a cherished friend and exemplary leader of UJA-Federation, who served on the Board of Trustees. Mrs. Yohalem expressed her commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes through her dedicated efforts on behalf of our Women's Campaign and our beneficiary agencies. Among her many contributions to UJA-Federation, Mrs. Yohalem will be remembered for helping to found the Westchester Women's Campaign. Mrs. Yohalem's daughter, Nan, is also a leader in the UJA-Federation community of caring. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Yohalem's husband, Aaron; to her daughter, Deborah, and her husband, Frank; to her daughter, Nan, and her husband, Allen; to her son, Daniel, and his wife, Jane; to her eight grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren; and to the entire Yohalem family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Joan Ginsburg, Chair of the Women's Campaign
        YOHALEM-Lillian. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Association for New Americans, Inc. (NYANA) mourn the passing of Lillian Yohalem, an active member of the NYANA Board of Directors from 1980-1999 when she was elected Honorary Member of the Board. We will remember her for her commitment to NYANA and its mission of serving refugees in the New York area. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Aaron and her children Deborah, Nan and Daniel. Michael Loeb, President Mark Handelman, Executive VP
      