
        KNAPP-Martha Gratwick. A longtime resident of Darien, died Friday, January 25, in her home at Edgehill in Stamford, Connecticut. She was 88. She graduated from the Ethel Walker School, and, in 1937, from Smith College after a junior year at the Sorbonne. During WWII when her late husband, George Owen Knapp II, was overseas, she was a Red Cross nurse in Buffalo hospitals and a civil defense worker. In Darien, she volunteered at the First Aid Society, the annual Smith College Book Sale, and Reading for the Blind. Born on December 11, 1913, in Buffalo, she was the daughter of the late Frederick C. and Dotha Dart Gratwick. Mobbie loved to laugh, often at herself. Her sense of fun, her warmth and gentle manner belied an inner core of strength. She had a passion for sports. She actively competed during the 1930's and 1940's in New York State alpine ski racing with her mother and her identical twin sister, the late Lisa Gratwick Nagel, often the three of them placing first, second, and third. She was also a tennis player, a golfer, and an avid ice dancer. In addition to her parents, husband and twin sister, Mrs. Knapp was predeceased by her brother Stephen Gratwick. She is survived by her brothers Frederick C. Gratwick Jr. and Davies Gratwick of Buffalo; four children, George O. Knapp III of Plantation, Florida, Lisa Gratwick Knapp of Redding, Connecticut, Louise Knapp Page of Newton, Massachusetts, and Susan KnappCook of Norwalk, Connecticut; three grandchildren, Jared, Tom and Sara, three great-grandchildren, Taylor, Dylan and Hadley; and many devoted nieces, nephews, and other relatives. A memorial service for Mrs. Knapp will be held on Thursday, January 31st, at 2 PM at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 1848 Post Road, Darien, Connecticut. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Elm and Carlton Streets, Buffalo, NY 14263 or Visiting Nurse and Hospice Care of Southwestern CT, Inc., 1029 East Main Street, Stamford, CT 06902-4108.
      