
        NICKERSON-Eugene H. The Partners, Associates and Staff of the firm of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel express their profound sorrow at the death of Judge Eugene H. Nickerson. Judge Nickerson was a named Partner of the firm from 1970 until he was appointed to the federal bench in 1977. In his integrity, his grace and his dedication to public service and justice, Eugene Nickerson personified everything a lawyer should aspire to be. Our fond memories of his generous and gentle spirit will long survive him. We extend our condolences to his wife Marie-Louise, his daughters Mal, Lawrie, Stephanie and Susan, and to all other members of his family.
        NICKERSON-Eugene H. We remember Eugene H. Nickerson as a Distinguished Federal Judge and Friend who served as President of our Society for 4 years and for a half-century, from 1950 until 2000, as a member of our Board of Managers. The Board of Managers, Officers and Staff The Havens Relief Fund Society Arthur V. Savage, President
        NICKERSON-Eugene H. Judge Nickerson's law clerks, past and present, extend our sympathy to the Nickerson family. We all learned so much about how to be better lawyers, citizens and people during our time with Judge Nickerson. He brought wisdom and humanity to bear on all of his work. His warmth and wit made that work our pleasure.
        NICKERSON-Eugene H. The administration and the Board of Directors of the Cobble Hill Health Center express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Eugene Nickerson and extend their heartfelt sympathies to Mal, Stephanie and the entire family. Olga Lipschitz, CEO Demetra Polimeros, President, Board of Directors
        NICKERSON-Hon. Eugene N. The judges of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York express deep regret at the death of Judge Nickerson, and extend sympathy to his family and to his colleagues in the Eastern District of New York. Michael B. Mukasey, Chief Judge
        NICKERSON-Eugene H. We pay tribute here to Gene Nickerson, a remarkable person, lawyer, Judge and former County Executive of Nassau County. We felt privileged to be his friend. Ruth and Bertram Harnett
      