
        KIMMEL-Edward A. Died on Thursday, January 3, 2002. Born on April 2, 1911. Beloved husband of Lucille for over 67 years. Loving and caring father of Joan K. Eigen and the late Alan Kimmel, and father-in-law of Robert Eigen. Adoring grandfather of Wendy Haigney, David Eigen, Deborah Barth, Julie Kimmel, Vicky Kimmel, and David Kimmel. Great grandfather of Emily, Lexi and Zachary Haigney, Max Eigen, Sam, Nathan and Torey Barth and Erin Adams. Oldest brother of Martin, Arnold and the late Seymour Kimmel. He was a pillar of the Palm Beach, Florida, community and cared dearly for both his family, his friends and for those in need. We will miss you dearly, but you will always be with us in our hearts, our souls and in our minds. Services will be held on Sunday, January 6, 2002 at 12:45 PM, Temple Emanu-el in Palm Beach. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in Mr. Kimmel's memory to the Cancer Center at Albert Einstein College of Medicine. For information call Quattlebaum Funeral Home: 561-832-5171.
        KIMMEL-Edward A. In fondest memory to our brother, whose love, guidance and counsel over all these years will surely and sorely be missed. With Lucille at his side, they gave the entire family strength, comfort and encouragement. With love and affection, Martin and Arnold Kimmel
        KIMMEL-Edward A. To our Poppa: who taught us to enjoy life, but that giving is most important. We are so blessed and proud to be a part of your family. Thank you; we will miss you so much. With love, Alan's kids.
        KIMMEL-Edward A. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Edward A. Kimmel, who expressed an admirable commitment to Jewish, medical, and humanitarian causes. Mr. Kimmel was a beloved leader in the Jewish community, who shared his deep devotion to UJAFederation and its beneficiary agencies with his wife, Lucille, his late son, Alan, and his brother, Martin. Mr. and Mrs. Kimmel's grandson, David Eigen, is very active in UJA-Federation's Real Estate Division. We extend our deepest sympathies to Lucille; to Mr. Kimmel's daughter, Joan Eigen, and her husband, Robert; to Martin; to David and his sister, Wendy Haigney, and Mr. Kimmel's four other grandchildren, Deborah Barth, Julie Kimmel, Vicky Kimmel, and David Kimmel; and to the entire Kimmel family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        KIMMEL-Edward A. The owners, officers and employees of the Charles H. Greenthal Group mourn the passing of Edward A. Kimmel. Edward and his brothers, after WWII, became one of New York's premiere real estate families. He was more than just a client of our office. For nearly 50 years he was both friend and mentor to Charles Greenthal and the West family. Above all, he was a living example of those most rare of business qualities, they being fairness and loyalty. He was there for us in good and bad times. Our deepest condolences to his family. Charles H. Geenthal Group William West Jonathan West
        KIMMEL-Edward A. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Edward A. Kimmel, brother of dedicated Weizmann Institute Governor, ACWIS Board of Directors Vice President and Executive Committee member, Martin S. Kimmel. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Robert H. Asher, Chairman American Committee Albert Willner, M.D., President Martin S. Kraar, Executive V.P. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Prof. Ilan Chet, President Weizmann Institute of Science
        KIMMEL-Edward A. Poppa, I will miss our daily conversations, your advice, support and confidence in me. I will anticipate, work hard and play hard, be organized, take pride in what I do and listen to Gershwin. Most of all I will miss your strength, guidance and friendship. I proudly carry the torch you passed to me, Joanie and the rest of us. After all, if it wasn't for you, we all wouldn't be here. Love always, David
        KIMMEL-Edward A. The officers, directors and associates of Kimco Realty Corporation express their deepest sympathy to the family of our longtime friend, Edward A. Kimmel. Kimco Realty Corporation
        KIMMEL-Edward A. Eddie was a wonderful partner, friend and mentor for over fifty years. We will miss him very much. Shirley and Milton Cooper
      