
        EASLICK-Susan Bolles, 61. Of Washington, DC, Grosse Pointe Farms, MI, and Ridgewood, NJ. Died of cancer on January 16, 2002. Susan was the Administrative Director of Delta Kappa Epsilon Fraternity and the Development Director of its educational foundation, the Rampant Lion Foundation, which she and her husband David, attorney and DKE Executive Director, helped found in the 1980's. Unique in her twentyyear leadership role in a men's fraternal organization, she was the spark that continually advanced the spirit and the services of the fraternity. The 35,000 alumni and 2,500 undergraduate members of DKE will greatly miss her. Her unique package of skills included an eye for decorating, and she was President of Park Avenue Designs, her own interior design firm. An early and strong admirer of President Bush, in the 2000 elections Susan single handedly organized ''Grosse Pointers for George W. Bush,'' hosting a breakfast during the primaries and serving as the official greeter for an early Economic Club of Detroit campaign visit. She and David continued as proud members of the Republican National Finance Committee until her death. They relocated to Washington, DC from their Grosse Pointe Farms, MI. home, where they had resided for 15 years, in February 2001. She was a graduate of Dwight School for Girls in Englewood, NJ, Bennett College, and attended Finch College. An avid sailor, she directed junior sailing programs at the Shelter Island Yacht Club and Grosse Pointe Club. Susan was a sustaining member of the Junior League of Washington, DC and a member of the Grosse Pointe Junior League Gardeners. She also held memberships in the Yale Club of New York, the University Club of Washington DC, the Grosse Pointe Club, and the Detroit Club. A member of St. Alban's Episcopal Church in Washington, she had previously served on the vestry of St. Elizabeth's Church in Ridgewood, NJ, and directed its children's choir. Survived by husband David Kenneth Easlick, Jr., daughter Susan Ackerson Holmes and fiance Sean Thomas Cosgrove, daughter Elisabeth Holmes McKean and son-in-law George Edwin McKean III, stepdaughter Sarah Jane Easlick, stepson David Kenneth Easlick III, grandchildren George Edwin McKean IV, Michael Edmunds McKean, her West Highland White Terrier ''Poppy,'' and the many good friends around the world, with whom she stayed in constant contact. A memorial service will be held at St. Alban's Episcopal Church, Washington DC on January 21, 2002 at 11:00 AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Rampant Lion Foundation, the Educational Foundation of Delta Kappa Epsilon Fraternity, 2238 47th Street NW, Washington, DC, 20007.
      