
        HARDEN-Dr. Jean. Died of cancer January 2, 2002, at Scripps Memorial Hospital, La Jolla. Memorial services for Dr. Harden will be held on Monday, January 7, at Mary Star of the Sea Catholic Church, 7727 Girard Ave., La Jolla, at 3:00P.M. Dr. Harden was a native of Rochester, NY. She began her modeling career at age 13 with Eastman Kodak Co. and B. Forman Dept. Store, later earning a scholarship to Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, NY where she studied fashion design. She was featured on the cover of numerous magazines including Parade, Look and Life. When she married she used her public relations flair to help her husband, Frank E. Harden, build two successful companies, Harden Furniture Co. and The Camden Wire Co. In the 1950s while working for Bausch and Lomb Optical, Ms. Harden was selected by the U.S. Government to participate in a tour of the Soviet Union to educate the USSR on ''what the women of the 50's were really like''. Her next career was on television. Her TV shows took her from Rochester to Miami where she had an early morning TV show, news spots, cooking demonstrations, interviews, exercise shows, and even did the weather. While in Miami Ms. Harden became one of the first woman stockbrokers in the state of Florida, catering to a large and mostly wealthy female client base. Dr. Harden moved to Italy in the 1960s where she lived and concentrated on her artistic talents. After 5 years she returned to the U.S., making her home in La Jolla, CA. She earned her Ph.D in art Therapy in the 1980s. Until 2001, she continued to teach art classes, most recently for the Parks and Recreation Department in Ja Jolla, encouraging new students to paint. Dr. Harden's paintings are in many outstanding private collections throughout the world. Dr. Harden was active in community activities and organizations including the San Diego Opera, The Museum of Modern Art in La Jolla, The Charter 100, ChildHelp USA, American Cancer Society, the American Lung Association, and the Food and Wine Club. Dr. Harden is survived by her two daughters, Sheila Harden of La Jolla, CA, and Michelle Sandler of Miami, FL., and three grandchildren, Andrea Harden, Matthew Sandler, and Nathaniel Sandler. The family requests that instead of flowers contributions be made to one of the following charities: National Jewish Medical & Research Center, 1400 Jackson Street, Denver, CO 80206; American Cancer Society, and ChildHelp USA San Diego Chapter, P.O. Box 2156, La Jolla, CA. 92038.
      