
        FRACCHIA-Alfred Andrew, M.D. On January 27, 2002, after a long illness. A nationally recognized surgical oncologist with an expertise in breast cancer, he practiced at Memorial Hospital Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center for approximately 50 years. A native New Yorker, he completed his undergraduate education at Villanova University in 1937 and received his Doctor of Medicine degree from Georgetown University in 1941. After his internship in Washington D.C., he spent five years with the United States Naval operation in the Pacific theater during WWII. He served his nation as Lieutenant Commander onboard the USS Hornet Aircraft Carrier and Admiral King's flagship, the USS Dauntless. He is survived by his loving wife of 56 years, ''Timmie,'' seven children: John, Paul, Robert, Alfred, Diane, Claudia and Michael; his sister, Vivian Bottari, two nephews, three nieces and nineteen grandchildren. Services on January 30, 3-5 & 7-9 PM at Fairchild Sons, 1570 Northern Boulevard in Manhasset, New York. Mass of Christian Burial is at St. Mary's R.C. Church at 10 AM on Thursday, January 31, 2002 with interment immediately following at Holy Rood Cemetery in Westbury, New York.
        FRACCHIA-Alfred A., M.D. The Board of Trustees and Medical Board of Lenox Hill Hospital mourn the death of Alfred A. Fracchia, M.D., a distinguished member of our Department of Surgery and father of our esteemed colleague, John A. Fracchia, M.D., Chief of Urology. Dr. Fracchia was a dedicated physician who exemplified the highest standards of his profession. We honor his memory and extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. James S. Marcus, Chairman, Board of Trustees Gladys George, President & CEO Valavanur A. Subramanian, M.D., Director, Department of Surgery Allen H. Collins, M.D., M.P.H., President, Medical Board
        FRACCHIA-Alfred Andrew, M.D. The Board of Directors and members of Metropolitan Lithotriptor Associates and Allied Urological Services express their condolences to John Fracchia, M.D, Executive Vice-President for Professional Relations on the passing of his father. Bernard Fruchtman, MD and CEO David Mandel, President
      