
        MOSES-William A. Of New York City, January 3, 2002. With great sorrow we mourn his sudden passing. He leaves behind his son Henry Winston Moses from his first marriage to Joan Tiger Morse (deceased), his son Andrew Ferdinand Moses and daughter Cynthia M. Moses-Manocherian from his second wife and devoted friend Hannah Kaufmann Moses, and his ex wife Bernice Schwartz. He was the esteemed father-in-law and friend of Jeffrey Manocherian and Marcia Moses, beloved grandfather of Olivia, Margo and Amanda, brother to Eugene (deceased) and Robert and admired leader of all who worked for and with him. William championed the redevelopment of disadvantaged communities in New York City devastated by the effects of decades of rent control laws and led the battle, with his close friend Sheldon Katz, in the late 1960s and 70s to win control of the Rent Stabilization Association (RSA) where he remained on the Executive Committee of the Board, passionate about the organization's purpose and devoted to his colleagues. He cofounded the Community Housing Improvement Program (CHIP), dedicated to the issues of small property owners, where he remained Chairman Emeritus, always devoted to its members and leaders. Together these two organizations represent all rent-regulated apartments in New York City. He was a life long member of the Real Estate Board of New York, member of the Board of Directors of the Realty Advisory Board and accomplished Chairman of his family real estate investment firm. A graduate of the High School of Music and Art, William played the saxophone, clarinet and bassoon in orchestras including in Carnegie Hall before serving in the Navy at the end of WWII and in 1977 was one of the first Americans to travel to China with his architect and friend William Gleckman. He graduated from Syracuse University and received an MBA from Columbia University Business School in 1952. He was passionate about sailing, skiing, photography, China and the Civil War and was a dedicated congregant of Temple Emanu-El. Bill and his extraordinary spirit will live on in all who knew him. Services Tuesday, January 8, 2002, at 11:30 A.M., Frank E. Campbell Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St.
        MOSES-William A. Of New York City, January 3, 2002. With great sorrow, we mourn his sudden passing. He leaves behind his son Henry Winston Moses from his first marriage to Joan Tiger Morse (deceased), his son Andrew Ferdinand Moses and daughter Cynthia M. Moses-Manocherian from his second wife and devoted friend Hannah Kaufmann Moses. He was the esteemed father-inlaw and friend of Jeffrey Manocherian and Marcia Moses. Beloved grandfather of Olivia, Margo and Amanda. Brother to Eugene (deceased) and Robert and admired leader of all who worked for and with him. William was a dedicated congregant of Temple Emanu-El and his extraordinary spirit will live on in all who knew him . Services are Tuesday, January 8, 2002, at 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St.
        MOSES-William A. The Board of Directors and staff of The Rent Stabilization Association mourn the loss of William A. Moses, an Executive Committee member of the board of the RSA and a principal architect of its mission and goals. An ardent defender of private property rights, Mr. Moses provided invaluable leadership, solutions and ideas promoting the growth and development of the RSA. He was tenacious, resourceful and inventive in the pursuit of solutions to critical housing issues that beset New York as a result of rent controls and served as an influential member of other real estate and civic organizations. Mr. Moses offered insight and guidance in his advocacy of private property rights as the key to the vibrancy and vitality of New York City. He will be greatly missed as a leader in the housing community, an innovator and friend. Our deepest condolences to the extended Moses family. Joseph Strasburg, President Arnold Goldstein, Chairman
      