
        BRANDIN-Ake. Of Ossining, New York died in the early hours, Monday, January 21, succumbing to congestive heart failure after a long and difficult illness. He was 77 years old. Husband, father and grandfather, he is held in loving memory by wife Greta, sons Jan and Per and his grandchildren Nina and Anna who are all immeasurably grateful to have shared his life. Born in Malmo, Sweden, Mr. Brandin rose above difficult childhood circumstances to enjoy a long, successful career in international reinsurance. He had a remarkable facility with mathematics and briefly considered becoming a teacher before beginning his reinsurance career in 1950 at AEquitas in Malmo, Sweden where he worked until 1954. He moved to Atlas Reinsurance Company in Stockholm where he stayed until 1959. Mr. Brandin was recruited by Casten von Otter to immigrate to Toronto, Canada as Assistant Manager of Gerling Global Reinsurance Company, and then became Manager in 1962, and Assistant General Manager in 1963. In 1964, Mr. Brandin was offered the opportunity to represent Gerling Global Reinsurance Company of Cologne for the American market and became President of the New York office in 1967. In 1969, he additionally took over as President of Gerling Global in Toronto and also became President of Gerling Global General Insurance Company in Toronto in 1970. Mr. Brandin's dynamic innovative management style was responsible for turning the companies into profitable enterprises. In the 1970s, he expanded the operation and became President of Gerling Mexico while also establishing branch offices of the New York office in San Francisco, Los Angeles and Boston. New Canadian offices were opened in Calgary and Vancouver. Mr. Brandin considered this period to be among the most gratifying and exciting times of his career. In 1980, Mr. Brandin took on a new challenge and started his own company, StellaRe Management Corporation, to manage two newly created reinsurance companies, Hansa Re of America and Zurich Re of New York. He had a true passion for his work and enjoyed many close business relationships. His longest working associations were with Gunter Dahling of Sleepy Hollow, New York and Ulla Sjoo of New York City. He retired in 1991. He will be remembered for his generosity of spirit, his keen intellect, and charm. His ability to contribute to the success of colleagues and family gave him the greatest happiness. A Memorial Service was held in Tarrytown, N.Y. on January 25, 2002. Funeral services will be held in Malmo, Sweden in mid-February. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the American Heart Association, Donation Processing Center, P.O. Box 3049, Syracuse, NY 13220-3049.
      