
        SCHILLER-Carl, M.D. Beloved husband and best friend of Lynn C. Schiller. Devoted father of Billy, Alice, and Phyllis and Warren Blumenthal. Loving grandfather of Ian and Tanya. Loving brotherin-law, uncle, great-uncle and great-great-uncle. He created the Plastic Surgery Department at Maimonides Medical Center in 1952. He loved his profession and was dedicated to it and always said, ''Don't let work interfere with your pleasure.'' Contributions to Hadassah or the Carl Schiller Memorial Fund at Maimonides Hospital Department of Plastic Surgery will be appreciated. Services 12 Noon, Tuesday, ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel,'' 91st St. and Amsterdam Ave.
        SCHILLER-Carl, MD. The entire family of Maimonides Medical Center extends its deepest sympathy to the family of Dr. Carl Schiller. A brilliant surgeon, Dr. Schiller served Maimonides for more than 54 years. He was the former Director of the Division of Plastic Surgery. We offer sincere condolences to his wife Lynn and the entire Schiller family. He will be greatly missed. Martin D. Payson Chairman, Board of Trustees Stanley Brezenoff President
        SCHILLER-Carl, M.D. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Carl Schiller, on January 27. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held today, January 29, 12 noon, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave at 91 St. 212-769-4400. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        SCHILLER-Carl, MD. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member, Carl Schiller, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Lynn and their children. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Frank D'Ambrosio, President Charles Baraf, Secretary
        SCHILLER-Carl, M.D. Dr. Joseph N. Cunningham and Dr. David Feldman of the Department of Surgery at Maimonides Medical Center, on behalf of all our Attendings, wish to offer our most sincere condolences to Lynn and all of Carl's family. He was a loyal and faithful member of our faculty for decades and his many contributions will never be forgotten. His cheerful face and warm presence will always remain in our fondest memories.
      