
        SPIELMAN-William. Beloved son of Rose, adored husband of BetteAnn, cherished father of Jayne and Stephen Baumgarten, Rachel and Eric Ceder, Dodi & Jonathan Spielman, grandfather of Hannah, Sarah, Sam, Talia, Ethan, Micah, Jonah, and Ava, loving brother of Stanley. Vice President of Independent Chemical Corp, Bill's creative energy and passion for community, characterized his ardent involvement in many organizations. Bill served as Past President of The Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County where he dedicated himself to the growth and enhancement of The School, including the founding of Solomon Schechter High School of Long Island. Bill was an Associate Trustee of North Shore Hospital, Manhasset, NY, Fellow For Life of The Metropolitan Museum of Art, NY, NY, member of The Commission of The Holocaust Memorial and Educational Center of Nassau County, member of The Chancellor's Council of The Jewish Theological Seminary, NYC, Past President of Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn, NY, Chair of The Chemical Division of UJA-Federation, Member of The Board and Trustee of The Davidson School of Education and member of The Board of The Sid Jacobson Jewish Community Center in East Hills, NY (where he was an avid swimmer). For his dedicated and active involvment over the years, Bill was honored by many organizations including Israel Bonds, The Jewish Theological Seminary, Temple Beth Sholom, and The Solomon Schechter High School of Long Island. He is remembered by his family and many friends for his passion, charismatic warmth, love of children, sense of humor, leadership, enthusiasm and integrity. Always in motion, alway creating, Bill was an inspiration and a source of strength for all who knew him. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County, Barbara Lane, Jericho, NY 11753; 516-935-1441. Funeral services will be held at 11 A.M. Wednesday, January 30, 2002 at Temple Beth Sholom, 401 Roslyn Road, Roslyn Heights, New York 11577; 516-621-2288.
        SPIELMAN-William. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of William Spielman, a cherished friend and leader of UJA-Federation. Mr. Spielman expressed a dedication to improving the lives of those less fortunate through his extraordinary generosity and commitment to our beneficiary agencies. He was admired for his work as a trustee of the Sid Jacobson Jewish Community Center, an affiliated agency of UJA-Federation. His philanthropic endeavors included helping to improve Jewish day school education in the New York area. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mr. Spielman's mother, Rose; to his wife, Bette Ann; to his daughter, Jayne, and her husband, Stephen; to his daughter, Rachel, and her husband, Eric; to his son, Jonathan, and wife, Dodi; to his eight grandchildren; and to the entire Spielman family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        SPIELMAN - William. Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County/High School of Long Island mourns the loss of its immediate past president. A man of caring and vision, Bill was the driving force behind the founding of our high school and the purchase of property for the future home of our school. No greater friend to continuity and Conservative Jewish Education could ever be found. We will miss his steadfast support and guidance. With heartfelt condolences to Bette Ann and the family. Beth Ostrow, President Susan Aberbach, Board Chair The Board of Directors, Faculty, Students and Staff
        SPIELMAN-William. The Employees of Independent Chemical Corp mourn the loss of their esteemed friend. As Corporate Vice President and Director, Bill Spielman dedicated himself over many years to the growth of our Company, and to the well being of all of its employees. Our condolences and deepest sympathy to his wife Bette-Ann, brother Stanley, son, Jonathan, daughters, Jayne and Rachel, and their entire family. Bill will be greatly missed.
        SPIELMAN-William. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member, past President and community leader. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Bette Ann and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President
        SPIELMAN - William. Beloved brother of the late Marvin Spielman. Our heartfelt condolences to Grandma Rose, aunt Bette-Ann, uncle Stanley, cousins Jane, Rachel, Jon and their families. We are deeply saddened by your tragic loss. Spielman-Levitsky-Torker Family
        SPIELMAN-William. We mourn the passing of the father of our esteemed member Jonathan Spielman and pray that the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Young Israel of Great Neck Yaacov Lerner, Rabbi Michael Frank, President
        SPIELMAN-William. There are very few people in this world who make a difference. Bill was one of those few. His energy, enthusiasm and positive nature will be sorely missed. We have lost a dear and loving friend who will forever be in our hearts. Beth and Ron Ostrow
        SPIELMAN-William. A gladiator of unequaled strength, sensitivity, leadership and love. He will forever serve as our role model. Sandy and Steve Seltzer
      