
        PETERKIN-Katharine Urban. Of Darien, CT, died at her home on January 3, 2002. She was 82. Mrs. Peterkin had been involved in local activities such as the Yellow Balloon and Tots and Teens consignment shops, the Darien/New Canaan Smith Club, the Junior League, and New York City's Foreign Policy Association. With her husband DeWitt Peterkin, Jr., who predeceased her, she was a member of the Tokeneke Beach Club, the Wee Burn Country Club, the Noroton Yacht Club and Ox Ridge Hunt Club. Before his death, Mr. Peterkin had worked for 60 years with JP Morgan, where his positions included Vice-Chairman of the Board and member of the Director's Advisory Council. Mrs. Peterkin was born in Buffalo, New York on May 17, 1919, to the late Florence Zeller Urban and George P. Urban. Her father was head of Buffalos George Urban Milling Company, as was his father and grandfather before him. The Urban family has figured very prominently in Buffalo industry and civic life for well over 150 years and continue to do so. Mrs. Peterkin's great-grandfather was a pioneer in the use of electric power and in 1899 was the first to operate a milling company with electricity generated by Niagara Falls. Mrs. Peterkin graduated from the Masters School and, in 1941, from Smith College. She then became a copywriter with the Young & Rubicam advertising agency in New York City before her marriage in 1948 to Mr. Peterkin. Besides her husband, Mrs. Peterkin is predeceased by her sisters Florence Wyper and Ada Marie Urban, as well as her son Christopher Cameron Peterkin. She is survived by her brother Henry Zeller Urban and his family, as well as her children Clare, DeWitt III, George, Kate, and Patrick, and three grandchildren, Jennifer, Stephanie and William. A funeral service will be held at Darien's St. Luke's Episcopal Church's Chapel on Tuesday, January 8, at 3 PM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Smith College Alumnae Fund, the Masters School Alumnae/i Fund at Dobbs Ferry, and Amnesty International.
      