
        KIMMEL-Edward A. Died on Thursday, January 3, 2002. Born on April 2, 1911. Beloved husband of Lucille for over 67 years. Loving and caring father of Joan K. Eigen and the late Alan Kimmel, and father-in-law of Robert Eigen. Adoring grandfather of Wendy Haigney, David Eigen, Deborah Barth, Julie Kimmel, Vicky Kimmel, and David Kimmel. Great grandfather of Emily, Lexi and Zachary Haigney, Max Eigen, Sam, Nathan and Torey Barth and Erin Adams. Oldest brother of Martin, Arnold and the late Seymour Kimmel. He was a pillar of the Palm Beach, Florida, community and cared dearly for both his family, his friends and for those in need. We will miss you dearly, but you will always be with us in our hearts, our souls and in our minds. Services will be held on Sunday, January 6, 2002 at 12:45 PM, Temple Emanu-el in Palm Beach. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in Mr. Kimmel's memory to the Cancer Center at Albert Einstein College of Medicine. For information call Quattlebaum Funeral Home: 561-832-5171.
        KIMMEL-Edward A. In fondest memory to our brother, whose love, guidance and counsel over all these years will surely and sorely be missed. With Lucille at his side, they gave the entire family strength, comfort and encouragement. With love and affection, Martin and Arnold Kimmel
        KIMMEL-Edward A. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a dear friend, Benefactor and, for many years, a distinguished member of our Board of Overseers, whose wisdom and counsel will be sorely missed. With his wife, Lucille, he participated greatly in the growth and development of our institution, dedicating a floor in the memory of their son, Alan, at the Albert Einstein Cancer Center, and establishing a scholarship fund for M.D.-Ph.D. students. To Mrs. Kimmel; to their daughter, Joan Eigen, an Einstein Overseer; son-in-law, Robert Eigen, a past chairman of the College's Men's Division, and to the entire family, we offer our deepest sympathy. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Robert M. Beren, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        KIMMEL-Edward A. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Edward A. Kimmel, and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary
        KIMMEL-Edward A. The officers, directors and associates of Kimco Realty Corporation express their deepest sympathy to the family of our longtime friend, Edward A. Kimmel. Kimco Realty Corporation
        KIMMEL-Edward A. Eddie was a wonderful partner, friend and mentor for over fifty years. We will miss him very much. Shirley and Milton Cooper
      