
        FRACKMAN-Richard B. On January 2, 2002, at age 78. After bravely battling many illnesses. He is survived by his beloved wife Noel. Loving father of Dru Pyne. Adored grandfather of Dylan. Dear brother of Robert J. Frackman. His was a life of service to his country, community and family. He was a Captain in the Army Air Force during World War II, the recipient of the Greenville-Edgemont Silver Box Award. President of the Metropolis Country Club, Trustee of Sarah Lawrence College (1977-1987). Member of the Securities Exchange Industry Association, Arbitrator for the New York Stock Exchange Arbitrator Board. Chairman of the Purchase College Council, appointed by Governor George E. Pataki, and New York State Republican Committeeman. He always shouldered responsibility and was tireless in helping all of his dear family and friends. Funeral services Friday, January 4th, 1:30PM, at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of your choice.
        FRACKMAN-Richard. Purchase College State University of New York mourns the loss of its treasured friend, Richard B. Frackman, who was Chair of the Purchase College Council and trustee of the Purchase College Foundation. Mr. Frackman was appointed to the College Council by Governor George Pataki in 1996 and later Council Chair in 1998. He was a member of the Executive Committee of the President's Club at the College since 1992. Mr. Frackman was a major benefactor with his beloved wife, Noel, of the Dr. Noel and Richard B. Frackman Graduate Program in Art History. He was a member of the Director's Circle at the Neuberger Museum of Art and was a patron of The Performing Arts Center. Richard Frackman was a tireless advocate for Purchase College and most generous contributor. We extend our heartfelt symphony to Dr. Noel Frackman and his daughter, Dru Pyne. Thomas J. Schwarz, President, Purchase College Emily Grant, Chair, Purchase College Foundation Kathleen McCreary, Vice Chair, Purchase College Council
        FRACKMAN-Richard B. The Board of Directors of the Friends of the Neuberger Museum of Art mourns the passing of friend and supporter Richard Frackman, husband of fellow Board member, Dr. Noel Frackman, and extends heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Lucinda Gedeon, Director Susan Dubin, Chair Neuberger Museum of Art Purchase College
        FRACKMAN-Richard B. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Richard B. Frackman. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
      