
        REBOUSSIN - Marcel Auguste (April 26, 1906-January 15, 2002). Died in Williamsburg on January 15th after a brief illness. He was 95. A Professor of French with the Department of Modern Languages at the College of William and Mary (1946-1968), he is survived by his son Roland, two grandsons and a great-granddaughter. Sylvia, his wife of 60 years and a longtime elementary teacher in Williamsburg, died in 1992. He was born in Chateau-Renault, France and maintained his French citizenship after seventy years residence here. He attended Ecole Normale Superieure (training as a teacher's college instructor) in St. Cloud, a suburb of Paris. There he met Sylvia Lesser, an American college student from Kansas City traveling with fellow students from Columbia University Teacher's College. Around 1930, Marcel arrived in New York City having won a scholarship to study English at Columbia University on the basis of a thesis on ''Moby Dick''. Following a renewed courtship, the couple married on August 27, 1932. Marcel's first job was as Civilian Instructor of French with the US Military Academy at West Point. Roland was born in 1935, while they resided at the West Point Bachelors' Quarters. In June the family moved to France. They lived in Evreux, Normandy for three years while Marcel taught Ecole Normale. There he met lifelong friends, painter Paul Perraudin and poet Pierre Menanteau, and passed his exams for the Aggregation at the Sorbonne. After the death of his mother in 1939, Marcel returned to his former job at West Point again, leaving his wife and son in Washington, DC. He sailed across a much more dangerous Atlantic Ocean with the goal of liberating his country from Nazi occupation. On his 36th birthday in 1942 he left Halifax with a convoy of 24 ships. After a brief detainment by the British authorities, he finally met DeGaulle in London and was promoted to Captain in the Free French Army. Marcel was assigned to a military liaison position at Pointe-Noire, French Equatorial Africa. He arrived in Brazzaville in September 1942. He was ordered to Morocco and then Paris towards the end of the war, spending a short time at the front as Free French forces re-occupied their country. He remained in Paris briefly after the war, before returning to his family in the US. Marcel. Marcel took a job teaching French at William and Mary in 1946. He was a dedicated professor who loved teaching and publishing his research. He kept a fine garden at his residence in Skipwith Farms.
      