
        GOLDEN-Joseph Francis, Jr., of Teaneck NJ, died in his home on January 7, 2002. Born in 1932 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to Joseph Francis Golden, Sr. and Mary Gara Golden, he graduated from Penn Charter School in 1949 and from Princeton University in 1953, where he won the Ivy League batting title and contributed to Tiger teams that went to the College World Series and won the Ivy League Championship in 1953. After college he played professional baseball for the Philadelphia Athletics farm team in 1953 and 1954. After serving in the U.S. Army, he began his forty-year career at Milberg Factors Inc., in Manhattan, where he was President for many years. He was a nationally-ranked senior tennis player, avid golfer, and was a member of Hackensack and Arcola Golf Clubs in New Jersey and Colliers Reserve Country Club and Old Colliers Golf Club in Naples, Florida. He was a strong supporter of Loyola School in Manhattan, Penn Charter School in Philadelphia and of Princeton University, where he received the ''Robert L. Peters, Jr. '42 Award'' for his lifelong support of Princeton's baseball program. He is the beloved husband of Eileen (nee Walsh) Golden, father of Mary Frances and her husband Daniel Sponseller, Eileen W. Golden, Susan and her husband Victor Del Rio, and William and his wife Diane Golden; and grandfather of Julia and Daniel Sponseller, Joseph, Dylan and William Del Rio and Shannon, Katherine and Elizabeth Golden. The family has asked in lieu of flowers that contributions be made, in Mr. Golden's memory, to Loyola School 980 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10028, or to Saint Anne's School 542 8th Avenue South., Naples, Florida, 34102. Visitation will be held on Thursday, January 10, 2002 from 24pm and 7-9pm at the Volk Leber Funeral Home, 789 Teaneck Road, Teaneck, NJ, 07666, 201-836-0202. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held at 10:30 am on January 11, 2002 at Saint Ignatius Loyola Church, 980 Park Avenue (between 83rd and 84th Street) New York, New York, 10028 with interment immediately following at George Washington Memorial Park, Paramus, NJ.
        GOLDEN-Joseph. Uncle Joe: to a friend, a business partner and leader. Words cannot describe what you meant to me, my family and Milberg Factors Inc. My sincerest condolences to wife, Eileen and children Mary Fran, Eileen, Susan and Bill and all respective spouses and grandchildren. Dan Milberg
        GOLDEN-Joseph F. Jr. The partners and employees of Milberg Factors, Inc. deeply mourn the loss of our friend, colleague and partner, Joseph F. Golden Jr. For more than forty years, Joe was a part of our firm, rising to President in 1984 and then Vice Chairman in 2000. Joe was a man of unusual wisdom, intelligence, kindness and loyalty. His contributions to our firm are innumerable. He will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences go to Joe's wife, Eileen, his children, Mary Frances, Eileen, Susan and William, his sons-and daughter-in-law and his grandchildren.
        GOLDEN-Joseph F., Jr. We note with profound sorrow the sudden passing of our friend and client. He was a man of great intelligence, integrity, wit, and devotion to family and colleagues, and will be missed by all who knew him. Silverberg Stonehill & Goldsmith, P.C.
        GOLDEN-Joseph Jr. We will miss our friend Joe. He will be remembered as an honest and fair man of great integrity. An avid sportsman and a good friend, our condolences to his family. Murray Yenis Bob Rosenblum
      