
        SCHIFF-Stuart. Amy and I will miss you terribly. We worked closely together for 14 years and we enjoyed a lasting friendship for an additional 12 years. We grieve for Barbara and for Stephen and we will always fondly reflect smilingly on the hundreds of times we spent laughing together over those 26 years. Doodles, it's hard to believe that you are really gone; and I hope that if you happen to run into Eddie, that you will remind him that he still owes us money. With all of our love, Amy and Ronnie Goldberger
        SCHIFF-Stuart. I wish to express my sincere condolences to the entire family of Stuart Schiff. He was a legend in our business and I am grateful for having the pleasure of dealing with him for 20+ years of my career. I felt privileged to have served with him on REBNY's Grand Central Committee where I had seen him as recently as last Tuesday at the monthly meeting. My heart aches for his family. May his memory be a blessing. Billy Cohen
        SCHIFF-Stuart. On behalf of our entire organization, the principals of Newmark would like to express our profound sorrow to the family of Stuart Schiff upon the untimely passing of our cherished industry colleague, devoted husband and father. Stu was a fixture of the real estate industry for over twentyfive years and was respected by all. He will be sorely missed.
        SCHIFF-Stuart. The Board of Governors and Members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member Stuart Schiff. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife Barbara, and to all his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors Paul Seidenberg, President
        SCHIFF-Stuart I. We mourn the untimely passing of our respected associate and extend heartfelt condolences to Barbara and the family. After 30 years of dedicated service, he will truly be missed. Brause Realty Inc. Louis Brause, President David Brause, Vice President
        SCHIFF-Stuart I. We are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of our dear friend Stu. We will miss his wit and friendship as a colleague, on the golf course and all the times we spent together. Our warmest sympathies to Barbara, Stephen, Tammi and Carra. Ivan & Joan, David & Arleen
        SCHIFF-Stuart. We mourn the loss of our good friend and colleague. We will miss you and remember all the good times we shared over the last 27 years. Our deepest condolences to Barbara and the family. James and Bettina Emden
        SCHIFF-Stuart. We have enjoyed knowing you for so many years. You were a very special and kind person. We will miss you. This was a loss for all of us. Robin and Stephen Apple
        SCHIFF-Stuart. I will miss your smile, your loyalty, your consistency. Most of all, I will miss your appreciation of everything big and small. Stephen B. Siegel
      