
        BLOCK-Rabbi Morris J. As we note with great sorrow the passing of Rabbi Morris J. Block, we pause and remember the remarkable accomplishments of this man of good deeds and great empathy who served the developmentally disabled children and adults of Brooklyn and their families for over forty years. We extend our condolences to his wife Mildred, and sons Zvi, Paul and Robert and his entire family, as well as the entire family of BSSC / CROH / TRIUS. As we reflect on accomplishments that extended from this man's noble efforts, we carry on his good works in his name through the Block Institute, and in his lasting memory. Brooklyn School for Special Children / CROH / TRIUS Sam S. Fierstein, President Edmund DiGiacomo, Chairman of the Board Sondra L. Grunes, CEO
        BLOCK-Rabbi Morris J. It is with great sorrow that the BSSC, its officers, Board of Trustees and staff note the passing of our distinguished Executive Director and Founder Rabbi Morris J. Block. His friendship, his dedication and his never ending commitment to the welfare of our developmentally disabled children and adults will be his key of admission into the gates of Heaven. We are united as one voice offering our sympathies and condolences to his beloved wife, Mildred, his children, his grandchildren, his great-grandchildren and his entire family. We shall miss him. Brooklyn School for Special Children The Women's Organization Rita Rogel, President
        BLOCK-Rabbi Morris J. We note with great sorrow the loss of Rabbi Morris J. Block, a selfless visionary who put the needs of so many before his own. Rabbi Morris set the standard for excellence, expectations for success and the environment of respect that benefited the thousands of children, adults and families served by the Brooklyn School for Special Children and related programs of CROH and TRIUS. Rabbi Block created a place that inspired staff and made the impossible possible. The Consumers, Families & Staff Brooklyn School for Special Children / CROH / TRIUS
        BLOCK-Rabbi Morris J. We join Mildred, Zvi, Paul, Robert and the entire Block Family, in mourning the loss of our dear and loving friend Rabbi Morris J. Block. Though visibly departed, he will live in our minds and hearts as long as WE live. He was a man who cared for others, AND did something about it. None of us will ever forget that Rabbi Block lived! He has enriched us all, and rewarded us with wonderful memories. We are grateful he was our friend. Sandy, Alan, and Dean Grunes and the Kirchner Family
        BLOCK-Rabbi Morris J. It is with great sorrow that we mourn the loss of Brooklyn School for Special Children's Executive Director and Founder, Rabbi Morris J. Block. His commitment and dedication to the needs of developmentally disabled children, adults and their families serve as an inspiration to us all. Few men will match his accomplishments. Hendrix Street Day Nursery Faye Baranoff, President
        BLOCK-Rabbi Morris J. With deep sorrow we mourn the passing of Rabbi Morris J. Block, our friend & the founder of the Brooklyn School for Special Children. Mr. and Mrs. Eli Wolfson and Daughter, Belle Dr. & Mrs. David J. Wolfson and Family
      