
        VANCE-Cyrus R. Devoted husband of Grace Sloane Vance. Beloved father of Elsie, Amy, Grace, Camilla and Cyrus. Proud grandfather of Simon and Clare Vance and Kemal Askar. Honored father-in-law of Peggy Vance, Brigadier General (ret.) William Holmes and Atilla Askar. Died on Saturday, January 12, 2002. Funeral arrangements will be private. Contributions may be made in his memory to the UN Trust Fund in Support of Special Missions (Fund Code SZ), Yale University, the Cardiovascular Institute at Mount Sinai Hospital, New York.
        VANCE-Cyrus R. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital mourn the passing of Cyrus R. Vance, a prominent statesman, who served on the Mount Sinai Board of Trustees with dedication and distinction. Cyrus Vance was committed to health care at Mount Sinai and throughout New York City for many years, and his generous philanthropy included support of programs in patient care, research and medical education. Mr. Vance will be remembered for his loyalty and thoughtful generosity. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Grace Sloan Vance, his children, and the entire Vance family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman of the Boards, The Mount Sinai Medical Center Nathan Kase, Interim President and CEO The Mount Sinai Medical Center and Interim Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Barry R. Freedman, President and CEO The Mount Sinai Hospital
        VANCE-Cyrus R. The Officers, Directors and Staff of Japan Society join his many friends and admirers in mourning the passing of Cyrus R. Vance, one of America's greatest postwar statesman and a man of the highest personal integrity. Cy lead the Society as Chairman from 1985-1993 and was its Honorary Chairman thereafter. His vision and leadership enabled the Society to expand its programs and visibility, increase its endowment and enlarge its headquarters building. He maintained a lively commitment to the U.S. Japan relationship and an active participation in the Japan Society's activities. His wise advice and counsel will be greatly missed. We extend our deep condolences to his wife Gay and the family.
        VANCE-Cyrus Roberts. The Pilgrims of the U.S. are saddened to report the death on January 12 at 84 of our honored former vice president and the nation's distinguished statesman and to express our deepest sympathy to his wife Elsie and their children Elsie Nicoll, Amy Sloane, Grace, Camilla, Cyrus Jr. and their two grandchildren. Henry Luce III President Eben Pyne Treasurer Laurence Charles Windsor Secretary
        VANCE-Cyrus. The Board of Public Agenda joins the legions of his friends and admirers in mourning the death of our colleague and cofounder, Cyrus Vance. Modest, wise and constant in his guidance, his unassailable integrity earned lasting respect from all who knew him. Public Agenda will honor his memory by continuing to maintain those principles of fairness and honesty that he so ably personified and that serve as the bedrock for all we do.
        VANCE-Cyrus. The Center for International Health and Cooperation notes, with sadness and a deep sense of loss, the death of their Founding Member and sole Director Emeritus. He generously contributed wisdom, reputation, and warm friendship to our humanitarian efforts for those suffering the effects of war and disaster. Kevin M. Cahill, MD President
        VANCE-Cyrus. The Association of the Bar of the City of New York mourns the passing of Cyrus Vance, former President of the Association and leader without peer of the New York Bar. His conscience, brilliance, courage, judgment and humility survive him. They set a standard for the legal profession and leave a great legacy for all Americans.
        VANCE-Cyrus. The Board of Directors and staff of Volunteers of Legal Service mourn the death of our co-founder and chairman emeritus whose lifetime devotion to securing equal justice for the poor continues to inspire us all.
      