
        MOSES-William A. Of New York City, January 3, 2002. With great sorrow we mourn the sudden passing of William, revered father of Andrew Moses, Cynthia MosesManocherian and Henry Moses, devoted friend of the mother of his children Hannah Kaufmann Moses, esteemed father-in-law and friend of Jeffrey Manocherian and Marcia Moses, beloved grandfather of Olivia, Margo and Amanda, brother to Eugene (deceased) and Robert and admired leader of all who worked for and with him. William championed the redevelopment of disadvantaged communities in New York City devastated by the effects of decades of rent control laws and led the battle, with his close friend Sheldon Katz, in the late 1960s and 70s to win control of the Rent Stabilization Association (RSA), where he remained on the Executive Committee of the Board, passionate about the organization's purpose and devoted to his colleagues. He co-founded the Community Housing Improvement Program (CHIP), dedicated to the issues of small property owners, where he remained Chairman Emeritus, always devoted to its members and leaders. Together these two organizations represent the owners of all rent regulated apartments in New York City. He was a lifelong member of the Real Estate Board of New York, member of the Board of Directors of the Realty Advisory Board and accomplished Chairman of his family real estate investment firm. A graduate of the High School of Music and Art, William played the saxophone, clarinet and bassoon in orchestras, including in Carnegie Hall, before serving in the Navy at the end of WWII, and in 1977 was one of the first Americans to travel to China with his architect and friend William Gleckman. He graduated from Syracuse University and received a M.B.A. from Columbia University Business School in 1952. He was passionate about sailing, skiing, photography, China and the Civil War and was a dedicated congregant of Temple Emanu-El. Bill and his extraordinary spirit will live on in all who knew him. Services Tuesday, January 8, 2002, at 11:30 AM, Frank E. Campbell Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.
        MOSES-William A. The members of Community Housing Improvement Program, Inc., mourn the loss of William A. Moses, a founder and longtime officer of our association; an indefatigable fighter for property rights; an advisor to countless small property owners; and a good friend. Bill's strength and ideals were an inspiration to us all and we offer our deepest sympathies to his wife, children and grandchildren.
      