
        VANCE-Cyrus R. The Fellows of the America-China Forum join with the Directors and staff of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations in recording our deep sorrow in the loss of the vision, leadership, counsel and friendship of Cyrus Vance. A world-respected statesman and outstanding national leader, he brought to the U.S.-China relationship, as he did to an extraordinarily broad agenda of domestic and global issues in which he interested himself, exceptionally wise judgement coupled with uncommon courage and profound humanitarianism. His loss will be deeply felt. Henry A. Kissinger, Chair, America-China Forum Herbert J. Hansell, President, America-China Forum Carla A. Hills, Chair, National Committee on U.S.-China Relations John L. Holden, President, National Committee on U.S.-China Relations
        VANCE-Cyrus R. The Board and Staff of the Fund for Modern Courts are deeply saddened by the passing of our former Chair, and Chair Emeritus, Cyrus R. Vance. Among Cyrus Vance's many legacies is a lifelong devotion to the rule of law, and a commitment to making sure that our courts operate efficiently, effectively, and above all, fairly for all citizens. From his work in the 1970s Chairing a Gubernatorial Task Force on Court Reform, to his efforts on behalf of Modern Courts, he remained steadfast and resolute in his determination to improve our system of justice. He will be greatly missed. Dean John D. Feerick, Robert M. Kaufman, Robert MacCrate, Chair Emeriti, Steven Zeidman, Executive Director
        VANCE-Cyrus R. The Board and Staff of The Council on Foreign Relations mourn the loss of longtime friend and member, Cyrus R. Vance. He served as Vice Chairman of The Council Board, Board Member, and until his death, Director Emeritus. His principled dedication to this country's conduct of international affairs remains an example for all, and we will miss his guidance. Peter G. Peterson, Chairman Maurice R. Greenberg, Vice Chairman Carla A. Hills, Vice Chairman Leslie H. Gelb, President
      