
        GLYNN-Robert B. Of Manhattan, died on January 6, 2002, after a short illness. Born in 1929 in Passaic, NJ, he was graduated from Harvard College in 1951, and from Harvard Law School in 1956. He was a founding partner of Becker, Glynn, Melamed & Muffly LLP, and Chairman of the Lampadia Foundation, a private foundation devoted to promoting education, culture and social work in Argentina, Brazil and Chile. Bob was a member of the Harvard Club and The Century Association. Much loved, he will be missed by a worldwide circle of friends and family who will always remember his thoughtful generosity, unshakeable loyalty, and never-failing wit. He is survived by his daughter Katherine, of Boston; his step-daughter Hannah Parker, of Brookline, Massachusetts; his step-son Jonathan Parker, of Heartland, Vermont; and their mother Mary E. Jackson. He also leaves his beloved companion Savannah; his sister Muriel Glynn Newmann, of Philadelphia; and his brother Dr. Eugene Glynn, of Ridgefield, Connecticut. In lieu of flowers contributions can be made to the Commentary Fund or any fund promoting classical music. A small funeral service will be held on Tuesday, January 8, at 5 PM, at Frank E. Campbell Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St, and a larger memorial service will be held at a later date.
        GLYNN-Robert. His many friends at the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation mourn the passing of an engaging man whose intelligence and high spirits impressed all of us who spent time with him. His commitment to the life of the mind was extraordinary, and the generous support the Guggenheim Foundation received during his years as Board Chairman of the Lampadia Foundation ensures the appointment of many more Guggenheim Fellowships to artists, scholars, and scientists than would otherwise be possible. A man of wide interests and strong views, Bob Glynn loved to laugh and to make others laugh. He will be sorely missed. Joseph A. Rice, Chairman, Board of Trustees Joel Conarroe, President
      