
        ABOODI-Esther, 60 years old. Died on December 30, 2001. Beloved wife of Oded. Devoted mother of Henry and Monica Aboodi, David and Karen Aboodi, and Steven and Abigail Hoffman. Cherished grandmother of Gabrielle, Michelle, Jacob, Lauren, Rachel, Avery, Nicole, Talia, Aaron, Eric and Phoebe. Service on Tuesday, 10:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th at Amsterdam. Contributions can be made in her memory: New York Presbyterian Hospital, Cardiovascular Center, Irving Pavillion, attn: Dr. Allan Schwartz, 161 Fort Washington Avenue, Room 551, NY, NY 10032, or Center for Women's Health, attn: Dr. Elsa Giardina, 16 E. 60th Street, New York, New York 10022.
        ABOODI-Esther. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Esther Aboodi, beloved wife of Oded, mother of Henry, David, and Abi, and grandmother of Gabrielle, Michelle, Jacob, Lauren, Rachel, Avery, Nicole, Talia, Aaron, Eric, and Phoebe. We will miss her terribly. We will miss her courage, strength and indefatigable spirit. We will remember her as the world's more caring, sincere, and selfless individual-always there for support, counseling, and understanding; always volunteering to make the world a better place. Our heart and soul will live forever, as will our memories. With all our love, Candy, Rich, Karyn, and Bruce
        ABOODI-Esther. We mourn the loss of Esther, a genuine and giving person, a true friend. She was always there for everyone. We will always treasure our times together. Our love and deepest sympathies are with the Aboodi family during this difficult time. Audrey and Aaron Singer and Family
        ABOODI-Esther. We mourn the passing of our beloved friend, Esther. She cared deeply about her friends and family and was a source of inspiration to all. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Aboodi family, whose grief we share. Sandra and Bert W. Wasserman and family
        ABOODI-Esther. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton and Garrison express profound sorrow at the death of Esther Aboodi. We express our deepest sympathies to her husband, our friend and colleague, Oded Aboodi, to their children, grandchildren and to all other members of the family.
        ABOODI-Esther. The Partners and Staff of Alpine Capital Group express their deep sorrow over the loss of Esther Aboodi, beloved wife of their Chairman Oded Aboodi, and loving mother and grandmother. Her strength and couraged has been an inspiration for us all, and will forever provide a guiding light to our future.
        ABOODI - Esther, Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends it deepest sympathy to her family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas
        ABOODI-Esther. Our deepest love and heartfelt prayers to the entire Aboodi family. We will miss Esther but know that the warmth of her heart and the light of her smile will live forever. Your family at TAG
        ABOODI-Esther. The lawyers of Kramer, Levin, Naftalis & Frankel express their deep sympathy to our good friend, Oded Aboodi, on the untimely passing of his beloved wife. Kramer Levin
        ABOODI-Esther. We grieve at the loss of our close friend. She was caring and generous to all. We shall miss her. With love, Dottie, Marty, Michele, Leslie and Eric
        ABOODI-Esther. We mourn the loss of one of our founders. Her caring and wisdom will be missed by all. Alpine Capital Bank
        ABOODI-Esther. A cherished friend, a woman of valor and a humanitarian nonpareil. Davida
      