
        VANCE-Cyrus R. Devoted husband of Grace Sloane Vance. Beloved father of Elsie, Amy, Grace, Camilla and Cyrus. Proud grandfather of Simon and Clare Vance and Kemal Askar, and honored father-in-law of Peggy Vance, Brig. Gen. (Ret.) William Holmes, and Atilla Askar. Died Saturday, January 12, 2002. Visitation on Thursday, January 10, 5-8PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. A funeral service will be held on Saturday, 11AM, at the Church of Heavenly Rest, 2 E. 90 St., NY, NY. Burial will be held at Arlington National Cemetery in Arlington, VA. on January 24 at 2PM. Contributions may be made in his memory to United Nations Trust Fund in Support of Special Missions (Fund Code SZ), First Ave. at 42nd St., NY, NY 10017; Yale University Memorial Program, Box 2038, New Haven, CT 06521-2038; Cardiovascular Institute, Mt. Sinai Hospital, Gustave Levy Pl., New York, NY 10128.
        VANCE-Cyrus R. The faculty and staff of the Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute at the Mount Sinai Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Cyrus R. Vance, a most significant advocate for the advancement of cardiovascular research and patient care. Cyrus Vance, as Chairman of the Institute's Advisory Board, shared our special commitment to improving the lives of those suffering from cardiovascular disease. He will be greatly missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Grace Sloane Vance, his children, and the entire family. Valentin Fuster, M.D., Ph.D. Director, The Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute Richard Gorlin, M.D., Heart Research Foundation Professor of Cardiology
        VANCE-Cyrus R. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Financial Services Volunteer Corps mourn the passing of Cyrus R. Vance, our co-founder and Honorary Chairman. Cyrus Vance was a man of vision and extraordinary integrity, whose high personal and professional standards set an example for all to follow. The efforts he made through this and other organizations to improve the lives of people around the globe and to seek peaceful solutions to some of the world's most challenging problems are a living legacy. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, children and grandchildren. John C. Whitehead, Co-Founder & Co-Chairman Paul A. Volcker, Co-Chairman John L. Walker, President J. Andrew Spindler, Exec Director
        VANCE-Cyrus R. The board and staff of New York Lawyers for the Public Interest mourn the passing of our founder and first board chairman, Cyrus R. Vance. In 1976, Cy Vance challenged the organized bar to make a serious institutional commitment to PRO BONO representation of the poor and underrepresented people of New York City. Under his leadership NYLPI has grown from 9 member firms in 1976 to nearly 100 today. His energetic leadership, wisdom, absolute integrity and compassion, as well as his lifelong dedication to public service, made him a unique role model for generations of lawyers. We shall miss him profoundly. James W. Rayhill, Chair Michael A. Rothenberg, Executive Director
        VANCE-Cyrus R. The Board of Directors, Members, and Staff of the United Nations Association of the USA mourn the loss of our dear friend, Cyrus R. Vance. A dedicated international list, Cyrus Vance was longtime Co-Chairman of UNA-USA's National Council. He enlightened others with wise counsel and lifelong devotion to the principles of international understanding. We extend deepest condolences to his wife and family. John S. Chalsty, Chairman John C. Whitehead, Past Chairman William H. Luers, President and CEO
        VANCE-Cyrus Roberts. The Pilgrims of the U.S. are saddened to report the death on January 12 at 84 of our honored former vice president and the nation's distinguished statesman and to express our deepest sympathy to his wife Elsie and their children Elsie Nicoll, Amy Sloane, Grace, Camilla, Cyrus Jr. and their two grandchildren. Henry Luce III President Eben Pyne Treasurer Laurence Charles Windsor Secretary
        VANCE-Cyrus R. The Board and Staff of Union Settlement Association mourn the passing of their illustrious Board member Cyrus R. Vance. He served the Settlement as Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Director and until his death, Honorary Director. We were privileged to benefit from his caring and concern for the residents of East Harlem. Stuart Meikeljohn, Chairman Board of Directors Ellen Simon, Executive Director
      