
        HAUG-Frederick J., 91. Formerly of Manhasset, N.Y. Died February 5, 2002 in New York City. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted and adored father of Gretchen Stone, Hedi White and father-in-law of Lewis Stone and Thomas White. Cherished grandfather of Pamela Stone-Humphrey and her husband Jim, Bart Stone and Timothy White. Proud great-grandfather of Riley Humphrey. Dear brother of Bertha Dean, Mina Cory and Elsie Haug. Caring uncle and granduncle of David Cory, Mina Kahofer, Daniel Cory, John Cory, Robert Dean, Frederick Dean and Barbara Dalally and their children. For over 50 years he owned and operated the George Haug Company, Inc. He was especially proud of transforming the harness shop established by his father in 1904 into Manhattan's premier auto service facility with factory appointments for both Rolls-Royce and Jaguar Motorcars. After his retirement in 1977, he began a second family business Haug Realty Corp, in which he was active to the end of his life. A former trustee of the Congregational Church of Manhasset, he was a past master and lifelong member of Hiram Masonic Lodge/a longtime member and past president of the Yorkville Lion's Club and a Director of the Manhattan Chamber of Commerce. He was an enthusiastic member of the Rolls-Royce owner's Club, where he was both a past National director and past president of the Atlantic region. Born in Yorkville and an alumnus of Stuyvesant High School, he was a passionate lover of New York City. He will always be remembered for his colorful and detailed memories of the Upper East Side and its many changes since his boyhood, as well as the history of the automobile as he experienced it firsthand. His larger than life personality and courtly manner attracted everyone. His clear insights and generosity changed many lives. He will be missed. Family will receive friends Friday. 2 to 4 and 6 to 8PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street. Funeral services Saturday, 11AM at Congregational Church of Manhasset, 1845 Northern Boulevard, Manhasset, N.Y. Interment Woodlawn Cemetery.
      