
        WITENBERG - Earl G., M.D. Professor Emeritus. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute notes with sorrow the profound loss of Earl G. Witenberg, M.D., who served as Director from 1963-1992. Dr. Witenberg's service for so many years, while extraordinary, was just one small measure of his singular, indefatigable, and all encompassing dedication to the White Institute. A larger than life personality, Earl's characteristic New England sparseness, straightforwardness, stubbornness and skepticism both intrigued and tantalized his colleagues and his students. Few people who came in contact with Earl left his compelling presence without a spirited story to tell about him. Earl's scholarship was profound and his curiosity boundless. During his early tenure at the White Institute, his research vision encompassed a wide range of areas. He initiated a Visiting Distinguished Lecturer Series and he spearheaded innovative conferences to which he invited scholars from related fields, and of many schools of thought, to enrich the Institute's intellectual foundation. Earl insisted on challenging conventional thinking and in eschewing dogmatism; thereby both contributing to the education and training of creative thinkers who could embrace ambiguity, and shaping the essential and lasting identity of the White Institute. Earl's pragmatism was no where more evident than in his leadership of the Institute. He brought it from financial uncertainty to economic solvency, and purchased a landmark building. He felt that an institute could not sustain itself unless it was constantly responsive to change. He was a decisive leader: tough, persuasive, courageous, canny and occasionally irascible. Dr. Witenberg had a superb reputation as a psychoanalyst. He was concerned with the real and actual nature of the analyst's involvement with the patient, and his deep respect for the ''other'' along with his penetrating views into character made him a widely sought after and much respected analyst and supervisor. Honest to a fault, and curiously but touchingly vulnerable, Earl had little tolerance for inauthenticity. A gallant soul, Earl remained committed to the Interpersonal tradition, and he stood for the best that he, the Institute, and its graduates could offer. His legacy is enduring and more concretely forged by the Earl G. Witenberg Chair. The Chair is among the many honors awarded to him in 1992, and one which will go forward to promote the work in which he always felt privileged to engage. Our deep condolences to his wonderful family whom he loved without limit. Charles C. Harrington, Ph.D. President, Board of Trustees Joerg Bose, M.D. Director, The White Institute
        WITENBERG-Earl G., M.D. The Trustees, Officers and members of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis would like to express our sorrow for the loss of Dr. Earl Witenberg, past President and Charter Fellow of the Academy. He was an esteemed member, the recipient of the William V. Silverberg Award and our Presidential Award. We would also like to express our condolences to his wife Carol and his children Susan and Bill. Matthew A. Tolchin, M.D. President Cesar A. Alfonso, M.D. Secretary
      