
        ERDBERG-Carl B. 85. On January 31, 2002 in Durham, NC. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Betty. Cherished father of Erica Erdberg and Claudia and Jim Warburg. Adored grandfather of Emily and Anya Warburg. Honorary grandfather of Nina and Michael Frieman and Shana Frieman Bloom. Special ''GreatGrandpa Carl'' to Madisen Faye Anderson. Revered uncle and great-uncle of Laurel and Edward Gordon, Frederick and Susan Gang, Barbara Schlachet, Myra and Cyrus Segal and all of their children. Longtime companion of Claire Raff. Dr. Erdberg was an esteemed educator, the consummate teacher and administrator, a leader among ''the best and the brightest'' who devoted their lives to creating and maintaining the incomparable New York City Public School system during it's golden age. He was a graduate of Townsend Harris High School and the City College. He began teaching high school in 1937; became Chairman of English and Social Studies in 1953; elementary school principal in 1955; conducted two federal programs in 1966, one to prepare African-American teachers from the South to enter the New York City school system and the other, to train new high school principals to work successfully in the inner city. Dr. Erdberg became a high school principal in 1967 and then in 1970, Superintendent of District 1, Manhattan. He retired from the school system in 1973 to become a professor at Pace University and ultimately their Chairman of the Department of Educational Administration from which he retired in 1995. He was a consultant to the New York City school system's Board of Examiners and was Principal of the Rodeph Sholom Religious School for several decades. Dr. Erdberg was a longtime resident of Manhattan and had homes in Lake Worth, FL and Durham, NC. A man of enormous knowledge, talent and distinction who possessed as well, a warmth, caring and sense of humor that drew all to him. He will be missed greatly by his family, many friends and the legions of students, teachers and administrators who were fortunate enough to partake of his passionate brilliance. Services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and 76th Street, Sunday, February 3rd, 11:15AM. Family visiting at the Chapel Saturday evening, February 2nd, from 7-9PM.
      