
        ROSENTHAL-Adele. Born June 8, 1913 died at her home on Monday, February 11, 2002. An active, funloving mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, she enjoyed a fifty-five year marriage to the late Abner Rosenthal, M.D. She was a long time resident of Queens, an ardent supporter of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and the United Jewish Appeal, an avid golfer and a member of the Glen Oaks Country Club, where she headed the women's division for many years. She is survived by: her sister Dorothy Barnett; her son Mitchell S. Rosenthal, M.D., president of Phoenix House; her daughter Jane Rosenthal, chief executive officer of Menorah Home and Hospital; her daughterin-law Sarah Simms and son-inlaw Jack Braunstein; her grandchildren, Claudia Plepler, Alexis Proceller, and David Rosenthal; & six great-grandchildren. Services will be held Thursday, February 14 at 11:45AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Ave at 76 St. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made, in her name, to Phoenix House, 164 West 74 St, N.Y., N.Y., 10023 or to Menorah Home and Hospital, 871 Bushwick Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11221.
        ROSENTHAL-Adele. We express our profound sorrow at the passing of Adele Rosenthal, beloved mother of our Chief Executive Officer, Jane Rosenthal. Always the optimist, mentally and physically active throughout her life. Her intelligence, grace, style and dignity marked every aspect of her life and made her one of those few special people among us. Her love of family will inspire us always. She listened with a full heart and she gave with a full heart. She was the best that humanity had to offer. We extend our sympathy to her children, grandchildren and her entire family. All of us were blessed to have known her. Menorah Home & Hospital Fred Abrams, President Paul Melinger, Board Chairman Gary Kleinberg, Administrator
        ROSENTHAL-Adele. The entire Staff of Menorah Home & Hospital wish to extend their deepest sympathy to our CEO, Jane Rosenthal, on the passing of her mother Adele Rosenthal. Knowing Adele was a joyful adventure. Her love of life and idealistic spirit is her legacy. To all those whose lives she touched, she will live on. May her family be comforted by the incandescence of her life.
        ROSENTHAL-Adele. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Adele, wife of our former esteemed member, Abner Rosenthal, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Lowell Kwiat, President
        ROSENTHAL-Adele. Adele, forever you have been my friend; always caring. You were the personification of a lady! I will miss you so much. Love, Audrey Sevin.
        ROSENTHAL-Adele. A finer woman never walked this earth. Our heartfelt condolences to her children, Jane and Mitchell. We will miss her dearly. Abe and Jane Goren
      