
        BERBERICH-Dennis E. On behalf of the Board of Directors, Administration, and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc., we mourn the passing of our longtime Board member and dear friend. Dennis Berberich served on the hospital Board of Directors since 1985. He gave generously of his time, as First Vice-Chairman of the Board and member of the Executive, and Human Resources Committees of the hospital Board. His dedication and enthusiasm were an inspiration to all who had the privilege of knowing him. His wisdom, commitment and leadership contributed enormously to the growth and success of the hospital program of care. We will miss Dennis, both as a dedicated Board member and a true friend, and most of all as a member of the Calvary Family. We extend our condolences to his wife Jo-Ann, his children, and his grandchildren. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., MD Chairman of The Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President/ Executive Director Michael J. Brescia, MD Executive Medical Director James E. Cimino, MD, Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute Christopher P. Comfort, MD Medical Director Richard J. Kutilek, Chief Operating Officer
        BERBERICH-Dennis E. The Board of Directors of the Calvary Fund, Inc., mourn with sadness the loss of our Chairman of the Board, dear friend, and colleague, Dennis E. Berberich. His enthusiastic and dedicated efforts on behalf of the Fund and Calvary Hospital inspired us all. His overwhelming commitment to the mission of Calvary Hospital contributed to the success of two capital campaigns. Dennis' determination and leadership helped Calvary to become the first hospital in New York State to open a ''hospital within a hospital,'' Calvary Hospital-The Brooklyn Campus at Lutheran Hospital in Brooklyn, New York. We shall forever be thankful for all that Dennis has helped achieve for Calvary Hospital. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Jo-Ann, his children and his grandchildren. Calvary Fund, Inc. Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President Calvary Fund/Calvary Hospital Vincent J. Spinelli Executive Vice President Calvary Fund, Inc. Roy Clary, Senior Director of Development Calvary Fund, Inc.
      