
        TABORI-Suzanne S., 74. Of Manhattan, nee Sarah Dajch in Paris, France, died yesterday of cancer, surrounded by her family at her daughter's home in Los Angeles. Mrs. Tabori was an educator in the New York City Board of Education Auxiliary Services for High Schools, where she taught and developed programs for Frenchspeaking students that made it possible to acquire a high school diploma or equivalent in either English or their native French. Mrs. Tabori's efforts encouraged her students, many of whom were Haitian immigrants, to go on to higher education and become doctors, lawyers and teachers, while others pursued careers in health care, business and politics. A large number of her students became leading members of their communities and were then able to assist others in need thanks to the many opportunities that she helped make possible. As a young Jewish girl living in France during WW II Mrs. Tabori escaped the horrors of the Holocaust by hiding in small towns and villages while carrying false papers that identified her as non-Jewish. She immigrated with her family to the United States in 1957 and became an American citizen. Her wartime and immigration experiences helped her define a vision of America as a haven for all those who have suffered from oppression. She strongly believed that as an American, she should do all that she could to assist her students from Haiti who came here in search of safety from a repressive regime. Therefore, Mrs. Tabori went to great lengths to help as many Haitian immigrants as she could to acquire proper documentation, and even financial support, that would have otherwise been unattainable for those seeking admission to colleges and universities. She worked in schools in Brooklyn, the Lower East Side, and the Upper West Side of Manhattan, where she was well known and admired. Services for Mrs. Tabori are being held today at Hillside Memorial Park in Los Angeles. She is survived by her daughter, Rachel Tabori Myerson of Los Angeles, her son Michel Tabori of Santa Monica, her daughter Sylvie Tabori also of Los Angeles and her grandchildren Zoe Myerson and Zachary Tabori.
      