
        DeALESSANDRO-Joseph P., 71. On February 2, 2002 in Westfield, NJ. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Dorothy. Cherished son of the late Peter Charles and Lucy Rose. Beloved brother of Frank and Barbara. Revered and loved uncle of Joseph, Joan & Howard. Dedicated companion of Jeanette. Dr. DeAlessandro began his career in the insurance industry specializing in automobile and fire insurance. He honed his skills in many companies including American Insurance Company, 1952-60, Century Insurance Company, 196062, St. Paul Insurance Company, 1962-67. Became president of National Union Fire Insurance Company in 1967, also Director, Senior Vice President of American International underwriters, 1970; Executive Vice President, Director American Home Insurance Co. 1973; President, Director of American International Global Assistance Corp; Chairman of the Board, American International Group Political Risk, Inc., President and Director, American International Group Entertainment; President and Director, American International Group Assistance Incorporated; Director, United Guarantee Company; Senior Vice President, American International Underwriters. Most of the innovations he was involved in were developed in the 20 years he spent at the American International Group, Inc. In that time, he and his team at the AIG subsidiary, National Union Fire Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh, PA., where he became president, helped nurture directors and officers liability coverage from a fledgling product to indispensable insurance protection for corporations; created Employee Retirement Income Security Act fiduciary liability coverage; developed kidnap and ransom insurance for bankers; and developed private political risk insurance in the United States. After he retired from AIG in the mid 1980's, Mr. DeAlessandro helped Sanford Weill build Commercial Credit into the Travelers Group through a series of takeovers. After retiring again, he took on his present job in the early 1990's as a partner in American European Group, which specializes in taking over and turning around insurance companies, including Kentucky National Insurance Co. and Rutgers Casualty Insurance Co. Mr. DeAlessandro was president and CEO of both companies. Received the Professional Liability Underwriting Society's 1992 PLUS 1 award. Appointed to the President's Counsel of Brandeis University in 1990. Received Brandeis Distinguished Community Services Award in 1988. Elected Knight Commander, Order of Saint John and Knight Commander Grand Cross of Honor and Merit, named Man of the Year by the UJA Federation in 1987 and UJA Jericho, NY in 1986. Received an Honorary Doctorate in Fine Arts from the Culinary Institute of America in 1999. A man of enormous knowledge, talent and distinction. He will be missed greatly by his family, many friends and colleagues. Services at Dooley Colonial Home, 556 Westfield Ave., Westfield, NJ., Tuesday, February 5, 2002, 7-9 PM, Wednesday, February 6, 2002, 2-4 PM and 7-9 PM. Holy Mass at St. Helen RC Church, Thursday, February 7, 2002, 10 AM. Interment at Fairview Cemetery, Westfield, NJ. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the American Diabetes Assn.
      