
        WEINRIB-Norma. On February 9, 2002. Beloved wife of Jerry (Jay), devoted mother of Paulette Mae Cole, Madeline Beth Weinrib and the late Steven Lloyd Weinrib. Cherished grandmother of Lena Pearl and the late Kyle and Jeremy Cole. Mother-in-law of Evan Cole. Loving sister of Gloria and Dan Pilot. Dear aunt of Kenny Pilot. Services Tuesday, 10:30 AM, at Beth El Synagogue of New Rochelle, North Avenue and Northfield Road, New Rochelle, NY.
        WEINRIB-Norma. Our dear friend and the wife of our closest friend and associate Jerry Weinrib. Our deepest condolences to Paulette, Madeline and Lena and to the Pilot family. Paul, Susan, Loren and Adam Chapman
        WEINRIB-Norma. Our condolences to Jerry Weinrib and his family and friends on the loss of a great woman and valued associate. The Management and Staff of ABC Carpet & Home Warehouse Outlet
        WEINRIB-Norma. A woman of great taste and valor. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Jay, Madeline, Paulette and Gloria, who are left with wonderful memories. Karen and Marty Berger and Family
        WEINRIB-Norma. Oh Norm, it will never be the same. You were so talented, so beautiful, so funny, so irreplaceable. Our love to Jay, Paulette, Maddy and your precious Lena. Barbara & Arthur Levy
        WEINRIB-Norma. Dear Norma, so many years, so many memories. We are deeply saddened by the loss of a dear friend. Our condolences to Jay, Madeline, Paulette and the entire family. Mitzi and Fred Feldman
        WEINRIB-Norma. Jay, Paulette, Maddy and Lena, our love and prayers are with you. She was our dearest friend, and we mourn with you. Blossom and Bernard
        WEINRIB-Norma. Our heartfelt condolences to all of her family. Her love and laughter will always be with us. She will be missed. Sandie, Shelly, Leslie, and Dina.
        WEINRIB-Norma. Deepest condolences to Jerry Weinrib and the family and friends of Norma Weinrib on this great loss. Suyapa Greenberg
        WEINRIB-Norma. A sad goodbye to a friend of a lifetime. All our love and sympathy to the family. The Stein and The Saks families
        WEINRIB-Norma. We loved you and miss you already. Condolences to Jay and the family. Irene and Murray
        WEINRIB-Norma. Dear Friend. You left us too soon. Condolences to Jay and the family. Gloria and Sherman
        WEINRIB-Norma. We loved you and we will miss you. Ginger and Arthur
      