
        DALLA VILLA-Monsignor Anthony J. Called to the Lord on February 10, 2002. Monsignor Dalla Villa was born in New York City on April 2, 1938, to Frank and Elizabeth (nee Nicolini) Dalla Villa. He studied at St. Agnes High School, Cathedral Preparation School and Cathedral College before entering St. Joseph's Seminary. He was ordained in 1964. He later received a Master's degree in pastoral counseling from Iona College. Monsignor Dalla Villa was assigned as a parochial vicar in 1980, became administrator in 1987 and was named rector in 1988. Before being assigned to the Cathedral, he was a parochial vicar at Our Lady Queen of Peace parish in Staten Island and spent his first ten years of pastoral services at St. Dominic's Church in the Bronx. His sister Barbara Srinivas will receive friends on Tuesday from 2-4 and 7-9 PM at F. Ruggiero & Sons, Inc., 726 Morris Park Ave, Bronx. Monsignor Dalla Villa will then lie in state at his parish, St. Agnes Church, 143 East 43rd St (between 3rd and Lexington Aves) on Wednesday from 11 AM-4 PM. A Mass of Commemoration will be celebrated at St. Agnes Church, Wednesday evening at 6:30 PM. The Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated on Thursday, 10 AM at St. Patrick's Cathedral. His interment will follow at Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Valhalla, NY. For further information, you may call the funeral home at 1-888-828-1800.
        DALLA VILLA-Monsignor Anthony J. Cardinal Egan joins the staff and faithful of the Cathedral of Saint Patrick in sorrow at the sudden death of Monsignor Dalla Villa, who was beloved for his priestly service of twenty years at the Cathedral. He was appointed to the Cathedral in 1980; became Administrator in 1987 and Rector in 1988. On his assignment to Saint Agnes Church in Manhattan in 2001, he was designated by the Holy See Protonotary Apostolic. Before interment on Thursday, a Mass of Christian Burial will be offered at the Cathedral of Saint Patrick, Fifth Avenue and 51st Street at 10 A.M.
        DALLA VILLA-Rev. Msgr. Anthony J. The Board of Trustees of St. Patrick's Cathedral record with sorrow the passing of Monsignor Anthony Dalla Villa, former Rector of St. Patrick's Cathedral. His deep love for, and devotion to St. Patrick's were evident in the many improvements he made in the Cathedral. His untiring service was a mark of his complete dedication to the parishioners and visitors to the Cathedral. To his family, we offer our deepest condolences. Edward Cardinal Egan, President Rev. Msgr. James K. Vaughey, Executive Director
      