
        MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. On February 9, 2002, age 98, in New York City. She was the wife of the late Maurice T. Moore, the mother of Michael Moore and the late M. Thompson Moore, Jr. and the sister of the late Henry R. Luce. Born in Teng Chou, Shandong, China of missionary parents. She attended Abbott Academy and Wellesley College, of which she was a trustee. Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed her chairman of the State University of New York. She was a trustee of China Institute in America, the Asia Foundation and the National Board of the Y.W.C.A. She was president of the United Board for Christian Education in Asia and chairman of the Institute of International Education. For sixty-three years she was a director of the Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. A memorial service will be held on a date to be announced. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Brick Presbyterian Church, 8 East 91 St., New York, NY will be welcomed.
        MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. The Trustees and staff of the Institute of International Education mourn the loss of our good friend Elisabeth Luce Moore. Mrs. Moore brought great dedication to her work with IIE, serving as a Trustee, Chairman of the Board and later as a Life Trustee. Mrs. Moore had an enduring commitment to bettering the world through international education, and especially to building bridges between the United States and China. Her interest in China and in women's leadership in the nonprofit sector stimulated us to create the Elisabeth Luce Moore Leadership Program for Chinese Women, generously supported by the Henry Luce Foundation. Mrs. Moore was an inspiration to the many women trained through this program and enthusiastically shared her time and encouragement with those she met personally. All of us at IIE, as well as the many participants whose lives she changed will dearly miss her and extend our condolences to her son and the entire family. Henry Kaufman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Victor J. Goldberg, Vice Chairman Diane J. Paton, Vice Chairman Thomas S. Johnson, Chairman, Executive Committee Allan E. Goodman, President and CEO
        MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. Members and staff of the National Board of the YWCA of the U.S.A., Board of Trustees, YWCA World Service Council, and World YWCA express their sorrow at the death of Elisabeth Luce Moore, our dear friend, volunteer extraordinaire, honorary board member, trustee, vice-chairman, and former chairman of the YWCA World Service Council. This profoundly gracious world leader, a woman of faith and courage, was truly ''The Woman of the 20th Century,'' an intrepid explorer of ideas whose advocacy and commitment to racial justice and the economic, political, and spiritual empowerment of women has changed lives and given shape to our world and its history. We extend our deepest sympathy and gratitude to her son Michael Moore and her extended family for sharing her with us. Leticia Paez, YWCA of the U.S.A Margaret Tyndall Chief Executive Officer Kathryn A. Dessonville, President Board of Trustees Joyce Henderson Mims, Chairman World Service Council Jane Lee Wolfe, President, World YWCA
        MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. The directors and staff of the Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. are saddened to learn of the death of their longtime colleague and founding director and convey their deepest sympathy to her son, Michael Moore and her nieces, nephews, great nieces and great nephews. During the sixty-three years of her directorship, the foundation approved grants of three hundred and fifty million dollars. She was an original. Henry Luce, III Chairman John Wesley Cook President
        MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. The Directors of the YWCA of the City of New York and its Flushing Branch are saddened to learn of the death of ''Beth'' Moore, a longtime friend of the organization and many of its board members. Honored with the YWCA's Elizabeth Cutter Morrow Award, and a supporter of YW activities, both locally and around the world, she was an outstanding leader of women and an inspiration to all who knew her. Constance A. Tate, President Patricia Geoghegan, Board Chair
        MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. The trustees and staff of the United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia are deeply saddened by the death of our current honorary chair, president of the trustees for twelve years, and trustee from 1938 to 1998. We express our sincere sympathy to her family and will remember her unparalleled leadership, her untiring support, and her effective advocacy for Christian higher education in Asia. James T. Laney, Chair Richard J. Wood, President
      