
        RAEBECK-William Jr., D.D.S., Age 78, of Naples, FL, died Friday, February 15, 2002. Formerly of Bronxville, NY, he has been a permanent resident of Naples for six years. He was a member of Reformed Church of Bronxville. Dr. Raebeck was a graduate of Brooklyn Friends School, Brooklyn, NY, in 1941, Colgate University in 1945 and Columbia University Dental School in 1947. He was named Associate Clinical Professor of Dentistry at Columbia in 1947 and was Editor of the dental school newspaper, Dental Columbian, in 1947. He married Doris Oetjen of New York, NY, on June 10, 1949. He served in the U.S. Army Dental Corp. from 1951-53, stationed in Germany. After service with the U.S. Army, he joined a dental practice in Bronxville, NY, and later bought the dental practice, which became known as William Raebeck, Jr. & Asociates. He was a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, Psi Omega Dental Fraternity, the William Jarvie Society for Dental Research and the American Dental Society. Dr. Raebeck was Past Chairman of the Bronxville Adult School, Bronxville, NY, and Past Governor and member of the Bronxville Field Club, Bronxville, NY, Siwanoy Country Club and was active in the Colgate University Alumni Association. He was an avid squash and tennis player, competing in the United States Senior Men's Squash Championships. He was also an avid amateur photographer. Dr. Raebeck was a pioneer and active in researching the effects of, and a remedy for, osteoporosis in women. He published several articles on this subject in dental publications, as well as The New York Times and other newspapers. He is survived by his wife, Doris Raebeck; two children, Elizabeth (Alan) Raebeck Hall of Nashville, TN, and Malcolm (Martha) Mallery, D.D.S. of Danville, VA; three grandchildren, Justin, Anna and Cooper Hall, and a sister, Arleen Wahn of Wellesley, MA. He was preceded in death by his son, William Raebeck III. A Memorial Service will be held in Bronxville at a later date. Contributions in his memory are suggested to the Reformed Church of Bronxville, P.O. Box 397, Bronxville, NY 10708 or to Adoption and Children's Services of Family Service of Westchester Co., One Summit Ave., White Plains, NY 10606. For information, call Fuller Funeral Home, Naples, FL, 941-592-1611.
      