
        LOTT-Reverend Robert V. Died February 27, 2002. The son of the late Margaret and Robert Lott. Survived by his aunt Emily LaFleur, and his cousins Joan Kliemisch, Barbara DiFiore, and Catherine Lewis. The Pastor of the Church of St. Francis deSales on East 96th St, and Administrator of the Church of St. Lucy on East 107th St, Chairman of the Board and President of the SFDS Development Corporation. A community advocate concerned about the elderly and low income persons in need of housing. The wake will be held at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, Madison Ave. at 81st St., Thursday, 2-5 and 7-9PM. His body will lay in state in the Church of St. Francis deSales on Friday begining at 10:30 A.M. A Eucharist will be celebrated on Friday at 7:30 P.M. The Funeral Liturgy will be prayed at 10 AM on Saturday, March 2, 2002.
        LOTT-Reverend Robert V. James D. Cameron, President, Henry J. Humphreys, Chairman, the Trustees, staff and residents of Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center mourn the loss of our great friend and supporter, Reverend Robert V. Lott, and we extend our deepest sympathies to his family and parishioners. Father Lott was a dedicated priest, and a major force in the creation of affordable housing in East Harlem. He partnered with the Center and St. Vincent's Hospital to create the de Sales Residence, a non profit facility on Fifth Avenue that provides assisted-living housing to elderly low-income individuals. Father Lott was a leader in his community, and the legacy of his commitment will always be with us.
        LOTT-Rev. Robert V. The Board, staff and 265 member organizations of Council of Senior Centers & Services of New York City mourn the loss of our beloved Founder, Past President and Honorary President the Rev. Robert V. Lott, Pastor of St. Francis deSales Church. He was our guiding light and a strong advocate for the seniors of our city. His leadership and foresight will be his legacy. We will continue to strive to follow his mission of improving the lives of New York City's seniors. Elinor Guggenheimer, CSCS Founding President Wanda Wooten, CSCS President Emilie Roy Corey, Immediate Past President Igal Jellinek, CSCS Executive Director
      