
        MILLER-Charles Myer. Born April 25, 1919 in Springfield, Massachusetts. Mr. Miller, a decorated Navy veteran in World War II and recent resident of Charlottesville, Virginia, died in Charlottesville on Friday, February 8, following heart surgery and a stroke. He was 82. Mr. Miller grew up in Springfield, Massachusetts. He attended Wesleyan University and received a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1947. His education at Wesleyan was interrupted by military service during World War II. He served in the United States Navy as executive officer (second in command) of the USS LCI 366. After graduating from Wesleyan, Mr. Miller received an MBA degree from Harvard Business School in 1949. He then began a long, successful career in the manufacturing industry, which eventually led him to southern California. He worked for Standard Products Company; United Carr Fastener Company; & the Monadnock Division of TRW, Inc. In 1979, Mr. Miller purchased Monadnock from TRW and created The Monadnock Company, where he served as president until his retirement in 1988. Mr. Miller was married for 35 years to Thalia Lucy Carter, formerly of Cleveland, Ohio, and mother of Meredith and Laurie. He was an avid golfer and served as president of Yorba Linda Country Club and Hacienda Golf Club in southern California. At Hacienda, he served as general chairman of the Scotty McGregor Guest Tournament for nine years. For many years, Mr. Miller enjoyed yearly gatherings with his Harvard classmates at The Greenbrier Resort in West Virginia. In 2000, he moved to Charlottesville, Virginia to be closer to his two daughters on the east coast. In Charlottesville, he pursued his interest in bridge and played several times a week. He was a member of the American Contract Bridge League and held 35 points. He also pursued his interest in architecture (he held an Associate of Arts degree) by serving as chairman of the Architectural Review Board of the Forest Lakes Community Association. Mr. Miller is survived by his two daughters, Meredith Miller of New York City, & Laurie Miller and her husband William Gregory Grymes of Barboursville, Virginia; his former wife Thalia C. Miller of La Quinta, California; and his two brothers, Norman and David L. Miller of New York City. A private memorial service will be held in New York City in April. The family suggests that memorial contributions be made to an educational institution.
      