
        CODDON-David R., M.D. Of Engelwood NJ. Director and Founder of The Headache Clinic at Mount Sinai Hospital, NY NY. Beloved husband of Nancy (nee Frank). Devoted father of Jonathan and Susan. Loving grandfather of four grandchildren. Services Tuesday 1PM at the Sanctuary of Abraham and Sarah, Paramus NJ. Memorial service Thursday, February 7, 3PM at ''The Riverside'', Amsterdam Avenue at 76 St. For info ''Wien & Wien'', 1-800-322-0533.
        CODDON-David R., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. Dr. Coddon, an Associate Clinical Professor of Neurology and long time Director of Mount Sinai's Headache Clinic was an outstanding clinical neurologist and a world renowned expert in the medical management of headaches. A tireless and devoted worker in every facet of The Mount Sinai Alumni, he played a leading role in the merger of Hospital and Medical School alumni into a unified organization. In 1984, The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Coddon in acknowledgement of his profound professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the Medical Center and The Alumni. His indomitable spirit and fortitude, and his wonderful sense of humor continue to inspire us. He will be remembered fondly and sorely missed by patients and colleagues. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Nancy, and the rest of family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., President William G. Stein, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secretary George Raptis, M.D., Treasurer
        CODDON-David, M.D. Dr. C. Warren Olanow and the Department of Neurology of the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine mourn the passing of our colleague, Dr. David Coddon. Dr. Coddon did his neurology residency at Mt. Sinai from 1954 to '57, serving as Chief Resident, and was actively involved in teaching for almost 50 years. He has been Co-Chairman of the Mt. Sinai Hospital Alumni Association since 1971, Co-Chairman of Mt. Sinai Hospital Neurology Alumni since 1975, Director of the Headache Clinic since 1971, and was President of the Alumni Association in 1976 and the 1984 recipient of the Jacobi Medallion for Achievement in Medicine. He was a colleague, teacher and friend, and he and his sense of humor will surely be missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his family.
        CODDON-David R. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of a beloved colleague and friend. Dr. Coddon had been an active member of our staff for almost 50 years. He graduated from NYU Medical School and began his residency in Neurology in 1954. He was renowned as a clinical neurologist with special expertise in the treatment of headaches. He was a passionate supporter of Mount Sinai and he was the recipient of the Jacobi Medallion Award in 1984. He will be remembered for dynamism and for his clinical skills. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Anthony Squire, M.D., President Vicki Lopachin, M.D., Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
        CODDON-David R. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, David R. Coddon, and send condolences to his family.
      