
        BEHRMAN - Darryl. Age 51, passed away suddenly February 12, 2002. He is survived by his heartbroken, adoring and devoted wife Janine, son Greg, daughter Amanda, her fiance Zac Zeitlin, mother Fay Behrman, brother & sister-in-law Grant and Shelley Behrman, mother-in-law Gloria Stern, brother-in-law and sisterin-law Colin and Felicia Stern, niece and nephews Kim and Doug Behrman and Craig and Gary Stern. A co-founder of Behrman Capital, Darryl graduated from the University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa and Stanford Business School. A remarkably warm and compassionate man, he led an extraordinary life full of vigor, adventure and love. He was an accomplished outdoorsman with a deep passion for nature and particularly for the Africa of his birth. Above all, he cherished his beloved family. His family and friends will carry his legacy with adoration and pride. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, February 17, 2002, at 11:00 A.M. at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, New York.
        BEHRMAN-Darryl. We mourn the untimely loss of our good and long-time friend, Darryl Behrman. We knew Darryl to be a gifted man of intellect, conviction and energy, and a natural and wellliked leader. He lived in the world as an adventurer in the numerous and diverse areas of his interests, always exploring the far reaches of family, business and sporting life. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife Janine, children Greg and Amanda, brother Grant and his family, his mother Fay Behrman, and all of his other relatives, as well as to his extended family at Behrman Capital. Reboul, MacMurray, Hewitt, Maynard & Kristol
        BEHRMAN - Darryl. Gershon Kekst, Michael Freitag, David Lilly and our colleagues at Kekst and Company mourn the untimely death of our friend and client, Darryl G. Behrman. He was that rare individual who found the right balance between his professional and personal lives and lived life to the fullest. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family, friends and colleagues.
        BEHRMAN-Darryl. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus
      