
        COHEN-Emil. Died February 12, 2000 at age 88. With apologies to those who were unaware of his death two years ago in Lake Worth, Florida, we honor his memory and the way he celebrated life bringing mirth and good will to countless friends and audiences. As an entertainer in a golden era of Catskill Mountain performers he developed a special blend of home-spun stories topped off with the punch line in Yiddish. It helped, but you didn't have to be Jewish to get it. As the laughter was at its crest he would follow up with an English translation, but such was his delivery that even the occasional gentile couple from the farm belt could swear they got it the first time around. Because he appeared before hundreds of thousands of people in a career that spanned half a century, he was billed as America's Foremost American Jewish Humorist. Born in Elizabeth, New Jersey in 1911 the son of Julius and Ida (Magidoff), he was raised in Wilmington, Delaware in a family that included his sister Rose (who survives) and his brothers Hym and Phil. After serving in the United States Air Force during World War II, he joined the staff at the Grossinger Pancoast Hotel in Florida where he honed his skills as a professional comedian. There, Paul Grossinger introduced him to Lillian Rothman. Elaine Grossinger Etess recalls that after what seemed (to Paul) an appropriate length of time, he asked Emil, ''And what are your intentions with Lillian?'' ''Honorable.'' They were married in 1950, and, as Emil was fond of saying, they soon produced two sons: ''One a doctor, the other a lawyer. The doctor is 6 and the lawyer is 3.'' This proved prescient. The older son, Jay, did become a doctor and the younger, David, a lawyer. His relationship with the Grossinger Hotel was felicitous. He and his family would stay at the resort, where he entertained at poolside. The guests were in Catskill heaven. Mornings with Lou Goldstein at Simon Sez, afternoons at the pool with Emil Cohen, evenings at the playhouse to see the likes of Milton Berle, Eddie Fisher, Zero Mostel, Joey Bishop, Alan King, Buddy Hackett. What could be better? The borscht was plentiful as Emil and the guests enjoyed a society of mutual admiration. He would criss-cross the country, with club dates from Seattle to Miami, from Portland to LA. But in summer, he would always come back to Grossingers' poolside, as if to recharge his batteries with love from his adoring family-not to mention the gefiltefish and nova and the brisket done just right. He lived to make people laugh. When he was not performing live, he made recordings, one of which (T'synagogues and T'centers) revealed where he spent a good deal of his time. He was, perhaps, best known for his hilarious translation of Lincoln's Gettysburg Address into Yiddish, and his accounts of his Southern Bubbie who could speak no English. With his sweet tenor voice (for which he would credit his father, a cantor), Emil would move audiences with nostalgic renditions of traditional Yiddish tunes. Over the course of his career he raised tens of millions of dollars for UJA and Israel Bonds. Emil worked until about a year before his death. Even at 87, he made the rounds. But instead of flying to Montreal for a club date, he'd enliven a group of senior citizens at a nearby center. Never crude or the least bit off-color, his humor was gentle. As he grew older, he spent a great deal of time with his grandchildren (Jay's children Samantha, Zachary, and Joelle; David's children Alexandra, Danielle, and Scott). He taught them kindness and generosity, not by preaching it but by example. They loved him for it. He spoke ill of no one and never uttered an unkind thought. Perhaps because he never harbored one. Messages may be sent to David Cohen, C/O Iridian Asset Mgt., 276 Post Road West, Westport, CT 06880.
      