
        WEINRIB-Norma. On February 9, 2002. Beloved wife of Jerry (Jay), devoted mother of Paulette Mae Cole, Madeline Beth Weinrib and the late Steven Lloyd Weinrib. Cherished grandmother of Lena Pearl and the late Kyle and Jeremy Cole. Mother-in-law of Evan Cole. Loving sister of Gloria and Dan Pilot. Dear aunt of Kenny Pilot. Services Tuesday, 10:30 AM, at Beth El Synagogue of New Rochelle, North Avenue and Northfield Road, New Rochelle, NY.
        WEINRIB-Norma. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the untimely passing of Norma Weinrib, beloved wife of our esteemed Director, Jerome. We hope that fond memories will help you through these difficult days. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Milton A. Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman Daniel Reingold, Executive VP
        WEINRIB-Norma. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, Norma Weinrib. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband, Jerome and her entire family. The funeral will be on Tuesday, February 12, 2002, at 11 AM, Beth El Synagogue, Northfield Road at North Avenue, New Rochelle, NY. James Speiser, President Monty Davis, Secretery
        WEINRIB-Norma. A woman of immeasurable wit, gaiety, beauty and originality, overflowing with life and laughter. Your friendship brought our entire family great happiness and we shall always treasure it. Our thoughts and prayers are with Jay, Madeline, Paulette, Gloria and granddaughter Lena. Carole and Al and Family
        WEINRIB-Norma. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Norma Weinrib. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Jerome Weinrib, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary
        WEINRIB-Norma. We deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend of more than 55 years. Our condolences and sympathies extend to her husband, Jay, and their entire family. Her smile, spirit and laughter will remain with us forever. We will always love and remember you. Bunny and Bert Podell
        WEINRIB-Norma. With great sadness, it's time to say goodbye to our dear longtime friend, Norma. She was unique, fun loving and lived life with a special flair. Her friendship will be missed so much by all of us. Sincerest sympathy to Jay, Madeline, Paulette and Lena. Eileen & Morris Karp and family
        WEINRIB-Norma. A woman of great taste and valor. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Jay, Madeline, Paulette and Gloria, who are left with wonderful memories. Karen and Marty Berger and Family
        WEINRIB-Norma. A wonderful and extraordinary woman who enriched the lives of those who loved her. Our deepest sympathies to Jay and family. Love, Diane and Herb Jaffin
        WEINRIB-Norma. Truly ''one of a kind.'' An extraordinary lady. We will miss her. Rena and Leonard Lauren
        WEINRIB-Norma. Dear Friend. You left us too soon. Condolences to Jay and the family. Gloria and Sherman
        WEINRIB-Norma. We loved you and we will miss you. Ginger and Arthur
      