
        FLESHER-Mark. February 16th, 2002. Our dear, beloved son, devoted brother and uncle, and loving friend, died unexpectedly in his sleep. He was 36 years old. His life enriched and helped many others. He loved his family and friends. He had a wonderful kindness and generosity of spirit, and always thought of others before himself. Mark's character and love gave his short life a fullness and depth that cannot be measured in years. He is survived by his mother, Margaret Flesher, his father, Fredric Flesher, his sisters, Jolene Flesher Wilson, and Julia Flesher Koch, his brother Greg Flesher, his nieces and nephews, Paxton, Whitney, and Andrew Flesher, Jewell and Louis Wilson, and David and Mary Julia Koch. He leaves behind his dearest friend, Bradley Comisar. Funeral service: Church of Saint Ignatius Loyola, 980 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10028, Wednesday February 20th, 2002, at 4 P.M. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Food Allergy Initiative, 625 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10022.
        FLESHER-Mark. To our dearest brother, you truly gifted with love for life and with the ability to show your love in great acts of kindness. You such a giving, selfless person, only caring for the happiness of others. In your short life and tragic unexpected death, you left very precious memories for all of us to cherish. We will miss your great sense of humor. We will find it difficult to recover from such a loss. We will remember you every day for the rest of our lives.
        FLESHER-Mark. Chairman Gerry Grinberg and the Board of Governing Trustees of American Ballet Theatre mourn the passing of Mark Flesher, a cherished friend who gave much time and energy to our organization. Our deepest sympathies are extended to Julia and David Koch and family.
        FLESHER-Mark. To our beloved uncle Mark, thank you for showing us how to truly have fun. You cared so much for us. We will miss you deeply and remember you always. In loving memory, Paxton, Whitney, Jewell, Andrew, Louis, David, and Mary Julia
        FLESHER-Mark. We are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of this caring and gracious man. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family, friends and all who share in this loss. Sharyn Mann and Todd Slotkin, FAI
        FLESHER-Mark. Reaching Up records with sadness the passing of Mark Flesher. We extend our sincere condolences to the Flesher and Koch families. Jeffrey A. Sachs, President
      