
        BERBERICH-Dennis E. of Pelham, NY, former President and CEO of Canada Dry Bottling Company and Coors Distributing of NY, died on February 21, 2002. Born in the Bronx on July 3, 1939. Mr. Berberich graduated from Fordham Prep and received his BA degree in Economics from Fordham University. His 37 year career in the beverage industry began with New York 7UP in 1963. In 1980, Dennis was named President of Canada Dry Bottling Company of New York. When Coors Brewing Company entered the New York market, they formed the Coors Distributing Company of New York, of which Dennis was Chief Executive Officer. Dennis was strongly committed to enhancing the quality of health care and to charitable and community service. His most exemplary volunteer leadership was his participation in the Calvary Hospital Fund. He served as a Board of Director of the Fund since 1985, and Chairman since 1991. Dennis received many tributes including the Calvary Hospital Man of the Year Award and the prestigious Calvary Medal. He is survived by his wife Jo-Ann; their son Dennis M.; their daughters Jennifer Murray, Jane and Elizabeth; three grandchildren: Mary, Peter and Bobby Murray. Visiting hours at Pelham Funeral Home, 64 Lincoln Ave., Pelham, NY on Saturday 7-9 pm, and Sunday 2-4 & 7-9 pm. Funeral Mass at Our Lady of Perpetual Help Church Pelham Manor on Monday at 10 am. Interment at Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Valhalla, NY. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, donations be made in his memory to the Calvary Hospital Fund, Inc., 1740 Eastchester Road, Bronx, NY 10461.
        BERBERICH-Dennis E. On behalf of the Board of Directors, Administration, and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc., we mourn the passing of our longtime Board member and dear friend. Dennis Berberich served on the hospital Board of Directors since 1985. He gave generously of his time, as First Vice-Chairman of the Board and member of the Executive, and Human Resources Committees of the hospital Board. His dedication and enthusiasm were an inspiration to all who had the privilege of knowing him. His wisdom, commitment and leadership contributed enormously to the growth and success of the hospital program of care. We will miss Dennis, both as a dedicated Board member and a true friend, and most of all as a member of the Calvary Family. We extend our condolences to his wife Jo-Ann, his children, and his grandchildren. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., MD Chairman of The Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President/ Executive Director Michael J. Brescia, MD Executive Medical Director James E. Cimino, MD, Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute Christopher P. Comfort, MD Medical Director Richard J. Kutilek, Chief Operating Officer
        BERBERICH-Dennis E. The Board of Directors of the Calvary Fund, Inc., mourn with sadness the loss of our Chairman of the Board, dear friend, and colleague, Dennis E. Berberich. His enthusiastic and dedicated efforts on behalf of the Fund and Calvary Hospital inspired us all. His overwhelming commitment to the mission of Calvary Hospital contributed to the success of two capital campaigns. Dennis' determination and leadership helped Calvary to become the first hospital in New York State to open a ''hospital within a hospital,'' Calvary Hospital-The Brooklyn Campus at Lutheran Hospital in Brooklyn, New York. We shall forever be thankful for all that Dennis has helped achieve for Calvary Hospital. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Jo-Ann, his children and his grandchildren. Calvary Fund, Inc. Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President Calvary Fund/Calvary Hospital Vincent J. Spinelli Executive Vice President Calvary Fund, Inc. Roy Clary, Senior Director of Development Calvary Fund, Inc.
      