
        LAWRENCE-Richard W., Jr. Elizabethtown, NY. 93, died on Wednesday, February 6, at the Elizabethtown Community Hospital. He was born January 16, 1909, in the Bronx, son of Richard W. Lawrence and Ruth Earle. He was a graduate of the Riverdale School, Princeton University and Columbia Law School. In 1933, he married Marjorie Fitch. She predeceased him in 1945. He served in the Army Air Corps from 1942-45 and retired from the Air Force Reserve as Lt. Col. in 1969. He practiced law in New York City and was the former Chairman of Printers Ink Publishing and Bankers Commercial Corp. In 1947, he moved with his second wife, Elizabeth Hand Wadhams, to the Adirondacks. His interest in education led him to serve on the Elizabethtown-Lewis School Board, as Chairman of the College Council of SUNY Plattsburgh, as founder of the Council of Councils of NY State Universities and as past Chairman of North Country Community College. He served as President of the Crary Foundation in Elizabethtown from 1973 until his retirement in 2000. This organization, which he helped found, provides scholarships for Adirondack students to pursue higher education. He served as a Trustee of the Elizbethtown Library and was founder of the State's first multicounty library association, the Clinton-Essex-Franklin system. He was founder of the Essex County Historical Society and served for many years as a Trustee of the New York State Historical Association. His interest in the environment and conservation led to his appointment by Governor Rockefeller, in 1971, as first Chairman of the Adirondack Park Agency. He stepped down from the position in 1975, but continued for many years to serve on the Boards of the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks, the Adirondack Council, the New York Parks and Conservation Association and the Adirondack Nature Conservancy. He received an award from the NY-Vermont Interstate Commission on Lake Champlain, the Velma Moore Award from the NY State Library Assocation, a North Country citation from St. Lawrence University, a conservation award from the Garden Club of America, a distinguished service award from Potsdam College and the Founder's Award from the Adirondack Museum at Blue Mountain Lake. He was a member of the Princeton Club, the Union League Club, the Explorers Club and the AMR/Ausable Club. In addition to his wife Marjorie, he was predeceased by his sister Ruth L. Wittmer in 1965, his wife Elizabeth Hand Wadhams in 1987 and his daughter Ruth L. Wilson in 1991. He is survived by his daughters Alida L. Currey of Grand Junction, CO, and Elizabeth W. Lawrence of Elizabethtown, NY; granddaughters Lynn Chernushin and her children Cole and Marina of Arvada, CO, and Anne L. Wilson, her husband Peter Q. Lawson and their son Bates of Moab, UT. He was a man of humor and intellect who had a visionary and stubborn dedication to the creation of educational opportunities and the protection of the environment. A memorial service will be held on Friday, February 15, at 10:30 AM at the United Church of Christ in Elizabethtown. His family requests that memorial donations be made to the Essex County Historical Society, Elizabethtown; the Resident's Committee to Protect the Adirondacks, North Creek; or the Boquet River Association, Elizabethtown.
      