
        POSNER-Victor. Industrialist and financier, died on February 11, 2002 at the Miami Heart Institute. Born on September 18, 1918 in Baltimore, MD, Mr. Posner was one of nine children of Morris and Mary Posner, who both emigrated from Russia. He left school as a teenager to work in the grocery store owned by his parents and subsequently built his first fortune in Baltimore real estate, amassing $1 million by the age of 21. In 1948 he started buying and developing land and constructing houses. By 1952 he was the largest home builder in Maryland, building more than 1,100 houses a year. In 1954 he moved to Miami Beach and began investing in real estate and public companies. At various points in his career he served as Chairman, President and CEO of DWG Corp., NVF Company, Sharon Steel Corp., Pennsylvania Engineering Corp., Salem Corporation, APL Corp., Graniteville, Inc. and Southeastern Public Service Company. An active philanthropist in both Florida and Maryland, Mr. Posner was a generous supporter of causes related to children, the homeless, the arts and health care. He was a Platinum Angel of the Jackson Memorial Foundation, a founder of the Mount Sinai Medical Center, and a generous supporter of the Miami Heart Institute, the United Way, Miami Children's Hospital, The National Foundation for Advancement in the Arts, The Vizcayan Foundation, The St. Jude Children's Research Institute and the Knights of Malta. The Victor Posner Center for Communicative Disorders at the University of Miami Ear Institute and Posner Hall at Barry University are both named in his honor. He also holds an Honorary Doctor of Laws Degree from the University of Miami. Mr. Posner is survived by four children: Steven Posner, Gail Posner, Tracy Posner Ward and Lance T. Posner, seven grandchildren, five godchildren, one brother, Morton Posner, and one sister, Beatrice Cohen. Funeral services are private. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Miami Heart Institute or the Victor Posner Center for Communicative Disorders at the University of Miami Ear Institute.
      