
        GEBBIA-Carmen J. Of Toms River, NJ, passed away Tuesday, February 5, 2002 at home. Age 88. Born in New York City in 1913, Mr. Gebbia was a resident of Totowa, NJ from 1958 to 1987 when he retired from his career as a make-up artist to the stars. Mr. Gebbia moved to Toms River, NJ in 1987. Mr. Gebbia began his career in make-up in 1953 when he worked on TV in the early days of black and white. He brought his talent to such programs as; The Howdy Doody Show, To Tell The Truth, What's My Line, Edward R. Murrow's-Person To Person, The Arthur Godfrey Show, The 64 Thousand Dollar Question, Studio One and The Soupy Sales Show. Mr. Gebbia also worked on The Ed Sullivan Show from 1955 to 1971. Over his 35 year career he made up celebrities such as; Ella Fitzgerald, Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, Liz Taylor, Frank Sinatra, Fred Astaire, Gloria Swanson, Tony Bennett, Patty Duke, James Kennedy, Marlon Brando, Jack Lemmon, Sophia Loren and many, many more. Mr. Gebbia was head of the make-up department at FOX-TV for 25 years until his retirement in 1987. He taught make-up classes at the famous Neighborhood Playhouse acting school for 20 years. He also taught privately to students from as far away as Japan. He volunteered his talent to the New York Police Department, taught undercover detectives how to use disguises in their assignments. Mr. Gebbia's hobbies included photography, painting and sculpting. He is survived by his wife of 57 years Michelina (LeCerva) Gebbia, three children; Josephine Wismar of Beachwood, NJ, Salvatore Gebbia of Kennebunk, Maine and Paul Gebbia of Little Falls, NJ. He is also survived by four grandchildren; William Wismar of Beachwood, NJ, Christopher Wismar of Toms River, NJ, Paul Wismar of Beachwood, NJ, Heather Gebbia of Boston, MA and a great-granddaughter, Angela Wismar of Beachwood, NJ. A sister Josephine and her husband Anthony Percivalle of Queens, NY, also survive him. A memorial mass will be celebrated Saturday, February 23, 10:00 AM, at St. Joseph RC Church, Toms River, NJ. A memorial mass will be celebrated Saturday, February 23, 10:00 AM at St. Joseph RC Church, Toms River, NJ. In lieu of flowers, please make a donation to The Actors Fund of America, 729 Seventh Avenue, 10th Floor, New York, New York 10019.
      