
        LESNICK-Gerson, M.D. On February 7th, 2002 in his 89th year. Attending Surgeon at Mt. Sinai Hospital and Clinical Professor of Surgery at Mt. Sinai School of Medicine Emeritus. Beloved husband of Norma Vernon. Dear father of Dr. David and Deborah Woodsfellow and Richard Lesnick and his wife Amey. Cherished grandfather of Sky Lesnick. Dear brother of Ruth Sawelson and Abigail Liebowitz. Services today February 8th, 1 PM at Riverdale Temple.
        LESNICK-Gerson J., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague. Founder of the Medical Center's first Breast Clinic in 1949, the forerunner of the present Breast Service, he served as Chief of both entities. An unusually gifted, precise, objective surgeon, Dr. Lesnick became one of the great contributors to the treatment of breast cancer. In 1991, The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Lesnick in acknowledgement of his profound professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the Medical Center & the Alumni. Perhaps his greatest legacy is the hundreds of young surgeons he has trained, many of whom are pillars of Mount Sinai's current staff. He will be remembered fondly and sorely missed by patients and colleagues. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., President William G. Stein, M.D., Vice Pres. Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secretary George Raptis, M.D., Treasurer
        LESNICK-Gerson J., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of a beloved colleague, teacher, and friend. Dr. Lesnick graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1937 and then began his long association with Mount Sinai in the Department of Surgery. He was Chief of the Breast Surgery Service for many years and was revered by his colleagues and students. He was known as a consummate professional. In 1942, Dr. Lesnick took a leave of absence for military service when he joined the Third General Hospital, an overseas Mount Sinai Unit during World War II. He was a brilliant surgeon who will be remembered for his extraordinary skills and dedication. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Anthony Squire, M.D., President Vicki Lopachin, M.D., Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
        LESNICK - Dr. Gerson. The trustees, faculty and staff of The Mount Sinai Hospital and Mount Sinai School of Medicine deeply mourn the passing of Dr. Gerson Lesnick. Dr. Lesnick's major contributions to medicine included improving the management of breast cancer and founding Mount Sinai's first Breast Clinic in 1949. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Stephen M. Peck, Chairman of the Mount Sinai Boards of Trustees Nathan Kase Interim President and CEO The Mount Sinai Medical Center and Interim Dean Mount Sinai School of Medicine Barry Freedman, President The Mount Sinai Hospital
      