
        WALDBAUM-Ira. Passed away January 30, 2002 of Delray Beach, FL and Old Westbury, LI. Loving and devoted husband of Bernice to whom he was married for 53 years. Adored father of Randie (Aaron) Malinsky, Martin Waldbaum, Arthur (Nadine) Waldbaum and Nancy (Ronald) Nimkoff. Cherished grandfather of Carolyn, Benjamin, Adam, Erica, Alexis, David and Margaux. The founder of ''Waldbaums Supermarket''. Mr. Waldbaum was recognized throughout the food industry as an outstanding entrepreneur in the supermarket industry. Memorial contributions may be made to the Parkinson Disease Foundation, William Black Medical Research Building, Columbia Presbyterian Center, 650-710 West 68 St, NY, NY, 10032-2699. Services today 1:30PM February 1, 2002 at Gutterman's, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, Long Island.
        WALDBAUM-Ira. The Board of Trustees and the staff of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourn the loss of Ira Waldbaum, a good friend and dedicated humanitarian. Mr. Waldbaum was devoted to improving the health of Long Island residents. The son of Julia and Israel Waldbaum, for whom the health system's dialysis center in Great Neck is named, Mr. Waldbaum worked tirelessly with his sister, Shirley Witkin, and his daughter, Nancy, a trustee of the health system, to make the dream of this important facility a reality. He is survived by his wife Bernice, and four children and seven grandchildren: Randie, an associate trustee, and her husband Aaron Malinsky and their three children -Carolyn, Benjamin and David; Martin and his son Adam; Arthur, his wife Nadine and their three children -Erica, Alexis and Margaux; and Nancy and her husband Ronald Nimkoff. A quiet man who never sought the limelight, Mr. Waldbaum will be remembered for his dedication to our health system and the pride he took in its achievements. He passed his zeal for philanthropic work along to his nieces and nephews, many of whom are currently involved in health system activities. The Waldbaum family is asking that contributions be made to the Parkinson Disease Foundation. A gentle man who was a giant of industry and philanthropy, he will be missed by all who were fortunate enough to know him.
        WALDBAUM-Ira. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Ira Waldbaum. Through the generous support of Ira and his wife Bernice, the ADL Waldbaum Family Fund For Youth was established to ensure that future generations not suffer intolerance and bigotry. We extend our deepest condolences to Bernice, children Nancy, Randi, Arthur and Martin and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        WALDBAUM-Ira. The officers and employees of First Long Island Investors LLC and WP Stewart Asset Management (NA) Inc. mourn the loss of our esteemed friend and colleague, Ira Waldbaum. His business vision and entrepreneurial spirit will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Bernice and the entire Waldbaum family. Robert D. Rosenthal, Chairman Ralph F. Palleschi, President
        WALDBAUM-Ira. Our love from four generations of Levines to a man of vision, loyalty, abundant knowledge, boundless determination and love of family. You will be missed by all whom you have touched. Love to the entire Waldbaum family. Sammy has painted your way. Ronny and Robert Levine and Family
        WALDBAUM-Ira. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Ira, whose keen business acumen, philanthropy and strong family dedication served as a model to all who knew him. We will always be together in the ''winner's circle.'' Our heartfelt condolences to Bernice and the entire Waldbaum family. Jodi and Bob Rosenthal
        WALDBAUM-Ira. The Board of Governors and members of Delaire Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of their esteemed member Ira Waldbaum and extends its sincere sympathy to his beloved wife Bernice and his entire family. Mal Levenson, President
        WALDBAUM-Ira. The Board of Governors and the members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Ira and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his wife Bernice and his family. Board of Governors Lowell Kwiat, President
        WALDBAUM - Ira. Robert, Charles, William Entenmann and their families mourn the passing of our dear friend, Ira Waldbaum. We extend our sincere condolences to Bernice and the entire Waldbaum family.
        WALDBAUM-Ira. A lifelong friend whose warmth, kindness and memories of the good times we shared will be sorely missed. To Bernice and the family we offer our heartfelt friendship. Gloria and Paul Asnes
      