
        SCHEIDT-John C, Jr. Major General (USAF Retired). Age 67, passed away on Friday, February 1, 2002. General Scheidt was born in 1934, in Brooklyn, N.Y., where he graduated from Brooklyn Technical High School in 1952. He received a Bachelor's Degree from New York University in 1958 and a Master of Arts Degree in Business Administration from Auburn University in 1970. General Scheidt was commissioned as a second lieutenant through the Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps program and entered primary pilot training in July 1958. During his 32 years of active duty, General Scheidt served in numerous important flying and staff assignments until he retired on August 1, 1990. General Scheidt, call sign ''Hunter,'' was a Command Pilot with more than 3,600 flying hours. His military awards and decorations include the Distinguished Service Medal, Defense Superior Service Medal, Legion of Merit, Distinguished Flying Cross with oak leaf cluster, Meritorious Service Medal with oak leaf cluster, Air Medal with 13 oak leaf clusters, Air Force Commendation Medal, Combat Readiness Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal with five service stars, Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross with Palm, and Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal. Known fondly to family and friends as ''Jack'', General Scheidt's immediate family survivors include his loving wife of 43 years, Vivian Scheidt of Green Valley, AZ; son John Scheidt and his wife Vera of Tucson, AZ; daughter Susan Scheidt of San Diego, CA; son TSgt. Stephen Scheidt of Kunsan, Korea; daughter Jackie Ankley and her husband Jeff of Virginia Beach, VA; son Michael Scheidt and his wife Megan of Sterling, VA; and four granddaughters, Jackie, Susanna, Sarah and Joanna Scheidt of Tucson, AZ. In addition to immediate family, Jack is survived by three sisters-in-law, Dorothy Schneider of Maspeth, NY, Clare Connors of Spring, TX, and Jackie Jorgenson and her husband Chris of Las Vegas, NV. Jack is also survived by his dearest friend and most cherished fellow ''Warrior'' in the U.S. Air Force; Colonel Steve Kelley of San Antonio, TX. A funeral mass will be said at Our Lady of the Valley Catholic Church in Green Valley, AZ at 1 P.M. on Thursday, February 7, 2002, followed immediately by burial. Flowers may be sent to Our Lady of the Valley Catholic Church in Green Valley, AZ, or a memorial donation may be made to the American Cancer Society in Jack's name.
      