
        MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. On February 9, 2002, age 98, in New York City. She was the wife of the late Maurice T. Moore, the mother of Michael Moore and the late M. Thompson Moore, Jr. and the sister of the late Henry R. Luce. Born in Teng Chou, Shandong, China of missionary parents. She attended Abbott Academy and Wellesley College, of which she was a trustee. Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed her chairman of the State University of New York. She was a trustee of China Institute in America, the Asia Foundation and the National Board of the Y.W.C.A. She was president of the United Board for Christian Education in Asia and chairman of the Institute of International Education. For sixty-three years she was a director of the Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. A memorial service will be held on a date to be announced. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Brick Presbyterian Church, 8 East 91 St., New York, NY will be welcomed.
        MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. The Trustees and staff of China Institute are grieved to learn of the passing of longtime member of the China Institute family. A Trustee since 1944, ''Beth'' Moore's heart always remained partly in China, the land of her birth. She maintained that connection to China and the Chinese people through her extraordinary contributions to the work of China Institute. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her son, Michael Moore, and to her extended family, while we recall the warmth, good humor and enthusiasm she shared with us for so many years. H. Christopher Luce, Chairman Nancy Jervis, Vice President
        MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. The directors and staff of the Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. are saddened to learn of the death of their longtime colleague and founding director and convey their deepest sympathy to her son, Michael Moore and her nieces, nephews, great nieces and great nephews. During the sixty-three years of her directorship, the foundation approved grants of three hundred and fifty million dollars. She was an original. Henry Luce, III Chairman John Wesley Cook President
        MOORE-Elisabeth Luce. The New York Women's Foundation is saddened by the loss of one of our founding members who was a wonderful mentor to many women. Miriam Buhl, Executive Director
      