
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The entire Yeshiva University & its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS) family express profound sorrow over the passing, in Jerusalem, of its revered senior vice president emeritus. Rabbi Miller was a truly inspiring leader, humanitarian, colleague and mentor to us for more than six decades. He was also a world-renowned Jewish leader and eloquent national and international spokesman for the Jewish people. His leadership skills were rooted in his keen intellect and in his profound grace and humility, which touted all who knew or dealt with him at any level. He championed a myriad of Jewish causes as chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, chairman of the American Jewish Conference on Soviet Jewry, secretary of the International Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture, a founder of the Jewish Community Relations Council, president of the Rabbinical Council of America and of the Rabbinical Alumni Association of RIETS, and he was a top officer of nearly every other major Jewish organization in New York and the nation. As president of of the Conference of Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, his tireless energies helped achieve a landmark compensation agreement for the criminal theft and plunder that was part of the barbarity of the Holocaust. The legacy that his labors and commitment to the Jewish people left for the survivors of the Holocaust is timeless and immeasurable. For more than 25 years, he provided insightful and compassionate guidance as beloved spiritual leader of the Kingsbridge Heights Jewish Center in the Bronx. As learned as he was wise, Dr. Miller was an alumnus of Yeshiva College, earned his master's degree from Columbia University, and was ordained at RIETS, where he taught practical rabbinics and influenced the careers and lives of countless students. In 1967, when he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree, then-University president Dr. Samuel Belkin called him ''the symbol of the ideal rabbi.'' He joined the University administration in 1968, was appointed vice president in 1970, senior vice president in 1979, and senior vice president emeritus in 1994. He was a member of the Board of Governors of YU's Wurzweiler School of Social Work and of the RIETS Board of Trustees. As he was fond of saying, ''I came as a freshman in 1934 and have never really left.'' We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Ruth; his children, Rabbi David (and Miriam) Miller, Rabbi Michael (and Phyllis) Miller, Deborah (and Norman) Kram, and Judith (and Jay) Kalish, his 19 grandchildren, eight great-grandchildren, his brother David and sister Dorothy who reside in Netanya, Israel, and all members of the bereaved family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. The loss of this remarkable man of wisdom, warmth, compassion and leadership leaves a void in the world. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University and RIETS Robert M. Beren, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Julius Berman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustess
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany (Claims Conference) mourns with deep sorrow the passing of our beloved president, Rabbi Dr. Israel Miller. A man of great vision, uncompromising integrity and kindness of heart, Rabbi Miller led the Claims Conference for 20 years. He worked tirelessly toward achieving a measure of justice for hundreds of thousands of Holocaust survivors around the world. Under Rabbi Miller's leadership, historic compensation and restitution agreements were reached with Germany and Austria acknowledging the suffering of the Jewish people during the darkest period of human history. His efforts eased the plight and changed the lives of survivors of the Holocaust and carried forth the lessons of the Shoah. He devoted his entire life to the Jewish people and Israel. As one of the great American Jewish communal leaders, his accomplishments are legendary. Rabbi Miller had a unique ability to communicate with all people, from leaders of governments to elderly in nursing homes. When Rabbi Miller spoke, his words elevated those who heard them. A great man, a noble man, his place in history and in our hearts is assured. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Abraham Biderman, Roman Kent, Sallai Meridor, Israel Singer, Jack J. Spitzer, Ady Steg, Joseph Wilf, Vice Presidents Moshe Sanbar, Treasurer Saul Kagan, Secretary Julius Berman, Counsel Andrew Baker, Noach Flug, Ben Helfgott, Benjamin Meed Members of the Executive Gideon Taylor Executive Vice President Board of Directors and Staff Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, Inc.
        MILLER-Israel. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Rabbi Israel Miller, a beloved leader of the Jewish community and a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Rabbi Miller has earned enormous respect throughout the world for his unwavering commitment to Israel, klal Yisrael, and to helping people in need. As a revered pulpit rabbi and university administrator, Rabbi Miller was a prominent & eloquent spokesman for American and world Jewry. He was a leader in the Soviet Jewry movement and president of both the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany and the Committee for Jewish Claims on Austria. As vice president of Yeshiva University, Rabbi Miller provided inspiring leadership and insightful vision for over twenty years. Rabbi Miller's significant contributions will be felt for generations to come. His son, Rabbi Michael Miller, is a dear friend of UJA-Federation and is president of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York, one of our beneficiary agencies. Rabbi Miller's extraordinary legacy lives on in the continuing efforts of his four children, who are all recognized for their dedication to Jewish causes. We mourn the loss of a great leader, and extend our deepest sympathies to Rabbi Miller's wife, Ruth; to his sons, David & Michael; to his daughters, Deborah Kram & Judith Kalish; to his grandchildren & great-grandchildren; & to the entire Miller family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. What a loss! My mentor, my colleague, and my comrade-in-arms for decades, he was a great Jewish Statesman and the very model of Jewish leadership. Possessed of sound judgment, large vision, and a winning personality, he put himself at the service of his fellow Jews during one of the stormiest periods of Jewish history. His wisdom, his humility, and his selflessness were the hallmarks of this remarkable person, whose conduct throughout his life lent dignity and prestige to the Rabbinate and to Yeshiva University. His loyalty was unimpeachable, and his capacity for the love of his fellow man was all but unlimited. I was privileged to receive his always mature counsel during his tenure as Senior Vice President of the University, and I shall miss him sorely. My deep personal sympathy goes out to his loving wife Ruth, to his distinguished and beloved children, and to all his family. May they be consoled among all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Norman Lamm President, Yeshiva University President, Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The Officers, Board and Staff of the Jewish Community Relations Council mourn the loss of a giant of the Jewish community. As advisor to Presidents and Prime Ministers, a towering leader of the pulpit rabbinate, preeminent figure of Modern Orthodoxy and a pioneer in the fight for freedom for Soviet Jewry, Rabbi Miller's counsel was sought and valued. The JCRC is fortunate that he devoted his vast intellect, skill and reputation to our founding. We will deeply miss his infectious warmth and menschlichkeit. May his wife Ruth, his children, our beloved EVP Michael Miller, David, Debby and Judy and their families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. The funeral will take place at the Gruss Center in Jerusalem on Friday at 10 AM. Shivah will be observed in Teaneck from Monday through Wednesday morning. Ezra G. Levin, President Martin Begun, Ken Bialkin, Judah Gribetz, Gedale Horowitz, Lester Pollack, Dick Ravitch, Laurence Tisch, Peggy Tishman, Past Presidents
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of our Board Member, Rabbi Israel Miller, President of the Conference on Material Claims Against Germany for the past twenty years. Rabbi Miller devoted much of his life to the well-being of needy Holocaust survivors. Thanks to his leadership, wisdom, courage and unwavering integrity, hundreds of thousands of survivors around the world were sustained and comforted. In his longstanding dedication to the work and mission of the Claims Conference, Rabbi Miller always let the values of Torah and Judaism be his guide. Our condolences go to his wife Ruth and the entire Miller family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Eugene J. Ribakoff, President Jonathan W. Kolker Chairman of the Board Michael Schneider Executive Vice President
        MILLER-Rabbi Dr. Israel. The Board of Directors and staff of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research mourn the passing of Rabbi Dr. Israel Miller, President of the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany. Under Rabbi Miller's strong leadership, marked by keen insight and deep commitment, the Claims Conference has helped to improve the lives of numerous Jewish survivors and others directly affected by the Holocaust. Through his vision, the Conference has been a staunch supporter of institutions that preserve Jewish history and promote preWar and Holocaust research. He will be sorely missed. May his memory be for a blessing. Bruce Slovin, Chairman Dr. Carl J. Rheins, Executive Director
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The officers, Board of Trustees and staff of the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture deeply mourn the death of Rabbi Israel Miller. Rabbi Miller joined the Foundation's Board soon after the Foundation's inception in 1965, and was deeply involved in all our programs for the reconstruction of Jewish life around the world after the Shoah. Rabbi Miller served the Memorial Foundation and the global Jewish community with distinction over many decades. We will miss his counsel and wisdom. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Ruth and their children and families. Professor Anita Shapira Acting President Dr. Jerry Hochbaum Executive Vice President
        MILLER-Rabbi Dr. Israel. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations deeply mourns the passing of our esteemed and beloved past Chairman, Rabbi Dr. Israel Miller. His leadership covered the spectrum of Jewish life and his contributions to the Jewish people and Israel were unique. We share this loss with his wife, Ruth, his children, especially our dear colleague, Michael, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Mortimer B. Zuckerman, Chairman Malcolm Hoenlein, Executive Vice Chairman
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. It is with great sorrow and respect that we record the passing of Rabbi Israel Miller, the President of the Claims Conference. It was our privilege to work with him for many years. Our deepest condolences to his family. We will miss him. On behalf of the American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust survivors, Benjamin Meed, President Sam Bloch, Sr. Vice President Roman Kent, Chairman of the Board
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The New York Board of Rabbis mourns the passing of its distinguished member, Rabbi Israel Miller, who was an eminent leader and spokesman for world Jewry. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to Rabbi Michael Miller and the entire family. Rabbi Joseph Potasnik, President Rabbi Doniel Kramer, Exec. Dir.
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. We mourn our esteemed and beloved past president. A statesman and worldrenowned and revered Rabbi and leader, he treated others with mentchlichkeit ahavat Yisrael, kindness and respect. Rabbinical Council of America Rabbi Hershel Billet, President Rabbi Steven Dworken, Exec VP
        MILLER-Israel, Rabbi. Kingsbridge Heights Jewish Center mourns the loss of its esteemed Rabbi Emeritus, Dr. Rabbi Israel Miller. William Himmelfarb, President Sidney Z. Bowman, Treasurer
      