
        BERGER-Sylvia Josephs. In her 100th year. Died on March 2, 2002. A woman of extraordinary intelligence and taste; character and grace. Fiercely independent in mind and action. Her midwestern roots were evident in her sense of fairness and ethics. Born and raised in Duluth, MN she graduated from Smith College in 1924 (was the only one to return and participate in her 75th reunion). Attended the Sorbonne, received a law degree from New York University in the late 1920's. She was a pro bono lawyer for 20 years at the Juvenile Court in the Bronx. A seasoned traveller before World War II. She could read Greek, Latin and French; studied Russian language and Russian literature at Hunter College until she was 96. Attended art classes at the Metropolitan Museum and went to the Philharmonic until late last fall. Married to Arthur M. Berger for over 53 years. He predeceased her, as did a brother Irving and son-in-law Daniel Cowin. Survived by daughter Joyce Cowin, three grandchildren Kenneth (Jasmin), Andrew (Allyson), Dana (Barclay Palmer), three great-grandchildren Reagan and Alexandra Cowin, Sylvie Palmer. As well as a sister Muriel Cowan and brother Arthur Josephs (Adrianne) from Duluth, MN. Interment private. A celebration of her life will be held at her daughter's, April 3rd, 4-8 PM. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Russian Department at Hunter College or the Jewish Studies Program at Smith College.
        BERGER-Sylvia. The Board of Trustees, the faculty, students, and staff of Teachers College, Columbia University are deeply saddened by the passing of Sylvia Berger, the beloved mother of Joyce Cowin, devoted alumnae and trustee of Teachers College. Ms. Berger, proud of her Midwestern roots, was a pioneer who paved the way for women in the field of law. She was a woman who lived life fully traveling in Ethiopia, Egypt, and aboard the Trans Siberian Railroad before it was fashionable for young women to do such things. Hers was a life characterized by a love of learning. She read Russian literature in Russian. She took classes well into her 90's. She supported educational institutions, including Teachers College and the Heritage School, a public school in East Harlem, largely anonymously. She gave of herself for causes she believed in including 20 years as a pro bono lawyer. Sylvia Berger was an extraordinary woman who led an extraordinary life. On behalf of the TC community, condolences to Joyce and her family. Arthur Levine, President of Teachers College, Columbia University
        BERGER-Sylvia Josephs. Manhattanville College in Purchase, New York extends warm condolences to the Berger family. We have deeply appreciated her friendship and support of our Art History department over the past 20 years. We will miss her love of learning, her generosity, & vision.
      