
        GIL-David, 79. A resident of North Pownal, VT., died unexpectedly early Monday morning, March 18, 2002 at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington, VT. Born May 29, 1922 in New York City, NY, he was the son of Louis and Rose Goldfarb. He grew up in the city and later served as a merchant seaman in World War II. Upon his return, he attended the School of Ceramic Design at Alfred University, receiving a Bachelor of Fine Arts Degree. Moving to Bennington, David founded Bennington Potters, Inc. in 1948. His 54 year career began with a one-man operation and grew to include multiple stores, a restaurant, a mail-order business, a contract art production facility, and a ceramic factory. He spent his last five years building his successor operation. His loves were art, design and production. His satisfaction was problem solving, his greatest pleasure was seeing his own designs out in the world, both in the marketplace and in people's hands being used everyday. David's legacy is the Bennington Pottery Brand and his memory is an icon to craft producers; he was a man who made a business from his art. David's arrival at his studio inside the Pottery everyday from 1948 until last Saturday, was his daily adventure in practicing his craft. David was also devoted to his family and friends. A man who called his children every Sunday. He leaves his wife, Sheela Harden, and his children & grandchildren: Martin Gil and his wife Eva Holden, and their sons, Solomon and Merlin of Colchester, VT; Jane Gil and her husband Tom DiCillo of New York, NY; Sally Gil and her husband Ken Johnston and their daughter Lilabeth of Brooklyn, NY; & Michael Gil of Los Angeles, CA. David's brother Saul Gilford of Oberlin, OH, and a nephew, Todd Gilford of San Francisco, CA. predeceased him. David is also survived by Saul's children: Mark Gilford of Loveland, CO; Beth Gilford and her daughters Ruth and Elain Alden of Ann Arbor, MI; Peter Gilford of Northampton, MA; and Hilary Gilford of New York, NY. Funeral services will be private. A memorial celebration at Bennington Potters is being planned for late May. Contributions may be made in David's memory to the Bennington Fire Department in care of the HansonWalbridge Funeral Home, PO 957, Bennington, VT. 05201. For directions or to send condolences, contact us at www.nsm.org/covey.
      