
        FEUERSTEIN - Ina Klamberg, peacefully and in the presence of her family on March 18, 2002, at age 61. Beloved wife and best friend of Andrew; devoted and adored mother of Melissa, Joshua and son-in-law Ben; cherished sister of Susan Cook. Also survived by many loving nieces and nephews. Ina was passionate, caring, and filled with a boundless love of life. She gave fully of herself to family, friends, and community, forever enriching the lives of those she touched. We will always bask in the glow of her warmth, wisdom, elegance, humor, and unconditional love. Through several bouts with cancer over the past nine years, Ina maintained a full and joyful life, inspiring all with her uncommon courage and optimism. The family is grateful to the doctors and staff of Mount Sinai Hospital for their expert and loving care. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on March 20 at 9:30 AM. Contributions in Ina's memory may be made to The Ina K. Feuerstein Memorial Fund, c/o The Ovarian Cancer Research Fund, One Penn Plaza, Suite 1610, New York, NY 10119.
        FEUERSTEIN-Ina. We, the Feuerstein Family will forever terribly miss our dear sister, and we grieve with Andrew, Melissa and Ben, Joshua and Jessica, and with Ina's sister, Susie, over our monumental loss. We remember Ina and Andrew sharing each other's passions throughout their wonderful and loving marriage-tranquil beach moments sitting on their log watching sunsets, waking at the break of dawn so as not to miss a possible Stickley at the flea market or garage sale, enjoying each other's silence while listening to that magnificent chorus or string quartet, and so many other special and beautiful memories. Ina was an accomplished chef and homemaker. She was a lady with style. Born with an instinct for aesthetics, she appreciated fine art and music and cultivated her natural gifts to a high degree. She sure had her priorities straight-husband and children, and then worthy causes including Ovarian Cancer Research and the Brooklyn Museum. We cannot say enough about her courage, valor and will-to-live to overcome her foe-she's an inspiration to all of us. We will always love her and cherish her memory. Ina's sisters and brothers, seventeen nieces and nephews, and nine great nieces and nephews
        FEUERSTEIN-Ina. Wife of our beloved and respected Senior VP, General Counsel and Board Member. Andy and Ina were blessed to be loving life mates for 38 years & made beautiful music together. Ina was truly a woman of valor. A classy, elegant, soft-spoken New Englander who all of us adored and admired. Ina gave her time, energies and talents to her family and to a variety of noble causes. We deeply mourn her loss and extend our heartfelt condolences to Andy, their wonderful children, Melissa and Ben and Joshua and Jessica, her sister Susie and the entire Feuerstein family. John, Wendy, Jeff and Robert Neu and all your friends and associates at Hugo Neu Corporation
        FEUERSTEIN-Ina. The Board of Directors and staff of The Ovarian Cancer Research Fund, Inc., (OCRF) deeply mourn the passing of our beloved friend and cherished board member, Ina Feuerstein. Ina's commitment and dedication to OCRF was unwavering and her courage and grace in the face of ovarian cancer will continue to inspire us all. We will miss her terribly, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband Andy and children Melissa and Josh. Sol Schreiber, Founder Jamie Boris, Executive Director Board of Directors, OCRF
        FEUERSTEIN-Ina. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Ina Feuerstein, beloved wife of Andrew Feuerstein. We extend our deepest condolences to Andrew and family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        FEUERSTEIN-Ina. The Brooklyn Museum of Art Community Committee is deeply saddened by the death of Ina Feuerstein, a longtime devoted member and dear friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Alyse Castaldi, President Community Committee
      