
        BERGER-Sylvia Josephs. In her 100th year. Died on March 2, 2002. A woman of extraordinary intelligence and taste; character and grace. Fiercely independent in mind and action. Her midwestern roots were evident in her sense of fairness and ethics. Born and raised in Duluth, MN she graduated from Smith College in 1924 (was the only one to return and participate in her 75th reunion). Attended the Sorbonne, received a law degree from New York University in the late 1920's. She was a pro bono lawyer for 20 years at the Juvenile Court in the Bronx. A seasoned traveller before World War II. She could read Greek, Latin and French; studied Russian language and Russian literature at Hunter College until she was 96. Attended art classes at the Metropolitan Museum and went to the Philharmonic until late last fall. Married to Arthur M. Berger for over 53 years. He predeceased her, as did a brother Irving and son-in-law Daniel Cowin. Survived by daughter Joyce Cowin, three grandchildren Kenneth (Jasmin), Andrew (Allyson), Dana (Barclay Palmer), three great-grandchildren Reagan and Alexandra Cowin, Sylvie Palmer. As well as a sister Muriel Cowan and brother Arthur Josephs (Adrianne) from Duluth, MN. Interment private. A celebration of her life will be held at her daughter's, April 3rd, 4-8 PM. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Russian Department at Hunter College or the Jewish Studies Program at Smith College.
        BERGER-Sylvia Josephs. The Board of Trustees and Professional Staff of the American Folk Art Museum record with sorrow the death of their friend Sylvia Josephs Berger, mother of Joyce Cowin, a dedicated member of the Museum's Board. A person of grace and quiet dignity, Sylvia Berger enjoyed a long lifetime distinguished by its adventurous pursuits, commitment to learning and often anonymous deeds of kindness. She joined her daughter, Joyce, and late son-in-law, Daniel Cowin, in rallying to the cause of the American Folk Art Museum, doing so with her customary generosity and enthusiasm to help the Museum realize its dream of a new institutional home. Living into her 100th year, Sylvia Berger embraced life to its fullest. To Joyce and her family we convey our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences. Ralph Esmerian, Chairman L. John Wilkerson, President Board of Trustees Gerard C. Wertkin, Director
        BERGER-Sylvia. The Board of Directors and members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Sylvia Berger, who had a long association with our club. Our condolences go to her family. Beth Z. Post, President Roger H. Tulcin, Secretary
      