
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The Officers, Executive Board and staff of the American Society for Yad Vashem records with profound sorrow the passing of Rabbi Israel Miller. He was the first among American Jewish leaders to encourage Holocaust survivors to give voice to the pain of their tortured past. As President of the Conference of Jewish Material Claims Against Germany for the past 20 years, he has exhibited extraordinary responsiveness to the physical and material needs of survivors worldwide. We extend our deep and heartfelt sympathies to his wife Ruth and his entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Eli Zborowski, Chairman
        MILLER-Israel, Rabbi. It is with great sorrow that we mourn the passing of Rabbi Israel Miller, renowned leader and spokesman for world Jewry. Rabbi Miller's friendship for EMUNAH benefited generations of EMUNAH's children as he helped us build a religious Israel. He was a visionary who will be missed by all who knew him. Our condolences to his wife, a longtime EMUNAH life member Ruth, his children, our friend and colleague Michael, Judy, Rabbi David and Deborah. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marcia Genuth, National President Melanie Oelbaum, Hon. Nat'l Pres. Shirley Singer, Exec Vice Pres.
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The Officers and Board of the America-Israel Friendship League mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Rabbi Israel Miller. His exemplary life will serve as an inspiration for generations to come. Our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife Ruth, to our friend Rabbi Michael Miller, and to the entire Miller family. Mortimer B. Zuckerman, President Kenneth J. Bialkin, Chairman of the Board Irwin Hochberg, Chairman of the Executive Committee Ilana Artman, Executive Vice-President
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. We mourn with Ruth, David and Miriam, Michael and Phyllis, Debbie and Norman, Judy and Jay and their dear families the passing of ''Is'' our beloved friend. We have lost a precious member of our extended family, who shared happy occasions with us over many decades and who was an inspiration always. He was a warm, compassionate, humble human being, devoted to family and friends and loved by us all. We shall cherish our treasured memories as we send heartfelt condolences and love to his dear family. Joan Jakubovitz and Family
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The American Zionist Movement expresses its deep sorrow on the passing of Rabbi Israel Miller, founding president of the American Zionist Federation, our predecessor organization. Rabbi Miller was a man of integrity, possessed of refined manners and firm resolve, whose lifetime of achievement was a testament to his Zionist beliefs. He was a lover of the State and People of Israel. Our sincere condolences to his wife Ruth, son Michael and the entire family. W. James Schiller, President Karen Rubinstein, Exec. Director
        MILLER-Israel, Rabbi. AMIT is deeply grieved by the passing of an illustrious pioneer, leader and champion of the world Jewish community, dear friend of AMIT, and beloved father of our colleague Rabbi Michael Miller. His astute wisdom, profound expertise, and leadership skills guided thousands along the path of Zionism, Torah values, community service and loving kindness. Hearfelt condolences to the entire family. Sondra Sokal, President Marvin Leff, Executive Director
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The Orthodox Union and all its constituent organizations mourn the passing of Rabbi Israel Miller, a longtime member of our Board of Governors. Rabbi Miller's service to so many organizations, including Yeshiva University and the Claims Conference, was a testimony to the vital role he played in Jewish leadership. He was a shepherd of our flock for more than five decades and will be sorely missed. Harvey Blitz, President Rabbi Tzvi Hersh Weinreb, Executive Vice President
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The Jerusalem Foundation, Inc. is deeply saddened by the passing of Rabbi Israel Miller, a longtime member of its Board of Directors, and devoted friend to Jerusalem. This distinguished man of quiet strength will be greatly missed for his warmth, wisdom and compassion. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Ruth, and their children and families. Teddy Kollek, Int'l Chairman Ruth Cheshin, Int'l President Sandra Rubin, Exec. Director, USA Kenneth Bialkin, Acting Chairman
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. The United States Holocaust Memorial Musuem mourns the death of Rabbi Israel Miller, tireless advocate on behalf of Holocaust survivors. Under his leadership, the Claims Conference has been a strong supporter of the Museum's continuing efforts to establish comprehensive archives of Holocaust history. We extend sincere condolences to his family. Fred S. Zeidman, Chairman Ruth B. Mandel, Vice Chair Sara J. Bloomfield, Director
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the passing of Rabbi Israel Miller, a great leader, advocate and shepherd of our People. His departure leaves a great void. Heartfelt condolences to his wife, children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. May the Almighty comfort you among all the mourners for Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President
        MILLER-Rabbi Israel. We and our colleagues mourn the loss of Rabbi Israel Miller-a true leader of the Jewish people, founding member of NCSJ, instrumental in building the State of Israel and rebuilding post-Communist European Jewry. NCSJ: Advocates on behalf of Jews in Russia, Ukraine, The Baltic States & Eurasia Harold Paul Luks, Chairman Robert J. Meth, President Mark B. Levin, Executive Director
      