
        WALINSKY-Louis J. Economist and playwright, died peacefully in Washington, DC, on December 24, 2001, at the age of 93. Walinsky was born in London, the son of the labor leader Ossip J. Walinsky and the sculptress and author Rosa Newman Walinsky. Coming to America in 1915, he attended Cornell University where he received honors in economics. After graduate study at the University of Berlin, he wrote the play ''Heil Hitler!'' His dramatization of Aldous Huxley's ''Brave New World'' was banned in London, but performed in Paris by the English Players. He taught economics in New York City high schools from 1930 until 1943, when he joined the War Production Board in Washington, remaining there with the Civilian Production Administration until 1947. He then led the efforts of the World ORT Union to rehabilitate and train Displaced Persons in the refugee camps of Europe. In 1950 he joined Robert R. Nathan Associates in Washington, DC, working mostly on the problems of developing nations. He served from 1953 to 1958 as Chief Economic Adviser to the Government of Burma (now Myanmar). After 1963 he worked as a consultant for the World Bank, undertaking missions to Korea, Afghanistan, El Salvador, Brazil, East Africa, Israel, Iran, India, Bolivia, Venezuela, Newfoundland, Papua New Guinea and Puerto Rico. He authored several books on economic development. He was an original member of the national board of Americans for Democratic Action, and the Executive Director of the International Commission of the World Jewish Congress in 1979-80. From 1991 to 1995 he was vice chairman of the American Friends of Democracy in Burma, which opposed the military dictatorship there. His wife Dorothy died in 1987. An earlier marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his daughters, Marian Harrison of Bethesda, MD, and Louisa Parker of Vancouver, BC, by his son, Adam of Scarsdale, NY, and sister, Emily Rubin of New York City, and by three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. A memorial service will take place at Joseph Gawler and Sons, 5130 Wisconsin Avenue NW, in Washington, D.C. on April 26 at 11 AM.
      