
        BERGER-Sylvia Josephs. In her 100th year. Died on March 2, 2002. A woman of extraordinary intelligence and taste; character and grace. Fiercely independent in mind and action. Her midwestern roots were evident in her sense of fairness and ethics. Born and raised in Duluth, MN she graduated from Smith College in 1924 (was the only one to return and participate in her 75th reunion). Attended the Sorbonne, received a law degree from New York University in the late 1920's. She was a pro bono lawyer for 20 years at the Juvenile Court in the Bronx. A seasoned traveller before World War II. She could read Greek, Latin and French; studied Russian language and Russian literature at Hunter College until she was 96. Attended art classes at the Metropolitan Museum and went to the Philharmonic until late last fall. Married to Arthur M. Berger for over 53 years. He predeceased her, as did a brother Irving and son-in-law Daniel Cowin. Survived by daughter Joyce Cowin, three grandchildren Kenneth (Jasmin), Andrew (Allyson), Dana (Barclay Palmer), three great-grandchildren Reagan and Alexandra Cowin, Sylvie Palmer. As well as a sister Muriel Cowan and brother Arthur Josephs (Adrianne) from Duluth, MN. Interment private. A celebration of her life will be held at her daughter's, April 3rd, 4-8 PM. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Russian Department at Hunter College or the Jewish Studies Program at Smith College.
        BERGER-Sylvia Josephs. The Child Development Center of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services notes with sadness the passing of Sylvia Berger, beloved mother of Joyce Cowin. A devoted JBFCS trustee and former chair of the CDC Divisional Committee, Joyce's commitment and generosity to families and children in need follows the example set by her mother. Sylvia Berger gave of her time and wisdom in many ways, including as an advocate working with the Court Program of Jewish Board of Guardians (a JBFCS predecessor agency). Our condolences to Joyce and her entire family. Renee J. Ward, Chair, CDC Divisional Committee Marian Davidson-Amodeo, Director, CDC
        BERGER-Sylvia. The Smith College community mourns the death of Sylvia Josephs Berger, a beloved alumna who inspired generations of women with her life long passion for learning. Fellow alumnae extend condolences to Joyce Cowin, who carries on her mother's legacy.
      