
        TOVELL-Harold M.M., MD, peacefully slept away in his Florida home last May. Born in Toronto, Canada, he received his medical degree at the University of Toronto. Later he completed a tour of duty in the Canadian Army Medical Corps. After moving to NYC in 1949 he spent five years in residency at Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Gynecologic Oncology. He remained on the teaching staff of the Department for seven years before being appointed chief of the Obs/ Gyn service at Columbia University's affiliated Woman's Hospital in 1963 where he was Director for over a decade. There he created the Divisions of Reproductive Medicine, and Oncology, and reorganized the residency program. Among his numerous accomplishments, he opened a clinic with his good friend and colleague, Dr. Alexander Young, which became a referral center for the NY area. Harold also served as a board member of Planned Parenthood of NYC and chaired the medical committee for many years. He was also a member of the NY Obstetrical Society and played tennis on a weekly basis with several of its members for many years. He thoroughly enjoyed golf in his later years. He retired as Director of Woman's Hospital in 1974 and closed his practice in 1987. He moved to Sanibel, FL with his wife, Elizabeth (Betty), where he quickly became strongly supportive of the Bailey-Matthews Shell Museum from its inception with the late Dr. Tucker Abbott, a malacologist. Dr. Tovell served multiple terms as President of theBoard of Trustees of the world class, non-profit museum where he ''imparted a professional, scientific momentum to the museum'', according to the director, Dr. Jose Leal. Harold was predeceased by his loving wife of two months shy of 50 years, in 1995, and by their first 2 sons, Harold & Craig, during their early manhood. He is survived by their 2 other sons, Christopher, of Arizona, and Daniel, of Atlanta. A memorial service is to be held at the Shell Museum this Spring. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to The BaileyMatthews Shell Museum, P.O. Box 1580, Sanibel, FL. 33957
      