
        STURKIE-Dr. Paul D. Died Friday, March 8, at the St. Peters Medical Center, New Brunswick. Dr. Sturkie was born in Proctor, Texas, and was ninety-two years of age. He resided in East Brunswick for fifty years and was formerly from Texas. He attended elementary and high schools in Texas, he received his B.S. and M.S. degrees at Texas A&M in 1933 and 1936 respectively and the Ph.D. at Cornell in 1939. He became Associate Professor at Auburn University, 1939-1944, Associate Professor at Rutgers University in 1944, Professor in 1950, and later Distinguished Professor of Physiology until 1977, when he retired as Emeritus Professor of Physiology. During his tenure at Rutgers he served as Chairman of the Department of Poultry Science, Department of Animal Science and as Chairman of the Department of Environmental Physiology, which he established in 1971. He organized a course in basic animal and human physiology, which he taught to undergraduates in animal sciences and biology. He organized and taught the first complete course in avian physiology, and published the first one volume book on avian physiology in 1954. The second, third and fourth editions were published in 1965, 1976 and 1986. In 1981 he edited a book on basic physiology, mainly on humans for beginners in physiology and health related fields and biological sciences, which has been translated into Russian and used as a Russian text in colleges. Dr. Sturkie was an active research worker and senior or junior author of over 170 technical papers and reports. He has won four research awards for distinguished research, including the Poultry Science Award in 1947; the Borden Award in 1956; the Rutgers Lineback Award for Distinguished Research in 1974; and the Golden Egg Award for service to the New Jersey poultry industry. Dr. Sturkie has been invited (guest) lecturer at national and international meetings and seminars in England, Scotland, Ireland, Germany, Netherlands, Japan, Australia, Russia, Kenya and South Africa. He belongs to a number of professional and honorary societies, including the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the Fellow of American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS). He is listed in American Men of Science and World's Who's Who in Science and others. He is survived by his wife Betty Failmezger Welch, two sons, Robin Failmezger of Ottumwa, Iowa, and Victor Failmezger of Alexandria, VA, a daughter, Stephanie Partilla of Huntington, LI, a brother, Lloyd Sturkie of Houston, five grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. Calling hours will be Tuesday, 2-4, 7-9 PM, at the Rezem Funeral Home, 457 Cranbury Road, East Brunswick. Cremation will be at the convenience of the family.
      