
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur Goodhart. On March 17, 2002, at age 81. Beloved husband of Patricia Dey Altschul. Loving father of Dr. Stephen, Charles, Arthur Jr., Emily, Serena, stepson Whitney Smith, and grandfather of William & James. Dear brother of Edith Graham and the late Margaret Lang. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Thursday, March 21st, 6-8 PM, with service Friday, 10:30 A.M. Contributions in his memory may be made to the New York Community Trust, 2 Park Ave., 24th Floor, New York, New York 10016.
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur. Barnard College mourns the loss of Arthur G. Altschul, Chair of the Barnard Board of Trustees from 1977 to 1983, benefactor, counselor and long time friend of the College. With his mother, aunt, and daughter all alumnae, he was deeply connected to Barnard. His generous support through The Overbrook Foundation, particularly in the sciences, is an enduring monument to his deeply-held belief in the importance of students acquiring a grounding in the sciences within the context of a liberal arts education. The College will miss his wise counsel and friendship, and we extend our profound sympathy to his wife Patricia, his daughter Emily, our alumna, and his entire family. Judith Shapiro, President Gayle F. Robinson, Chair, Board of Trustees
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur G. The Directors, officers and staff of General American Investors Company, Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague and mentor, Arthur G. Altschul, who served the Company for fifty years as a Director, including thirty-four years as Chairman of the Board, and as Chairman Emeritus. He provided steady leadership and guidance through many stock market cycles and was a constant source of support and encouragement. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Patricia, his children, Stephen (and his family), Charles, Arthur, Jr. (a member of our Board), Emily and Serena, and his stepson, Whitney Smith. Lawrence B. Buttenwieser, Chairman, Board of Directors
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur G. The Distribution Committee and staff of The New York Community Trust mourn the death of our former member. For 31 years, Arthur served our institution and philanthropy with integrity, creativity and good sense. We are grateful for his wise counsel and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Anne P. Sidamon-Eristoff, Chairman Lorie A. Slutsky, President
        ALTSCHUL - Arthur G. The Trustees and Staff of the NewYork Historical Society mourn the passing of their great friend and supporter. A journalist, art lover, philanthropist & man of business, his many years of service to the community endeared him to those whose lives he touched. The Society wishes to extend its heartfelt sympathy to Patricia and her family in this time of loss.
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur G. Businessman, philanthropist, patron of the arts. The Trustees of Historic Hudson Valley express deepest sympathy to the entire Altschul family, and especially to his wife Patricia, our fellow Trustee.
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur G. We note with sadness the passing of Arthur G. Altschul. Our deepest sympathy to his daughter Emily H. Altschul and the rest of the family. Board & Staff Henry Street Settlement
      