
        PARIS-KRONBERG-Nina. On February 24, 2002. 1924-2002. The family of Nina Paris-Kronberg mourns the passing of a unique and remarkable woman. Mrs. Paris-Kronberg lived a life of great passion and adventure. She was born in Istanbul, Turkey and was raised in Athens, Greece. She was a professional ballerina and popular dancer in the 1940's in Europe. She and her husband Henri, a restaurateur, lived in Paris with their two sons until they moved to the United States in the mid 1950's. Widowed in her 40's, Mrs. ParisKronberg began an haute couture dress business in the 1960's, under the name of Nina Dimos, maintaining an atelier in Paris and a showroom on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Her clients included many high profile doyennes of the time. Her dresses have been sold recently at auction at Sotheby's. She married her long-time companion Louis Kronberg, the founder of Club ABC Tours. They both traveled extensively throughout the world. Upon the death of her husband she took the position of CEO of Club ABC Tours. Though Mrs. Paris-Kronberg valued tradition and manners greatly, she had an unconventional way of seeing the world and appreciated others who did as well. She moved with grace and lit her ever-present pipe with panache and elegance. Her philosophy of life had elements of the romantic, the practical and the poetic. Her sense of humor was unparalleled to the last days of her life. She battled her illness with great courage and fortitude. She was not one to give in to life's challenges. She met and conquered them. Eventually this final obstacle could not be overcome. She died bravely and with a conviction that life was to be lived to the fullest. Mrs. Paris-Kronberg is survived by her two sons Tom and Robert, their wives, and seven grandchildren. She also leaves one sister, Ellia McInnis, and her niece, Nina Ingold and family. All of them will miss her wisdom, her cooking and her zest for life the rest of their days. Donations in her memory may be made to the NYU Cancer Institute, C/O Dr. Howard Hochster, 160 East 32nd Street, New York, New York 10016.
      