
        FRANKEL-Marvin E. The Board of Trustees and the staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with great sorrow the passing of Judge Marvin E. Frankel, beloved husband of Dr. Alice Kross Frankel, Director Emerita and Chief Psychiatrist of our Child Development Center. A former U.S. District Court Judge, Southern District of New York and Professor of Law at Columbia University, Judge Frankel was one of the world's leading advocates for human rights and had a powerful influence in the fight for social justice. Dr. Frankel was and will continue to be a true partner in this work. Judge Frankel also cared deeply for the well being of children, his wife's life work, and shared on a pro bono basis the vast expertise of his firm, Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel to help CDC when needed. He was a wonderful husband, loving father and devoted grandfather. Our deepest condolences to Dr. Frankel, their four children and their spouses and six grandchildren. The world is a stronger and freer place thanks to the extraordinary work of Judge Marvin E. Frankel. Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board, JBFCS Jean L. Troubh, President, JBFCS Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., EVP and CEO, JBFCS Renee J. Ward, Chair, CDC Divisional Committee Marian Davidson-Amodeo, Director, CDC
        FRANKEL-Marvin E. For almost 20 years, our firm has been blessed to have Marvin Frankel as a partner-teaching us the core values which make partners of lawyers; setting an example of uncompromised excellence and generosity of spirit for colleagues of all levels of experience; and enriching us with a treasured blend of wisdom, elegance and humor. He was a revered advocate, law professor, human rights defender and legal scholar, as well as an extraordinary federal jurist. All who worked with him are better lawyers for it; all of us are enhanced as individuals by our time with Marvin. Our sense of loss is profound, but we take comfort that Marvin's influence over us will endure. Our heartfelt sympathies to Alice Kross Frankel, his devoted wife and companion, and to the children and grandchildren he leaves behind. Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP
        FRANKEL-Marvin E. Died at home on March 3, 2002. Cherished husband of Alice Kross Frankel for 37 years. Loving father of Eleanor Frankel Perlman and Mara Frankel Wallace, devoted stepfather of David Schorr and Ellen Schorr. Dear brother of Marjorie Frankel and uncle of Valia Patterson. Adored Grandpa to Jeffrey, Rachel, Ronit, Natanya, Anna Rose, and Lucy. Funeral 11:45 Tuesday at Riverside Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam. Visitors received at the Frankel home 4-8pm Tuesday to Thursday, 6:458:30pm Saturday, and 4-8pm Sunday to Monday. The family has established a special fund to perpetuate his efforts on behalf of international human rights; contributions may be sent to the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, 333 Seventh Avenue, NYC 10001.
        FRANKEL-Marvin E. Longtime Co-Chair of the American Jewish Congress' Commission on Law and Social Action, Marvin was a distinguished judge, lawyer and teacher. Although he left his mark on subjects as varied as criminal sentencing, international human rights and legal ethics, we knew him best as a staunch supporter of church-state separation and as an advocate for Soviet Jewry. He was a rare combination of articulate advocate, painstaking legal craftsman and innovative thinker. Our condolences to his wife Alice and to his children Ellen, Mara, Eleanor and David. Jack Rosen, President Neil B. Goldstein, Exec. Dir. Norman Redlich, Chair, Governing Council
      