
        LIVINGSTON-Elisabeth Sloan Pratt. The Packer Collegiate Institute Board of Trustees, Alumni Board, members of the Alumni Association, faculty and staff deeply mourn the loss of our beloved friend and esteemed alumna Elisabeth Sloan Pratt Livingston '25. Through her generosity and years of service and commitment to Packer, Mrs. Livingston has improved the lives of countless Packer students. An Honorary Director of the Alumni Board, she provided counsel and unflagging support to five Heads of School. Betty Livingston will long be remembered for her personal integrity, insistence upon high academic & moral standards, and long range vision for our school. We shall miss our devoted and caring friend.
        LIVINGSTON-Elisabeth S. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory's Board of Trustees, its Association, administration and staff extend deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Elisabeth S. Livingston. Mrs. Livingston and her husband John (deceased) were longtime supporters of research and education at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. Mrs. Livingston served as a member of the CSHL Association and Harbor Society, supported the Watson School Fund and Second Century Fund, and was a generous supporter of the Child Care Center built at the Lab in 1997. Mrs. Livingston will be deeply missed by all who knew her.
        LIVINGSTON - Elisabeth Sloan Pratt, age 96, died at her home on March 8, 2002. Born and raised in Brooklyn, she had resided in Oyster Bay Cove, NY since 1939. John Holyoke Livingston, her husband of 64 years, died in 1995. An avid golfer in earlier days and an active watercolorist until age 95 when failing eyesight forced her to quit, Mrs. Livingston was well known in Brooklyn and on the North Shore of Long Island for her philanthropy. A memorial gathering will be held on a date to be announced. Contributions to the Art League of Long Island or Packer Collegiate Institute of Brooklyn would be appreciated.
        LIVINGSTON - Elisabeth Sloan Pratt. The Board of Directors of the Art League of Long Island and its members are saddened by the death of our beloved student and devoted benefactor Betty Livingston. She is truly our ''art angel''.
      