
        SCHIEFFELIN-John W. ''Jack'' of Lafayette, California peacefully passed away at home on February 22, 2002. His beloved wife of 38 years, Marion, was at his side. He is survived by his wife, Marion, son John and his wife Cathy, daughter Cynthia and her husband Barry and grandchildren Anna and Reade. Born in 1932, in New York, NY, Jack spent his childhood in White House Station, NJ. He was passionate about wildlife and had a large snake collection which he eventually took to Harvard University ('54). A graduate of Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons ('59), Jack completed his internship at Roosevelt Hospital in New York City and residencies in Internal Medicine and Pediatrics at both Roosevelt Hospital and New York Hospital. In 1965, Jack and his wife Marion settled in California where he served the community as a pediatrician at Kaiser Foundation Hospital in Walnut Creek from 1965 to 1992. During these years and into retirement, Jack worked tirelessly as an advocate of children's safety. He served as Chairman of the Accident Prevention Committee, Chapter 1 District IX, Director of the Drowning Prevention Network, Director of the National Prevention Foundation and was a member of the National Accident Prevention Committee of the American Academy of Pediatrics, and a member of the Board of Directors of the Danny Foundation. In addition to Jack's numerous medical affiliations, he also served on the Board of Directors of Charles Scribner's Sons. Upon retirement from Kaiser, Jack devoted his time to native plant gardening and world travel with his wife. He will be remembered for vivid stories of ancestors, his rousing rendition of ''On Top of Old Smokey'', and his love of butterflies and Christmas. But, most of all, he will be remembered as a devoted husband and father and as a kind and generous friend. Family and friends are invited to attend a memorial service at St. Anselm's Church, 682 Michael Lane, Lafayette, CA on March 6, 2002 at 5PM. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that memorial contributions be made in his name to Kaiser Foundation Hospice Program, 1425 South Main Street, Walnut Creek, CA. 94596.
      