
        IMBERMAN-Jacob, on March 11, 2002. Devoted husband of Arlyn, adored father of Joseph and Diane, and cherished grandfather of Samuel, David, Daniel and Elizabeth. Funeral services will take place at Temple Israel, 112 E. 75 St., Manhattan, on March 13, at 12:30 PM. He is survived by his wife, Arlyn, two children, Joseph Imberman of Maplewood, NJ and Diane Albert of Chappaqua, NY, a sister, Ruth Taxel of Brooklyn, a brother, Milton Imberman of Manhattan, and four grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made either to: The Center for the Study of the Presidency, 1020 19 St, NW-Suite 250, Washington, D.C., 20036 or The Jacob Imberman Fund, U.J.A./Federation of NY, 130 E. 59 St., NY, NY 10022
        IMBERMAN-Jacob. The Center for the Study of the Presidency observes with great sadness the passing of its distinguished Trustee Emeritus, Jacob Imberman. A prominent figure in the legal profession in New York, he was meticulous in his attention to all Center matters within his purview giving invaluable counsel in the crucial areas of personnel and budget. His legal expertise, scholarship and deep personal interest in the American presidency gave him a unique perspective; his substantial contribution to the history of the Center is a permanant legacy. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Center for the Study of the Presidency, 1020 19th St NW, Washington, DC 20036.
        IMBERMAN-Jacob. The partners, senior counsel, associates and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the passing of our retired partner and dear friend Jack. A beloved member of our Litigation Department, Jack's wisdom and warmth counseled our clients and guided our attorneys for over thirty years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Arlyn; son Joseph; daughter Diane Albert; grandchildren Samuel, David, Daniel and Elizabeth, and all his family and friends. Alan S. Jaffe Chairman Proskauer Rose LLP
        IMBERMAN-Jacob. Our members are deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Jacob Imberman, husband of our colleague and past-Vice President, Arlyn Imberman. Our deepest sympathy goes out to Arlyn and the entire Imberman family. The National Society for Graphology
      