
        CORNING-Ursula. On March 20, 2002, in her 99th year, died peacefully in her sleep. Interment private. Memorial services at Church of the Heavenly Rest, 5th Ave. at 90th St., Monday, April 8, 11 AM.
        CORNING-Ursula. The World Wildlife Fund family celebrates the life of this remarkable woman, whose warmth, generosity, and graciousness inspired us over a generation of conservation endeavors. First female member of the British Alpinists Society, she climbed with her father all the important peaks in Europe. She travelled widely, but was most happy in Italy, where she spent several months each summer at her beloved Civitella Ranieri hostessing her friends, their children, and grandchildren. She loved animals & particularly cats, domestic as well as wild, and took pleasure in helping conserve tigers and leopards in the wild. Her love of that which is beautiful, unique, and fragile, and her adventurous pleasure in the rugged outdoors, underlay her lifelong commitment to conservation. Although deeply educated in art and languages, she was modest & reserved in manner and was happy to provide anonymous support for many years to some of the leading conservationists of the day including Fairfield Osborn, author in 1947 of ''Our Plundered Planet'' and founder of The Conservation Foundation, which later merged with World Wildlife Fund. Miss Corning's unstinting dedication to WWF helped provide a more secure future for many special places and the wildlife that depend on them. She made a major contribution to important conservation efforts in many parts of the world. We extend our sympathy to her family and her countless devoted friends around the globe as we mourn her passing and remember with great admiration and affection the difference she made. William K. Reilly, Chairman of the Board World Wildlife Fund
        CORNING-Ursula. The Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and New York-Presbyterian Hospital were fortunate in many ways to know Ursula Corning. First, she gave of herself through her skills as a physical therapist in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, working for nearly 20 years in the Neurological Institute at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. After her retirement, this modest yet extraordinarily loving and generous woman became a major benefactor of the research and education programs of the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University. She contributed to three endowed chairs, including one named for her father, H.K. Corning. Only rarely does one individual help an institution in so many ways. We will miss her inspiring presence. John Downey, M.D., Simon Baruch Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine, Columbia University. James S. Lieberman, M.D., H.K. Corning Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine Research and Chairman of Rehabilitation Medicine, Columbia University Herbert Pardes, M.D., President and CEO, New YorkPresbyterian Hospital Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D., Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Columbia University
      