
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur Goodhart. On March 17, 2002, at age 81. Beloved husband of Patricia Dey Altschul. Loving father of Dr. Stephen, Charles, Arthur Jr., Emily, Serena, stepson Whitney Smith, and grandfather of William & James. Dear brother of Edith Graham and the late Margaret Lang. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Thursday, March 21st, 6-8 PM, with service Friday, 10:30 A.M. Contributions in his memory may be made to the New York Community Trust, 2 Park Ave., 24th Floor, New York, New York 10016.
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur G. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our dear friend, Arthur G. Altschul. Arthur served on the Whitney Museum Board of Trustees from 1961-1980. During his tenure, he provided the Museum with much guidance and acumen through his leadership of both the Historic Art and Corporate Membership Development Committees. His generosity to and support of the Whitney made him a well respected and beloved member of our Museum Family, and he will be deeply missed. We extend our most hearfelt condolences to his wife Patricia and the entire Altschul family. Leonard A. Lauder, Chairman Joel S. Ehrenkranz, President Maxwell L. Anderson, Director
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur G. The Directors, officers and staff of General American Investors Company, Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague and mentor, Arthur G. Altschul, who served the Company for fifty years as a Director, including thirty-four years as Chairman of the Board, and as Chairman Emeritus. He provided steady leadership and guidance through many stock market cycles and was a constant source of support and encouragement. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Patricia, his children, Stephen (and his family), Charles, Arthur, Jr. (a member of our Board), Emily and Serena, and his stepson, Whitney Smith. Lawrence B. Buttenwieser, Chairman, Board of Directors
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur G. Sr. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Arthur G. Altschul Sr., a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Through his leadership role at the Overbrook Foundation, Mr. Altschul was a dedicated supporter of Jewish and other humanitarian causes. We extend our deepest sympathies to Arthur's wife, Patricia; to his sons, Arthur, Charles, and Stephen; to his daughters, Emily and Serena; and the entire Altschul family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur G. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of their distinguished colleague & friend, Arthur Altschul, who was a benefactor and Chairman's Council member for many years, and who was an ardent supporter of The American Wing as a donor & lender. He was a member of the Metropolitan Museum for more than 50 years. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his entire family. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director David E. McKinney, President
        ALTSCHUL-Arthur G. IFAR (the International Foundation for Art Research) mourns the passing of its former Chairman (1990-97) and Trustee (1988-2002), Arthur Altschul. His wise counsel and his support through The Overbrook Foundation have been deeply appreciated. Our sympathy to his wife Patricia, his children, and his nephew, IFAR Trustee, Robert C. Graham Jr. Jack A. Josephson, Chairman Sharon Flescher, Exec. Director
        ALTSCHUL - Arthur G. The trustees of The American Assembly mourn the passing of Arthur G. Altschul, esteemed friend and colleague. Arthur joined our Board in 1964 and served for 38 years. He enriched our lives and we will deeply miss his wise counsel and support. Our condolences to his wife, Patricia, and his family. Board of Trustees The American Assembly
      