
        FRANKEL-Hon. Marvin E. Yeshiva University and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law mourn the passing of the Hon. Marvin E. Frankel, who served as chairman of the Board of Directors of Cardozo from 1979 to 1981 and played a significant role in the strengthening of the law school. A former member of the Federal District Court in Manhattan, he was a strong advocate for human rights, including before the Supreme Court. A distinguished attorney and partner at Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel, a Manhattan law firm where he was litigation director for many years, he taught law at Columbia University from 1962-1965 and was the author of five books and more than 40 major articles. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Alice, children Eleanor Perlman, Mara Wallace, Ellen Schorr and David Schorr, sister Marjorie Frankel, and his six grandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Earle I. Mack, Chairman CSL Board of Directors David Rudenstine, CSL Dean
        FRANKEL-Marvin E. The Board of Directors and the staff of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights acknowledge with profound sadness the passing of Marvin E. Frankel, our Chairman Emeritus. In a career that spanned more than fifty years, Judge Frankel combined an extraordinary intellect, passion and wit to advocate for justice and equality at home and abroad. He believed in the capacity of people to change their societies for the better and he has planted that seed with generations of lawyers and advocates. His vision, devotion and friendship will be greatly missed. Mike Posner, Executive Director Tom Bernstein, President William D. Zabel, Chairman
        FRANKEL-Marvin E. The judges of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York express deep regret at the death of Judge Frankel, a former colleague, 1965-1976, and extend sympathy to his family. Michael B. Mukasey, Chief Judge
      