
        SLAWSON-Ada Schupper. We mourn the passing of Ada Slawson, mother, grandmother, mother-in-law and grandmother-in-law, who died in Rhinebeck, New York, on March 30, 2002, at the age of 91, after a short illness. Her first ninety years were lived in her beloved New York City. She married John Slawson, then Director of the Jewish Board of Guardians, in 1937 and the following year graduated from the Columbia School of Social Work and joined the staff of the Jewish Child Care Association (JCCA) as a Case Worker in the Foster Home Department. By the time her husband became Executive Vice-President of the American Jewish Committee (AJC) in 1943, a position he held until 1967, she had stopped working full-time to raise a family, but never ceased her commitment to community welfare. In the 1950's, she was a national chairwoman of the Council of Jewish Women and also served on the JCCA Board of Directors. In 1961, she rejoined the staff of that organization in a parttime capacity, administering its psychiatric clinic from 1961 until 1974, when her husband's health began to deteriorate. Until his death in 1989, she balanced caring for her spouse with volunteering at the Museum of Natural History and participating in projects at the Women's City Club. In the last full decade of her life, she studied in seminars at the Lotos Club and helped out wherever she saw a need, whether in feeding boarder babies at New York Hospital or tutoring a blind social work student. We will miss her deeply but are sustained by the memory of a grand lady whose energetic commitment to social service was accompanied by the charm of a personal style expressed through a daily fashion statement of elegance and panache, and oh, those hats! We will not see her like again. Interment is private. Donations to Hospice, Inc., Dutchess Division, 374 Violet Avenue, Poughkeepsie, NY 12601, would be appreciated. Ruth Slawson and Arvin Kaufman Rhinebeck, New York Judith Slawson King Glenwood Springs, Colorado Rachel Schwartz and Arturo Pardavlla Hoboken, New Jersey Jennifer Schwartz Garberville, California
      