
        SIMPSON-The Rev. James B., 75, Episcopal priest, author, journalist and former public relations account executive, died March 11 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, D.C. of complications following a stroke. Born in Arkansas, Fr. Simpson was educated at Northwestern University, the University of Edinburg, Scotland, and Nashota House Episcopal Seminary in Wisconsin. Before entering the priesthood, he worked in the media in New York, San Francisco and Chicago, and reported from London, Lagos, Moscow, Tokyo and Beijing. A resident of Washington, D.C. for the past ten years, Fr. Simpson was a member of the Cosmos Club and was associated with two Washington parishes, the Church of Ascension St. Agnes and All Souls. Before retirement, he was Curate at Christ's Church, Rye, NY, and Rector of Christ Church, Middletown, NJ. He was the Editor of ''The Anglican Digest,'' served as an interim priest in Tokyo, Japan, and was currently a correspondent for the British publications ''The Living Church'' and ''Church Times.'' He was the author of four ''Contemporary Quotations'' books, the first published in 1957 and the last in 1997. His biography, ''The Hundreth Archbishop of Canterbury,'' was listed among the 200 best books of 1962. In the 1990's, Fr. Simpson was listed in ''Who's Who in America.'' A protege of H.V. Kaltenborn, he scripted an early television panel show, ''Who Said That?'' With the late Fr. Edward M. Story, Fr. Simpson co-wrote the first book on the decennial international meeting of Episcopal bishops, ''The Long Shadows of Lambeth X.'' They followed that book ten years later with ''Discerning God's Will: Lambeth XI.'' They also wrote the first comprehensive history of religious orders in the Episcopal church. Currently, Fr. Simpson was working on a pioneering study, ''A Treasury of Anglican Art,'' which is to be published this year. Fr. Simpson's byline has appeared in Look, Reader's Digest, Esquire, Town & Country, Christian Science Monitor and The New York Times Magazine. He is survived by two sisters, Mrs. L.J. Witherspoon, Jackson, MS, and Mrs. Ralph D. Skinner, Homosassa, FL; two nieces, Mary Skinner Murry, Richmond, Virginia, and Jane Phillips, Jackson, MS; two nephews, Matthew Skinner, Ellicott City, MD and Joe Witherspoon, Orlando, FL. A funeral mass was held at the Church of the Ascension and Saint Agnes in the District on Friday. Gifts to support color photos for Fr. Simpson's book ''A Treasury of Anglican Art'' are tax deductible and should be made payable to The Rector's Discretionary Fund, and mailed to St. Paul's Church, 2430 K St., NW, Washington, DC 20037.
      