
        VAIL-Donald of Bedford, NY, died on March 27, 2002 at the age of 80. Mr. Vail was born in Yonkers, NY, to John I.B. Vail and Margaret Gray Vail of Hyannis, MA., and Blairstown, NJ. A 1938 graduate of the Holderness School & the Class of 1942 at Princeton University, he entered the Navy in World War II. As a Marine pilot, he served in the South Pacific, leaving the service as a Captain. He graduated from Harvard Law School in 1948 and practiced law at the firms of: Sullivan & Cromwell, McCanliss & Early, Alexander & Green, and Walter, Conston, Alexander & Green. Mr. Vail was a founding member of the Bedford Association; Chairman of the Building Committee of St. Francis A.M.E. Zion Church; and a Vestryman and Clerk of the Vestry of St. Matthew's Church. At Northern Westchester Hospital Center, he was a member of the Board of Trustees for 20 years, and a president of the Board from 1977-1982. He had also been a member of the Triangle Club at Princeton and of the Blue Hill Troupe in New York. Mr. Vail is survived by his wife of 50 years, Priscilla L. Vail, author & educator in learning disabilities & dyslexia. He leaves four children: Melissa Vail Selby of Mt. Kisco; Polly Vail Walsh of Chevy Chase, MD; Lucia Vail of New York City; Donald Angus Vail of Portland, OR; and six grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at St. Matthew's Church in Bedford on Monday, April 1st at 2 P.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Northern Westchester Hospital Center Foundation, Mount Kisco, NY.
        VAIL-Donald A. Northern Westchester Hospital Center notes with profound sadness the passing of former Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Donald A. Vail. A community leader in Bedford, he took particular interest in improving the healthcare of residents in Northern Westchester and guided this institution through a period of great expansion with a sure and steady hand. We send Priscilla and his children our deepest sympathy. Joel Seligman, NWHC President and CEO Frank Brosens, Chair, Board of Trustees Carll Tucker, Chair, NWHC Foundation
      