
        DeLAY-Dorothy. The Juilliard community deeply mourns the death of Dorothy DeLay, distinguished member of the violin faculty from 1948 to the time of her death. From a lifetime dedicated to nurturing generations of young violinists, her legacy lives on in the presence of great violinists as soloists, chamber musicians, orchestral members and teachers throughout the world. The excellence of The Juilliard School exists, in part, through her presence and dedication. Our condolences go to her beloved husband, Edward Newhouse, her children, Jeffrey and Alison, and her grandchildren. A memorial service at Juilliard is planned for the late spring. Bruce Kovner, Chairman Joseph W. Polisi, President Stephen Clapp, Dean
        DeLAY-Dorothy. We mourn the passing of a legendary figure in the international classical music world. To describe her as a master pedagogue only begins to portray an incredible and passionate force in the lives and careers of countless musicians. We extend our prayers and support to Ed Newhouse, her loving husband, who was her foundation, and to her family. ICM Artists, LTD Lee Lamont, Chairman David V. Foster, President/CEO
        DeLAY-Dorothy. The Perlman Music Program mourns the passing of its devoted Board member, Dorothy DeLay. She was a constant source of support. Our condolences to her family. Itzhak and Toby Perlman Co-Chairs Suki Sandler, Pres and Co-Founder Charles M. Rosenthal, Secy/Tres.
        DeLAY-Dorothy. We mourn the loss of our beloved teacher, role model and mentor. Miss DeLay was the guiding spirit in every aspect of our lives. Our sincerest condolences to her husband Edward Newhouse, her children and their families. Toby and Itzhak Perlman
        DELAY-Dorothy. No single person has had a more lasting and humane musical influence on what is achieved at the Aspen Music Festival and School than Dorothy DeLay. We are all honored to have been the beneficiaries of her warmth, strength and insight. We will miss her greatly.
        DeLAY-Dorothy. I mourn the loss of a great lady, good friend, and loving teacher. She will be always be remembered. I grieve with her husband, Ed, and her family. Lee Lamont,
      