
        GAVASCI-Alberto Paolo. Known as a Renaissance man and artistic visionary died peacefully at home after a long illness on April 28, 2002. He was 81. Born and raised in the Bronx, he graduated from Stuyesant High School and then went on to receive a BA from Pratt Institute and MFA Diploma Belle Arte from the University of Rome. Gavasci served courageously in the Pacific Theatre during WW II. After military discharge, he worked for Vogue magazine as an associate art director to Dr. M.F. Agha. In the 1940's, Gavasci opened his own advertising and design firm, APG Associates. Among the many corporations Gavasci represented as president of APG Associates were U.S. Gypsum, The American Cancer Society, 20th Century Fox, Goodall Fabrics, AT&T, Coca Cola, and Scalamandre Silks. Over the past 4 decades he was Creative Director to Whitney Communications Corp, and Cahners Publishing Inc., overseeing all aspects of the creative publication of Art in America and interior Design magazines. In 1993 Interior Design magazine honored Gavasci as a Special Honoree for his lifetime of achievement at their Hall of Fame ceremony. During his tenure at Cahners Publishing, Gavasci established lucrative corporate ties between the Italian furniture industry and its American counterparts, involving himself creatively with the annual Promosedia Regional-International Chair and Furniture Exposition. As a result of this successful endeavor, Mr. Gavasci was honored by the Italian government and inducted into the Order of the Passatore, only the 2nd American at that time to have received this honor. Additionally, Gavasci was adjunct Professor at Cooper Union, the School of Visual Arts, Pratt Institute, and Sarah Lawrence College from the 1960's to the 1980's, teaching advertising, design, and fine art. Gavasci was an innovative and compassionate man who gave generously of his time, energy, and talent in both his professional and personal life. As district chairman of the Yonkers Boy Scout council, he enthusiastically motivated young scouts to aspire to their highest potential and he was awarded the B.S. of A. Silver Beaver in recognition of his outstanding service. Gavasci's philanthrophic efforts include library endowments to both C.U.N.Y and the Fashion Institute of Technology. His accomplishments are immeasurable and his lifelong devotion to educational and charitable institutions truly define his success in life. He wil be greatly missed by Rachele, his devoted and loving wife of 57 years, his beloved children Alberto II and Piva, his adoring grandchildren Noelle, Thomas, and Christian, along with family, friends, and colleagues whose lives he touched with inspiration, encouragement, and love. Calling hours at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, Bronxville, between the hours of 2-4 and 7-9 PM Tuesday. Mass of Christian Burial St. Joseph's Church, Bronxville on Wednesday May 1 at 10:00 AM.
      