
        CANTLAY-Patricia King. Died peacefully on Thursday, April 11, 2002, eleven years after she was diagnosed with breast cancer. Patty was 47. She grew up in Manhattan, attended Brearley and The Purnell School and graduated from Briarcliff College with a B.A. degree. Beloved wife of Donald Davison Cantlay and devoted mother of their two children, Eliza Reid (16) and John Henry Davison (11). The family lives at the Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, NJ. Patty worked as an administrator in the admissions office and her husband works as a teacher. In addition to her husband and children, Patty is survived by a large, loving family-her parents, Henry L. King and Mary Sturges King, her stepmother, Margaret Gram King, all of Manhattan, and five brothers and sisters-Elizabeth King Robertson, Matthew H. King, Katherine King Baccile, Andrew L. King and Eleanor S. King, two stepbrothers, Michael A. and Joseph G. Sokolov, 12 nieces and nephews, five godchildren and numerous friends. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to The American Cancer Society, or The Purnell School, Pottersville, NJ 07979. Services to be held Monday, April 15, 2002 at The Church of the Heavenly Rest, 5th Avenue and 90th Street at 11:00 A.M.
        CANTLAY-Patricia King. The Bishop and staff of the Episcopal Diocese of New York extend their deepest and heartfelt sympathy to the Board President of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Mr. Henry L. King and his family, on the loss of his beloved daughter, Patricia King Cantlay. We also extend our sorrow and prayers for her husband, Donald Cantlay, and their children, Eliza and John, and her mother, Mary Sturges King. We will remember them in our private devotions and at the altar. The Right Reverend Mark S. Sisk, XV Episcopal Bishop of New York
        CANTLAY-Patricia King. The Clergy, Trustees, and staff of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine express deepest sympathy to its Board President, Henry L. King, and his family for the loss of his beloved and courageous daughter Patricia King Cantlay. We also extend our condolences to her mother Mary Sturges King, her husband Donald Cantlay, and their children Eliza and John. The Very Rev. Dr. James A. Kowalski, Dean of the Cathedral
      