
        PAYNE-Theodore M. (Ted). Died on April 21, 2002 at 52 years of age, a resident of Harding Township, N.J., and Oakey Point in Cundy's Harbor, Maine. An Investment Analyst with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, & a graduate of Mamaroneck High School, Wesleyan University and Harvard Business School. He was a member of the Harvard Club of New York. His father, Verdelle Lewis Payne predeceased him. He is survived by his partner, Donald Burton, his mother, Theodora Mitchell Payne, his brother, Verdelle and his sisters, Katherine Savage and Jessie Brown and a host of other family members. Ted was a man of principal, honor, integrity and dignity. He reveled in his enthusiasm for life. His optimism for the future never wavered. His character, courage & convictions will be remembered and live on in his loved ones as we continue to celebrate his life. He was a man of extraordinary intelligence and taste who lived his life with grace and style. He will be deeply missed by his partner, his family and his friends throughout the World. We are all honored to have been the beneficiaries of his warmth, strength, intellect & insight & most importantly common sense. Ted, you are physically gone from our lives but you will live on in our hearts forever. Donations in his honor, in lieu of flowers, may be sent to Wesleyan University, Attn: Linda Tipping, University Relations at 318 High St, Middletown, Connecticut 06459. On May 7, 2002, at 11:00 A.M. a Memorial Service, to celebrate that we knew him and that he touched our lives, will be held at Church of Christ the King in New Vernon, New Jersey, (1-973539-4955). A private burial in Maine and at sea is scheduled.
        PAYNE-Theodore M. (Ted). Our very special relationship crossed many avenues of our lives. Ted, your true interest in people, strong work ethic & sheer determination to overcome this illness inspired all of us. You loved books, dogs, opera, food and the sea. I always called you to discuss the things that were important to me in business and my personal life. You touched my life in so many ways, I will never forget you. Rick Wohlfarth
        PAYNE-Theodore M. (Ted). ''Blessed be, the ties that bind...'' Childhood friend, attending the same secondary schools, college and graduate school(s), best man at my wedding to Ilene, and Godfather to our daughter, Ilene Castille. Forever present in my life, always loved, part of all that is dear to me for infinity. Daulton Lewis
      