
        MARX-Leonard Maximilian. Born October 4, 1904 in New York City, died peacefully at home on April 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Virginia Wise Marx. Brother of the late Emily Marx House. Loving father of Sylvia & Leonard Marx Jr. of Greenwich, CT, the late Ellen Marx, Mary Lynn and Tony Bianco of Los Angeles, CA, and Jennifer and Bud Gruenberg of Scarsdale, NY. A 1925 graduate of Yale University, Mr. Marx was president of Marx Realty & Improvement Company and chairman of Merchants National Properties. He is also survived by six grandchildren: Richard Marx, Nancy Marx Better, Ned Solot, Claire Solot, Wendy Gruenberg and Jon Gruenberg, and by seven great - grandchildren: Carolyn, Kaitlin, David, Charlie, Sarah, Griffin and Ava Tess. Services will be held at the Marx family home in Scarsdale, New York, Tuesday, April 16, at 2:00 P.M.
        MARX-Leonard M. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with sadness the passing of Leonard Marx, a longtime friend and benefactor to our agency, whose late wife Virginia was a dedicated trustee for more than 40 years. Together with Virginia, an important advocate for children, they supported the work of our Child Development Center and advanced the profession by supporting the Center for the Study of Social Work Practice, our joint research program with Columbia University School of Social Work. Our condolences to his children, Leonard Marx Jr., and wife Sylvia, Jennifer Gruenberg and husband Bud, and Mary Lynn Bianco and husband Tony, and his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Jean L. Troubh President Joseph F. Kaplan Chairman of the Board Seymour R. Askin Jr. Honorary Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive Vice President and CEO
        MARX-Leonard. The Board of Directors and staff of White Plains Hospital Center (WPHC) deeply mourn the passing of Mr. Leonard Marx, a dedicated board member of WPHC for more than 40 years. As a member of both the Board of Directors and its Buildings and Grounds Committee, Mr. Marx was directly involved with the planning and designing of many of the Hospital's current facilities. The Hospital benefited from his vision, leadership and commitment. Leonard's, along with his late wife Virginia's, longstanding philanthropic support of WPHC has had a profound positive impact on the quality of healthcare services we provide in the Westchester community. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his children, grandchildren and to his entire family. H. Guy Leibler, Chairman of the Board Jon B. Schandler, President and Chief Executive Officer
        MARX-Leonard M. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Leonard M. Marx. We extend our deepest sympathy to his daughter and sonin-law, Jennifer & Leonard Gruenberg, grandchildren Wendy and Jon, and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard J. Bronstein, Secretary
        MARX-Leonard. On behalf of the entire Usdan family we mourn the loss of our dear friend, Leonard Marx. Our deepest sympathies and condolences to Leonard and Sylvia, Mary Lynn and Tony, Jennifer and Bud, and to all the grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
        MARX-Leonard Maximilian. The employees of Marx Realty & Improvement Company mourn the loss of our founder and president. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his children, Leonard Marx Jr, Mary Lynn Bianco and Jennifer Gruenberg and their families.
      