
        USDAN-Suzanne. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Suzanne Usdan, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Mrs. Usdan expressed an unwavering commitment to Jewish and other humanitarian causes through her exceptional generosity and dedicated efforts on behalf of the Lemberg Foundation. Her leadership role at the Usdan Center for the Creative and Performing Arts, a UJA-Federation beneficiary agency, provided an insightful vision that will continue to inspire Usdan students for years to come. Mrs. Usdan's legacy lives on in the extraordinary activities of her family members. Mrs. Usdan's son, John, who is a former member of our Board of Directors, is an exemplary leader of UJA-Federation and is extremely active on several of our commissions and within a number of our beneficiary agencies. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Usdan's husband, Nathaniel; to John, and his wife, Eva; to Mrs. Usdan's daughter, Esme, and her husband, James; to her son Adam, and his wife, Andrea; to her six grandchildren; and to the entire Usdan family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO Joan Ginsburg, Women's Campaign Chair
        USDAN-Suzanne. The Board of Directors of the Usdan Center for the Creative and Performing Arts sadly extends condolences to the famly of Suzanne Usdan and to the world of philanthropy in the arts and education. Sue Usdan was the consummate benefactor. Visionary in leadership, steadfast in values, gracious in guidance, and unassuming in spirit, she endeared herself to all the colleagues and friends who were privileged to know and work with her. Sue personified the civility and urbanity of New York where, for decades, her generosity made great things happen. She provided the model for all those who serve our city and nation. The Usdan Board will be the lesser for her absence, secure however, in the lessons she shared with her husband Duke and taught her adoring children John, Adam and Esme, and her beloved grandchildren, which now comfort the rest of us. Jerrold Ross, President Dale Lewis, Executive Director
        USDAN-Suzanne Lemberg. Died peacefully Sunday morning, April 7, 2002. Wife of Duke. Mother of Esme and James, John and Eva and Adam and Andrea. Grandmother of Sam, Andrew, Simon, Joshua, Hanna and Mathew. Her extraordinary mind, indefatigable spirit and unending concern for her family and friends will be missed. The funeral will be held Tuesday, April 9, at 11:30 a.m., at the Park Avenue Synagogue at 87th St and Madison Ave.
        USDAN-Suzanne. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with great sadness the passing of Suzanne Usdan, mother of our valued trustee, Adam Usdan. Adam continues his family's great work in meeting the needs of children and families. Suzanne was a trustee of Jewish Family Service (a predecessor agency). She made an extraordinary contribution over the years to the Jewish community and to the enrichment of the lives of children. Our condolences to the family. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive Vice President and CEO
        USDAN-Suzanne. The board of directors and the staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Suzanne Usdan, adored wife of Duke and mother of our friend, John Usdan, and his wife, esteemed board member, Eva Colin Usdan. Our thoughts and prayers are with her children, Esme and James, Adam and Andrea, and grandchildren, Sam, Andrew, Simon, Joshua, Hanna and Matthew. As her life was a blessing, so may her memory be as well. Matthew Bronfman, President Philip Milstein, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        USDAN-Suzanne. The Board of Directors, Staff and Members of Bronx House mourn the passing of Suzanne Usdan, beloved mother of our Treasurer, John Usdan. Suzanne Usdan was an extraordinary leader whose kindness and generosity touched the lives of so many. She will surely be missed by all. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Nathaniel, children John, Adam and Esme, and her beloved grandchildren. May they know of no further sorrow. George Carmel, President Sharon Gruenhut, Executive Director
        USDAN-Suzanne Lemberg. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband Nathaniel H. Usdan, our honorary chairman, her children Esme and James, John and Eva, Adam and Andrea, her brother-in-law Martin Usdan and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President
        USDAN-Suzanne. The Trustees and Staff of Thirteen/WNET New York mourn the loss of our dear friend and patron, Sue Usdan. Her kindness, intelligence, philanthropic leadership, and love of her family and friends will be remembered and profoundly missed. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband Duke, children John, Adam and Esme, and her beloved grandchildren. William F. Baker, President Thirteen/WNET New York
        USDAN-Suzanne. Lincoln Center Institute records with great sorrow the sudden death of its longtime and loyal member of the Board of Trustees, Suzanne Usdan. Her commitment to the arts for children was steadfast. We express our deepest feelings of sadness to her family. Sandra Priest Rose, Chairman Scott Noppe-Brandon, Executive Director
        USDAN-Suzanne. The Bennington College Board of Trustees and the entire College community expresses its deepest sympathy to the family of Suzanne Lemberg Usdan, valued alumna and former Bennington trustee. The College is proud to have the Usdan Gallery as a lasting memorial to this extraordinary and generous woman. Deborah Wadsworth, Chairman Elizabeth Coleman, President
        USDAN-Suzanne. The Members of the Wesleyan University community extend our deepest condolences to the family of Suzanne Usdan. We particularly hold in our thoughts her sons John and Adam, alumni of Wesleyan who have unfailingly displayed a generous spirit and affection for their alma mater. Douglas J. Bennet, President
        USDAN-Suzanne. The Board of Directors and Members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Suzanne Usdan, wife of Nathaniel H. Usdan, whose many years of friendship, kindness and enthusiastic spirit will always be remembered. Beth Z. Post, President Roger H. Tulcin, Secretary
        USDAN-Suzanne. The Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall are deeply saddened by the passing of Suzanne Usdan, devoted member of the Carnegie Hall family. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Duke, her children, John, Adam and Esme, and to the rest of her family. She will be deeply missed.
        USDAN-Suzanne. The times we spent with you were the best of times. We will miss you. Our condolences to Duke, your children and grandchildren. Gloria and Phil
      