
        HAYNES-Jean Reed. Died suddenly on Sunday, March 31, 2002 in New York City. Born on April 6, 1949, she was brought up in St. Louis. Was graduated with honors from Brown University where she also earned a Master's Degree and taught elementary school for several years before receiving her law degree from the University of Chicago Law School in 1981. In 1983, she joined the international law firm of Kirkland & Ellis, where she subsequently was made a partner. In 1990, she founded the firm's N.Y. office, trying numerous cases in Federal and State courts, while also serving as an international arbitrator and mediator. Between 1999 and 2001 she was the President of the American Judicature Society. In January 2001, she retired from her legal practice to devote her remarkable energies and intellect to various entrepreneurial interests as the President of J.R. Haynes and to her work as a member of the Board of Directors of the All Stars Project. She is survived by her beloved partner, Robert B. Levy, of New York City, and by her mother Arlene Dow, of St. Louis. Her untimely death is deeply mourned by Rick and Amy Levy and by Jared and Jennifer Levy. A Memorial Service will be held at 5 PM on Wednesday, April 3 at St. Peter's Church, 619 Lexington Ave at 53 St in Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the All Stars Project, Inc. at 500 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013.
        HAYNES-Jean Reed. The Board of Directors, staff and youth participants of the All Stars Project are deeply saddened by the loss of Jean Reed Haynes, Esq., a dear friend and dedicated Board member. Her commitment to giving inner city youth quality educational and developmental experiences inspired all of us. Jean's intelligence, generosity, warmth, enthusiasm and special style will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her partner, Robert Levy, with whom she shared her life and our cause. Gabrielle Kurlander, President Susan Massad, M.D., Chair of the Board of Directors
        HAYNES-Jean Reed. The American Judicature Society celebrates the tragically shortened life of this remarkable woman, our first female president, whose intelligence, wit, generosity, and drive have supported and inspired our mission to promote the effective administration of justice. A born leader, a wonderful friend, a delightful and vibrant lady, the AJS family will miss her always. Deirdre O'Meara Smith, President Justice Miriam Shearing, Chair E. Barrett Prettyman Jr, Vice-Chair Allan D. Sobel, Exec. Dir. American Judicature Society
      