
        MARX-Leonard Maximilian. Born October 4, 1904 in New York City, died peacefully at home on April 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Virginia Wise Marx. Brother of the late Emily Marx House. Loving father of Sylvia & Leonard Marx Jr. of Greenwich, CT, the late Ellen Marx, Mary Lynn and Tony Bianco of Los Angeles, CA, and Jennifer and Bud Gruenberg of Scarsdale, NY. A 1925 graduate of Yale University, Mr. Marx was president of Marx Realty & Improvement Company and chairman of Merchants National Properties. He is also survived by six grandchildren: Richard Marx, Nancy Marx Better, Ned Solot, Claire Solot, Wendy Gruenberg and Jon Gruenberg, and by seven great - grandchildren: Carolyn, Kaitlin, David, Charlie, Sarah, Griffin and Ava Tess. Services will be held at the Marx family home in Scarsdale, New York, Tuesday, April 16, at 2:00 P.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the Virginia Marx Children's Center at Westchester Community College, Valhalla, NY or White Plains Hospital Medical Center, Post Rd., White Plains, NY.
        MARX-Leonard. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Leonard Marx, a cherished friend and a major supporter of our organization and several of our affiliated agencies. Along with his late wife, Virginia, Leonard left a legacy of philanthropy and a commitment to meeting human service needs. His support of ''A Different Start,'' a program established by Westchester Jewish Community Services, helped people of all backgrounds reach their potential. Our deepest sympathies go to the entire Marx family: his daughter, Jennifer, and her husband, Bud Gruenberg; his daughter, Mary Lynn, and her husband, Tony Bianco; his son, Leonard Jr., and his wife, Sylvia; and Leonard's six grandchildren and seven greatgrandchildren. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & CEO
        MARX-Leonard. The Trustees and entire Teachers College, Columbia University community mourn the passing of Leonard M. Marx. Beyond great success in the business world, Leonard Marx had a first class mind, a fabulous sense of humor and a commitment to helping those in need. He leaves a large family including children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren; many good friends and legions of people whose lives are better because of his good works. At Teachers College, he and his late wife, Virginia Weiss Marx leave us two alumni, two endowed professorships, a research center, a lecture series, and most importantly, their animating spirit to guide generations of graduates to come. Arthur Levine President of Teachers College
        MARX-Leonard M. The Benenson Capital Company mourns the loss of our distinguished friend, Leonard M. Marx. We will miss his intelligence, leadership and wit. We have sixty-four years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a man who was greatly dedicated to his family, business and philanthropy. Those of us who know how special he was share the sense of loss with his family, friends and associates. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Marx family. Charles B. Benenson Lawrence B. Benenson Richard A. Kessler James E. Stifel
        MARX-Leonard M. The Mental Health Association of Westchester County, Inc. (MHA) extends heartfelt condolences to the Marx children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren on the loss of Leonard M. Marx. Together with his late wife, Virginia Wise Marx, Leonard Marx received MHA's Humanitarian Award at its 1995 Benefit. They have been longtime supporters and friends of MHA and will be missed.
        MARX-Leonard M. To my esteemed teacher in real estate, bridge and other worldly matters, we offer condolences to the family. Leonard was a considerate man who was one of the few principals who assisted his brokers, salesmen, and office employees to share in real estate ownership. We miss him dearly. Richard D. and Susan Levin
        MARX-Leonard M. The Board of Directors of Surprise Lake Camp expresses its sorrow at the passing of Leonard Marx, our past President and Board Member for more than 50 years. Few people have meant more to our agency over such a long and distinguished period of time. We extend our deepest sympathy to his entire family.
        MARX-Leonard, Sr. With deepest sympathy for the family of our friend, benefactor and partner; and in memory of 60 years together. The Oestreicher Family
      