
        FERTIG-Felix C. Died unexpectedly on his 91st birthday, April 24th. Beloved and devoted husband of the late Hilda, cherished father of Ann and Mack, loving grandfather of Jessica, Sara, Eric and Amy, adored father-in-law of Robert and Lisa, caring brother-inlaw of Barbara and uncle of Gloria. He will be remembered for his great spirit and affection for life. In memory, contributions may be made to The Gladney Fund, 6300 John Ryan Drive, Ft. Worth, TX 76132. Funeral Service is Sunday, April 28th at 10:00 am -Riverside Memorial Chapel on Amsterdam and West 76th Street, New York.
        FERTIG-Felix. All of us at GVA Williams are saddened by his loss and will remember him always. He was a member of the Williams family for more than 55 years. A unique person, Felix was always a success. This was true to a high degree in his practice of real estate brokerage, but similarly, it was true in virtually everything Felix elected to do. He always succeeded in a refined and insightful way, whether it was real estate, golf, tennis, poker or bridge on the train from Scarsdale to New York. He was a mentor to the next generation. It was not possible to equal Felix and frustrating if one tried to do so. We extend our most sincere condolences to his family: his daughter Ann and her husband and our partner, Bob Freedman, and their daughter Jessica; his son Mack and his wife, Lisa, and their children, Sara, Eric and Amy. Years from now, Felix will be remembered and missed.
        FERTIG-Felix. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed honorary member and extend our heartfelt condolences to his daughter Ann, his son-in-law Robert and his family. Corey B. Rabin, President Joyce Baumgarten, Secretary
        FERTIG-Felix C. The family of Felix C. Fertig wish to extend their deep gratitude and affection to his dear and caring friend, Marcia Silverblatt. She enriched his life. The Fertig & Freedman Families.
        FERTIG-Felix C., To a dear friend, for over 50 years, I will miss you. My sincere condolences to the family on your great loss! Norman F. Levy
        FERTIG-Felix. To my dearest Felix, I love you, and I will miss you always. Marcia Silverblatt
      