
        WILLIAMS-James Rennick. The former president of the National Retail Merchants Association (NRMA), passed on September 20, 2001, at his home in Lockport, New York. He was born in Lockport and attended local schools. In the fall of 1942, he entered Princeton University and, while there, joined the Marine Corps under the V-12 program. After basic training, he spent one year in the occupation of Japan. He returned to Princeton after the War and graduated with a degree in history in 1947, as a member of the class of 1946. He then began his career in retailing at B. Altman & Company in New York City. Mr. Williams acquired the major ownership of Williams Brothers Company, a department store founded in 1868 in Lockport by members of the family, and he was president of the business until 1974. During this period, he served as president and member of the boards of several civic and business groups and as president of Rotary and the Chamber of Commerce. In 1971, he was elected president of the New York based National Retail Merchants Association, the leading international retail trade organization. He served as its president until 1990, when the organization merged with the American Retail Federation to become the National Retail Federation. During his impressive tenure at NRMA, Mr. Williams built the organization's membership both in the U.S. and abroad. He brought showmanship and flair to the NRMA annual conventions held in New York City and presided over the NRMA bi-annual retail conferences held in major cities around the world. He often testified before Congressional committees on behalf of the retail industry. For his service to the worldwide retail industry, he was presented with the NRMA's Silver Plaque. He also received the prestigious Gold Medal, awarded annually for outstanding contributions to the industry. Mr. Williams is survived by his wife Joan P. Williams; a sister, Margaret Dickinson; his sons, James and Robert Williams; four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren
      