
        JOLSON-Anya. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary are deeply saddened by the passing of a highly respected member of the Jewish community, the beloved wife of Leon Jolson, cherished mother of Barbara (and David) Blumenthal, grandmother of Adam, Gideon and Shira, and sister of Isa Kotkowski. A Holocaust survivor, she was a kind, gentle, ethical person and an active supporter of many activities at YU and RIETS over the years. Together with her husband, she was a YU Guardian and established at RIETS a scholarship fund in loving memory of their daughter Dorothy Jolson. She will be sorely missed. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Julius Berman, Chairman, RIETS Board of Trustees
        JOLSON-Anya. Bar-Ilan University and its American Friends mourn the passing of Anya Jolson, the beloved wife of our esteemed benefactor, Leon Jolson. We extend to Mr. Jolson, and the entire family, our sincerest condolences. The Jolsons are members of the University's Presidential Founders Society and dedicated a classroom at the University in memory of their daughter Dorothy. Mr. Jolson's creativity in suggesting and sponsoring new programs deepens the University's impact and reaches out to the greater community in Israel. May the family derive solace from inspiring memories. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancelor Professor Moshe Kaveh, President Brig. Gen. (Ret.) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President Bar-Ilan University
        JOLSON-Anya. We mourn the passing of our very dear friend Anya. She was a thoughtful, kind and loving friend with a smile and a hug for everyone. Our hearts go out to Leon, Barbara and Iso. Esther Born, Rita & Fred Distenfeld, Debbie & Richard Born
        JOLSON-Anya. The Jewish Center of Atlantic Beach records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Anya Jolson. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and know no further sorrow.
        JOLSON-Anya. Mira and Eduardo Erlich mourn the passing of our longtime friend, Anya. Sincere condolences to Leon and Barbara.
      