
        PENCER-Eileen. It is with deepest sorrow and regret that LESC staff announce the untimely death of our beloved President & CEO Eileen Pencer who passed away on March 21, 2002 after a valiant twoyear fight with cancer. Eileen was an extraordinary person in many ways and touched so many lives. She brought out people's strengths and her indomitable spirit was truly an inspiration. Eileen's career at LESC began as the Supervisor of the Vietnam Veterans Family Services Center in 1990. She developed this family treatment program into a valuable asset for LESC and the Veterans' Community. Eileen presented expert testimony before Congress on ''Social Services for Vietnam Veterans and Their Families: Current Programs and Future Directions.'' Promoted to Vice President, Chief Program Officer in 1992 she oversaw all programs and clinical services and established a network of referring agencies that has been the base for the successful maintenance of a high level of census and increased revenue. Appointed President & Chief Executive Officer in 1996 she implemented agency reorganization and successfully spearheaded agency fundraising, funding diversification and visibility campaigns to achieve recognition and establish LESC as a leader in the field. Eileen's leadership style was based on staff empowerment and establishing a flatter organization with accountability on all levels. While Eileen focused her energies on representing LESC in the field, conducting outreach and leading fundraising efforts, under her leadership LESC significantly diversified its services. In the six years she served as President, she gained for LESC invaluable public exposure, and City, State and national recognition. Eileen established Angel Street Thrift Shop in 1997 as a vocational training site to assist clients transition from welfare to work. Today, ASTS has evolved into a stable and successful business operation both as a retail concern and clinical resource, and provides clients opportunities for retail training and employment. Eileen joined the Association of Alcoholism & Substance Abuse Providers of NY State in 1995 and quickly became a vital force in the organization. She spearheaded and chaired Public Policy Solidarity-building Roundtables statewide setting the bar for outreach and statewide inclusion. Eileen's leadership in the field was acknowledged when she received the ''Light of Unity Award'' in appreciation for outstanding commitment and dedication to the alcoholism and substance abuse field and by her election in 2001 as President of ASAP. Eileen was appointed to the National Institute on Drug Abuse's Clinical Trials Network National Steering Committee in 2000 and served on the Committee as the New York Node CoCTP (community treatment program) representative. A close colleague of Eileen's wrote: ''Color and light, and warmth-that's what you are. Your sense of purpose, and your sense of fun touches everything and everyone fortunate enough to know you.'' Eileen was a source of inspiration, encouragement and innovative thinking, and enriched LESC. She accomplished so much in such a short time, she worked tirelessly for the substance abuse field and her legacy of utmost dedication to LESC and ASTS will remain an integral part of LESC's history and future. Eileen was born in Canada and became an American citizen. Her husband Joe Muskatel, her mother Pauline Pencer and sister Wendy Pencer survive her. In lieu of flowers, please donate to the Eileen Pencer Memorial Fund (make check payable to Friends of LESC) and send to LESC, 157 Chamber St, 8th Fl, New York, NY 10007. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, April 20th, 1:30 pm at NY Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64 St. (Central Park West), NY, 212-874-5210.
      