
        SHEDLIN-Allan. 87, of New York City, died on April 5, 2002. He was the beloved husband and best friend of Lilli Shedlin; devoted father of Victor and Susan Shedlin, Allan Shedlin Jr., Ann Kamin, Leslie and Daniel Weinberger and Carol and Lowell McKegney; loving grandfather of nine and great poppa to eight great-grandchildren. We deeply mourn his passing and know he will be truly missed by all who knew and loved him. The family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., NYC, Sunday, 7-9 PM. Memorial services will be held at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. at 65th St., at a time to be announced. Contributions in his memory may be made to either the American Cancer Society or Easter Seals.
        SHEDLIN-Allan. The staff and volunteers of the American Cancer Society are deeply saddened by the loss of our cherished longtime volunteer Allan Shedlin. Through a lifetime of dedication, which ended as President of our Board of Advisors, Allan has been an inspiration to us all through his warmth, charm, enthusiasm, generosity and love of life. Allan's American Cancer Society family will dearly miss him and will continue to celebrate that he touched our lives with his unique sense of style. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife Lilli and the entire Shedlin family. The American Cancer Society Eastern Division
        SHEDLIN - Allan. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member Allan Shedlin. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        SHEDLIN-Allan. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Allan Shedlin and extend to his bereaved wife Lilli and members of his family our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary
        SHEDLIN-Allan. It is with deep sorrow that we mourn the passing of long term partner and best friend of more than 65 years. His friendship and love expressed to the very end in almost daily communication will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Lilly and the entire family. Fred and Marji Strauss
        SHEDLIN-Allan. We will forever miss basking in the glow of your radiant sunshine. Love, Barbara and Buddy Freitag
        SHEDLIN-Allan. I shall always treasure the memories of happy times shared for so many years. Jimmy Heller
      