
        GOLDMAN-Judith. With deep sorrow we announce that Judy Goldman, 63 years old, passed away April 2, 2002. Her untimely death came after her brave battle with cancer. Daughter of the late Gertrude and Moses Hornstein. For 43 years loving and much loved wife of Eugene Goldman. Proud and loving mother of Pam & Danny Fried, Laurie and Jeffrey Goldberger and Michael Goldman. Adored grandmother of Perry, Kyle, Sydney, Jared, Jamie and Cody. Judy will be missed by all who were lucky enough to know her. A sweet, good and kind soul who loved life and her family. Her kindness and generosity of spirit shall live forever in our hearts. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Dysautonomia Foundation, 633 Third Ave, 12th Flr, NY, NY 10017. Funeral services will be held on April 5, 2002 at 12:30 PM at Old Westbury Hebrew Congregation, 21 Old Westbury Rd., Old Westbury, NY 516-333-7979
        GOLDMAN-Judith. The Board of Governers and the members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Judy, wife of our esteemed member Eugene Goldman, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governers Lowell Kwiat, President
        GOLDMAN-Judy. A beautiful lady, a wonderful and devoted wife, mother and grandmother. Our heartfelt sympathy to Gene, Lori, Pam, Michael, Jeff, Danny and family. Lisa and Marc Friedman Linda and Jules Lane
        GOLDMAN-Judith. Oh how we will miss our dear friend, Judy. Our hearts go out to her wonderful family. May they derive strength from her courage. Our heartfelt condolence and love to Gene, her children and grandchildren. Sydell and Ira
        GOLDMAN-Judith. The Women's Cross County Golf Association mourns the loss of their past president, Judith Goldman. We extend our deepest sympathies to her husband Gene and their family.
        GOLDMAN-Judith. Words cannot express the sadness in our hearts. We shall never forget you. Marilyn and Dick Dickstein
        GOLDMAN-Judith. A special friend, loved by all. We will miss you forever. Our love, Debbie and Brett Rosen
      