
        HAVERSTICK-Iola Stetson, 77. Of Litchfield, CT., and formerly of New York City, died Wednesday, April 3, 2002 at Rose Haven LTD in Litchfield, following a lengthy illness. Mrs. Haverstick was born August 30, 1924 in Greens Farms, CT, daughter of the late Eugene W. & Iola Wise Stetson. Her father was the Chairman of Guaranty Trust Company of New York, now JP Morgan Chase. Mrs. Haverstick received her early education at the Brearley School in New York City and Chatham Hall in Virginia. She attended Vassar College and graduated from Barnard College, which is part of Columbia University. She received a Masters degree in American Literature from Columbia University in 1965. Barnard College and the importance of women's education became a lifelong interest of Mrs. Haverstick's. She was a trustee of that school for many years. This interest also led her to become a trustee of Kirkland College, now merged into Hamilton College, in its formative years. A free lance writer for much of her life, Mrs. Haverstick worked sucessively for the New York Sun, Life Magazine and the Saturday Review before becoming Secretary to the Committee at Yale University, charged with publishing the papers of James Boswell, the biographer of Samuel Johnson, in the early 1960's. During the 1960's she was a frequent contributor to the book review section of The New York Times. She also co-adapted for children with Betty Yates Shepherd, Owen Chase's narrative, The Wreck of the Whaleship Essex, which documents the ramming and sinking of that whaling ship by a sperm whale and the voyage of the survivors in lifeboats until their ultimate rescue. It is generally believed that the sinking of the ship by a whale became part of Herman Melville's inspiration for Moby Dick. Shortly before her final illness, which lasted four years, Mrs. Haverstick helped to create ''Emerging Voices'', an exhibition of American Women Writers from 1650-1920, which was held at the Grolier Club in New York in the spring of 1998. A collector of rare books, Mrs. Haverstick was also noted for her small, but excellent, collection of American painters, particularly those of the Ashcan and Hudson Valley schools. In addition to her several trusteeships, Mrs. Haverstick was also a member of the Grolier Club, the Cosmopolitan Club and the Colony Club in New York City and the Litchfield Country Club in Connecticut. A founding member of the Pony Club of America, she continued this interest as a member and master of several fox hunts and later as a competitive horse and carriage driver. She was a member of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem and President of the Pine Level Foundation, which was established by her father. Mrs. Haverstick's only marriage to John Mitchell Haverstick ended in divorce. One son, S. Alexander Haverstick of Short Hills, NJ and St. John, USVI, one brother, Charles P. Stetson of Southport, CT and four grandchildren survive her. Funeral services and burial are private. For more information contact the Rowe Funeral Home of Litchfield.
      