
        HIRSCHL-Norman S., 86. Died April 2, 2002 at his home in Williamstown, MA. The Founder and Chairman Emeritus of Hirschl & Adler Galleries, he was a past president of the Art Dealers Association, and a charismatic supporter of causes related to the arts, youth, and American history. An adored and devoted father, grandfather, and great-grandfather, his daughter and son-in-law, Elaine & John, his grandchildren, Jennifer and Andrew, Samantha and John, Kate and Michael, Peter and Heidi, and his great-grandchildren, Jonathan, Sarah, Emma, Caroline, Nina, and Kobe are grateful for his unfailing love, support, wisdom, and the example of the continual joy and delight he took in life. Had he not chosen a career in art, the world would have gained an accomplished composer and pianist. No family event was complete without one of his special songs. Recollections of him at the piano sharing his talent and charm brighten our memory. He was predeceased by his adored and cherished wife of 63 years, Barbara, in February. A memorial service will be held on Sunday April 7, 2002 at 6:00 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, Madison Avenue at 81st Street, followed by a reception at Hirschl & Adler Galleries, 21 East 70th Street. The world is emptier for his absence and infinitely richer for his life.
        HIRSCHL-Norman S. A highly respected art dealer, a founder and Chairman Emeritus of Hirschl & Adler Galleries, a former President of the Art Dealers Association of America, and a founder of the Art and Antique Dealers League of America, Inc., died at the age of 86 on Tuesday, in Williamstown, Ma. Stuart P. Feld, President, and the entire staff at Hirschl & Adler Galleries wish to extend their deepest sympathies to the Hirschl family and will profoundly miss their dear friend and colleague.
        HIRSCHL-Norman S. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their distinguished colleague, a Founding Member, Past President and Director. A leader in his field, he was respected for his knowledge and connoisseurship and admired for his humanity and generosity. Our sympathy and condolences to his daughter Elaine Ellis, his granchildren and great grandchildren. Richard Gray, President Gilbert S. Edelson, Admin VP
      