
        ROSS-Ginny (nee Fisher). On April 11, 2002 in her 90th year, of complications after a fall. She was a founder of the Mt. Sinai Hospital of Miami Beach, FL, a founder of the Miami Jewish Home for the Aged, a board member and honorary chair of the women's division of the ADL of New York. She was the devoted wife of the late Harry Ross, beloved mother of Paul and Stuart, mother-in-law and friend of Nancy and Marjorie, adored grandmother of Deni, David, Kara (Moskowitz), and Eric. Great-grandmother of Brooke, Ethan, Harrison, Donovan, Matthew and Eliza. She was the last surviving sister of Dave, Martin, Larry and Zachary Fisher. She was a woman of large spirit and great humor, forgiving, kind, generous and loyal. Service at Lakeside Memorial Park, Miami, FL, Sunday, 11:15 AM.
        ROSS-Virginia. We express our condolences to her children Stuart and Paul Ross, their families, and to the Fisher family on such a great loss. Ginny was a compassionate individual who loved life and everyone around her. Her late brother Zachary founded the Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research Foundation. She will be missed by all who were fortunate enough to be acquainted with her. With deepest condolences-from all at Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research Foundation. Michael Stern, President and CEO
        ROSS-Virginia. On behalf of the entire Intrepid Museum family, we extend our deepest condolences to Stuart and Paul Ross, their families and the Fisher family. Ginny was the beloved sister of the late Zachary Fisher who worked tirelessly to save the World War II aircraft carrrier, U.S.S. Intrepid from the scrap heap and convert it into the Intrepid Sea Air Space Museum. Lt Gen Martin R. Steele, USMC (Ret.), President and CEO Bill White, Chief Operating Officer Intrepid Museum
        ROSS-Virginia. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Virginia Ross, honorary Chair of ADL's Women's Division. We extend our sincere condolences to her sons Paul and Stuart, and to the entire Ross family. Glen A. Tobias National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman National Director Carol Ostrow Hochfelder Women's Division Chair
        ROSS-Virginia. We were truly saddened to hear of the loss of our beloved aunt Ginny, and as much as it pains us to see her go, we know that she lived a great life. She was full of joy and touched all those who knew her in a special way. May the memories of her journey on earth remain with us always. Richard, Tony, Kenneth, Steven, Candia and Karen
        ROSS-Virginia. Ginny, beloved sister of Martin, Larry and Zachary, the founders of Fisher Brothers, was a caring and committed philanthropist. We extend our deepest condolences to her children, Stuart and Paul Ross, and know that her memory will last forever. Fisher Brothers
        ROSS-Virginia. It is with the deepest regret that we bid goodbye to our beloved aunt, Ginny. Her kindness and the warmth of her love will never be forgotten. May you rest in peace always. Arnold and Audrey Fisher
      