
        GETNICK-Irving M. Of Freeport, New York, passed away at the Jewish Home and Hospital in New York City on April 26, 2002. He was the loving and beloved husband of Zita, who passed away on April 30, 1993, after fifty-four years of marriage. Mr. Getnick completed his undergraduate education at the City College of the City University of New York, graduating with honors in government and law. He was a graduate of Harvard University Law School and admitted to the New York Bar in 1937. An early leader of the political reform movement in New York City, he helped build and was president of the largest Liberal Party Club in Brooklyn, New York. A strong believer and advocate for pro bono service, Mr. Getnick taught business law and was pro bono counsel to a minority business development organization in New York City. Mr Getnick had a longtime involvement in synagogue affairs, having served on the Board of Trustees and as president of the Men's Club of the Baldwin Jewish Center, Baldwin, New York. An avid reader, his favorite book was his family bible. He was honored by the Baldwin Jewish Center for his leadership by example. An active trial lawyer, he developed a broad practice, and in 1983 was joined by his son, Neil, in establishing the firm, Getnick and Getnick, currently with offices in Manhattan. His son, Michael, a lawyer in Utica, New York, is counsel to the firm. His high abilities in the practice of law were matched by his love and devotion to the profession he so respected. He is survived by his sister and brother-inlaw, Ethel and Irving Minsky. His brother, George, and sister, Sylvia, predeceased him. He has an adoring family of three children: daughter, Stefanie Getnick; son and daughter-in-law, Michael and Susan Getnick; son and daughterin-law, Neil Getnick and Margaret Finerty; four grandchildren, Brian and Kevin Getnick, Courtney and Katherine Finerty, and many nieces and nephews. The bonds and devotion he shared with his parents, Hyman and Becky Getnick; brother and sisters; his special relationship with his motherin-law, Clara Ellman; sister-in-law, Connie Hoffman and brother-inlaw and sister-in-law, Julius and June Ellman have enriched the lives of everyone in the Getnick and Ellman families. ''To do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your G-d.'' His life inspires and guides us. His favorite saying was: ''It is one thing to be blessed, but another to know you have been blessed.'' All of his family, loved ones and friends know they have been blessed by his life. A funeral service will be held at Gutterman's Funeral Home at 175 Long Beach Road in Rockville Centre, New York, at 12 noon, on Sunday, April 28, 2002. Memorial contributions may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York City, New York.
      