
        ALFREDO-Frank A. Died unexpectedly on April 18, 2002, during his return home to Waccabuc, NY, from Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Frank was born in Mt. Vernon, NY, to the late Albert and Rose Alfredo. He was a devoted and loving husband to Dolores Palmer Alfredo for 42 years and the adoring father of five children, Thomas Alfredo of Goldens Bridge, NY, Rosemary Divitto of Ridgefield, CT, Robert Alfredo of Ridgefield, CT, Jennifer Mosolino of Pound Ridge, NY, and Karen Panzirer of Katonah, NY. He was also a role model to his 11 grandchildren. Frank also leaves behind two sisters, Nancy DePippo and Rose Carille, and a brother, Joseph Alfredo. Frank, founder of Alfredo Landscape and Development Corporation of Armonk, NY, won numerous state and national awards as an accomplished landscape architect in the New York and Connecticut areas. He earned a degree in horticulture and landscape architecture and a Bachelor of Business Administration at Iona College. Frank Alfredo raised his five children in Bedford Hills, NY, and more recently resided with his wife Dolores in Waccabuc, NY. His greatest pleasure was his family; second to that, Frank enjoyed many days during his recent retirement as a golf member of the Waccabuc Country Club, Manchester Country Club in Manchester, VT, and the PGA and Ibis Golf Clubs in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Frank, a perfect gentleman, has left us all too soon and will be unimaginably missed by his family and many friends. We love you! Calling hours at Clark Associates Funeral Home, Katonah, NY, on Monday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial will be on Tuesday at St. Patrick's R.C. Church, Bedford Village, NY, at 10:30 AM. Interment will follow at Gate of Heaven Cemetery, Hawthorn, NY.
        ALFREDO-Frank. A true friend to all that knew him. His tremendous strength, wisdom and integrity set a great example for us and so many others. Our heartfelt condolences to Dolores and the entire family. He will be sorely missed. Eric Rosen Steven Merdinger
      