
        BERNSTEIN-Sidney, Dr. Died at 89 years of age on April 25, 2002, in Scarsdale, NY. Born in Brooklyn on May 28, 1912, to the late Samuel and Anna (Weisberg) Bernstein. Devoted and loving husband to Ethel; beloved father to Barry and Betsy Bernstein, and Richard A. and Amelia Bernstein. Adoring and proud grandfather to Andrew, Bradley and Jennifer, and soon-tobe grandson-in-law, Gregg Rothkin, and loved by his surviving twin brother, Harold Bernstein. Sidney graduated from Tufts University with a DMD degree in 1936 and practiced dentistry in New York City for 40 years. He will be greatly missed by his close family and friends. Services will be held at Congregation Emanu-El of Westchester, 2 PM, Sunday, April 28, 2002. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made in Dr. Bernstein's memory at the NYU Medical Center Critical Care Unit, White Plains Medical Center, or the Police Athletic League (PAL).
        BERNSTEIN-Sidney, Dr. Dear Dad, you were very special to me. I loved you dearly. You were kind, giving and loving. I loved sharing my life with you. You didn't tell me where to send the coupons! I will miss you terribly. Amelia
        BERNSTEIN-Dr. Sidney. It is with our sincerest condolences that we express our sorrow over the passing of Dr. Sidney Bernstein, father of our esteemed partner and life time friends Richard A. and Amelia Bernstein. We knew him to be a devoted, proud and kind-hearted gentleman. We will remember him for his benevolence and loving manner toward his family and friends. Our love to his wife Ethel and the entire Bernstein family. James and JoAnn Cohen Ira and Judy Gomberg Steven and Mallory Grossman
        BERNSTEIN-Sidney. We mourn the passing of Sidney Bernstein. To his loving wife, Ethel; children, Richard, Amelia, Barry and Betsy; grandchildren, Bradley, Jennifer, Gregg and Andrew, we extend our deepest sympathy. Gail and Mark Nancy and Neil
        BERNSTEIN-Sidney, Dr. Sidney and his entire family wish to express their everlasting gratitude for the superior medical care and personal concern he received from his physicians, Dr. Jeanett Yuen, Dr. David Goldberg, Dr. Marvin Lippman, and the entire Scarsdale Medical Group. They practiced the Hippocratic oath they took. Joined by his nurse, Mary Lou Kashetta, R.N., they provided long life, comfort and well being. Sidney's family will forever be grateful.
      