
        FRIEDMAN-Isidore. Passed away in Jerusalem on April 9, 2002 at the age of 95. Born in Belgium, a WW II veteran, he immigrated to New York in 1941. He was an active Zionist and Secretary and Arbitrator of the Diamond Dealers Club. His community activities included Congregation Morya, Israel Bonds, Bar Ilan University, Shaare Zedek Memory Clinic, MatanWoman's Institute for Torah Studies and Kolech-Religious Women's Forum. He is survived by Nathalie Kleinhaus Friedman, his wife of 64 years, two daughters, Rachel Shalev and Suzanne Hoch stein, sons-in-law Joseph and Micky, grandchildren and great grandchildren.
        FRIEDMAN-Isidore. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University and the university in Israel mourn the passing of an outstanding Jewish communal leader and one of its important benefactors for many years, Isidore Friedman. We extend condolences to his wife Nathalie, daughters Rachel, Suzanne and the entire family. At Bar-Ilan University, he sponsored substantial programs including a significant lectureship, and was a member of our Presidential Founders Society. We share with the family many inspiring memories. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, Chancellor Prof. Moshe Kaveh, President, Bar-Ilan University Melvin Stein, President, American Board of Trustees
        FRIEDMAN-Isidore. It is with sadness that we learned of the death of our beloved uncle, Isidore Friedman. While living in the U.S., he provided visa sponsorship for us and other refugees enabling us to reach the safety of these shores. His generosity, good deeds and wise counsel will be missed by us all. Rosy and Yitzhak Stub, and Silvia and Nathan Drenger, and their children and grandchildren
        FRIEDMAN-Isidore. We regret to announce the death of our beloved board member Isidore Friedman. Our sincerest condolences to his devoted wife Natalie, his daughters Rachel Shalev and Suzanne Hochstein, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Shiva observed at Rechov Alharisi 34, Jerusalem 92421. Rabbi Joseph Weiss, Congregation Morya
      