
        ISOM-Pamela Jean (nee Hearn) was born in Houston, Texas, to Maurine H. and W. Glyn Hearn, on September 27, 1940. She graduated from Lubbock High School in 1958, then attended Texas Tech University, where she was a member of Pi Beta Phi fraternity. She graduated from North Texas State University with a B.A. in English. In 1961, she married O. Wayne Isom, from Idalou, established a residence in Dallas, and graduated from North Texas State University. She taught for one year in a Dallas public school and became active in the Lovers Lane United Methodist Church and Sunday school. Two children, Mark Wayne and Elizabeth Ann, were born in Dallas. The family moved to New York City, then to Mamaroneck, N.Y., where their third child, Christopher Andrew, was born. They later moved to Rye, NY. Mrs. Isom served as President of the Board of Trustees of The Montessori School of Westchester and was a member of the Westchester Junior League, the Westchester Children's Association, the P.E.O. Sisterhood, and the Rye Twig. She was a member of Rye Presbyterian Church. In 1990, Mrs. Isom returned to Dallas. She became a member of Highland Park United Methodist Church. For a year and a half, she fought a courageous battle against cancer, to which she succumbed on April 8, 2002. Mrs. Isom is survived by her three children, Mark Isom of St. Paul, Minnesota; Elizabeth Van den Branden, husband Eric, and their two children, Pamela Joelle and Audrey Marie, of Dallas; and Christopher Isom and wife Adrienne, of New York City. She was preceded in death by her father but is survived by her mother, Maurine Hearn, and her sister, Ann Hearn, of Dallas; by her brother, Glyn Hearn II, of New York; and by her niece and nephew, Amy and David Freeberg. Her greatest joy was family and friends, and she leaves to mourn her, a loving network of relatives and other persons whose lives have been irreplaceably enriched by her beauty, generosity, compasssion, steadfastness and grace. A Memorial Service will be held at 2:00 p.m., April 9, 2002, at Highland Park United Methodist Church, with Rev. William T. Stephenson officiating. Mrs. Isom's family requests that, in lieu of flowers, donations be sent to the Department of Hematology/Oncology, Southwestern Medical School, P.O. Box 910888, Dallas, Texas 75391-0888, in honor of Pamela Hearn Isom.
      