
        SMITH-Carol Rae. Beloved wife of Park B. Smith, was born into eternal life on May 16, 2002 while at their home in Lakeville, CT. Carol was born September 9, 1950 in Minneapolis, MN. She is survived by her devoted husband, Park B. Smith of New York City, NY, and Lakeville, CT; her parents, Richard Locken and Betty Rodriguez, & her sisters Marla, Janet, Nancy and brother David Locken, of Minneapolis, MN; and the Park and Terry Smith, and the Jim and Patty White families of Warren, NJ. As Co-Chair of Park B. Smith, Inc., of New York City, Carol's standard of excellence, attention to detail, and the ability to address issues head-on were essential to the growth of the company. Her legacy continues to inspire and guide those at PBS, Inc. Not only did Carol desire the success of the company, but also the personal growth and success of the many employees for whom she cared. Carol was intimately involved in all aspects of Park B. Smith, Inc., including operations, systems, finance and design. Not one facet of the business has gone untouched by Carol's intelligence and capability. Tough and demanding of herself as well as the others with whom she worked, Carol inspired all who knew her. She was not only a leader of the company, she was an integral part of the company, and will be greatly missed. As a team, Carol and her husband Park B. Smith built a company that exemplifies excellence, creativity, and excitement within the home furnishings industry. The foundation that Carol and Park built is based on loyalty, trust, and integrity. It is a solid foundation which bodes well for the present and future growth of PBS, Inc. Carol, also affectionately known as ''Toots,'' was a cherished wife, sister, daughter, aunt, grandmother and friend. Her never-ending smile, loving ways, and concern and love for others will be remembered. Carol lived with dignity, elegance, and quiet strength. We will miss her very much. May her memory live in our hearts. Friends may visit Sunday, May 19, 2002 from 2:00-5:00 and 7:00-9:00 PM at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, Madison Avenue at 81 St., NYC, NY. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated on Monday, May 20, 2002, at 10:00 AM at St. Vincent Ferrer, Lexington and 66 St., NYC, NY. A private family burial will follow in Salisbury, CT. In lieu of flowers, donations in Carol's name may be sent to The World Wildlife Fund, 1250 24 St., NW, PO Box 97180, Washington, D.C. 20090. (www.worldwildlife.org). The Smith, Locken and White Families
      