
        NEUWIRTH-Linda Hirsch. Died on Sunday, May 19, 2002, losing her final battle with cancer after a series of courageous victories over 20 years. Taken from us too soon, at 51 years of age. Courageous in death as in life. Beloved and cherished wife of Michael, loving and devoted mother of Evan, darling daughter of Bertha and David Hirsch, adored sister of Stanley and Gina Hirsch, caring sister-inlaw of Naomi and Jerry Neuwirth, and Louise and Bruce Magun. Professionally, Linda was a successful and highly respected psychoanalyst. She was active in the Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, and held many positions in the society. At the time of her death, she was Associate Dean and the Director of Admissions. Always a strong support for friends and family, this came naturally and instinctively to her, no matter how ill or preoccupied she was at the moment. All of us who knew and loved her were inspired and comforted by her courage, dignity and remarkable strength. We have lost an irreplacable treasure, a woman of incomprable grace and beauty with a heart to match. Our darling Linda, we will love and cherish you forever. Funeral at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76th St., NY, NY 10023, today at 10 AM.
        NEUWIRTH-Linda Hirsch. Linda, our love-the light of our lives has gone. Your beauty will be everlasting. We'll never say goodbye. You will be with us forever. Mom and Dad
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Linda Neuwirth, beloved wife of our dear friend and colleague, Michael Neuwirth, M.D., Director of the Beth Israel Spine Institute. To Michael, the entire Neuwirth family, and to all who loved her, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Boards of Trustees, Continuum and Beth Israel Peter A. Kelly, President & CEO, Continuum Matthew E. Fink, M.D., President, & CEO, Beth Israel W. Norman Scott, M.D., Chairman Dept. of Orthopedic Surgery Sidney K. Stein, M.D., President, Medical Board Robert L. Salant, M.D., President, Doctors Alumni Association
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. The physicians and staff of the Spine Institute at Beth Israel Medical Center are deeply saddened with the passing of Linda Neuwirth, beloved wife of our close friend and esteemed colleague, Michael Neuwirth, M.D. To Michael, their son Evan, and to all who loved her, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Andrew Casden, M.D., Assoc. Dir., The Spine Institute Paul Kuflik, M.D., Assoc. Dir. Fabien Bitan, M.D., Attending Spine Surgeon Stuart Kahn, M.D., Director, Spine and Pain Rehabilitation Alexander Lee, M.D., Attending Physiatrist Jarrett Stern, Administrator
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. The Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research (IPTAR), mourns the loss of our psychoanalyst colleague and friend. An extraordinary person admired for her intelligence, kindness and courage, she will be remembered as a valued and dedicated member of the IPTAR Training Institute Board and as the current Admissions Committee Chair. We send our sympathy to her husband, Michael and her son, Evan.
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of our congregant Linda Neuwirth. We extend our deepest condolences to Michael Neuwirth and their families. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. The Board of Governors and Members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Linda Neuwirth. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband Michael, her son Evan and the entire Neuwirth family. James Speiser, President Monty Davis, Secretary
        NEUWIRTH-Linda H. We build a green bower of willows and roses/ Sang of our pleasures and sang of our woes/How could we have known this would be your last summer/How precious the bower, how precious the rose. Rest in Peace, our precious Linda. We will love and cherish you forever. Marsha, Jake, Josh and Jenny
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. She was beyond compare. She lived her life full of vitality, compassion, generosity and love. She was strong, determined and optimistic. Fiercely devoted to her family and cherished by her friends. We deeply miss her. Cindie & Donald Kastenbaum
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. Our cherished friend; your warmth, intelligence, sensitivity and sense of humor will stay with us forever. May your memory be a source of comfort to Michael and Evan and the Neuwirth and Hirsch families. Jeri & Andy Casden and Family
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. Linda's courage, compassion, and ability to listen have been inspirational over the years. Our sympathy to Evan and to Michael for their profound loss. Emily and John Sherman
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. Dear Linda, your amazing strength, wisdom and endless love will be in our hearts forever. We hold Michael and Evan in our arms. Lovingly, Carol, Lenny, Adam and Mat
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. Our heartfelt sympathy and love to Mike and Evan, on the loss of beautiful Linda. Her warmth, charm, and courage truly touched our lives. Honey and Danny Casden Vivian and Bill Jaeger
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. You endured more than anyone should have to, just to be there for Michael and Evan. I will miss laughing with you, lunching with you, and learning from you. Ellen Gendler
        NEUWIRTH-Linda. First a neighbor, then a friend, then an inspiration. Always a rock and a strength that will be remembered forever. Connie and Richard
      