
        CLARK-Richard S. An intellectual property law attorney died on Saturday, May 18 of heart failure. He was 59 and lived in Croton Falls, NY for the past 26 years with his wife Monika. Mr. Clark was born and raised in Fairview Park, OH. He graduated from Northwestern University in 1965 and Northwestern Law School in 1968. Upon graduating from law school, he accepted his first job with the law firm Brumbaugh, Graves, Donohue and Raymond in NYC, now Baker Botts, LLP, where he worked for the next 34 years as an intellectual property law attorney. In September 2001, he joined the international law firm, Dorsey & Whitney, LLP, where he headed the patent practice of the NY office. He was lead counsel in significant intellectual property litigations, including Group One v. Hallmark Cards, a landmark intellectual property decision redefining the law of bars to patentability, and Eli Lilly v. Barr which invalidated the Prozac patent. Mr. Clark was Vice President and Trustee of Operation Sail, which organizes tall ship festivals, including OpSail 2000 held in NY on July 4, 2000. He was a faculty member at the Practicing Law Institute in NY. In addition to his wife Monika, he is survived by his chocolate lab, Kahlua, his children Samantha Boege of Bedford, NY and Richard Clark of Charlotte, NC, his stepchildren, Mark Penta of Randolph, VT and Heidi Penta of Warren, VT, his siblings, Constance Lauderback of Bay Village, OH, Claudia Potter of Mabank, TX and Lewis Clark, and three grandaughters, Kendall and Harper Boege and Caden Clark. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, May 22 at 3PM at the South Salem Presbyterian Church in South Salem, NY.
        CLARK-Richard S. On May 18, 2002. The partners and staff of Dorsey & Whitney LLP mourn the sudden passing of our partner and colleague, Rick Clark. Rick was a leading member of the patent bar. He headed the patent practice of our New York office and was widely respected for his professionalism, great skill and unfailing courtesy. Our deepest condolences to his family; he will be missed. Dorsey & Whitney LLP
      