
        DIAZ-William A. Age 56. Passed away at his home in St. Paul, Mn. on May 18, 2002. A man of great strength, courage and generosity, he was born in New York City and received his undergraduate, M.S. and PhD at Fordham University. Bill was a Senior Fellow and professor at the University of Minnesota's Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs where he directed a program of research, teaching and writing on the relationship between public policy, philanthropy, and the non-profit sector, and taught public management. Prior to joining the Institute, Dr. Diaz was the Ford Foundation's first Latino program officer and he developed a special Foundation initiative concerning the Hispanic population described in ''Hispanics: Challenges and Opportunities''. His earlier professional experience included Senior Research Associate at Manpower Development Research Corporation and Program Officer at the Twentieth Century Fund. Dr. Diaz was a nationally recognized expert on the U.S. Latino population, and was the Vice Chairman of the Minnesota State Chicano Latino Affairs Council. Dr. Diaz has received the Premio Herencia Award from Hispanics in Philanthropy, which honors an individual whose longstanding leadership and vision has advanced philanthropic commitment to diversity and responsiveness in Latino communities. He had a lifelong commitment of service, working with non-profit and philanthropic organizations. At the time of his death, Dr. Diaz served as a Board member of Council on Foundations; El Fondo Diversity Fund, St. Paul Foundation; Family Services of St. Paul; The Disability Funders Network and was a trustee of the Puerto Rico Community Foundation. Beloved husband of Dorothy Thompson, father to Sarah and Alex, son of Margarita, brother to Yvette and uncle to Cara and Michael, Peter, Laura, and William, and cherished by the extended Thompson family. He will be missed deeply for his wonderful sense of humor, his spirit and his very loving demeanor with his family and friends and all whom he encountered. Visitation Thursday, May 23, 2002, 5-8PM at Bradshaw, 678 Snelling Avenue South, St. Paul, Mn. 55116 (651-698-3878). Service Friday, May 24, 2002, 4pm, at St. John's Episcopal, St. Paul, Mn. In lieu of flowers, the family requests memorials: Puerto Rico Community Fund, P.O. Box 70362, San Juan, Puerto Rico 00936-8362; El Fundo, St. Paul Community Foundation, 55 5th Street East, Suite 600, St. Paul, Mn. 55101; Family Services of St. Paul, 166 East 4th Street, St. Paul, Mn. 55101.
      