
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. 86, died suddenly in South Hampton, Saturday, May 18. He was a lifelong resident of New York City, where for more than fifty years, he was a prominent and highly respected real estate owner, builder and developer. He was also a most beloved husband, father, brother and grandfather. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Cynthia Zirinsky, a daughter, Susan Zirinsky of New York City, and a son, Richard W. Zirinsky Jr. of Sag Harbor, NY. His daughter Barbara Faden predeceased him. He also has two grandchildren, Cynthia Deutsch and Zoe Peyronnin, both of New York City. One brother Daniel Zirinsky surives him. His brother Ralph Zirinsky and his sister Betty Zirinsky predeceased him. Richard Zirinsky was born on October 20, 1915, in Brooklyn, NY. He graduated from Syracuse University in 1938 with a degree in business administration. He was a member of the Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity. In WWII he served in the United States Navy, rising to the rank of Lieutenant J.G. and served in the Pacific on the USS Edwards as a communications officer. Following the war he, his brothers and a cousin, the late Lawrence Zirinsky, invested and built numerous industrial real estate properties in Brooklyn and Long Island City. In 1959, Richard and Lawrence teamed up to build Gracie Square Hospital in New York City, one of the largest private psychiatric hospitals in the United States. He later became the sole owner and ran the hospital with his wife until 1992, when New York Hospital acquired it. Richard was also a Trustee of the New York Institute of Technology, Old Westbury, NY, where he played a major role in that school's exspansion and received an honorary doctoral degree. He served on the Board of the Kildonan School for Dyslexic Children and he was on the Board of the Parkinson Disease Foundation at New York's Prestyberian Hospital. Visitation will be Tuesday, May 21, from 7-9 PM, at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 81st St and Madison Ave, in New York City. The funeral service will take place at 11 AM, Wednesday, May 22, at Temple Emanu-El at 5th Avenue and 65th St, NY, NY. The burial will follow at Mount Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY. Donations in his name can be made to The Barbara Zirinsky Fund at Beth Israel Hospital, NY, NY 10003; or the Parkinson Disease Foundation, New York Presbyterian Hospital, NY, NY 10032.
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. Lawrence Zirinsky Associates mourns the passing of our cousin and business associate. Our sincerest condolence to the family.
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. The Board of Trustees and the staff of The New York Gracie Square Hospital mourn the loss, on May 18, 2002, of the co-founder of the hospital. He had a long and distinguished career as a land developer and realtor, and he was a generous contributor to many charities. With his wife, Cynthia, he founded the hospital in 1959 and served as First Chairman on our Board for more than 30 years. We knew and revered him as a gentle, warm, and dedicated leader. We respected his integrity and dependability, we admired his selfless and steadfast dedication to the goals of the hospital, and we relished his contagious optimism and sense of humor. It is with profound sadness that we extend our sympathy to his wife; to his children, Susan Zirinsky Peyronin and Richard Jr., and to his granddaughters, Cynthia Deutsch Eckis and Zoe Peyronin. Viewing will be held on Tuesday, May 21, 2002, from 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel located at 1076 Madison Avenue on 81st Street and services will be on Wednesday, May 22, 2002, at 11:00 a.m. at Temple Emanu-El located at 1 East 65th Street on Fifth Avenue. Edwin W. Franklin Chairman of the Board of Trustees Frank Bruno President and Chief Executive Officer Robert Campbell, M.D. Medical Director
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W., Sr. He lived his collegiate years, 19341938, to the fullest, as a frater of Eta Chapter of Sigma Alpha Mu at Syracuse University. His contagious zest for life, during those years, was fully and freely shared with his fraternity brothers, amongst whom he was an admired and respected undergraduate leader. Subsequently, as an alumnus, he continually promoted and supported the welfare of Eta Chapter, and through it, the best interests of Syracuse University. These formative collegiate years provided him with a deep attachment to the Chapter, which he maintained throughout the rest of his life. This was self evident in the many life-long friendships he developed with his classmates, many of whom he will now meet in our Chapter Eternal. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Cynthia, their chldren and families, and hope that his memory will provide an appreciated legacy of a life fully lived. Eta Chapter, S.A.M. Foundation Leonard Rubin, Bd. Ch. Emeritus Marshall M. Gelfand, President
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. The attorneys of Loeb & Loeb LLP mourn with profound sadness the loss of our friend and client, Richard W. Zirinksy, Sr. We admired his devotion to his family, his accomplishments in the real estate industry, and his service to the community as a member of numerous boards. He was a warm, thougthful, engaging and generous man. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved wife Cynthia, his daughter Susan, his son Richard Jr., and the entire Zirinsky family.
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. With great sadness, we note the passing of our treasured friend and client of many years, whose great integrity, sense of personal loyalty and humor will be deeply missed by us all. We extend our deepest sympathy to Cynthia on the passing of her beloved husband. Our heartfelt thoughts are with you, Richard, Jr., and Susan, on your great loss. Herrick, Feinstein LLP
        ZIRINSKY-Richard, Sr. The Directors and the community of the Parkinson's Disease Foundation have lost a wise advisor, a generous supporter and a loyal friend. We mourn with his wife Cynthia and their talented family and share with them our memories of a grand and fine man. Lewis P. Rowland, M.D., President Stanley Fahn, M.D., Scientific Dir. Robin Anthony Elliott, Exec. Dir.
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W. The partners and associates of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield mourn the loss of our friend and longtime client. We extend our condolences to Mr. Zirinsky's family, friends and admirers, all of whom will miss him deeply. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W., Sr. To our beloved and wonderful family friend, we have cherished all of our special times with you. With all our love, The Corroon Family Helen, Holly, Bob, Dick, Andree, and the twins
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W., Sr. Thank you Richard for your friendship, kindness, generosity, never ending positive attitude, your personal lessons on the benefits of honesty and integrity and, most importantly, your love. Fondly, Bob Corroon, Jr.
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. Our beloved brother, uncle, brother-in-law; we will miss you for the rest of our lives. Brother Daniel, and his Family, Gilda, Steven, Paula, Mark, Laura, David, Robert, and the Schiff and Monoson Families
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. All of us at Greiner-Maltz Company mourn the passing of a long-time and dear friend, and extend our condolences to his entire family. Bill Greiner Dick Maltz
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. Farewell beloved friend of a lifetime. We will always remember you. Ruth and Ed King
      