
        PINNEY-Attorney A. Searle, age 81, of Brookfield, CT, retired senior partner in the law firm of Pinney, Payne, Van Lenten, Burrell, Wolfe and Dillman of Danbury, CT, died on Tuesday, April 30, 2002 at his residence. He was the husband of the late Evelyn (Roberts) Pinney. Attorney Pinney was born September 14, 1920 in New Milford, CT, a son of the late Jairus Searle and Elsie M. (Lightfoot) Pinney. Educated in the Danbury, CT public schools, he graduated from the Danbury High School, Class of 1938, and received a Bachelor of Arts Degree from Tufts University in 1942. Upon graduation from Tufts University, he entered the U.S. Army Air Force, serving as a navigator on B-24 bombers in Europe. Earning the rank of Second Lieutenant, he was honorably discharged in 1945. Through the G.I. Bill, Attorney Pinney entered Harvard University School of Law, from which he graduated with a Bachelor of Law Degree in February, 1948. Attorney Pinney began his career as an associate with a law firm in Bridgeport, CT until the fall of 1948, at which time he, with his life long friend, the late Supreme Court Justice T. Clark Hull, joined the late Judge Louis George to form the law firm of George, Hull and Pinney in Danbury. The firm merged in 1958, and became known as Sherwood, George, Hull and Pinney, and subsequently expanded through the 1960's and 1970's to become known as Pinney, Payne, Van Lenten, Burrell, Wolfe and Dillman, from which Attorney Pinney retired as Senior Partner after more that 50 years of practice. A resident of Brookfield, CT since the late 1940's, Attorney Pinney was active in civic affairs in both Brookfield and Danbury. He served on the Executive Committee of the Danbury Industrial Corporation, and was a member of the Housatonic Industrial Development Corporation. He was also an active member in the administration and growth of the Danbury Hospital Development Fund. He served as a member of the Connecticut State University System since 1979, and was its Chairman from 1991 through 1995. In appreciation of his service, Pinney Hall, a dormitory on the Western Connecticut State University's westside campus was named in his honor. Attorney Pinney was a member of the State of Connecticut House of Representatives, where he served as Minority Leader of the Connecticut General Assembly and was Republican State Central Committee Chairman during the 1960's. As a member of the Connecticut Bar Association, he was Chairman of the Statewide Grievance Committee, a member of the Judicial Council on Legal Ethics, the Committee on Professional Discipline and the Committee on Liaison with the Courts. In recognition of his many contributions to the Bar he was named the recipient of the John Eldred Schields Distinguished Professional Service Award in 1991. He was appointed Chairman of the Judicial Council on Legal Ethics by the Chief Justice of the State of Connecticut to develop the necessary procedures for implementing rules changes in the attorneys' disciplinary process. Locally, Attorney Pinney was a member of the Congregational Church of Brookfield, served as a Town Counsel for the Town of Brookfield from 1951 through 1975, was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Wooster School from 1960 through 1991, was a member of the Board of Directors of the Savings Bank of Danbury since 1972, on which he served as Chairman. He was also the recipient of the Cecil J. Previdi Award in 1997 which is awarded by the Mayor of the City of Danbury in recognition of his contributions to the business community. He was an avid reader of British mystery novels and loved to travel. Attorney Pinney is survived by his sister, Alma Jean Hayman, of Roanoke, VA, and his nephew, Vincent White, of Lakeland, FL. Memorial services will be held on Thursday, May 16th at the Congregational Church of Brookfield, Route 25, Brookfield Center, Connecticut at 11:00 A.M. Interment will be private. There are no calling hours. The Hull Funeral Home, Sixty Division Street, Danbury for further information.
      