
        REINER-Charles. On May 15, 2002. With profound sadness and an overwhelming sense of loss, his devoted family and friends mourn his untimely passing after a brief illness. Born in NYC 1946 and raised in Great Neck, NY, he made his homes in Larchmont, NY and West Otis, MA. The son of Norma and the late Jules Reiner, he was an adoring father to Alysia Reiner (daughter of Gail), Katharine (daughter of Terry), and loving father (in-law) of David Basche. He was the older brother of Elizabeth (Paul) and Barry (Andrea) and beloved uncle to Douglas, Benjamin, Allison and Lauren and adored nephew of Joy and Myles Eiten and fond cousin to their children Jonathan (Amy), Emily (Itzhak), Daniel and David (Meg). After obtaining his Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology, he was in private practice for several years. He then founded Vector Strategic Resources, a major national management consulting firm. His associates agree he was able to see the future no matter how confused the present, and engaged his clients in striving for the art of the possible. He was masterful in creating visions for businesses that clients found both inspiring and practical. His company's mission was, above all else ''Make a difference; have fun.'' Reiner was a film enthusiast who started Preferred Films, Ltd, which produced several independent features. His love of the arts, as participant and benefactor was second only to his love of family and friends, for whom he will always remain a beacon. The family is grateful to all those who have been so supportive during this most difficult time. Services Sunday 10 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in his memory can be made and payable to Tanglewood-for the Jules C. Reimer Violin Prize-c/o Boston Symphony Orchestra 301 Massachusetts Ave.,Boston, MA 02115.
        REINER-Charles. We deeply mourn the tragic passing of our beloved nephew and cousin. We will remember him with pride. Aunt Joy and Uncle Myles, Jonathan, Amy, Emily, Itzhak, Daniel, David and Meg
      