
        HERTZIG-Morris. 93, died at Sweetbrook Care Center, Williamstown, MA, May 4th, 2002. Born in Chicago, IL, August 3rd, 1908, the son of Harry and Celia Tannenbaum Hertzig, he was raised in Brooklyn, NY. Following graduation from Boys High School in Brooklyn, he attended the College of the City of New York City College from which he received his undergraduate degree, Phi Beta Kappa, in 1929, and a Master's Degree in Mathematics and Education the following year. His long association with the New York City school system began with his appointment as a teacher of mathematics at Haran High School in 1929. He also taught mathematics at Grover Cleveland High School, before becoming the Chair of the Department of Mathematics at Townsend Harris High School in Manhattan. He then became Chairman of the Department of Mathematics at the newly opened Forest Hills High School in 1941. In 1947, he was appointed Principal of Junior High School 252 in Brooklyn, and later served as the Principal of Junior High School 217 in Queens. Always an inspiration to students, it was during his years as a junior high school principal that his efforts to insure that all students reached their educational potential truly flowered. Long before the women's movement gained momentum, he regularly visited the homes of academically able girls for the purpose of convincing reluctant parents to permit their daughters to register for college preparatory courses in high school. He had a profound effect on many students as he guided them and instilled in them an unending thirst for knowledge and success. Shortly before his retirement in 1971, he served for two years with the Board of Examiners of the City of New York, devoting himself to making sure that newly appointed teachers and administrators possessed the requisite skills to perform their jobs. Following his retirement to Lake Worth, FL, he became an active member of that community. A founding member of the Foreign Policy Discussion Group, he also served on the Board of the local Public Radio Station. He was a founding member of the Adult Education Program held at the Palm Beach Community College and served on the Board of Directors for many years. He continued to spend summers on Lake Sebago in Raymond, ME, receiving a constant stream of visitors, including many former students, whom he delighted with guided tours of the improvements he had made to the property, including a 200 foot long rock retaining wall along the shore of the lake. His wife, Grace Koenig Hertzig, whom he married on March 29th, 1934, died on June 18th, 1989. He is survived by a son, Dr. Robert Hertzig of Williamstown, MA, and a daughter, Dr. Margaret E. Hertzig of New York City, a brother, Bernard Hertzig of Lake Worth, FL, a sister, Dorothy Weiss of Boca Raton, FL, four grandchildren, Megan Hertzig Sharon, Jeremy S. Hertzig, Sarah E. Birch and Dr. Martin L. Birch, as well as his devoted companion, Janou Walcutt. He is sorely missed. Graveside services will be held at Beth Moses Cemetery, Long Island, NY, on Sunday, May 12th, 2002 at 11 AM.
      