
        MANDEVILLE-Hubert Turner. Known as ''T'', of New York City, previously of Fairfield, CT died peacefully in New York City on Monday, May 20th, with his family present. He was 79 years old. Mr. Mandeville was born in Utica, NY on September 11, 1922 to Ernest W. Mandeville and Ruth Turner Mandeville. He is predeceased by his wife Ann Adams Mandeville and his brothers Michael Lloyd Mandeville and Charles L. Mandeville. He is survived by his brother Ernest W. Mandeville, Jr., his sister Margaret Mandeville, his second wife Deborah L. Bowers, and his eight children, Christopher, Meredith M. Hollis, Matthew, Kempton, Jonathan, William, Morgan and Ross. He is also survived by 17 grandchildren, Erinn, Ariel, Krista, Amanda, Julia, Turner, Adelaide, Elizabeth, William, Allison, Courtney, Kempton, Henry, Estelle, Paulina, Michael and Carlos. He attended Ridley College, St. Catharine's, Ontario, from 1935 to 1940. He earned his undergraduate degree in Engineering from Yale University in 1944 and his law degree from Yale University Law School in 1947. He was a longtime member of the Yale Club of New York City. Mr. Mandeville married Ann Adams of Redding Ridge, CT in July of 1948. He was a partner with Pennie, Edmonds, Morton, Barrows and Taylor, Attorneys at Law, in New York City until January, 1961 when he established the patent law firm of Mandeville and Schweitzer with Fritz L. Schweitzer, Jr. Mr. Mandeville was on the governing boards of several educational, philanthropic and corporate organizations including Ridley College in St. Catharine's, Ontario, Westover School, St. Lawrence University, St. Barnabas College of Johannesburg, South Africa, Up With People, White Consolidated Industries and Tally Industries. Mr. Mandeville established The Mandeville Foundation, Inc., a private family foundation, in 1961, of which he was President and Treasurer from 1961 to the present. Mr. Mandeville had a great interest in providing seed support for organizations with limited opportunities for funding. He was also a supporter of many educational institutions and youth organizations including the Outward Bound School and the Andrew Glover Youth Program of New York City. Mr. Mandeville requested that there be no funeral or memorial service held on his behalf. In lieu of flowers, he would be pleased if you made a gift to a charity of your choice.
      