
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. 86, died suddenly in South Hampton, Saturday, May 18. He was a lifelong resident of New York City, where for more than fifty years, he was a prominent and highly respected real estate owner, builder and developer. He was also a most beloved husband, father, brother and grandfather. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Cynthia Zirinsky, a daughter, Susan Zirinsky of New York City, and a son, Richard W. Zirinsky Jr. of Sag Harbor, NY. His daughter Barbara Faden predeceased him. He also has two grandchildren, Cynthia Deutsch and Zoe Peyronnin, both of New York City. One brother Daniel Zirinsky surives him. His brother Ralph Zirinsky and his sister Betty Zirinsky predeceased him. Richard Zirinsky was born on October 20, 1915, in Brooklyn, NY. He graduated from Syracuse University in 1938 with a degree in business administration. He was a member of the Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity. In WWII he served in the United States Navy, rising to the rank of Lieutenant J.G. and served in the Pacific on the USS Edwards as a communications officer. Following the war he, his brothers and a cousin, the late Lawrence Zirinsky, invested and built numerous industrial real estate properties in Brooklyn and Long Island City. In 1959, Richard and Lawrence teamed up to build Gracie Square Hospital in New York City, one of the largest private psychiatric hospitals in the United States. He later became the sole owner and ran the hospital with his wife until 1992, when New York Hospital acquired it. Richard was also a Trustee of the New York Institute of Technology, Old Westbury, NY, where he played a major role in that school's exspansion and received an honorary doctoral degree. He served on the Board of the Kildonan School for Dyslexic Children and he was on the Board of the Parkinson Disease Foundation at New York's Prestyberian Hospital. Visitation will be Tuesday, May 21, from 7-9 PM, at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 81st St and Madison Ave, in New York City. The funeral service will take place at 11 AM, Wednesday, May 22, at Temple Emanu-El at 5th Avenue and 65th St, NY, NY. The burial will follow at Mount Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY. Donations in his name can be made to The Barbara Zirinsky Fund at Beth Israel Hospital, NY, NY 10003; or the Parkinson Disease Foundation, New York Presbyterian Hospital, NY, NY 10032.
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Richard W. Zirinsky Sr. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. Our beloved uncle and family patriarch, always kind and will be forever missed. Jill and Mark Hirsch and Family
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. With deep sorrow, the Mental Health Association of New York City mourns the sudden passing of Richard Zirinsky, kind and generous man to all who knew him. We extend heartfelt condolences to his devoted and loving wife Cynthia, daughter Susan and her husband Joseph Peyronnin III, son Richard Jr. and his wife Francesca, and to the entire Zirinsky family. Richard Sr. was a longtime and generous supporter of the work of the Mental Health Association and contributed greatly to the betterment of thousands of people who suffer from serious mental illness. Richard's humanitarian efforts were shared and built upon by his wife Cynthia, esteemed founder and Vice President of the the Mental Health Association of NYC, and by Joseph Peyronnin, member of its Board. Richard will be deeply missed by his friends, colleagues, and by all of us at MHA, but his many contributions to those in need will live on. Lawrence Chong, President Leonard Polisar, Chair Howard Sharfstein, Chair Giselle Stolper, Exec. Director
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. Our beloved brother, uncle, brother-in-law; we will miss you for the rest of our lives. Brother Daniel, and his Family, Gilda, Steven, Paula, Mark, Laura, David, Robert, and the Schiff and Monoson Families
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. A loyal friend and devoted Board member. He will be sorely missed. My condolences to the family. Sadly, Page Morton Black, Chairman Parkinson's Disease Foundation
      