
        BUCHBERG-Abraham S., M.D., age 82, beloved husband of Vera Lacob, resident of Waterside Retirement Estates of Sarasota, FL, formerly of Ardsley, NY, died after a long battle with renal disease on May 25, 2002. Dr. Buchberg was a Pulmonary Specialist at Montefiore Medical Center, New York City for over 50 years serving as a practitioner and teacher. He was Clinical Professor of Medicine at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University in New York where he was a revered teacher of generations of medical students. He was honored in 1998 for five decades of dedicated and caring service to the Pulmonary Service Division of the Montefiore Medical Center and its patients. Despite his long illness, he persevered with courage and fortitude. Dr. Buchberg served as a Captain in the US Army in Japan after WWII. He was a lover of classical music and a long-time devotee of the opera. He enjoyed travel and good books. A devoted husband, father and grandfather, Dr. Buchberg is survived by his wife Vera, his twin sister Irene Siegel of Boca Raton, his son Karl Buchberg of NYC, his daughter Dr. Lisa Buchberg and her husband Dr. Ralph Kaywin of Berkeley, CA and two granddaughters Emma and Nora. A memorial service will be held at Waterside Retirement Estates, 4540 Bee Ridge Rd, Sarasota, FL on Wednesday, May 29 at 1 PM. Donations in his memory to the Sarasota Opera Company, 61 N. Pineapple Avenue, Sarasota, FL. 34236, will be appreciated.
        BUCHBERG-Abraham S., M.D. We are saddened by the death of our cherished brother-in-law Dr. Abraham S. Buchberg. Our close relationship of over 50 years with him and our sister and his family has been a very meaningful part of our lives. He was a cultured man of integrity, compassion and generosity. An excellent physician, he was medical counselor to many family members and friends who depended on his knowledge and caring concern. We share the grief of his beloved wife Vera, his children Karl and Lisa and his sister Irene. We shall remember him always. Hannah and Moses Malkin
      