
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. 86, died suddenly in South Hampton, Saturday, May 18. He was a lifelong resident of New York City, where for more than fifty years, he was a prominent and highly respected real estate owner, builder and developer. He was also a most beloved husband, father, brother and grandfather. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Cynthia Zirinsky, a daughter, Susan Zirinsky of New York City, and a son, Richard W. Zirinsky Jr. of Sag Harbor, NY. His daughter Barbara Faden predeceased him. He also has two grandchildren, Cynthia Deutsch and Zoe Peyronnin, both of New York City. One brother Daniel Zirinsky surives him. His brother Ralph Zirinsky and his sister Betty Zirinsky predeceased him. Richard Zirinsky was born on October 20, 1915, in Brooklyn, NY. He graduated from Syracuse University in 1938 with a degree in business administration. He was a member of the Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity. In WWII he served in the United States Navy, rising to the rank of Lieutenant J.G. and served in the Pacific on the USS Edwards as a communications officer. Following the war he, his brothers and a cousin, the late Lawrence Zirinsky, invested and built numerous industrial real estate properties in Brooklyn and Long Island City. In 1959, Richard and Lawrence teamed up to build Gracie Square Hospital in New York City, one of the largest private psychiatric hospitals in the United States. He later became the sole owner and ran the hospital with his wife until 1992, when New York Hospital acquired it. Richard was also a Trustee of the New York Institute of Technology, Old Westbury, NY, where he played a major role in that school's exspansion and received an honorary doctoral degree. He served on the Board of the Kildonan School for Dyslexic Children and he was on the Board of the Parkinson Disease Foundation at New York's Prestyberian Hospital. Visitation will be Tuesday, May 21, from 7-9 PM, at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 81st St and Madison Ave, in New York City. The funeral service will take place at 11 AM, Wednesday, May 22, at Temple Emanu-El at 5th Avenue and 65th St, NY, NY. The burial will follow at Mount Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY. Donations in his name can be made to The Barbara Zirinsky Fund at Beth Israel Hospital, NY, NY 10003; or the Parkinson Disease Foundation, New York Presbyterian Hospital, NY, NY 10032.
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. Our beloved cousin, true friend, family patriarch and partner of almost 60 years; we salute your life and your good works. We love you, and will miss you always. The Lawrence Zirinsky Family Helen, Nancy, John, Olga, Bill and Ruth
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. My dear father-in-law, thank you for your kindness and warmth, and for sharing your wisdom and strength. My admiration, respect and love, Francesca Rao-Zirinsky
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. Lawrence Zirinsky Associates mourns the passing of our cousin and business associate. Our sincerest condolence to the family.
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and benefactor Richard W. Zirinsky Sr. With his beloved wife Cynthia, he generously supported the hospital's Department of Pain Medicine and Palliative Care through the establishment of the Barbara Zirinsky Fund in memory of his late daughter. To his family and all his loved ones, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew E. Fink, MD, President and CEO Russell K. Portenoy, MD, Chairman, Pain Medicine and Palliative Care
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. We mourn the loss of our close friend and client, Richard Zirinsky. Our heartfelt condolences to his beloved Cynthia and to their children and grandchildren. While his devotion to his many real estate successes and philanthropies are well known, his greatest pride was his family, particularly Cynthia, Susan and her broadcast news career and Richard Jr., his business partner. He will long be remembered. Len Polisar and Herbert Rubin Herzfeld & Rubin, P.C.
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. The Administrators and Trustees of New York Institute of Technology note with sadness the passing of one of our former trustees. His vision and actions helped build the university, and we will be forever grateful. Our heartfelt thoughts are with his family. Edward Guiliano, Ph.D., President
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. The Kildonan School Board of Trustees, faculty, staff, students and alumni mourn the passing of our colleague and longtime Board member, Richard W. Zirinsky, Sr. His dedication and friendship will be deeply missed. We express profound condolences to his wife and family.
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. With sadness and affection, I extend my deepest sympathies to Cynthia, Richard, Susan and the entire Zirinsky family on the loss of this warmhearted, generous and loving man. Richard will be missed by so many. Shira Nadich Levin
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. Our beloved brother, uncle, brother-in-law; we will miss you for the rest of our lives. Brother Daniel, and his Family, Gilda, Steven, Paula, Mark, Laura, David, Robert, and the Schiff and Monoson Families
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. All of us at Greiner-Maltz Company mourn the passing of a long-time and dear friend, and extend our condolences to his entire family. Bill Greiner Dick Maltz
        ZIRINSKY-Richard, Sr. All of us at the Trust for Public Land mourn the loss of Richard Zirinsky, Sr. and extend our deepest sympathies to all the members of his family.
        ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. Thank you for helping me ''grow up'' and teaching me to be a good person. I will miss you dearly. Wendy
        ZIRINSKY-Richard, Sr. Goodbye, dear Richard. We were the last two. I will miss you dearly. Eddie Rand
        ZIRINSKY-Richard. Farewell beloved friend of a lifetime. We will always remember you. Ruth and Ed Kin
      