
        McMAHON-Thomas. National benefits leader. A financial executive who dedicated his life to making the lives of others better, died on Friday in Napa, California. He was 55. Tom (as he preferred to be called) was Senior Vice-President of Finance and Administration for the Pacific Maritime Association, sponsor with the International Longshoremen's and Warehousemen's Union of one of the nation's largest multi-employer retirement & health plans, providing benefits to thousands of working and retired longshoremen and their families. A plan administrator, Tom initiated the first tax-qualified multi-employer 401(k) plan in the nation. As a national financial and benefits leader Tom was serving on the Secretary of Labor's Advisory Council on Pension and Welfare Benefit Plans at the time of his death. He served on the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee of the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington, D.C. Tom was a national leader of Financial Executives International, and the AICPA where he provided special expertise on retirement and health issues, and advocated the extension of economic security programs to all working and retired Americans. A native of Sherman, Texas, Tom was a graduate of the University of Texas at Arlington, where he received his BBA in 1968, became an officer and fighter pilot in the Navy during the Vietnam war, returned to earn his MBA in 1972, and then became a CPA. He served on the UTA Business School Advisory Board and the University of Texas Chancellor's Advisory Committee. He and his wife Jeannette established a Professorship in Ethics at the School in 1998, which served as the catalyst for the UTA McMahonCoburn Ethics Colloquium. The same dedication to helping others caused them to endow a scholarship in the MBA program at the University of Washington in Seattle. He was honored by the University of Texas at Arlington with the Distinguished Alumni Award in 1998. Tom was active in the Big Brother program in Seattle, Washington and maintains a close relationship with his ''little brother,'' Steve Anderson of Menlo Park, California. Tom is survived by his wife Jeannette Coburn. For information about the memorial service go to www.tmcmahon.info. For more info contact the Richard Pierce Funeral Services, 707-226-744.
      