
        OWEN-Kenneth Dale. The son of Lucille Eagle and Richard Owen, was born August 24, 1903 and passed away on April 28, 2002, in the town of his birth. He was the great-great grandson of Robert Owen, the Welsh social reformer and owner of the celebrated textile mills in New Lanark, Scotland. Robert Owen purchased the town of New Harmony in 1825, creating a Utopian community in the hope of bringing educational, and social opportunities to every man, woman and child. Kenneth Owen spent his youth in New Harmony but graduated from Memphis Central High School, where he lettered in varsity basketball and track, breaking the interscholastic high jump record in 1922. He earned a degree from Cornell in 1926, moved to Houston in 1927 and worked as a field geologist in Texas during the 1920's for The Humble Oil Company. Pursuing the innovative and pioneering career of his forebear, David Dale Owen, the First Indiana State Geologist, K D, discovered a highly productive oilfield that became the financial basis for his formation of two successful Houston based companies, Gulfshore Oil Company and Trans-Tex Production Company. Mr. Owen's financial enterprises allowed him to pursue other life time passions. With the help of Wayne Haygood, Indian Mound Farm, in New Harmony became one of the top purebred Hereford cattle breeding operations in the world. His scientific mind and discriminating eye enabled him to become one of the most respected standard-bred breeders in the country, winning the coveted Hambletonian in 1967. In the late 80's when he retired from the Hambletonian Society it was said ''During the 45 years that Ken Owen has been in harness racing, he has not only set new standards as a breeder, but he has also symbolized the brightest form of sportsmanship and integrity our sport has known.'' Mr. Owen took an active interest in restoring properties originally owned by his family in New Harmony. The house, in which he was born, the David Dale Owen Laboratory, was his New Harmony home. He also restored the RappMaclure-Owen Mansion and the Rapp Granary. The Granary was headquarters for pioneer geologic investigations during the Owen community endeavors from 1825-1860. He was one of seven founding members of the New Lanark Association, Ltd. In Scotland, an organization restoring the original Robert Owen industrial properties. Mr. Owen is a member of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists, a Legion of Honor member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, The American Petroleum Institute, The Houston Geological Society, The American Hereford Association-Honor Gallery Award, and The Trotting Horse Hall of Fame Museum. He was an emeritus member of the Cornell University Council, Equine Advisory Council of the New York State College of Veterinary Medicine, and he held an honorary Doctor of Science degree from the University of Southern Indiana. Mr. Owen was appointed Tennessee Ambassador of Goodwill by Governor Sundquist, commissioned a Colonel by the State of Kentucky and awarded Indiana's highest honor as a Sagamore of the Wabash by Governor Frank O'Bannon. He was married to Jane Blaffer of Houston Texas for 61 years. He was the adored father of three daughters: Jane Dale Owen, Anne Dale Owen, and the late Caroline Owen Coleman, and the grandfather of Ingrid Arneberg, Erik Owen Arneberg, James Owen Coleman, Abigail Owen-Pontez, and great-grandfather to Sarah. While Kenneth Dale Owen has been acknowledged for a multitude of distinguished achievements he will be most remembered for being a gentle man to the very end. All who knew him will miss his honesty, his keen eye, his dry wit, his innate since of fairness and his love for all living creatures. The family would like to thank all those whose care and concern allowed Kenneth Owen to live life to its fullest. The funeral will be held in New Harmony, Indiana on Thursday, May 2nd and the date for the Memorial Services in Houston, Texas is pending. Memorials may be sent to the Owen-Maclure Foundation 5120 Woodway, Suite 9007, Houston, Texas 77056.
      