
        LEFF-Joel B. Died on May 7, 2002 in New York, New York. Beloved husband of Jeanne, father of Adam, brother to Richard, and oldest son of Zena Leff. Co-founder and Chairman of ForstmannLeff Assoc. LLC. Joel Leff was not merely a financial wizard, but a master of Art, and dedicated phillanthropist. Family will be receiving friends Tuesday, May 14, 2002, 3-5 & 6-8 PM at Frank E. Campbell 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Memorial Service will be held Wed., May 15, 5 P.M. at The Metropolitan Club, Fifth Ave. at 60 Street. Contributions in his memory may be made to: Sheltering Arms, 122 East 29th Street, NY, NY 10016, or The Southampton Fresh-Air Home, P.O. Box 244, Southampton, New York 11969.
        LEFF-Joel B. The attorneys and staff of Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P. mourn the passing of our client and friend, Joel B. Leff, cofounder and chairman of Forstmann-Leff Associates LLC. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Jeanne Sorensen Leff, his son, Adam B. Leff, his mother, Zena Leff of Palm Beach, Florida, and his brother, Richard Leff, as well as to his colleagues and friends at Forstmann-Leff, in the investment community and in the arts.
        LEFF-Joel. May 7, 2002. We were young together, money managers on a high floor in the General Motors building gazing out at a world we longed to own. I shall miss the jaunty repartee, the incisive cerebration and the impeccable taste in everything. A cross between Mercutio and Tybalt, you are imprinted in my memory so the decades long friendship endures. Martin Sosnoff Atalanta/Sosnoff Capital
        LEFF-Joel. Our thoughts and prayers are with Jeanne, Adam, Richard and Zena on the loss of their dearly beloved Joel. We mourn the loss of our dear friend. He was a unique and remarkable man of great intellect, wit, style and elegance. We will miss him so very much. Catherine and Fred Adler
        LEFF-Joel B. Our hero. No one had greater enthusiasm and courage. You were tremendous in every way! We will miss you always. Our love and condolences to Jeanne, Adam, Dick, and Zena. Jane and David Walentas
      