
        NEWMAN-William H. Lifelong business educator, influential author, and the last surviving founder of the Academy of Management, died May 31, 2002. He was 92. Dr. Newman was the first Samuel Bronfman Professor of Democratic Business Enterprise at Columbia University, the chair endowed during Dwight D. Eisenhower's tenure as president of Columbia. He held the post until his retirement in 1978. He joined Columbia Business School in 1949 and went on to create its management division as well as its executive education program at Arden House. Dr. Newman taught business executives in 17 countries, including Turkey and Nigeria, & was one of the first Western professors to teach in China following the institution of the Open Door Policy in 1979. Dr. Newman co-founded the Academy of Management in 1936. Today the Academy is the premiere society for management scholars, with 12,000 members internationally. In 1999 the Academy created an award in Dr. Newman's name, to recognize outstanding young scholars. Before entering academia, Dr. Newman worked as a management consultant. For several years he was executive assistant to James McKinsey, first at the fledgling McKinsey & Company and later at Marshall Field's. He taught at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School from 1939 to 1949. Dr. Newman authored some ten books, including the first textbooks on basic management practices and strategy. His works have been translated into ten languages. A tireless educator and traveler, he taught senior executives in China until 1995. In April 2002 he lectured at the Darden School at the University of Virginia. During the last ten years he visited Thailand, Siberia and Tibet. At the age of 90 he traveled to the North Pole. A member of the Religious Society of Friends, Dr. Newman was active in the Ridgewood, NJ Meeting. He served on the Board of Directors of Pendle Hill, a Quaker community in Wallingford, PA. He was a leader in the development of a new program which will explore the relevance of Quaker ideas to the social issues confronting the world in the 21st Century. Dr. Newman was married for fifty-seven years to Clare Berry Newman until her death in 1993. He is survived by three sons, Tom, Ken, and Roger, a daughter, Judy, seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      