
        RABINOVE-Samuel. At age 79, of White Plains, NY, on June 9, 2002, after a long illness. Devoted and beloved husband of Anna. Cherished father of Beth, Amy, David and Ellen. Loving grandfather of Brian, Daniel, Justin, Zachary and Benjamin. Father-in-law of Barry and Cathie. Also survived by many lifelong friends and devoted colleagues. National Legal Director of The American Jewish Committee from 1966 to 1997. He dedicated his life to his family and the pursuit of human rights and civil liberties and will be lovingly remembered for his keen intellect, his sharp wit, and his passion for living. Memorial service will be announced at a later date. Contributions in his memory may be sent to the American Jewish Committee, 165 East 56th St., New York, NY 10022.
        RABINOVE - Samuel. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of our longtime colleague and beloved friend Samuel Rabinove. As AJC National Legal Director for more than 30 years until his retirement in 1997, Sam was responsible for our myriad of civil rights and civil liberties activities, including the filing of precedent-setting briefs and other pathbreaking legal actions. He loved America and the American Constitution and worked to preserve the separation of church and state as the best way to insure justice for all. A true freedom fighter, Sam fought tirelessly throughout his brilliant legal career for freedom from anti-Semitism and all forms of religous persecution, ethnic intolerance and bigotry. He defended the underprivileged against discrimination in housing, employment and education. A veteran of WWII, Sam was a gentleman possesed of great wisdom, humor, courage, compassion, humility and dignity, both professionally and personally. His extraordinary contributions to our country, the Jewish people and the quality of all our lives will be his lasting legacy. We send our heartfelt condolences to his wife, children and grandchildren. Harold Tanner, President E. Robert Goodkind, Chair, Board of Governors David A. Harris, Executive Director
      