
        BLASS-Bill. The Trustees and staff of The New York Public Library deeply mourn the passing of one of the most cherished members of the Library family, Bill Blass. A devoted Trustee, a most generous benefactor, a warm and wise friend, and a sage counselor, Bill Blass embraced with enthusiasm and promoted with flair the Library's role of transmitting the world's cultural record to an ever-expanding audience. As was the case in his business, Mr. Blass did everything at the Library with great personal style, with wit, and with charm. He was a leader in every way-creatively, entrepreneurially, and philanthropically-and in 1994 the Trustees named one of the Library's grandest spaces the Bill Blass Public Catalog Room in honor of his many contributions to the Library and its program. Bill Blass was deeply loved by us all, and he will be greatly missed. Mrs. Vincent Astor, Honorary Chairman Samuel C. Butler, Chairman Andrew Heiskell Elizabeth Rohatyn Marshall Rose Chairmen Emeriti Paul LeClerc, President
        BLASS-Bill. The Board of Directors and staff of Lighthouse International mourn the loss of Bill Blass, an icon of American style, and a friend and very generous supporter of our organization. The Lighthouse honored Mr. Blass with its Lifetime Achievement Award at the 2000 Winternight Gala, and his ongoing involvement with us has helped further our mission of helping people of all ages overcome the challenges of vision impairment. He will be greatly missed by us all. William B. Follett, Chairman of the Board Philip B. Miller, Senior Vice Chair Barbara Silverstone, DSW President and CEO Lighthouse International
        BLASS-Bill. The patients and staff of the Center for Special Studies of the New York Presbyterian Hospital mourn the loss of one of our guiding lights. During the earliest days of the epidemic, he committed to help those not only physically devastated but also cruelly stigmatized by HIV disease. One of the ways he expressed that commitment was through his quiet, generous and steadfast support of our program. We will miss his leadership, kindness, wise counsel and above all, wonderful friendship. Jonathan Jacobs, MD, Executive Director Samuel Merrick, MD, Medical Director Jennifer Lytton, Program Director
        BLASS-Bill. New Milford Hospital in Litchfield County, Ct, mourns the passing of Bill Blass. A man of uncommon skill and grace, Bill inspired countless thousands with his warm heart, quick wit, and sense of perspective. New Milford Hospital was fortunate to benefit from his generosity, and offers condolences to his family and friends. Martin S. Begun, Chairman of the Foundation Theodore C. Hollander, Chairman of the Hospital Richard E. Pugh, President & CEO
        BLASS-Bill. The Board of Directors and members of the Council of Fashion Designers of America (CFDA) mourn the loss of the remarkable Bill Blass-a founder of the organization, a leader in the industry, a role model and a friend to so many.
        BLASS-Bill. Dear friend, we will certainly miss you. Rest in peace. With much love, always. Fito
      