
        ALBERT-Herman. CEO and owner of Spectrum Fabrics, Inc., died Sunday, June 16, 2002, at Duke University Medical Center where he and his wife Ruth were benefactors. The Alberts, who live in Purchase, NY, and Palm Beach, Fla., became personally involved at Duke in 1998, when Ruth received treatment that restored her vision. The couple established the Ruth Albert Endowment for Eye Research at the Duke Eye Center. Later that year, convinced of the importance of genomic research to advance human health, they presented a major gift to the Duke Center for Human Genetics. Both Mr. and Mrs. Albert were members of Duke Advisory Boards and in December, 2001, they announced plans to bequeath the bulk of their estate to the Medical Center. Their gift will create the Ruth and Herman Albert Eye Institute for Research at the Duke Eye Center, and the Herman and Ruth Albert Lung Cancer Genomics Fund for research at the Duke Comprehensive Cancer Center. Ralph Snyderman, MD, Chancellor for Health Affairs, and CEO of the Duke University Health System, called Herman Albert ''a truly great man, one of the strongest I've ever known. The legacy that he and Ruth created at Duke will live and benefit the health and lives of generations to come.'' Herman Albert was born on November 23, 1922. At the end of WWII he began his career in an entry-level position with a home furnishing textile manufacturing firm in New York City. With a combination of innovation, hard work, and calculated risk, he rose through the ranks to become CEO and owner of the company. In May, Mr. and Mrs. Albert were honored at a dinner at the home of Duke University President, Nannerl O. Keohane, where they received an official proclamation approving construction of the Albert Eye Institute. Herman Albert is survived by his wife, Ruth, of Purchase and Palm Beach; a daughter, Lena Albert of Santa Fe, NM; a son, Richard Albert, and wife, Janet, of Greensboro, NC; three sisters, Belle Wang of New York, NY; Irene Goldberg of Englishtown, NJ; and Edith Lederman of Massapequa Park, NY. A memorial service was held today.
        ALBERT-Herman. 79. Born November 23, 1922, of Purchase, N.Y. and Palm Beach, Fla. Passed away on June 16, 2002 at Duke University Medical Center. Former owner and CEO of Spectrum Fabrics. Survived by devoted wife Ruth, loving father to Lena Albert, Richard Albert, daughter-in-law Janet Albert and three sisters Belle Wang, Irene Goldberg and Edith Lederman. Benefactor at Duke University Medical Center for Herman and Ruth Albert Thoracic and Oncology Research Center and Herman and Ruth Albert Eye Institute for Research in Eye Disease. Contributor to UJA, Temple Shalom in Greenwich, Ct. and many other Jewish charities. Services will be today, 11:30 at Riverside Memorial Chapels, 21 West Broad St, Mount Vernon, N.Y. Interment at Temple Shalom Cemetery in Greenwich, Ct. Contributions may be made to the Herman and Ruth Albert Thoracic and Oncology Research Center at Duke University Medical Center. ''My darling Hy, you were and are my only love; wait for me. Love you with all my heart, Ruth.''
        ALBERT-Herman. In loving memory of our cherished and beloved father, Herman Albert, who will remain forever in our hearts. We celebrate and give thanks for his presence in our lives, his love, devotion, and wisdom that shaped and guided us. We honor his ability to follow his personal vision and goals. His life-long strength and courage was an inspiration to our family and friends. He enriched our lives, while contributing to the good and betterment of our country. He will always be in our thoughts and prayers. May his soul rest in peace. Richard and Janet Albert Lena Albert
        ALBERT - Herman. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Herman Albert. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Ruth, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary
        ALBERT - Herman. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Herman Albert. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Ruth, and his entire family. James Speiser, President Monty Davis, Secretary
      