
        ROSEN-David. Beloved husband of Sarah, devoted father of Jack and Phillis, Joseph and Marilyn. Dear brother of Rose Blatman. Loving grandfather of Danielle, Jordan, Alison, Brian and Adam. Services Tuesday, 10 AM at Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67 St.
        ROSEN-David. The American Jewish Congress extends deepest condolences to its President, Jack Rosen, and his brother Joseph, a member of our Executive Committee, upon the death of their beloved father, David. A Holocaust survivor, he imbued his sons with a love of their Jewish heritage and a proud legacy of good deeds. Their ongoing contributions to Jewish life will serve as a profound and lasting tribute. We express our sympathies to David's wife, Sara, and the entire family. Neil Goldstein, Exec. Dir. Phil Baum, Exec. Dir. Emer. Belle Faber, Assoc. Exec. Dir. Norman Redlich, Gov. Cncl.
        ROSEN-David. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of David Rosen, Holocaust survivor, who transmitted to his children and grandchildren a love for Torah and the Jewish people. To his wife, Sarah, to his son, Jack (Phyllis) our devoted Vice President and supporter of the Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School, to his son, Joseph (Marilyn), to his grandchildren and the entire family, our deepest sympathy. Services at Park East Synaogue, 163 E. 67 St., Tuesday, June 18th, 11:00 a.m. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        ROSEN-David. The Board and Staff of the greater New York Chapter of The Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America extends its heartfelt sympathy to our esteemed board member, Joeseph Rosen, his wife Marilyn, and their family at the passing of his father, David Rosen. May the family gain solace in knowing that our thoughts and prayers are with them. Nancy Brown, President Judy Saphir, Chairman Joan Telley, Executive Director
        ROSEN-David. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns the loss of David Rosen, beloved father of Trustee Jack Rosen. Our condolences to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier, Pres. Archbishop Khajag Barsamian, V.P. Father Joseph O'Hare, V.P.
        ROSEN-David. Our heartfelt condolences to our good friends Jack and Phyllis, and Joe and Marilyn on the passing of their father, David. Our prayers are with you and your dear family. With love, Joel, Ronny, Sam, and Evan Siegal
      