
        LYNTON-Julian E. On June 23, 2002, at age 85. Beloved husband of Joan L. Lynton. Dear brother of Harold S. Lynton (Hattie). Loving father of Jonathan Lynton and Vicki Sendelle (Rick), Judy Schwartz (Edward), Barbara Sargent (Peter) and William L. Strauss III (Randi). Cherished grandfather of nine. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday 7-9 P.M. with service Thursday 11:30 A.M. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to The Center for Learning and Living at Marymount Manhattan College, 221 E. 71 St, NY, NY 10021, or New York Society for the Deaf, 161 William Street, NY, NY 10038.
        LYNTON-Julian E. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Julian E. Lynton. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        LYNTON-Julian. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Society for the Deaf mourn the passing of Julian Lynton, a treasured colleague & Board member for over twenty years. Julian was dedicated to ensuring that the Society provided quality services to the deaf community and generously offered his guidance and support to that end. His charm, businss acumen, humor and ''heart for the deaf'' will be profoundly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Joan and his family Stephen E. Adler, Chairman Michael J. Waldman, President Pearl I. Johnson, Executive Director
        LYNTON-Julian E. Marymount Manhattan College and the Center for Learning & Living mourn the loss of one of CL&L's founding members, Julian Lynton. He will be greatly missed and remembered for his unflagging dedication, generosity, enthusiasm, energy and commitment to this special program for older adults. Our deepest sympathies to his family.
        LYNTON - Julian E. The members of The Lotus Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and long time friend, Julian E. Lynton, and send condolences to his family.
        LYNTON-Julian. Birthdays will never be the same. Gerry and Dr. Gene Friedman
      