
        SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. The Board of Trustees, staff, docents, and volunteers of the Skirball Cultural Center express our deepest sorrow upon the death of our beloved friend and founding Trustee, Audrey Skirball-Kenis. With astounding verve and imagination, she made a difference in life wherever she ventured-not the least in her passionate pioneering and nourishing of the Skirball Cultural Center. In 1981, Audrey, with her beloved husband, Jack Skirball (1896-1985), provided the initial funding for the development of a new Skirball Cultural Center in Los Angeles, which opened to the public in 1996 and has since servednearly 3 million visitors. In all her philanthrophic endeavors through the Skirball Foundation, she and her husband, Charles Kenis whom she married in 1987 continued and built upon a life-long service to education and culture. Shehelped the Skirball Cultural Center shape itself as a Jewish institution in an American context. She lived the Skirball's mission, which is dedicated to reaching out to people of every ethnic and religious identity around the globe through its cultural programs, museum exhibitions, and communal initiatives. We will miss her and never see her like again. Howard I. Friedman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Uri D. Herscher Founding President & CEO Skirball Cultural Center
        SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion record with profound saddness the death of Audrey Skirball-Kenis, Vice Chair of the Board of Governors and longtime generous benefactor of the College-Institute. A patron of art and culture, Audrey's vision found expression in her lifelong committment to the mission of Hebrew Union College. She recognized that a museum is a singular instrumentality in the life and survival of a people and was the driving force behind the creation of the HUC Skirball Cultural Center. Audrey had a deep appreciation of archaeology, the hand-maiden of history, which served to strengthen her love of the people and land of Israel. Her own devotion to Judaism was mirrored in her commitment to perpetuate its teachings. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her beloved husband, Charles, and family whose loss we share. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, Pres. Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritus Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
        SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. The Skirball Foundation Trustees honor the memory of Audrey Skirball-Kenis, a woman of vision and determination. Her humane values and generosity of spirit have inspired several generations and those yet to be. Martin Blackman, President Skirball Foundation
      