
        WASSERMAN - Lew. The board of directors and staff of the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) mourn the loss of their friend and benefactor, Lew Wasserman. As a prominent executive in the entertainment industry, he effected sound, groundbreaking changes in how the business and the artistic sides of the industry work together. At the same time, he established himself as a preeminent philanthropist and a dedicated promoter of civil rights. We are profoundly grateful for his leadership in all those areas, but most especially we thank him for his unwavering commitment to amfAR and the fight against AIDS. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Edie, one of amfAR's founding directors. The generosity of Edie and Lew Wasserman and many of their friends in the film industry continues to benefit amfAR and its mission. Lew Wasserman personified the humanitarian values he espoused, and today, through our deep sorrow, we reaffirm our commitment to those values and to the work he and Edie supported with such conviction. Mathilde Krim, Ph.D., Founding Chair and Chairman of the Board Jerome J. Radwin, CEO American Foundation for AIDS Research
        WASSERMAN-Lew R. The Trustees, Scientific Advisors and Staff of Research to Prevent Blindness (RPB) mourn the death of Lew R. Wasserman, our Chairman Emeritus, Benefactor and Charter Member of the Board of Trustees since 1960. We extend sympathy to his wife, Edie; their daughter, Lynne Kay, and grandchildren, Carol Leif and Casey Wasserman, who also serves as an RPB Trustee. Mr. Wasserman was a quiet but dominant force in promoting eye research and, with Mrs. Wasserman, contributed generously to RPB. Under his leadership, RPB channeled hundreds of millions of dollars to support research into all blinding diseases at medical institutions throughout the U.S. As a result of that work, millions of people enjoy sight today who would otherwise be blind. On their behalf, we express heartfelt gratitude for Mr. Wasserman's efforts to help preserve and to extend the gift of sight to this and future generations. David F. Weeks RPB Chairman Diane S. Swift, RPB President
        WASSERMAN-Lew. I mourn the loss of a great man who honored me by calling me his friend, even his dear friend. Lew Wasserman was an astute, strong-willed, and brilliant businessman. He was also a sensitive and idealistic individual who wanted to see a more just, more compassionate, healthier American nation. Together with his wife Edie, and also the encouragement of their daughter Lyn, he was an active and generous philanthropist to the very end of his remarkable life. The dignity, integrity, courage-and, yes, humility-that enabled him to live and work consistently in accord with his impeccable personal ethics should forever be models for everyone, not just in the entertainment industry but the corporate world as a whole. Mathilde Krim
      