
        PREISKEL-Barbara Scott. Barbara Scott Preiskel, a magnificent human being who graced our earth, physically passed away on June 4th. Her spirit, her values, her modeling and advocacy of the deep worth of every human being, and the easy good humored way she went about the most serious business of mankind, will never pass. She was a true American heroine who blazed trails for all of us yet never sought praise or recognition for her catalytic contributions to innumerable causes benefiting humanity. From our founding to her passing, she was our inspired and inspiring Vice Chairman for Development. How blessed we all were to have her with us! With every molecule and fiber of her being, she lived a life committed to equality of opportunity for all women and people of color. Our deepest condolences to her beloved, indefatigably devoted life partner, Bob, her equally beloved and devoted sons, John and Richard, her family, innumerable friends, admirers, associates and beneficiaries. We dedicate ourselves and our work to honoring her grand and glorious life. Karen Hastie Williams, Chairman Beatrice A. Fitzpatrick, President The BOLD Initiative
        PREISKEL-Barbara. To lose a close friend of over 50 years is devastating. It is hard to accept that a woman of such strength, fortitude and optimism can now live only in the thoughts of her family, friends and colleagues. Barbara was generous to a fault with her time and energy. She participated in the cultural and political life of the city, serving on a myriad of boards of educational institutions, philanthropic organizations, cultural organizations and ethics panels. Her kindness and grace endeared her to all who knew her. She will be missed. Our hearts go out to Bob, John, Rickey and Malakai. Rita and Leon Silverman
        PREISKEL-Barbara Scott. The Board of The Lois and Samuel Silberman Fund, Inc is saddened by the passing of Barbara Scott Preiskel. Her wise counsel, as Chairman of The Council of Advisors and Board member was a guiding force for more than 15 years. She was also an extraordinary friend. Barbara will be remembered with admiration and gratitude. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband, Bob, and to her two sons Richard and John. Anne P. Sidamon-Eristoff, Chairman Jayne M. Silberman, Vice Chairman Lois V. Silberman, Trustee Emerita
        PREISKEL-Barbara. The law firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson deeply mourns the passing of Barbara Preiskel, whose generosity of spirit and unflagging joy of life were a source of continuing inspiration and pleasure to all who knew her. She was a rare and wonderful person whose presence in our lives will not be replaced. Our sympathy goes to our dear friend and colleague, Bob Preiskel, who was Barbara's partner in every sense and to the other members of her family, whose loss is so enormous.
        PREISKEL-Barbara Scott. The Board and Staff of The New York Community Trust note with great sorrow the death of our former chairman, Barbara Scott Preiskel. Barbara's warmth, enthusiasm, support, intelligence, creativity and love of New York guided our work for almost 20 years. Her wise counsel and good humor will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathies to her husband Bob and her sons Rick and John. Anne P. Sidamon-Eristoff, Chairman Lorie A. Slutsky, President
        PREISKEL-Barbara Scott. The Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture/ The New York Public Library and the Schomburg Center 75th Anniversary Campaign Committee deeply mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague and valued friend. Dr. Johnnetta B. Cole Chair, Campaign Committee Howard Dodson Chief, Schomburg Center
        PREISKEL - Barbara. Be loved wife of esteemed SCAN Board of Director, Bob Preiskel. In one's journey through life one encounters precious few people who will be remembered as truly kind and special souls. Barbara was such a person. Lew Zuchman, Exec Director SCAN New York
      