
        BROWN - J. Carter. The American Academy in Rome mourns the loss of our beloved friend J. Carter Brown. One of the longest serving trustees in our 108-year history and holder of our Centennial Medal, Carter was famous for his appetites for art, history, boats, gadgets and Italian cuisine and an avid participant in the Academy's policies and fellowship programs. He had brilliance, breadth, curiosity, energy, quirkiness, wit. He was a gigantic cultural presence, irreplaceable and terribly missed. Michael I. Sovern, Chairman of the Board David M. Childs, Chairman, Executive Committee Adele Chatfield-Taylor, President Lester K. Little, Director
        BROWN-J. Carter. The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art would like to express its profound sadness upon learning of the death of J. Carter Brown. While a member of the International Council for only a short time, he was a true internationalist whose remarkable vision and leadership were renowned and admired worldwide. On behalf of his International Council and MoMA friends from all over the world, we extend our deepest sympathies to his family and all those he loved. Sir Brian Urquhart, Chairman International Council Museum of Modern Art Jo Carole Lauder, President International Council Museum of Modern Art
        BROWN-J. Carter. Since 1988, Carter Brown shared with the Board of the World Monuments Fund his exceptional experience in the arts and his enthusiasm for the preservation of cultural heritage, not only in our meetings but on trips to Cambodia, Central Europe, France, and Cuba. His quick intelligence, depth of knowledge, and dedication to artistic achievement made him an invaluable colleague who will be deeply missed. We share the sorrow of his loss with his children Jay and Elissa and his fiance Anne Hawley. Marilyn Perry, Chairman Bonnie Burnham, President The Board of Trustees, World Monuments Fund
        BROWN - J. Carter. The Board of Directors and the staff of The Friends of Art and Preservation in Embassies is deeply saddened by his death. Although his title was Director Emeritus of the National Gallery, Carter was always much more than that. With his family's tradition of commitment to philanthropy; an ability to go forward bravely no matter what challenge confronted him; and while he was such an integral part of Washington, Carter was highly respected by scholars and collectors all over the world. We extend our profound sympathy to his family. Jo Carole Lauder, Chairman Ann Gund, President
        BROWN - J. Carter. The Board of Trustees, members, and staff of the Association of Art Museum Directors mourn the death of J. Carter Brown. Mr. Brown was a longtime member and Honorary Trustee of the Association. He was known for his leadership, wisdom, intellect, sense of humor, and devotion to the art museum community. He was the consummate art museum professional. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family and dearest friends. James Cuno, President Maxwell L. Anderson, President Elect Millicent Hall Gaudieri, Executive Director
        BROWN-J. Carter. The Trustees and staff of the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation mourn the loss of their distinguished fellow trustee and colleague J. Carter Brown. He brought his knowledge, wisdom and creativity to our deliberations and inspired us to achieve his high standards. The Doris Duke Charitable Foundation James F. Gill, Chairman Joan E. Spero, President
        BROWN-J. Carter. The Trustees, Faculty, Students and Alumni of the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, mourn the loss of our former Trustee, student and friend.
      