
        SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion record with profound saddness the death of Audrey Skirball-Kenis, Vice Chair of the Board of Governors and longtime generous benefactor of the College-Institute. A patron of art and culture, Audrey's vision found expression in her lifelong committment to the mission of Hebrew Union College. She recognized that a museum is a singular instrumentality in the life and survival of a people and was the driving force behind the creation of the HUC Skirball Cultural Center. Audrey had a deep appreciation of archaeology, the hand-maiden of history, which served to strengthen her love of the people and land of Israel. Her own devotion to Judaism was mirrored in her commitment to perpetuate its teachings. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her beloved husband, Charles, and family whose loss we share. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, Pres. Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritus Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
        SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. The American Jewish Committee is greatly saddened by the death of Audrey SkirballKenis, a cherished member of our National Board of Governors and National Leadership Council and benefactor of AJC and our Los Angeles-based Skirball Institute on American Values. Audrey believed that the most genuinely tolerant and humane society could be found in the blending of the two ideals and cultures that meant the most to her-American democracy and Jewish heritage. She was a woman ahead of her time, possessed of incomparable warmth and wit, gentility and generosity, elegance and energy. She touched so many lives in countless ways and her legacy of goodness and human kindness will long be remembered. We send our heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband Charles, daughters Sally and Aggie, and step-children Stephen and Andrea. Harold Tanner, President E. Robert Goodkind, Chair, Board of Governors David A. Harris, Executive Director
        SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York and its affiliate Skirball Center for Adult Jewish Learning mourn the passing of Audrey Skirball-Kenis, patron and benefactress of Temple EmanuEl's community-wide program of continuing education. Because of the generosity of her heart and the goodness of her spirit, we have this year welcomed hundreds upon hundreds of students into the halls of our Skirball Center. She shared with us our visions and our dreams for a vital Jewish community of learning, and through her, those dreams are becoming realities. To her beloved husband Charles and her entire family, we extend our deepest sympathies. May her memory forever be a blessing. Dr. David M. Posner, Sr Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Sr Rabbi Emeritus Rabbi Leon A. Morris Director, Skirball Center for Adult Jewish Learning Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the death of Audrey Skirball-Kenis whose friendship, goodwill and generosity toward this theater have been boundless. The Foundation's sponsorship of the Audrey SkirballKenis Playwrights Program at Lincoln Center Theater has been a blessing for countless emerging playwrights and directors. She was an extraordinary life force and her presence among us will be sorely missed. We send condolences and love to Charles and all the family. Linda LeRoy Janklow Chairman Andre Bishop Artistic Director Bernard Gersten Executive Producer
      