
        GOODWIN-Henry Sage, 97. Of Avon, Connecticut, died at his home on June 12, 2002. He was born October 14, 1904, in New York City, the second son of Walter L. Goodwin and Elizabeth Sage Goodwin (later Elizabeth Sage Hare). He grew up in Hartford, Connecticut, attending Kingswood School and later Groton School in Massachusetts. He went to Yale University first as an undergraduate and then as a student at the School of Architecture, graduating with an M.F.A. in 1927. A few years later he and his colleague Robert Schutz opened the architectural firm Schutz & Goodwin in Hartford, out of which for the next thirty years, together and separately, they designed many houses, offices, schools and libraries in the Hartford area, most notably the Hartford Public Library, whose innovative design placed it astride a major highway going under Main Street. Goodwin also designed the restoration of the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Connecticut. In 1962, Goodwin retired from the practice of architecture and turned fulltime to his lifelong passion for painting and drawing. Over the next thirty years he produced three illustrated books and hundreds of oil paintings commenting with wit, irony and sometimes romantic nostalgia on various aspects of American life. His paintings have been exhibited in New York, Paris and in the greater Hartford area at such places as the University of Hartford, the Canton Gallery on the Green, the Mattatuck Museum in Waterbury, Connecticut, the Goodspeed Opera House and the New Britain Museum of American Art. Goodwin served in the U.S. Navy in the South Pacific during 1942-45. In Hartford, he served on the Boards of Trustees of the Hartford Conservatory and the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art. He leaves behind two sons, Phillip Manning Goodwin of West Sussex, England, and Rufus Stockton Goodwin of Boston, from his first wife, Anne Stockton (still living). He leaves one daughter, Judith Goodwin Pott, of New York City, from his second wife, Susan Taylor Goodwin (deceased). Also surviving are eight grandchildren, one great-grandchild, two stepdaughters from his second wife, and their families. All of them will miss him deeply and will continue to draw inspiration from his creativity, inner strength, and self-reliance. A Memorial Service will be held at Christ Church Cathedral, corner of Church and Main Streets, Hartford, CT on Friday, June 21, 2002, at 1:30 P.M. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the Canton Gallery on the Green, Canton Green, Canton, CT 06019, or to the Connecticut Hospice Inc., 270 Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT. 06032.
      