
        TREVOR-Anne E. Lacy, 50, wife of John B. Trevor III and a widely-known Adirondack artist and illustrator, died June 9th at home in Lake Placid, NY after a long illness. The daughter of Elizabeth and the late F. Prentice Lacy of Durham, NC, she was born in Dalls, PA. She was a member of the first co-educational class at Kenyon College in Ohio where she graduated cum laude with honors in Studio Art in 1973. After interning with sculptor Nancy Graves in New York and doing additional graduate work at Syracuse University, she joined the Smithsonian's Museum of Natural History in Washington, DC as a scientific illustrator and artist. Her work at the Smithsonian includes a diorama background in the Hall of Western Civilization. She was subsequently employed by the New York State Science Service. She moved to Elizabethtown in 1981 to work for the Adirondack Council as illustrator of the ''Adirondack Wildguide'' by Michael DeNunzio. It was the first of many distinguished books, posters, maps, and other projects for the Council, ''Adirondack Life'' magazine, Niagara Mohawk Power, Central Park Conservancy of New York City, Fort Ticonderoga, the Essex County Adirondack Garden Club and other North Country groups. Additional books illustrated include Philip Kopper's ''The Wild Edge'', Dr. Eugene Ogden's ''Field Guide to Northeastern Ferns'', ''Field Notes From the Northern Forest'' by Curt Stager, and most recently, ''River Study'' by the Essex County Adirondack Garden Club. Her illustrated map of the Adirondacks, commissioned by the Adirondack Council, with its depiction of varied Park environments from boreal and hardwood forests to alpine meadows, bogs, and beaver flows, shows her varied talents. Honors and awards include Educator of the Year from the Adirondack Council in 1998 and the Zone III Horticultural Arts Award in May, 1998. In addition, she was a member of the Essex County Adirondack Garden Club. In addition to her husband and mother, she is survived by her sister Gail Lacy and her brother David. A funeral service will be held at the Keene Valley Congregational Church, Saturday, June 15th at 12:30 p.m. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Adirondack Medical Center, Lake Colby Drive, Saranac Lake, NY 12983, or St. Eustace Church, 44 Main Street, Lake Placid, NY 12946 in memory of Anne E. Lacy Trevor. For information Clark Funeral Home, Lake Placid.
      