
        HARRISON-David A. III. Of Prince George County, Virginia, on June 8, 2002, from complications of Alzheimer's disease at age 85. Born on August 30, 1916, to David A. and Elizabeth D. Harrison. Graduated from the Episcopal High School, Alexandria, VA, and received his undergraduate and law degrees from the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, VA. He was the husband of Mary Anderson Harrison who died in 1990 and the father of two sons, David A. IV of Richmond, VA, George A. of Prince George County, VA, and three daughters, Marjorie H. Webb of Greenwich, CT, Mary T.H. Keevil and Anne L.H. Armstrong, both of Manakin-Sabot, VA, and thirteen grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. A brother also survives him, Richard D. Harrison of Richmond, VA, two sisters Anne H. Brown of Wilmington, DE, and Elizabeth H. Monroe of Bethesda, MD. His brother James G. Harrison died in 1989. He served in the army during the Second World War and attained the rank of captain. He spent his career at White & Case and Reynolds & Company (now Morgan Stanley) in New York City and retired to Flowerdew Hundred Farm in Prince George County, VA, in 1978 to pursue his love of farming, and to devote time to the architectural excavations on Flowerdew, which date back to 1617. He was closely affiliated to the University of Virginia and served as a trustee of the Law School Foundation, and a member of the Alumnae Association Board of Managers. Mr. and Mrs. Harrison endowed three professorships, the David A. Harrison Awards for Undergraduate Research that are given annually, and supported the football program and the rebuilding of the Law Grounds that carry his name. The Mary and David Harrison Institute of American History, Literature and Culture is under construction. A memorial service will be held on June 13 at Flowerdew Hundred Farm, Prince George County, VA, at 11:30 AM. In lieu of flowers contributions in his name can be made to the University of Virginia School of Medicine, Department of Neurology, P.O. Box 800394, Charlottesville, VA 22908-0394.
      