
        SOLNIT-Albert J., M.D. The Officers and Directors of the Psychoanalytic Research and Development Fund record with shock and dismay the sudden death of their close associate, colleague and good friend. Dr. Solnit, recently Commissioner of Mental Health of Connecticut, founder and builder of the Child Development Center at Yale University Medical School, Professor of Psychiatry, Founder and Editor of The Journal The Psychonanalytic Study of the Child, was a remarkable clinician, adminiministrator, teacher, leader, and ardent and effective advocate for the welfare of children all over the world. He served also as Freud Professor of Psychoanalysis at the Hebrew University in Jerusaleum. He worked closely with us on many projects having to do with child psychonanalyis, taught us, promoted our endeavors and inspired us. Like a good leader, he has raised generations of disciples and students who now give expression to his vision in many medical schools and hospitals in this country and abroad. We hope that his wife and children, his many close colleagues and disciples, will soon find comfort with each other and in the fruitfullness of his visions. Mortimer Ostow, M.D. President Peter B. Neubauer M.D. Vice-President Henry Nunberg, M.D. Professional Director
        SOLNIT-Albert J., MD. The members of The New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the untimely passing of their longtime colleague and dear friend. Dr. Solnit's life was spent devoted to adult and child analysis by utilizing his extraordinary teaching, writing and leadership skills, from which many benefited. Dr. Solnit's work at Yale University School of Medicine and his editorship of The Psychoanalytic Study of The Child will be an enduring legacy. The New York Psychoanalytic Institute was honored to have had a long association with Dr. Solnit who first trained at our Institute and was a Corresponding Life Member. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Martha and family. Philip Herschenfeld, MD, Pres./Institute Leon Kupferstein, MD, Pres./Society Edward Nersessian, MD, Chairman, Educational Committee/Inst.
      