
        CRIBBIN-Msgr. Thomas F. 85, Associate Executive Director, Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn, June 13, after a short illness. Son of the late Michael and Catherine Cribbin, he is survived by nieces and nephews, Katherine and Donald Barton, Patrick and Micheline St. John and Mary and Stanley Weglikowski; grandnieces and nephews Donald, David and Laura Barton and Kate Louise Weglikowski; and, devoted extended family Bro. Joseph Moloney, OSF and Sr. Bernadette Downes, CIJ. He was ordained to the priesthood on May 30, 1942. Msgr. Cribbin devoted his life to persons with disabilities after picking up sign language as a youngster from a deaf teammate on a neighborhood baseball team. In 1946, he was assigned to Catholic Charities, establishing the Diocesan Apostolate for the Deaf and Hard of Hearing; subsequently serving as Director of the Office of the Handicapped and Associate Executive Director. In 1948, he founded Operation FUN (from the trunk of his car), the first American Catholic summer camp for deaf children which he later expanded to serve the developmentally disabled. A founding member of the International Catholic Deaf Association; the National Catholic Office for Persons with Disabilities; and, presented at the Vatican on Inclusion and Access. A member of the Knights of Columbus since 1936 and chaplain for Brooklyn and Queens. Vice Chair of the NYS Advisory Council to the Advocate for Disabled Persons; the NYC Community Services Board Department Mental Health/Mental Retardation and Alcoholism Services; President of the Interagency Council of Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities Agencies, Inc.; and, delegate to the United Nations International Year of Disabled Persons. Responsible for opening Garfield Manor, Builders For Family and Youth, an affiliate agency of Catholic Charities first residence for the developmentally disabled and 17 additional residences. Thomas DeStefano, Executive Director of Catholic Charities remembers a beloved friend and mentor ''who dedicated his life to God whom he saw in each person he met. He lived each day in anticipation of being united with God in the hereafter and now he is where he prepared to be all his life. All of us at Catholic Charities will miss the blessing of his presence.'' Msgr. Cribbin's wake took place at Torregrossa Funeral Home this past Saturday and Sunday. Mass of Transferral was celebrated yesterday at St. James Cathedral. Bishop Thomas Daily will celebrate a funeral Mass, Monday, June 17th, St. James Cathedral, 10:00 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Catholic Charities Disability Services 718-722-6215.
      