
        SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. The New York University Community mourns the passing of Audrey Skirball-Kenis. Mrs. Skirball-Kenis was a warm, generous, witty and charming women whose philanthropy helped immeasurably in so many causes and was indispensable in the growth of NYU. Her extraordinary generosity helped promote excellence in many areas of NYU scholarship, including the Skirball Department of Hebrew and Judaic Studies, The Skirball Professorship for Bible and Ancient Near Eastern Studies, The Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, The Skirball Directorship of the Bronsman Center for Jewish Student Life, The Jack H. Skirball Center for New Media and Film, The Jack H. Skirball Film Equipment Center and the Skirball Center for the Performing Arts. Her absence will be keenly felt. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Charles, and to her entire family.
        SKIRBALL - KENIS - Audrey. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion record with profound saddness the death of Audrey Skirball-Kenis, Vice Chair of the Board of Governors and longtime generous benefactor of the College-Institute. A patron of art and culture, Audrey's vision found expression in her lifelong committment to the mission of Hebrew Union College. She recognized that a museum is a singular instrumentality in the life and survival of a people and was the driving force behind the creation of the HUC Skirball Cultural Center. Audrey had a deep appreciation of archaeology, the hand-maiden of history, which served to strengthen her love of the people and land of Israel. Her own devotion to Judaism was mirrored in her commitment to perpetuate its teachings. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her beloved husband, Charles, and family whose loss we share. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, Pres. Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritus Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
      