
        RABB-Maxwell M. June 9, 2002 at age 91. Beloved husband of Ruth; father of Bruce, Sheila Weidenfeld, Emily Livingston and Priscilla Ayres; grandfather of Jeremy Maltby, Alexander and Katy Rabb, and Nicholas and Daniel Weidenfeld; and brother of Warren Rabb, and the late George Rabb and Frances Jones. Family will be receiving Tuesday evening 7-9pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Services Wednesday, June 12th, 11am at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Av at 65 St. Interment private. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to Lighthouse International, 111 E. 59 St., NY, NY 10022.
        RABB-Maxwell M., Ambassador. It is with profound sorrow that the Rabbis, Officers and Trustees of Congregation Emanu-El of The City of New York record the passing of Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb. During his long and distinguished career of public service, Ambassador Rabb served our nation and the free world with a loyalty and skill that were often without peer. He inspired confidence, both here and abroad, and because of him the interests of our government and the well-being of our people were strengthened and enhanced. His heart and soul constantly mirrored the qualities of generosity and wisdom. He was a man of peace who sought to reconcile differences among people. We at Temple Emanu-El will forever cherish his long years of service as a Trustee and his wonderful tenure as President of the Congregation. With his beloved Ruth, who was forever the soulmate of his life, and his children and grandchildren, we mourn his passing but, above all, give thanks to God for the life that he lived and the legacy he bequeaths. Surely, the memory of Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb will endure as a blessing in the annals of our government and in the hearts of all whose lives he touched. Dr. David M. Posner Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel Senior Rabbi Emeritus Robert A. Bernhard President Herbert C. Bernard Secretary
        RABB-Ambassador Maxwell M. The partners and staff of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP acknowledge with great sorrow the passing of our colleague, Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb, an esteemed lawyer, statesman and gentlemen. For the past 12 years our lives were enhanced by the Ambassador's generosity of spirit and his commitment to our country and our firm. All of us were enriched as individuals by time spent with Ambassador Rabb. We wish to extend our heartfelt sympathies to his devoted wife Ruth, his son Bruce Rabb, our partner and the rest of his children and grandchildren.
        RABB-Ambassador Maxwell M. It is with great sadness that the Inner-City Scholarship Fund family notes the passing of a member of our Board of Trustees and a former Ambassador to Italy. Our hearts go out to Ruth Rabb and family in this time of loss. His commitment to our children will not be forgotten. Inner-City Scholarship Fund
      