
        SOLNIT-Albert J., M.D. The Officers and Directors of the Psychoanalytic Research and Development Fund record with shock and dismay the sudden death of their close associate, colleague and good friend. Dr. Solnit, recently Commissioner of Mental Health of Connecticut, founder and builder of the Child Development Center at Yale University Medical School, Professor of Psychiatry, Founder and Editor of The Journal The Psychonanalytic Study of the Child, was a remarkable clinician, adminiministrator, teacher, leader, and ardent and effective advocate for the welfare of children all over the world. He served also as Freud Professor of Psychoanalysis at the Hebrew University in Jerusaleum. He worked closely with us on many projects having to do with child psychonanalyis, taught us, promoted our endeavors and inspired us. Like a good leader, he has raised generations of disciples and students who now give expression to his vision in many medical schools and hospitals in this country and abroad. We hope that his wife and children, his many close colleagues and disciples, will soon find comfort with each other and in the fruitfullness of his visions. Mortimer Ostow, M.D. President Peter B. Neubauer M.D. Vice-President Henry Nunberg, M.D. Professional Director
        SOLNIT-Albert J. The members of the editorial board of ''The Psychoanalytic Study of the Child'' mourn the passing of the Editor in Chief, Professor Albert J. Solnit. Over many decades, he has been the spiritual guide for this publication to promote the study of the psychoanalytic method to advance our knowledge of child development and childhood disorders. Professor Solnit has contributed many guiding papers. What is ''in the best interest of the child'' became his pivotal concern. He dedicated his life's work toward reaching this goal. With sympathy for his family, Peter B. Neubauer, M.D. Samuel Abrams, M.D. A. Scott Dowling, M.D.
        SOLNIT-Albert J. Professor Solnit guided the Anna Freud Foundation as president of its Board with a deep understanding of Anna Freud's work. He had significantly collaborated with her. He supported those advances of child analysis which continutes to pursue the legacy of Anna Freud's work. With deep affection for Martha and the children, we share their loss. Peter B. Neubauer, M.D. Alice B. Colonna
      