
        RABB-Maxwell M. June 9, 2002, at age 91. Beloved husband of Ruth; father of Bruce, Sheila Weidenfeld, Emily Livingston and Priscilla Ayres; grandfather of Jeremy Maltby, Alexander and Katy Rabb, and Nicholas and Daniel Weidenfeld; and brother of Warren Rabb, and the late George Rabb and Frances Jones. Services Wednesday, June 12, 11 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. at 65th St. Interment private. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to Lighthouse International, 111 East 59th St., NY, NY 10022.
        RABB - Maxwell M. The Board of Directors and staff of Lighthouse International mourn the loss of Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb, an esteemed member of our Board of Directors from 1995-2001. He was elected an Honorary Director earlier this year. A longtime supporter of our organization, Mr. Rabb used his vast experience in governmental and public service, as well as the law, to further our mission of helping people of all ages overcome the challenges of vision impairment. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Ruth, and his entire family. William B. Follett, Chairman of the Board Barbara Silverstone, DSW President and CEO Lighthouse International
        RABB-Amb. Maxwell M. The American Friends, its Officers and its Board, acknowledge with profound sorrow the passing of our Honorary Chairman, Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb. Ambassador Rabb, a Board member for several decades, has provided a constant guiding hand, a devotion to our organization and unwavering belief in the good of our cause. We will miss the Ambassador, his wisdom, humor and gentleness. We wish to extend our profound sympathies to Mrs. Rabb and the entire family. Albert Sibony, President Norman S. Benzaquen, Chairman Henriette Beilis, Hon. Pres. American Friends of the Alliance Israelite Universelle
        RABB-Amb. Maxwell M. The officers, trustees and members of the National Committee on American Foreign Policy mourn the death of our beloved colleague, Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb, a long-standing trustee of the NCAFP, and extend heartfelt condolences to Ruth and their family. Ambassador Rabb was an exemplar of the art and practice of statesmanship at its best. He contributed greatly to the mission and work of the NCAFP, and we will greatly miss his wit and wisdom. William J. Flynn, Chairman George D. Schwab, President
        RABB-Maxwell. The Board and staff of the Seamen's Church Institute of New York & New Jersey, together with George D. Benjamin, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, and the Rev. Canon Peter Larom, Executive Director, express their deepest sorrow at the passing of the Hon. Maxwell Rabb. Since 1979, Ambassador Rabb served on the Institute's Board of Trustees with distinction and was devoted to SCI's ministry to mariners. We send our condolences to his family.
        RABB-Maxwell. The LeFrak family deeply mourns the loss of one of our oldest and dearest friends, a great and distinguished diplomat and wise statesman; a gentle, considerate and kind man; a role model and courageous counselor whose passing will be missed by all fortunate enough to have known this generous and elegant man. Samuel J. LeFrak, Chairman of the Lefrak Organization.
        RABB-Ambassador Maxwell M. The officers, directors and staff of Sterling Bancorp and Sterling National Bank express their deep regret and condolences to his wife, Ruth, and the family on the passing of their dear friend and longtime director. His exceptional character, charm, wit and compassion were legend. His contributions to the Sterling Companies were manifold and will be remembered.
        RABB-Maxwell. The Officers and Board of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with deep sorrow the passing of our longtime friend and supporter, Maxwell Rabb. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife Ruth and to his entire family. Leo Hausman, Chairman UCP of NYC, Inc.
        RABB-Amb. Maxwell M. The world will be less joyful without Max. Deep sympathy to Ruth, Bruce, and the family. Jane Susskind-Narins
      