
        SCHEMPF-Dr. William Heaton, Colonel, USAR, (retired), of Cornwall, New York, the thirteenth Teacher of Music, Commander and Conductor Emeritus of the USMA Band at West Point, passed away on Saturday, June 8 in Peekskill. He was 84. He was born in Milwaukee and earned a BM in clarinet from the University of Wisconsin in 1939. From 1939-42, he was a graduate assistant and earned his MM in music theory at the Eastman School of Music. During the summer of 1940, he studied under Koussevitzky at Tanglewood. In 1942-1945, he attended NYU for meteorological training before spending two and onehalf years as a meteorology forecaster in the 8th Army Air Force. After the war, he resumed his studies at the Eastman School. In 1947, he was named Chairman of the Music Department at Lehigh University. During this time, he was selected for conducting workshops with Szell and Ormandy and in 1952, won a Fulbright Scholarship for a year's study in Vienna, Austria. In 1957, he was appointed Teacher of Music at West Point-a position created in 1817 by USMA's founder, Sylvanus Thayer. During his tenure at West Point, 1957-74, the Band was noted for the excellence and vibrancy of their musical programs. The Band frequently appeared at many regional and national events, and they were often joined by distinguished soloists and performers. He was also the conductor of the Cadet Glee Club from 1958-70. In 1960, he completed his PhD in musicology from the Eastman School. He also composed and during his early years at West Point played viola in an amateur string quartet comprised of members of the USMA faculty. In addition to his music interests, he was an Eagle Scout and remained fond of camping, alpine skiing, and sailing. He also built a harpsichord and furniture and was an amateur photographer. He retired from the army in 1974 and became the Chairman of the Music Department at Central Michigan University. Upon his retirement in 1981, he returned to NY & conducted occasionally; he participated annually in the USMA Band's reunion concert held each June. He received the following awards for military service: Air Medal with First Oak Leaf Cluster; American Campaign Medal; EuropeanAfrican-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal; World War II Victory Medal; National Defense Service Medal; Armed Forces Reserve Medal, and the Legion of Merit. He is survived by his wife, Marjorie, two sons, Bryan H. Schempf and Kevin W. Schempf, his daughter Ruthanne, and six grandchildren.
      