
        GOTTLIEB-Paul. Paul Gottlieb began his involvement at The Museum of Modern Art more than 30 years ago, initially as an advisor to its publishing activities. He became an integral part of the MoMA family when in 1975 he joined the Museum's Board of Trustees where he served actively until now. For many years, he was Chairman of both the Trustee Committees on Publications and Membership, and a longtime member of the Finance Committee. In recent years, he was an active member of the Museum's Committee on Archives, Library and Research and its Marketing and Membership Committee. Paul had an especially close relationship with his fellow trustees and the staff of the Museum who will miss his stimulating presence and the pleasure of his good company. We send our most heartfelt sympathy to his wife Elisabeth Scharlatt, his mother Liza, his sister Gail, and his children Andrew and Nicholas and their families, and his stepson Nicholas Scharlatt. David Rockefeller Chairman Emeritus Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Agnes Gund, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Board of Trustees The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        GOTTLIEB - Paul. The Trustees and staff of the Aperture Foundation mourn the passing of Paul Gottlieb. Mr. Gottlieb was appointed Executive Director of Aperture on April 26, 2002 and was officially scheduled to begin working at the Foundation on August 1, 2002. Over the past month, Mr. Gottlieb quickly became involved with plans for Aperture's 50th Anniversary and future programs, introducing innovative ideas and infusing Aperture with renewed energy and enthusiasm. We regret that we will not experience the leadership, passion and vision that he would have brought to the Foundation. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Mr. Gottlieb's wife, Elisabeth Scharlatt, children and to his entire family.
        GOTTLIEB-Paul. The staff of Harry N. Abrams, Inc., deeply mourns the loss of Paul Gottlieb, the leading figure in artbook publishing in the last quarter century. A beloved colleague & wonderful friend, Paul was an inspiration to us all and his legacy will always be cherished. His unflagging optimism and enormous intelligence, energy, & joie de vivre will be sorely missed by all who knew this extraordinary man. We send our love & sympathy to his wife, Elisabeth Scharlatt; his mother, Liza; his sister, Gail; his sons, Nicholas and Andrew, and their families, and his stepson, Nicholas Scharlatt. Steve Parr, President & CEO Eric Himmel, Editor-in-Chief The Staff of Harry N. Abrams, Inc.
        GOTTLIEB-Paul. The Union Square Cafe family mourns the loss of our dear friend, Paul Gottlieb. We shall miss his robust appetite for life, the mischievous twinkle in his eye, the sage advice he always offered, his fierce loyalty to our restaurants, and the fascinating guests he introduced to us over 17 years. We send our love to Elisabeth and to his extended families everywhere. Danny Meyer Paul Bolles-Beaven Michael Romano & the staff of Union Square Cafe
        GOTTLIEB-Paul. The Goddard Riverside Board of Directors mourn the loss of one of our Book Fair Publishing Committee's most generous, enthusiastic and inspiring members. Planning meetings will never be the same, but his memory will help us carry on our important mission. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Mary Ellen Rudolph, Pres., Board of Directors Stephan Russo, Exec. Dir.
        GOTTLIEB-Paul. His sudden death cut short an enormously productive and creative life. He was a wonderful person and a great friend. The loss of this amazing man will diminish the lives of all who knew and loved him. David Finn, Chairman Ruder Finn, Inc.
        GOTTLIEB-Paul. The Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization has lost a friend. We will miss his jovial outlook on life and we will miss working with him, which was always a pleasure. Our thoughts are with Elisabeth and the family.
        GOTTLIEB-Paul. Our sorrow for a dear friend and a wonderful, kind human being. Gloria and Sam Nissenson
        GOTTLIEB-Paul. A great soul, a great publisher. We will all miss you. Hacker-Strand Art Books
      