
        UNTERMEYER-Sophie G. 92, of New York City, passed away Saturday, June 15, after a long illness. Aunt of Charles S. and Randolph Guggenheimer Jr., and sister-in-law of Elinor C. Guggenheimer. Daughter of the late Charles and Minnie Guggenheimer, sister of the late Randolph Guggenheimer. She excelled in many sports, mainly golf, in which she won numerous tournaments including the prestigious Women's MGA Championship. She ran the Lewisohn Stadium Concerts following the death of her mother, the legendary ''Minnie,'' and was an honorary member of the Board of Directors of the New York Philharmonic. Contributions in her memory may be made to the New York Philharmonic, Avery Fisher Hall, 10 Lincoln Center Plaza, New York, NY 10023.
        UNTERMEYER-Sophie. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc. deeply mourns the passing, on June 15, 2002, of Sophie Untermeyer, whose devotion to, and tireless efforts on behalf of the New York Philharmonic played a major role in its fundraising activities over many years. Mrs. Untermeyer was elected to the Philharmonic's Board in 1970 and was made an Honorary Director of the Society in 1997. Her most important contributions included founding the ''Friends of the Philharmonic,'' which she directed, in addition to holding the position of Fundraising Manager from 1953 to 1978. She was also Vice Chairman of Stadium Concerts and a former member of the Advisory Board of the Heritage Society. Mrs. Untermeyer was the daughter of the late Mrs. Charles S. (Minnie) Guggenheimer, a member of the Philharmonic's Board from 1934 to 1966 and founder of a highlight of the City's cultural scene - the Philharmonic's summer concerts at Lewisohn Stadium, which were offered annually from 1918 to 1966. Mrs. Untermeyer took over the administration of the Stadium Concerts following her mother's death. Countless donors and subscribers, throughout the many years of her involvement with the Orchestra, will remember ''Sophie'' for the unfailing personal attention she provided, always with warmth and good cheer. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her nephews, Charles S. and Randolph Guggenheimer, Jr. and her sisterin-law, Elinor C. Guggenheimer. Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Zarin Mehta, Exec. Director
      