
        FENTON-Thomas L. Marketing entrepreneur dies at 61. A co-founder of Synchronal Inc., one of the earliest major successes in the infomercial industry, died at his home in Easton, Connecticut on Saturday, June 22, 2002 after a long struggle with cancer. Mr. Fenton began his career in advertising photography in New York City. He served two years as officer in charge of the Signal Corps photo unit at the U.S. Army Arctic Test Grounds at Fort Greeley, Alaska. Following his tour of duty, Mr. Fenton returned to Manhattan and actively pursued a career as a television producer at several advertising agencies and became Executive Vice President and Director of Broadcast Production at Doyle Dane Bernbach. Becoming a major force in the infomercial industry, Mr. Fenton was a founding member of NIMA, the national infomercial trade association which is presently titled Electronic Retailing Association (ERA). After selling his interest in Synchronal in 1992, he became a marketing consultant and independent entrepreneur. Mr. Fenton was born in Chicago, Illinois to Ruth and Thomas L. Fenton, who are both deceased. While attending public schools he excelled in academics and became a National Merit Scholarship winner. He began his undergraduate studies at the University of Chicago, particularly enjoying playing baseball. His education was completed at the Art Center School of Design in Los Angeles where he received a BFA in photography. He is survived by his loving wife Dana, his son Thomas Fenton and daughter Juliana Fenton of Easton, CT., his son Stephen Dirhold and grandson, Landon Dirhold of Marion, NC. He is also survived by his brother Timothy Fenton and sister-inlaw Elizabeth Fenton of Norwalk, CT and brother Robert Fenton of Kansas City, MO, and his loving nieces Laura and Anne Fenton of Norwalk, CT. A private service for the immediate family was held on Tuesday, June 25, 2002. A memorial service will be held at the Jesse Lee United Methodist Church in Easton, CT. at 4:00 P.M. on Saturday, July 13, 2002. In lieu of flowers the family requests that donations be made in the name of Thomas L. Fenton to the Jesse Lee United Methodist Church, 25 Flat Rock Road, Easton, CT. 06612.
      