
        PREISKEL-Barbara Scott. Died June 4, 2002. Beloved wife of Robert. Mother of Richard and John, grandmother of Malakai. Private funeral services. Memorial service will be announced.
        PREISKEL-Barbara Scott. The Philharmonic-Symphony Society of New York, Inc. deeply mourns the passing, on June 4th of Barbara Scott Preiskel, a lawyer, and corporate board director and a member of The New York Philharmonic's Board of Directors since 1971. Mrs Preiskel was also a member of the Orchestra's Heritage Society, a generous donor to the Annual Fund, and an active committee member, who helped to secure many corporate contributions for the Orchestra. In recognition of her devotion and generosity to the Philharmonic, she was elected an Honorary Director in 1994. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Robert, her sons, John and Richard, and to her entire family. Kurt Masur, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Zarin Mehta, Exec Director
        PREISKEL-Barbara Scott. The Board and Staff of The New York Community Trust note with great sorrow the death of our former chairman, Barbara Scott Preiskel. Barbara's warmth, enthusiasm, support, intelligence, creativity and love of New York guided our work for almost 20 years. Her wise counsel and good humor will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathies to her husband Bob and her sons Rick and John. Anne P. Sidamon-Eristoff, Chairman Lorie A. Slutsky, President
        PREISKEL - Barbara. Be loved wife of our esteemed Board member and long-time supporter, Bob Preiskel. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Bob and his family. Jane Overman, Chairperson Mickey Sirowitz, President SCAN New York
        PREISKEL - Barbara. For those of us who were privileged to be her friends, losing her is heartbreaking. Barbara loved life with a passion and she lived it to the hilt. She loved her family, her friends, her distinguished career, her travels, her home in the country. The good life. She loved to laugh, to listen to great music, to go to theater, to play golf (her number 3 wood), to watch basketball and football, to enjoy fine wines and good restaurants. She loved living as adventure. And we who shared precious times with her are bereft. Her values and standards are her legacy and we are proud to say ''Barbara was our friend.'' Susan and David Kraus Betty and Bill Ruder Jackie and Jay Topkis
      