
        MAHONEY-Most Reverend James P., D.D., retired Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of NY, died June 1, 2002, at Calvary Hospital. He was born in Kingston, NY, on August 16, 1925, to James A. and Ella (Daly) Mahoney. He graduated from Blessed Sacrament Parochial School and following graduation from Cathedral Preparatory School in 1947, he entered St. Joseph's Seminary, Yonkers, to begin his theological studies. He was ordained by Francis Cardinal Spellman on May 19, 1951, at the Cathedral of St. Patrick. His first assignment was at St. Mary's Church, Katonah, where he also taught at St. Mary's High School. He served as a Chaplain in the US Army from 1954-58 and remained a Captain in the Army Reserve for eight years after active duty. From 1958 to 1964 he taught English at Cardinal Hayes High School, Bronx, and parttime at Mt. St. Ursula's Academy and St. Catherine's Academy. In 1964 he was named Procurator at St. Joseph's Seminary in Dunwoodie and was elevated to the rank of Papal Chamberlain by Pope Paul VI. In 1968 he was appointed Vice Chancellor of the Archdiocese and Chairman of the Priests' Personnel Board. In 1971 Terence Cardinal Cooke named him Vicar General of the Archdiocese. On September 15, 1972, Pope Paul VI elevated him to the office of bishop as Auxiliary Bishop to Terence Cardinal Cooke and he took the motto ''To be rich in faith'' (James 2:5). In September, 1974, Bishop Mahoney was named Pastor of St. John the Evangelist Church, Manhattan. He also served as chaplain to the NYPD Anchor Club. In 1978 he was appointed pastor of St. John the Evangelist Church in Mahopac and Vicar of Northern Westchester and Putnam. After 12 years in Mahopac he then served as pastor of Holy Trinity Church, Poughkeepsie, and Vicar of Dutchess County. He then resided at St. Mary's Church, Wappingers Falls, St. Peter's Church, Poughkeepsie, and Assumption Church, Peekskill. Following retirement he resided at the residence for retired priests at Stepinac High School, White Plains. Bishop Mahoney will repose at St. John the Evangelist Church, Mahopac, today (Tuesday) from 1-7:30 PM, when a Mass of the Eucharist will be celebrated. Mass of the Resurrection will be celebrated by Edward Cardinal Egan at 10 AM, Wednesday, at the Cathedral of St. Patrick. Interment will follow at Assumption Cemetery, Peekskill, NY.
      