
        SWEENY-John Paul. 73, of Huntington Beach, CA, found eternal peace on May 30. Born and raised in New York City, Dr. Sweeny received his secondary schooling at De La Salle Institute, pre-med at Manhattan College, and graduated from New York University Medical School in 1956. Military service included: Occupation of Japan at the end of World War II with the 11th Airborne; Army Medical Corps during the Korean War; and as a U.S. Navy (MC) surgeon from 1956 until 1966. He resigned as Commander U.S. Navy (MC). He served his internship at Great Lakes Naval Hospital, his surgical residency at NYU School of Medicine, Bellevue Hospital; and as a surgeon at U.S. Naval Hospital, Portsmouth, NH; and at U.S. Naval Hospital, USS Haven, Long Beach, CA. He also seved as a trauma surgeon with the U.S. Marine Corps on an attack transport as part of the blockade of Cuba during the Missile Crisis, and with the Third Marine Division as a field surgeon in Vietnam, where he was awarded the Navy Commendation Medal with V for valor. Dr. Sweeny was a FellowAmerican College of Surgeons; Diplomate, American Board of Surgery; and member, American Board of Surgery of Trauma. He was Assistant Clinical Professor of Surgery at UCLA, Harbor General Hospital, Long Beach, CA, and Associate Clinical Professor of Surgery at UC Irvine, Irvine, CA. He was licensed to practice medicine in New York, California and Nevada. He was in solo practice in general, vascular and trauma surgery in Long Beach, CA, and on staff at Long Beach Memorial Medical Center and served as Chairman, Department of Surgery; Medical Director, Department of Surgery; and at Long Beach General County Hospital, where he was Medical Director, Department of Surgery. Doctor Sweeny is survived by his wife Donna M. (nee Stojakovic); 10 children: Dr. Patricia Rywak, Nora Brizgys, John P. Seeny, Joan Chimento, Helen Beardsworth, Dr. Francis M. Sweeny, Matthew Sweeny, Sarah Sweeny, Jessica Sweeny, and Christopher Sweeny; and 20 grandchildren. He was predeceased by his first wife Patricia (nee Jenkins) and a daughter, Elizabeth. He was the eldest of the 14 children of John P. and Helen (nee Hays) Sweeny. He is survived by seven sisters: Joan Sweeny, Helen Sweeny, Brigid Hankin, Mary Healy, Rita Kenny, Nora L'Eplattnier and Deborah Hirsch; and four brothers: Michael Sweeny, Denis Sweeny, Paul Sweeny, and Timothy Sweeny. He was predeceased by two sisters, Patricia Malach and Priscilla Sweeny. A wake service was held on June 4 at Brothers Funeral Directors, Huntington Beach, and a Mass of the Resurrection was celebrated at St. Bonaventure R.C. Church, Huntington Beach, on June 5. Visiting will be at Campbell - Dean Funeral Home, 260 Main St., Oneida, NY, on Tuesday, June 11, from 4 to 8 PM. A Mass celebrating his life will be offered at 10 AM, Wednesday, June 12, at St. Patrick's R.C. Church. Burial will follow in St. Patrick's Cemetery.
      