
        RABB-Ambassador Maxwell M. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb. A former member of the Board of Governors, and an honorary alumnus of the College-Institute, Ambassador Rabb was a distinguished advisor to presidents and international delegations and councils, and a dedicated servant of the Jewish people. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Ruth, and to his entire family. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, Pres. Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritus Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
        RABB-Maxwell M. The officers, directors, employees and shareholders of Data Systems & Software Inc. and subsidiaries deeply mourn the loss of their long-time colleague and dear friend. Ambassador Rabb, a member of our Board for almost ten years, always actively participated in the Board's work and we benefited greatly from the Ambassador's wisdom and experience. The Ambassador often expressed particular pride in his participation in building Israel's high-tech economy through the activities of our Israeli subsidiaries. His kindness and charm will be deeply missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Ruth, his children and grandchildren. George Morgenstern Chairman of the Board and CEO Data Systems & Software Inc.
        RABB - Maxwell. The trustees, faculty and administration of New York Medical College are saddened by the passing of our friend and colleague, Maxwell Rabb. A former member of our Board of Trustees, Max brought to every encounter the wisdom, elegance and dedication to humanity that infused his life of public service. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Ruth and to his family. Ronald F. Poe, Chairman Board of Trustees Rev. Msgr. Harry C. Barrett President and CEO Ralph A. O'Connell, M.D. Provost and Dean School of Medicine
        RABB-Ambassador Maxwell M. The partners of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP record with deep sorrow the passing of our former colleague, the Honorable Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb, an exceptional attorney and statesman and our friend of many years. We wish to extend our deepest sympathies to Ambassador Rabb's wife of 62 years, Ruth, his daughters, Sheila, Emily, and Priscilla, and his son, Bruce, also a former partner at Stroock.
        RABB-Maxwell Milton, June 9, 2002 at age 91. The Pilgrims of the U.S. mourn the loss of their fellow Pilgrim and former U.S. Ambassador to Italy. Always a supporter, a problem solver, a diplomat and a charmer, he was a dear friend. Henry Luce III President Eben W. Pyne Treasurer L. Charles Windsor Secretary
      