
        DEWEY-Gordon Chipman. Age 79, died peacefully on May 30, 2002 at his home in New York City. Mr. Dewey was born in New York on April 9, 1923, to the late Fredrick A. and Elisabeth (Braley) Dewey and is the grandson of John Dewey, the American philosopher and educator. Mr. Dewey studied nuclear physics at Harvard during WW II, earning a bachelors and masters degree. During the war years, he worked at the Radiation Laboratory at MIT on early radar technologies and was also involved in the Manhattan Project. He was later recruited to work at the Pentagon for the Joint Chiefs of Staff with the Weapon Systems Evaluation Group, focusing on the nuclear retaliatory mission. In the 1950's consulted to the Pentagon, the White House, and companies such as the Rand Corporation. Mr. Dewey was appointed to the Air Traffic Control Board by the President of the United States in 1957. He founded the Dewey Electronics Corporation in 1955 where he continued his work with the defense industry and also began developing snowmaking technology. The company went public in 1960 and Mr. Dewey continued as the President and CEO until his death. Mr. Dewey's extensive philanthropic efforts centered on education. He had served as the chairman of the Navy League's scholarship committee and was the current and longtime President of the Board at the New York Institute for Special Education, which began as an institute for the blind and was then expanded to meet the needs of children with other disabilities. He was an avid sailor and spent his summers in Nantucket. Mr. Dewey had the distinction of being one of the longestrunning members of the New York Yacht Club. His warm and wise presence will be missed. Mr. Dewey is survived by his wife of 48 years, Frances Dear; his children, Fredrick R., Dede W., John H. D. (Sara); and his sister Joanna. A memorial service is scheduled for Wednesday, June 5, at 3 PM, at the Heavenly Rest Church. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the New York Institute for Special Education, 999 Pelham Parkway, Bronx, NY 10469.
      