
        DEWEY-Gordon Chipman. 79, died peacefully May 30, 2002, at his home in New York City. Mr. Dewey was born in New York on April 9, 1923, to the late Frederick A. and Elisabeth (Braley) Dewey and is the grandson of John Dewey, the American philosopher and educator. Mr. Dewey studied nuclear physics at Harvard during WW II. During the war years, he worked at the Radiation Laboratory at MIT on early radar technology, as well as on The Manhattan Project. He was later recruited to be at the Pentagon for the Joint Chiefs of Staff with the Weapon Systems Evaluation Group, analyzing the nuclear retaliatory mission. In the 1950's he was a consultant to the Department of Defense, the White House (as a presidential appointee to the Air Traffic Control Board) and companies such as the Rand Corporation. In 1955, he founded The Dewey Electronics Corporation, taking it public in 1960. Today the company is active in the snowmaking and defense industries. He was President and CEO until his death. Mr. Dewey's extensive philanthropic efforts centered on education. He was past chairman of the Navy League Scholarship Committee. For 27 years he led The New York Institute for Special Education through a period of major building and transformation as the president of its board. The Institute began for the blind and was then expanded to meet the needs of children with other disabilities. He was an avid sailor and spent his summers in Nantucket. Mr. Dewey had the distinction of being one of the longest-running members of the New York Yacht Club. His warm and wise presence will be missed. Mr. Dewey is survived by his wife of 48 years, Frances Dear; his children, Frederick R., Dede W., John H. D. (Sara); and his sister Joanna. A memorial service is scheduled for Wednesday, June 5 at 3 PM at the Heavenly Rest Church, 2 East 90th St. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the New York Institute for Special Education, 999 Pelham Parkway, Bronx, NY, 10469.
        DEWEY-Gordon. The steering committee, staff and friends of Cornerstone, a national literacy initiative of The New York Institute for Special Education, notes with sadness and affection the passing of Gordon Dewey, the Chairman of the Board of The New York Institute for Special Education. Mr. Dewey was committed to raising the standards for children with special challenges, and in so doing, acting on the belief that no one is without gifts. He raised difficult questions and provided unwavering support. Our thoughts are with his wife Fran and other members of the Dewey family.
      