
        DEWEY-Gordon Chipman. 79, died peacefully May 30, 2002, at his home in New York City. Mr. Dewey was born in New York on April 9, 1923, to the late Frederick A. and Elisabeth (Braley) Dewey and is the grandson of John Dewey, the American philosopher and educator. Mr. Dewey studied nuclear physics at Harvard during WW II. During the war years, he worked at the Radiation Laboratory at MIT on early radar technology, as well as on The Manhattan Project. He was later recruited to be at the Pentagon for the Joint Chiefs of Staff with the Weapon Systems Evaluation Group, analyzing the nuclear retaliatory mission. In the 1950's he was a consultant to the Department of Defense, the White House (as a presidential appointee to the Air Traffic Control Board) and companies such as the Rand Corporation. In 1955, he founded The Dewey Electronics Corporation, taking it public in 1960. Today the company is active in the snowmaking and defense industries. He was President and CEO until his death. Mr. Dewey's extensive philanthropic efforts centered on education. He was past chairman of the Navy League Scholarship Committee. For 27 years he led The New York Institute for Special Education through a period of major building and transformation as the president of its board. The Institute began for the blind and was then expanded to meet the needs of children with other disabilities. He was an avid sailor and spent his summers in Nantucket. Mr. Dewey had the distinction of being one of the longest-running members of the New York Yacht Club. His warm and wise presence will be missed. Mr. Dewey is survived by his wife of 48 years, Frances Dear; his children, Frederick R., Dede W., John H. D. (Sara); and his sister Joanna. A memorial service is scheduled for Wednesday, June 5 at 3 PM at the Heavenly Rest Church, 2 East 90th St. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the New York Institute for Special Education, 999 Pelham Parkway, Bronx, NY, 10469.
        DEWEY-Gordon Chipman. The Board of Trustees of The New York Institute for Special Education (founded in 1831 as The New York Institute for the Education of the Blind) records with deep regret the death of its beloved and distinguished Board President. Mr. Dewey joined the Board in 1965 and has served as President since 1974. During his years of leadership, The New York Institute expanded programs beyond the original mission of blind children to also educate children with emotional and learning disabilities and pre-school children with developmental delays. Mr. Dewey provided essential guidance to the recently completed renovation of the Bronx campus and the development of the Cornerstone Literacy initiative. Mr. Dewey's devotion to The New York Institute was unsurpassed. His foresight and guidance is evident in the current vitality of the organization and his friendship will be deeply missed. Our sympathy is extended to his wife Frances and to his family. The Board of Trustees and Staff The New York Institute for Special Education
      