
        KESSLEROHEN - Estelle/d. Born in 1909, died in New York City on June 25, 2002. She married Louis M. Cohen, a lawyer, and textile manufacturer and founding member of the United Jewish Appeal. They had two daughters Hannah and Sandra. When Louis died Estelle continued to work closely with the UJA and served as a Board member of the American Jewish Committees Women's Campaign. She later married Henry H. Kessler, founder of the Kessler Institute for Rehabilitation in New Jersey. In later years, after Henry's death, she spent most of her time working for Rehabilitation International and the Kessler Institute and watching her five grandchildren grow, David, Brian, Kenneth, Nikolas and Alexandr. She also stayed close to her son-in-law Herbert Halberg and David's wife Frances. You are welcome to pay your respects on Thursday, June 27th, from 7 to 9 PM at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 81st St and Madison Ave. Services Friday, June 28, 2002, 12 noon at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave at 65th St. It will be followed by a burial service at Mt. Carmel Cemetery.
        KESSLER - Estelle. The Boards of Directors and staff of Kessler Rehabilitation Corporation and Kessler Institute for Rehabilitation mourn the passing of Estelle Kessler, wife of the late Dr. Henry H. Kessler, founder of Kessler Institute for Rehabilitation. Estelle was a dynamic and generous woman whose concern for all people was evident in her life's work. She served as a Trustee for the Kessler Institute for Rehabilitation and the Henry H. Kessler Foundation, with loyalty and devotion. Her vision and philanthropy on behalf of the physically disabled worldwide was matched only by her dignity and grace. She was an inspiration to all those whose lives she has touched at home and around the world. With great sympathy, Kenneth W. Aitchison, President and CEO Kessler Rehabilitation Corporation
        KESSLER COHEN--Estelle Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Estelle Cohen Kessler. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
      