
        BUCKLEY-Dennis F. We mourn the passing of Dennis Buckley, who led North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset for nearly 20 years. With leadership, foresight and tenacity, Mr. Buckley directed North Shore through a period of tremendous growth and transformation. Mr. Buckley joined North Shore Hospital in 1964 as controller. Within a year, he was named executive vice president and ultimately became head of the hospital. Under Mr. Buckley's tenure as chief executive officer, North Shore created teaching affiliations with Cornell University Medical College. In addition, the hospital's original red brick building grew to include new patient buildings, as well as teaching facilities and the Boas Marks Research Institute. Mr. Buckley retired as CEO in 1983, but continued as a consultant until 1987. We extend our condolences to his wife Jean and two daughters, Marie and Anne. Mr. Buckley's unfailing commitment to the hospital and the community was instrumental in making North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset the renowned institution it is today. His legacy will endure. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman, Board of Trustees Michael J. Dowling, President & CEO North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System
        BUCKLEY-Dennis F. With vision and integrity he lived his life in the service of others. As CEO of North Shore University Hospital, he set standards of excellence stimulating others to aspire to higher goals. His two decade tenure of leadershipe allowed those who came later to achieve greatness, all in behalf of the health of the public. His presence shall be missed but his values will persist. Sincere condolences to all his family. Lawrence Scherr, MD, MACP Chairman Emeritus, Department of Medicine, Northshore Univ. Hospital
        BUCKLEY-Dennis F. We are deeply saddened by the loss of Dennis Buckley, the chief executive officer of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset for nearly two decades. He was an exceptional leader, as well as a friend and mentor to many. He will be sorely missed. We extend our condolences to his family, particularly his wife Jean and daughters Marie and Anne. Dennis Dowling, Executive Director On behalf of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset
        BUCKLEY-Dennis F. We express our sincere sorrow on the death of our distinguished friend and colleague. His knowledge and analytical approach to problems and their solutions were valued strengths for his family, friends and hospital staff. Most of all, he understood the human condition and worked to make it better. We send our respect and condolences to Jean, Marie, Ann, Put and all the family. Peggy and Lawrence Scherr
        BUCKLEY-Dennis. A man of principle and commitment who turned a small community hospital into a major medical teaching center. He showed all of us how to do it. Jack Gallagher
      