
        STERN-Ghity Lindenbaum. On July 15, 2002 at home, with dignity and grace, surrounded by her family. Wife of the late Max Stern and the late Nathan Lindenbaum. Mother of Marcel (Belda), Maidy (Maurice), Armand (Jean), the late Henry (Ruth), Leonard Stern (Allison), Gloria Kisch, and the late Stanley and Marsha Stern. The matriarch of our family, her memory will live on in her children, her 24 grandchildren, and her 37 great-grandchildren. Her life was a blessing to us all. Shiva will be held at the Stern residence, Wednesday, 7:30AM - 5PM; Thursday, 10AM - 9:30PM; Friday, 7:30AM - 2PM; Sunday, 8:30AM - 9:30PM; Monday, 7:30AM. Services at 7:30AM and 6:40PM.
        STERN-Ghity Lindenbaum. The Yeshiva University Family mourns the passing of a matriarch of a family long identified with the growth and development of this institution. She was the wife of the late Nathan Lindenbaum & then the late Max Stern, who served for 35 years as the University Board of Trustees' vice chairman and with whom she was a Benefactor. The University's undergraduate Stern College for Women was established in 1954 with a major gift from Mr. Stern in memory of his parents. Mr. Stern and four others made the initial gifts that launched the campaign to found YU's Albert Einstein College of Medicine, on whose board he served. Mrs. Stern, former honorary chairman of the Stern College for Women Board of Directors, philanthropist, & communal leader in the United States & Israel, received an honorary degree from YU in 1987. Born in Lithuania, she was the daughter of the late Moshe Avigdor Amiel, Chief Rabbi of Antwerp, and, later, of Tel Aviv. YU extends heartfelt condolences to her children Maidy (and Maurice), Marcel (and Belda), YU Guardians Armand (and Jean), YU Benefactors Leonard (and Allison), and Gloria Kisch. The mother of the late Stanley (and Marsha) and the late Henry (and Ruth), she also leaves 24 grandchildren & thirty-seven great grandchildren. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Robert M. Beren, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Marjorie Diener Blenden, Chairman Stern College for Women Board of Directors Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Albert Einstein College of Medicine Board of Overseers
        STERN-Ghity. The worldwide Shaare Zedek family mourns the loss of this extraordinary woman who personified the qualities of elegance, dignity, and grace. A First Lady of the hospital and an Honorary Board member of the National Women's Division, she stood side-by-side with her beloved husband Max, of blessed memory, in so many important Jewish communal activities. We will always cherish and value the vision, enthusiasm and foresight of Mr. Stern, whose efforts were instrumental in building the new medical center complex. Our sincerest condolences to the Stern/Lindenbaum families. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Comm. for Shaare Zedek Med.Cntr in Jerusalem
        STERN-Ghity. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ghity Stern, who was an admired leader of the Jewish community. Through exceptional generosity, Mrs. Stern supported numerous Jewish and humanitarian causes. We extend our deepest sympathies to her children Maidy and Maurice Jeger; Gloria Kisch; Armand and Jean Lindenbaum; Marcel and Belda Lindenbaum; and Leonard and Allison Stern; to her 24 grandchildren and 37 greatgrandchildren; and to the entire Stern and Lindenbaum families. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & C.E.O.
        STERN-Ghity. Manhattan Day School/Yeshiva Ohr Torah records with profound sorrow the passing of Ghity Stern, Founder, Master Builder and past PTA President, who along with her husband Max, taught Klal Yisrael the true meaning of leadership. Mrs. Stern was loved and admired, devoted and devout, regal & royal, knowledgeable and renowned, wise & caring. Condolences to the Lindenbaum/Stern families. Rabbi M. Besser, Principal Eli Salig, President Elliot Gibber, Chairman
        STERN-Ghity. The Gesher Foundation mourns the passing of Mrs. Ghity Stern, the mother of our esteemed past Chairman and longtime benefactor, Marcel Lindenbaum, and extends heartfelt condolences to the entire Lindenbaum and Stern families. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Daniel Tropper, President Matthew J. Maryles Chairman
        STERN-Ghity. The Aleph Society extends deepest condolences to Marcel Lindenbaum and the entire family upon the passing of its matriarch. Her legacy continues through the good deeds and the grace of her children and grandchildren. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz Jack Nash, Chairman Ludwig Bravmann, President
        STERN-Ghity. Our deepest sympathy to Maidy Jeger, a devoted member of the Presidium of the Women's Club, upon the passing of her beloved mother. Fifth Avenue Synagogue Women's Club Anne Hiltzik, Chairman Mona Gelbart, Presidium
      