
        MOSLER-John E., on July 7, 2002, at age 79. Loving father of Bruce E. Mosler and his wife Wendy, John E. Mosler, Jr. and his wife Jennifer, and Michele A. Mosler. Devoted grandfather of David and Charlotte Mosler. Devoted brother of Janet Coleman and the late Edwin H. Mosler, Jr. Interment private. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Thursday, July 11, at 6PM. Contributions in his memory may be made to Fordham University.
        MOSLER-John E. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of The Jewish Guild for the Blind are deeply saddened by the death of John Mosler, former Chairman of the Board of Directors. His tenure as Chairman is remembered as a period of expansion that brought more programs and services to blind and visually impaired people of all ages. We extend our deepest sympathies to the Mosler family. Pauline Raiff, Chairman Alan R. Morse, President and CEO
        MOSLER-John. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns the passing of its longtime Trustee and recipient of the 1969 Appeal of Conscience Award. To his children, Bruce (ACF Associate), John and Michelle, our sincere condolences. Rabbi Arthur Schneier, Pres. Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J., Archbishop K. Barsamian, Vice Presidents
        MOSLER-John. The Sondra and Charles Gilman, Jr. Foundation, Inc. mourns the loss of John Mosler, one of the original trustees of our foundation. His thoughtful judgment and wise counsel guided us all. Our deepest sympathy goes to his loved ones & we share their sorrow. The Sondra and Charles Gilman, Jr. Foundation, Inc.
        MOSLER-John Sr. It is with the deepest sorrow that we bid farewell to John Mosler, Army veteran and beloved father of Bruce E. Mosler, dear friend and Trustee of the Intrepid Museum. With sincere sympathy. M. Anthony Fisher, The Fisher Family, Bill White, David Winters and all at Intrepid
        MOSLER-John. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our former Trustee, John Mosler. To his children, Bruce, our dedicated member and benefactor, and to John and Michelle, our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
      