
        OGUS-Dr. Alfred. A distinguished surgeon and resident of Rancho Santa Fe for 25 years, died on June 24, after a lengthy illness. Born in Washington DC in 1912, he received his medical degree from George Washington University in 1935. Following his internship at Gallinger Hospital, he completed his residency in 1938, at the Baltimore Eye and Ear Hospital, acting as assistant surgeon to Dr. Lee Cohen, a pioneer in the field of reconstructive surgery. After an additional two year course of study at Bellevue Hospital in NYC, Dr. Ogus was selected as Chief of Plastic Surgery at Halloran Veterans Hospital in Staten Island, where he remained until joining the U.S. Air Force as a Flight Surgeon in 1942. Dr. Ogus began his private practice at offices at 502 Park Avenue, NYC, and established his home some blocks away at 993 Park Avenue. During the 26 years of his active practice, he was a member of the staff of the LeRoy Hospital, the Wickersham Hospital and the St. Clare Annex. Known for his generosity, Dr. Ogus served as consultant and surgeon to the St. Clare Free Clinic in addition to contributing to many medical charities. A career member of the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Dr. Ogus was elected a Fellow of the American Society of Facial and Plastic Surgery in 1963. Upon his retirement, he continued his studies at the London School of Economics. During the following years, he and his beloved wife, Pat, maintained homes in both Rancho Santa Fe, CA and Cascais, Portugal, where they enjoyed memberships in both social and charitable groups. Sharing a thirst for adventure, he and Pat traveled extensively throughout the European and Asian continents. During his lifetime, Dr. Ogus was known for his generosity and caring manner. Many patients will recall both his great surgical skills and his concern for their well being. He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Patricia Ogus, a former child actress who appeared with Lionel Barrymore and Lew Ayres in the ''Dr. Kildare'' series; his nieces Dr. Norma Simon of Pelham, NY, Helen Albright of W. Los Angeles, Elena Paley of Arlington, VA, and Elaine Tepper of Washington, DC. A private memorial service was held on Friday, July 5 at the San Diego Hospice, 3rd Avenue, San Diego. Donations to the Hospice where Dr. Ogus received loving care, will be appreciated.
      