
        COHN - Bertram Douglas, M.D. founding Chief of Pediatric Surgery at Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY and resident of Brooklyn, NY and Cold Spring Harbor, NY on July 12, 2002. Beloved husband of Rita Brettschneider Cohn (Cold Spring Harbor, NY), devoted father of Jonathan and Anita Cohn (Chapel Hill, NC), Mark and Cindy Cohn (Washington, DC), Jeanne T. Cohn Connor (Washington, DC), Susan Cohn and Peter Nichols (Glastonbury, CT), and loving grandfather of Emily, Matthew, Julia and Ellen Cohn and of Hannah, Rachel and Eileen Connor. He is also survived by his step children, Jane Brettschneider and Jeff Alphin (Baltimore, MD) and Joe Brettschneider and Robin Espinola (Huntington, NY), his former spouse, Arline Cohn (New York, NY), and his brothers, David Cohn (West Point, NY) and Alan Cohn (Hermosa Beach, CA). We all love you and we'll miss you.
        COHN-Bertram, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center mourns with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Bertram Cohn. Dr. Cohn was a pediatric surgeon affiliated with the Department of Surgery at Maimonides since 1956. He started the Pediatric Surgery Division in 1958 and ran this division for almost 40 years. He was a surgeon par excellence and helped save many lives. He continued to practice until his death. He served as president of the medical staff from 1966-1967, he was the chairman of the research paper competition for the annual scientific session of Maimonides Day for over 35 years. He also served as chairman of the Health Information Management Committee for many years. He was one of the most compassionate physicians and will be sorely missed by all his colleagues, friends and patients. Sincere condolences are extended to his entire family. S. Farber, M.D., Pres. H. Lehman, M.D., Pres. Elect. I. Mayer, M.D., Secy. W. Wexelman, M.D., Treas. C. Schneider, Coordinator
        COHN-Bertram D., M.D. The entire Maimonides Medical Center family mourns the passing of our dear friend and highly esteemed pediatric surgeon and educator. Dr. Cohn began his career at the Medical Center more than four decades ago as the Founder and Director of its Division of Pediatric Surgery. A Clinical Professor of Surgery, SUNY Downstate/HSCB, Dr. Cohn also served as President of the Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center. Dr. Cohn distinguished himself through his superb skill, brilliant intellect, leadership and great passion. Beyond publications in numerous journals, his research activities with surgical instrumentation earned him U.S. patents. Though he will be sorely missed, his contributions to the Maimonides community will forever be appreciated. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Rita, and to the entire Cohn family. Martin D. Payson, Chairman Board of Trustees Stanley Brezenoff, President Maimonides Medical Center
        COHN-Bertram. M.D. The Department of Pediatrics and the Infants and Children's Hospital of Brooklyn of Maimonides Medical Center note with sorrow the passing of Bertram Cohn, M.D., an esteemed and longstanding member of our staff. Although Dr. Cohn was a pediatric surgeon, he was considered by all of us to be a pediatrician as well. He served all of our children and families with class, availability, and a gentlemanly manner; a surgeon in a pediatrician's coat. He served for many years as the only pediatric surgeon on staff and was available to care for the surgical needs of the children of Brooklyn. Our deep condolences to his family. His skills and his teaching will be sorely missed. Steven P. Shelov, M.D., M.S. Chairman, Dept. of Pediatrics Vice President, Infants and Children's Hospital of Brooklyn Maimonides Medical Center Vice Chairs, Dept. of Pediatrics
        COHN-Bertram, M.D. Joseph N. Cunningham, M.D., Chairman; Joel Horovitz, M.D, Vice-Chairman and the Department of Surgery of Maimonides Medical Center mourns the passing of our prominent pediatric surgeon, Bertram Cohn, M.D. Dr. Cohn joined the surgical staff in 1956 and formed the Division of Pediatric Surgery at Maimonides Medical Center. He served as its chief for many years and was recognized for his clinical expertise, his many contributions to the field of surgery and his teachings to surgical residents. Dr. Cohn was an innovative and dedicated pediatric surgeon who shall be missed greatly.
        COHN-Bertram. Our deepest condolences to the family. Your more than forty-six years of dedicated service to the children of Brooklyn will be forever appreciated and your intelligence and skill will be sorely missed. Edward Shlasko, M.D. Division of Pediatric Surgery
      