
        WYLER-Marjorie Goldwasser, 86, of New York City and Westport, CT. Beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother, died July 22, 2002 at Norwalk Hospital of respiratory failure. A distinguished public relations professional, she was a pioneer in the presentation of Judaism to the American public and a strong advocate for the ethics of social justice inherent to Judaism. Marjorie served the Jewish Theological Seminary of America for more thatn half a century as its Director of Public Relations. She produced the renowned Eternal Light show, was an expert in Jewish radio and television, and on the Board of Odyssey, a faithbased cable channel. She also represented the Jewish Museum in its early years. She was an active member and former president of the Boards of Surprise Lake Camp and the Jewish Child Care Association, among others. Bryn Mawr College, '36, BA and MA in Philosophy, graduate studies, New School University in Exile. Recent widow of Wilfred Wyler, she is survived by her daughters, Ruth W. Messinger, of New York and Barbara W. Gold of Philadelphia; her sons-in-law, Eli Messinger, Stephen Gold and Andrew Lachman; her five grandchildren, Daniel, Miriam and Adam Messinger and Rachel and Russell Gold and their partners, Batya Elbaum, Felicia Hayes, Kira Plagge, Justin Auld and Laura Hernandez Gold; a sister, Joan Schine and a brother Edwin L. Goldwasser; and five great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be held on Thursday July 25th at 2 p.m. ''The Riverside'', 76th and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Surprise Lake Camp, 307 Seventh Ave. Shiva will be observed at the home of Ruth Messinger, 91 Central Park West, (69th St.) on Thursday, 6-9 pm, Friday 2-6 pm, Sunday and Monday 4-8 pm.
        WYLER-Marjorie. Surprise Lake Camp mourns the loss of Marjorie Wyler, our Past President and Board Member for more that fifty years. This remarkable woman and her tireless dedication to our agency will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to her daughter, Ruth Messinger, President of our Board, and her entire family.
        WYLER-Marjorie. The Society for the Advancement of Judaism records with profound sorrow the death of our longtime, devoted member Marjorie Wyler. We extend our condolences to her entire family. Michael Strassfeld, Rabbi Abraham Clott, Bd. Chm.
      