
        HENLEY-Walter L., M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians, nurses and staff of the Milton and Bernice Stern Department of Pediatrics, in acknowledging the passing of our dear friend and longtime collegue Walter L. Henley, M.D. Prior to his retirement in 1998, Dr. Henley served with great distinction for more than 20 years as a member of the pediatric staff, including a brief tenure as Acting Chairman of the Department. He will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Edith and his entire family. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Board of Trustess Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO Sidney K. Stein, M.D. President, Medical Board Edward Conway, M.D. Chairman of Pediatrics Robert L. Salant, M.D. Pres, Doctors Alumni Assoc
        HENLEY-Walter L., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague. Dr. Henley completed a Sara Welt Fellowship in Pediatrics in 1954, and served the institution and its patients for several decades. A highly respected clinician and scholar, he was formal in his exchange with colleagues and students, yet warm and stimulating in his role as an educator. He will be remembered for his courtly presence and for his many contributions to the field of pediatrics. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Anthony Squire, MD President Vicki Lopachin, MD Secretary Amy Weinstein Administrator
        HENLEY-Dr. Walter L. He joined the Department of Pediatrics at Mt. Sinai Hospital as a Research Fellow & was one of the early investigators in the field of immunology. He completed his pediatric training and entered clinical pediatrics. He conducted a large practice but never lost his interest in immunology. He became a professor in the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine and was regarded as a very bright, inquiring clinician/ scientist and an outstanding teacher of medical students and house staff. The parents of his patients admired his warm manner and medical skills. In his later years, he worked at the Rockefeller Institute and the Beth Israel Hospital. Frederick Suchy, M.D. Chairman of Pediatrics
        HENLEY-Walter L., M.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague & longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Pres. William G. Stein, M.D., VP Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Sec. George Raptis, M.D., Treas.
        HENLEY-Walter L. We regret to announce the death of Dr. Walter Henley, an active member of the New York Pediatric Society. We will miss him greatly. Aaron Meislin, Secretary Irwin Gribetz, Treasurer
      