
        GIBSON - George Warner. Died on July 18, 2002 at his home in Hallowell, Maine. He was 93. He was the beloved husband of the late Diana Gibson of Hallowell. George Gibson was born on February 19, 1909 in Chestnut Hill, MA, the son of Kirkland Hopkins Gibson and Florence Warner. He attended Rivers School and graduated from Milton Academy in 1927, from Harvard University in 1931, and from Harvard Business School in 1933. After his graduation, Mr. Gibson apprenticed in the textile trade, working in Nashua, New Hampshire for the operators of a garneting machine. He then worked for the textile firm founded by his great grandfather, William Skinner and Sons, for which he traveled widely throughout New England selling patented satin silk to shoe companies. Mr. Gibson loved the sea and was an avid sailor. He joined the US Naval Reserve during World World II and rose to the rank of Lieutenant Commander. After the war in the Pacific ended, he was Executive Officer of Radio Tokyo in Japan. Following the war, Mr. Gibson moved to New York City and re-joined the firm of William Skinner and Sons, where he ultimately became a vice president. He married Diana Vaughan Marvin on November 15, 1947 and they lived in New York City, summering in Hallowell, Maine. In the mid-1960s he joined a textile consulting firm, soon becoming a partner, from which he retired in 1974. At the time, the Gibsons changed their primary residence to Hallowell, spending winter months in New York. Mr. Gibson was a member of the Harvard Club and a director of the English Speaking Union. He also served as his Harvard class agent. He became a Director and served a term as President of the Pine Tree State Arboretum, a nonprofit organization in Augusta, Maine. He was a generous benefactor of that organization and volunteered many hours of his time there. He was also a member of the Hallowell Tree Board, among other voluntary activities. The Gibsons were active stewards of the family property known as the Vaughan Woods. They donated a conservation easement to the Kennebec Land Trust that forever protects the woods. George Gibson is survived by his three children, George L. Gibson and his wife, Linda Johns, of New York City, Ellen Vaughan Gibson of Roslindale, MA and David Hallowell Gibson and Susan Gibson of Ballston Lake, New York; and his sister and brother-in-law, Eleanor and Amor Hollingsworth, of Westwood, MA; and by a number of nephews and nieces. Memorial contributions may be made to the Pine Tree State Arboretum or the Kennebec Land Trust. A memorial will be held at a later date. For information Knowlton & Hewins Funeral Home, One Church Street, Augusta, ME 04330. www.khrfuneralhomes.com
      