
        NADLER-Annette. On July 1, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Jacob Nadler. Devoted mother of David, Gail and the late James Nadler, and motherin-law of Christine. Dear grandmother of Adam and Peter. Adoring aunt to many nieces and nephews. Initial member and lifetime president of Manhattan Guild supporting the Childrens Center at the Chaim Sheba Medical Center in Israel. Funeral service on Wednesday, 12:00 PM, at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65th St. Interment, Mt. Pleasant Cemetery.
        NADLER-Annette. Annette Nadler was a source of inspiration to me. Her life was lived with courage, dignity, honor and pride. I count myself fortunate to have enjoyed a friendship of more than fifty years with this most remarkable woman. I offer my love and condolences to David, Chris, and Gail. Doris Rubin
        NADLER - Annette. The Chaim Sheba Medical Center-Tel Hashomer, and the Friends of Sheba Medical Center mourn the death of our beloved friend, Annette Nadler, wife of the late Jack Nadler, devoted mother of David, Gail, and the late James Nadler. For nearly 50 years, Annette was president of the Manhattan Guild, formed in 1946 by a group of young women who raised funds for the emerging State of Israel. They supported countless critical projects at Tel Hashomer Medical Center, including the Manhattan Guild Children's Center, a dental clinic, a kindergarten for the children of hospital staff, playgrounds, surgical and cardiac wings, an MRI facility, part of major construction of the new hospital, and and funded other equipment and services, helping to create Israel's largest and most comprehensive medical facility and the major hospital serving the IDF. One of her closet friends and Manhattan Guild colleagues said, ''She was our star-a tower of strength, devotion and dedication, with a deep well of humanity and love. Rare beyond words, she was our everthing.'' 56 years have passed, but her highest devotion and love for the Hospital never waned. In sorrow and joy, we remember Annette, praising her life's work as mother, wife, and dear friend. Mordechai Shani Director-General Chaim Sheba Medical CenterTel Hashomer Susie Greenwood, President Linda Frankel, Executive Director Friends of Sheba Medical Center
        NADLER-Annette. President & guiding light of Manhattan Guild for over 40 years. Her quiet yet determined leadership and wisdom influenced Chaim Sheba Medical Center in Israel in the past and laid a firm foundation for its future. She will be sadly missed and long remembered. We extend our sincerest condolences to her family. Contributions may be made to Manhattan Guild, 214 East 61st Street, NY, NY 10021. Marty Silverman and Family
        NADLER-Annette. The Manhattan Guild deeply mourns the loss of our beloved President. She was our tower of strength and will be sorely missed by all. Friends of Manhattan Guild
      