
        WALLACH-John Paul. On July 10, 2002. Beloved husband of Janet. Loving father of Michael and David. Cherished grandfather ''Pop'' to Jordan. Dear brother of Susan Gordon and brother-inlaw of Billy Gordon and uncle of Geoffrey and Samantha. Visiting Friday 11:30AM to 12PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. followed by a service at 3PM at The Washington Club Hall, Washington, CT, 860-868-0376. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Seeds of Peace, 370 Lexington Ave., New York City 10017.
        WALLACH-John. A man of peace. You were a dear and wonderful friend. Your depth of caring rubbed off on all who you came in contact with. The world suffered a loss on July 10th when John Wallach passed away. He was a man who had a dream of peace in the Middle East, and in the entire world, and committed his life to achieving peaceful co-existence amongst historically warring people. His accomplishments at Seeds of Peace will inure over years and years to the benefit of people who will never get to meet or thank John, and we take the liberty of thanking him on their behalf. Seeing the interaction of the young people who have gone through the Seeds of Peace program, we know that peace in the Middle East, which seems so elusive at this time, can and will be a reality due to the efforts of John. His life is proof that one man can make a difference. John, we thank you for the privilege of working with you for these past ten years. You have made our life a better one, an we are committed to continuing to work towards peaceful co-existence in the Middle East and elsewhere in your memory. We will miss you terribly. Helaine and Fred Gould, Bonni and Jeffrey Gould, Wendy and Steven Shenfeld, Ferne and Matthew Gould
        WALLACH-John P. The staff of Seeds of Peace honor John Wallach, President and Founder, at this terrible time of his death. The Seeds of Peace staff will remember his neverending support for assuring the Seeds of Peace mission-to sow the seeds of peace among youth living with the horror of war and violence. As his son Michael wrote: ''We are his life continued. And more than that we are his dream.'' We especially express our love and admiration to Janet, Michael and David-upon whom we will depend to keep the vision alive. Dena Fisher, Ph.D., Executive Director, and the staff of Seeds of Peace
        WALLACH-John. The Hirsch Family and Camp Androscoggin mourn the loss of our esteemed friend and colleague, John Wallach, a man who was able to turn his dream into reality. We feel honored to have known John and been given the opportunity to be involved in such a noble cause. Stanley and Barbara Hirsch Peter and Roberta Hirsch Liz Carlin
        WALLACH-John. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Janet and the entire Wallach family on the loss of our dear friend, John. He was truly a gift to all humanity and a visionary whose compassion, intellect, charisma and optimism will continue to be an inspiration for us all. Mort, Carole, Andrea and Michael Olshan
        WALLACH-John. The world has suffered a loss at the passing of John Wallach. It was an honor and privilege to have worked with him on his lifelong dedication for peaceful co-existence in the Middle East. Our families are dedicated to fulfilling his dream. David and Pernilla Avital Jeffrey and Melissa Fishman
        WALLACH-John. Relentless peacemaker, romantic poet, creative visionary, a man of enormous substance and style. John enhanced our lives for a quarter of a century. Valerie & Allen Hyman
        WALLACH-John. In loving memory. Mr. Warmly. We will miss you. Susan, Billy, Geoffrey and Samantha
      