
        SINKOFF-Marvin W., MD. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our long-standing colleague, teacher, and friend. Dr. Sinkoff graduated from the New York University School of Medicine. He began his long affiliation with Mount Sinai in the Department of Medicine in 1950. He devoted the next several decades to superb medical practice and teaching in the field of Endocrinology. He will be fondly remembered for his intelligence, compassion, and diligence. He was loved by his patients and respected by his colleagues, who knew him as ''the quintessence of a physician.'' The AAS salutes Dr. Sinkoff's outstanding commitment and his many years of service. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Anthony Squire, MD, Prsident Vicki Lopachin, MD, Secretary Amy Weinstein, Administrator
        SINKOFF-Marvin W., M.D. The Mount Sinai Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes & Bone Diseases mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend. We extend our deepest condolences to his entire family. Dr. Sinkoff was a physician of great wisdom and charisma and dedicated his life to his patients. He was generous with his time and advice to his many colleagues. Our Marvin Sinkoff Endocrinology Research Endowment to which he, his friends and patients contributed most generously, will carry his memory and support forward to new generations of physicians. I personally will greatly miss his wise counsel in good times and bad. Terry F. Davies, M.D. Division Chair
        SINKOFF-Marvin W. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center Family acknowledges with great sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Marvin W. Sinkoff, M.D., a longtime member of the hospitals medical staff. To his family, friends and all of his loved ones we extend our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President and CEO Sidney K. Stein, M.D. President, Medical Board Stephen G. Baum, M.D. Chairman, Dept of Medicine Robert L. Salant, M.D. President, Doctors Alumni Association
        SINKOFF-Marvin W., M.D. The Mt. Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and long-time friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Pres. William G. Stein, M.D., VP Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secy. George Raptis, M.D., Treas.
        SINKOFF-Marvin W. M.D. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and caring physician. We will miss you. Our condolenes to his family. Lois Ballon Lewis Rabinowitz
        SINKOFF-Marvin W., Dr. We are saddened by his passing. He demonstrated extraordinary courage, and his joy of life never left. Class 1946, Columbia College
        SINKOFF-Marvin W., M.D. My friend, I shall miss your presence and the times we shared. Rest in peace. Always, Helene Sencer
      