
        GUNNERSON - PAGE - Mick ey. On Thursday July 4, 2002 died of natural causes after an extended illness. Born in Wilmington, NC, of Carl Gunnerson and Nettie Fern Ellis Gunnerson on February 11, 1932 and raised in New Bern, she attended the University of North Carolina where she began her study of dance. Her natural ability coupled with her earnestness at dance classes quickly made it evident that she was a dancer to be watched. In 1952, she ventured to move to New York City and studied with Muriel Stuart, Anatole Oboukof, Mme. Dubrovska and Mr. Vladimoroff at the School of American Ballet. Her dark Norwegian beauty coupled with her training soon began Mickey's extraordinary career. She appeared in 17 shows on Broadway including, ''How to Succeed in Business'', ''Sweet Charity'', ''Tenderloin'', ''Juno'', ''I Remember Mama'' and such revivals as ''The Pajama Game'', ''My Fair Lady'' and ''Brigadoon''. She performed for several summer seasons at the Guy Lombardo Jones Beach Theatre, at the New York City Center and in Las Vegas. Renowned choreographers Agnes DeMille, Michael Bennett, Jack Cole, Alvin Ailey, Bob Fosse, Joe Layton, Graziella Danielle and John Butler chose Mickey, not just for her talent, but for her professionalism and reliability. Television choreographer, Robert Pagent, needed dancers for the grueling weekly ''Voice of Firestone'' and ''Bell Telephone'' television shows. They needed to be versatile and able to adapt to the quick study and limited time required. Pagent hired Gunnerson consistently for those shows during what were called the ''Golden Years'' of television. Miss Gunnerson married Stanley Page and they would have celebrated their 47th wedding anniversary this year. Page's career as a singer spanned a similar lengthy period of performing on Broadway and around the country as well as on television. Many stage colleagues became her lifetime friends. Mickey's other interests included environmental concerns and a love for animals. Many stray or abandoned dog or cat was given a comforting and caring home by the Pages. She also volunteered as a tutor for immigrants to help them master English as their second language. Her hobbies included scuba diving and skiing. Mickey Gunnerson was the epitome of so many of those somewhat anonymous stage performers backing up the bright stars and musical numbers that make the magic of the theatre come alive for all of us. Her impressive career is what ''A Chorus Line'' was all about. In addition to her husband, Stan, her sister, Gunhilde Brandt of Morehead City, North Carolina survives her. Friends may call Monday July 8, 2002 and Tuesday July 9, 2002 from 2 to 4 & 7 to 9 PM at Joseph W. Sorce F.H. Inc., 728 West Nyack Rd., West Nyack, NY (845) 358-4433, www.sorcefuneralhome.com. A Memorial Service is planned for July 13, 2002 at 11:00 AM in the Clarkstown Reformed Church in West Nyack, Rockland County, New York. Should you wish to remember Mickey, a contribution to Hi-Tor Animal Care Center, 65 Firemans Memorial Drive, Pomona, New York 10970, would be appreciated.
      