
        WYLER-Marjorie Goldwasser, 86, of New York City and Westport, CT. Beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother, died July 22, 2002 at Norwalk Hospital of respiratory failure. A distinguished public relations professional, she was a pioneer in the presentation of Judaism to the American public and a strong advocate for the ethics of social justice inherent to Judaism. Marjorie served the Jewish Theological Seminary of America for more thatn half a century as its Director of Public Relations. She produced the renowned Eternal Light show, was an expert in Jewish radio and television, and on the Board of Odyssey, a faithbased cable channel. She also represented the Jewish Museum in its early years. She was an active member and former president of the Boards of Surprise Lake Camp and the Jewish Child Care Association, among others. Bryn Mawr College, '36, BA and MA in Philosophy, graduate studies, New School University in Exile. Recent widow of Wilfred Wyler, she is survived by her daughters, Ruth W. Messinger, of New York and Barbara W. Gold of Philadelphia; her sons-in-law, Eli Messinger, Stephen Gold and Andrew Lachman; her five grandchildren, Daniel, Miriam and Adam Messinger and Rachel and Russell Gold and their partners, Batya Elbaum, Felicia Hayes, Kira Plagge, Justin Auld and Laura Hernandez Gold; a sister, Joan Schine and a brother Edwin L. Goldwasser; and five great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be held on Thursday July 25th at 2 p.m. ''The Riverside'', 76th and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Surprise Lake Camp, 307 Seventh Ave. Shiva will be observed at the home of Ruth Messinger, 91 Central Park West, (69th St.) on Thursday, 6-9 pm, Friday 2-6 pm, Sunday and Monday 4-8 pm.
        WYLER-Marjorie. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Marjorie Wyler, a cherished friend and exemplary leader who was greatly admired for her unwavering dedication to Jewish and humanitarian causes. Mrs. Wyler was extremely active within UJA-Federation's network of social-service agencies and served as president and board member of Surprise Lake Camp and as a trustee of the Jewish Child Care Association of New York. Her philanthropic contributions will continue to touch the lives of many for years to come. Mrs. Wyler's father, the late Dr. I. Edwin Goldwasser, was the first executive director of the New York Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, the forerunner of UJA-Federation. Her daughter, the Honorable Ruth Messinger, continues her family's legacy of caring through her extraordinary generosity to UJA-Federation and her commitment to its beneficiary agencies. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Wyler's daughters, Ruth and Barbara; to her sons-in-law; & to the entire Wyler family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec VP & C.E.O.
      