
        HAMPTON-Colin Campbell. Of Amelia Island, Florida, a former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of UNUM Corporation, parent company of UNUM Life Insurance Company, died on Wednesday, July 24, 2002, in a local hospital. Mr. Hampton died after heart surgery. He was 79. Under Mr. Hampton's chairmanship, UNUM became the first mutual life insurance company of size to ''demutualize'' officially converting from a mutual company to a publically owned company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. In the process, the company's surplus was distributed to its policy holders in part in cash and in part in stock amounting to a total distribution of roughly $652 million. Mr. Hampton was a true visionary. From the time he became CEO in 1970, until his retirement in 1988, UNUM's assets substantially increased from $270 million to over $7 billion. Profits increased over this time period from $2.5 million to $125 million. The company gained reputation as the leading seller of Long Term Disability Income and the only insurance company with a dominant position in both Group and Individual Disability Income. Mr. Hampton was born in New Haven, Connecticut, the son of the late George Wellington and Jean Stewart Hampton. He graduated from Vanderbilt University, attended New York University Graduate School of Economics; received an M.B.A. from the University of Maine and an honorary Doctor of Science in Business Administration from Thomas College. He served in the U.S. Air Force in World War II as a First Lieutenant, receiving the European Air Medal with Oak Leaf Clusters. He married his college sweetheart, Marjorie Alice Brown, of Savannah, Georgia, in June 1951. Mr. Hampton first entered the investment business in 1949 in New York as a security analyst with Bankers Trust. In 1956, he joined Union Mutual Life Insurance Company in Portland, Maine, as a security analyst in the Investment Department. Mr. Hampton quickly moved up in the company, finally becoming Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in 1970. Mr. Hampton served the state of Maine in numerous ways. He was a Director and Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce in the Greater Portland region, Chairman of the Maine Committee on the Judicial Responsibility and Disability, and Chairman for the Greater Portland United Way Campaign and Cumberland County Chairman for the March of Dimes. He served as co-chairman of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum's ''Campaign to Remember,'' Maine State Campaign, raising a then record $1.3 million. He was the Maine State Chairman for the U.S. Olympics. Mr. Hampton received the Eleventh Annual Pine Tree Distinguished Citizen Award for his outstanding contribution to the community. Mr. Hampton served as a Director of Colonial Life and Accident Insurance Co., American Council of Life Insurance, Life Office Management Association, Central Maine Power Company, Key Trust Company of Maine, Peoples Heritage Bank, Maine Medical Center, Portland Boys' Club and Associated Industries of Maine. He was a senior member of the Conference Board, a Trustee of the Maine Court Facilities Authority, Westbrook College, New England College Fund, Inc., and MGI Properties, Inc. He was Chairman of the Health Insurance Association of America and for Vanderbilt University for the state of Maine. He was a member of the Portland Country Club, the Cumberland Club, the Newcomen Society, the Torch Club of Western Maine, the Cabinet of Vanderbilt University, the Amelia Island Plantation Ocean Club and St. Peter's Episcopal Church in Amelia Island. He was an avid golfer and proud of his two holes-inone. He is survived by his loving wife Marjorie Brown Hampton, a son, Colin C. Hampton Jr., of Sea Ranch Lakes, Florida, and a daughter, Carolyn Hampton LoRusso, of Medfield, Massachusetts, as well as four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at 11 AM, July 31, at St. Peter's Episcopal Church. In lieu of flowers, memorial gifts may be made to College of Arts and Science at Vanderbilt University, West End Avenue, Nashville, Tennessee.
      