
        FRENCHMAN-Gerald L. 68 years old, loving husband and father of four, died on Saturday after a long and courageous battle with complications following heart surgery this past October. He is survived by his wife Cynthia; his four children Peter, Robert, Kenneth, and Jill; his sister Harriet; and his four grandchildren. Services to be held today at 1:15 at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam at 76th Street, New York, New York. Following services, the family will sit shiva through Friday at the Frenchman's home, 74 Jared Drive, White Plains, New York.
        FRENCHMAN - Gerald L. ContiGroup Companies, Inc., formerly Continental Grain, mourns the loss of Gerry Frenchman, one of its most respected and long-time colleagues. Gerry came to the company in 1965, bringing with him a wealth of knowledge and experience, and made significant contributions to the company over many years. From his initial position as controller until his retirement as Vice President of the Tax Department, Gerry impressed all those who were fortunate to work with him with his dedication and professionalism. In addition to advising the company, he was a true confidant to Michel Fribourg, Chairman Emeritus, and the entire Fribourg family. ContiGroup sends its deepest condolence to his wife, Cynthia, and their four children, Peter, Robert, Kenneth and Jill, who were a constant source of strength to him.
        FRENCHMAN - Gerald L. Gerry has been part of our lives for more than 35 years. In addition to being a senior executive at Continental Grain, he was a close personal friend, advisor, and confidant of the Fribourg family. He brought imagination and a very human touch to a profession which didn't easily lend itself to such qualitiestax accountancy. His intelligence and experience, and wonderful, warm sense of humor, made all of us constantly go to him for advice and guidance on so many issues over the years. He always had a solution. He always had heart. We will miss him enormously. We take solace knowing that he is now with Michel, who cared deeply and admired his good friend, Gerry. Our thoughts are very much with his wonderful wife, Cindy, and his four children who gave him so much joy. The Fribourg family
      