
        HERMAN-Leon. Artist, psychotherapist, photographer, theatre director, Korean War veteran, builder, farmer, teacher, columnist, citizen of the world, native New Yorker, loving husband, father and grandfather. Died of a heart attack on Saturday, July 6 at his beach home in Cape Hatteras, N.C. at age 72. Survived by his wife, and loving lifelong companion of 48 years, Cheryl, his brother Murray and sister Edith Deutsch both of New York City, his sons Steven and Phillip, his daughters Dominique and Andrea and his granddaughter Zoe. The funeral was on Monday, July 8 at Beth Shalom Cemetery in Florida, N.Y. where he is buried beside his son Daniel who died in 1989. An abstract expressionist oil painter and landscape watercolorist, he began painting at age 18 and studied summers at the Art Student's League. A lifelong love affair with ''the city'' revealed itself in his paintings and photographic works. His education began at Adelphi University, B.A. 1950, Cornell University, Master's in City Planning at the College of Architecture, 1953, Ph.d. candidate at University of Aix-Marsailles, France, 1959-60, Regents Certificate from Washington Square Institute for Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy 1970 and Postgraduate Center for Mental Health, 1973. In the 1960s he directed and produced an Equity summer stock theatre, the Warwick Playhouse, in a converted barn on their 100 acre farm in Warwick, N.Y. for five years. He was a program director and consultant at Matteawan State Hospital for the Criminally Insane and, later, Director of the Goshen Secure Center for Boys in 1974-5. He conducted an extensive private psychotherapy practice in New York City and Orange County, N.Y. for 25 years. During retirement in N.C., he wrote a weekly newspaper Psychotherapy - Problem Solving column called ''Brief Encounter'', which appeared in the Outer Banks Sentinal of Nags Head, N.C. and the St. John's Evening Telegram of St. John's Newfoundland for 2-3 years. In the last decade or two of his life, he and his wife, who were living in an oceanfront house on the outer banks of N.C. which he designed and built himself as a hurricaine - proof structure, would travel abroad most often to Greece and the Mediterranen. While traveling he would do watercolors and photographs of the scenes he loved and the people he met. A uniquely devoted, loving husband and father, he thought always about and for the family. He lived and died in the bosom of his family and their love and thoughts will always follow him.
      