
        GOROG-William F. William F. Gorog, one of America's most successful entrepreneurs who often noted that an almost warped sense of optimism, ''a refusal to accept reality'' was required to succeed in bringing pioneering technologies into mainstream use, died of complications from lung cancer on July 14, 2002 surrounded by his family in McLean, Virginia. Mr. Gorog was 76, and is survived by his wife of 53 years, Gretchen Meister Gorog, six children, and 21 grandchildren. Mr. Gorog's forty plus years in business included Co-Founding both Data Corporation and InteliData and serving as Chairman and CEO. During his career he also served as President of the Magazine Publishers Association, Chairman of the Chief Executives Organization, participated in the creation of VeriFone and served in President Ford's White House as head of the Council on International Economic Policy. In community affairs, Mr. Gorog served as chairman of The Board of Visitors of the Georgetown University School of Business; and as Chairman of The Washington Campus, a consortium of sixteen university business schools that provides student exposure to the workings of the Federal Government. Mr. Gorog most recently CoFounder and Chairman of InteliData (NASDAQ: ''INTD'') where he helped pioneer the Electronic Banking and Bill Payment (EBPP) technology. Mr. Gorog was born in Warren, Ohio on September 2, 1925. He graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1949, attended Carnegie Mellon and achieved his Master of Science Degree in Industrial Engineering from the Ohio State University Graduate School. Mr. Gorog served both in World War II and the Korean War. Shortly after the Korean War, he Co-Founded and served as Chairman and CEO of Data Corporation, a high technology research and development company where he conceived of and developed the computerized law and news information systems known as LEXIS/ NEXIS now in use by thousands of law firms, courts, federal agencies, and corporations throughout the United States. Mr. Gorog's company also worked extensively with NASA and developed the photo-optics and systems for the Apollo Mission to the Moon. In 1969 Data Corporation was merged with the Mead Corporation and he became a director of Mead and remained Data's Chairman and CEO. In 1975 Mr. Gorog joined the Ford Administration as the Deputy Director of President's Economic Policy Board and in 1976 was made Executive Director of the Council on International Economic Policy. In this capacity, he was a member of the White House Senior Staff and reported directly to the President. Mr. Gorog left the White House after the change in administration in 1977 and established a trading company primarily involved in the export of U.S. computer products to the Far East. During this period, he also acted as managing partner of an investment group and advisor to foreign investors in Europe, the Middle East, and Latin America. From 1983 to 1987, he was President of the Magazine Publishers of America, an association composed of the principal consumer magazine publishers such as Time Warner, Conde Nast, and Hearst. In 1987, Mr. Gorog became Chairman and CEO of Arbor International, an investment management company involved in financing energy, high technology, and real estate ventures. The InteliData project was started at Arbor and the corporation was formed in 1990. During these periods, Mr. Gorog served as a director of VeriFone, the California-based transaction automation company and of Fiskars, a Helsinki-based worldwide manufacturer. He served in the banking industry as a Director of Commerce Union Bank of Nashville, Sovran Bank of Norfolk, C&S Sovran of Atlanta, and NationsBank, VA. In 1949, Mr. Gorog, an only child, married Gretchen Meister, also an only child and together they had six children: Robin Gorog, Jonathan Gorog, Christopher Gorog, Lesley Gorog Harris, Jennifer Gorog Nichols, Peter Gorog, and twenty-one grandchildren. Gretchen and all his children and grandchildren survive him. Many of Mr. Gorog's six children and twenty-one grandchildren share his pioneering, entrepreneurial spirit, and are successful business executives, entrepreneurs and Olympians in their own rights. Mr. Gorog was a member of the Knights of Malta since 1976, a lay order of the Roman Catholic Church, and is a member of St. Luke Catholic Church in McLean, Virginia. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the American Cancer Society specified for lung cancer research.
      