
        LESSER-Stanley C. Died July 28, 2002, at the age of 72. Beloved husband of Diana Lesser and the late Elaine Lesser. Brother of Leonard Lesser (Bernice). Devoted father of Dr. Karen Lesser (Greg Manninen), Susan Lesser (Andrew Campbell) and David Lesser (Danielle Lesser). Adoring grandfather of Michael, Ethan, Eliza, Sarah, Joshua and Benjamin. Services Tuesday, July 30, at 11:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Shiva will be held on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, from 4 PM, with evening services at 8 PM, and all day on Sunday at his home. Expressions of sympathy in lieu of flowers should be sent to the Columbia University Cancer Center-Elaine B. Lesser Fund; Columbia University Health Science Division, 100 Haven Avenue, Suite 29D, New York, NY 10032-2626, attention: Laura Chiapetta.
        LESSER-Stanley. The New York University community grieves for the loss of its longtime, loyal friend, Stanley Lesser. A graduate of our undergraduate college and our law school, past president of the law school's alumni association, President of the NYU Alumni Association, and a trustee, he devoted countless hours of service over many years to our University. He was always willing to take on any task to help and improve NYU. He was a good man, and his wisdom, his dedication, and his energy will be keenly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Diana, his children, and his grandchildren. John Sexton President, NYU Martin Lipton Chair, NYU Board of Trustees
        LESSER-Stanley. New York University has lost a devoted, respected, and cherished son. Stan Lesser championed the importance of NYU's alumni, ensuring them an active and important place as part of a vibrant community, and in so doing strengthened the University. We join the entire University community in grieving for the loss of this esteemed alumnus and friend. The Executive Committee of the NYU Alumni Association
        LESSER-Stanley C. The Sapperstein family mourns the passing of Charlotte's dear cousin, friend and advisor. You were always there for us. Thank you. We will miss you.
        LESSER-Stanley. The Board of Trustees that he served as Secretary for 25 years mourns the loss of a man of stature, dedication and devotion, who served unselfishly and helped immeasurably in the restoration of The Town Hall. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family, colleagues and friends, all of whom have lost an irreplaceable gentle person. Marvin Leffler, President Town Hall Foundation
      