
        SNEDDON-Kristine Fleisher, Ph.D, passed away on July 28, 2002, surrounded by her friends and family at her home in Weston, CT. The Sneddon family, long time residents of the Upper West Side, moved to Weston in the summer of 1991 with their youngest children, Jesse and Mika. Kristine became actively involved in the local community, with a special commitment to the Weston public school system. She served as president of the Weston High School ParentTeacher Organization in 1996-1997, working closely with parents, teachers, the Board of Education and the school administration. Her doctorate in Community Psychology and her understanding of group dynamics served her well in her tenure with the PTO. Kristine was selected to serve on the Quality and Diversity Committee for the school system and, as an outgrowth of this endeavor, became involved in facilitating Leadership Conferences with students from local communities. She facilitated seminars with parents and teachers in the school system to help them better understand effective communication skills. The high school also asked Kristine to assist in some difficult and sensitive mediations and conflict resolutions at school. Additionally, Kristine ran a parenting group for mothers of younger children in Hurlbutt Elementary School who asked her to facilitate a group after attending seminars which she conducted. A member of the Academy of Family Mediators, Kristine opened an office for mediation services in 1999 and in addition to mediating family conflicts, she mediated discrimination cases as a certified mediator for the U.S. Postal Service and mediated cases through the Dispute Settlement Center. Kristine was also an active board member for Devil's Den, part of The Nature Conservancy. Kristine's love of nature arose in part from her childhood summers on Fire Island, a tradition that she and her husband David continued with their children and grandchildren. Kristine is survived by her husband David, her children Jesse, Mika, William, Eric and Lloyd, her daughters-in-law Lisa and Linda and her grandchildren Andrea, Kate, and Sara. She is also survived by her father Robert and her brother Marc. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, donations be sent to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, 420 Jericho Turnpike, Suite 320, Jericho, New York 11753. The family will have a private memorial service to celebrate her life.
      