
        PHENIX-Dr. Philip Henry, 87. Longtime resident of the Bridgewater Retirement Community, died after a short illness on July 13, 2002 in Stanley, Virginia, where he lived with family the final months of his life. He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Gena Tenney Phenix, and two sons, Roger Branscombe Phenix, of Stony Point, New York, and Morgan Scott Phenix, of Stanley, Virginia. He also is survived by a nephew, Robert Manning Phenix, of Boston, Massachusetts, and nieces Carlota Phenix Striffler, of Fort Collins, Colorado, Laura Phenix Smith, of Tumwater, Washington, and a cousin, Marion Manning Sears, of Boise, Idaho. Philip Phenix was born on March 1, 1915, in Denver, Colorado, son of Henry Vinton and Bessie Manning Phenix. He studied Mathematical Physics at Princeton University and graduated summa cum laude in 1934, at the age of nineteen. He earned a Master's of Divinity in Theology magna cum laude from Union Theological Seminary, in New York City in 1942 and a Ph.D. in Philosophy from Columbia University in 1950. He served as Chaplain in the United States Army during World War II, lectured in Philosophy at Columbia in 1949, was Chaplain, Professor of Religion and Dean at Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota, and later was Professor of Philosophy and Education at Teachers College, Columbia University in New York, until his retirement in 1982. Dr. Phenix reached beyond the classrooms of Columbia and Carleton, spending summers teaching in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, and leading courses in the philosophy of curriculum in Spanish in Santiago and Copiapo, Chile. He traveled, studied and taught extensively in the U.S., South America, Mexico, Spain and Europe. He also taught history and western philosophy under the Amity Foundation, at Nanjing University in the People's Republic of China during 1985-86. He has served as president of the Philosophy of Education Society, was elected to the National Academy of Education in 1983 and is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and a life member of the National Education Association. An accom plished author, Philip Phenix wrote numerous articles and eight books, including Intelligible Religion, Education and the Common Good and Education and the Worship of God. His seminal work, Realms of Meaning, delineated a concise framework both of knowledge and of the process of knowing, and examined classes of disciplines for their particular conceptual dynamics. His love and understanding of knowledge, education and teaching influenced generations of teachers and education policy-makers, here and abroad. Philip and Gena Phenix moved in 1982 from New York City to the Bridgewater Retirement Community. They took part in many community activities and enterprises and were members of the Bridgewater Church of the Brethren. Phil Phenix served on Bridgewater College's Long-Range Planning Committee and received the College's Outstanding Service Award. He was cited as a man of deep religious faith, a gifted teacher and a devoted community servant. As well, he was well known for his wide-ranging walks in and around Bridgewater and Rockingham County. A memorial service will be held 11:00 A.M. Monday, July 22, 2002 at the Lantz Chapel, Bridgewater Home, in Bridgewater, Virginia. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the Bridgewater Church of the Brethren, to the Bridgewater Home, or to the Bridgewater College. For information, contact Johnson Funeral Service, Inc., Bridgewater.
      