
        ABRAHAM-Alexander. 83, on August 25, 2002, at his home in Rye, NY. Magna Cum Laude, Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Harvard College 1940, former president of Abraham & Co. Inc., former vice chairman of Lehman Brothers Inc., ex-president of the 92nd St. YMHA, archeologist, philanthropist, and loving husband and father. Mr. Abraham is survived by his children Nancy and James, his grandchildren Lauren, Antonia and Karen, his daughter-in-law Andrea, and his son-in-law Arnold Moss. A memorial service is being planned. His children and his grandchildren ask that Mr. Abraham's many friends remember him for his integrity, his generosity, his intelligence and his kindness. Contributions in his memory may be made to the 92nd St. Y, the Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, MA, and the Enterprise Foundation in New York City, NY.
        ABRAHAM-Alexander. The Board of Directors and staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the loss of esteemed Board member, Alexander Abraham. A dedicated supporter of the Y, he actively served on many committees including the Board Structure and Development Committees, the Executive Committee, the Finance and Investment Committees, and the Simon Center for Adult Life and Learning Committee. He was also instrumental in funding a major renovation of the Y's residence rooms in the early '90s, which led to the creation of the Abraham Residence Wing. The Y recently honored Mr. Abraham for his more than fifty years of service. Our hearts and prayers are with his daughter and son-in-law, Nancy and Arnold Moss, his son and daughterin-law, James and Andrea Abraham and his grandchildren Antonia, Lauren and Karen. May Mr. Abraham's generosity, wisdom and energy live on in the hearts and minds of all who were priviliged to know him. Matthew Bronfman, President Philip Milstein, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        ABRAHAM-Alexander. The Board of Directors and members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Alexander Abraham, whose many years of friendship, kindness and enthusiastic spirit will always be remembered. Beth Z. Post, President Roger H. Tulcin, Secretary
        ABRAHAM - Alexander. ''Sandy'' was our friend and family. His wisdom, kindness and generosity was inspirational. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to Jimmy, Andrea, Lauren, Karen and the Abraham family. Harriet, Sharon, Michael, Jason and Julie Strongin
      