
        WHEELER-Ira Benjamin V. On August 10, 2002, in New York City, where he lived, at the age of 81. He was the husband of Mary T. Wheeler, father of Dorothy W. Bacon and Timothy M. Wheeler. He had two granddaughters, Katharine D. Bacon and Sarah H. Bacon. He was the stepfather of Fletcher H. Bardsley, William Walker Bardsley, and Clymer D. Bardsley and step-grandfather of Austin Miller Bardsley. Four of his children by his first wife, Grace Tufts Wheeler, pre-deceased him: Ira B. Wheeler VI, Timothy D. Wheeler, Ann D. Wheeler, and Mark W. Wheeler. He also had three stepchildren from his second marriage to Elizabeth Strong Wheeler: Lawrence A. Serre, Alison E. Serre and Elizabeth Clark Logan. He graduated from Deerfield Academy in 1938 and Princeton University in 1942. He served as a lieutenant in the Coast Guard during World War II and was executive officer on an LST in the Pacific. He spent much of his working life at Celanese Corporation, where he was a Corporate Vice President when he retired in 1982. After retiring, he began two new careers. He became a consultant for numerous non-profit organizations through the National Executive Service Corps (NESC), and was recently named to its board of directors. One of his longtime clients was Literacy Partners, where he later served on the board. He also became an actor, with parts in 24 movies including The Killing Fields, Hannah and Her Sisters, and Analyze This. He sang with the Canterbury Choral Society and was a member of the Blue Hill Troupe. He was treasurer of the Princeton class of 1942. He was a strong and remarkable man who will be missed terribly by his family and his many friends. There will be a family burial service and a memorial celebration with music in the Fall. Contributions in his memory may be made to Princeton University and the Canterbury Choral Society, 2 East 90th St, NY, NY 10128.
        WHEELER - Ira. Literacy Partners mourns the passing of Ira Benjamin Wheeler, a Board Member and friend who devoted so much of his valuable time to this organization. Ira first came to Literacy Partners in 1997 as a volunteer counsultant with National Executive Service Corp (NESC), which assists nonprofit organizations with strategic planning. He became personally interested in the goal of Literacy Partners to eliminate adult illiteracy and joined the Board of Directors. Ira became chairman of Literacy Partners Long Range Planning Committee and also served on our Finance and Program committees. His contributions to Literacy Partners will positively influence this organization for years to come. He will be remembered for his extraordinary service, dedication and generosity. We offer our deepest sympathy to his wife Mary, and the entire Wheeler family. Arnold J. Schaab, Chairman of the Board Debra Lynne, President and CEO Literacy Partners Inc.
      