
        STOCK-Howard F., M.D., 65. Died August 1 after a courageous five-year battle with multiple myeloma. He was president of the Westchester Psychiatric Society, president of the Westchester Medical Society, and a fellow of the American Psychiatric Association. For eight years he was chair of the department of psychiatry of White Plains Hospital and continued on its staff until his retirement in 1998 due to his illness. He began his private practice in New York City, moving it to Scarsdale in 1972. In 2000, he was honored by the Westchester Consumer Empowerment Center in New Rochelle. A native of Pittsburgh, PA, he earned a BS from Washington and Jefferson College, an MD from Albert Einstein College of Medicine, and later served as a psychiatrist in the Army during the Vietnam War. He was a member of the Scarsdale Non-Partisan Nominating Committee, a Village Advisory Committee, and coached sports teams for his children. After retiring, he volunteered for Scarsdale Meals on Wheels. An advocate for medicine and for the rights of patients, he recognized the benefits of medical savings accounts several years ago and lobbied passionately for their adoption. In addition, he loved golf, computers, and cars. He leaves his loving wife of 38 years, Evelyn; their two caring daughters, Elisabeth Stock and Andrea Spaar; their sons-in-law, Benjamin Austin and Richard Spaar; his mother, Selma Stock; his devoted sisters, Barbara Merwitzer and Elaine Krasnick (Donald); his sister-in-law, Rachel Levy (Donald), and numerous nieces and nephews. Funeral services will be held at noon on Sunday, August 4th, at Westchester Reform Temple in Scarsdale, NY. Memorial contributions can be made in his name to the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation, New Canaan, CT., and to the International Myeloma Foundation of North Hollywood, CA.
        STOCK-Dr. Howard. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy S. Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi
      