
        WAXMAN-Rabbi Mordecai. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Rabbi Mordecai Waxman. He served with distinction and honor as spiritual leader of Temple Israel in Great Neck for more than half a century. Considered a giant for his national and international communal leadership, Rabbi Waxman assumed significant roles in numerous organizations, where his contributions to world Jewry were enormous. He was a strong supporter and loving critic of UJA-Federation. A major world Jewish figure, he was a pioneer in interfaith relations and egalitarianism for women in Judaism. A scholar, author, and renowned community advocate, Rabbi Waxman influenced the lives of generations. We extend our deepest condolences to his three sons, Rabbi Jonathan, David, Hillel, and his sister Naomi Perlman, and to their spouses and children. May his memory be a blessing. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. and CEO Erika Witover, LI Chair Stuart Tauber, LI Director
        WAXMAN-Rabbi Mordecai. The congregation, officers and members of the Board of Temple Emanuel of Great Neck mourn the passing of Rabbi Mordecai Waxman, who for 55 years was an eloquent voice in the Jewish community. He had the ability to lead and serve, knowing that neither is enough in itself. Transcending the purview of this town, he became an international figure, respected by Jews and nonJews the world over. Known for his retentive mind and depth of learning, he built upon his knowledge, offering fresh new insights that were invested with luminous meaning. He leaves a loving family, a host of adoring friends and colleagues and devoted congregants. He will be missed. Dr. Robert S. Widom, Rabbi Mandell Dalis, President
        WAXMAN - Mordecai. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Rabbi Mordecai Waxman, longtime faculty member of JTS's professional skills department and editor for five years of the journal Conservative Judaism. A member of the advisory board of JTS's forum for interfaith dialogue, the Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious and Social Studies, he was renowned for pioneering work in Jewish-Catholic relations that earned him a papal decoration in 1998. Predeceased by his wife, Ruth, he is survived by his sons, David and Hillel of Great Neck and Rabbi Jonathan of Elberon, NJ; and five grandchildren. May his memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Chairman
        WAXMAN - Mordecai. The Masorti Foundation for Conservative Judaism in Israel joins the Jewish world in mourning the passing of Rabbi Mordecai Waxman. A great friend of and true believer in the cause of an open, tolerant and traditionallybased Judaism in Israel, Rabbi Waxman was among the early visionaries and founders of the Masorti Movement. We extend wishes of comfort to his family and community. Rabbi Gordon Tucker, Chairman Rabbi Daniel Allen, President Masorti Foundation Irit Zmora, Chairman Rabbi Ehud Bandel, President Masorti Movement
        WAXMAN-Rabbi Mordecai. The World Council of Conservative Synagogues mourns the passing of its past president, Rabbi Mordecai Waxman. Rabbi Waxman led this organization with great distinction. His luminous memories will continue to inspire us in our sacred endeavors. Rabbi Alan Silverstein, Pres. Rabbi Benjamin Z. Kreitman, Rabbi of the Council Rabbi Joseph Wernik, Executive VP, Jerusalem
        WAXMAN-Rabbi Mordecai. Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of a distinguished Rabbinic personality, who led his community with intelligence and insight, pastoral care and concern. We extend our condolences to his bereaved family and to his entire congregation. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus Howard J. Wolf, President
        WAXMAN-Rabbi Mordecai. We are profoundly saddened by the loss of our dear Rabbi and friend Mordecai Waxman. His leadership and loving concern has been an inspiration for all of us for more than 40 years. Our deepest condolences to his sons and their families. Allan and Mickey Greenblatt and Family
        WAXMAN-Rabbi Mordecai. To the Dimston family, he was a treasured friend...for 48 years we have shared joyful and sad moments. To his family we wish comforting times ahead.
        WAXMAN-Rabbi Mordecai. We extend our deepest condolences to Hillel Waxman and to his family on the passing of his beloved father. Israel Feldman and Family
      