
        PILEVSKY - Fred Efraim Heshel. On August 25, 2002. Deeply beloved and devoted husband, father, brother, uncle, grandfather, greatgrandfather and friend. A Holocaust survivor living in New York since 1949, Efraim Heshel was hard working and gentle. He was strong yet compassionate, always thinking of others. His generosity was boundless. His delight was in opening his home to guests and teaching them how to lead a healthy life. He was a man who was always ''Sameach B'chelkah.'' He was a role model and the family patriarch. He will be sorely missed. Service Monday, 10 AM, ''The Riverside,'' 76th St at Amsterdam Ave.
        PILEVSKY - Fred. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of the beloved father of our devoted congregant and supporter, Sheila Levine. Heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Pres. Seymour G. Siegel, Treas.
        PILEVSKY-Fred. Hineni expresses deep felt sympathy to the Pilevsky family on the passing of their patriarch, Fred ''Efraim Heshel'' Pilevsky. Fred, with his beloved wife Paula, survived the Holocaust and built a magnificent family here in America. His life was one of dedication to righteous deeds, charity, the Jewish people and Israel. May the Almighty comfort this beautiful family among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Our sympathies to his Aishes Chayl, Paula; his son Philip, Chairman of Hineni, his wife Renee, and their wonderful children and grandchildren; his son Allen, his wife Shoshanna, and their wonderful children; and his daughter Sheila Levine, Chairperson Hinei, and her husband Jeff and their precious son. The Hineni organization will miss him immensely. He was a bulwark and a source of inspiration to us all. His memory will be forever with us. Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis Barbara Janov Rabbi Israel and Rivki Jungreis Rabbi Osher and Yaffa Jungreis Rabbi Shlomo and Chaya Sora Gertzulin Slovie and Mendy Wolff
        PILEVSKY-Fred. We remember fondly your Passover Seders. You were the true leader and patriarch. Thank you for welcoming us into your family. Janie, Robert and Todd
      