
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. On August 20, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sol Goldman. Loving mother of Allan Goldman, Diane Goldman Kemper, Amy Goldman and Jane Goldman. Cherished grandmother of Stephanie Pitel, Cindy Blotner, Robin Kemper, Steven Goldman, Tris Goldman, Sara Arno, Solina Lewis Goldman and Michael Lewis Goldman. Great grandmother of Justin, Samantha and Bennett Pitel and Sabrina and Melissa Blotner. Family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street on Wednesday 7-9 PM. Services Thursday, August 22, 2002, 10AM at Tempel Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Dearest Lillian, beloved matriarch of the Goldman family, thank you for loving us so selflessly, so completely, for so long. We have been blessed-and will continue to be so-by your warmth, wisdom, and wit; your strength, bravery, and resilience. You are our inspiration and our anchor and we are forever grateful. Love always, Allan, Dee Dee, Amy, Jane and grandchildren and great grandchildren
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. A very special grandmother and great-grandmother. We love you more than words could ever say. You have been such a wonderful example of strength and beauty. Thank you for all of your words of wisdom and sense of humor. We will miss you very much, but you will live in our hearts forever. Cindy, Mark, Melissa, Sabrina
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. With deepest sorrow we mourn the loss of our beloved mother and grandmother, the matriarch of our family. Her generous spirit, warmth and kindness extended to family, friends, and community. Our beautiful memories of her will live on in our hearts. Allan, Stephanie, Cindy, Steven & Tris
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. We deeply mourn the passing of our beloved aunt, Lillian Goldman, a wonderful woman-generous, loving and inspirational. We will miss her and always remember her style, great dignity and grace. Victoria and Lloyd Goldman and Family
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Dearest Nanny, you'll be the sun in our skies, the laughter in our wind and the love that we feel in our hearts. Never too far will you be. Steffi, Andrew, Justin, Samantha and Bennett
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The entire Lenox Hill Hospital family expresses profound sorrow at the loss of our longtime friend and benefactor, Lillian Goldman, mother of our Trustee, Jane Goldman. Lillian was a great lady with a quick wit, an independence of spirit and deep convictions about justice and fair play. We admire her devotion to her family and the causes in which she believed. Over the years, the philanthropy of Lillian and Sol Goldman, her late husband, strengthened our hospital and enhanced our ability to better serve the New York community. Lenox Hill Hospital is exceedingly grateful to the Lillian and Sol Goldman family for outstanding gifts to the Sol Goldman Blood Bank, The Sol Goldman Renal Therapy Center, and the Lillian Goldman Non-Invasive Cardiology Fund, and for support of numerous hospital programs and research. We honor the memory of Lillian Goldman, and extend our heartfelt sympathies to her children, Jane, Amy, Diane and Allan, and her entire family. James S. Marcus, Chairman, Board of Trustees Gladys George, President & CEO Allen H. Collins, MD, MPH, President, Medical Board Nicholas P. DePasquale, MD, Director Cardiology Neil L. Coplan, MD, Associate Director, Cardiology Michael F. Michelis, MD, Director, Nephrology
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. The Board of Directors and staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Lillian Goldman, whose extraordinary and generous support led to the creation of the Y's Lillian & Sol Goldman Family Center for Youth & Family. Our hearts and prayers are with her daughter and son-in-law, longstanding Board member Jane Goldman and Dr. Benjamin Lewis, daughters Amy Goldman and Diane Kemper, son Allan Goldman, and her many adored grandchildren and great - grandchildren. May beautiful memories bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Matthew Bronfman, President Philip Milstein, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. It is with deep sorrow and regret that we mourn the passing of a great woman, philanthropist & matriarch, Lillian Goldman. For more than 10 years, I had the privilege and opportunity to work closely with Lillian. She was a true visionary who accepted and gave nothing less than the best in life. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her children Allan, Amy, Diane and Jane; her grandchildren; great grand-children and the rest of her extended family. Lillian, you were a ''classy dame'' whose intellect, good humor and grace will be missed by all who knew you. Howard Gewirtz and the Partners & Staff of Anchin, Block & Anchin, LLP
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The partners and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield extend their deepest condolences to the family of our most cherished friend and client. To our senior partners, Bert and Herbert, Lillian's beloved, departed husband Sol, and their wonderful children, Allan, Jane, Deedee and Amy, you will always be part of our extended family. Lillian was truly unforgettable. Her widespread charitable endeavors will bear testament to her for many years to come. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her & benefited from her good works. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The Trustees and Staff of 13/WNET NY mourn the loss of our dear friend Lillian Goldman. Her great kindness and generosity to 13 included the creation of The Lillian Goldman Programming Endowment, which has funded many important broadcasts. Lillian's warmth, intelligence, humor and loving spirit will be sorely missed. We send our deepest sympathies to her beloved children, Amy, Jane, Diane, and Allan, her grandchildren, and great grandchildren and the entire Goldman family. William F. Baker, President 13 WNET NY
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Philanthropist. The Directors of the Parkinson's Disease Foundation extend their heartfelt sympathy and condolences to the family of Lillian Goldman. Mrs. Lillian Goldman, a long time friend and supporter of the foundation and close friend of Mrs. Black, was recently honored by the Parkinson's Disease Foundation at their annual Spring Gala. We will miss her greatly and wish her family every comfort at this time. Page Morton Black, Chair Lewis P. Rowland, M.D., Pres.
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. Bette Midler and the Trustees and staff of the New York Restoration Project mourn the passing of our wonderful friend Lillian Goldman. We will never forget Lillian's generosity and expansive spirit, which will live on forever in the public parks and gardens she helped make beautiful for the enjoyment of all New Yorkers. We offer our deepest and heartfelt sympathy to our cherished Advisory Council member Amy Goldman and to the Goldman family.
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. Our hearts reach out to comfort Allan, Diane, Amy, Jane, Ben and their families on the loss of their beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. A sister-in-law and aunt with elegant style, a love of the arts, unique insight, and an extraordinary legacy. Through the hearts of her loved ones, Lillian will achieve everlasting life. Elaine Koenigsberg Jeri and David Glaser Kim and Barry Douglas Craig and Jill Koenigsberg
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. We mourn the passing of our beloved mother and adored grandmother. During these last precious weeks in your summer home, surrounded by loving family, you showed your characteristic strength, dignity and humor. Our loss is profound and our gratitude unending for your constant love and devotion. You possessed wisdom, courage and an unequalled zest for life that will inspire us always. Jane, Ben, Solina and Michael
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The executives and staff of Solil Management mourn the loss of Lillian Goldman, esteemed wife of the late Sol Goldman, beloved mother of Allan Goldman, Diane Kemper, Amy Goldman and Jane Goldman. A woman of dignity, intelligence, and generosity, she was loved and respected by those who knew her. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Solil Management
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. Our deepest sympathy to Jane, Allan, Diane, Amy and their families. We admire Mrs. Goldman's devotion to family and her generosity to many who needed her help. We will sorely miss her warmth, kindness and sense of humor. Her friendship will always be cherished. Shelly Weinberg, Concetta Ferrari and Judy Brener
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. In memory of Lillian Goldman, an outstanding woman of valor and philanthropy. We send our condolences to our friends, Jane and Allan Goldman, & to the other members of the Goldman family. May you be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion. Ralph Herzka Meridian Capital Group LLC
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of our congregant, Lillian Goldman. We extend our deepest condolences to Jane Goldman and their families. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation mourns the passing of a devoted friend and great philanthropist. To her children, Amy, Diane, Jane, and Allan, our heartfelt condolences. Evelyn H. Lauder, Founder and Chairman Myra J. Biblowit, President
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. We are heartbroken at the loss of our dear friend and send to her family our love and sincere condolences. Mrs. Goldman possessed keen intellect and sharp wit but we will remember most her astounding generosity and caring nature. the Little family
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. Our deepest sympathy to the Goldman family on the loss of Lillian Goldman. Lillian's warmth, intelligence, generosity and humor will be greatly missed. Lillian's spirit will live with us forever. Andrea & John Stark
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Dearest friend, I will always remember the wonderful times we had together. Through your generosity, you have left this world a better place. I will miss you. My condolences to the entire family. Betsy S. Green & Family.
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. We extend our deepest sympathies to the family of Lillian Goldman. It was always very special to be with her. We will miss her warmth, intelligence and humor. Carolyn & Neil Coplan, M.D.
      