
        DAWN-Alice Rosemarie, died August 20, 2002, at home, in the arms of her loving husband, David Aronson, and at peace, after a courageous struggle with cancer. In addition to her husband David, she is survived by her sister Carolyn of Walnut Creek, CA; her brother Robert of Fayetteville, NC; her stepson Daniel and his wife Dina, of Arlington, MA., her stepmother Helga of Southampton, NY and Boca Raton, FL; and her two stepbrothers, Peter Weiden of Brooklyn, NY and Michael Weiden of Bronxville, New York. She was predeceased by her parents David Dawn and Ida Mae Dawn. Born on June 19, 1940 in Brooklyn, NY, Alice moved to Westchester County, NY where she lived until graduating from Scarsdale High School. She then attended Connecticut College for Women where she received her Bachelor of Arts Degree, followed by her Master's Degree in teaching French from Columbia University. Alice touched many people in many different ways. A noted communicator and a student of languages, Alice taught French for four decades. She was on the faculty of Adelphi Academy, Brooklyn and Friends Central School in Philadelphia, PA. During her recovery from Hodgkins Disease in 1994, Alice helped co-found the New England Coalition for Cancer Survivorship (NECCS), serving as its first president. A tireless worker Alice recognized the need that other cancer survivors had for advocacy and education. She worked passionately to achieve legislative changes as well as to educate survivors, medical professionals and the general public. Alice was a warm, outgoing, loving person who fought injustice wherever she came across it. She was a woman of great integrity-honest, straightforward, and direct. She loved life, classical music, and her family. She also loved to laugh. Passionate recycler, she was a firm believer in natural organic products and a champion of the environment. A memorial service is pending. In lieu of flowers, donations in Alice's name may be sent to the NECCS, 6 Strathmore Road, Natick, MA 01760, or the Brigham and Women's Hospital Connors Center for Women's Health, 116 Huntington Ave., Boston, Massachusetts 02116.
      