
        ASHLEY-Ted. Born August 3, 1922, died Saturday, August 24. He started his long entertainment career at age 15, as an office boy at the William Morris Agency. He was the founder of the Ashley Famous Agency and later became the Chairman of the Board and CEO of Warner Brothers, returning to New York to become the Vice Chairman of Warner Communications, Inc. The funeral will be held on Tuesday, August 27, at 11:30 AM, at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, East 81st St and Madison Ave. The family will receive visitors at the Campbell Funeral Chapel Monday, August 26, from 4 to 8 PM. Mr. Ashley is survived by his wife Page Cuddy Ashley, his daughters Fran Curtis Dubin (Brian), Diane Ashley, Kim Balin, Ba-Nhi Sinclair (Jack), his grandchildren Michael Dubin and Lia Ashley, and his brother Alfred. Donations in his name may be made to the I Have a Dream Foundation/ Ashley Project in New York City.
        ASHLEY-Ted. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts mourn the passing of Ted Ashley. A dear friend and thoughtful leader, Mr. Ashley served us as an esteemed member of the Board of Directors from 1981-1995, and as Director Emeritus since 1995. A true friend of the performing Arts, Mr. Ashley was a kind, warm, and hard working gentleman who generously gave of himself through his service to Lincoln Center. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Page, his four daughters, his two grandchildren, his brother Alfred Ashley and family. He will be deeply missed by all who knew him. Bruce Crawford, Chairman Reynold Levy, President Martin E. Segal and June Noble Larkin, Co-Chairs, Directors Emeriti Council Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts
        ASHLEY-Ted. Our loveable, big hearted, generous and wise friend has left us. He fashioned a life of imagination, creativity, invention and brilliance, distinguishing himself in the worlds of entertainment and philanthropy. Ted truly had a soul and for those of us with whom he shared his feelings and insights, we were enriched by his friendship. And boy, could he tell stories and make you laugh! We loved him. Betty and Bill Ruder
        ASHLEY-Ted. Ted rose from a poor family in East New York to become a giant in the entertainment world; the nation's top talent agent, and the longtime chairman of Warner Bros who restored this studio to its major role in the film world. Ted was a mentor and friend to many, and above all, a great human being. We will miss him greatly. Our sympathies to Page, his brother Al, his children and grandchildren. Dottie and Marty Payson
        ASHLEY-Ted. The Board of Directors and staff of Public Agenda mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Ted Ashley. His wise advice and patient guidance has permeated our work over Public Agenda's lifetime and we will miss him dearly. We extend our condolences to his wife and family.
      