
        KIMMEL-Arnold. Of Lakeville, Connecticut, passed away on July 30, 2002 at the age of 76. He leaves his wife Norma, his daughter, Lisa Kimmel White, his son Henry W. Kimmel, his daughter-inlaw, Barbara, and five grandchildren. Arnold was the youngest of four brothers and was predeceased by Seymour & Edward M. Kimmel. He is survived by his brother, Martin S. Kimmel and Martin's wife, Helen. A graduate of Ohio State University and New York University Law School, he pursued a successful career in real estate management. Arnold Kimmel faced medical adversities for 23 years with unparalleled dignity and courage. His humour was both a gift and an art that brought joy to all who knew him. He is deeply loved by his family, friends and colleagues and will always live on in our hearts. A gravesite ceremony will be held at the Salisbury Cemetery at 11:00 on August 1st in Salisbury, CT. A memorial service will be held in New York city later in the year. In lieu of flowers, a contribution can be made to the New York University Medical Center, attention Dr. Anthony Grieco, 530 First Avenue, New York City.
        KIMMEL-Arnold. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Arnold Kimmel, beloved brother of Martin Kimmel, a dear friend of UJA-Federation. Arnold was his brother's best friend and cherished business partner. Martin Kimmel and his wife, Helen, have expressed their devotion to the Jewish community in countless ways, especially through their exceptional generosity and selfless leadership. In 1996, UJA-Federation honored Martin, a board member and past chair of UJA-Federation's Real Estate Division, for his philanthropy and professional accomplish ments. We extend our deepest sympathies to Martin and his wife, Helen; to Arnold's wife, Norma; to Arnold's children, Lisa and Henry; and to the entire Kimmel family. May all who benefited from Arnold's kindess be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. and CEO
        KIMMEL-Arnold. Beloved friend. Keep them laughing in the great beyond. Our families' hearts are with Norma, Lisa, Hank, Barbara, Joshua, Justin, Lois, Joey and Georgia. Ruth & Sam Perelson The Perelson Gross & Adwar Families
        KIMMEL-Arnold. We will greatly miss our dear friend whose elegance, perception and sense of humor, while bravely dealing with the long term effects of cancer, are an inspiration to all. Lisk and Elizabeth Wyckoff and family.
        KIMMEL-Arnold. We will miss terribly the wonderful humor and marvelous spirit of Arnold Kimmel. Our heartfelt condolences to Norma and the children and to our partner, Martin Kimmel. Shirley and Milton Cooper
      