
        LEYDEN-Arthur F. Jr, 74. Of Little Egg Harbor Township, died Monday at home. He was born in Woodhaven, NY, resided in Wayne, NJ, moving to Little Egg Harbor in 1991. He graduated from Seton Hall University in 1950 with a BS in Chemistry. Mr. Leyden retired from Pfizer Inc, in 1991, after 40 years of service as an executive in various sales and business development positions. Mr. Leyden was a member of the 50th Armored Division (NJ) serving in the 102nd Armored Calvary Regiment, Newark. He was past president of The Immaculate Heart of Mary school board, Wayne, and its home and school association. Also a member of the Neumann Prep Parents Association. Mr. Leyden was a member of the Board of Directors of The Drug Chemical and Allied Trade Association and The Calorie Control Council. An accomplished singer, he was a member of the glee club of The Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, NYC. He also served as president of the group which was founded by Victor Herbert. He was frequently a soloist when the glee club performed at Town Hall, Lincoln Center, Sheraton Center and elsewhere. He was a communicant of St. Theresa's RC Church, Tuckerton and congregational song leader at St. Michael's in Little Egg Harbor. He was a member of The Island Singers, Ship Bottom, NJ. Mr. Leyden was predeceased by his wife, Regina A. (Power) in 2000. He is survived by his sons, Arthur F. III, Esquire, of Toms River, NJ; Gregory P. of San Diego, CA; Stephen A. of Oak Ridge, NJ; daughters, Regina A. Jasinski, Whippany, NJ; Mary E. Garbarino, Cartaret, NJ; Cecilia A, NYC; and Therese M. Potter of Wayne, NJ; brothers, Thomas P. of Westport, CT; and Lawrence G. of Bridgeport, CT and 13 grandchildren. Friends may call Thursday August 8, from 2-4 and 7-9 PM at Wood Funeral Home, Tuckerton, NJ, and after 8:30 am, Friday. A funeral mass will be said at St. Theresa's Church, Tuckerton, 9:30 AM. Burial will be in St. Teresa's Cemetery, Summit, NJ. Memorial contributions to: St. Theresa's Building Fund or Island Singers, PO Box 251.
        LEYDEN-Arthur F., Jr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Arthur F. Leyden, Jr., a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, President Henry F. White, Jr. Historian
      