
        BEVANS-Margaret S., M.D. A longtime resident of New York City and seasonal resident of Naples, FL and Centerville, MA. Died August 3, 2002 at Cape Cod Hospital at the age of 91. Dr. Bevans was born October 24, 1910 in Flushing, NY. She graduated from Flushing High School, from Trinity College in Washington, DC with a BA and from the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University in 1935 with an M.D. specializing in Pathology. Dr. Bevans was highly respected by her peers in New York's medical profession during her four decades of service. She served her internship at Bellevue Hospital, followed by posts at New York University (Assistant in Pathology), Goldwater Memorial Hospital (Pathologist), Columbia University (Assistant and Associate Professor of Pathology), Research Fellow, Public Health Research Institute, City of New York, and Director of Laboratories at Midtown Hospital, the New York Infirmary and Beekman Downtown Hospital to name a few. Dr. Bevans was a Fellow of the College of American Pathologists and a member of the American Medical Association, the New York State and County Medical Societies, the International Academy of Pathology, the New York Academy of Medicine, the New York Pathological Society. From 1942-1960 she co-authored and published over 40 research studies related principally to the effects of medication on arteriosclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis in animals. Dr. Bevans was formerly married to the late Dr. David Lyall from whom she was divorced. Dr. Bevans held a lifelong interest in tennis and was formerly an active participant at the West Side Tennis Club, Forest Hills, NY, and at the time of her death, she was a Fifty-Year Honorary Member of the Club. She was also an Associate Member of the Hyannis Yacht Club. She was an accomplished bridge player and a world traveler. She particularly enjoyed crossword puzzles and her many, many close and adoring friends. She will be greatly missed. There are no immediate family survivors. The burial will be private. A memorial service will be held at a later date, to be announced. Memorial donations may be made in her honor to the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University Medical Education Fund.
      