
        KONECKY-Nathan ''Nate''. Information technology pioneer. Long time resident of Collingswood, NJ and for the last three years Moorestown, NJ passed away August 26, 2002 after a battle with pancreatic cancer. He was 59 years old. Although Mr. Konecky was raised in New York City, he relocated to the Delaware Valley in 1963 and made it his home after he graduated with a BS in Mathematics from Clarkson University, Potsdam, NY. Nathan Konecky was a pioneer in the computer software and services business. After graduation he began his career working as a Programmer for Sperry Univac (Unisys). In 1968 he founded National System Analysts, Inc. (NSA) and was its CEO/President for all of its years in business. NSA provided systems analysis and programming services to the computer departments of major local companies. By the early 1980's NSA began to be known as ARMS, Inc. (ARMS). In 1996 ARMS was sold to IMI, a subsidiary of Olsen. But Nate was not finished. He carved out eight people from the sale of ARMS, added some family members and founded a new company, Acsis, Inc. (Acsis). It was his idea to run a small family business. But things didn't work out that simple. Acsis specializes in automated data collection and supply chain solutions that interface with SAP, the largest provider of integrated global computer systems. As a ''best of breed'' provider, Acsis has had tremendous success. Today, six years after its founding, Acsis employs 85 people and its software is installed at over 250 sites around the world. Nathan Konecky put together a fantastic management team and Acsis will continue to grow and flourish. Mr. Konecky was well known in the computer industry. He had been very active in ITAA (Information Technology Association of America) serving as the President of the Professional Services Sector for four years and serving on the organization's Board of Directors for eight years. Nathan has also been very active with his alma mater, Clarkson University. At Clarkson Nate had served on the School of Business Leadership Council for 12 years, had run ARMS U, a company run education program on campus, for six years, had been an Executive Lecturer and had supported the University with funding since graduating. In 1998 Nathan was awarded Clarkson's most prestigious alumni award, the Golden Knight. This award is presented to alumni who have distinguished themselves by service to their alma mater and have demonstrated outstanding career achievement, Mr. Konecky was also a 2001 finalist for Ernst & Young's Entrepreneur of the Year. Although Nathan's early background was in the technical disciplines, his forte had become leadership, sales and strategic vision. He is survived by his ''soul mate'', loving wife and life partner, Judith L. (Green Condon) Konecky. Other surviving family members include their children: Debbie and Vince Freeman, Aaron and Maureen Konecky, and Erika Wicker; their six grandchildren: David Meyers, Heather Denver, Sarah and Alexa Wicker, Shawna and Kaitlin Freeman and great-grandson Adam; their siblings: Sondra and Leon Einhorn, Stan and Rena Konecky and Michael and Cathy Graham; and the rest of their blood and extended family. Relatives, friends and business relationships are invited to call Thursday beginning at 10:30am at Platt Memorial Chapels, Inc. 2001 Berlin Rd. Cherry Hill, NJ where funeral services will begin at 11:00am. Interment will follow at Locustwood Memorial Park in Cherry Hill. The family requests, in lieu of flowers, that donations be made in Mr. Konecky's name for medical research in the disciplines of pancreatic cancer, cancer in general, diabetes, multiple sclerosis (MS) or any other worthy medical research group.
      