
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Dearest Lillian, beloved matriarch of the Goldman family, thank you for loving us so selflessly, so completely, for so long. We have been blessed-and will continue to be so-by your warmth, wisdom, and wit; your strength, bravery, and resilience. You are our inspiration and our anchor and we are forever grateful. Love always, Allan, Dee Dee, Amy, Jane and grandchildren and great grandchildren
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. With compassion, insight, magnanimity, elegance, and grace, you courageously confronted life's challenges and joyfully savored life's gifts with gratitude. The pinnacle of loving kindness, you embraced us unfailingly and exemplified the ways of righteousness. Your legacy will linger as your spirit soars. Love, Diane and Robin
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. We deeply mourn the passing of our beloved aunt, Lillian Goldman, a wonderful woman-generous, loving and inspirational. We will miss her and always remember her style, great dignity and grace. Victoria and Lloyd Goldman and Family
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The partners and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield extend their deepest condolences to the family of our most cherished friend and client. To our senior partners, Bert and Herbert, Lillian's beloved, departed husband Sol, and their wonderful children, Allan, Jane, Deedee and Amy, you will always be part of our extended family. Lillian was truly unforgettable. Her widespread charitable endeavors will bear testament to her for many years to come. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her & benefited from her good works. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The partners and associates of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett are deeply saddened by the passing of Lillian Goldman. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Lillian's children, Jane, Allan, Amy and Diane and the entire Goldman family.
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Dearest friend, I will always remember the wonderful times we had together. Through your generosity, you have left this world a better place. I will miss you. My condolences to the entire family. Betsy S. Green & Family.
      