
        GOURAUD-Jackson S., Colonel Jackson S. Gouraud (ret.) died August 17, 2002. He was 83 years old. Jackson Gouraud was born on September 7, 1918 to Powers St. George Gouraud & Irma Schlesinger Hunt in New York City. He graduated from Townsend Harris and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He also lectured at Yale University on nuclear proliferation. During W.W. II, Mr. Gouraud enlisted in the United States Army. He survived a plane crash in the jungles of British Guiana and later fought as a combat company Commander in the Battle of the Bulge. After the war, he served as Senior Officer for Sub-Sahara Africa. He retired from military service as a full Colonel. He was awarded the Legion of Merit, Purple Heart, Combat Infantry Badge and Bronze Star. He joined Pfizer Corp. in 1953, where he launched the Veterinary and Animal Health Division whose annual revenue now exceeds $3 billion. Col. Gouraud co-founded the first marketing consulting firm in the U.S. in 1960. Among his marketing achievements, included launching Valium for Roche, introducing split-run advertising and creating the science of persuasion. Gouraud joind the Department of Energy during the Carter administration as Deputy Under-Secretary. He was responsible for the commercialization of all alternative energy sources. He subsequently became Chairman and President of the Solar Energy Industries and Association. He took Energy Clinic Corporation public and was Chairman of Servamatic Systems, then the largest solar energy company. Col. Gouraud was the seventh generation to serve in the American military and was also a member of the Sons of the American Revolution. He was very proud of many of his ancestors including his greatgrandfather George Snow who co-founded the Herald Tribune with Horace Greeley. Gouraud's grandfather, George Edward Gouraud, received the Congressional Medal of Honor for heroism in the Civil War at the Battle of Honey Hill South Carolina. Jackson met Sheila M. McCowan in British Guiana in 1941. They were married on January 31, 1942. She preceeded him in death in October 1994. In 1996, he married Betty Upham Buffum, who survives him. He is also survived by his daughter Meg, son George, daughter-in-law Tracey and grandsons Michael Briley and Charles and Steven Gouraud. He will be buried in Arlington National Cemetery. Funeral arrangements are pending.
      