
        SEIDENBERG-Paul. On August 1, 2002 at his home in Mamaroneck. He was 72. Loving husband of Barbara (nee Balamut). Cherished father of David Seidenberg and Wendy Seguljic. Dear grandfather of Ryan, Ben, Jeremy and Emma. Funeral Service today Friday 12 noon at Westchester Jewish Center, Palmer and Rockland Avenues, Mamaroneck. Interment at Riversville Cemetery. For more information www.zionmemorialchapel .com, 914-381-1809.
        SEIDENBERG-Paul. The Rogosin Institute Board of Directors and Staff Members mourn the loss of Paul Seidenberg. Paul and his wife, Barbara, have been devoted benefactors and friends of The Institute for over 30 years. Paul served on The Institute's Board for 13 years, including terms as Vice Chair and Chair. His leadership and care and compassion for others were exemplary. We will miss him sorely as a friend and as a colleague. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire family.
        SEIDENBERG - Paul. Our friendship began in 1980. Through the years we shared good times together, travel, bridge, shows, concerts, meals and golf right through last Wednesday. Your warmth, knowledge and humor were always present as was your great love for Barbara, Wendy, Jim, David and your beautiful grandchildren. Paul, how do we stand? You stand tall. We love you and miss you. The Melchner Family
        SEIDENBERG - Paul. The Board of Governors, membership and staff of Hampshire Country Club are shocked and deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our President, Paul Seidenberg. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife, Barbara, and to all his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors
        SEIDENBERG-Paul. Paul, we will miss you; but we will never forget the uncompromising love and commitment you brought to our friendship. Our thoughts and wishes are with Barbara, Wendy, Jim and David, and the rest of the Seidenberg family. Mary Ann and Arthur
        SEIDENBERG-Paul. A tireless worker, a wonderful friend. He will be sorely missed. Sylvan League
        SEIDENBERG - Paul. Our dear friend, always in our hearts, we will miss you. Bev and Irv
      