
        CAPLAN-Marilyn Gail. On August 5, 2002. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Survived by her husband, Dr. Ronald Caplan, her daughter Randy Perskin, son Gordon Caplan and three grandchildren. Her mother Sylvia Laderberg, her sister Iris Brookman. Memorial service will be Wednesday 10AM at Central Synagogue, 625 Lexington Avenue, NYC. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to The NYU Medical Center-Faculty & Friends Campaign, Attention Development Office, 1 Park Avenue, NY, NY 10016.
        CAPLAN-Marilyn. Marilyn died in peace after a long, courageous, dignified battle. She quietly passed away, aware of the love and support of her family and friends. She never complained, and exhibited incredible strength and spirit. We're all going to miss her humor, warmth and kindness. Our memory of Marilyn will always be a part of our lives. Our condolences to Ron, Randy, Michael, Zachary, Thomas, Gordon, Amy and Rachel. ''As long as the rivers shall run down to the sea, or shadows touch the mountain slopes or stars graze in the vault of heaven, so long shall your honor, your name, your praises endure.'' Virgil. The Fogg Family
        CAPLAN-Marilyn. We shall deeply miss our beloved and beautiful friend who fought so courageously the hardest battle of life. Our heart goes out to her children and grandchildren and to our dearest friend, her husband, Dr. Ronald Caplan, who has given us and so many others blessed mitzvahs. Wendy and Hillel Black
        CAPLAN-Marilyn. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Marilyn Caplan. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, Pres.
        CAPLAN-Marilyn. Her remarkable strength and spirit taught us all the meaning of dignity and courage-and throughout it all, she made us laugh. We will all miss her very much. Judy, Jordan, Jonathan Liz, and Sydney
        CAPLAN-Marilyn. Marilyn taught us so much about living. We are grateful beyond words for the years of friendship she gave us. Our deepest sympathy for Ron and all the family. Sara and Richard Koffman
      