
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. On August 20, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sol Goldman. Loving mother of Allan Goldman, Diane Goldman Kemper, Amy Goldman and Jane Goldman. Cherished grandmother of Stephanie Pittel, Cindy Blotner, Robin Kemper, Steven Goldman, Tris Goldman, Sara Arno, Solina Lewis Goldman and Michael Lewis Goldman. Great grandmother of Justin, Samantha and Bennett Pittel and Sabrina and Melissa Blotner. Family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street on Wednesday 7-9 PM. Services Thursday, August 22, 2002, 10AM at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Dearest Lillian, beloved matriarch of the Goldman family, thank you for loving us so selflessly, so completely, for so long. We have been blessed-and will continue to be so-by your warmth, wisdom, and wit; your strength, bravery, and resilience. You are our inspiration and our anchor and we are forever grateful. Love always, Allan, Dee Dee, Amy, Jane and grandchildren and great grandchildren
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. With compassion, insight, magnanimity, elegance, and grace, you courageously confronted life's challenges and joyfully savored life's gifts with gratitude. The pinnacle of loving kindness, you embraced us unfailingly and exemplified the ways of righteousness. Your legacy will linger as your spirit soars. Love, Diane and Robin
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. With deepest sorrow we mourn the loss of our beloved mother and grandmother, the matriarch of our family. Her generous spirit, warmth and kindness extended to family, friends, and community. Our beautiful memories of her will live on in our hearts. Allan, Stephanie, Cindy, Steven & Tris
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Our entire family deeply mourns the sudden loss of Lillian. For decades, she touched the lives of all of us with her love and graciousness. She was a woman of incredible strength, wit and style. Harriet and David Goldman, Barbara and Wayne Prigoff, Carol and Andrew Machover, Ellen and David Horowitz
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. We deeply mourn the passing of our beloved aunt, Lillian Goldman, a wonderful woman-generous, loving and inspirational. We will miss her and always remember her style, great dignity and grace. Victoria and Lloyd Goldman and Family
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Dearest Nanny, you'll be the sun in our skies, the laughter in our wind and the love that we feel in our hearts. Never too far will you be. Steffi, Andrew, Justin, Samantha and Bennett
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Aunt Lillian, gracious, strong, elegant lady of many talents. We will miss your wit & joie de vivre. Dorian and Marvin, Katja and Michael, and children
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Lillian Goldman, a cherished friend who expressed a dedication to improving the lives of those less fortunate through her extraordinary generosity. Mrs. Goldman and her late husband, Sol, were philanthropic giants, deeply devoted to Jewish and humanitarian causes. Their unwavering support of UJAFederation enabled many of our beneficiary agencies to expand, thrive, and touch the lives of many New Yorkers. The Sol Goldman YM-YWHA of The Educational Alliance, a UJA-Federation beneficiary agency, is a lasting tribute to their countless contributions. Mrs. Goldman's dedicated efforts on behalf of education, particulary for women and the underprivileged; the cultural arts; and health research will be felt for generations to come. Mrs. Goldman's extraordinary legacy lives on in the continuing efforts of her children. Her daughter, Jane Goldman Lewis, and her son, Allan, are leaders in the Jewish community. Jane's philanthropic spirit lends tremendous support to many of the socialservice programs provided by our agencies. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Goldman's children, Allan, Diane, Amy, and Jane; to her grandchildren and to her great-grandchildren; & to the entire Goldman family. May her memory be a blessing. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The Offices and staff of Appraisers & Planners, Inc. extend their heartfelt sympathy to the family of Lillian Goldman; to Allan, Jane, Diane and Amy, and their children. Their profound personal loss is shared by the countless number of benefactors of her kindness, generosity and charity for so many years. She was a highly respected, gracious lady, possessed of great strength, wisdom, wit and spirit who made an immeasurable contribution to the business, professional, cultural, medical and academic communities of New York and beyond. Her presence will be sorely missed by all of us privileged to know her and her family, and to serve them professionally over the years. James L. Levy, President
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The Alzheimer's Association family deeply mourns the passing of our friend and benefactor, Mrs. Lillian Goldman. We extend heartfelt sympathies to her daughter Amy Goldman and the entire Goldman family. Lillian has graced our Association with her interest, passion and generosity. Her extraordinary commitment to bettering the lives of families living with Alzheimer's disease, through research, has benefited and inspired many. We are profoundly grateful to have known and worked with her. Alzheimer's Association National Board of Directors The N.Y. Rita Hayworth Gala Steering Committee and The Zenith Fellow Members
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. The Trustees, Officers and staff of the Educational Alliance mourn the passing of Lillian Goldman whose family continues to play an active and supportive role in our organization. Our Y on 14th Street is named after her husband Sol. Her children were the initial major supporters of the Y's revitalization. Her niece Victoria Goldman and nephew Marvin Israelow are Board Vice Presidents. The Goldman family philanthropy continues to support the Alliance's programs and services. We offer our sincere condolences to her children, grandchildren, nieces, nephews and extended family. Richard A. Cantor, President Robin Bernstein, Exec. Dir.
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The partners and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield extend their deepest condolences to the family of our most cherished friend and client. To our senior partners, Bert and Herbert, Lillian's beloved, departed husband Sol, and their wonderful children, Allan, Jane, Deedee and Amy, you will always be part of our extended family. Lillian was truly unforgettable. Her widespread charitable endeavors will bear testament to her for many years to come. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her & benefited from her good works. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. The Board, staff, and members of the New York City Chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society mourn the loss of a generous friend and ally in the fight against MS. Her philanthropic commitment led to the creation of the Lillian Goldman Endowment to advance the study and treatment of the cognitive, affective and psychological symptoms of MS, which will greatly accelerate our understanding of and ability to treat MS. We extend heartfelt sympathy to our dedicated Trustee, Robin Kemper, and the entire Goldman family whose extraordinary philanthropy benefits so many.
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. The Board of Directors and staff of Lighthouse International mourn the loss of Lillian Goldman, a longtime friend and supporter of our organization. Her generosity over the years has enhanced The Lighthouse Music School and our Child Development Center, and continues to further our mission of helping people of all ages overcome the challenges of vision impairment. We extend our sincere condolences to her son, Allan, and to her entire family. William B. Follett, Chairman, Board of Directors Barbara Silverstone, DSW, President and CEO Lighthouse International
        GOLDMAN - Lillian, The Dean and Faculty of Yale Law School mark with profound sadness the passing of our longtime friend and generous benefactor, Lillian Goldman. She will be warmly remembered for her devotion to Yale Law School and her support of its students through scholarships and through the revitalization of our magnificent law library, which now bears her name. It stands as a testament to her love of knowledge and learning. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Anthony T. Kronman Dean Yale Law School
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The Board, staff and friends of The New York Botanical Garden are saddened by the passing of Lillian Goldman, mother of our esteemed Board member Amy. Lillian's longstanding and enthusiastic support of children's education and horticulture typifies her visionary philanthropy & far-reaching contributions to the civic and cultural life of New York City. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Amy and family. Wilson Nolen, Chairman Gregory Long, President
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. Our hearts reach out to comfort Allan, Diane, Amy, Jane, Ben and their families on the loss of their beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. A sister-in-law and aunt with elegant style, a love of the arts, unique insight, and an extraordinary legacy. Through the hearts of her loved ones, Lillian will achieve everlasting life. Elaine Koenigsberg Jeri and David Glaser Kim and Barry Douglas Craig and Jill Koenigsberg
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. We mourn the passing of our beloved mother and adored grandmother. During these last precious weeks in your summer home, surrounded by loving family, you showed your characteristic strength, dignity and humor. Our loss is profound and our gratitude unending for your constant love and devotion. You possessed wisdom, courage and an unequalled zest for life that will inspire us always. Jane, Ben, Solina and Michael
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The partners and staff of Grant Thornton, LLP mourn the passing of Lillian Goldman. We have been privileged to work with her, her late husband Sol, and the entire Goldman family for over fifty years. Lillian Goldman, philanthropist, has left this world a far better place for so many people. Our sincerest and deepest sympathies to her children Allan, Diane, Jane and Amy, and to her entire family.
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The executives and staff of Solil Management mourn the loss of Lillian Goldman, esteemed wife of the late Sol Goldman, beloved mother of Allan Goldman, Diane Kemper, Amy Goldman and Jane Goldman. A woman of dignity, intelligence, and generosity, she was loved and respected by those who knew her. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Solil Management
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar ''Lillian Goldman,'' on August 20, 2002. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Services will be held August 22 at 10AM at Temple Emanuel, 1 East 65th Street. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Congregation Baith Israel Anshei Emes (the Kane Street Synagogue) mourns the death of Lillian Goldman, its most generous benefactor and esteemed former member, and extends it sincere condolences to her daughter, member Amy Goldman, and to the entire Goldman family. Samuel H. Weintraub, Rabbi Daniel Magill, President
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Lillian Goldman, Matriarch of the Goldman family, great philanthropist, beloved mother of our devoted member Amy, Allan, Jane, and Diane Kemper. Deepest sympathy to the family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. The Board of Governors, Administration and Staff of St. Francis Hospital, The Heart Center mourn the loss of a dear friend, Lillian Goldman, whose philanthropy helped us to better serve those in need. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family.
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Our deepest sympathy to Allan, Jane, Diane, Amy and the families. Mrs. Goldman's warmth, generosity and kindness will be sorely missed by all who knew her. Danny, Esthela, Sabrina and Marcelo Sanchez
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Dearest friend, I will always remember the wonderful times we had together. Through your generosity, you have left this world a better place. I will miss you. My condolences to the entire family. Betsy S. Green & Family.
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. Anne and Guido Calabresi mourn the loss of our dear friend, Lillian Goldman and extend our heartfelt condolences to her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. Sylvia and I send our deepest sympathies to her children, Amy, Jane, Diane and Allan, her grandchildren and her greatgrandchildren. Sylvia and Lew Lubitz
        GOLDMAN - Lillian. My deepest sympathy to Jane, Allan, Diane, Amy and their families. Lillian will be missed by all she touched. Roger Stern Prudential Securities, Inc.
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. With our deepest sympathy to Allan, Jane, Diane, Amy and their families. The Malyarov Family
        GOLDMAN-Lillian. We extend our deepest sympathy to the family of Lillian Goldman. The Feil Organization
      