
        COHEN - Frances Kostick. September 17, 1903-August 24, 2002, of Palm Beach, FL. Wife of the late Louis D. Cohen. Cherished mother of Marilyn C. Davimos, Arthur G. Cohen and the late Richard M. Cohen, mother-in-law to Karen B. Cohen and Richard Davimos, and remembered lovingly by 11 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren. Frances was a kind, charming, and loving person who will be greatly missed by her family and many friends. There will be a private service for the family only.
        COHEN-Frances. Of Palm Beach, Fla. Formerly of New York. Beloved wife of the late L.D. Cohen. Mother of Arthur Cohen, Marilyn Davimos and the late Richard Cohen. Beloved grandmother. Frances will be remembered for the spark and vigor she brought to all those around her. Her championship golf, her charitable generosity and devotion to her children and grandchildren. Frances, we will miss you forever. Larry, Kimberly and Tiffany Goodman
        COHEN-Frances. Our dear Frances, your endless spirit and energy, your warmth and passion will always be in our hearts. We will celebrate your life as we hold on to your memory forever. We were fortunate to have had you as our grandmother and greatgrandmother. We love you. Cindy Martin Brett and Logan
        COHEN-Frances. Cherished member of the Cohen family. Frances lived life to the fullest. Full of family, love and the happiness of life. She always enjoyed the social and physical aspects of life including friends at Palm Beach Country Club, dancing with L.D., playing golf into her 90s. We can all rest assured she is spreading her warmth and happiness in a better place now. Love, Michael and Adam Goodman
        COHEN-Frances. A part of four generations, she was our inspiration, the light of our lives. She represented all that was strong and effected everyone she touched. Not only did she give us solace, but her wisdom and words gave us strength. She will be forever in our thoughts and hearts. Love, Maxine and Randy Goodman
        COHEN-Frances. It was our privilege to know Frances and be part of her life for over half a century. She was a grand dame and a unique spirit who will be deeply missed. Her passing marks the end of an era which we all remember fondly. Our deepest condolences to the entire family. The Sollar & Eisen Families
        COHEN-Frances K. Your warmth, steadfastness and friendship will be sorely missed by us. Your charm, ready smile and goodness were inspirational. We bid you farewell with a heavy heart but celebrate the long and beautiful life you led. Lovingly, Karen and Arthur
      