
        WILLNER-Blanche (nee Dornfeld). Loving and beloved wife of Dr. Albert Willner. Cherished mother of Drs. Joseph Willner and Jane Bloomgarden. Devoted mother-in-law of Drs. David Bloomgarden & Judith Wilner. The best grandmother to Noah, Zachary, and Joshua Bloomgarden and Daniel, Rachel, and Jonathan Willner. Sister of Mina Roth Dornfeld and Murray Dornfeld. We all will miss her dearly. Her goodness and generosity extended to the following charities: The Weizmann Institute of Science, New York Medical College, The Israeli Museum, The Israel Cancer Society, The Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach, The Jewish Communal Fund of NYC, Einstein Medical School, New York University, Brandeis University, Tufts University and The Juilliard School of Music. Funeral service Thursday, September 5, 2002, 11 A.M. at the Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Rd, Scarsdale, N.Y.
        WILLNER-Blanche. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a dear friend and respected member of our Society of Founders, who with her husband, Dr. Albert Willner, established a scholarship fund at our institution. To Dr. Willner and the entire family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Robert M. Beren, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        WILLNER - Blanche. The Board and Staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and the Israel Museum, Jerusalem are deeply saddened by the death of Blanche Willner, wife of our Board Member, Dr. Albert Willner. The Willners have been generous AFIM supporters in Palm Beach and New York for many years. We will miss her and extend heartfelt condolences to Al and the family. Barbara Lane President, AFIM James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Director, IM Carolyn Cohen Executive Director, AFIM
        WILLNER-Blanche. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Blanche Willner, who along with her husband Albert, was a longtime ADL supporter. We extend our condolences to Albert and the family. Glen A. Tobias, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        WILLNER-Blanche. We regret the loss of our dear friend, Blanche Willner, a wonderful woman. Our sympathy to Al and the family. Bette and Jerry Lorber
      