
        MIRKEN-Barbara, September 2, 2002. Cherished and loving wife of Alan, devoted mother of Leslie and Mitchell Rubin, and Jane and Richard Zenker; adored grandmother of Matthew Rubin, and Andrew and Scott Zenker; sister of Frances Brandt and Eileen Mack. Caring and selfless, she brought warmth and wit to everyone whose life she touched. Service Wednesday, September 4, 1PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Goddard Riverside Community Center or the Alan and Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology at Beth Israel Medical Center.
        MIRKEN-Barbara. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear and beloved friend, Barbara Mirken. Together with her devoted husband, Continuum and Beth Israel Trustee Alan Mirken, they provided extraordinary support to Beth Israel, particularly in the fields of neuroscience and cardiac care. She will forever be linked in perpetuity to Beth Israel through the naming of the Alan & Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology, and the Alan & Barbara Mirken Cardiac Surgery Intensive Care Unit, in addition to the many other programs and services that she and Alan have so generously championed. She will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved her. To Alan, their daughters Leslie and Jane, and the entire Mirken family, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Boards of Trustees, Continuum and Beth Israel Peter A. Kelly, President and CEO, Continuum Matthew E. Fink, M.D. President & CEO, Beth Israel Sidney K. Stein, M.D. President, Beth Israel Medical Board Susan B. Bressman, M.D. Chairman, Alan & Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology Robert F. Tranbaugh, M.D., Chief of Cardiothoracic Surgery
        MIRKEN-Barbara. It is with a tremendous sense of sadness that the physicians and staff of the Alan & Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology of Beth Israel Medical Center acknowledge the passing of our dear friend and devoted benefactress. Barbara was more than a cherished philanthropic supporter of our work; she took extraordinary interest in the clinical scope of our department and always challenged us to provide continually and consistently the finest care possible to all of our patients. We will greatly miss her warmth, her gentility and her friendship. To her beloved husband Alan, her family and all of her loved ones, we extend our deepest sympathies. Susan B. Bressman, M.D. Chairman, Alan & Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology
        MIRKEN-Barbara. It is with great sadness that the board and staff mourn the loss of Barbara Mirken. ''Bobby'' never shirked from her deep commitment to creating a more just world. She played an active role during her years on the board serving as chair of the nominating committee and as a strong voice on the executive committee. Bobby touched the lives of so many and in her quiet, inimitable way made an enormous contribution to our work. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to her husband, Alan, daughters, Jane & Leslie, sons-in-law, Richard & Mitchell, and the grandchildren. Mary Ellen Rudolph, Pres., Board of Directors Stephan Russo, Exec. Dir. Goddard Riverside Community Center
        MIRKEN-Barbara R. The Syracuse University family mourns the passing of a loyal alumna, generous supporter and dear friend. A career volunteer, she was instrumental through the Alan B. and Barbara Mirken Foundation of underwriting a scholarship honoring fellow alumnus, Bernie Wohl, then Executive Director of Goddard Riverside Community Center, as well as an upcoming trip to New York City for social work students to experience the origins of their field. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband and family.
        MIRKEN-Barbara. Our condolences to our dear friend and colleague, Alan Mirken, on the loss of his dearly beloved wife, Barbara Mirken. Partners and Staff Kaplan Fox & Kilsheimer
        MIRKEN - Barbara. Our thoughts and prayers are with Alan and his family and friends in this time of sadness. The Board, Neighbors and Staff
      