
        DONNELLY - Marion. A member of The New York Times Editorial Department for 17 years, who retired in 1994 for a second career as a charity volunteer, died on Wednesday, September 11th, 2002, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 71, and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was lung cancer, her son Victor Van Carpels said. Ms. Donnelly was on the original staff of New York Magazine in 1968, rising from ''a Lily Tomlin switchboard,'' as she called it, to the position of Publicity Manager. ''Before that, Mom worked for a couple of defunct publications, including Look Magazine and the New York Herald Tribune. She liked to joke about folding shops. She was one of the ones who jumped ship at New York Magazine when Rupert Murdoch bought the magazine in 1977.'' She landed at The New York Times Magazine, serving as Secretary to the Deputy Editor and later for editors in the Style and Travel sections. In retirement, she took on a number of volunteer jobs, working for the Housing Works and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Thrift Shops as well as the Museum of Modern Art and the New York Public Library. A trained hospice worker, Ms. Donnelly volunteered at the Jacob Perlow Hospice of Beth Israel Medical Center. She was honored by the Retired Community Service Society of New York, among other organizations, for her volunteer work. Her choice of service often reflected a personal loss: her second husband, Gerard E. Leys, died in 1983 of myeloma and her son, Thomas Van Carpels, died of AIDS complications in 1988. Born on March 3rd, 1931, in New York's Hell's Kitchen, Ms. Donnelly graduated from the Abbey Business Institute and attended Fordham University and the Arts Students League. She is survived by her son, Victor Van Carpels, her daughter-in-law, Margaret King, and her grandson, William Van Carpels, all of Ulster Park, NY. William's mother, Rebecca Fall, and her husband, Myron Baker, formed a special part of her family. Her wit, devotion to family and friends, and generosity of spirit will be missed by many. Friends are invited to share in a celebration of her life to be held at her home on Saturday, September 21st, from 1 to 4 PM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Save the Strays, the Jacob Perlow Hospice and Housing Works. For further information and to RSVP, please contact Joan Dworkin at 212-661-0006 or Deborah Harkins at 212-744-2109.
      