
        WINSON-Sy. Died peacefully in his sleep Saturday morning August 24th. He was 76. Sy Winson was born Seymour Tennenbaum on April 3, 1926 to Polish immigrants Frieda and Jack Treitl and grew up in the depression era south Bronx. Tennenbaum was an Ellis Island appellation. Winson was a name his halfbrothers adopted. He enlisted in the army at 17 and drove a tank through Germany during World War II. He was admitted to Harvard but instead studied aeronautical engineering at Cooper Union in the late 1940's. Sy ran a series of businesses in downtown New York, changing with growing technology, in advertising, varityping and graphic design, though his great passion and immense talent was for typesetting in the years before desktop publishing irrevocably altered that landscape. He would say, ''I was there for the beginning, the middle and for the end of typesetting.'' After a brief early marriage, Sy met and immediately fell in love with painter/scholar Abbie Franks and had three children and a series of energetic german shepherds. Sy was a dynamic and sensual man of extremes with elaborate lists of great loves and a deep hates and could articulate them at length with astounding wit and fervor. What he hated, the short list: paisley, small typeface, ornamentation, piety, neckties, conceit, liberal politicians, and the great outdoors. What he loved: his dogs, his family, office supplies, war books, styrofoam, his suburban house, A.E. Housman, his children's accomplishments, pastrami, movies at home, cooking up clever practical devices of plastic and tape, all night talk sessions, and listmaking. Sy had said in recent times, ''I've had a swell life. I had great dogs and I married the woman I wanted to.'' He is survived by his wife Abbie, two of his children, Julie Winson of Santa Fe and Suzi Winson of New York City, his granddaughter Isabel Winson-Sagan from his late son Robert Winson, brother Harold Winson, assorted nieces and nephews, and his dog Gigi. Donations in his name can be made to The Humane Society.
      