
        PADDOCK-Robert C., 71. Retired Head Counselor of Great Neck South Senior High School, died Tuesday, July 30, at his home in Shoreham, Long Island from heart failure following complications of a stroke. His family was with him at the time. Born in Auburn, New York, in 1930, the second of three children, Paddock went on to complete a BS in Teacher Education in 1952 from Springfield College, in Springfield, Massachusetts. While an undergraduate, he met Sandra Jenkins, and they married soon after his graduation. Their marriage lasted 48 wonderful years until her death from colon cancer in February, 2001. Paddock started his educational career as a high school science teacher, first in Massapequa, NY in 1958 and later in Manhasset. He joined the Great Neck School district in 1964 as a guidance counselor. Paddock went on to complete a Master's in School District Administration from CW Post in Greenvale, New York, in 1985 while working full-time for The Great Neck Schools. By 1985 Paddock was Head of Guidance for Great Neck South Senior High School. He retired from the educational field in 1992. Paddock and his late wife, Sandy, lived in Glen Cove, New York, for over 30 years. Sandy's business, the boarding kennel The Animal Inn, was relocated to Glen Cove in 1990 so the couple could be closer to her work. In the summer of 2000, Sandy retired and The Paddocks moved to Shoreham, Long Island. Mr. Paddock is survived by his son, Bruce T. Paddock, an educational writer and editor living in Lakeville, CT, his daughter, Patricia J. Paddock, a project manager for Girl Scouts of the USA living in Manhattan, and a sister, Georgia Dudley of Woodbury, CT, in addition to daughter-in-law, Arliss, son-in-law, Gerard Cariffe and many nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, September 7 from 1:30-5:30 P.M. at DiMaggio's On The Bay in Port Washington, NY. Donations may be sent to the James A. Baker Institute for Animal Health, Hungerford Hill Road, College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 14853.
      