
        GREENBERG - Jonathan. The staff and leadership of the 92nd Street Y and of its Makor/Steinhardt Center express profound grief by the death of J.J. (Jonathan Joseph) Greenberg, executive director of Jewish Life Network/Steinhardt Foundation and a founder of Makor. We extend our deepest condolences to his parents, Rabbi Yitz and Blu Greenberg, his grandmother, Sylvia Genauer, and his siblings, Moshe, Deborah, David and Goody. J.J. touched the lives of thousands of people and offered loving and caring attention to everyone he met. He lived his father's Torah, regarding every human being as having infinite value. He was a constant presence at Makor, imbuing both its programs and the very building with warmth each time he came through the door. Zichron tzadik livracha. May his memory be for a blessing. Matthew Bronfman, President Philip Milstein, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director Helaine Geismar Katz, Associate Exec. Director 92nd Street Y Sara Berman, Chair Deborah Nadel Magee, Acting Director David Gedzelman, Creative and Rabbinic Director, Makor Makor/Steinhardt Center
        GREENBERG-Jonathan J. On behalf of the entire birthright israel partnership, we mourn the tragic and untimely loss of J.J. Greenberg, son of Blu and Rabbi Irving I. Greenberg, brothers David and Moshe, sisters Deborah and Goody and their families. birthright israel felt extremely honored to have worked with J.J., a dedicated advocate of the birthright israel program and an inspiration to young Jewish adults worldwide. His warmth, vision and personal loving commitment embraced all who met him and worked with him. May the entire Greenberg family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and may J.J.'s memory be for a blessing. Charles R. Bronfman, Co-Founding Chairman, birthright israel International Michael H. Steinhardt, Co-Founding Chairman, birthright israel International Dr. Shimshon Shoshani, CEO, birthright israel International Marlene Post, Chairperson, birthright israel USA, Inc. Rabbi Sheldon Zimmerman, Executive Vice President, birthright israel USA, Inc.
        GREENBERG - J.J. The members of Blu Greenberg's Rosh Hodesh Group mourn the tragic death of her beloved son, J.J. in a bicycle accident in Israel. J.J. was an extraordinary young mandeeply devoted to his family, lovingly committed to Jewish tradition and law, social justice, and the Jewish community-and a luminous presence in many of our lives. May his memory be for a blessing. Our thoughts are with our dear friends Blu and Rabbi Irving (Yitz) Greenberg and with J.J.'s brothers and sisters at this most difficult time. Arlene Agus, Shifra Bronznick, Pamela W. Brumberg, Dianne Cohler-Esses, Rachel Cowan, Shira Dicker, Debbie Friedman Judith L. Goldstein, Amy Gottlieb, Frances Degen Horowitz, Jan Caryl Kaufman, Francine Klagsbrun, Deborah Dash Moore, Kathleen Peratis, Letty Cottin Pogrebin, Norma Rosen, Rachel Sabath-Beit Halachmi
        GREENBERG - Jonathan Joseph. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum expresses its deepest condolences to its former Chairman, Rabbi Yitz Greenberg, and his wife, Blu Greenberg, on the tragic loss of their son, J.J. Devoted to the Jewish community, to Israel, and to Holocaust remembrance, J.J.'s commitment and energy were emblematic of his own strength, vision and passion, and reflected the remarkable tradition of energetic leadership and deep involvement his parents and family have consistently brought to their work and to the Jewish community. To Yitz and Blu, and to J.J.'s brothers and sisters, we offer our heartfelt sympathies. Fred S. Zeidman, Chairman Ruth B. Mandel, Vice Chair Sara J. Bloomfield, Director
        GREENBERG - J.J. The Board, Faculty and Staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership mourn the tragic and untimely passing of J.J. Greenberg, youngest son of our beloved founder and teachers, Rabbi Irving and Blu Greenberg. J.J. was a remarkable person with great creativity, dedication and a wonderful sense of humor. In a very short time, he made enormous contributions to Jewish life which will live on into the future. May his memory be a blessing and may his family find a place of comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Thomas O. Katz, Chairman Rabbi Irwin Kula, President Donna M. Rosenthal, Executive Vice Chairman Rabbi Brad Hirschfield, Vice President
        GREENBERG - Jonathan. The Staff, Faculty and entire Membership of The Wexner Heritage Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Jonathan Greenberg, executive director of The Jewish Life Network and son of esteemed WHF Faculty Member's Rabbi Irving ''Yitz'' Greenberg, and Blue Greenberg. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to the entire Greenberg family and to their many friends around the world. May they find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Nathan Laufer, President Rabbi Herbert A. Friedman, Founding President Emeritus
        GREENBERG-Jonathan J. The Reconstructionist Rabbinical College expresses its heartfelt sorrow to Rabbi Yitz and Blu Greenberg and their family on the death of their son, J.J. Greenberg, whose creative and passionate advocacy of youth-centered Jewish education helped empower thousands of Jewish students and young adults across the country to discover their own spiritual heritage and to connect with their Jewish identity. May his memory be a blessing. Aaron Ziegelman, General Chairman Donald L. Shapiro, Chairman, Board of Governors Rabbi Dan Ehrenkrantz, President
        GREENBERG - J.J. The Board of Directors, members and staff of JOFA, the Jewish Orthodox Feminist Alliance, extend their heartfelt condolences to our beloved President, Blu Greenberg, and her husband Rabbi Irving (Yitz) Greenberg, on the sudden and tragic passing of their dear son Jonathan Joseph. Dedicated to the Jewish people, J.J. was a caring and compassionate human being, devoted friend, loving brother, doting uncle and cherished son and grandson. We reach out in love to Blu, Yitz and the entire family at this most difficult time. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.
        GREENBERG - Jonathan Joseph. Michael H. Steinhardt and Jewish Life Network/Steinhardt Foundation mourn the untimely, tragic passing of JJ Greenberg, JLN's Executive Director. We will sorely miss JJ's leadership, wisdom, compassion, friendship and humor. Our deepest condolences to his parents Rabbi Yitz and Blu Greenberg, and to his siblings Moshe and Abbie, David and Mindy, Deborah and Jonathan, Goody and Eric, as well as his grandmother Sylvia Genauer and his many nephews and nieces. May God comfort them among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.
        GREENBERG-Jonathan J. The Board of Directors and staff of Spark: Partnership for Service extend deepest sympathy to Yitz, Blu and the entire Greenberg family on the untimely death of treasured son, brother, uncle, nephew, a leader of vision, passion and true hesed. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Joseph & Harvey Meyerhoff Family Charitable Funds Joseph & Carol Reich Samberg Family Foundation Lynn Schusterman Michael & Judy Steinhardt Maggi G. Gaines Rabbi Sara Paasche-Orlow
        GREENBERG-J.J. With profound sadness, the STAR family notes the passing of J.J. Greenberg, son of Rabbi Irving and Blu Greenberg. We will sorely miss J.J., his warmth and kindness, his intellect, and his contributions to Jewish life. To the entire family, and to the Jewish Life Network family, ''May the Holy One comfort you together will all the other mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.'' Lynn Schusterman, President Edgar M. Bronfman Michael Steinhardt Rabbi Hayim Herring Executive Director
        GREENBERG-J.J. We are heartbroken over the loss of J.J. Greenberg, and share in his family's grief. May you know no more sorrow. ...In the end, I will choose a landscape mute and serene whose light consoles the heart that rests when its time comes... Natan Yonatan The Charles and Lynn Schusterman Family Fdn Lynn Schusterman, Pres Stacy Schusterman Jay Schusterman Steven Dow Sandy Cardin, Exec Dir
        GREENBERG - Jonathan Joseph. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America offers heartfelt condolences to Blu and Rabbi Yitz Greenberg on the loss of their beloved son Jonathan Joseph in the prime of his life. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Bonnie Lipton, National President Ellen Marson, Executive Director
        GREENBERG-Jonathan J. The Jewish Book Council sends its sincere condolences to Blu Greenberg, former president and longtime board member, and to her husband Rabbi Yitz Greenberg, an inspiration for our work, on the tragic passing of their beloved son Jonathan. May his memory be a blessing. Maurice S. Corson, President Carolyn Starman Hessel, Dir.
        GREENBERG-Jonathan J. The staff and editorial board of Hadassah Magazine send their deepest sympathies to Blu and Rabbi Yitz Greenberg on the loss of their beloved son, Jonathan Joseph. May the many lives he touched and the difference he made in the world always be a comfort to you.
        GREENBERG-J.J. We are profoundly saddened by the untimely death of J.J. Greenberg, there be no better friend than he. Our deepest sympathy to Blu, Yitz, and all of J.J.'s family. The Steinhardt & Berman Families
        GREENBERG - J.J. Stein hardt Management expresses its deep sorrow over the tragic loss of our friend J.J. Greenberg. Our deepest sympathy to Yitz, Blu and the entire Greenberg family. Michael Steinhardt, CEO
      