
        SILBERT-Harvey L. The American Friends of The Hebrew University (AFHU) and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend Harvey L. Silbert. An acclaimed humanitarian known for his wisdom and motivational skills, Harvey maintained a longstanding involvement in regional, national and international philanthropic causes. A highly regarded member of the Los Angeles legal community, he became active on behalf of The Hebrew University by spearheading the growth of AFHU's activities in California and throughout the West coast. Assuming a series of key leadership roles within American Friends, he served as Chairman of the Board of the Western States Region from the mid 1980s. He performed equally valuable leadership functions as the Chairman of AFHU's Board of Directors and as Deputy Chairman of the Hebrew University International Board of Governors. A tireless proponent of the University, Harvey personally brought delegations of supporters to Israel and encouraged their contributions to, and awareness of, activities in major disciplines. Harvey and Lillian became Benefactors of The Hebrew University in 1990. Their numerous and far-sighted contributions over the decades enhanced the University's physical and intellectual growth and will benefit Israel's people and humanity in general for generations to come. The Silbert's generosity led to the establishment of vital facilities on the Mt. Scopus campus, including The Harvey L. Silbert Center for Israeli Studies, a multidisciplinary think tank for eminent scholars and experts in public affairs. Harvey initiated funding for the Lillian and Harvey L. Silbert Humanities Building, a rich cultural reservoir of educational resources and the creation of the Silbert Wing at Hebrew University's Louis Boyar Building, housing the Rothberg International School. He and Lillian established the beautiful Lilliian Silbert Garden on the Mt. Scopus campus. Committed to helping the University achieve academic advances in diverse fields, he worked to establish the Avraham Harman Chair in Modern Jewish History and was the driving force behind the Harman Special Fund and the Bernard Cherrick Center for the Study of Zionism. He was a major contributor to the Sinatra International Student Center and the Streisand Building for Jewish Studies. Harvey Silbert was admired by all those who knew him, including Israel's top leaders in government, diplomacy and academia. In 1979, he received the Scopus Award for humanitarian service; the Scopus Award is American Friends' highest honor. In 1981, The Hebrew University conferred an honorary doctorate of philosophy on Harvey in recognition of his efforts to advance scholarship and human progress. At this moment of profound loss, we extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife Lillian, to the Silbert's children Lynne and Kenneth, and to their grandchildren David, Greg, Jill, and Gina. American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chairman of the Board Peter Willner, Executive Vice President American Friends of The Hebrew University Greater Los Angeles Region Richard Ziman, Chairman of the Board Peter Weil, President Martinn Mandles, Vice Chairman of the Board The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Professor Menachem Magidor, President Professor Haim Rabinowitch, Rector Yigal Arnon, Chairman of the Board of Governors
      