
        SILBERMAN-Dr. Curt C. Funeral services for Dr. Curt Silberman of West Orange, NJ will be today at 1:15pm at Temple B'nai Abraham, 300 E Northfield Ave, Livingston, NJ. For information, Bernheim Apter Kreitzman Funeral Home. Dr. Silberman, a lifelong leader of European and American Jewish communities, died September 9, 2002 at the age of 94. He was active in philanthropic activities and his private law practice until his death. Born in 1908 in Wurtzburg, Germany, Dr. Silberman practiced law there. During the 1930's, he was responsible for the saving of life and the immigration of Jews from the Wurtzburg region, as a result of extensive negotiations with the Gestapo. He was imprisoned briefly by the Nazis during this period. Married in 1937 to Else Kleemann in Wurtzberg, the couple immigrated to New Jersey in 1938 where he continued his devotion to the welfare of Jews from Europe and in his newly adopted country. While working for the Jewish Federations Family and Child Service, he attended Rutgers Law School in the evenings, and was admitted to the NJ Bar in 1947. He was subsequently admitted to practice before the US Supreme Court. During the subsequent 4 decades, he was instrumental in the founding and leadership of major Jewish organizations. He served as President of the Jewish Family Service Association of Essex County. He was a Founder of the American Federation of Jews from Central Europe, of which he was President from 1963-1986. He was a Co-Founder of the Leo Baeck Institute in NYC, the leading research institute for German Jewry. He continued his leadership as Founder and President of the Jewish Philanthropic Fund. He was a Member and Trustee of Temple B'nai Abraham, Livingston, NJ. His stature as a leader of these communities was recognized by Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower and Lyndon B. Johnson, during whose administration Dr. and Else Silberman were guests at White House state dinners. As WWII was ending, and refugees were dispersed around the globe, he was instrumental in pursuing restitution rights for the victims of Nazi aggression, working not only with the post - WWII German government, but with the US government. In his private international law practice, he represented European and German companies and foundations, both here and globally, travelling frequently on their behalf. A crowning achievement was the establishment, by Dr. Silberman and his wife Else, of a program of Jewish and Holocaust studies at Middlebury College, for which he endowed a Chair, and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in 1995.
        SILBERMAN-Curt C. The Officers and Trustees of the Leo Baeck Institute, New York are deeply saddened by the loss of our great friend Curt Silberman. From the beginning, he was totally devoted to the preservation of our German-Jewish heritage, and offered good guidance at every meaningful moment in our institutional history. We will miss his wisdom, grateful for all the years we had it. Ismar Schorsch President, LBI Carol Kahn Strauss Executive Director
      