
        GREENBERG - J.J. The Board, Faculty and Staff of the Pardes Institute of Jewish Studies in Jerusalem and the American Pardes Foundation, Inc. mourn the tragic and untimely passing of J.J. Greenberg, son of our dear friends and distinguished faculty members Yitz and Blu Greenberg, brother-in-law of our esteemed Board member Abbie Gottesman Greenberg and brother of Moshe Greenberg, David and Mindy Greenberg, Deborah and Jonathan Greenberg, Goody and Eric Will, and grandson of Sylvia Genauer. May J.J.'s memory be a blessing and may the entire Greenberg family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ruth Cummings Sorenson, Chair Rabbi Daniel Landes, Director and Rosh Yeshiva Pardes Institute Mark Levenfus, President Jayne Rosengarten, Executive Director American Pardes Foundation
        GREENBERG - Jonathan. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the passing of Jonathan J. Greenberg, an outstanding young man, who expressed so many of our hopes for the Jewish communal future. We extend our deepest sympathies to his parents, Rabbi Yitz and Blu Greenberg, prominent leaders who have been so inspirational in their efforts to advance Jewish values and teachings, and to the entire Greenberg family. May his memory be a blessing for the Jewish people, which has tragically lost one of its noblest sons. Harold Tanner, President David Harris, Exec Director Lynn Kroll, Chair, Contemporary Jewish Life Steven Bayme, Director of Contemporary Jewish Life
        GREENBERG - Jonathan. The Staff, Faculty and entire membership of the Wexner Heritage Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Jonathan Greenberg, executive director of the Jewish Life Network and son of esteemed WHF faculty members Rabbi Irving ''Yitz'' Greenberg and Blu Greenberg. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to the entire Greenberg family and to their many friends around the world. May they find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Nathan Laufer, President Rabbi Herbert A. Friedman, Founding President Emeritus
        GREENBERG-J.J. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, record with profound sorrow the sudden and tragic death of J.J. Greenberg, beloved son of Rabbi Yitz and Blu Greenberg. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. May they find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, Pres. Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritus Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
        GREENBERG-J.J. Israel Policy Forum joins the entire Jewish community in remembering J.J. Greenberg, whose sweet and honest soul transcended barriers and built bridges. May his memory inspire others for generations to come. Jack Bendheim, Chair Judy Stern Peck, President Marvin Lender, Exec. Committee Chair Debra Wasserman, Exec. Director Jonathan Jacoby, Founding Exec. Dir. Stephen P. Cohen, Nat'l Scholar Steven Spiegel, Nat'l Scholar
        GREENBERG-J.J. The Partnership for Excellence in Jewish Education (PEJE) mourns the untimely passing of our dear friend and colleague, J.J. Greenberg. With his commitment to Jewish literacy and with his vision, dedication and integrity, he helped created PEJE. We will sorely miss him. We extend condolences to his entire family, may they find comfort among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Michael Steinhardt, Chair Rabbi Joshua Elkin, Executive Director
        GREENBERG-J.J. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York and its affiliate the Skirball Center for Adult Jewish Learning, mourn the tragic loss of J.J. Greenberg, beloved son of our friends and teachers, Rabbi Irving and Blu Greenberg. May the Holy One give them comfort and strength among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David M. Posner Rabbi Amy B. Ehrlich Rabbi Eric S. Wittstein Rabbi Nadia E. Gold Rabbi Leon A. Morris
        GREENBERG - J.J. The Board of Trustees and the entire Abraham Joshua Heschel School community are deeply saddened by the passing of J.J. Greenberg, beloved son of Rabbi Yitz and Blu Greenberg. We extend our heartfelt sympathy at this untimely and tragic loss to the entire Greenberg family. Shira Nadich Levin, President Roanna Shorofsky, Head of School
        GREENBERG-Jonathan J. American Jewish World Service mourns the tragic loss of J.J., a young man devoted to Judaism, to people, to learning and to service, who gave passionately to all his causes. We extend our deepest sympathies to Yitz, a member of our Advisory Board, Blu and their entire family. Ruth Messinger, President Martin Friedman, Chair
        GREENBERG-JJ. You were the light behind Lights In Action, a mentor and a beloved friend. May your family find comfort and may we all keep your smiling spirit alive by laughing and loving, teaching and doing acts of tzedakah. Rivky, Dasee, Shira, Karen, Jill, Beth, Beth, Ilana, Sara, Tali, Alex, Kent and the LIA board
        GREENBERG - J.J. The Board of Directors and Staff of American Friends of Livnot U'Lehibanot express our deep sorrow and heartfelt sympathy to Rabbi Yitz and Blu Greenberg and their entire family. J.J.'s warmth and commitment to the Jewish community will be sorely missed.
        GREENBERG-J.J. To Blu and Yitz, Sylvia and his siblings, we grieve with you for our beloved cousin, J.J. Shelly Orringer Sherr
        GREENBURG - J.J., The American Jewish Committee, NY Chapter Women's Dialogue Group extend our deepest sympathy to Blu and Rabbi Yitz Greenburg, and mourn with them the tragic loss of their beloved son J.J. Mimi Alperin, Co-Chair Henna White, Co-Chair, Diane Steinman, NY Chapter Director
      