
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. DadYou are, and will always be, our super hero. We love you and will miss you forever. Love, Amanda, Michael, Alexa and Max
        SILVERMAN - Jeffrey S. Much loved father of Amanda and Michael Feinsod, Wendy and Jason Silverman. Proud grandfather of Alexa and Max Feinsod and Samantha Silverman. We grieve with you as you mourn the loss of your dear father. June and Donald Feinsod and Missy and Jack Sheinker
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. The Board of Directors and employees of BrandPartners Group, Inc. Willey Brothers, Inc. and iMapData, Inc. deeply mourn the passing of our Chairman and Chief Executive officer Jeffrey S. Silverman. We will cherish always the lessons learned from our leader and trusted friend whose commitment, vision and determination have provided a solid foundation for our future. We will miss you in our journey. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Lisa, Jack, Lucy and the entire family and all who had the good fortune to know Jeffrey.
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The Directors of the Palm Beach County Law Enforcement Foundation deeply mourn the passing of its distinguished Vice Chairman, Jeffrey Silverman. Law enforcement has lost an enthusiastic and generous supporter. We, his fellow Directors, have lost a great friend. Our hearts and sympathies go out to his wonderful family. Jeffrey, we will always love you. Rest in peace. Richard E. Winter, M.D., Chairman Neil Hirsch, Deputy Chairman
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. The New York Administrative Committee of Fleet National Bank mourns the passing of our colleague and friend, Jeffrey S. Silverman. We will miss his support and leadership. Our sympathies to Lisa and his family.
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The employees of Violy, Byorum & Partners deeply mourn the passing of Jeffrey Silverman, a valued confidant and trusted friend. We miss him already. Violy, Byorum & Partners
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. You were a great friend, your thoughtfulness, your generosity, a loving husband and father to your children. We will miss you. Jane and Dick Silverman
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The sweetest man, best pal. There will always be an empty spot in our hearts. Ken Aretsky & Diana Lyne
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The Rudin family deeply mourns the loss of our great friend.
      