
        BROWN-Fred E. 89, formerly of New York City and Morristown, N.J., passed away on Friday, August 30, 2002 at home in Lake Placid, NY. Born in Muskogee, Oklahoma, Mr. Brown graduated from The University of Oklahoma with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1934 and from the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration with an M.B.A. degree in 1936. Mr. Brown joined the staff of TriContinental Corporation, one of the early investment companies, and became associated with J.&W. Seligman & Co. in 1936. Mr. Brown served as senior partner of the Seligman firm from 1955 to 1981, as chairman and chief executive officer of J.&W. Seligman & Co. from 1981 to 1989 and as director of the latter organization until 2000. He also served as chairman and chief executive officer of the Tri-Continental Corporation and the Seligman mutual funds. In his work with TriContinental he developed the first automatic dividend reinvestment and cash purchase plan offered by a publicly traded company. Mr. Brown had been a director of American International Group, Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co., Newport News Shipbuilding, Inc. and Seaboard Surety Co. He served on numerous boards including College Retirement Equities Fund, Morristown (NJ) Memorial Hospital, The Peck School, Vassar College, and Trudeau Institute. At the time of his death, Mr. Brown was a board member of Lake Placid Center for the Arts, Lake Placid Education Foundation, and Lake Placid Horse Show Association. He was a founding board member of the Adirondack Community Trust. Mr. Brown served in the Field Artillery and Quartermaster Corp. during World War II, attained the rank of Lieutenant Colonel and was awarded the Legion of Merit. He received the Regents Alumni Award, the Distinguished Service Citation and an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree from The University of Oklahoma. He as a member of The Oklahoma Hall of Fame. Mr. Brown is survived by his wife Enid and son Frederick of Austin, TX, as well as his stepchildren: Dorothy Darlington of Old Greenwich, CT, Peter Darlington of Valkaria, FL, Alice Cutler of Morristown, NJ, and Caroline Roy of Lake Placid and ten grandchildren. Funeral services will be held Tuesday, September 3, 2002, at St. Eustace Episcopal Church, Main Street, Lake Placid at 10:30 a.m. Donations may be made to the Adirondack Community Trust, 105 Saranac Avenue, Lake Placid, NY 12946 or to The University of Oklahoma Foundation, C/O Ron Burton, 100 Timberdell Road, Norman, OK 73019. For more info call The Clark Funeral Home in Lake Placid, 518-523-3337.
      