
        BERGNER-Alfred Paul, 59. Of Bethesda, Maryland, on Tuesday, September 24, 2002, of a brain tumor. He was the beloved husband of 34 years and the best friend of Jane Cohen Bergner; the beloved father of Lauren Jill Bergner, of New York, NY and Justin Laurence Bergner, of Arlington, VA.; the devoted son of Isidore Bergner, of Washington, D.C.; and the brother of Faye Miller, of Beverly Hills, CA. An attorney who maintained his own law practice in Washington, DC, concentrating on Federal taxation, estate and retirement planning and probate, he lived bravely for 17 months with and in spite of a brain tumor. From 1967 through 1968, he clerked for Chief Judge William Drennen of the United States Tax court, in Washington, DC. It was in Washington that he met his wife, also a tax lawyer. Following his clerkship, he practiced law with the Washington, DC tax firm of Wenchel, Schulman & Manning where he became a partner. This was followed by partnerships in other Washington law firms until he commenced his own law practice in 1991. From 1988 through 1989, he served as president of the Washington, DC Chapter of the American Friends of the Hebrew University. He founded the Alfred P. and Jane Bergner Family Scholarship at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, Israel, making it possible annually for a college student who is a member of Washington Hebrew Congregation to spend the junior year studying at the Hebrew University. He continued to serve on the national board of the American Friends of the Hebrew University. In addition, for many years he served as a Trustee of the Hebrew Home of Washington, DC, and he remained as a member of the Home's honorary board. He served as member of the past - parents fundraising committee of the National Cathedral School, as well as chair of the fundraising committee for parents of the Amherst College Class of 1995, from which college both he and his daughter graduated. A native of New York, NY, he graduated in 1959 from the Bronx High School of Science and cum laude in 1963 from Amherst College, following which he received an LL.B. degree from Harvard Law School in 1966 and a Masters in Taxation degree from the Graduate Tax Program at New York University in 1967, prior to clerking on the Tax Court. He was admired by his family, friends and clients for both his fortitude and his devotion to those whom he loved and for whom he cared. He was a kind and gentle person with a wry sense of humor, high intellect and outstanding judgment. Memorial contributions may be made to either (1) The Adult Brain Tumor Program, The Hassenfeld Cancer Center, New York University School of Medicine, Attention: Dr. Jonathan L. Finlay, Director, 317 East 34th St, 10th Fl, New York, NY 10016; or (2) The Brain Tumor Clinic, Duke University Medical Center, Attention: Dr. Allan H. Friedman, Co - Director, Trent Drive, Duke South, Rm 4520, Durham, NC 27710. Edward Sagel Funeral Direction, Inc 800-217-9403.
        BERGNER-Alfred P. Of Bethesda, MD. on September 24, 2002. Beloved husband of Jane. Devoted father of Lauren and Justin. Beloved son of Isidore and the late Martha Bergner. Beloved brother of Faye Miller. Loving uncle to Nicole and Jonathan Miller. Deepest sympathies to the family. Edward Bronsteen & Co. Robert Bronsteen Alvin Glickman Harry Leikind Sybil Bralver
      