
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. On September 23, 2002. Adoring and loving husband of Lisa. Adoring and loving father of Lucy and Jack Silverman, Amanda Feinsod, and Jason Silverman. Father of Jessica and Evan Silverman. Beloved grandfather of Alexa and Max Feinsod, and Samantha Silverman. Son of Roberta Silverman. Beloved brother of Kenneth Silverman. Brother of Richard and Barry Silverman. Treasured and beloved son-in-law of Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol. Chairman and CEO of Brand Partners Group, Inc. and former Chairman and CEO of Ply Gem Industries. Services Wednesday, 1 PM, at Central Synagogue, 55th Street and Lexington Avenue.
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The Meltzer family deeply regrets the passing of a dear friend. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his wife Lisa, his children, and the rest of his family. He was a wonderful and loving husband and father. A man of great distinction and integrity, who left his mark and who was always sensitive to the needs of others. He was a very special friend who will be missed and never forgotten. Bruce Meltzer
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The Board of Directors and management team at Triarc Companies, Inc. note with great sorrow the loss of our dearest friend and director, Jeffrey S. Silverman. Jeffrey was a very committed director and provided Triarc with great advice and counsel. He was also a wonderful friend. We will miss him greatly. We extend our most sincere and heartfelt condolences to his wife, Lisa, and his family.
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The Board of Trustees of 32 East 64th Street Corp. are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our dear Board member, Jeffrey Silverman. Our sincerest sympathy to Lisa, Lucy, Jack and their entire family in their hour of grief. Rhetta Felton, President
        SILVERMAN - Jeffrey. A gentle soul, loving husband and father. A wonderful, sensitive human being. This is the way we will always remember you, Jeffrey. All our love and sympathy are with you, Lisa, Lucy and Jack in this difficult and tragic moment. Ornella and Robert
        SILVERMAN - Jeffrey. We have lost a close friend of our entire family who was a man of great integrity and kindness. Our heartfelt sympathy to Lisa, Lucy, Jack and the rest of the family. Tory and Elena Kiam Jonathan and Robin Aviv Lisa Durkin
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. A true gentleman: the kindest and most thoughtful of friends in good times and in bad. You will be sorely missed. My love and sympathy go out to Lisa, Jack and Lucy and all of your family. Ellen Kiam
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. You were the kindest, gentlest, most loving and generous soul, husband, father and friend. We will miss you terribly, but you will never be forgotten. Val and Dan Bergstein Nina and Jim Runsdorf
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. It was all about heart and friends with Jeffrey. There was no more caring person in the world. To Lisa, Jack and Lucy and the Tarnopol and Moore families our thoughts and prayers are with you. Erica & Steven Tishman
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. I will miss Jeffrey's immediate smile at the sight of his beloved wife, Lisa, and his children. His quiet warmth was truly special. My love to the Silverman and Tarnopol families. Cheryl Gordon
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. Our deepest sympathy to Lisa, Lucy and Jack. We will always remember Jeffrey's warmth and caring. Love, Aunt Sande, Uncle Donny, Erica, Robert, Amy, Richie
        SILVERMAN - Jeffrey. We will miss a first-class gentleman and dear friend. Heartfelt condolences to Lisa, the children and the entire Tarnopol clan. Karen and Marty Berger
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. Dear Lisa, Lucy and Jack: Our thoughts are with you at this most painful moment, mourning the loss of a wonderful husband and father. Marsha and Richard
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. You were the true meaning of the word friend, and will always remain in our hearts and thoughts. We will miss you. Susan and Alan Sealove and family
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. Such a giving person, such a good friend. We will all miss you so much. Rest in peace. The Gantcher Family
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. Our deepest condolences to Lisa and the Silverman and Tarnopol families. Roberta and Richard Brudner
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. Loving uncle and brother-in-law. We will miss you always. Lori, David, Nick and Jami
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. A Renaissance man-who will be dearly missed. Steven Klar
      