
        BLANCHARD-Anne Hill, 48. Of Manhattan and Erwinna, PA., died on September 16, 2002. Beloved wife of Edward Vermont Blanchard Jr. and loving mother of Lydia, Catherine and Cordelia; she was also the cherished daughter of W.T. Hill of Huntsville, AL and devoted sister of Liz Hill of Ann Arbor, MI; Bill Hill and Susan Hill of Huntsville, AL; and James Hill of Mineola, NY. Professor of economics at Queens College and former Chair of the department, Anne was an energetic and tireless advocate for women's education and economic well-being. She was a dedicated Trustee of the American Folk Art Museum and served on the Museum's Executive Committee. A prominent collector, Anne was instrumental in recognizing the work of contemporary self-taught artists and helped shape the burgeoning field of outsider art. Funeral services will be held on Saturday, September 21, 2002 at 11AM at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, 5th Ave at 90th Street. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53 Street, New York, New York 10019.
        BLANCHARD-Anne Hill. The Board of Trustees and professional staff of the American Folk Art Museum record with deep sorrow the death of their cherished friend and colleague, Anne Hill Blanchard, for many years a member of the Museum's Board of Trustees and Executive Committee. A person of integrity, conviction and courage, Anne gave of herself unstintingly to the Museum, playing a significant role in the institution's successful efforts to build a new home in the heart of Manhattan, and leaving a lasting legacy of true accomplishment. As chair of the Education Commmittee and as a founder of the Museum's Contemporary Center, she was an inspiring and devoted leader and a dedicated advocate for excellence in all aspects of the institution's service to the public. Possessed of a keen intellect and a generous spirit, Anne embraced life to the fullest, even in the face of serious illness. She will be remembered by us with affection and respect as much for her unfailing kindness and the special quality of her friendship as for her many contributions to the growth and development of the Museum. To Anne's husband and our dear friend, Monty, and to their daughters, Lydia, Catherine and Cordelia, go our most heartfelt condolences. Ralph Esmerian, Chairman L. John Wilkerson, President, Board of Trustees Gerard C. Wertkin, Director
      