
        COSTELLO-Albert J. Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of W.R. Grace & Co. and American Cyanamid Company, 66, Died Tuesday, September 3, 2002. Mr. Costello was appointed to the position of Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of W.R. Grace & Co., now headquartered in Columbia, Maryland, in May 1995 and retired at year-end 1998. Previously, he had served as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of American Cyanamid Company from April 1993 through December 1994, when it was acquired by American Home Products. Mr. Costello joined American Cyanamid as a chemist in 1957. During his career, he held a number of marketing and management posts, including various international assignments. He was named Executive Vice President of Cyanamid in 1983, President in 1991 and Chairman and CEO in 1993. He served on the board of directors of FMC Corp. and Becton, Dickinson and Co., and on the board of trustees for St. Joseph's Children's Hospital in Paterson, New Jersey. He was also involved in several charitable organizations including Eva's Kitchen in Paterson, NJ and Eastern Christian Children's Retreat in Wyckoff, NJ. Born in New York City on September 4, 1935, Mr. Costello received a B.S. degree in chemistry from Fordham University and a Master's Degree in chemistry from New York University. Surviving is his wife Barbara (nee Antolotti), his three sons, Dr. Gregory A. Costello, of Franklin Lakes, Peter M. Costello of London, England and Albert J. Costello Jr. of Wyckoff. Also surviving are five adoring grandchildren, Alessandra, Kathryn, Amanda, Ryan, and Olivia, his mother Lena Costello, and his brothers Ronald and John Costello. Funeral Mass will be held Saturday, 10AM, September 7, 2002 at Most Blessed Sacrament R.C. Church, 787 Franklin Lakes Road Franklin Lakes, NJ. Interment will follow in the Christ the King Cemetery in Franklin Lakes. Visiting is on Friday 2-4 and 79 PM at the Vander Plaat Funeral Home, 257 Godwin Avenue, Wyckoff, N.J.
      