
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Jeffrey Silverman, cherished husband of Lisa and beloved son-in-law of our dear friends Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol. Lynne and Mickey demonstrate their support of the Jewish community and concern for those less fortunate through their exceptional generosity to UJA-Federation and its beneficiary agencies. We extend our sincerest condolences to Lisa and her children, Lucy and Jack; to Lynne and Mickey Tarnopol; to Lori and David Moore; and to the entire Silverman family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        SILVERMAN - Jeffrey. A friend who lived life to its fullest and who blessed all who knew him with his generosity, caring and ever present good humor and smile. Jeffrey, you touched us in a very unique and decent way, and you could always be counted on for anything, large or small. You will be dearly missed. Our heartfelt sympathy to Lisa, Lucy and Jack, and to all the family. Cheryl, Michael, Joanna, Aaron, Peter and Jenifer.
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The American Jewish Committee extends sincere condolences to Michael and Lynn Tarnopol on the untimely death of their son-in-law, Jeffrey Silverman. Our hearts grieve for our dear friends and longtime leaders and for their family as they mourn this tragic loss. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Exec. Dir. Jaime Kelstein, Assistant Exec. Dir. for Institutional Development
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. The New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International records with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Jeffrey S. Silverman, beloved husband of our esteemed Board member Lisa Tarnopol Silverman. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Lisa and all bereaved members of the Silverman and Tarnopol families. Wendy Schmidt, President
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Jeffrey Silverman, on September 23, 2002. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Private services were held. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. To Lisa and family, please know that you have my sympathy and thoughts during this time of loss. Jeff had the respect and admiration of all of his friends and colleagues. He was, and will always be, an inspiration to all of us. I and the entire Advisory Board of Barington will greatly miss him. Jim Mitarotonda
        SILVERMAN - Jeffrey. We will miss your goodness and generosity, your warmth and dignity, and, of course, your friendship. Our heartfelt sympathies to Lisa, Lucy, Jack, and the entire Tarnopol clan. Rest in peace. Laura, John & Marnie Pomerantz Andrea & Matthew Lustig Susie & Kevin Davis
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. The City University of New York Business Leadership Council mourns the passing of our colleague and mentor, Jeffrey S. Silverman. We will miss his wise counsel and courageous leadership. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire Silverman family. Benno Schmidt Matthew Goldstein
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. All the love and support of the entire Ashforth Warburg family go out to Lisa Silverman and her children Jack and Lucy on the loss of their husband and father. Frederick Peters, President Jane Bayard, Executive Vice President
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. You were an angel sent to usKind, generous and loving. A once-in-a-lifetime friend. We were so blessed to have had you in our lives. We love you and you will never be forgotten. Our prayers to Lisa and the entire family. Rose and Elliot Smith
        SILVERMAN - Jeffrey. We loved you and will miss you. You were a great friend and very caring husband and father. We will look after your darling wife Lisa and your two wonderful children Lucy and Jack. Jody and Mickey Weissman
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. Jeffrey, we will miss your smiling face, your thoughtfulness and your gentle soul and how much you cared and gave to all of us. No words can express how sorry we are. We love all of you. The Holzers
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. If an award was given for who is the best friend... you would have won hands down! We will miss you, but never forget you. Joan, Mark, Lee and Jonathan Boyar
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The employees of Violy, Byorum & Partners deeply mourn the passing of Jeffrey Silverman, a valued confidant and trusted friend. We miss him already. Violy, Byorum & Partners
        SILVERMAN - Jeffrey. We are deeply saddened by this terrible loss. Our heartfelt condolences to Lisa, the Silverman family and dear friends Lynne and Mickey. Dot and John Levy
        SILVERMAN - Jeffrey. To lovely Lisa and her children, the Koenig family sends our heartfelt condolences. Jeffrey was a man of charm and distinction and all who knew him will never forget him.
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. The warmest, kindest, most thoughtful friend; we shall always miss you. To Lisa and your entire family, our deepest affection and sympathy. Judy and Arthur Schwartz
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey. The memory of his charm, wit, kindness and friendship will eventually replace the profound sadness we feel today. Bonnie and Clive Chajet
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. Go with peace. Wendy and Barry, Adam and Jonathan, Peter and Carol, Christopher and Alexandra
        SILVERMAN-Jeffrey S. You touched many lives in a positive way. You were special and loved and will be missed. Peter and Barbara Hewitt
      