
        MITCHELL-Bruce W., in New York on September 10 of complications from lung cancer. Born in Chicago, B.A. and M.B.A. from Stanford University, he spent the majority of his career with Bank of America, retiring as the general auditor of the corporation. In retirement he served on the boards of the Roundabout Theatre, A.R.T., New York, and the Vilar Center in Beaver Creek, Colorado. He is survived by his wife of 42 years, Carol; his three children: Sean, of Bellevue, WA; George of Los Angeles, CA., and Jenny Johnson of Seattle, WA; as well as five grandchildren. His sisters, Marilyn Mitchell, Judy Rediehs and Margery Curtiss also mourn his passing. In lieu of flowers, donations to A.R.T. New York, 575 Eighth Avenue, Suite 17 South, New York, NY 10018-3011, in his name will be greatly appreciated. A memorial service in his honor will be held on Saturday, September 14 at 4:30PM at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church at 921 Madison Avenue (the corner of 73rd Street).
        MITCHELL - Bruce. Roun dabout Theatre Company mourns the passing of our beloved friend and board member Bruce Mitchell. His warmth, generosity and leadership was a source of profound inspiration to us all. He joined our board in 1986. During his tenure he worked tirelessly leading the company through difficult times in those early years to a position of great prosperity today. Beyond his work as a board member, it was his great passion for the theatre and his celebration of the staff and artists that made him such a special member of this company. His impact is tremendous. We are all truly grateful to have had him in our lives. He will be deeply missed but his legacy will live on in our hearts and on our stage. We extend our most sincere condolences to his wife, Carol and family. Todd Haimes, President and Artistic Director Roundabout Theatre Company
        MITCHELL-Bruce W. The staff and board of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/ New York are profoundly saddened by the passing of our friend and Board member Bruce W. Mitchell. Bruce's passionate concern, clear headed analysis, and unwavering belief in our mission have made this a better organization. And his tremendous generosity, dignity and humor have made all of us who work here better human beings. He was adventurous, he lived his life to the fullest and he could give a hell of a party. Our thoughts are with his amazing wife Carol, his children and the rest of his family. Virginia Louloudes Executive Director
      