
        HARRISON-Dennis Patrick. March 14, 1918-October 13, 2002. Actor, director, husband, father, grandfather and friend. As a child he tapdanced with his Irish-born father and in WWII made Naval training movies. His first professional job was in Harvey. Unsure of show business, he worked as a traffic manager for Pan Am. Actress, Amelia Baines, convinced him to return to theatre. Smitten, he never did anything else. He married Amelia and they had two daughters. Dennis Harrison was one of 1950's television most recognizable faces. He was television's first vampire in a 1951 episode of Stage 13. He won awards for theatrical portrayals in The Life of Father Flannigan and The Life of Thomas Moore. His big break was The Liar, directed by Alfred Drake. Dennis' chiseled good looks, phenomenal charm, and gifted singing voice brought him to Hollywood using his middle name as his last. As Dennis Patrick, he guest-starred in more than 1,000 television shows. In the 1960s, divorced, he returned to New York appearing in several plays including an award-winning Marat Sade. There, in 1970, he met and wed actress Barbara Cason. They were a quintessential show-biz couple working extensively from coast to coast and sharing everything in their lives with family and friends. Lucky were the guests at homey, funny dinner parties of food, music, laughter, and story telling. Dennis was in three series: Bert D'Angelo Superstar with Paul Sorvino, Dallas, as a chief suspect in the shooting of JR, and Dark Shadows, reprising a vampire role. Motion picture credits include, Joe with Peter Boyle, The Air Up There with Kevin Bacon, The House of Dark Shadows, and The Secret of Nikola Tesla with Orson Welles. Dennis continued working following the untimely 1990 death of his wife, Barbara Cason, though he was forever changed. On October 13, in the house Dennis and Barbara had shared, a fire claimed Dennis and his dog, Josh. A word-loving, voracious reader, who enjoyed life, remembered countless stories and jokes, he was proud, funny, sweet, and eternally in love with Barbara Cason. His ashes were scattered at sea, where Barbara's ashes waited. Josh's ashes went with him. Survived by sisters Mary and Joan, beloved daughter Chris and granddaughter, Autumn. Donations honoring the memory of Dennis Patrick may be made to the Actor's Fund.
      