
        GREEN-S. William (Bill). On October 14, 2002. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Freiberg). Devoted and cherished father of Cathy Green and Louis Green. Dear brother of Cynthia Green Colin. Fond brother-in-law of Carole and Marvin Leichtung. Loving uncle of nieces, Julie, Laura, Ann and Betsy, and nephew, Jim. A native of New York City, he served his city and his country in many capacities, both before and after representing the East Side of Manhattan in the House of Representatives from 1978 to 1992. He was a graduate and loyal alumnus of Harvard College and Harvard Law School. Visiting at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., on Tuesday, October 15, and Wednesday, October 16, from 7 PM-9 PM. Services Thursday, October 17, at 11:30 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
        GREEN-S. William. The Horace Mann community deeply regrets the passing of S. Wiliam Green, '46, husband of Patricia Freiberg Green and father of Louis and Catherine Ann. A former trustee of Horace Mann, he served with dedication, conviction and soundness of judgement. Recipient of ''The Alumni Association Award For Distinguished Achievement,'' he was recognized not only for his public service with the New York State Assembly, The United States Congress, The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, but also for his outstanding contributions both as a private citizen and public servant in the fields of science and technology. Passionate in his thrust for just governance, Mr. Green was a man of strength and integrity who inspired those around him. While at Horace Mann, he served as Editor-in-Chief of ''The Record;'' Class Vice President, President of the Debating Society and as a representative to the Horace Mann Legislative Body. He will be missed for his commitment to principle and for the warmth of his friendships to Horace Mann. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Patricia, to his children and to the other members of his family. Dr. Eileen Mullady, Head of School Robert J. Katz '65 Chair, Board of Trustees
        GREEN-S. William. The Directors, officers and staff of Population Action International mourn the loss of a valued Board member. During his 15 years in Congress, Mr. Green distinguished himself as a quiet but determined leader on family planning, both at home and abroad. In joining PAI in 1993, he continued to champion these programs, critical to the health and well-being of women and their families, and was a constant source of wise counsel to the Organization. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Constance Spahn, Chair Amy Coen, President
        GREEN-S. William. The Board of Trustees, President, and the entire community of Barnard College deeply mourn the death of the Honorable S. William Green, distinguished public servant and beloved husband of Barnard's Trustee Emerita and former Chair of the Board of Trustees, Patricia Green. He shared his wife's devotion to Barnard and participated with her in supporting the College most generously. We extend our deepest condolences to Pat and the entire Green family.
        GREEN-Bill. The Trustees and staff of The American Assembly, Columbia University, mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague, Bill Green. Throughout his years of service on our Board, he enriched our lives and we will miss his friendship, wise counsel and support. Our condolences to his wife, Pat, and his daughter Catherine, son Louis and sister Cynthia Green Colin. Stephen Stamas, Chairman, Board of Trustees David H. Mortimer, Chief Operating Officer
        GREEN-Bill. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Cancer Research Institute are deeply saddened by the passing of Bill Green, a valued CRI trustee for 33 years. We will miss Bill's steadfast support and quiet wisdom. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Patricia, and his children, Louis and Catherine. Ann W. Jackson, Chairman Lloyd J. Old, MD, Director Scientific Advisory Council Jill O'Donnell-Tormey, Ph.D. Executive Director
        GREEN-S. William. Commercial Capital Corporation mourns the passing of Bill Green, a great American, distinguished attorney and a public servant of the highest integrity. Bill was a longtime Director and steadfast supporter of our company. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Pat, his sister Cynthia, and the entire Green family. Charles Freeman, Chairman Craig Reynolds, Director
        GREEN-Honorable S. William. The Board of Governors and staff of the New York Academy of Sciences mourn the loss of Bill Green, longtime member, former Chairman, and generous benefactor. The Academy is especially indebted for his leadership in its science education and public policy programs. New York Academy of Sciences
        GREEN-Bill. The Academy of Political Science mourns the loss of its Vice Chairman and Treasurer, Bill Green. He was a long time member, director of the Academy and generous supporter. We will all miss his commitment to objective, nonpartisan analysis of political issues to which the academy is devoted. George B. Munroe, Chairman Demetrios J. Caraley, Pres.
      