
        MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J., 76. Son of the late Joseph and Rose Vallely Murray, brother of the late Rosaleen P. Sage (Donald), Mary M. Houlihan (James G.), John T. Murray (Eileen), Sister Mary Rose Murray, S.U., and Patrick W. Murray (Cathy). ''Uncle Bud'' survived by 10 Sage nieces and nephews and their spouses and children, six Houlihan nephews and nieces and their spouses and children, eight Murray nieces and nephews, and their spouses and children. Graduate of Our Lady of Angels School (Bronx), Regis High School ('42), U.S. Army ('44-'46), Fordham College ('48), Fordham Univ Law School ('51), Saint Joseph's Seminary ('56), Fordham Univ School of Social Service. Knight of Holy Sepulchre and Malta, Executive Director NY Catholic Charities for over 27 years. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, on Saturday and Sunday from 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. Mass of Christ The High Priest at Saint Patrick's Cathedral on Monday at 10 A.M. Interment Saint Raymond's Cemetery, Bronx, New York. Contributions in his memory may made be made to Saint Joseph's Seminary, Dunwoodie, Yonkers, NY.
        MURRAY-Reverend Monsignor James J. James D. Cameron, President, Henry J. Humphreys, Chairman, the Trustees, staff and residents of Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center mourn the loss of our great friend and supporter, Monsignor James J. Murray, as we extend our deepest sympathies to his family and friends. For more than 25 years, Monsignor Murray served as the Secretary of the Board of Trustees and Executive Director for Catholic Charities, an organization with overarching responsibility for more than 200 health and social service organizations. Throughout his lifetime, Monsignor Murray worked tirelessly to ensure extraordinary services, compassionate care, and a dignified lifestyle for the sick, the elderly, and the disenfranchised. His life's work is exemplified in a favorite poem that Monsignor kept in his prayer book: ''Others, Lord. Yes, others. Let this my motto be: help me to live for others, that I may live for thee.'' As a leader in our community, and a true soldier of Christ, the legacy of his commitment will live on through those he helped and in the heart of all who knew him.
        MURRAY - Monsignor James J. The Board, members and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) mourn the passing of Monsignor James J. Murray. Monsignor Murray exemplified the highest ideals of leadership and service to his community. He embodied these virtues in his vital role as the Executive Director and Secretary of the Board of Trustees of Catholic Charities, through his special efforts to support the nursing homes and hospitals of the Archdiocese of New York, and in his tremendous compassion and concern for those in need. We wish to express our sincere condolences to Monsignor Murray's family and friends, to his beloved family in the Catholic community, and to his many colleagues in the fields of healthcare and social services. Kenneth E. Raske, President Greater New York Hospital Association Scott C. Amrhein, Executive Director GNYHA's Center for Continuing Care
        MURRAY - Monsignor James J. On behalf of the Board, physicians, management, nurses and all employees of Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, we mourn the passing of our beloved collegue and friend, Our Lady of Mercy Trustee Monsignor James J. Murray. Having served as Executive Director of Catholic Charities, from 1973 until his retirement 28 years later, Monsignor Murray held the ministry of Catholic Charities and Catholic Healthcare near and dear to his heart. From 1991 until the time of his death, Monsignor Murray served with compassion and wisdom on the Board of Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center. His dedication to others was evident in all that he did; and while we mourn his passing, we are thankful for the many gifts he has left us. We extend our prayers and sympathies to the members of his family. James A. Rutherford President & CEO Christopher Conley, Chairman of the Board Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center
        MURRAY - Monsignor James J. The Board of Directors, Carmelite Sisters and Staff are deeply saddened by the sudden death of Monsignor James J. Murray, former President of the Board of Directors of Mary Manning Walsh Home. His vision, knowledge and expertise in anticipating the needs of and responding to the challenges in providing quality health care services to the aged, has ensured our growth and development and left an indelible mark. We are especially thankful for Monsignor's priestly ministry as Chaplain to the Residents, Sisters and Staff which greatly enriched us spiritually over the past 20 years. Monsignor shall be forever remembered in our hearts and prayers. Board of Directors, Sisters and Staff Mary Manning Walsh Home
        MURRAY - Monsignor James J. The Lincoln Hall Board of Managers notes with deep regret the passing of Monsignor James J. Murray who faithfully served on the Board for 21 years. Monsignor Murray served on the Executive and Law Committees. He will be remembered for his dedication and advocacy for the underprivileged youth in Lincoln Hall's care. James G. Nugent, President Douglas W. Wyatt, Vice Pres Lincoln Hall Board of Managers
        MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J. The Board of Directors and Management of Catholic Guardian Society acknowledge with deep regret the sudden passing of our esteemed Board member. His wisdom, caring, support and guidance served the agency well for over 30 years. He will be greatly missed. Our condolences are extended to his entire family. John P. Tricamo, President John J. Frein, Executive Director
        MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J. The children, staff, and Board of Trustees of The New York Foundling mourn the loss of a wise former board member and truly beloved friend. Carol Anne Barnes, SC Chair New York Foundling
      