
        LERNER-Alfred. The medical staff, administration and the Board of Trustees of Hospital for Special Surgery expresses their deepest sorrow over the loss of Alfred Lerner. Mr. Lerner, who served as Chairman and CEO of MBNA, made an extraordinary contribution to the civic life of Cleveland. The leadership, character and reputation for integrity of the former Brooklyn native was evident by the growth of MBNA and his many philanthropic donations to medical research and educational causes. We extend our sincere condolences to his family, including his son Randy, who sits on our Board of Trustees. Services will be held Friday at the TempleTifereth Israel in Cleveland. Richard L. Menschel, Chairman, Board of Trustees John R. Reynolds, President and CEO Hospital for Special Surgery
        LERNER-Alfred. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Alfred Lerner, a member of the Columbia College class of 1955. He was a respected colleague whose leadership as vice chair of the Trustees was marked by exceptional insight, unfailing decency, and dedication to his alma mater. Alfred Lerner Hall, Columbia's innovative student center, was made possible by his generosity to the University. Columbia University extends its profound sympathy to his wife, Mrs. Norma Lerner, his son Randy, his daughter Nancy, and to his seven grandchildren. Lee C. Bollinger, President of the University David J. Stern, Chair of the Trustees
        LERNER-Alfred. We have lost a friend, partner, mentor and inspiring presence in our lives. Al Lerner was a unique individual who embodied all the best qualities of humankind. Our love and admiration for him and the wisdom and inspiration which he imparted to us on a daily basis will live on forever within us and all he touched. So much of what we do everyday is a result of his positive influence and the example that he set for us all. We extend our heartfelt and deepest sympathies to Norma, Lara and Randy; Nancy and Bill, to his seven beautiful grandchildren and to all of the Lerner family. Carol and Harvey Schulweis
        LERNER-Alfred. The Board of Trustees, Officers and Employees of The Town and Country Trust mourn the passing of our esteemed Chairman of the Board. Al created the vision and leadership that established the foundation for the success of this company. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Norma and the entire, extended Lerner family. Harvey Schulweis, President and CEO
        LERNER-Alfred. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Jewish Foundation for the Righteous mourn the passing of Alfred Lerner, a dedicated friend and a generous supporter of our Foundation over many years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Norma Lerner and the entire family. Harvey Schulweis, Chairman Paul Goldberger, President Stanlee Stahl, Executive Vice President
        LERNER - Alfred. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons, and Weill Cornell Medical College mourn the passing of Alfred Lerner, a member since 1998 of the Hospital's Board of Trustees. Mr. Lerner was a generous philanthropist and a valued friend. We extend our sincere condolences to his family.
      