
        SHURE-Michael A. On October 21. Adored husband of Alice. Beloved father of Michael Jr. and Tony. Cherished father-in-law of Sandra. Devoted son of Evelyn and the late Harry Shure. Born in New Haven, CT. on December 23, 1938. Graduate of the University of Virginia. Attended Pratt School of Architecture. He lived his life with inimitable passion. He loved his family and friends unconditionally. He made all who knew him laugh and smile. Private burial. A Memorial service will be held on Wednesday 6pm in the Peter B. Lewis Theatre at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent to The University of Virginia School of Architecture, P.O. Box 400122, Charlottesville, Va. 22904
        SHURE-Michael A. The School of Architecture at the University of Virginia mourns the passing of our beloved friend and esteemed board member emeritus. Michael's extraordinary generosity and commitment to our programs will enrich the lives of students in many generations to come. We miss him but know that he will always be with us.
        SHURE-Michael. We mourn the passing of our cherished friend. He embraced life with such passion and style, and enriched our lives with his wit, warmth and ''Lobster Americaine''. Our hearts go out to Alice, Michael, Sandra, Tony and Evelyn. With love, Ellie, Edgar, Trip, Sam & Georgina
        SHURE - Michael. Dearest Mike, how brave and courageous you were, and forever inspiring. We were blessed by your friendship and cherish our time together. You are in our hearts. Your memory will be eternal. We love you, and we will miss you. Bette-Ann and Charles Gwathmey and Eric Steel
        SHURE-Michael. To our cherished friend for forty years, we will greatly miss your warmth, enthusiasm and passion. Your spirit and memory will forever be in our hearts and thoughts. Our love & condolences to Alice, Michael, Tony and Evelyn. The Sapirstein family
        SHURE-Michael. Dear boss, there will never be another. You were one of a kind. ''There never was a day I wasn't glad to see you.'' Love, Loretta
        SHURE-Michael. There will never be a better man. The 5th of July will forever be Michael Shure Day to us. Marc and Gavin
        SHURE-Michael. More family than friend for over 35 years. In our hearts forever. D. B. W. J. and Family
      