
        ROSS-Thomas B., 73. Died October 24, at Eastern Long Island Hospital, after a battle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his wife Gunilla (Ekstrand) of Shelter Island Heights, N.Y., daughters Maria, Anne and Kristina, two granddaughters and his sister Grace Shanley. Vice President, Government Relations, Loral Space & Communications, Inc., he was formerly Special Assistant to President Clinton and Senior Director of Public Affairs for the National Security Council, a Senior Vice President of NBC News, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs in the Carter Administration, and foreign correspondent and Washington Bureau Chief of the Chicago Sun-Times. Coauthor with David Wise of three books on government intelligence, including New York Times number one bestseller, ''The Invisible Government,'' and a Nieman Fellow at Harvard, he served three years as an officer in the U.S. Navy during the Korean War. Memorial service to be announced. Contributions in his memory may be made to Yale University, Class of 1951 Memorial Scholarship Fund.
        ROSS-Thomas B. The employees of Loral Space & Communications express their deepest sorrow over the death of their dear friend and colleague, Tom Ross. Vice President of Government Relations for Loral since 1995, Tom brought intelligence, style, clear-sightedness, integrity and a wealth of experience to the tasks he performed for the company. In his own words, he ''cobbled together'' a rich and interesting life, with significant stints as a newspaper reporter, an official in the Carter and Clinton administrations, a bestselling author and a corporate public relations officer. An elegant writer and terrific storyteller, Tom was admired and loved by all the employees lucky enough to work with him. He spoke with pride of his wife and three daughters and was delightted to be a grandfather. We join Tom's family and friends in mourning the loss of this wonderful man. He had a great run. Funeral Mass to be held Friday, November 8, at 9 AM, Church of St. Thomas More, 89th and Madison. Contributions in Tom's memory may be made to Yale University, Class of 1951 Memorial Scholarship Fund, 265 Church Street, Suite 300, New Haven, CT. 06520. Bernard L. Schwartz, Chairman and the employees of Loral Space & Communications
      