
        ANNENBERG-Hon. Walter H. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourn the passing of a dear friend and esteemed honorary member of AECOM's Board of Overseers. One of America's foremost philanthropists, he was a major Benefactor, both of AECOM and YU. He was among the handful of forward - looking personalities who encouraged the establishment of our medical school while it was still in the planning stages, and was one of the first members of its Society of Founders. He was named to the AECOM Board in 1954, a year before the medical school opened, and served with distinction until his death. An honorary alumnus of Yeshiva University, Walter Annenberg remained a staunch supporter and dedicated leader throughout his lifetime, continuing to divide his munificent support between AECOM and other schools of YU. He will be sorely missed, and his memory will be recalled with abiding reverence and gratitude. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Leonore, and to his entire family. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Robert A. Belfer, Chairman AECOM Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean AECOM
        ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Center for Arts Education deeply mourns the lost of Walter H. Annenberg, a visionary, great benefactor, inspirational leader, and a wonderful friend. He created the $500 million Annenberg Challenge, a bold, public-private partnership, to improve public education. In New York City, we are honored that his $12 million challenge grant established The Center for Arts Education which has revived arts education in our public schools. Ambassador Annenberg's legacy will continue to inspire us. We extend our sincerest condolences to the Annenberg family and the Foundation. Laurie Tisch Sussman, Chairman Hollis Headrick, Executive Director The Center for Arts Education
        ANNENBERG-Walter. The Peddie School is deeply saddened by the death of Walter H. Annenberg, our beloved alumnus, benefactor and friend. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Lee, the Annenberg family, and our friends at the Annenberg Foundation. His loyalty and generosity to his alma mater were unparalleled. Countless Peddie students are grateful for the education he made possible. Finn M. W. Caspersen Chairman of the Board John Green, Head of School The Peddie Community
        ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of a devoted friend and supporter, Walter H. Annenberg. He took a genuine interest in the welfare of all the residents of Jerusalem, and his efforts will be long remembered. We extend our condolences to the entire Annenberg family. Teddy Kollek, Internat'l Chair Ruth Cheshin, Internat'l Pres. Kenneth Bialkin, Acting Chair Sandra Rubin, Exec. Director
      