
        LERNER-Alfred. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Alfred Lerner, a member of the Columbia College class of 1955. He was a respected colleague whose leadership as vice chair of the Trustees was marked by exceptional insight, unfailing decency, and dedication to his alma mater. Alfred Lerner Hall, Columbia's innovative student center, was made possible by his generosity to the University. Columbia University extends its profound sympathy to his wife, Mrs. Norma Lerner, his son Randy, his daughter Nancy, and to his seven grandchildren. Lee C. Bollinger, President of the University David J. Stern, Chair of the Trustees
        LERNER-Alfred. We have lost a friend, partner, mentor and inspiring presence in our lives. Al Lerner was a unique individual who embodied all the best qualities of humankind. Our love and admiration for him and the wisdom and inspiration which he imparted to us on a daily basis will live on forever within us and all he touched. So much of what we do everyday is a result of his positive influence and the example that he set for us all. We extend our heartfelt and deepest sympathies to Norma, Lara and Randy; Nancy and Bill, to his seven beautiful grandchildren and to all of the Lerner family. Carol and Harvey Schulweis
        LERNER-Alfred. The Board of Trustees, faculty, staff and students of the New York Academy of Art mourn the passing of Alfred Lerner, father of our esteemed Chairman, Randy Lerner, a loyal friend of the Academy, and an exemplary patron of the arts. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to Norma, Randy and Lara, Nancy and Bill, and all of the Lerner family. David K. Schafer, President Of the Board of Trustees Stephen Farthing, Executive Director New York Academy of Art
        LERNER-Alfred. The Columbia College Class of 1955 expresses its deepest sorrow at the passing of one of its classmates, Alfred Lerner. We have lost a friend and someone we shared many experiences with at Columbia College. Our sympathy goes to his wife Norma, his son Randy, his daughter Nancy and his grandchildren. Members of the Columbia College Class of 1955
        LERNER-Alfred. The Board of Visitors and the Alumni Association of Columbia College mourn the loss of our loyal alumnus, trusted advisor and generous benefactor, Alfred Lerner, class of 1955. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family.
      