
        WOLFF-Carl T., M.D. Passed away with valor in the face of colon cancer on October 14 at the age of 71. Beloved husband of Carolyn Chaliff. Devoted father of Leslie Culhane, Andrew E. Wolff and Jonathan M. Wolff. Admired father-in-law of Myles Culhane. Proud grandfather of Jackson Culhane. Cherished uncle of Ilana and Jeffrey Previdi. Treasured friend and trusted advisor to many. A man of great accomplishment, Carl, above all, loved and protected his family. He brought a passionate enthusiasm to an array of interests: the arts, the wilderness, the cello, golf, gardening, travel, Proust, Wagner, and the Yankees. A 1949 graduate of the Horace Mann School, Carl led his class as an athlete and scholar. He majored in English at Yale University, from which he graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1953. He was awarded a medical degree from the Harvard Medical School in 1957. From 1960-1964, he interned at the Massachusetts General Hospital, was a resident at the Massachusetts Mental Health Service, and served with the National Institute of Mental Health in Washington, D.C. In 1964, he returned to New York City as Instructor at the Downstate Medical Center. He continued his training at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute from 1966 until 1971 and maintained a private practice in psychiatry and psychoanalysis until his retirement in 1998. Carl found inspiration in the planet's abundant beautyfrom the tundra of the Arctic Circle to the corn patch in Pound Ridge, from the mountains of Nepal to the dunes of Amagansett. An expansive humanist, he believed in science and intellectual inquiry as powerful ways to savor and decipher the mysteries of the universe. His embracing spirit will continue to nourish us always. Contributions in his memory to Lewa Wildlife Conservancy, a rhino sanctuary in Kenya (c/o Helen Christian; P.O. Box 368; Marshall, VA 20116), or to a charity of your choice. A memorial service will be held Sunday, October 20, at 4:30 PM at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.
      