
        HERTZ-Ralph E.L., BSc., M.D., C.M., F.A.C.S., Died on October 14th at his home in Mooloa Farm, of Ulupalakua, Maui, Hawaii, formerly of Pelham, New York. Dr. Hertz is survived by his wife of 56 years Mary M. ''Mackie'' Edwards. Dr. Hertz was a surgeon at Memorial Sloan Kettering Hospital Cancer Center; Clinical Instructor of Surgery at Cornell Medical School; Chief of Service at Polyclinic Hospital and Consultant at Strang Clinic. Following retirement he was appointed to the Emeritus Medical Staff of Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases and to the Emeritus Staff of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Born in Greensburg, Pennsylvania on August 6, 1920 to the late Ralph and Lucille DeLage, he obtained his BSc. and M.D.C.M. degrees from McGill University, Montreal Quebec. He was a King (Eagle) Scout and carried the Canadian flag at the opening ceremonies of the World Jamboree in Washington, D.C. in 1937. During World War II he served as a Captain in the Royal Canadian Medical Corps. He entered into private practice in New York City in 1954 and specialized in direct patient care. He was a member of the New York Athletic Club and the Larchmont Yacht Club. He leaves his children Beatrice of Ottawa, Canada, Louise White of Pelham, NY, Frank of Mount Kisco, NY, Dr. Christine Wolf (Doug) of Atlanta, GA., Ralph (Nancy) of Briarcliff Manor, NY, Margaret McClendon (Bernie) of Elko, NV, James (Bronwyn) of Cranford, NJ, Kenneth of Maui, HI, Dorothy Topham (Patrick) of Nantucket, MA., Virginia of Maui, HI, Donald of Pelham, NY, Jennifer Libsack (Jamy) of Portland, ME, and 30 grandchildren. He is predeceased by his son Henry. He is survived by his sister, Olivette Stricker of Wilkes-Barre, PA. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at Our Lady of Perpetual Help Church, Pelham Manor, NY. on Monday October 21st at 10 AM followed by interment at Gate of Heaven Cemetery, Hawthorne, NY. The family will receive friends on Sunday 2-4 and from 7-9 PM at the Hawthorne Funeral Home, 21 Stevens Avenue, Hawthorne, NY. 914-769-4404. In lieu of flowers donations in his memory to Boy Scouts of America Westchester/Putnam Council, 41 Saw Mill River Road, Hawthorne, New York, 10532, or Maui Hospice, 400 Mahalani Street, Wailuku, HI 96793, would be appreciated.
      