
        DUKEK-William G., 86. Died October 15 at Winchester Gardens, Maplewood, NJ. He retired from Exxon Research & Engineering Company as Senior Research Associate in charge of aviation fuel research. He was a former chairman of the Coordinating Research Council's Aviation Committee dealing with the military and civil industry problems. He had long been active in ASTM (American Society for Testing and Materials), which gave him their Award of Merit & the Dyrock Honorary Life Membership. He helped create the first civil specifications and tests for jet fuel, served on advisory groups to NATO, NASA, FAA and the Department of Defense, and was an authority on static electricity and consulted on fuel accidents. He was born in Lansdowne, PA, son of Isabel Fairweather and William G. Dukek. He was a Lehigh University graduate, Phi Beta Kappa, editor of the college newspaper and a candidate for a Rhodes Scholarship. Called up in 1939 as an ROTC second lieutenant in ordnance, he spent six years at the Port of Embarkation in Brooklyn and was discharged in 1946 as a major. Almost forty years were spent at Exxon as liaison between the research company and the aviation industry. He married Phoebe Myers, they divorced, & in 1956 he married Nancy Bowman Williams, widow of a colleague, mother of four children, 2 to 12 years old. Three of these survivors have doctorates: Cynthia W. Hinchman of Washington, DC, Todd R. Williams, Ph.D., of Lake Elmo, MN; Janet B.W. Williams, D.S.W., of Irvington, NY, and Patricia D. Williams, M.D., of Woodstock, ME. He is also survived by his wife, Nancy, and 8 grandchildren: David and Alison Hinchman; Roger Williams; Noah, Ezra & Gideon SpitzerWilliams; and Ethan and Camden Elliott-Williams; and he leaves one sister, Jean Dukek Matthews of Cherry Hill, NJ. He willed his body to Robert Wood Johnson Medical School. Service at the Unitarian Church in Summit, NJ Saturday, Nov. 9 at 1 PM, followed by a celebration party from 3-4 PM for residents, family and friends at Winchester Gardens, Maplewood. 973762-5050. Donations to Lehigh University are welcome.
      