
        WALSH-Albert J. What a great shock and what a great loss to the people of The City of New York. Al was the premier expert in the field of subsidized housing for persons of limited income. Having served as Deputy Commissioner of The State Division of Housing, and Community Renewal, and thereafter, as Commissioner of Housing for The City of New York, Al was the power behind many of the large-scale subsidized housing developments in our City that made available much - needed, affordable housing. ABO was honored that he served as our Chairman for our Mitchell-Lama Housing Committee. He was a special talented and rare human being whom we shall miss deeply. Our sincerest condolences are extended to his charming and devoted wife, Nan. Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York Jerome Belson, President Michael Kerr, Arnold Sollar, Co-Chairman Nick LaPorte, Executive Director
        WALSH-Albert. The Board of Directors and staff of the Citizens Housing & Planning Council mourn with great sadness the death of our colleague and friend Albert Walsh. We were all influenced by his intelligence and enthusiasm and inspired by his unwavering commitment to the public good. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Nan and the Walsh family. James Lipscomb, Chairman Marvin Markus, President Frank Braconi, Exec Director
        WALSH-Albert A. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Seward & Kissel LLP deeply mourn the passing on October 9 of Albert A. Walsh, our esteemed partner and friend. Al was a valued member of the firm's real estate practice for over 25 years and his contribution to the practice of law will be greatly missed by his many clients, colleagues and friends. We extend our sincerest condolences to Nan, and the entire family.
        WALSH-Albert A. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear colleague and friend, one of the great leaders of the housing community in New York and the nation. Nan, we mourn Al's passing with you and your family. Settlement Housing Fund, Inc Carol Lamberg Clara Fox Susan Cole Charles Warren
      