
        LIST-Vera Glaser, 94. Of Greenwich, CT, on October 10, 2002. Survived by three daughters and their spouses, Carol and Eric Schwartz of Denver, CO, Olga and George Mack of NYC, and Viki Laura List of Rosemont, PA. Also survived by 11 grandchildren and 23 great-grandchildren. Predeceased by her husband, Albert A., daughter, Jo List Levinson, grandson, Michael Israel and brother, Samuel. Services Sunday, 9:30 AM, at List Hall, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, NYC. Burial, Fall River, MA. Shiva at the Macks, 980 5th Ave. (79th St.), on Monday and Tuesday, 1-5 and 7-9 PM, and at 201 Byram Shore Road, Greenwich, CT. Wednesday, 1-6 P.M. Inquiries to Plaza Jewish Memorial Chapel, 212769-4400. In lieu of flowers, make donations to the Vera List Scholarship Fund at the New School University, 66 West 12th Street, NY, NY 10011, would be appreciated.
        LIST - Vera Glaser. The Trustees and staff of New School University mark with deep sadness the death of Vera G. List, a Life Trustee, who served the New School for over forty years with dedication, generosity of spirit, abiding loyalty to its educational traditions and unwavering support to the task of building the university. Few individuals have meant so much to an institution as has Vera List to the New School. Her intellectual breadth, wisdom and imagination have touched virtually every aspect of this university-its academic programs and divisions, identification with the arts, faculty support and endowed lectureships, facilities, student fellowships and services, and its commitment to human rights. A woman with rare and unique gifts, Vera List stands out promenitly in the tradition of bold people whose courage, moral fortitude, and commitment have built and sustained this institution, and who has inspired all of us to do better. We have lost a priceless friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to daughter Carol and Eric Schwartz, daughter Olga and George Mack, and daughter Viki Laura List, her grandchildren, and her greatgrandchildren. Philip Scaturro Chairman, Board of Trustees Bob Kerrey, President New School University
        LIST - Vera. The Jewish Museum Trustees and staff mourn the passing of Life Trustee Vera Glaser List, who, with her husband Albert, were longtime supporters of the Museum, creating a wing and sculpture court in 1963. Mrs. List held the position of Vice Chair, Chair and Honorary Chair of the Board, and for over 30 years sponsored a yearly graphic commissioning program for contemporary artists who created works relating to the celebration of the Jewish New Year. She was a champion of all efforts to marry contemporary art with Jewish culture, and supported for many years the work of contemporary master craftsman Moshe Zabari and Ludwig Wolpert, whose Judaic silvermaking studios were located in The Jewish Museum. Her creativity, generosity and commitment were a driving force of the Museum for many years, and we extend our heartfelt condolences to her three daughters and their families. Joan Rosenbaum, Director Susan Lytle Lipton, Chairman John Vogelstein, President
        LIST-Vera. Hadassah, The Women's Zionest Organization of America, Inc. mourns the passing of Vera Glaser List, beloved wife of Albert List, of Blessed Memory. She was the devoted mother of Olga and George Mack, Carol and Eric Schwartz, Viki Laura List, and JoAnn List Levinson, of Blessed Memory. She was the cherished grandmother of 12 grandchildren and 23 great-grandchildren. As a Guardian of Zion, Vera was a generous benefactor of Hadassah who was devoted to Israel and the Jewish people. Her legacy will live on through divisionary projects she supported at the Hadassah Medical Organization and the many contributions she made to other institutions. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. May her memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, President
        LIST-Vera Glaser. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Vera Glaser List, who with her late husband, Albert, endowed JTS's undergraduate school, Albert A. List College, and constructed the List Building at the JTSaffiliated Jewish Museum. Remembered for her Yiddishkeit, she took pride in her family's holiday observance and Jewish education. She is survived by her daughters, Viki Laura List, Olga Mack (George) and Carol Schwartz (Eric); 11 grandchildren; and 23 great-grandchildren; and also predeceased by a daughter, Jo List Levinson, and a grandchild. May her memory be for a blessing. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Board Chair
        LIST-Vera. It is with heartfelt sadness that the Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts mourn the passing of Vera List. As founding donors of Lincoln Center, Mrs. List and her late husband, Albert, were great philanthropists who inspired those who knew them. It was Vera's enthusiasm for art and sculpture that led to the creation of the List Art Poster Program as well as their donation of prominent sculpture on campus. Mrs. List was a vibrant, wonderful woman who enriched all our lives. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and many friends. Bruce Crawford, Chairman Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        LIST-Vera, The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater mourn the death of Vera List, as good a friend as a theater could ask for, who really enjoyed the work at this theater which she supported generously. We extend our sympathy to her family. Lincoln Center Theater John Beinecke, Chairman Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer
        LIST-Vera Glaser. The officers, staff and employees of Strahl & Pitsch Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Vera G. List. We wish to extend our heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Her love of art, music and all humankind shall live forever.
      