
        ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn with profound sadness the passing of Walter H. Annenberg, who for more than four decades demonstrated on a breathtaking scale his passion for art and his support of this institution. With his wife, Leonore, he based his philanthropy at the Metropolitan on the understanding that great museum collections remain great by continuing to evolve and to grow. Through a series of landmark gestures-gifts of works of art from masterpieces by Van Gogh to masterpieces of Asian sculpture, along with major grants for acquisitions-they have enhanced the very heart of the Metropolitan Museum, its collections, for generations to come. Walter Annenberg was involved in countless other ways as well: as a Trustee and benefactor; as a committed supporter of education in the arts; and as the donor of a major challenge grant that has enabled the Museum to build a new Center For Imaging and Photography. But his most spectacular gesture was the decision in 1991 to bequeath his collection of fifty-three Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings, watercolors, and drawings to the Museum, the largest single gift of art to the Metropolitan in more than a quarter century. Since 1993, this outstanding collection has been in residence at the Museum for six months of each year for all to enjoy. Walter's motto was ''strength to strength,'' and his legacy of sweeping generosity will be held dear by us and by the museum-going public in perpetuity. We extend our deepest condolences to Mrs. Annenberg and to the entire family. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director David E. McKinney, President
        ANNENBERG-Hon. Walter H. It is with deep sorrow that Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of Ambassador Walter H. Annenberg, whose life will forever be inscribed among the histories of our nations' greatest citizens. His years of service as our Ambassador to the Court of St. James were noteworthy by the wisdom and skill which he brought to that sensitive diplomatic post. Likewise, the worlds of learning and education have been immeasurably enriched by his on-going, caring concerns. He brought to his extraordinary philanthropy a unique creativeness, so much so that it is impossible to calculate how many millions of lives have been improved because of his peerless commitments. As in the worlds of education, so in the realms of art and beauty, his gifts have brought joy to the heart and delight to the eye. He walked among us as a caring, sensitive leader and the works of his hands will endure as monuments to the qualities that were the hallmarks of his inner being. With his beloved Leonore, and the other members of the family, we mourn his passing while giving thanks for his life. The memory of Ambassador Walter H. Annenberg will endure as a magnificent blessing. Dr. David M. Posner, Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi Emeritus Mr. Robert A. Bernhard, President Mr. Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        ANNENBERG-Walter H. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) deeply mourn the loss of Walter H. Annenberg of St. Davids, Pennsylvania, and Rancho Mirage, California. A media giant, statesman, and magnanimous philanthropist, Mr. Annenberg served as Ambassador to Great Britain and was awarded the United States Medal of Freedom. The ATS and the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology benefited from Mr. Annenberg's legendary generosity with unrestricted funding, which was used to recruit talented new faculty. The Ambassador and his wife, Leonore, were Technion Guardians, signifying the highest level of commitment. Ambassador Annenberg was awarded an honorary doctorate of science from the Technion on the occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the ATS in 1991. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Leonore, and the entire Annenberg family. American Technion Society Evelyn Berger, President Lawrence S. Jackier, Chairman, Board of Directors Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Zahava Bar-Nir, President, Greater Philadelphia Chapter Lee Zeplowitz, Chairman, Greater Philadelphia Chapter Ivan Schonfeld, Director, Eastern Seaboard Region
        ANNENBERG-Walter. The American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Walter Annenberg, a distinguished American and dedicated friend of The Hebrew University. Ambassador Annenberg received an honorary doctorate from The Hebrew University and was an esteemed Benefactor. He supported many vital initiatives, including Hebrew University scholarship funds, the American Studies program, the D. Walter Cohen Center for Middle East Dentistry, and the Keith L. Sachs Computer Science Wing. His concern for the people of Israel and commitment to higher education will long be remembered. We extend our deepest condolences to the Annenberg family. American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chairman of the Board Peter T. Willner, Executive Vice President The Hebrew University Of Jerusalem Prof. Menachem Magidor, President Prof. Haim Rabinowitch, Rector Yigal Arnon, Chairman of The Board of Governors
      