
        KARTEN-Julia. Of Spring Valley and New York City died on October 5 at Mt. Sinai Hospital. She was surrounded by her beloved children and grandchildren. Only 16 at the outset of WWII, Julia, who met her husband Isidore in the Polish underground, fought by his side in the Jewish Resistance. Coming to America with only a borrowed blouse on her back, Julia managed to rebuild her life. Landing at Pier 56 in New York Harbor, at 20 years of age with a newborn child, no close relatives and not a word of English, Julia became the nurturing life force at the center of her family. She was truly a woman of valor. Equally adept at running a business as she was at running a home, she brought her intelligence, sensitivity, artistic talent, and concern for people to everything she did, whether it was volunteering to be a Girl Scout leader or managing a successful textile business and a high-rise apartment building in the heart of Manhattan. But one of Julia's biggest sense of achievements came from her and Izzy's active involvement in a multitude of philanthropies, including education in the form of scholarships, Benefactor of the International Society of the Yad Vashem both in America and Israel, as well as the endless donations to hospitals, schools, and synagogues around the world. Julia is survived by her loving children, Berne and Jim Bookhamer, Marcia and Yakov Toledano, and Harry and Danielle Karten as well as her eight dedicated grandchildren. She was above all a strong, courageous woman who fought until the end. Funeral services will be held on Monday, October 7, at 12:30 PM at Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67th Street. Donations can be made to the Alzheimers Foundation, the Scholarship Fund at Park East Day School and the American Diabetes Foundation.
        KARTEN-Julia. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member Julia Karten, matriarch of the Karten family, Holocaust survivor, who with her late husband, Trustee Isidore Karten, were benefactors of our Synagogue. Together they transmitted to their children Berne (James) Bookhamer, Harry (Danielle) Karten, Marcia (Yakov) Toledano, a love for Torah and the Jewish people. May they and their children find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Services at Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67th Street, Monday, October 7, 12:30 PM. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        KARTEN-Julia. The Board of Trustees, administration and faculty extend their deepest sympathy to Trustee Harry (Danielle) Karten on the loss of his beloved mother, Julia Karten, and to her daughters Berne (James) Bookhamer and Marcia (Yakov) Toledano. The generosity of the Karten family has strengthened Jewish education and has benefited the children of our day school. Our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School
      