
        LABALME-Patricia Hochschild. On October 11, 2002, at the age of 75. She was the wife of George Labalme Jr., mother of Jennifer R. Labalme, Henry G. Labalme, Lisa G. Osterland & Victoria A. Labalme, grandmother of six, and sister of Ann H. Poole, all of whom mourn her passing. A graduate of the Brearley School and Magna Cum Laude graduate of Bryn Mawr, she held an M.A. and Ph.D. from Harvard, where she was awarded the Caroline A. Wilby prize for her doctoral dissertation as ''the best original work in any department.'' Among her many professional activities, Patricia Labalme was Associate Director of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, NJ, (1982-1988) and Secretary of the Corporation (1982-1992). From 1992-1997, she was Assistant to the Director, Dr. Phillip A. Griffiths. Most recently, she was a Visitor in the School of Historical Studies, at the IAS. Known also for her dedication to independent school education, she was, among her many affiliations, president of the Brearley Board of Trustees (1978-1982). She was also a trustee of the Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation (1979Present), the American Academy in Rome (1979-1999), the first female trustee of the Lawrenceville School (1985-1996), and a trustee of the Renaissance Society of America (1982-Present). She was also a member of the Ateneo Veneto and the Istituto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti, both in Venice, and Director of the Quantum Chemical Corporation. Her passion for humanism was formed by her lifelong friendships with professors Werner Jaeger, Myron P. Gilmore, Helen Maud Cam, Paul Oskar Kristeller, Vittore Branca and Felix Gilbert. It was Gilbert, her professor at Bryn Mawr and her colleague at the IAS, who, after three decades of encouragement, persuaded her to start her book on Marino Sanudo's diaries. At the time of her death, Dr. Labalme was close to completing this book, which received initial funding from the NEH. The book will be published posthumously under a unique arrangement in which the IAS has created a special position, a Director's Visitor, to be held by Professor Laura S. White, who will oversee the book's completion. A private service was held at the family home in West Cornwall, CT, on October 14. A memorial service will be held at the Marciana Library in Venice. In addition, a New York City memorial service will be held at the Brearley School at a later date to be announced. Contributions in lieu of flowers can be made to the Brearley School, attention: Alumnae Office, 610 East 83rd Street, New York, New York 10028, for the benefit of faculty salaries.
        LABALME-Patricia Hochschild. The Brearley School deeply mourns the passing of a beloved member of our community. The School will be forever grateful to Dr. Labalme for her clear vision and leadership over more than six decades. A Brearley Alumna in the Class of 1944, the mother of three Brearley daughters, and a former member of the Brearley History Department, Dr. Labalme was a member of the Board of Trustees from 1975 to 1983, was Board President from 1978 to 1982, and continued as an Honorary Trustee until her death. She served the School with vitalizing energy and purpose in many capacities including Chairman of Special Gifts in The Capital Fund Program (1975-78), and Chair of Alumnae Giving in the Centennial Fund Campaign (1982-85). She was the recipient in 1987 of the Frances Riker Davis Award, the school's highest alumnae honor. Paraphrasing her own remarks to the Brearley community as Board President twenty years ago, we say to her: ''thank you for being there...for the vibrant, striving world you have helped to make and of which you were an essential part.''
        LABALME - Patricia. The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the passing of Patricia Hochschild Labalme, beloved wife of our friend George Labalme, Jr. Hers was a remarkable life, and she will be greatly missed. On behalf of our colleagues, we wish to express our heartfelt condolences to the Labalme family. Thomas P. Sakmar, Acting President, The Rockefeller University Barry S. Coller, Physician-in-Chief Emil C. Gotschlich, Vice President for Medical Sciences Jules Hirsch, Physician-in-Chief Emeritus John B. Zabriskie Assoc. Professor Emeritus The Rockefeller University Hospital
        LABALME - Patsy. Peter Martins, the board of directors, dancers and staff of New York City Ballet honor the memory of Patsy Labalme, a gallant lady whose intelligence, integrity and generosity served her well as she guided The Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation in fulfilling its mission. Her accomplishments were many, particularly in the academic arena; but we will remember most her enthusiasm and love for the arts. To her devoted family and husband, George, we offer our heartfelt sympathy.
        LABALME - Patricia. The Brooklyn Academy of Music mourns the loss of a good friend and a great supporter of the arts. Karen Brooks Hopkins President
      