
        GREEN-S. William (Bill). On October 14, 2002. Beloved husband of Patricia (nee Freiberg). Devoted and cherished father of Cathy Green and Louis Green. Dear brother of Cynthia Green Colin. Fond brother-in-law of Carole and Marvin Leichtung. Loving uncle of nieces, Julie, Laura, Ann and Betsy, and nephew, Jim. A native of New York City, he served his city and his country in many capacities, both before and after representing the East Side of Manhattan in the House of Representatives from 1978 to 1992. He was a graduate and loyal alumnus of Harvard College and Harvard Law School. Visiting at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., on Tuesday, October 15, and Wednesday, October 16, from 7 PM-9 PM. Services Thursday, October 17, at 11:30 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
        GREEN-The Honorable S. William. The Board and Staff of The Jewish Association For Services For The Aged note with profound sadness the passing of its Associate Chairman and Past President. A Founding Trustee of JASA, he and his family played a critical leadership role in its creation. A generous and insightful philanthropist, his giving often provided the seed money that led to the creation of housing, senior centers, and special programs for the frail and vulnerable elderly. Throughout his distinguished career in public service-in The New York State Assembly, at The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and in The U.S. Congress-he was a leading advocate for the development of affordable housing. At JASA, he was a key member of The Building, Sites and Housing Committee, and provided pivotal support for major housing developments for the elderly including The Evelyn and Louis A. Green Residences in Far Rockaway and at Cooper Square in Manhattan. Bill Green was a quiet, caring, compassionate and totally honest individual who possessed a powerful intellect and clarity of vision. He was someone you could count on, and we all did. We will miss his wise counsel, and gentle spirit. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Patricia, his children, Catherine and Louis, and his sister, Cynthia Green Colin. Leonard Boxer, President Marilyn Friedman, Chair David J. Stern, Executive V.P.
        GREEN-S. William. The Trustees, faculty and staff of New School University mourn the loss of devoted Trustee, Bill Green. A Trustee of the University since 1986, Bill Green began his affiliation in 1969 as a member of the Board of Governors of the University's Robert J. Milano Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy. As Chair of that Governing Board from 1993-2001, he reinforced the School's commitment to the City of New York, increased the visibility of critical urban issues in its academic and public programs, and created a fellowship program to ensure access to the School for women and minority students. His passion for public service and social justice resonated profoundly with the values that animate the Milano Graduate School and the University. Bill Green shaped and strengthened New School University with his farsightedness, personal generosity and intelligent support. We will greatly miss his steadfast friendship, sage counsel, and his endearing presence as a member of our community. We convey our heartfelt condolences to his wife Patricia, daughter, Catherine Ann and son, Louis Matthew. Philip Scaturro, Chairman, Board of Trustees Bob Kerrey, President, New School University Edward J. Blakely, Dean, Robert J. Milano Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy
        GREEN-S. William. The President, the Board of Trustees, and the entire Montefiore community deeply mourn the death of our esteemed colleague, The Honorable S. William Green. A great man and a dear friend, he served as a member of The U.S. House of Representatives from 1978 to 1993 where his wise leadership and steady resolve helped guide the country through a period of great change. His keen interest in advancing social and scientific issues such as women's rights and AIDS research, won him the respect of the entire New York community. As a devoted member of The Montefiore Board of Trustees since 1962, Bill Green was deeply committed to improving the quality of health of the more than 1.5 million New Yorkers we serve. A man of both vision and compassion, he combined his extraordinary skills in politics, business and philanthropy to enrich the lives of so many. To his wife Pat, his son Louis and daughter Catherine Ann, we extend our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences. Spencer Foreman, M.D., President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Montefiore Medical Center
        GREEN-Hon. S. William. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of William Green, former United States representative, beloved husband of Patricia, dear brother of Cynthia, and a cherished friend. An inspired leader, Bill was a founding trustee of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged, a trustee of Montefiore Medical Center, and a leader in Federation's Wall Street Division. He and his sister, Cynthia Green Colin, continue the philanthropic legacy of their parents, Evelyn and Louis Green. Bill strongly supported Israel and the rescue of Soviet Jews. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Patricia; children, Catherine and Louis; sister, Cynthia; and extended family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        GREEN-Hon. S. William. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York mourns the passing of our distinguished member Hon. S. William Green. In the words of King David, he was a man ''of clean hands and a pure heart.'' As a member of the House of Representatives, he cared for our community as a shepherd tended his flock. He leaves behind a legacy of dedication and commitment that will forever be an inspiration. To his family, we extend our deepest sympathies. May his memory always remain a blessing. Dr. David M. Posner, Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi Emeritus Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
        GREEN-S. William. The National Abortion & Reproductive Rights Action League of New York mourns the loss of Bill Green, friend, colleague and pro-choice champion throughout his years of service in the United States Congress. As a representative from Manhattan, Bill was a progressive Republican who set a national example for his party, taking pro-choice positions and supporting reproductive rights for all women. He was our standard bearer within his party, and we will deeply miss his eloquent, committed and passionate voice. We send our heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathy to Bill's family.
        GREEN-Hon. S. William (Bill). The Directors, officers and staff of General American Investors Company, Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague, Bill Green, who served the Company with great dedication for ten years as a Director. His wisdom, judgment and counsel were highly regarded by the Board. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Patricia, to his sister, Cynthia Green Colin, to his children, Cathy and Louis, and to other members of his family. Lawrence B. Buttenwieser, Chairman, Board of Directors
        GREEN-Bill. It is with tremendous sadness that Planned Parenthood of New York City (PPNYC) notes the death of our distinguished and beloved Honorary Board Member, former Congressman Bill Green. In Congress, he exerted his extraordinary intelligence and skill to become an acknowledged leader and champion for reproductive rights for all women. PPNYC extends heartfelt sympathy to his family. Cathy Cramer, Chair, Board of Directors Joan Malin, President & CEO
        GREEN-Bill. The Board of Directors and staff of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council profoundly mourn the death of its esteemed Board member and friend. Bill Green was admired by all of us associated with CHPC for his exceptional intelligence, unqualified integrity and staunch dedication to the people of New York. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Patricia, and the Green family. James Lipscomb, Chairman Marvin Markus, President Frank Braconi, Exec. Dir.
        GREEN-Bill. Congressman & dear friend. His 73 years were devoted to public service of the highest caliber. As an Assemblyman, Congressman, and a leader of the progressive wing of the Republican party, he served his nation, his state, his city and his party with honor and distinction. He truly will be missed. John Ravitz, chairman Gertrude Hess Parker, executive secretary New York Republican County Committee
        GREEN-S. William. Commercial Capital Corporation mourns the passing of Bill Green, a great American, distinguished attorney and a public servant of the highest integrity. Bill was a longtime Director and steadfast supporter of our company. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Pat, his sister Cynthia, and the entire Green family. Charles Freeman, Chairman Craig Reynolds, Director
        GREEN-Bill. The Trustees and Staff of the Taconic Foundation record with immense sorrow the death of our longtime colleague, Bill Green. He brought to our counsels-as he did to all the other institutions he served, in and out of public life-his commanding intelligence, unending thoughtfulness, valorous independence and a passionate pursuit of the public interest. To his family we extend our profound sympathy.
        GREEN-Congressman Bill. For his years of extraordinary leadership in the U.S. House of Representatives, his lifetime of service to the people of the State of New York and his stalwart support of a woman's right to reproductive freedom. Beloved husband of our long time board member, Pat Green. The Republican Pro-Choice Coalition
      