
        FRIEDMAN-Murray. He is best known for his building of a company that was the largest importer of men's fashion footwear in the U.S., and that enabled innumerable families to partake of the fruits of its success. He was ''Murfrini,'' the King. As a salesman he was unstoppable. His charities were legion: The Murray Friedman Foundation of 210 Associates, Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County, Associate Trustee of North Shore University Hospital, Founder of Westhampton Synagogue, Lion of Judah Palm Beach, Cystic Fibrosis, and The Holocaust Museum. He leaves a legacy of unconditional love and respect by all who knew him.
        FRIEDMAN-Murray. There was a man! Once in a while, there is someone whose beautiful spirit and caring heart make a difference in the lives of so many. Generous to a fault, creative, wonderful husband to Evelyn, fabulous father to Jackie and Kathy, David and Dennis, loving grandfather to Jamie, Jodi, Jason and Kim, and faithful friend. We shall not see his likes again. Funeral service Monday October 7, 12 o'clock, Temple Sinai, Roslyn, NY.
        FRIEDMAN - Murray. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member, Murray Friedman. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn Monday, October 7, at 12 noon. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan Emeritus Toni Wiener, President
        FRIEDMAN-Murray. Founder and Chairman of the Board of Harbor Footwear Group. He will be remembered by all as a legend in the shoe industry, a mentor and philanthropist. His energy, enthusiasm, passion and unique vision will always be the driving force behind Harbor. We will miss his support and guidance. He will be forever in our hearts. The Harbor Footwear Family
        FRIEDMAN - Murray. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of our esteemed Benefactor. To his beloved wife Evelyn and to the entire family, our heartfelt sympathy. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Pres. Seymour G. Siegel, Treas.
      