
        RUBEN - Selma. Cherished wife of Lawrence. Beloved mother of Richard, Lenore and Rochelle. Adored grandmother of Tamara, Danielle, William, Andrew, Melissa, Robert, James, Allison and Caroline. Devoted sister and sister-in-law of Robert Belfer, Renee Belfer, Jack Saltz and the late Anita Saltz. Her passion for life and dedication to her family were unsurpassed. Funeral services will be Monday, 1:15 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in her memory may be made to Memorial Sloan - Kettering Hospital, New York Hospital or Rockefeller University to further the cause of cancer research.
        RUBEN-Selma. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of a most valued and esteemed friend, who, with her husband, Lawrence, was a Founder and dedicated supporter of our institution over many years. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband, to her brother, Robert A. Belfer, chairperson of the Einstein Board of Overseers, to her children, Richard Ruben, Lenore Ruben, and Rochelle Kivell, to her nine grandchildren, and to the entire family. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean, Albert Einsten College of Medicine Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Emeritus, Board of Overseers, Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ronald Stanton, Chairman, Board of Trustees, Yeshiva University
        RUBEN-Selma. We mourn the passing of Selma Ruben. She is remembered for her strong spirit and enthusiasm for life. She exemplified the true meaning of the matriarch of a family; representing to us the kindess and charitable nature she instilled in her family. Her energy and joy for life was contagious. All who knew Selma admired her devotion to the humanities and health care and benefited from her wisdom. Our heartfelt sympathy to Lawrence, Richard, Lenore, Shelly and the entire family. Laura and Jon Mayblum
        RUBEN-Selma. The employees of Lawrence Ruben Company and their families honor the memory of Selma Ruben. A woman who was admired as an ambassador of goodwill, she exemplified the highest standards in all she did. She characteristically made a strong impression on all whom she came into contact with. We extend our deepest condolences to her husband Lawrence, children Richard, Lenore and Shelly, and her grandchildren.
        RUBEN-Selma. She was a guiding light that served as a beacon to the entire family. Her intellect was guided by her heart. May tender memories comfort her devoted husband Larry and their beloved children Richard, Shelly and Lenore and their families. It has been said that a heart is not judged by how many it loves, but rather by how many it is loved by. Selma, loved by my heart, and by so many others. Diane Belfer
        RUBEN-Selma. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, FL, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend Selma Ruben and extend our sincerest condolences to her husband, and our esteemed member, Lawrence, and their family. Robert P. Adler President Boca Rio Golf Club, Inc.
        RUBEN-Selma. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Selma Ruben, and extend to her bereaved husband Lawrence, and the members of her family, our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary
        RUBEN-Selma. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of our longtime member Selma Ruben and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Amy S. Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi
        RUBEN-Selma. We will always remember the good times that we shared together. Your courage, strength, wisdom and integrity will always be an inspiration to us. Sandy and Herb Bernstein
      