
        DESKIN-Claire. The Board of Directors and staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the loss of Claire Deskin, mother of longtime Board member, Michael Steinhardt. Our hearts and prayers are with Mr. Steinhardt and his wife, Judy; their sons, David and Daniel; their daughter, Sara Berman, chair of the Y's Makor/Steinhardt Center committee, and the entire Steinhardt family. She will be greatly missed by all who knew her. Matthew Bronfman President Philip Milstein, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director Deborah Nadel Magee Acting Director Makor/Steinhardt Center David Gedzelman Creative & Rabbinic Director Makor Program
        DESKIN-Claire. The Tel Aviv University:American Council extend our sincere condolences to Michael Steinhardt and his family on the passing of his beloved mother Claire Deskin. Adored by her daughter-in-law Judy, her grandchildren David, Daniel and Sara, Mrs. Deskin devoted herself to her only child Michael and provided unconditional love and affection to the entire family, which was returned by them in full measure. Michael Steinhardt is Chairman of the Tel Aviv University International Board of Governors. Our thoughts and prayers are with him and the family during this time of sorrow. Joel Tauber, National Chrmn Sam Witkin, Exec V.P.
        DESKIN-Claire. The staff of Jewish Life Network/Steinhardt Foundation mourns the loss of Claire Deskin, beloved mother of our Chairman, Michael H. Steinhardt. Claire, the embodiment of Jewish valor and joy, raised Michael with extraordinary courage and devotion. She serves as an eternal inspiration to her son and to all who work to spread Jewish values and teachings. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Michael, Judy, Daniel, David and Sara. May Claire's memory be a blessing and may the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Irving Greenberg, President
        DESKIN-Claire. The Aleph Society extends deepest condolences to Michael Steinhardt and the entire family upon the passing of its matriarch. The legacy of her loving kindness continues through the good deeds and the grace of her children and grandchildren. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz Jack Nash, Chairman Ludwig Bravmann, President
        DESKIN-Claire. The Israel Museum Family and New York and Jerusalem is deeply saddened by the death of Claire Deskin, mother of our friend Michael Steinhardt. Claire was a Woman of Valor; strong, generous and giving. Our heartfelt condolences to Michael and Judy, David and Daniel, and Sara and David. Barbara Lane, Pres AFIM James S. Snyder, Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir, IM Carolyn Cohen, Exec Dir, AFIM
        DESKIN - Claire. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish HeritageA Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of Claire Deskin, beloved mother of our Trustee Michael Steinhardt. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Michael and his family. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chairman David G. Marwell, Director
        DESKIN-Claire. The entire Livnot family extends its heartfelt condolences to Michael Steinhardt and family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Irving Bernstein, Chair Aharon Botzer, Exec. Dir.
      