
        ANNENBERG - Ambassador Walter H. The Trustees and staff of the University of Pennsylvania are deeply saddened by the death of Walter H. Annenberg, an Emeritus Trustee and a member of the Joint Committee of the Trustees of our Annenberg School for Communication. Ambassador Annenberg was a loyal alumnus and dedicated benefactor who, with his wife, Leonore, made contributions of profound importance to the University and society. We remain forever indebted to him for his generosity and vision in founding on our campus in 1958 the Annenberg School for Communication, to promote the highest standards of professionalism and ethics in the fields of communication and journalism. By adding substantially to the original endowment through the Annenberg Foundation, to support among other things the Annenberg Institute for the Study of Democratic Institutions and Goverment and the Institute for Adolescent Risk Communication, he ensured the school's vitality and efficacy well into the future. Further demonstrating his commitment to higher education, he established 16 professorships at Penn, thereby strengthening schools, centers, and programs throughout the University. He funded the Annenberg Scholars to provide financial assistance to students who would not otherwise be able to afford undergraduate and graduate education. In addition, he was instrumental in the founding of the Center for Advanced Judaic Studies, the only institution in the world devoted exclusively to post-doctoral research on Jewish civilization in all its historical and cultural manifestations. He also founded here in 1970 the Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, which continues to serve the University and the greater Philadelphia community. Walter Annenberg's name is forever linked to the history of this institution, having dramatically increased its ability to advance learning and culture throughout the world. The Penn community mourns the death of our friend and extends our profound sympathy to Leonore Annenberg and to the entire Annenberg family. Judith Rodin, President James Riepe, Chairman
        ANNENBERG-Walter. The Peddie School is deeply saddened by the death of Walter H. Annenberg, our beloved alumnus, benefactor and friend. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Lee, the Annenberg family, and our friends at the Annenberg Foundation. His loyalty and generosity to his alma mater were unparalleled. Countless Peddie students are grateful for the education he made possible. Finn M. W. Caspersen Chairman of the Board John Green, Head of School The Peddie Community
        ANNENBERG - Ambassador Walter H. The Trustees, Staff and Members of the National Museum of American Jewish History (NMAJH) in Philadelphia mourn the loss of one of the world's leading philanthropists. His extraordinary international generosity benefited museums, institutions and humanitarian needs. We extend symapthy to his wife Lee and family. D. Walter Cohen, Chairman Myles Tanenbaum, President Gwen Goodman, Dir./CEO
      