
        SCHLEUNING - Dorothea Mae (nee Smeltzer). Died October 1, 2002, at her home in Ramsey, NJ. She was born October 7, 1906, daughter of Chester A. Smeltzer, former Mayor of Ramsey and Bergen County Freeholder and Mary Elizabeth Winters, a descendant of 17th Century Bergen County families, James Christie, a dispatch writer in the American Revolution and James Young, Esq. of Campgaw, a writer of biblical commentaries. Her late husband Hubert Schleuning, Professor of Physics at Polytechnic University of Brooklyn, predeceased her in 1998. They had been married 66 years. She grew up in Brooklyn, NY, graduated from Mount Holyoke College in 1928 an economics major. She was president of her class, won the ''Venus'' Cup for physical excellence and sang in the glee club. She was awarded the Alumnae Medal of Honor for her services to the college and was a member of the New York and Bergen County Mount Holyoke Clubs. After living in Brooklyn for 40 years, she and her husband moved in 1971 to the Winters/Smeltzer family home in Ramsey built in 1889. Following graduation she joined R.H. Macy's Training Squad and became a lingerie buyer for Macy's. After her marriage she became an active volunteer for Children's Services of the Salvation Army, serving for 60 years. For many years she was a lay member of their Board, retiring recently as an Honorary member. After moving to Ramsey, she and her husband became members of the First Presbyterian Church of Ramsey. In 1976 she and her sister published their father's posthumous book ''The Birth of Ramsey.'' She is survived by her sister Marjorie Smeltzer-Stevenot of Sloatsburg, NY, niece Margot Stevenot Graettinger, her husband, John S. Graettinger Jr. and their children Mary Elizabeth, John Smeltzer and Anna Graettinger of Wilmette, IL, and relatives of her husband's family. Interment of cremains will be private. A celebration of her life will be held on October 26, 2002, at 2 PM at the First Presbyterian Church. Memorial donations may be made to the First Presbyterian Church, Shuart Lane, Ramsey, NJ. For more information call the Van Emburgh - Sneider Funeral Home, Ramsey, NJ, 201327-0030.
      