
        MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J. On behalf of the Board of Directors, Administration, and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc., we mourn the passing of our longtime Board member. Monsignor Murray served on the hospital Board of Directors since 1973. He gave generously of his time as a member of the Finance and Nominating Committees of the hospital Board. His commitment to the special mission of Calvary Hospital, and his dedication and leadership contributed enormously to the growth and success of the hospital program of care. Monsignor Murray's wisdom and vision was instrumental in the strategic planning of Calvary's move to its present location in the Northeast Bronx in 1978. We will miss Monsignor Murray, both as a loyal Board member and a member of the Calvary Family. We extend our condolences to his family. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., MD, Chairman of the Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President/ Chief Executive Officer Michael J. Brescia, MD, Executive Medical Director James E. Cimino, MD, Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute Christopher P. Comfort, MD Medical Director Richard J. Kutilek, Chief Operating Officer Frank J. Locaparra, Chief Financial Officer
        MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J. The Board of Directors of Calvary Fund, Inc., mourn with sadness the loss of its Board member and colleague, Rev. Monsignor James J. Murray. His dedicated, loyal efforts on behalf of the Fund and Calvary Hospital inspired us all. His commitment to the mission of Calvary Hospital contributed to the success of two capital campaigns and to the opening of the first ''hospital within a hospital'' in New York State-Calvary Hospital-The Brooklyn Campus at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn, NY. We are thankful for all that Monsignor Murray has helped to achieve for Calvary Hospital. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Richard E. Meyer, Chairman Calvary Fund, Inc., Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President Calvary Fund/ Calvary Hospital Vincent J. Spinelli, Executive Vice President Calvary Fund, Inc. Roy Clary, Senior Director of Development
        MURRAY - Monsignor James J. The Board of Directors, Advisory Board, Carmelite Sisters and Guild, Residents, Staff and Volunteers mourn the loss of a dedicated Board member, faithful priest and beloved friend. We extend our prayers to his dear family. A gift of Gregorian Masses will be offered for the Repose of his soul. Board of Directors Sisters, Residents and Staff St. Patrick's Home
        MURRAY - Monsignor James J. On the sad occasion of the passing of our dear colleague and friend, the Board of Trustees and staff of the Catholic Health Care System extend deepest sympathies to the family of Monsignor James J. Murray. We are thankful for his many gifts to us and wish him the Lord's eternal peace. Karl P. Adler, M.D. Chairman of the Board Catholic Health Care System
        MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James. The Board of Directors, employees and volunteers of The Catholic Big Sisters mourn the passing of Monsignor Murray, a former Board member. His faith, wisdom and kindness will be missed. Margaret C. Sheridan President, Board of Directors
      