
        RUBEN - Selma. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and the Mount Sinai Hospital are saddened by the passing of Selma Ruben. Her personal generosity, and the generosity of her family included important contributions for medical research and health care. Selma Ruben also shared our deep commitment to improving the lives of those suffering from cancer, and together with her husband, Lawrence, established the Rochelle Belfer Chemotherapy Foundation Laboratory at Mount Sinai. We extend our sincere condolences to her husband, Lawrence, to her children, and to the entire family. Peter W. May, Chairman of the Board Mount Sinai Medical Center Kenneth I. Berns, M.D., Ph.D. President and Chief Executive Officer Mount Sinai Medical Center Nathan G. Kase, M.D., Interim Dean Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        RUBEN-Selma. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the loss of Selma Ruben. An active member of the Museum, her devotion to philanthropic causes, along with her commitment and energy, not only expressed the extraordinary compassion of her individual character, but were representative of the leadership and extensive involvement of both the Ruben and Belfer families. Both her and her families' commitment to and support of the Museum have served as one of the foundations of its growth. To her husband, Lawrence, children and grandchildren, her brother, Robert A. Belfer, and his wife, Renee, and to all other family members, we extend our deepest condolences. Fred S. Zeidman, Chairman Ruth B. Mandel, Vice Chair Sara J. Bloomfield, Director United States Holocaust Memorial Museum
        RUBEN-Selma. The Board of Trustees of the Central Park Conservancy mourns the loss of Selma Ruben, a friend and generous benefactor of Central Park. Mrs. Ruben, along with her late sister, Anita Saltz, and her brother, Robert Belfer, restored the West 84th Street Playground and established an endowment for its care in memory of their parents, Arthur and Rochelle Belfer. The children of New York will forever benefit from Mrs. Ruben's kindness, and we extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. The Board of Trustees, Central Park Conservancy A.J.C. Smith, Chairman Regina S. Peruggi, President
        RUBEN-Selma. We will always miss you at our bridge games and we will remember all the other wonderful times we had together. Our sympathy to Larry, Richard, Lenore, Shelly and the entire family. Barbara, Carol, Dale, Pat
        RUBEN-Selma. Our condolences to our neighbor and long time Board member, Lawrence Ruben, and his family. We'll all miss the warmth Selma brought to our building. The Board, Neighbors and Staff
        RUBEN-Selma. I will lovingly remember and so miss our walks and talks together. Clarissa
      