
        LIST-Vera Glaser, 94. Of Greenwich, CT, on October 10, 2002. Survived by three daughters and their spouses, Carol and Eric Schwartz of Denver, CO, Olga and George Mack of NYC, and Viki Laura List of Rosemont, PA. Also survived by 11 grandchildren and 23 great-grandchildren. Predeceased by her husband, Albert A., daughter, Jo List Levinson, grandson, Michael Israel and brother, Samuel. Services Sunday, 9:30 AM, at List Hall, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, NYC. Burial, Fall River, MA. Shiva at the Macks, 980 5th Ave. (79th St.), on Monday and Tuesday, 1-5 and 7-9 PM, and at 201 Byram Shore Road, Greenwich, CT. Wednesday, 1-6 P.M. Inquiries to Plaza Jewish Memorial Chapel, 212769-4400. In lieu of flowers, make donations to the Vera List Scholarship Fund at the New School University, 66 West 12th Street, NY, NY 10011, would be appreciated.
        LIST - Vera Glaser. The Trustees and staff of New School University mark with deep sadness the death of Vera G. List, a Life Trustee, who served the New School for over forty years with dedication, generosity of spirit, abiding loyalty to its educational traditions and unwavering support to the task of building the university. Few individuals have meant so much to an institution as has Vera List to the New School. Her intellectual breadth, wisdom and imagination have touched virtually every aspect of this university-its academic programs and divisions, identification with the arts, faculty support and endowed lectureships, facilities, student fellowships and services, and its commitment to human rights. A woman with rare and unique gifts, Vera List stands out promenitly in the tradition of bold people whose courage, moral fortitude, and commitment have built and sustained this institution, and who has inspired all of us to do better. We have lost a priceless friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to daughter Carol and Eric Schwartz, daughter Olga and George Mack, and daughter Viki Laura List, her grandchildren, and her greatgrandchildren. Philip Scaturro Chairman, Board of Trustees Bob Kerrey, President New School University
        LIST-Vera G. The Metropolitan Opera mourns with profound sadness our devoted friend, Vera G. List. An Advisory Director since 1988, her commitment to music and the arts was reflected by her regular presence in the Opera House and her generous contributions as a founder of The Met's Golden Horseshoe. Vera List had a deep interest in developing young audiences, and her gift through the Albert A. List Foundation to the company's Silver Anniversary Fund endowed the distribution of free tickets for students. In recognition of a leadership gift from the Albert A. List Foundation to Lincoln Center, The Metropolitan Opera named List Hall in the Opera House, the auditorium familiar to opera-lovers around the world for the intermission features transmitted from it each Saturday during our ChevronTexaco - Metropoli tan Opera International Radio Broadcasts. We extend our deepest condolences to her daughters, Viki List, Olga Mack and Carol Schwartz, and their families. Mrs Gilbert W. Humphrey, Chairman Emeritus Bruce Crawford, Honorary Chairman James W. Kinnear, Chairman Paul M. Montrone, President Joseph Volpe, General Manager
        LIST-Vera G. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the passing of Vera G. List, a generous benefactress, and the wife of the late Albert A. List, who served Mount Sinai as a member of the Board of Trustees with distinctions for 23 years. Vera List's personal generosity and the generosity of the List family included creation of the Albert A. and Vera G. List Professor of Medicine (Hematology), establishment of the Vera G. List Visiting Lectureship in Medicine and Hematology, and important support for the MD/PhD program and the Department of Psychiatry. Mrs. List will be remembered fondly, and with gratitude, for her generosity. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Peter W. May, Chairman of the Board, The Mount Sinai Medical Center Kenneth I. Berns, MD, PhD, President and Chief Executive Officer, The Mount Sinai Medical Center Nathan Kase, MD, Interim Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        LIST-Vera. It is with heartfelt sadness that the Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts mourn the passing of Vera List. As founding donors of Lincoln Center, Mrs. List and her late husband, Albert, were great philanthropists who inspired those who knew them. It was Vera's enthusiasm for art and sculpture that led to the creation of the List Art Poster Program as well as their donation of prominent sculpture on campus. Mrs. List was a vibrant, wonderful woman who enriched all our lives. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and many friends. Bruce Crawford, Chairman Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        LIST-Vera. The Board and staff of the New Museum of Contemporary Art mourn the loss of Trustee Emerita and benefactor, Vera List. Mrs. List's sense of adventure, her curiosity and wisdom, and her generous spirit, helped guide the Museum during its formative years. Her contributions established a solid foundation on which to build and continued to sustain the Museum at important points throughout its history. Our mission reflects her commitment to supporting new and challenging art, and we will always honor her love of artists and unconventional ideas. We extend our sincere condolences to her family.
        LIST-Vera, The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater mourn the death of Vera List, as good a friend as a theater could ask for, who really enjoyed the work at this theater which she supported generously. We extend our sympathy to her family. Lincoln Center Theater John Beinecke, Chairman Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer
        LIST-Vera Glaser. The officers, staff and employees of Strahl & Pitsch Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Vera G. List. We wish to extend our heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Her love of art, music and all humankind shall live forever.
      