
        ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn with profound sadness the passing of Walter H. Annenberg, who for more than four decades demonstrated on a breathtaking scale his passion for art and his support of this institution. With his wife, Leonore, he based his philanthropy at the Metropolitan on the understanding that great museum collections remain great by continuing to evolve and to grow. Through a series of landmark gestures-gifts of works of art from masterpieces by Van Gogh to masterpieces of Asian sculpture, along with major grants for acquisitions-they have enhanced the very heart of the Metropolitan Museum, its collections, for generations to come. Walter Annenberg was involved in countless other ways as well: as a Trustee and benefactor; as a committed supporter of education in the arts; and as the donor of a major challenge grant that has enabled the Museum to build a new Center for Imaging and Photography. But his most spectacular gesture was the decision in 1991 to bequeath his collection of fifty-three Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings, watercolors, and drawings to the Museum, the largest single gift of art to the Metropolitan in more than a quarter century. Since 1993, this outstanding collection has been in residence at the Museum for six months of each year for all to enjoy. Walter's motto was ''strength to strength,'' and his legacy of sweeping generosity will be held dear by us and by the museum-going public in perpetuity. We extend our deepest condolences to Mrs. Annenberg and to the entire family. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director David E. McKinney, President
        ANNENBERG - Ambassador Walter H. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Ambassador Walter H. Annenberg, cherished and devoted benefactor of the Weizmann Institute and Honorary Regent of its American Committee. A past member of the ACWIS Board of Directors, Ambassador Annenberg's long association of support of the Weizmann Institute of Science began in 1947. Dr. Chaim Weizmann, the Institute's first president and the first president of Israel, considered Ambassador Annenberg one of the first close friends of the Institute in the United States. A member of the Weizmann Institute President's Circle, Ambassador Annenberg's many generous gifts to the Institute together with his family and foundation include the Walter H. Annenberg Fund for Brain Research, The Annenberg Foundation Fund for Instrumentation and The Annenberg Chair of High Energy Physics, established in memory of his mother, Mrs. Moses L. Annenberg by his sister, and held by the immediate past president of the Weizmann Institute, Prof. Haim Harari. A friend of the late Lord Marcus Sieff of Brimpton, Chancellor and Chairman Emeritus of Weizmann's Board of Governors, Ambassador Annenberg collaborated with Weizmann scientists and supported endeavors in many areas of research. We extend our deepest heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Robert H. Asher, Chairman American Committee Albert Willner, MD, President Martin S. Kraar, Exec VP Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Prof Ilan Chet, President Weizmann Institute of Science
        ANNENBERG-The Honorable Walter H. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine deeply mourn the passing of The Honorable Walter H. Annenberg, a renowned philanthropist, prominent statesman and communications executive. Ambassador Annenberg provided critical support during the creation and growth of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. His personal generosity, and the generosity of the Annenberg Family to the Medical School included naming the Annenberg Building to house the new School, and essential funds for student scholarships. In recognition of his outstanding leadership, the Mount Sinai School of Medicine granted him a Doctorate of Humane Letters. Walter Annenberg's commitment to education was extraordinary, and his munificence will long be remembered. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife, Leonore, and the entire Annenberg Family. Peter W. May, Chairman of the Board, The Mount Sinai Medical Center Kenneth I. Berns, MD, PhD, President and Chief Executive Officer, The Mount Sinai Medical Center Nathan G. Kase, MD, Interim Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Metropolitan Opera mourns with profound sadness the death of our friend Walter H. Annenberg. Together with his wife, Leonore, a Managing Director of The Met, Walter Annenberg was a dedicated and generous friend to The Metropolitan Opera for many years. The Annenbergs have brought new productions to life on The Met stage, including ''Andrea Chenier,'' ''Carmen'' and ''Il Trovatore,'' all of which are appearing in this season's repertory. They have also helped secure the financial future of our company through their support of our endowment campaign. Their unparalleled philanthropy to the great institutions of this country has benefited the cultural life of all Americans. The Metropolitan Opera is proud of their friendship and deeply appreciative of their generous commitment over the years. Our sincerest condolences to Lee Annenberg and to the entire family. Mrs. Gilbert W. Humphrey, Chairman Emeritus Bruce Crawford Honorary Chairman James W. Kinnear Chairman Mrs. Ezra K. Zilkha Vice Chairman Paul M. Montrone President Joseph Volpe General Manager
        ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Trustees of The Museum of Modern Art are deeply saddened by the news of Walter Annenberg's death. Only a handful of art collectors have ever assembled as many premier works as he did, and few have ever equalled the breadth of his connoisseurship. Over many years he and The Annenberg Foundation have given generously to MoMA in honor of his sister, Evelyn Hall, a Museum Trustee and, most recently, the Foundation became a Founder of our new Museum, presently under construction. Walter's generosity to the arts and education created a new level of philanthropy and reflected his wish to influence the aspects of life he most revered. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Lee, his sisters Evie Hall and Enid Haupt, and his entire family. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Agnus Gund, President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, New York
        ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Board, Staff and Members of the Friends of Art and Preservation in Embassies (FAPE) are deeply saddened by the death of Walter H. Annenberg. Walter, and his wife, Lee, FAPE's Chairman Emerita, were instrumental in our organization's founding in 1986, and have been among our most generous supporters. During his tenure as Ambassador to the Court of St. James, Walter, with Lee at his side, did much to advance the cause of dipolmacy and culture between our two countries. Their commitment to Winfield House, the U.S. Ambassador's residence in London, was extraordinary. We extend our most profound sympathy to Lee and to their family. Jo Carole Lauder, Chairman Ann L. Gund, President Jennifer A. Duncan, Acting Director
        ANNENBERG-Walter H. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Walter H. Annenberg, a cherished friend of this organization, a pillar in the world of philanthropy, and a testament to how one person can make the world a better place. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Lee; his daughter, Wallis; his surviving sisters, Evelyn Hall and Enid A. Haupt, both dear friends of UJA-Federation; and his entire extended family. May Walter's astounding legacy of helping the needy and enriching cultural institutions serve as a source of comfort during these difficult days of mourning. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Board Chair John S. Ruskay, Executive V.P. & C.E.O.
        ANNENBERG-Walter H. The board and staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America extend their deepest sympathy to Mrs. Annenberg, the entire Annenberg family and the staff of The Annenberg Foundation on the loss of our long time friend and benefactor, Walter H. Annenberg. His tireless efforts and affections for the Boys Scouts will be long remembered. John F. McGillicuddy, President John C. Whitehead, Co-Chairman Daniel R. Gasparo, Scout Executive
        ANNENBERG-Walter. The Officers and Board of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with deep sorrow the passing of our long-time friend and supporter, Walter Annenberg. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife and his entire family. Leo Hausman, Chairman UCP of NYC, Inc.
      