
        MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J. On behalf of the Board of Directors, Administration, and staff of Calvary Hospital, Inc., we mourn the passing of our longtime Board member. Monsignor Murray served on the hospital Board of Directors since 1973. He gave generously of his time as a member of the Finance and Nominating Committees of the hospital Board. His commitment to the special mission of Calvary Hospital, and his dedication and leadership contributed enormously to the growth and success of the hospital program of care. Monsignor Murray's wisdom and vision was instrumental in the strategic planning of Calvary's move to its present location in the Northeast Bronx in 1978. We will miss Monsignor Murray, both as a loyal Board member and a member of the Calvary Family. We extend our condolences to his family. Thomas J. Fahey, Jr., MD, Chairman of the Calvary Hospital Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President/ Chief Executive Officer Michael J. Brescia, MD, Executive Medical Director James E. Cimino, MD, Director of Calvary Palliative Care Institute Christopher P. Comfort, MD Medical Director Richard J. Kutilek, Chief Operating Officer Frank J. Locaparra, Chief Financial Officer
        MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J. The Board of Directors of Calvary Fund, Inc., mourn with sadness the loss of its Board member and colleague, Rev. Monsignor James J. Murray. His dedicated, loyal efforts on behalf of the Fund and Calvary Hospital inspired us all. His commitment to the mission of Calvary Hospital contributed to the success of two capital campaigns and to the opening of the first ''hospital within a hospital'' in New York State-Calvary Hospital-The Brooklyn Campus at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn, NY. We are thankful for all that Monsignor Murray has helped to achieve for Calvary Hospital. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Richard E. Meyer, Chairman Calvary Fund, Inc., Board of Directors Frank A. Calamari, President Calvary Fund/ Calvary Hospital Vincent J. Spinelli, Executive Vice President Calvary Fund, Inc. Roy Clary, Senior Director of Development
        MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J. The Board of Directors and staff of Kateri Residence mourn the loss of our beloved Rev. Msgr. James J. Murray, past Board Chairman and Director and friend. For over 25 years, Msgr. Murray served as Executive Director of Catholic Charities, with responsibility for hundreds of healthcare and social service organizations. During his tenure, he worked tirelessly to provide care and services to the most vulnerable among us in a dignified and compassionate manner. We treasure the memory of his leadership, vision and commitment. We thank God for his life with us, and we express our sincere condolences to his family. Roger A. Imperial, II Chairman Lascelles L. Bond President and CEO
        MURRAY-James J., Rev. Msgr. Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers and St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan mourn the loss of Rev. Msgr. James J. Murray, a dedicated friend of this organization. For twenty years Msgr. Murray served on the Board of Trustees of St. Vincent's Hospital and on its finance committee. His decisive leadership and vision in advancing the mission of St. Vincent's contributed greatly to the growth and development of Catholic health care in the New York metropolitan area. On behalf of our Board members and staff, we extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. David Campbell, Pres & CEO Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers Jane Connorton, President St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan
        MURRAY-Rev. Monsignor James J. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Monsignor Murray, former executive director of Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York and our longtime partner in strengthening the city of New York. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to the Monsignor's family and friends. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        MURRAY-Msgr. James. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Msgr. James Murray, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F. White, Jr., Historian
        MURRAY-James J., Msgr. The Board of Directors and staff of Casita Maria mourn with deep sorrow the passing of our beloved Msgr. James J. Murray. We shall remember him with affection for his commitment and devotion. We extend our sympathy to his family and friends.
      