
        GALLAGHER - Leslie Nei land. 1923 to October, 2002. The Board of Directors and The Members of The University Glee Club of New York City mourn with deep sadness the passing of their Brother in Song and Past President, L. Neiland Gallagher. Neil joined The Glee Club as a second tenor in 1954, shortly after having earned a degree in English from Amherst College in 1951. From the beginning, he participated in many of The Club's activities. One of his greatest successes was playing the hilarious role of ''Adelaide'' in the stag ''Hairy Leg'' rendition of ''Guys and Dolls.'' One critic of his performance said: ''Gallagher was a born Broadway actress with a Bronx accent who sang as sweetly as Vivian Blaine.'' He served on The Board of Directors for many years, eventually becoming Vice President in 1977 and President in 1979. With the establishment of The International Concert Tours, as a Club tradition in 1987, Neil went overseas and sang with The Club in each and every one of those adventurous journeys, including the most recent concert tour to Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic this past summer. He is renowned for his conducting of his beloved ''Lord Jeffrey Amherst'' around the world and successfully accomplished this one last time while in Hungary. He was famous for remembering every bit of minutia, detail and trivia that came across his mind. As a result he was appointed Club Historian. Because of his depth of knowledge of The UGC's history, its constitution and traditions, he was regularly asked by The Board to be the speaker at The Induction Ceremony of each new incoming freshman class. Neil was a unique individual, intelligent, a man of action, a loving father and a good friend. In his life he had four great loves: his family, The University Glee Club of New York City, Amherst College, and The United States Marine Corps (he saw action in Okinawa and was part of the Occupation Forces in Tsingtao, China). It was not an option to love one more than the other, he loved them all equally. We shall miss him and he is remembered fondly by all of his Brothers in Song at The University Glee Club of New York City.
      