
        RUBEN-Selma. The Rockefeller University notes with profound sorrow the loss of our beloved friend Selma Belfer Ruben, a dedicated member of The Rockefeller University Council and longtime University benefactor. We join all New Yorkers in saluting the enormous accomplishments of her life. Her generosity, in company with her husband, Lawrence, and often with her siblings, Robert Belfer and the late Anita Saltz, helped shape many of New York City's academic, medical, and cultural institutions, including this one. She gave to charity with a warm hand. At Rockefeller, her philanthropy touched many University initiatives, including research on colon cancer and nutrition, and the creation of the Selma and Lawrence Ruben Laboratory of Synthetic Protein Chemistry, to discover more effective treatments for cancer. We extend our deepest condolences to our Council member Lawrence, to her children Richard, Lenore, and Rochelle, to the Belfer and Saltz families, and to all who loved her. Thomas P. Sakmar, Acting President Torsten N. Wiesel, President Emeritus Barry S. Coller, Physician-in-Chief Emil C. Gotschlich, Vice President of Medical Sciences Jules Hirsch, Physician-in-Chief Emeritus Tom W. Muir, Professor Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman, RU Council Richard B. Fisher, Chairman of the Board David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman The Rockefeller University
        RUBEN-Selma. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Selma Ruben, beloved wife of Lawrence Ruben. The daughter of the late Arthur Belfer, Selma embraced her father's devotion to Jewish and humanitarian causes through her own remarkable philanthropic achievements. Selma perpetuated the Belfer family's legacy through her kindness, generosity, and invaluable contributions to enhancing health care and Jewish education. Like Selma, Lawrence, a member of our Real Estate Executive Committee, has dedicated his time and support to UJA-Federation and its beneficiary agencies. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Lawrence, to their children, Richard, Lenore, and Shelly; to Selma's brother, Robert Belfer; to her grandchildren; and to the entire Ruben and Belfer families. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        RUBEN-Selma. The American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Selma Ruben. Selma's generous philanthropy and that of her brother, Robert Belfer, as extended through the Belfer Foundation, has provided scholarships and major support for cancer research at The Hebrew University. Selma's concern for the people of Israel and for many vital humanitarian causes will long be remembered. We extend our deepest condolences to Lawrence Ruben, Selma's beloved husband; to their children, Richard, Lenore and Rochelle, and all the grandchildren; and to Robert Belfer, our friend and fellow AFHU leader. American Friends of The Hebrew University Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chair. Peter T. Willner, Exec. V.P. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Menachem Magidor, President
        RUBEN-Selma. The American Jewish Committee expresses deepest sorrow at the death of Selma Ruben, a longtime and cherished member of our Women's Campaign Board, National Board of Governors, National Leadership Council, and the driving force in the creation of AJC's Arthur and Rochelle Belfer Center for American Pluralism. She expressed her devotion to her Jewish tradition and heritage by working throughout her life to promote the worth and dignity of all people. Her leadership and commitment will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband, Lawrence, children, Richard, Lenore and Rochelle, her brother, Robert Belfer, her grandchildren and the rest of the grieving family. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Exec. Dir. Elaine Petschek, Hon. Chair Women's Campaign Karen Levy, Chair Women's Campaign
        RUBEN-Selma. Yeshiva University and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law are saddened by the loss of the loving wife of Lawrence Ruben, a long time member of the Board of Directors of Cardozo. The Rubens are Guardians of YU. We offer condolences as well to her brother Robert A. (and Renee) Belfer, chairperson of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine Board of Overseers, to her children, Richard Ruben, Lenore Ruben, and Rochelle Kivell, to her nine grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Earle I. Mack, Chairman CSL Board of Directors
        RUBEN-Selma. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation extend our deepest condolences to her husband Larry and the entire Ruben-Belfer families on the loss of their beloved wife, sister, mother and grandmother. She was a long standing and devoted Board member and Benefactor of the Rochelle Belfer Chemotherapy Foundation Laboratory at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. In more recent years she served as a member of our Honorary Board. May your memories be an everlasting source of comfort. Alan P. Safir, Chairman Gary Gladstein, Vice-Chairman Dr. Samuel Waxman, Scientific Director
        RUBEN-Selma. The leadership and staff of the Arthur & Rochelle Belfer Center for American Pluralism of the American Jewish Committee convey their deep sense of loss at the death of Selma Ruben. Selma held fast to her vision of strong, enduring intergroup relations as the best guarantor of democracy and pluralism in America. Through her unflagging support for the Belfer Center, established in the name of her beloved parents, she strove to make that vision a reality. We will deeply miss her commitment to our mission. We extend our sincere condolences to her husband Lawrence, her brother Robert Belfer and their families. Mont S. Levy, Chair Ann V. Schaffer, Director
        RUBEN-Selma. Hillel extends its heartfelt condolences to Lawrence Ruben, his family, and the entire Belfer family on the passing of beloved Selma Ruben. Mrs. Ruben typified the Jewish spirit of Tikkun Olam and worked to help children and to eradicate Breast Cancer. An advocate for Jewish youth, her commitment to Jewish Renaissance will be recalled this Sunday when Hillel dedicates its new headquarters in Washington, DC. May her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Edgar M. Bronfman, Chairman Lynn Schusterman, Co-Chair Michael Steinhardt, Co-Chair Richard M. Joel, President
        RUBEN-Selma. The Board and Staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and the Israel Museum, Jerusalem are deeply saddened by the death of Selma Ruben. Selma served as a member of our National Committee; she and her husband Larry have been loyal supporters for many years and donors to our Endowment campaign. Our heartfelt condolences to Larry, her brother Bob (and Renee) Belfer and the entire family. Barbara Lane, Pres., AFIM James S. Snyder Anne and Jerome Fisher Director, IM Carolyn Cohen, Exec Dir, AFIM
        RUBEN-Selma. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of Weill Cornell Medical College and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital deeply mourn the passing of Selma Ruben, a member since 1995 of the NewYork Weill Cornell Council. Mrs. Ruben gave generously of her time and interest to the Medical College-as have many members of her family. Her father, the late Arthur Belfer, was a benefactor of the Medical College, and her brother, Robert A. Belfer, currently serves on the Board of Overseers. We extend our sincere condolences to her family.
        RUBEN-Selma. We mourn the passing of Selma Ruben, beloved wife of Lawrence, devoted mother to Richard Lenore and Shelly, grandmother, sister and friend. She was a woman with the spirit and enthusiasm to enjoy everything that life had to offer. Her kindness and generosity made a lasting impression on all those who were fortunate to have met her, and to the community at large. She will be missed by all. Our deepest sympathies to her entire family. Michelle and Marty Sumner
        RUBEN-Selma. We mourn the loss of our dearest friend Selma. The phrase ''to know her is to love her'' is overused, with the exception of this most exceptional woman. Her courage, high intelligence and spirit of generosity are reflected in her most loving husband Lawrence and her children Richard, Lenore, Shelly and her nine grandchildren. You will always be in our hearts. We love you. Leila & Monroe R. Meyerson
        RUBEN-Selma. Dear Larry, our deepest condolences to you, Richard, Lenore, Shelly and all the family for the loss of Selma. She was a courageous and valued woman whose love and support of family and friends gave us all inspiration and strength. Selma did not let her illness overcome her zest for living and supported research to find a cure. We shall miss her very much. Judy and Harvey Rothenberg
        RUBEN-Selma. The American Friends of the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Board of Directors and staff extend our deepest condolences to our Board member Diane Belfer on the passing of her stepdaughter, Selma Ruben. We extend our hearfelt sympathy to her husband Lawrence and the entire family. Zubin Mehta, Itzhak Perlman Co-Chairmen Lynn Syms, President Suzanne K. Ponsot, Exec. Dir.
        RUBEN-Selma. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, the beloved matriarch of one of the leading families of philanthropy and communal life in New York. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband, Lawrence, our client of over thirty years, their children, Richard, Lenore and Rochelle, her brother, Robert Belfer, and their families. Blank Rome Tenzer Greenblatt LLP
        RUBEN-Selma. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Vice President and benefactors Robert A. and Renee Belfer on the passing of Bob's beloved sister. Our sympathies to the entire bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President Philip Sassower, Exec Comm. Chair
        RUBEN-Selma. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation mourns the passing of a devoted friend and great and generous advocate for cancer research. To her husband, Lawrence; her children, Rochelle, Lenore, and Richard, and her entire family, our heartfelt condolences. Evelyn H. Lauder, Founder and Chairman Myra J. Biblowit, President
        RUBEN-Selma. She was a wonderful and caring stepsister. We will always remember Selma's honesty and goodness. Our heartfelt sympathies to Larry, Richard, Lenore, Shelly, and their families. Kathi and Gary Cypres Ken and Sherry Endelson
        RUBEN-Selma. Her courage, spirit and caring was an inspiration to all. We deeply mourn the passing of an extraordinary, loving friend. Our condolences to Larry, Lenore, Richard and Rochelle. Carole and Al Schragis
        RUBEN-Selma. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Selma Ruben. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, Pres.
        RUBEN-Selma. Our condolences to our neighbor and long time Board member, Lawrence Ruben, and his family. We'll all miss the warmth Selma brought to our building. The Board, Neighbors and Staff
        RUBEN - Selma. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Selma Ruben, and wish to extend our condolences to the entire Ruben family. Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc.
        RUBEN-Selma. We will always remember you for your courage, wisdom and generosity. Your friends at Radiology Corporation of America
      