
        ROSENTHAL-Morton Lawrence, M.D. Beloved husband of Bernardine, devoted father of Jeanne (Perry), Karen (Steve), and Benjamin (Susan), grandfather of Michael, Katy, Julie, Anne, and William, brother of J. Robert (Gladys) and the late Gerald (Gloria), brother-in-law of Marie and Richard, Lorraine and Al, and Dorothy and Donald, uncle, great uncle, friend. Physician, surgeon, teacher, musician, sailor, champion of the underdog. He was a man of endless curiosity, boundless intellect, passion, courage, humor and vision. A physician since 1952, he founded The Retina Service at The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary in 1958, the first of its kind in New York City, and was Chief of The Service until 1995. He also served at The Infirmary as Surgeon Director in The Department of Ophthalmology, Chairman of The Medical Board, Member of The Board of Directors, and teacher and mentor of countless residents and fellows. Memorial service Thursday, October 24, 2002, 2-4 P.M. at The Knickerbocker Yacht Club, 433 Main Street, Port Washington, NY, 516-883-7655. ''Two roads diverged in a wood, and I-I took the one less travelled by and that has made all the difference.''
        ROSENTHAL - Morton L., M.D. The Medical Staff, Board of Directors and Administration of the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary mourn the passing of an esteemed physician and friend. A graduate of NYEE's Ophthalmology residency program, Dr. Rosenthal became a recognized authority in treatment and repair of conditions such as retinal detachment. He founded and was director of the area's first Retinal Service in 1960, and served as chief of the service and surgeon director in the Department of Ophthalmology for more than 30 years. He also served the infirmary in capacities from teacher to hospital trustee. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Peter Frelinghuysen, Chairman, Board of Directors Joseph B. Walsh, M.D. Chairman, Department of Ophthalmology Navin C. Mehta, M.D., Chairman, Medical Board Joseph P. Corcoran, President and CEO
        ROSENTHAL-Mort. Friend and neighbor. United over years by the friendship of two boys. The Dimston Family
      