
        MACHIZ-Leon. Of Manhasset, New York. On November 3, 2002. Beloved husband of Lorraine (Lorrie) Machiz, adored father and father-inlaw of Jean and Marc I. Machiz, Linda Machiz-Kilimonis and James Kilimonis, and Christine and Gary S. Machiz, and proud grandfather of Joshua, Douglas, Kevin, Nicholas, Carly, Dana, Andrew, and Samantha. Businessman, philanthropist, raconteur, and consummate player of games, he rose from rags to riches without forgetting where he came from. He was born in Brooklyn NY in 1924. He began his business career as an entrepreneur, and rose to the position of CEO and Chairman of Avnet, Inc., one of the nation's largest distributors of electronic components, which he developed into a global enterpise. In addition, he served on the Board of Trustees of both the North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System and the Muttontown Golf and Country Club where he was a charter member. He has been honored by Cooper Union as a distinguished alumnus, and he received the Ellis Island Medal of Freedom. Services will be held at Gutterman's Funeral Home, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, LI at 12:45PM on Wednesday, November 6, 2002. Donations may be sent to the Pediatric Oncology Center at North Shore University Hospital, 300 Community Drive, Manhasset, New York 11030.
        MACHIZ-Leon. When you were with us you made us laugh. There was no game you couldn't win, no word you didn't know, no phrase you could'nt turn into a pun. You turned poverty to wealth, calculated what you'd won and lost to the 30th decimal place in the flap of a hummingbird's wing, and giggled at the foolishness of caring for the answer. In the end though, you wondered if you'd done enough for each of us and every grandchild that you loved so much. We can only answer here, enough and so much more. Lorrie and the children Marc, Linda, and Gary
        MACHIZ-Leon. Leon has left us in body but not in spirit. We will always remember the good times and fantastic rhymes. And riddles too, unsolvable by anyone but Leon-who more than most understood the riddle of life. Elayne & Jerry Boros
        MACHIZ-Leon. Your loss is deeply felt in our family. Lee touched us all. We shall miss him. Pat and John and the Kids
        MACHIZ-Lee. We grieve the loss of our cherished friend. Our love to Lorrie and family. Aileen and Mike
      