
        NEAMAN-Samuel. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of the honorary chairman of our Board of Directors, Samuel Neaman. Mr. Neaman was responsible for the revitalization of several foundering companies, including the McCrory Corporation, which he served as chief executive officer. In 1972, Mr. Neaman began to focus his considerable managerial and inspirational talents on the ATS and Technion-Israel Institute of Technology. He became legendary for his uncommon wisdom and enormous courage. In addition to serving as ATS national president in 1977, and vice chairman of the national Board of Directors from 1989 through 1998, he was an important presence on the major committees of the national organization, and his leadership in the 1970s and 1980s created a strong base for ATS current success. A dynamic leader and valuable mentor, he also served on the boards of the ATS New York Metropolitan and Western Regions and the San Diego Chapter. He served continuously from 1973 on the Technion International Board of Governors and in 1992 became the first American to be appointed to the position of deputy chair. He was a founding member of the Technion Guardians, a group representing the highest level of support to the university. A man of vision and a believer in applied technology and in people as vital resources, Mr. Neaman in 1973 founded the Technion's Samuel Neaman Institute for Advanced Studies in Science and Technology, which developed under his wise stewardship as chairman into a world-class think tank. Mr. Neaman was recognized for his dignified and devoted service and dedication to the ATS, Technion and Israel with the ATS Albert Einstein Award, a Technion Honorary Doctorate and the Technion Medal, the highest honors bestowed by these institutions. His beloved wife of 62 years, Cecilia, predeceased him. May his memory be blessed. The American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Evelyn Berger, President Lawrence S. Jackier, Chairman, Board of Directors Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Michael Buczaczer, President, San Diego Chapter Dr. Andrew J. Viterbi, Chairman, San Diego Chapter Phyllis Hoffman, Director, San Diego Chapter
      