
        HARRISON-Leah E., RN, MSN, CPNP. The President and Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the passing of Leah Epstein Harrison, a founder and associate director of the J. E. and Z. B. Butler Child Protection Center of The Children's Hospital at Montefiore. Leah, who joined Montefiore 35 years ago as an emergency department nurse, became the driving force behind the Child Protection Center, which has become a model program for the protection of children in the Bronx, New York State and throughout the country. A nationally and internationally recognized expert on child abuse, Leah was called upon by many government leaders to visit their countries (including Israel and Jordan), to help them set up programs to promote the well-being of children and teach the prevention of all forms of child abuse. In 1993, the New York State Legislature named her its Nurse of Distinction and in 1999, the Leah Harrison Educational Center for Child Protection was created at Montefiore through a $100,000 grant from Time Warner, Inc. Over her three - decade career, Leah was named to many federal and local committees, always with one goal, to save children from abuse. Most recently, she served on the Board of Directors of the National Committee to Prevent Child Abuse New York State and was chair of the UJA-Federation Family Violence Task Force subcommittee on children. She was the first pediatric nurse practitioner to be called as an expert witness in both New York State Family and Supreme Courts. To every challenge, Leah brought intensity, tenacity, creativity, courage and dedication. She will be greatly missed by her colleagues and the tens of thousands of children who never knew her but who are safer because of her. Our heartfelt condolences go out to her husband of 33 years, Frederick, her two sons Eric and Bradley, her mother Lillian, her sister Dorothy and brothers Neil and Richard. We have all lost a wonderful treasure. Spencer Foreman, MD, President Jay B. Langer, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        HARRISON-Leah. The staff of the Child Protection Center at The Children's Hospital at Montefiore mourns the passing of our beloved founder and Associate Director, Leah E. Harrison. Leah was a champion for all children, a generous and giving colleague and an inspiration to all of us. Leah's dynamism and creativity reached out as a national and international presence as an advocate for children. Her courage and tenacity will continue to inspire everyone who knew her. We will miss Leah, but with all of our hearts, we will continue her mission of serving the children and families who come to the Child Protection Center and dedicating ourselves to the safety and well-being of all children. Karel R. Amaranth, MA, Executive Director Linda Cahill, MD, Medical Director
      