
        RENFIELD-Beatrice. On November 6, 2002 at age 88. Wife of the late Harold L. Mother of Robert L. and Anna Jo Dubow. Grandmother of Madeleine Pechner and Levin Renfield, Jason, Sara, Joshua, Benjamin, Molly, Jesse and Jonathan Dubow. Greatgrandmother of Ari and Isaac Dubow. Sister of Joseph and Jean. Aunt of Carrington, Charlotte and James Renfield-Miller. Beloved companion of Dora and Wilfredo. Interment private. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to the Beatrice Renfield Center for Nurses, Beth Israel Medical Center, Development Dept., 1st Ave. and 16th St., NY, NY 10003.
        RENFIELD - Beatrice. The Board of Directors, clinical and administrative staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York mourn the loss of Beatrice Renfield, a beloved Director for twenty - five years and benefactor of the agency's home care and public health services. Her interest in patient care improved the health and well-being of countless New Yorkers. Her commitment to high quality, compassionate health care will be remembered always. We extend our profound sympathy to her family. Douglas D. Broadwater Chairman of the Board Carol Raphael President and CEO
        RENFIELD - Beatrice. The Rockefeller University notes with profound sorrow the loss of our dear friend Beatrice Renfield, a dedicated member of The Rockefeller University Council and longtime University benefactor. Her generous support of the University's mission of biomedical research and, particularly, of physician-scientist at The Rockefeller University Hospital, have made possible many advances in clinical research. She will be greatly missed. On behalf of the Rockefeller community, we extend our deepest condolences to her family and to all who loved her. Thomas P. Sakmar, Acting President Jules Hirsch and Attallah Kappas, Professors Richard M. Furlaud, Chairman, RU Council Richard B. Fisher, Chairman of the Board David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman
        RENFIELD - Beatrice. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Center of Home Care Policy and Research of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York are deeply saddened by the loss of Beatrice Renfield, a lifelong benefactor of the nursing profession who established the Beatrice Renfield Nursing Research Program at our Center. Her vision, encouragement and generosity advanced the field of nursing research and she will be greatly missed. Margaret A. Bancroft Chairman, Research Center Advisory Committee Penny H. Feldman, Ph.D Director, CHCPR, VNSNY
        RENFIELD - Beatrice. The Film Society of Lincoln Center deeply regrets the death of its longtime friend and patron, Beatrice Renfield. She was a great lover of film and we will miss her at our programs.
        RENFIELD-Beatrice. Yale School of Nursing is deeply saddened by the tragic loss of our dear friend, Beatrice Renfield. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Catherine L. Gilliss, Dean
      