
        DICKINSON-Eileen Durning, who was President of the New York State Higher Education Services Corporation (HESC) under Governor Hugh Carey, head business researcher for Time and Fortune magazines, and Chairman of the Time, Inc. unit of the Newspaper Guild, died peacefully on Saturday in PA. She was 82. Eileen Mary Durning was born in The Bronx in 1919. She graduated from the Horace Mann School for Girls in 1937, cum laude in Economics from Bryn Mawr in 1941, and received her M.A. in Economics from Columbia in 1942. From 1943 to '47 Mrs. Dickinson was Time's head financial and business researcher; Fortune head researcher 1947 to 1955. She traveled the world for Fortune and interviewed Albert Einstein among others. In 1955 Eileen headed the NY State Publicity Division of the Commerce Department. Governor Harriman congratulated Commissioner of Commerce Edward T. Dickinson Jr. ''on obtaining the services of a woman with a national and world-wide background of industrial and financial writing experience''. Commissioner Dickinson and Eileen married in 1957, had two children, Mary Elizabeth and Edward T. III, and lived in Garden City. Eileen stayed at home with the children for ten years. Her husband died in 1969. She returned to work in 1971 as Executive Assistant to the President of Ithaca College. She was one of the first women to serve on the Board of Directors of a publicly held utility (NYSEG). In 1975 she was appointed by Governor Carey as President of HESC, which distributes over one billion dollars annually in financial aid to NY State college students. She served there until Governor Cuomo appointed her as his Special Assistant to analyze the impact of decreased federal revenue sharing upon NY State programs. She served on the Boards of: The Catskills Center for Conservation and Development, the New York State Health Advisory Council, Columbia Opportunities, and the Onteora Club. She was the daughter of Harry M. Durning, Collector of Customs for the Port of New York, and Johannah Hayes. Her daughter Mary Elizabeth Dickinson, her son Edward T. Dickinson III, M.D., two grandchildren, Alexander and Stephen Dickinson, her brother Harry M. Durning Jr., and her sister Dorothy Malloy survive her. Eileen was loving, funny, feisty, brilliant without trying, kind, joyous, and an inspiration to all who had the good fortune to encounter her. She will be missed. In lieu of flowers the family would like donations to either Bryn Mawr College, 101 N. Merion Ave, Bryn Mawr PA. 19010, or the Democratic National Committee. Funeral will be at 10:30AM on Thursday November 14, at St. Patrick's Church in Malvern, PA. Wake on Wednesday, November 13 from 7-9 PM at the Mauger Givnish Funeral Home, 24 Monument Ave, Malvern PA, 19355. A memorial service will be held in the summer at the Onteora Club in Tannersville, New York.
      