
        BLOCK - Rabbi Irving J. Founder and Rabbi Emeritus of The Brotherhood Synagogue, passed away on October 31, 2002. He served in the US Army in World War II and fought with the Haganah in Israel's War of Independence. A year after his ordination in 1953 he founded The Brotherhood Synagogue, and served his congregation with passion, compassion and total commitment for 40 years. He was a dynamic and innovative leader. Surviving are his beloved wife Phyllis; his devoted son, Herbert, and his wife Judith; his two young grandsons, Joseph Alexander and Isaac Noam; his cherished sisters, Lillian Danberg and Evelyn Cooperstock of Connecticut; and a brother, Rabbi A. Allen Block of New York; and many nieces, nephews and cousins. May his indomitable spirit watch over us all. Funeral Sunday, November 3, at The Brotherhood Synagogue, 28 Gramercy Park South, at noon. Burial will be in Jerusalem.
        BLOCK-Rabbi Irving J. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns with profound sadness the passing of its esteemed founding rabbi and guiding light. He was a model of compassion, leader in the Jewish community, a passionate Zionist, a pioneer in interfaith work and champion of Jews everywhere. We remain committed to his high ideals and proclaiming through word and deed that brotherhood is still the hope of the world. Our condolences to his beloved wife, Phyllis; his devoted son, Herbert (Judith), and his two grandsons. Services will be held at The Brotherhood Synagogue, 28 Gramercy Park So., NYC, on Sunday, November 3 at noon. Inquiries to Riverside Memorial Chapel, 212-362-6600.
        BLOCK-Irving J., Rabbi. Our spiritual leader and teacher. His life's work was passionately dedicated to peace, tolerance and understanding. A gentle man who found good everywhere. He will be forever missed by so many who loved him. The Brotherhood Synagogue on Gramercy Park founded by him 50 years ago is his legacy to judaism and brotherhood. The Abbey Family
        BLOCK-Irving J. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Rabbi Irving J. Block, who dedicated his life to promoting brotherhood. We extend our condolences to his wife Phyllis, son Herbert and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        BLOCK-Irving J. Builder of the Brotherhood Synagogue and of a special family. So many are richer for his contributions but none more than those lucky enough to be friends of Herbert, Judith and Joseph. May his good name be carried on by his grandson, Israel Isaac Noam. Tovit and Michael Granoff
      