
        COLE-Connolly, born in Ireland, September 22, 1931. Died November 8, 2002 at his Manhattan residence. His devoted wife, for 32 years, Lori (nee Gunn) was at his side. He is also survived by a brother, Eric Cole of County Wicklow, Ireland and also nieces and nephews. In keeping with his wishes, Connolly was cremated November 10, 2002. Connolly is a law graduate of Trinity College, Dublin and studied at Oxford and the Sorbonne. Connolly had a long career with the Industrial Development Authority based in Paris, Chicago, San Francisco, Brussels, Copenhagen and New York. He was seconded from the IDA, Irish Government to United Nations Industrial Development Organization headquartered in Vienna. As an investment promotions advisor for UNIDO, his assignments were in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Later, Connolly was with the Australian Trade Commission in New York for three years. From 1985-90, he was the Executive Director for Co-Operation Ireland, Inc. in New York City, a non-profit, charitable organization supported by private enterprise in Ireland, Britain and the USA. It was notable for its distinguished American Corporate Board. In his retirement, he also gave time and wise counsel to Concern Worldwide, a non-denominational organization dedicated to the relief and advancement of the poorest of the poor in the least developed countries of the world. His friends and his wife's family referred to him as the Legendary Connolly Cole-Citizen of the World; but he was most at home among his books where he continued as a literary reviewer for many of the world's great newspapers including The Chicago Tribune, The New York Times and The Irish Times. Before government service, he was a theatre critic for the Oxford Mail and features editor for The Irish Times. Contributions may be made in Connolly's memory where he served as a Trustee to University of Dublin Fund, c/o E.T. Jobst, C.P.A., 179 Larch Ave., Teaneck, NJ 07666 or to the Hemochromatosis Foundation, T Fund, PO Box 8569, Albany, New York 12208.
      