
        HUTTER-Ira. Of Elmsford, New York on November 14, 2002, at age 79. Principal Auctioneer of Tepper Galleries, active member of Willow Ridge Country Club, Veteran of W.W. II. He is the beloved husband of Phyllis; the devoted father of Robert, Kenneth (Ann), Jonathan (Lisa), Adam (Dana), and Lori (Mark) Sloane; cherished grandfather of Zachary, Jesse, Brian, Corie, Kaitlyn, Olivia. A dedicated and humane family and business man, you will be remembered by all who knew you for your sense of humor, leadership, and integrity. Services will be conducted on Friday, November 15th, 1:30 P.M. at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon, New York.
        HUTTER-Ira. Chairman of the Board of Tepper Galleries, former President of the Appraisers Association of America. The entire family of Tepper Galleries mourns his passing and will miss his dedication and leadership. Joining Tepper in 1947, he became a principal and owner in 1960 with Mr. Sydney Drazen, and together they directed and developed our firm from its humble beginnings to its place today as one of the country's leading and most respected auction houses for antiques and fine arts. His dynamic and compassionate character will be deeply missed by us all. We salute him for a life lived well with kindness, ethics, humor, and a devotion to family and business associates alike. We extend to your wife, children and grandchildren our heartfelt sympathy.
        HUTTER-Ira. The Board of Governors and members of Willow Ridge Country Club sadly note the passing of Ira Hutter, a beloved member of this club. Our deepest condolences are offered to his wife, Phyllis, and to their entire family. Brad Mattes, President Board of Governors
        HUTTER-Ira. A great man whom I have known, loved and respected for most of my life. The world is a wimpier place without you, Ira. Max Drazen, Tepper Galleries
        HUTTER-Ira. In loving memory of my godfather and mentor. You will be deeply missed by Richard Rosner & his children, Karin, Richard, and Melanie.
      