
        WURTZBURGER - Mildred. Beloved wife of the late Raymond, cherished daughter of the late Bea and Ben Goldman. Loving mother of Linda and Lloyd Taub, and Ronny and Poppy Wurtzburger. Proud grandmother of 29 adoring grand and greatgrandchildren, Michele and Jeff Kahan (Allison, Brian and the late Joshua), Amy and Laurence Kahan (Alex, Ricki and Dani), Lori Terban (Amanda), Bonnie and Seth Harris (Matthew, Joshua and Nicole), Richard and Jennifer Wurtzburger (Ryan), Mindy and Steven Shulman (Zachary and Jared), Bennet and Anne Taub, Howard Neuthaler, Hillary and Rob Rosensweig. Adored sister of Fred and the late Stanley Goldman. She was our matriarch, and we promise to continue her tradition of family, charity, and love. Funeral services, Wednesday, 12 noon, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to: The Joshua Kahan Fund at 46 Downing Lane, Voorhees, New Jersey 08043.
        WURTZBURGER - Mildred. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Mildred Wurtzburger, beloved mother of Ronald Wurtzburger, a dedicated supporter of UJA-Federation and an active member of the Menswear division. We extend our deepest sympathies to Ronny, his wife Poppy, and to the entire Wurtzburger family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        WURTZBURGER - Mildred. The Trustees, Administration & Faculty extend their deepest sympathy to Benefactor Ronald (Poppy) Wurtzburger on the loss of his beloved mother Mildred Wurtzburger. The generosity of the Wurtzburger Family has strengthened Jewish education and has benefited our students. Our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School
        WURTZBURGER-Mildred. A true lady. To know her was to love her. She was an exceptional woman, always there for everyone. A wonderful daughter and sister and then a super wife, mother, motherin-law, grandmother and great grandmother-and last but not least, a great and giving friend. We will all miss you, my buddy. Rest in peace. Love, Charlotte
        WURTZBURGER - Mildred. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Mildred Wurtzburger, beloved mother of our devoted Trustee and Benefactor Ronald (Poppy) Wurtzburger. Heartfelt condolences to the family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        WURTZBURGER - Mildred. Dearest life long friend, our heartfelt sympathy extends to Mildred's loving family. We will always remember the good times we shared throughout the years. Leona Singer Ellen and Gordon Sussman Connie and Richard Stein
        WURTZBURGER-Mildred. To my very dear friend, Mildred. I sure will miss you. Love, Gladys
        WURTZBURGER - Mildred. Goodbye, sweet friend. Remembered always with love. Belle & Audre
      