
        BLOCK-Rabbi Irving. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Association for New Americans, Inc. (NYANA) note with sadness the passing of Rabbi Irving Block, a member of the NYANA Board of Directors from 1984-1995. Rabbi Block embodied the highest value of Jewish tradition as a champion of the disenfranchised, the newcomer and the poor. He provided spiritual sustenance and hospitality through his teachings and actions. The NYANA Board, staff and New York refugee community all benefited from his guidance and his example. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Phyllis, and his son, Herbert. Michael Loeb Chairman of the Board Mark Handelman President & CEO
        BLOCK-Rabbi Irving J. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns with profound sadness the passing of its esteemed founding rabbi and guiding light. He was a model of compassion, leader in the Jewish community, a passionate Zionist, a pioneer in interfaith work and champion of Jews everywhere. We remain committed to his high ideals and proclaiming through word and deed that brotherhood is still the hope of the world. Our condolences to his beloved wife, Phyllis; his devoted son, Herbert (Judith), and his two grandsons. Services will be held at The Brotherhood Synagogue, 28 Gramercy Park So., NYC, on Sunday, November 3 at noon. Inquiries to Riverside Memorial Chapel, 212-362-6600.
        BLOCK-Rabbi Irving J. The Board of Directors and staff of the Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding mourn the passing of an esteemed Rabbi and cherished founder of the Brotherhood Synagogue. Rabbi Marc Tanenbaum and Rabbi Block were pioneers in the development of interfaith relations from the Jewish community. Rabbi Block's work will hopefully continue for many years to come through the Brotherhood Synagogue. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Block family. Georgette F. Bennett, Ph.D., President Joyce S. Dubensky, Esq., Executive Director Robert S. Lewis, Treasurer
        BLOCK-Irving J., Rabbi. Our spiritual leader and teacher. His life's work was passionately dedicated to peace, tolerance and understanding. A gentle man who found good everywhere. He will be forever missed by so many who loved him. The Brotherhood Synagogue on Gramercy Park founded by him 50 years ago is his legacy to judaism and brotherhood. The Abbey Family
      