
        THEOBALD-Steven B., age 57. An investment banker who was an innovator in the financing of housing and financial institutions, died on Monday, November 4 in Chicago. The cause was cardiac arrest, which occurred while he was jogging. Mr. Theobald was born in Rock Island, IL on June 15, 1945, the son of Walter M. Theobald, a Methodist Minister and his wife Helen. He attended the University of Illinois and after graduation served as a Peace Corps volunteer in Thailand. He returned to the United States in 1972 and joined the staff of the Illinois Housing Development Authority, rising to the position of Director of Finance. After obtaining an MBA from the University of Chicago in 1978 he moved to New York to enter public finance investment banking at Loeb Rhoades. In 1979 he joined Merrill Lynch to become a Sr. investment banker in tax-exempt housing finance. While at Merrill Lynch he quickly rose to the position of Managing Director and played an instrumental role as Merrill rose to become the leading firm in housing finance in the 1980's. He was well known in the industry and served as the Sr. Banker for the California Housing Finance Agency, the Illinois Housing Development Authority and the Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development Agency, among others. In 1986 he moved to Merrill Lynch's Mortgage - Backed Securities Division, where he became head of the CMO Trading Desk. In 1997 he joined Lehman Brothers and soon thereafter, moved to Singapore, where he worked as advisor to the Thailand Reconstruction Finance Authority and the Indonesian Bank Restructuring Agency. In 2000, Mr. Theobald returned to Merrill Lynch as head of financial institutions investment banking for East and South Asia, a position he held until last fall. Mr. Theobald is survived by his wife, Nancy Rapoport and their two daughters Rachael and Sarah Theobald, of New York; his mother, Helen Theobald of Clinton, IL; and two sisters, Nancy Beadles of Clinton, IL and LouAnne Shuyler of Salem, OR. Funeral services will be held on Thursday, November 7 at 4PM at ''Riverside Memorial Chapel'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave., NY, NY. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to the Steven B. Theobald Scholarship Fund at the University of Chicago Business School.
      