
        CHENEY-Marijayne Zior. A woman of many facets and accomplishments - geologist, wife, musician, sister, petroleum executive, aunt and benefactor, died peacefully on Wednesday, November 6th in Manhattan with her husband Peter A. Cheney at her side following a decadelong encounter with breast and lung cancer. Marijayne, known as ''Bitzie'' to her friends and family, characteristically approached that struggle with the tenacity, intelligence and generosity of spirit that defined her character and explained her many personal and professional successes. Marijayne was born on December 16, 1939 in Elizabeth, NJ to David P. and Margaret F. Zior, a decorated police lieutenant and early childhood education pioneer. With a Bachelor's degree in geology from St. Louis University and a Master's degree in business administration from New York University, Marijayne worked with the U.S. Department of Labor and held executive positions in the Chicago Pneumatic Tool Company and the Caltex Petroleum Corporation. More recently, she pursued select investing and consulting opportunities. She was a gifted musician who enjoyed the piano and skillfully taught the art to others including any youngsters underfoot. She was a co-op board president who successfully navigated a major building through financial peril, keeping her humor intact. She was a generous but quiet benefactor to many charities, particularly those supporting education and helping children and women in need. Her customary place was behind the scenes, lending support when it was needed most and when others might demur. More publicly, she was a sponsor of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and remained active in numerous organizations, including Society of Petroleum Engineers and the Lotos Club. Marijayne took great satisfaction in family. In addition to her husband Peter of Manhattan, her sister, Dr. Diane Zior Wilhelm of Pine Beach, NJ, and her nephew and his wife, Daniel F. Wilhelm and Courtney O'Malley Wilhelm of Manhattan, were witnesses to Marijayne's countless acts of selflessness and steadfast dedication to helping others improve themselves and their lives. Her impact was felt profoundly by many who were forever changed by the experience. In recent years, her greatest joy was lavishing love on her grand-nephew, Teddy, and grand-niece, Alexandra. She introduced them to the sublime thrills of New York and bestowed on them a lifetime of affection and memories. Her loss is irreparable and we will miss her terribly. A viewing will be held at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. (at E. 81 St.) in Manhattan, on Sunday, November 10th, from 2-5 and 7-9PM. A funeral service will follow on Monday, November 11th, at 11:30AM, also at Frank E. Campbell. Interment will follow at a later date at Arlington National Cemetery in Virginia. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the American Foundation for Chinese Medicine, 428 E. 72 Street, New York, NY 10021.
      