
        KEMMERER-John L., Jr. Coal Mining Executive and Philanthropist. A pioneer in the development of many national, state, and community organizations, died on November 14, 2002 at Overlook Hospital in Summit, New Jersey after a short illness. He was 91 years old. Born in New York City, Mr. Kemmerer lived most of his life in Short Hills, New Jersey. After graduating from Princeton University in 1933 with a B.S. in Geology, he then entered the University of Utah earning a Masters degree. As Chairman and Chief Executive of the Kemmerer Coal Company, headquartered in New York City, he expanded a family coal mining business to be one of the most successful in the West, with the largest open pit coal mine in the world. Mines were located primarily in Kemmerer, a small proud town in southwestern Wyoming, established in 1897 by his grandfather and Patrick Quealy. Kemmerer is also the home of J.C. Penny's first store, opened in 1902. Mr. Kemmerer established a Foundation for the benefit of the Town after the family sold its business to Gulf Oil in 1981. In 1992 he created a scholarship endowment for the top graduates from the Kemmerer/ Diamondville/Cokeville area high schools to attend the University of Wyoming. This unique scholarship covers tuition and all expenses. The family has sustained its ties to Wyoming with the ownership of the Jackson Hole Mountain Resort in Jackson and the CM Guest Ranch in Dubois. John was a World War II veteran and Chairman of many coal and financial organizations. He remained active in his family's business affairs and was a daily presence at its offices in Chatham, NJ up until the time of his death. John lost his beloved wife, Mary Liz, in July of this year after 63 years of marriage. He is survived by three children: Connie Kemmerer, Betty Gray and Jay Kemmerer and six grandchildren. A Memorial Service is planned at the Presbyterian Church in Liberty Corner, New Jersey, 45 Church Street on November 30, 2002 at 11:30 am. The family requests that donations in lieu of flowers be made to The Nature Conservancy of New Jersey, 200 Pottersville Road, Chester, NJ 07930.
      