
        RENFIELD - Beatrice. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in mourning the passing of our dear friend and beloved colleague, Beatrice Renfield, a member of the Beth Israel Board since 1988. She believed that an excellent nursing staff is the foundation of a reputable hospital, and the innovations she supported at Beth Israel have provided new visions and models of nursing care for New York City and the nation. Her unparalleled record of philanthropic support to nursing at Beth Israel was recognized with the naming of the Department of Nursing and the Division of Nursing Education and Research in her honor. Just this year, the Medical Center also opened the Renfield Center for Nurses, a state-of-the-art facility that will serve as a conduit to educational advancement, research platforms and opportunities for personal renewal for the hospital's nurses and allied health professionals. Lovingly named a ''nurse's nurse'' by the Beth Israel nursing staff, Bea will be greatly missed by all whose lives were touched by her compassion, generosity, concern and vision. To the entire Renfield family, and to all who loved her and held her in such high esteem, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman Chairman Boards of Trustees Continuum and Beth Israel Peter A. Kelly President and CEO Continuum Thomas Killip, MD Interim President and CEO Beth Israel Sidney K. Stein, MD President, Medical Board
        RENFIELD - Beatrice. The nurses and staff of the Beatrice Renfield Department of Nursing and Division of Nursing Education and Research of Beth Israel Medical Center express their deep sorrow at the passing of our dearest friend and staunchest supporter, Beth Israel Trustee Beatrice Renfield. Her generosity and dedication to the advancement of the nursing profession has enabled our departments to thrive and evolve into an exciting, caring and creative community of nurses who strive for sustained excellence in patient care. Mrs. Renfield's support and enthusiasm for the nursing profession will remain forever her legacy at this institution, and will be a source of inspiration for generations of nurses to come. She will always be ''one of us,'' and we will miss her greatly. Our deepest sympathies to her family, friends and the countless benefactors of her extraordinary goodwill. Frank J. Cracolici, RN, MA Senior Vice President for Patient Care Services Carmen D. Schmidt, RN, MSN Director, Nursing Education and Research
      