
        BAER-Leslie, M.D. Beloved husband of Jeanne Baer, M.D. Devoted father of Oliver Ernest Baer, Nicholas Arthur Baer and Naomi Rose Preble. Loving grandfather of Jacob Otto and Marlese Elizabeth. Services Friday 11:30AM at Temple Beth El of the Northern Valley, 221 Schraalenburgh Rd, Closter, N.J. For more information Riverside Memorial Chapel of New Jersey 201-489-2728.
        BAER-Leslie, M.D. The Department of Medicine and the College of Physicians & Surgeons of Columbia University mourn the untimely death on November 26, 2002 of Dr. Leslie Baer, Associate Professor of Medicine at the College of Physicians & Surgeons and Associate Attending Physician at New YorkPresbyterian Hospital. Dr. Baer received his A.B. from the University of Wisconsin in 1959 and his M.D. from the Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons in 1963. Following his residency training at Presbyterian Hospital and training the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, he returned to ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center, where he spent the rest of his career. Dr. Baer was an expert in the field of hypertension and was beloved by colleagues and patients as a gentle, meticulous, and intensely caring physician and teacher. Our heartfelt thoughts go out to his wife Jeanne and his family. Contributions can be made to the Leslie Baer Lectureship Fund at the College of Physicians & Surgeons, Columbia University, Box 55, 630 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032. Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons Joseph Tenenbaum, M.D. Interim Chair, Department of Medicine Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D. Executive Vice President and Dean Thomas Q. Morris, M.D. Vice President and Vice Dean
        BAER-Leslie, MD. With deep sorrow we note the passing of Dr. Leslie Baer, the Director of the Hypertension Research Program at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Dr. Baer guided the program since its inception 10 years ago and provided care for those who otherwise would not have received treatment. Dr. Baer will be sorely missed professionally & personally. The Beatrice & Samuel A. Seaver Foundation Hirschell Levine & John Cohen Trustees
        BAER-Leslie W., M.D. The Board of Directors and members of the Physicians Relief Fund mourn the untimely death of its caring and compassionate president. He will be missed by all who knew and worked with him. Services are at Temple Beth-El, Northern Valley, Closter, NJ, on Friday, at 11:30 AM. David I. Goldblatt, Esq., Vice President
      