
        MACHIZ-Leon. Of Manhasset, New York. On November 3, 2002. Beloved husband of Lorraine (Lorrie) Machiz, adored father and father-inlaw of Jean and Marc I. Machiz, Linda Machiz-Kilimonis and James Kilimonis, and Christine and Gary S. Machiz, and proud grandfather of Joshua, Douglas, Kevin, Nicholas, Carly, Dana, Andrew, and Samantha. Businessman, philanthropist, raconteur, and consummate player of games, he rose from rags to riches without forgetting where he came from. He was born in Brooklyn NY in 1924. He began his business career as an entrepreneur, and rose to the position of CEO and Chairman of Avnet, Inc., one of the nation's largest distributors of electronic components, which he developed into a global enterpise. In addition, he served on the Board of Trustees of both the North Shore Long Island Jewish Health System and the Muttontown Golf and Country Club where he was a charter member. He has been honored by Cooper Union as a distinguished alumnus, and he received the Ellis Island Medal of Freedom. Services will be held at Gutterman's Funeral Home, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, LI at 12:45PM on Wednesday, November 6, 2002. Donations may be sent to the Pediatric Oncology Center at North Shore University Hospital, 300 Community Drive, Manhasset, New York 11030.
        MACHIZ-Leon. When you were with us you made us laugh. There was no game you couldn't win, no word you didn't know, no phrase you could'nt turn into a pun. You turned poverty to wealth, calculated what you'd won and lost to the 30th decimal place in the flap of a hummingbird's wing, and giggled at the foolishness of caring for the answer. In the end though, you wondered if you'd done enough for each of us and every grandchild that you loved so much. We can only answer here, enough and so much more. Lorrie and the children Marc, Linda, and Gary
        MACHIZ-Leon. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of our esteemed Trustee Leon Machiz. Mr. Machiz, a generous friend and staunch supporter, first became a trustee of North Shore University Hospital in 1981. He continued to serve as a trustee of the expanded North Shore Health System, and following its merger with Long Island Jewish Medical Center in 1997, was a board member of the North ShoreLong Island Jewish Health System. During his tenure as trustee, he served on the health system's Development and Finance Committees. Mr. Machiz was the former chairman and CEO of Avnet, Inc. His business acumen and generous spirit were of great benefit to the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System and will be greatly missed. We extend our sympathy to his wife, Lorraine, an associate trustee of the health system, his children, Marc, Linda and Gary, and eight grandchildren. Roy Zuckerberg, Chairman Michael Dowling, President & CEO North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        MACHIZ-Leon. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Chemotherapy Foundation mourn with deepest sorrow the passing of Leon Machiz, distinguished benefactor and beloved husband of Trustee Lorraine Machiz. His sophisticated understanding, generosity and humanitarian concern profoundly influenced the expansion and scope of the Foundation's programs over the past 20 years. Progress achieved through our aggressive research efforts will forever remain a tribute to his vision and encouragement. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Lorraine, and his family. Ezra M. Greenspan, M.D. Chairman & Medical Director Barry Richter President The Chemotherapy Foundation
        MACHIZ-Leon. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member Leon Machiz and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Lorraine, his daughter Linda and sons Marc and Gary. Russell Leavitt, President
        MACHIZ-Lee. Your warmth, wit, generosity and friendship will be forever missed. Our love and sympathy to Lorrie and the family. Diane and Win
        MACHIZ-Leon. We will miss our friend Leon Machiz, a man of great wit and charm. Our condolences to Lori and the family. Helen and Mel Michaels
        MACHIZ-Leon. Your wit, brilliance and kindness will forever be remembered. Dearest friend, rest in peace. Jerry, Betta and Family
        MACHIZ-Leon. You burned the torch brightly with passion, wisdom, generosity and humor. We will always love you. Norma and Joel
        MACHIZ-Leon. Thanks for the memories. June and Marvin
      