
        KAPNICK-Mary. Mary Tuttle Redus Johnson Kapnick of Naples, Florida, and Wilmette, Illinois, passed away on Sunday, October 20, 2002, at Naples Community Hospital. She was 76 years old. Mrs. Kapnick was born March 29, 1926, in St. Louis, Missouri, daughter of Hal Edward Redus and Margaret Bundy Redus, and was raised in Centralia, Illinois. She received a BA degree from DePauw University in Greencastle, Indiana, majoring in mathematics, with a minor in Greek, and enjoyed her legacy as a third generation member of Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority. Mary moved to Chicago after college and worked at the Harris Trust and Savings Bank. She married Lloyd Byron Johnson, who died of cancer in 1962. She subsequently married Harvey E. Kapnick, Jr. and lived in Shaker Heights, Ohio, until moving to Winnetka, Illinois in 1970 after Mr. Kapnick's election as Chairman of the accounting firm Arthur Andersen & Co. Mrs. Kapnick was a pillar of support throughout Mr. Kapnick's long and distinguished business career. Mrs. Kapnick also devoted her energy to numerous civic and community organizations, serving as President of the Women's Board of the Hadley School for the Blind in Winnetka; as a Trustee of the organization now known as the Music Institute of Chicago; and as a member of the President's Council of the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago. In recent years, Mr. and Mrs. Kapnick divided their time between their homes in Wilmette, Illinois, and Naples, Florida. Mrs. Kapnick's greatest legacy, and primary focus throughout her life, was her devotion to her family. She created a loving environment for all her children and grandchildren, and maintained close relationships with the extended family. Her passing leaves a void in the hearts of all who knew her, which can never be replaced. Mrs. Kapnick was preceded in death by her husband Harvey only two months ago, shortly after celebrating their thirty-ninth anniversary, and her brother Robert Bundy Redus two years earlier. She is survived by three sons: David in San Francisco, Richard B. in Winnetka, and Scott in New York City, and eight grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at Christ Church, 784 Sheridan Road, Winnetka, Illinois at 4PM on Saturday, November 2, 2002. In lieu of flowers, the family would prefer donations to the Mary Redus Kapnick Endowed Scholarship Fund, DePauw University, Charter House, Greencastle, Indiana 46135.
      