
        BAKER-Richard T. of Gulf Stream, FL and Lake Leelanau, Michigan passed away on December 7, 2002. Dick was born September 4, 1917 in Anderson, IN. His parents were Leslie & Rachel Baker. He was educated in the Anderson schools and became an avid basketball player and played on the state championship team in 1935 when he was a senior. He was elected to Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame in 1993. He graduated from Ohio State University in 1939. He was voted Basketball All-American by the Associated Press. He and his college sweetheart, Marty, were married in 1939 and he joined the firm of Ernst & Ernst in Cleveland, OH as a junior accountant. He spent 13 years in the St. Louis office and then moved back to the Cleveland office. He was made Managing Partner of Ernst & Ernst in 1964 and retired from the firm in 1977. After his retirement he served on the Board of Directors of GE, Hershey Foods, International Paper, Textron, Louisiana Land & Exploration and Anheuser Busch. He received an Honorary Doctorate of Accounting from Angola University, IN; Honorary Doctorate of Accounting from Ohio State University; was elected to the Accounting Hall of Fame at OSU and elected to the Business Hall of Fame in Cleveland, OH. In 1984 he was elected Outstanding Director of the year. Dick was a passionate golfer (with eight hole-in-ones to his credit) and an avid fly fisherman. He was a member of Gulf Stream Golf Club, Little Club, The Ocean Club and Double Eagle Golf Club. Former member of Augusta National Golf Club and Turtle Lake Club, Pepper Pike Golf Club, the Question Club. Mr Baker leaves behind his cherished wife of 63 years, Martha Brown Baker. He is survived by daughter Jane Baker of San Francisco, daughter Laura Baker (Lewis Lubin) of Berkeley, CA and son Richard T. Baker, Jr (Cheryl Madsen) of San Francisco and son-in-law David Wolman of Philadelphia. He was pre-deceased by his daughter Anni Baker Wolman in 1999. He is survived by granddaughters Amanda Baker Wolman, Lily Baker Lubin and Ruby Renne Madsen Baker and by grandsons Alex Baker Lubin, James Kristiaan Madsen Baker and Tommy Baker Madsen. Services will be held Wednesday, January 15, 2003, 10:30 AM at the First Presbyterian Church, 33 Gleason St, Delray Beach, FL. Interment will be in Lake Leelanau, MI. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to your local Alzheimer's Assn.
      