
        GINZBERG - Eli. Beloved father and grandfather. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, December 18, 1:15PM. ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave.
        GINZBERG-Eli, Ph.D. It is with profound sympathy that the faculty, students, alumni and staff of Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health remember Eli Ginzberg; a friend, mentor and role model to countless members of our faculty and students. For the past 25 years, Dr. Ginzberg taught a much loved course on the ''Political Economy of Health Care'' in our Department of Health Policy and Management. Never missing or canceling a class, Dr. Ginzberg greeted his students with unbridled optimism. He enjoyed a wide ranging career and during the decades from the 1940's to the early 1980's he advised the administrations of nine presidents, from FDR to Ronald Reagan. He authored over 100 books, his most recent being ''U.S. Health Care and the Supply of Physicians'' published earlier this year. We will greatly miss his wise counsel, dedication and friendship. Allan Rosenfield, MD Dean
        GINZBERG-Eli. The board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation express profound sorrow at the loss of Eli Ginzberg, who for more than two decades headed the Revson Fellows Program on the Future of the City of New York at Columbia University. A wise teacher and thoughtful advisor, he had an abiding faith in America and always conveyed a sense of hope to his extended family of students. Through the Fellows, he inspired a generation of future leaders who spent an ''active sabbatical year'' at Columbia and who have gone on to make a difference in every area of New York City. We at the Foundation consider ourselves blessed to have known him and to have shared in his vision and enthusiasm. So too do the 230 Fellows who came to know and love him. Robert S. Rifkind, Chairman Eli N. Evans, President
        GINZBERG-Eli. The Board of Directors and staff of the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation (MDRC) mourn the passing and honor the memory of Eli Ginzberg, our founding Chairman. Distinguished economist, pioneering social policy analyst, and long time presidential advisor, Ginzberg was a lucid scholar, a mentor to generations of social scientists, and a passionate champion for civil rights. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved children and grandchildren.
      