
        RIEFLE-Barbara Thorlichen. Age 56, died on November 5, 2002 at her home in NYC after a courageous battle with cancer. Born in Hameln, Germany on June 1, 1946, Barbara emigrated with her family to the USA at the age of seven. She was the daughter of the late Heinz P. Thorlichen and Ursula Kempnick Thorlichen. Barbara attended public schools in Hartsdale, Rye and Millerton, NY. While holding a full-time job, she enrolled at Hunter College and earned a Bachelor's degree after nine years of study. Subsequently, she earned a Master's Degree from Columbia University. Barbara was a respected leader and innovator in the travel business for over 35 years. At the age of 22, she was responsible for buying a small, family travel firm of four people (Hardach Travel Service) and guiding it as it grew to become a major New York City entity. After 23 years in the business (1988), she succesfully merged Hardach Travel into Maritz Travel Company, a nationally renowned business. Barbara became the Vice-President and General Manager of the Northeast Division of Maritz with a staff of over two hundred. Throughout her career, Barbara was a mentor and teacher to her own staff and to countless colleagues in her industry. She believed passionately in personal development and she encouraged and assisted each of those around her to reach for his or her personal best. Barbara was also an enthusiast of New York Cityits art, music, theater, and restaurants. For the last four years of her life, Barbara committed much of her energy to learn about and fight her cancer and to compassionately share her experience with others. Barbara is survived by her sister, Alexa Thorlichen McCray of Arlington, VA; her brother, Peter H. Thorlichen of Arlington, MA; her companion and partner, J. Henry Riefle III of Havre de Grace, MD; as well as many other family relations and friends. A memorial service will be held at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, NYC at 2PM on February 8, 2003. Memorial contributions may be made to Harmony Hill Retreat Center, 7362 E. State Route 106, Union, Washington 98592 and directed to the Barbara Riefle Cancer Retreat Scholarship Fund.
      