
        GABRILOVE-Hilda Weiss. Courageously succumbed in her 76th year after a brief struggle with cancer. A caring, compassionate, beautiful, wise and gracious woman of impeccable taste and discernment, her life was a joy and blessing to her family and those who knew her. An accomplished artist, she turned her creative talents to interior design and space planning and earlier had a successful needlepoint design business in partnership with a close college friend. A former trustee of Central Synagogue in Manhattan and President of its Sisterhood, she also designed the needlepoint pulpit chairs in the main sanctuary which miraculously survived the devastating 1998 fire which gutted the synagogue. Committed to preserving the dignity of the elderly, she was a trustee of the Home and Hospital of the Daughters of Jacob and assisted in designing a warm and comfortable setting for patients. Born in Jacksonville, FL, she was a champion golfer and a talented singer and painter. She attended Goucher College where a prize in chemistry was later created in her name. She moved to New York City when she married her beloved husband of 56 years who survives her, Dr. J. Lester Gabrilove, Baumritter Professor of Medicine, Emeritus, at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Also surviving are her devoted two daughters Sandra and her husband Michael Saltzman and Dr. Janice L. Gabrilove, Holland Professor of Medicine and Chief of Medical Oncology, Mount Sinai Hospital and School of Medicine and her husband Michael Dirzulaitis and her two beloved grandsons, Mark and Matthew Dirzulaitis, a brother Barnett Weiss and a step-sister Barbara Gell Berk. Funeral Sunday, December 29, 9:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 81 St and Madison Ave. The family will be receiving Saturday, December 28, 6-8PM at Frank E. Campbell. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the Division of Medical Oncology, C/O Dr. Janice Gabrilove, the Mount Sinai School of Medicine.
        GABRILOVE-Hilda. The Executive Board and members of The Mount Sinai deeply regret the passing of Hilda Gabrilove, beloved wife of our past President, Dr. J. Lester Gabrilove, and cherished mother of our friend and colleague, Dr. Janice Gabrilove. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to the entire family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D., Pres. William G. Stein, M.D., V.P. Maria L. Padilla, M.D., Secy. George Raptis, M.D., Treas.
        GABRILOVE-Hilda. The faculty and staff of the Derald H. Ruttenberg Cancer Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Hilda Gabrilove, the cherished mother of Dr. Janice Gabrilove and beloved wife of Dr. Lester Gabrilove. Our thoughts and prayers are with her family. Stuart A. Aaronson, M.D. Derald H. Ruttenberg Cancer Center Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        GABRILOVE-Hilda. Central Synagogue and its Sisterhood record with profound sorrow the passing of their longtime member and congregational leader Hilda Gabrilove. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman President Janet Stovin Sisterhood President
        GABRILOVE - Hilda. Hilda was a wonderful friend of long standing. How we will miss her. Deepest sympathy to her loving family. Love, Bernice Greenberg/family
      