
        SKINNER-Dr. David B. January 24, 2003. Beloved husband of Ellie. Cherished father of Linda and her husband David Callans, Kristin, Carise and her husband Roger Rowley and Margaret. Devoted grandfather of Christopher, Lauren, Anra and Ian. Loving brother of Donald and his wife Shirley and their family. He was President Emeritus of the New York-Presbyterian Hospital and Professor of Surgery at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University. A surgeon, scientist and a leader who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, 7-9 PM, and Tuesday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the David B. and May T. Skinner Foundation, 79 East 79th St, NYC 10021.
        SKINNER-David B., M.D., of New York, NY. The Board of Trustees and staff of New York Hospital Queens join his family in mourning the loss of Dr. David B. Skinner. Dr. Skinner had served as an Honorary Member of the Board from 1992-1999, until his retirement from NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital where he had served as vice chairman and chief executive officer. During his entire tenure at The New York Hospital, Dr. Skinner also gave dedicated service to New York Hospital Queens in which he demonstrated a clear vision of the institutions role in maintaining the health of the people of Queens. In 1993, he played a pivotal role in arranging the affiliation of the hospital, then known as Booth Memorial Medical Center, with The New York Hospital - Cornell Medical Center and The New York Hospital Care Network, which later became The NewYorkPresbyterian Healthcare System with the merger of New York Hospital and Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in 1996. Dr. Skinner was appointed to the medical staff at New York Hospital Queens in 1996 as a member of the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery. Dr. Skinner's influence also was felt throughout New York Hospital Queens where he took a leadership role in helping to introduce new clinical programs and establish joint programs between NewYork-Presbyterian HospitalCornell Campus and New York Hospital Queens. The Board and staff extend their deepest sympathies to his wife, Ellie, and their four daughters, Linda, Kristin, Carise and Margaret. George F. Heinrich, M.D. Chairman-Board of Trustees Stephen S. Mills, President and Chief Executive Officer
        SKINNER-David B., M.D. The New York-Presbyterian Healthcare System is deeply saddened by the passing of David B. Skinner, M.D., our esteemed colleague. We salute the vision he had in bringing together a network of hospitals that includes primary, specialty and long-term care facilities in New York, Connecticut and New Jersey, dedicated to providing seamless and highest quality health care. Today, following his lead, the New York-Presbyterian Healthcare System has become one of the largest and preeminent health care systems in the country. Dr. Skinner's personal commitment to excellence and innovative leadership will be missed. The Board Leadership, Chief Executive Officers and Senior Management of the System extend their deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to his wife, Ellie, his four daughters, and the rest of his family. John J. Mack, Chairman Donald L. Boudreau, John E. Merow, Esq., Vice Chairs Herbert Pardes, M.D. President and CEO Arthur A. Klein, M.D., Sr Vice Pres and COO
        SKINNER-David B. The trustees, administration, medical staff and employees of New York Methodist Hospital mourn the death of David B. Skinner, MD, a true giant in the field of healthcare. Dr. Skinner welcomed our hospital into membership in the New York Hospital Care Network (now the NewYorkPresbyterian Healthcare System) in 1993. Dr. Skinner's vision and determination led to both the formation and the great success of the NewYork - Presbyterian Health care System. His leadership inspired all of the System's member institutions to move forward and to achieve the excellence in healthcare that characterizes the NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital. We will all miss Dr. Skinner's wisdom, courage and humanity, even as we move forward to continue along the course he charted. Mark J. Mundy President and CEO John E. Carrington Chairman of the Board Stanley Sherbell, MD Executive Vice President for Medical Affairs New York Methodist Hospital
        SKINNER-David B., M.D. AMDeC, (The Academic Medicine Development Company) is deeply saddened by the passing of our Vice-chairman David B. Skinner, M.D., former Chief Executive Officer of New York-Presbyterian Hospital. His visionary leadership and deep commitment to the academic medical community in New York was instrumental in the creation and development of AMDeC dedicated to the advancement of biomedical research in New York. As a founding board member, constant advisor, and later as Vice-chairman to AMDeC, Dr. Skinner worked tirelessly to promote inter-institutional collaborative initiatives that will make possible scientific advances and medical discoveries for years to come. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Ellie, his daughters Linda, Kristin, Carise and Margaret, and his family and friends. Maurice R. Greenberg, Chairman Maria K. Mitchell, President AMDeC
        SKINNER-David, M.D. The faculty, staff and students of Columbia University Health Sciences Division mourn the loss of our esteemed friend and colleague Dr. David Skinner. Dr. Skinner served as president and CEO of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center and was instrumental in completing its merger with Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in 1999. Without his hard work and dedication the NewYorkPresbyterian Healthcare System, one of the most comprehensive healthcare institutions in the world, would not exist. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Ellie, his daughters, family and friends. Gerald Fischbach, M.D. Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Columbia University Thomas Q. Morris, M.D. Vice President for Health Sciences and Vice Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Columbia University
        SKINNER-David B., M.D., of New York, NY. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Silvercrest Extended Care Facility note with great sadness the passing of David B. Skinner, M.D. Silvercrest, a member of the NewYork-Presbyterian Healthcare System, is grateful for Dr. Skinner's dedication and commitment to the highest quality care for patients. His legacy of maintaining the highest standards for the benefit of patients will be long-remembered and rigorously followed. The Trustees and staff join Dr. Skinner's family, his wife, Ellie, and his daughters Linda, Kristin, Carise and Margaret in mourning his loss. George F. Heinrich, M.D. Chairman-Board of Trustees Stephen S. Mills Vice Chairman-Board of Trustees Cosmo LaCosta Sr. Vice President and Administrator
        SKINNER-Dr. David B. The HealthCare Chaplaincy mourns the death of its friend, advisor, benefactor, and lifetime achievement Wholeness of Life award recipient. For four decades with consummate skill and compassion he practiced the healing arts as surgeon, educator, researcher, and administrator. Dave's personal religious faith and keen judgement informed his commitment to professional chaplaincy at New York Presbyterian Hospital. We shall miss his strong voice and visionary leadership. We extend our love and prayers to Ellie and her family and to our many friends in the New York-Presbyterian Healthcare System who join with us in remembering a truly great human being. Lawrence J. Toal, Chairman The Rev. Dr. Walter J. Smith, S.J., President & CEO
        SKINNER-David B. The entire staff of New York Community Hospital mourns the loss of Dr. David B. Skinner, a devoted friend and colleague. It was Dr. Skinner's vision and determination that made our transformation possible. We will forever remember his extraordinary leadership, his warmth, and friendship. Our condolences to his wife, Ellie, his four daughters Linda, Kristin, Carise and Margaret and his entire family. George Weinberger, Chairman of the Board Lin H. Mo, President and CEO
        SKINNER-David B. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America mourn the loss of Dr. David Skinner. We have long valued his insight, leadership, friendship and service on our Board of Directors; he will be dearly missed. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the entire Skinner family during this difficult time. John F. McGillicuddy, Pres. Daniel R. Gasparo, Scout Executive
        SKINNER-David B. The Trustees and staff of The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine join New York City to mourn the passing of Dr. David Skinner. He was a Trustee and treasured member of the Cathedral family. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Ellie, and to his entire family. The Very Rev. Dr. James A. Kowalski, Dean Henry L. King, Esq., President
      