
        WEXLER-Jack. Died peacefully surrounded by family on December 26, 2002. Unbounding kindness and generosity were his life's work. Cherished father to Ann and Robert Fromer and Nina and Gary Wexler. Adored grandfather to Tony and Amy Fromer, Yvette and Roger Mincheff, Michal Fromer and Elana and Freddy Wexler. Great grandfather to Alexandra and Madeline Fromer. A graduate of the Cooper Union School, he pursued painting and commercial art in his early years. Together with his brother-in-law Morton Rechler, he established the real estate development firm, The We're Group, a partnership that has lasted over half a century. His greatest partnership however, was with his wife Ruth, which lasted for 68 years until her passing in 2001. Together they loved without reservation, their family and friends and the charitable and non-profit organizations they worked so hard for. Among those closest to their hearts were the Migdal Ohr School in Migdal, Hamek and the 6000 children the school educated and nourished, Hadassah, Southern Poverty Law Center, Yeshiva University, Nassau County Museum of Art, UJA, Temple Israel of Great Neck, Zahal Disabled Veterans, ADL, Guide Dogs for the Blind, Alzheimer's Foundation, Jewish National Fund, ORT, The Maccabi World Union, Israel Tennis Centers, Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Hebrew University, as well as numerous U.S. veterans' organizations. He was an inspiration to all who knew him, and his wonderful wit and never ending sense of humor lasted to the very end. He will be sorely missed and always remembered by his family and all those lives he touched. Services will be held at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, N.Y. Friday, December 27th, at 1:30 P.M.
        WEXLER-Jack. Hadassah, The Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc., mourns the passing of Jack Wexler, beloved husband of Ruth, of blessed memory. As a member of the Society of Major Donors, Jack was a generous benefactor of Hadassah, who was devoted to Israel and the Jewish people. His legacy will live on through the visionary projects he supported at the Hadassah Medical Organization. We extend our deepest condolences to his children, Ann and Robert Fromer and Gary and Nina Wexler, and the entire family. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, President
        WEXLER-Jack. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are saddened by the passing of Jack Wexler, beloved father of Ann Fromer. Ann and her husband, Robert, are cherished friends of UJAFederation who continue to touch thousands by their generosity and commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes. Our hearts and prayers are with Ann and Robert, their family, and all who mourn Mr. Wexler's loss. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O. Erika Witover, LI Chair Stuart Tauber, LI Director
        WEXLER-Jack. The Partners of Hartman & Craven LLP are profoundly saddened by the passing of our friend and mentor, Jack Wexler. Mr. Wexler was a pioneer of commercial real estate development on Long Island who, together with his late wife Ruth and their family, sponsored humanitarian and philanthropic works both here and in Israel. Our sincere condolences to the Wexler and Fromer families.
        WEXLER-Jack. We mourn the passing of a beneficient friend, advisor, and humanitarian. Jack is now with his beloved Ruth. Their absence leaves a cavernous void, which can only be filled by the loving memories held by Ann, Gary, Robert, and Nina, and their children. Allyne and Fred Schwartz and The Auschwitz Jewish Center Foundation
        WEXLER-Jack. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President
      