
        PERGAMENT-Murray, 76. Of Old Westbury, NY and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Irene for 53 years, dear brother Robert Pergament, loving father of Linda and Richard Horowitz, the late Sherri, and Caleb Koeppel, Randi and Bruce Pergament; cherished grandfather of Jill and Jeff Libshutz, Kyle, Max and Sam Koeppel, Scott, Cole and Wesley Pergament. Larger than life in all qualities, he will be missed by his beloved family and dear friends for his caring and great sense of humor. He was a dedicated philanthropist. He was the founder of Pergament Home Centers in 1946. Services will be at Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Rd, Great Neck, NY on Thursday, December 12, 2002 at 12PM. Contributions to the Sherri Pergament Koeppel Cancer Research Laboratory at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Ave, Ste B802, Bronx, NY 10461.
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board, Administration and League of Parker Jewish Institute for Healthcare and Rehabilitation deeply mourn the passing of our beloved former Trustee Murray I. Pergament. We will remain forever grateful for his generosity on behalf of the thousands of older adults we served each year. His name is a permanent part of our history, and his charitable efforts will continue to be an inspiration to those who strive to perpetuate the Institute's mission that he held so dear. Our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Irene; son, Bruce and his wife Randi; daughter, Linda Horwitz and her husband, Richard; son-in-law, Caleb Koeppel and eight grandchildren. Barbara N. Kurshan, Chair, Board of Trustees Barry T. Zeman, President Jonathan H. Freiberger and Steven Olken, Co-Chairs, Associate Board Florence Spencer, Suzanne Sussman, Lillian Wilner, Co-Presidents,Parker League
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The Clergy, Officers and Members of Old Westbury Hebrew Congregation deeply mourn the loss our beloved member Murray Pergament. May God comfort and sustain the entire Pergament family and may Murray's memory always serve as a source of blessing and inspiration. Rabbi Carnie Shalom Rose Cantor Joseph S. Lutman Hazzan Sheni Deborah Marmon President Roger Fisher Co-Chairs of the Board Raphael Greenspan and Albert Altesman
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The trustees and staff of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and benefactor, Murray Pergament, and extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family, including his beloved wife, Irene, and his children, Bruce Pergament and Linda Horowitz. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman Michael Dowling, Pres & CEO North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        PERGAMENT-Murray. To my dearest brother and partner. I will always miss singing our song together. ''Let's give a 'P' for dear old Pergament, an 'E' for Efficiency, an 'R' for Righteousness and a 'G' for Good, an 'A' for Able Today, start with the 'M' again, an 'E' for Efficiency an 'N' for Noble, a 'T' for Tough and that's the fable for dear old Pergament. Love, your brother Bob and Lois
        PERGAMENT - Murray. A patriarch in every sense of the word. When you spokeeveryone listened. Brilliant businessman and most generous to those he loved. We hope your grandchildren inherit these most special qualities from you. Your memory will live on in them. We will all carry you in our hearts. Love, Randi, Bruce, Scott, Cole & Baby Wes
        PERGAMENT-Murray. To our dearest Uncle Murray. You will truly be missed by all of us, as you were always such a big part of our lives. Our deepest heartfelt sympathy goes out to Aunt Irene, Linda and Richie, and Bruce and Randi and the family. Love, Debbie and Andrew, Lori and Howard and Arthur.
        PERGAMENT-Murray. To our uncle Murray, you always made sure we had the best of everything. We will always remember your stylish hats by the beach, all the toys and fun and the best cabana at The Breakers. Love, Lizzy, Lucas, Harrison, and Sydney
        PERGAMENT-Murray. With our heartfelt condolences to Irene and the entire Pergament family on this great loss in their lives and in the lives of all the people he touched in his lifetime. Frances & George J. Greenberg
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Dearest longtime friend, always there for me. I will never forget him. Adele Seton
      