
        BERRIE-Russ. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of an extraordinary humanitarian who was a role model par excellence in the world of philanthropy. Russ recognized that his success was a gift from G-d and generously shared that blessing with countless causes, organizations and individuals. He took delight in improving the quality of life for others. Boys Town was privileged to have Russ as an esteemed member of its Board and Executive Committee for almost two decades. Most important, he was a cherished friend. His commitment to Boys Town's mission-turning young boys from limited backgrounds into young men with limitless futures-found expression in numerous projects at the school: showing his great respect for his parents, he dedicated The Naomi and Nathan Berrie Electronics Laboratory in their memory; reflecting his compassion for his fellow human being, he funded NOLAD, a student outreach program designed to foster volunteerism; when recent developments necessitated enhanced security for the school's 18 acre campus, Russ came forward and made provisions for the safety and well-being of Boys Town's 1,000 students; most recently, recognizing the importance of recreation and physical fitness for students carrying a three-fold educational program-Jewish Studies, Academic and Technology-he made a generous gift to refurbish and re-equip the school's indoor gymnasium/basketball court and fitness center. We extend heartfelt condolences to Angelica, who supported and encouraged Russ in life, business and charity, and the entire Berrie family. Russ's legacy of caring for others will endure as a lasting blessing. Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Josh S. Weston, Honorary Chairman Raphael Benaroya, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Ronald L. Gray, Executive V.P.
        BERRIE-Russell. The faculty, students and staff of the Columbia University Health Sciences mourn the tragic loss of our dear friend and benefactor, Russ Berrie. Russ and his beloved wife, Angelica, have been among our most steadfast and generous supporters. Russ was an untiring, devoted supporter of diabetes research, education and patient care at Columbia. Together with Angelica, he guided the establishment of the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center, which opened at the Russ Berrie Medical Science Pavilion at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in 1998. The Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center has created new standards of family-oriented patient care for people with diabetes in the New York area, alongside world-class research programs aimed at preventing, treating and ultimately curing diabetes. Russ and Angelica also launched the Berrie Family Diabetic Retinopathy Program and the Russell Berrie Diabetic Retinopathy Research Unit to fight diabetes-related vision loss, and endowed innovative annual fellowship and symposium programs to foster diabetes research: the Naomi Berrie Award for Outstanding Achievement in Diabetes Research and the Frontiers in Diabetes Research Symposium. Russ also delivered memorable lectures to medical students about his personal experiences with diabetes and the importance of doctors caring for their patients in a warm, caring and humanistic manner. We extend our deep and heartfelt condolences to Angelica, the Berrie children and grandchildren, and the entire Berrie family. Gerald Fischbach, M.D. Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine
        BERRIE-Russell. The Holy Name Hospital family, The Sisters of Saint Joseph of Peace, the Board of Trustees, employees and medical staff deeply mourn the passing of our friend, Russell Berrie. Together with his beloved wife and partner, Angelica, they have touched the lives of countless members of our community. Their generosity and inspiration will live on in perpetuity. We give thanks for the opportunity to have been touched by this benevolent life. Our deepest and most heartfelt sympathies are extended to his best friend and beloved wife, Angelica, and his six children. Russ will be missed by many, but by none more than you. You are all in our thoughts and prayers during this time of sorrow. Michael Maron, President and Chief Executive Officer Salvatore Laraia, MD, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Sister Mary Rattigan, CSJP, Province Leader, Sisters of St. Joseph of Peace Kevin McCarthy, Vice President, Development and Public Affairs
        BERRIE-Russell. NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened and mourns the loss of our true friend and longtime advocate Russell Berrie. A national leader in healthcare philanthropy, Russ, together with this wife, Angelica, was a driving force behind great advances in the field of diabetes care through the founding of the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center at Columbia Presbyterian. He made a better life possible for countless people with diabetes, and is fondly remembered by all who knew him. His vision and generosity extended to many fields of medicine, and he touched innumerable lives by helping to provide caring and comprehensive services for patients from across the New York metropolitan area and beyond. We will miss him for his warmth, his friendship, and his greatness of spirit, and send our deepest condolences to his wife and the entire Berrie family. Herbert Pardes, M.D. President and CEO, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        BERRIE-Russ. The Columbia University Department of Surgery mourns the passing of Russ Berrie, a gracious and generous benefactor and a leader in the fight against diabetes. The fulfullment of his visionary philanthropy was realized in the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center at Columbia Presbyterian, a comprehensive facility that encompasses both basic reaearch and medical advancement in the treatment of all forms of diabetes. We will always remember Mr. Berrie's warmth and friendship and derive lasting inspiration from his commitment to those who suffer from diabetes. We extend sincere condolences to Angelica and his entire family. Eric A. Rose, M.D., Chairman Columbia University Department of Surgery, Columbia Prestyterian Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        BERRIE-Russell. The staff at the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center at Columbia-Presbyterian mourn the death of our beloved friend, advisor, and benefactor, Russ Berrie. Russ's inspiration, perseverance, and generous support helped to build the Russ Berrie Medical Science Pavilion, and to establish the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center. Through these efforts, Russ has helped to advance diabetes research and to greatly improve diabetes care for thousands of people in the NY-metropolitan area. Russ's spirit will continue to motivate and guide us as we work to extend his intent to treat, prevent, and ultimately to cure diabetes. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Angelica, his children, and grandchildren. Robin S. Goland, M.D., Rudolph L. Leibel, M.D., Co-Directors, Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center
        BERRIE-Russell. The Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of The Arnold P. Gold Foundation mourn the loss of our cherished friend, Russ Berrie, a visionary who cared deeply about human kind. His wise counsel and compassion challenged us to do our best to foster humanism in medicine. A champion of excellence in healthcare and in other humanitarian causes, he made a significant difference in the lives of manypast, present and future. We extend our sympathies and love to our dear friend and trustee, Angelica Berrie; his children, Brett, Richard, Leslie, Scott, Nicole and David; his brothers; family; and friends, who were like family. Arnold P. Gold, M.D. President Sandra O. Gold, Ed.D. Executive Vice President
        BERRIE-Russell. The officers and trustees of Englewood Hospital and Medical Center record with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed friend and benefactor Russell Berrie. Russ Berrie's philanthropy and active commitment to healthcare, education and interreligious understanding as a means of achieving social justice will serve in perpetuity as a memorial to his good name. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his beloved wife and our fellow trustee, Angelica Berrie, children Brett, Richard and Donna, Leslie, Scott and Patricia, Nicole, David and grandchildren Noah and Eve. Andrew F. Durkin Chairman Daniel A. Kane President
        BERRIE-Russell. The faculty of the Department of Medicine and Division of Endocrinology at Columbia University College of Physicans and Surgeons mourn the death of Russ Berrie, a remarkable man who was a devoted and generous supporter of the clinical and research programs at the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Angelica, his children and granchildren. Joseph Tenenbaum, MD Interim Chair, Department of Medicine John Bilezikian, MD, Chief, Division of Endocrinology Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons
        BERRIE-Russ. The Officers and members of Congregation Chavurah Beth Shalom in Alpine, NJ, mourn the passing of our dear friend and founding member Russell Berrie. Russ's vision and leadership were instrumental in the founding and building of our congregation and his philanthropic works throughout the world and at home are a source of pride to all of us who were blessed to know him. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Angelica and his children Brett, Richard, Leslie, Scott, Nicole and David and his entire family. Stephen Abrams, President Chavurah Beth Shalom
        BERRIE-Russ. The Center for Interreligious Understanding mourns the loss of Russ Berrie, its founder and Chairman of the Board, who was a driving force in our efforts to unite people of all faiths to build a more peaceful world. The interfaith community has lost a champion of theological dialogue, mutual respect and genuine religious understanding. By our commitment to this vital task, we will pay tribute to your life, your leadership and your lasting legacy. Stephen Ollendorff, President Rabbi Jack Bemporad Director, Center for Interreligious Understanding
        BERRIE - Russell. DOROT mourns the loss of this compassionate and giving man. His concern for the elderly and the young was demonstrated by his wonderful generosity. We extend our condolences and support to his wife and six children. His memory is a blessing. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Joel D. Kazis, President Vivian Fenster Ehrlich, Executive Director
        BERRIE-Russ. The Board and staff of Gilda's Club Worldwide are deeply sadened by the untimely passing of our dear friend and benefactor, Russ Berrie, beloved husband of our Board Chair, Angelica. Our hearts and prayers are with his family and all who mourn his loss. Diane Perlmutter, CEO Howard Maier, Vice Chair Michael Radner, Vice Chair
        BERRIE-Russell. We mourn the passing of our friend whose humanistic concern, uncommon philanthropic largesse and guidance made a difference in so many lives. He leaves behind a brilliant legacy and the admiration of all those whose good fortune it is to have known him. All our sympathies to Angelica and the Berrie family. Sam and Emily Mann
        BERRIE-Russ. We mourn the loss of Russ Berrie, a man of great determination in his fight against diabetes and a most caring, gentle, and generous individual. Sincere condolences to Angelica, and his family. Stanley Chang, MD Eye Institute, Columbia University
        BERRIE-Russell. Your untimely passing has devasted everyone. Our friendship with you and Angelica led us on diverse and important missions. You will be missed. Angelica will keep your family together through her love and wisdom. Elaine and Mike Adler
        BERRIE-Russell. On behalf of Ramapo College President Rodney Smith, the Board of Trustees and the faculty, staff and students, we wish to express our deepest condolences on the passing of Russell Berrie to his wife Angelica Berrie and the entire Berrie family.
        BERRIE-Russell. Russ-We mourn the loss of you, our treasured friend, whose love has enriched us in so many ways. Our lives will never be the same. Angelica, children and family, we grieve with you and send our love. Sandra and Arnold, Barbara and Norman.
        BERRIE-Russ. It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of a special man. We extend our deepest sympathies to Angelica and the enitre Berrie family. Ronni and Barry Weinstein Cherie and Barry Herman Debbie and Allan Janoff
        BERRIE-Russell. Seeds of Peace extends deepest condolences to Angelica Berrie and the family and appreciation for their generous support.
      