
        SCHERBATSKOY-Serge A., 94, prominent inventor, Serge Alexander Scherbatskoy, holder of more than 200 patents worldwide in petroleum exploration, died of natural causes at his home in Fort Worth, TX. on November 25. In a career spanning the entire age of electronics, his work was at the forefront of modern petroleum exploration from primitive ''thumper trucks'' on the dusty Oklahoma plains to contemporary directional drilling from deep water platforms as in the North Sea. His complex network of related patents in 17 countries made him a dominant player in the field for half a century, successfully taking on some of the giants of industry. Arriving in New York City as an immigrant in 1929, he began his lifelong career in the rapidly developing field of communication electronics. He worked on high fidelity audio circuits in the pioneering era of commercial telephone at Bell Labs, and later at Philco Radio. Moving to Tulsa, OK. in 1936, he worked for Seismograph Services Corporation and organized Wells Surveys Inc. before founding Geophysical Measurements Corporation to carry out his own work in oil exploration electronics which occupied the rest of his professional life. During World War II, he developed inventions including submarine detection devices and a method of aviation gunnery training, as well as re-designing the Geiger Counter into a portable device. In 1985, the US Patent Office formally recognized his creativity as an outstanding American inventor. He enjoyed the domestic applications of his work, from crystal radio to early television to high-fidelity music, as well as international travel on the great liners. He was born in 1908 in Buyukdere, Turkey, where his father was Second Secretary in the Imperial Russian embassy in Constantinople. His family was from a distinguished Saint Petersburg lineage, and included a Metropolitan of Kiev and the eminent Sanskritologist T.I. Scherbatskoy. He grew up traveling the world, as his father was promoted to Tokyo, then Washington D.C. and, at the time of the 1917 Revolution, was Ambassador to South America for Czar Nicholas II. Stateless, his family returned to Europe where he finished his education in Berlin and Paris, and was fluent in French, English, German and Russian. He was married to Mary Ellen Dunham who predeceased him, and is survived by four children and seven grandchildren. A family service was held in his home and no further services are planned. Correspondence may be sent to his office at 6300 Ridglea Place, Suite 914, Fort Worth, TX. 76116.
      