
        BIGEL-Jacob (Jack). Age 89, on Nov. 28th, 2002. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of Jonathan Bigel and Elizabeth Meyers and dedicated father-in-law to Barbara Bigel, adored grandfather of Jordan, Daniel, Deborah, Michael and David and greatgrandfather to Jonah, Rachel, Alexander, Andrew, Noah and Cole. Loving brother of Rose. Services to be held at Riverside Chapel, West 76th & Amsterdam in Manhattan on Sunday, December 1st at 11:45AM. History will record your role as a revered New York labor leader who fought for the working man and woman, a man whose principles and ethics stood as a rock against a turbulent time when the very dignity of labor was under assault. The annals of New York will also show that you were among the handful of leaders who prevented our beloved city from sliding into the abyss of bankruptcy during the 1970's and, as founder Program Planners, Inc., you became one of the most respected experts in municipal finance in the nation. You leave a behind a family that grieves for a life that has ended but enormously proud of the living legacy that you left us and all New Yorkers.
        BIGEL-Jack. The Board of Directors, officers and staff of GHI deeply mourn the passing of Jack Bigel. He had an extraordinary ability to bring people together in pursuit of the common good. His energy and commitment on behalf of working people and his beloved City have enrichard all of our lives. He will be deeply missed. Frank Branchini President and CEO, GHI
        BIGEL-Jack. Baruch College/CUNY School of Public Affairs mourns the loss of a member of its Advisory Board and a citizen of New York who worked tirelessly on behalf of working men and women and who helped save the city in its time of fiscal crisis.
        BIGEL-Jack. We are remembering a lifetime of friendship between our families. We cherish our memories of Jack. Condolences and love to Ruth, Jonathan, Betsy and their families. Max, Helen, Barbara and Linda Kleiner
        BIGEL-Jack. The Association for a Better New York mourns the passing of one of its co-founders. Jack, we will miss your dedication, leadership, invaluable advice, and wit. William C. Rudin, Chair, ABNY
        BIGEL-Jack. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague. We will miss his wisdom, sense of humor and dedication. We extend our sincere condolences to Ruth, Elizabeth, Jonathan, and to the entire family. Garbarini & Scher, P.C.
      