
        KATZKI-Kate, died peacefully in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Katzki and devoted mother of the late Marian Katzki. Her distinguished career spanned a lifetime of achievement including: Country Director, American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee. United Nations Representative for the International Council on Social Welfare. Co-Chair Working Groups on Girls, NGO Committee on UNICEF. Member, International Advisory Board of the International Council on Social Welfare. Member, International Social Welfare Advisory Committee, Columbia University School of Social Work, NY. Member, International Advisory Committee, Paul Baerwald School of Social Work, Hebrew University, Jerusalem. Member, Academy of Certified Social Workers. President, Council of International Programs. President, NGO Committee on UNICEF. Secretary-General, International Council on Social Welfare. Consultant on Refugees, UNHCR. Professor: University of Fribourg, Switzerland. School of Social Work, Geneva, Switzerland. School of Social Work, Lausanne, Switzerland. School of Social Work, Lyons, France. She will be greatly missed by her family and friends and the many people whose lives she touched. Memorial services will be announced at a later date.
        KATZKI-Kate. The officers, staff and Board of Directors of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee mourn the passing of Kate Katzki, widow of Herbert Katzki, at the age of 92. Together with her late husband, she took part in JDC rescue and relief operations in Europe during and after World War II and was JDC's Country Director in Belgium. She was an inspiration to people of all ages by her dedication to humanitarian causes including involvement in international social service, serving on the Board of UNICEF, as well as many other committees at the United Nations, and an Executive Board member of the International Council of Social Welfare. We mourn the loss and salute a life of heroic deeds in the service of humanity. Eugene J. Ribakoff, President Steven Schwager, Executive Vice President Jonathan W. Kolker, Chairman of the Board
      