
        GOOKIN-R. Burt, 88, of Pittsburgh, PA, and Vero Beach, FL, died on December 21, 2002 in Vero Beach after a lengthy illness. He was born on June 23, 1914, in Chariton, Iowa, and came to Pittsburgh in 1945. His wife of 16 years, Marie G. Gookin, his daughter, Cristy, his son, David, daughter-in-law, Marcy, and three grandchildren, Ann, Katherine and David, Jr. survive him. He was preceded in death by his wife of 35 years, Mary C. Gookin. Mr. Gookin retired in 1979 as vice chairman and chief executive officer of H. J. Heinz Co. after a 34 year career with the Pittsburgh based food company. Before joining Heinz, he was associated with Firestone Tire and Rubber Co., Consolidated Steel Co., Los Angeles Shipbuilding and Dry-dock Co. and Forest Lawn Cemetery. He received his Bachelor of Science degree from Northwestern University in 1935 and a Masters of Business Administration degree, with distinction, from Harvard Business School in 1940. During his career, Mr. Gookin served on the boards of Westinghouse Electric Corporation, PPG Industries, BankAmerica Corporation, the Pittsburgh Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, Rykoff - Sexton Corporation, AHERF and its predecessor Allegheny General Hospital, and the Pennsylvania Economy League. He was a member of the Board of Visitors of the Katz School of Business at the University of Pittsburgh, a member of the Business Advisory Council of the Graduate School of Industrial Administration at Carnegie-Mellon University and the Advisory Trustees of Harvard Business School. He was past President of the Financial Executives Research Foundation and of the Pittsburgh Chapter of the Financial Executives Institute. Mr. Gookin was a past chairman of the Grocery Manufacturers of America, Inc. In 1970 he was appointed Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee to establish the Uniform Grocery Products Code and served as chairman of the Board of Governors of the Uniform Product Code Council from 1973 until 1979. The work of this group established scanning systems that are now on virtually every product in the world. In 1974 Mr. Gookin was the recipient of the Herbert Hoover Award from the National-American Wholesale Grocers' Association in recognition of his significant contributions to the development of the Universal Product Code. He began his golfing career at age 5 and at age 12 won the club championship at Chariton CC defeating his father, Albert B. Gookin. He won that title two more times and years later won the club championship at Firestone CC twice, Fox Chapel Golf Club once and Longue Vue Club 18 times. In 1970 he won the Pennsylvania Seniors Championship. He served as president of both the Western Pennsylvania Golf Association and the Pennsylvania Golf Association. He was a member of Augusta National GC, Laurel Valley GC, Oakmont CC, Fox Chapel GC, Duquesne Club, Rolling Rock Club, John's Island Club, Bent Pine GC, Portmarnock in Ireland, and The University Club of Pittsburgh. Interment is private. Friends will be received on Wednesday, January 8 at Fox Chapel GC, Pittsburgh, PA, from 5 to 8 PM. If desired, the family suggests memorial contributions be made to the R. Burt Gookin Scholarship Fund or Golf Fund, c/o Chariton Community Foundation, 909 N. 6th St., Chariton, IA 50049; The Katz School of Business at the University of Pittsburgh, 200 Craig St., Pittsburgh, PA 15260; or Harvard Business School, Soldiers Field, Boston, MA 02163.
      