
        BAKER-Susan R. Was born on August 28, 1948 in New York City and was 54 years old when she died. Fathers name, Milton Kramer, Mothers name Shirley (Pravder) Kramer. Susan was the President of Susan Lawrence Gourmet Foods, 26 North Greeley Avenue in Chappaqua, New York. Susan graduated from Rye High School and Briarcliff College. She attended Cornell Hotel & Restaurant School. She gained teaching credits at University of New Hampshire. Currently Susan was in her last year at Manhattanville College where she would have gained a Master of Arts. Susan is survived by husband Michael A. Baker; stepdaughter Jennifer M. Baker; mother Shirley Perry; stepfather Howard Perry; brother; Mark Kramer; sister Carol Strauss; nephews Simon Strauss, David Kramer; nieces, Rebecca Strauss, Ann Kramer; aunts Blanch Weber, Patricia Kramer; uncles Joseph Weber, Dr. Norman Kramer; sister-in-law Deborah Kramer. Susan was the foulder of Susan Lawrence Gourmet Foods in 1982 after more than ten years as an elementary school teacher in the Chappaqua School district. In 1984 Susan was joined by her brother Mark Kramer as a partner who together developed the business. Susan Lawrence started as a small retail store in Pleasantville, NY and in 1984 moved to Chappaqua, NY. The stores in the metropolitan area. In addition, Susan Lawrence is one of the largest and most prestigious metropolitan catering firms. Her catering clients have included all area major corporations, politicians and America's most distinguished families. Susan was a leading business figure in Chappaqua who was respected by her colleagues. In her business and personal life she quietly supported many people who have become a large extended family. She will be missed by so many. In lieu of flowers, donations requested to Visiting Nurse Services in Westchester, 360 Mamaroneck Avenue, White Plains, NY 10605 914-682-1480. Memorial Service to be held at Presbyterian Church of Mount Kisco, Millwood Road, Mount Kisco, NY 914-666-7001 on Wednesday, December 4, 2002 at 11:00 AM.
      