
        ARLEDGE - Roone. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Roone Arledge, a member of the Columbia College class of 1952. His leadership as a University Trustee was marked by exceptional insight, unfailing decency, and a passionate dedication to his alma mater. Roone Arledge Auditorium and Cinema, located within Columbia's student center, was made possible by his generosity. Columbia University extends its profound sympathy to his wife, Mrs. Gigi Arledge, his daughters Elizabeth, Susan, and Patricia, his son Roone, his stepdaughter Catherine Shaw, and his grandchildren. Lee C. Bollinger, President of the University David J. Stern, Chair of the Trustees
        ARLEDGE - Roone. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of Columbia University Health Sciences Division and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of Roone Arledge. Mr. Arledge had an outstanding and distinguished career in broadcasting, and was named to the Columbia Presbyterian Health Sciences Advisory Council in December, 2000. His judgment and involvement were greatly valued, and he will be deeply missed. Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D. Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine Columbia University Herbert Pardes, M.D. President and CEO New York-Presbyterian Hospital
        ARLEDGE-Roone. The National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences expresses its profound sorrow over the loss of Roone Arledge-winner of 37 Emmy Awards for excellence in news and sports television, recipient in September of the first-ever NATAS Lifetime Achievement Award for news, champion of innovative, provocative and breakthrough television and unmatched visionary in broadcasting. We join the world television community in saluting a giant. Dennis Swanson, Chairman Peter O. Price, President
        ARLEDGE-Roone P. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President
        ARLEDGE - Roone. To Roone, and to Joanna Bistany, with heartfelt thanks and appreciation. Tom Goodman
      