
        GABRILOVE-Hilda Weiss. Courageously succumbed in her 76th year after a brief struggle with cancer. A caring, compassionate, beautiful, wise and gracious woman of impeccable taste and discernment, her life was a joy and blessing to her family and those who knew her. An accomplished artist, she turned her creative talents to interior design and space planning and earlier had a successful needlepoint design business in partnership with a close college friend. A former trustee of Central Synagogue in Manhattan and President of its Sisterhood, she also designed the needlepoint pulpit chairs in the main sanctuary which miraculously survived the devastating 1998 fire which gutted the synagogue. Committed to preserving the dignity of the elderly, she was a trustee of the Home and Hospital of the Daughters of Jacob and assisted in designing a warm and comfortable setting for patients. Born in Jacksonville, FL, she was a champion golfer and a talented singer and painter. She attended Goucher College where a prize in chemistry was later created in her name. She moved to New York City when she married her beloved husband of 56 years who survives her, Dr. J. Lester Gabrilove, Baumritter Professor of Medicine, Emeritus, at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Also surviving are her devoted two daughters Sandra and her husband Michael Saltzman and Dr. Janice L. Gabrilove, James F. Holland Professor of Medicine and Vice Chairman for Clinical Research of the Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine and her husband Michael Dirzulaitis and her two beloved grandsons, Mark and Matthew Dirzulaitis, a brother Barnett Weiss and a stepsister Barbara Gell Berk. Funeral Sunday, December 29, 9:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 81 St and Madison Ave. The family will be receiving Saturday, December 28, 68PM at Frank E. Campbell. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the Division of Hematology/Oncology, C/O Dr. Janice Gabrilove Research Fund, the Mount Sinai School of Medicine.
        GABRILOVE - Hilda. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Chemotherapy Foundation record with profound sorrow the passing of Hilda Gabrilove, beloved mother of Janice L. Gabrilove, M.D., our Associate Medical Director, and extend heartfelt sympathy to the family. Ezra M. Greenspan, M.D. Chairman & Medical Director Franco M. Muggia, M.D. Vice Chairman & Medical Dir. Barry Richter President The Chemotherapy Foundation
        GABRILOVE-Hilda. The Sisterhood of Central Synagogoue is deeply saddened by the death of Hilda Gabrilove, esteemed and beloved Past President and Board Member. We extend sincere condolences to her family.
      