
        BOWER - Wilford White (''Jack''). Mr. Bower, known as ''Jack,'' died peacefully on December 6, 2002. He was the grandson of Dr. Wilford W. White, founder of the White Hospital in Ravenna, Ohio, and one of the founders of the Cleveland Clinic with Drs. Crile and Lower. Born December 1, 1925, Mr. Bower attended Hiram College in Ohio and, after serving in the US Infantry in the ETO, attended Columbia University's Graduate School of Philosophy. Following completion of his graduate work, Jack Bower joined the faculty of The College of Wooster in Ohio. He taught graduate courses at Western Reserve University in Ohio. Winner of a Ford Foundation Faculty Fellowship, Mr. Bower returned to NY and Columbia. In his final year at Columbia, he did extensive study in psychology. He left the University to become a professional motion picture film consultant with the Eastman Kodak Company and William J. German, Inc. Married in 1954, Mr. Bower joined Metro-GoldwynMayer in NY and Culver City, CA, and was involved in the production of film for television. In 1959, Mr. Bower moved to his home at Troutbeck in Amenia, NY, and was a neighbor to poet Melville Cane, scholar-historian Lewis Mumford, then Federal Judge Thurgood Marshall, and his lifelong friend Amy (Mrs. Joel E.) Spingarn. He taught at the local central high school for four years before moving to the Millbrook School, where he became, for fourteen years, Assistant Headmaster to Edward Pulling, Dean of the School, and the English Chair. While at Millbrook School, Mr. Bower created and directed a residential program for leaders among the children of Harlem, the Bronx and the Lower Eastside in NY. This highly successful program continued for several years until he left Millbrook School to fill, for thirteen years, the same roles at Saint Andrew's School of Boca Raton, FL. Before retiring, after forty-three years as an educator, Mr. Bower headed the Upper School of the Pine Crest School in Ft. Lauderdale. A resident of North Lauderdale, Mr. Bower was predeceased by his mother, Mary Warner White, and his sister, Mrs. Bert Fageol of Saba, NA. After cremation, Mr. Bower's remains will be inurned at the Arlington National Cemetery in Washington, D.C.
      