
        BERRIE-Russell. It is with sadness that the JCC on the Palisades mourns the loss of Russell Berrie, an outstanding friend and humanitarian. As a founding member who served on the Board of Directors for many years, Mr. Berrie was instrumental in helping the JCC evolve into the family focused center it is today. A devoted supporter of The Russell and Angelica Berrie Early Childhood Center at the JCC, he also established the Barbara and Norman Seiden Camp Dream Street Fund for Children with Cancer and Other Blood Disorders, the Hildegard and Sidney Schoenfeld College Scholarship Fund, the Russell Berrie and Family Music School Scholarship Fund, and the Sandra O. Gold Music School Founder Endowment Fund. In recognition of their accomplishments and dedication, Mr. Berrie and his wife Angelica were the 2001 recipients of the JCC's Advanced Leadership Award. Russ Berrie will be remembered for his extraordinary generosity and commitment to the JCC on the Palisades. We offer sympathy to the Berrie family. Nancy I. Brown, President Avi A. Lewinson, Exec. Dir.
        BERRIE-Russell. NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened and mourns the loss of our true friend and longtime advocate Russell Berrie. A national leader in healthcare philanthropy, Russ, together with this wife, Angelica, was a driving force behind great advances in the field of diabetes care through the founding of the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center at Columbia Presbyterian. He made a better life possible for countless people with diabetes, and is fondly remembered by all who knew him. His vision and generosity extended to many fields of medicine, and he touched innumerable lives by helping to provide caring and comprehensive services for patients from across the New York metropolitan area and beyond. We will miss him for his warmth, his friendship, and his greatness of spirit, and send our deepest condolences to his wife and the entire Berrie family. Herbert Pardes, M.D. President and CEO, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        BERRIE-Russell. Of Englewood, N.J. on December 25, 2002. Gilda's Club Northern New Jersey deeply mourns the sudden death of Russell Berrie, whose wife Angelica is a Founding Board Member of the Board of Trustees of Gilda's Club. Through Russ and Angelica's tremendous generosity and commitment to the mission of Gilda's Club, our red door is open to men, women, and children with cancer and their family and friends. We offer our sincerest and heartfelt sympathy to Angelica and the entire Berrie family. As Gilda Radner once said, ''there are those who open their hearts to others...who never think twice about giving of themselves. They are the wonderful, warm hearted people who make all the difference in our lives.'' Such is the legacy Russ leaves. Gilda's Club has lost a great friend who will be missed, but we are so honored to have known him. Tony Mitchell, President Gilda's Club NNJ Board of Trustees
        BERRIE-Russell. The Board of Directors of Gift for Life mourn the loss of their friend and long time supporter Russ Berrie. A master of creative salesmanship, he developed one of the world's largest gift companies using its success to support philanthropic causes he held dear. We honor his outstanding business acumen, his compassionate commitment to top-quality health care, and his support of Gift for Life's dedication to the life saving programs of the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR). Our thoughts are with his wife, Angelica, and his family. Board of Directors, Gift for Life Mathilde Krim, Ph.D., Founding Chair, Chairman of the Board, amfAR
        BERRIE-Russell. The New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International records with deep sorrow the death of our esteemed and valued friend and supporter. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Angelica, his children, his grandchildren, and the entire bereaved family. His generosity and passionate determination to find a cure for juvenile diabetes will never be forgotten. He left an indelible mark on the spirit of JDRF. Wendy Schmidt, President Alexandra Ziogas, Executive Director New York Chapter
        BERRIE-Russ. We mourn the sudden passing of Russ Berrie, philanthropist, business man and ardent supporter of diabetes research. His generosity and committment to social, cultural and health related causes complemented a successful career and he will greatly missed. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, Angelica, and his family at this sad time. The Board, Volunteers and Staff, Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International
        BERRIE-Russell. The Kaufman Center and Special Music School mourn the passing of a man who helped us to bring music into the lives of children. Our deepest sympathy is with Angelica and the family. Elaine Kaufman, Chair Lydia Kontos, Exec. Dir.
        BERRIE-Russell. On behalf of Ramapo College President Rodney Smith, the Board of Trustees and the faculty, staff and students, we wish to express our deepest condolences on the passing of Russell Berrie to his wife Angelica Berrie and the entire Berrie family.
        BERRIE-Russell. A man who made a difference. We're proud to call you ''friend''. Nothing will be the same. Blanche and Sid Slauson
      