
        GINZBERG - Eli. Beloved father and grandfather. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, December 18, 1:15PM. ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave.
        GINZBERG - Eli. The Trustees, faculty and staff of New School University, and members of the Board of Governors of The Robert J. Milano Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy profoundly mourn the loss of Eli Ginzberg. A founder of the field of health economics, he was a respected expert in the fields of health care, human resources, and education. A member of the governing board of the Milano Graduate School since the 1970's, Mr. Ginzberg brought not only his expertise, but his counsel as a mentor and friend to Milano faculty and students. Mr. Ginzberg was a noted scholar and public intellectual who embodied the values of New School University, and enhanced the programs of the Milano Graduate School. Although no longer with us, his presence remains in his works, and the lives he has enhanced as an educator. Philip Scaturro, Chairman Board of Trustees Bob Kerrey, President New School University Edward J. Blakely, Dean Robert J. Milano Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy
        GINZBERG-Eli. The board and staff of the Charles H. Revson Foundation express profound sorrow at the loss of Eli Ginzberg, who for more than two decades headed the Revson Fellows Program on the Future of the City of New York at Columbia University. A wise teacher and thoughtful advisor, he had an abiding faith in America and always conveyed a sense of hope to his extended family of students. Through the Fellows, he inspired a generation of future leaders who spent an ''active sabbatical year'' at Columbia and who have gone on to make a difference in every area of New York City. We at the Foundation consider ourselves blessed to have known him and to have shared in his vision and enthusiasm. So too do the 230 Fellows who came to know and love him. Robert S. Rifkind, Chairman Eli N. Evans, President
        GINZBERG-Eli. The New York Academy of Medicine records with sorrow the death of Professor Eli Ginzberg, a long time Fellow of the Academy and a distinguished figure in health economics, manpower issues and the social interfaces of public policy. Through more than 65 years on the faculty of Columbia University, he was repeatedly recruited to the nation's service as a perceptive and effective consultant. In the affairs of the New York Academy of Medicine, he was an engaged participant and clear-sighted counselor. We share with our colleagues in the health care world a profound sense of loss. Jack D. Barchas, M.D. Chairman, Board of Trustees Jeremiah A. Barondess, M.D. President
        GINZBERG-Eli. The Revson Fellows Program on the Future of the City of New York at Columbia University in the City of New York mourns the passing of Eli Ginzberg, a great friend and mentor, whose guidance, wit, and legacy of wise leadership will be long cherished by the fellows and those who worked for and with him. His spirit lives on in our work.
        GINZBERG-Eli. The Open Society Institute salutes the 91 years of Eli Ginzberg, whose wisdom, experience and insight were instrumental to our Program on Medicine as a Profession, and in so many other important public policy debates of the last century.
      