
        LEOPOLD-Jutta. Unexpectedly but peacefully in her sleep in California on December 9, 2002. Born in Nauen, near Berlin, March 17, 1940 our ueber alles geliebte Jutta led a wonderfully accomplished and loving life. Jutta married Kurt (Tony), her husband of 37 years in 1965 after a seven-year courtship. The couple met while growing up in the same apartment building in Berlin and both attending the Freie Universitaet Berlin from which Jutta received an MBA. She began her professional career working as a manager in her family's construction business, Hoffmann & Co. After moving with Tony to Duesseldorf she continued her career at the Institut der Bauindustrie and in 1972 gave birth to daughter, Michaela. In 1976 the Leopold family moved to New York City. In New York, Jutta worked as a consultant until acquiring Valimet, a metallurgical company, based in California together with Tony in 1977. Following German reunification Jutta actively supported the decision, together with Tony, to acquire the Chemiewerk Bad Koestritz near Thueringen, Germany in 1991. In addition to her extensive business endeavors, Jutta was a highly regarded leader and member of the American Council on Germany, The Deutsche Verein and the Quadrille Committee as well as a strong supporter of the Roundabout Theater Company and the Central Park Conservancy. A proud wife, mother and businesswoman, Jutta loved life and lived it fully. Living on Central Park South she thoroughly enjoyed looking out over the park where she and Tony often went running together in the mornings after bringing Michaela to her school bus stop. Many humor filled evenings in New York and weekends in Connecticut were spent engaged in discussion and activity with Tony and Michaela as well as close friends. Jutta's joyful spirit, colorful clothing and character and ever-sparkling charisma brought much laughter and happiness to all who knew her. Sternlein Jutta and Die aller beste Mammi will be sorely missed and forever cherished by her adoring husband and daughter and Ja Jutta will be missed by many. A memorial to celebrate and honor her life will be held on January 16th in New York City. Further information can be obtained at 212-332-7979. Donations in Jutta's memory may be made to CARE-USA at 151 Ellis Street NE, Atlanta, GA 30303.
      