
        SPIEGEL-Daniel, 77, of Taconic, CT, and New York City, died at home from complications of bladder cancer December 4. Husband of 53 years to Marianne (Mickey); father of Jan and her husband Will Hochman of Branford, CT, Peter and his wife Billie of New York City, and Peggy of Philadelphia; grandfather to Jacob Spiegel; and brother to Judy Gottesman of Lake Worth, FL and the late Joan Kane of Claremont, New Hampshire. He was a loving husband, father, grandfather and brother who adored his immediate and extended family and was adored by all of them. He was a much beloved uncle to close to two score nieces, nephews, grand-nieces and grand-nephews. Dan's generosity, wit, humor, intelligence, honesty, loyalty and that mischievous twinkle in his eye will be missed by all who knew, loved and respected him. As a construction executive for more than 50 years, including more than 25 as senior vice president with Tishman Realty and Construction, he was a leader in the mechanical, electrical, and plumbing engineering and construction industries who took special satisfaction in the mentoring of young engineers. A consummate team member, Dan relished his role as a leader in the design and construction of many of the buildings that today define New York City. Among his proudest achievements: the TWA terminal at JFK airport; the World Trade Center; the renovations to Carnegie Hall; the U.S. Steel building in Pittsburgh; EPCOT Center in Orlando; the John Hancock buildings in Chicago and Boston and many hospitals, office buildings, educational and research institutions and hotels. Dan was an active alumnus (class of 1947) of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI). He vigorously championed direct involvement of RPI students in large scale projects such as the reconstruction of the Albany airport and the construction of RPI's new Biotechnology Building. As an officer in the Navy's V-12 program, he served in the Pacific, 1945-1946. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, December 8, at 11:45AM at Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76th Street. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to: Dan Spiegel Memorial Fund, Dean of Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 110 Eighth Street, Troy, N.Y. 12180. Or to: Genitourinary Oncology Service, Dept of Medicine, Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, Attn: Dr. Lewis J. Kampel, Sidney Kimmel Center, 1275 York Avenue, NY NY 10021
        SPIEGEL-Daniel. The principals and employees of Fox & Fowle Architects mourn the passing of our good friend and colleague, Dan Spiegel. Our thoughts are with his wife, Mickey, and his family. Bruce Fowle
      