
        BERRIE-Russell. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Russell Berrie, a valued friend and committed ATS member. Mr. Berrie, founder and CEO of Russ Berrie and Company, Inc., was a devoted supporter of the ATS and Technion-Israel Institute of Technology and gave unfailingly to a wide variety of humanitarian causes throughout the world. Mr. Berrie understood the importance of high-technology to the development of an economically independent Israel and with his wife, Angelica, established the Russ and Angelica Berrie Laboratory for Novel Semiconductors for Optical and Electronic Devices, located in the Technion's Barbara and Norman Seiden Advanced Optoelectronics Center. The Berries were also major contributors to the Palm Beach Chapter dormitory at the Technion. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Angelica, their six children and the entire Berrie family. The American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Evelyn Berger, President Lawrence S. Jackier, Chair., Board of Directors Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Aaron Etra, Chair., New York Metropolitan Region Joseph Huber, Dir., New York Metropolitan Region
        BERRIE-Russell. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA Federation of Bergen County & North Hudson mourn the tragic passing of Russ Berrie, a prominent business leader and philanthropist who inspired this community with his passion for Jewish and humanitarian causes. His support of our many UJA Federation projects, including the Annual Campaign, the Project Renewal initiative to enhance the quality of life in the communities of Dora and Neve Yosef in Israel, Israel Operation S.A.V.E., and the Israel Emergency Campaign strengthened not only our community but also the Jewish community worldwide. A man who believed that nothing is more important than helping a another human being, he embodied the ideal of ''replenishing the world.'' We admired his philanthropic vision and will greatly miss the standard he set. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Angelica, his children Brett, Richard, Leslie, Scott, Nicole, and David, and the entire Berrie family at this sad time. Dr. Leonard Cole, President Howard E. Charish, Executive Vice President
        BERRIE-Russell. Of Englewood, N.J. on December 25, 2002. Gilda's Club Northern New Jersey deeply mourns the sudden death of Russell Berrie, whose wife Angelica is a Founding Board Member of the Board of Trustees of Gilda's Club. Through Russ and Angelica's tremendous generosity and commitment to the mission of Gilda's Club, our red door is open to men, women, and children with cancer and their family and friends. We offer our sincerest and heartfelt sympathy to Angelica and the entire Berrie family. As Gilda Radner once said, ''there are those who open their hearts to others...who never think twice about giving of themselves. They are the wonderful, warm hearted people who make all the difference in our lives.'' Such is the legacy Russ leaves. Gilda's Club has lost a great friend who will be missed, but we are so honored to have known him. Tony Mitchell, President Gilda's Club NNJ Board of Trustees
        BERRIE-Russell. The Officers and Members of the Board of Governors of the Jewish Home at Rockleigh, ''Russ Berrie Home for Jewish Living,'' note with profound sorrow the passing of our Board Member, longtime supporter and very dear friend, Russell Berrie. He was a guiding force in the development of our skilled nursing facility that bears his name. An extraordinary man who exhibited a profound commitment to countless humanitarian causes and the Jewish community, he will be missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Angelica, who serves as President of the Jewish Home, his children Brett, Richard, Leslie, Scott, Nicole, David and his entire family. May his good name be for a blessing. Dr. Sandra Gold, VP Charles P. Berkowitz Executive Vice President
        BERRIE-Russell. The Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of The Arnold P. Gold Foundation mourn the loss of our cherished friend, Russ Berrie, a visionary who cared deeply about human kind. His wise counsel and compassion challenged us to do our best to foster humanism in medicine. A champion of excellence in healthcare and in other humanitarian causes, he made a significant difference in the lives of manypast, present and future. We extend our sympathies and love to our dear friend and trustee, Angelica Berrie; his children, Brett, Richard, Leslie, Scott, Nicole and David; his brothers; family; and friends, who were like family. Arnold P. Gold, M.D. President Sandra O. Gold, Ed.D. Executive Vice President
        BERRIE-Russell. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected and philanthropic leader of the New Jersey Jewish community, a YU Guardian who supported the University's Sy Syms School of Business and Wurzweiler School of Social Work. Our condolences to his wife, Angelica, and children Brett, Richard (and Donna), Scott (and Patricia), Leslie, Nicole, and David. May the Berrie family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman YU Board of Trustees
        BERRIE-Russell. The New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International records with deep sorrow the death of our esteemed and valued friend and supporter. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Angelica, his children, his grandchildren, and the entire bereaved family. His generosity and passionate determination to find a cure for juvenile diabetes will never be forgotten. He left an indelible mark on the spirit of JDRF. Wendy Schmidt, President Alexandra Ziogas, Executive Director New York Chapter
        BERRIE-Russell. Russ-We mourn the loss of you, our treasured friend, whose love has enriched us in so many ways. Our lives will never be the same. Angelica, children and family, we grieve with you and send our love. Sandra and Arnold, Barbara and Norman.
        BERRIE-Russ. Jewish Family Service of Bergen County and North Hudson extends their condolences to Angelica Berrie and the family of Russ Berrie, a humanitarian, philanthropist and friend. Board of Directors
      