
        PERGAMENT-Murray, 76. Of Old Westbury, NY and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Irene for 53 years. Loving father of Linda and Richard Horowitz, the late Sherri, and Caleb Koeppel, Randi and Bruce Pergament; cherished grandfather of Jill and Jeff Libshutz, Kyle, Max and Sam Koeppel, Scott, Cole and Wesley Pergament. Larger than life in all qualities, he will be missed by his beloved family and dear friends for his caring and great sense of humor. He was a dedicated philanthropist. He was the founder of Pergament Home Centers in 1946. Services will be at Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Rd, Great Neck, NY on Thursday, December 12, 2002 at 12PM. Contributions to the Sherri Pergament Koeppel Cancer Research Laboratory at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Ave, Ste B802, Bronx, NY 10461.
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a cherished friend, highly respected member of our Society of Founders and a Guardian of our University. With his wife Irene, he established our Sherri Pergament Koeppel Cancer Research Laboratory in memory of their late daughter. To Irene, their children, and the entire family, we extend our heartfelt sympathy. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The Tel Aviv Foundation mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Murray Pergament, who together with his loving wife, Irene, were instrumental in creating the Gutman Museum and Writers' House in Tel Aviv. To Irene and the entire Pergament family, our heartfelt sympathy. Ron Huldai, Mayor of Tel Aviv-Jaffa Robert Schrayer, Chairman, American Committee Jeannie Gerzon, Exec. Dir.
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Murray Pergament on December 10, 2002. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services to be held at Temple Beth-El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, Thursday, December 12, at 12PM. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Murray Pergament, beloved husband of Irene, a member of ADL Women's Division Board. We extend our condolences to Irene and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director Carol Ostrow Hochselder, Chair ADL Women's Division Board
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center express their heartfelt sympathy at the passing of Murray Pergament. He will long be remembered as a founding supporter. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire family. Joseph Gurwin, Chairman Lawrence Simon, President Herbert H. Friedman, E.V.P.
        PERGAMENT - Murray. A patriarch in every sense of the word. When you spokeeveryone listened. Brilliant businessman and most generous to those he loved. We hope your grandchildren inherit these most special qualities from you. Your memory will live on in them. We will all carry you in our hearts. Love, Randi, Bruce, Scott, Cole & Baby Wes
        PERGAMENT-Murray. We extend our deepest condolences to Irene, Linda, Richard, Jill, Jeff and the entire Pergament family on the loss of their beloved Murray, our dear family friend. His strength, wisdom and courage will be sorely missed by all of us. Marilyn, Lauren, and Steven Howard
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Our hearts and prayers are with our dear friends Irene, Linda, Richie, Jill and Jeff, and the entire Pergament family on the loss of their beloved husband, father and grandfather. May his memory be a blessing for you always. Lissy and Allen Kaplan Meryl and B.J. Sara Lauren and Phil Abate
        PERGAMENT - Murray. Your humor and passion, and most of all, your friendship, will leave a real void in our lives. Our love and hearts go out to Irene, Linda and Richard, Bruce and Randy, Bob and Lois, and their families. Al and Gladys Cole Levine, Abbie, Kenneth, Maria, Neil, Evan, and Randi Cole
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Our deepest condolences to Irene and the Pergament family upon the loss of our dear longtime friend from boyhood. Murray left a mark of friendship and love to whomever walked in his path. May he rest in peace. Bea and Armand Knopf and Claudia and Emil Buckner
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County mourns the passing of a sincerely caring and generous man. Murray and his dear wife Irene were among the first donors to our new campus. He will be sorely missed. Our condolences to his entire family.
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Our sincere condolences to our dear friends Irene, Linda, Richie, Randi, Bruce, Jill, Jeff and the entire Pergament family on the loss of their beloved Murray. May his memory last forever. Betsy, Bob, Ned, Nancy and Stephen
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Our deepest condolences to Irene and our daughter-in-law, Linda, and granddaughter, Jill, on the death of their father and grandfather. Heartfelt sympathy to the families of son, Bruce, and brother, Bob. Sidney, Grace and Joanne Horowitz
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Our sincerest condolences and heartfelt sympathy to Linda, Richie, Jill, Jeff, Irene and the entire Pergament family. May your wonderful memories sustain you through this difficult time and always. Fern, Lowell, Greg, Russell and Cory Kwiat
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Our family was happily a part of the Pergament family for over 50 years. Jack admired Murray's acumen and wonderful sense of humor. My deepest sympathy to his very beloved Lois and to Bruce and Linda. Rose Ullman
        PERGAMENT-Murray. To our cousin Murray, we cherish the fond memories of growing up together and the great times we shared. Our heartfelt sympathy to Irene, Linda, Bruce and family. Donald Lockwood Doris and Jerry Miller
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Our heartfelt sympathy to Irene and the children. Murray filled our life with love and laughter. We miss him terribly. A wonderful friend who cannot be replaced. The Kossar Family
        PERGAMENT-Murray. We shall always miss your warmth and humor. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Irene and the Pergament family. Helen & Harold Bernstein and Family
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Our deepest sympathy to Irene and the entire Pergament family on the loss of Murray. He will be missed and remembered by all. The Ratner Family
        PERGAMENT - Murray. Dear friend of many, many years, we will certainly miss your love, wit and caring. Our heartfelt condolences to Irene and family Joan and Joe Lehman
        PERGAMENT-Murray . We mourn the loss of our dear family member, Murray. He will be remembered in our hearts forever. Joan & Alan Libshutz Allison, Jeff & Natalie Rosier
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Murray was a dear friend and will never be forgotten. Charlotte Elias and Family
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Our very dear friend for 35 years. We will miss and love you forever. Gloria and Sherman
      