
        ARLEDGE-Roone P. On December 5, 2002. Beloved husband of Gigi, adored father of Elizabeth Arledge, Susan Arledge Weston, Patricia Arledge Loonie and Roone P. Arledge III. Stepfather to Catherine Shaw. Devoted grandfather of Benjamin and Charles Arledge, Taylor Weston, Parker Loonie and Meredith Arledge Kirk. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Sunday, December 8th, 5-8PM. Funeral service Monday, 10:30AM, St. Bartholomew's Church, 109 E. 50th St., NYC. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions in Mr. Arledge's name may be made to Childrens Leukemia Research, C/O Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Box E, 1275 York Avenue, NYC 10021.
        ARLEDGE - Roone. The President and Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York express deep sorrow at the passing of Roone Arledge, a member of the Columbia College class of 1952. His leadership as a University Trustee was marked by exceptional insight, unfailing decency, and a passionate dedication to his alma mater. Roone Arledge Auditorium and Cinema, located within Columbia's student center, was made possible by his generosity. Columbia University extends its profound sympathy to his wife, Mrs. Gigi Arledge, his daughters Elizabeth, Susan, and Patricia, his son Roone, his stepdaughter Catherine Shaw, and his grandchildren. Lee C. Bollinger, President of the University David J. Stern, Chair of the Trustees
        ARLEDGE-Roone P. Peter G. Peterson, William J. McDonough, Carla A. Hills, Leslie H. Gelb and the entire Board of Directors of the Council on Foreign Relations express their deep sorrow at the passing of Roone Arledge, a long-time Board member who contributed to the Council in so many ways, and most of all, was our friend. Our condolences go out to Gigi and all of the Arledge family.
        ARLEDGE-Roone P. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President
      