
        ORB-Phyllis McKee, 77, a Greenwich resident, died on December 4, 2002 at Greenwich Hospital. She died after a lengthy illness due to cancer. A native of New York City, Mrs. Orb was born on November 30, 1925, and was the daughter of the late C. Russell and Charlotte Feldmann. Mr. Feldmann was the founder of the National Union Electric Corporation, which was headquartered in Stamford, CT. In 1997, she married John A. Orb of New York, the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Smith Barney Inc. They resided at their homes in Greenwich, CT and Sun Valley, ID. Her marriage in 1948 to Joseph V. McKee, Jr., ended with his death in 1988. She is survived by their four children; Sandy Worcester of LaJolla, CA, Cathy Donovan of Millersville, MD, Joseph V. McKee III of Greenwich, CT, C. Russell McKee of Old Greenwich, CT and eleven grandchildren. Also surviving Mrs. Orb is her twin sister Barbara Skouras of Greenwich, CT. Mrs. Orb graduated from Pine Manor College in Wellesley, MA. She was a successful clothing designer for Abercrombie & Fitch and was a co-owner of ''The Keyhole Boutique'', a retail store. She was the founder of FINANCIER, a financial magazine. Her great love of the outdoors led her to become an adviser/participant in the television series ''Outdoors'' sponsored by the Liberty Mutual Insurance Group. Throughout her life, Mrs. Orb volunteered countless hours of public service. Mrs. Orb was a trustee of the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York and she played a key role as fundraiser for the New York University Medical Center Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine. During the years 1978-1988 Mrs. Orb served in a number of positions including Trustee of Lenox Hill Hospital and as a member of the corporation of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. A memorial service will be held on Saturday December 7 at 11AM at St. Mary Church, Greenwich, CT. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers the family requests that contributions be made to the Hospital for Special Surgery, 535 East 70th St., NY NY 10021 or The Greenwich Hospital, 5 Perryridge Road, Greenwich, CT 06870.
        ORB-Phyllis. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff, and Administration of Hospital for Special Surgery express their deepest sorrow over the loss of Mrs. John A. Orb. Mrs. Orb was elected to the Board of Trustees of Hospital for Special Surgery in 1989. A model spokesperson for the Hospital, Mrs. Orb brought to HSS a solid interest in healthcare. As a Trustee of Hospital for Special Surgery, Mrs. Orb served on the Planning Committee, the Medical Affairs Committee and the Development and Public Relations Committee of the Board. She will be sorely missed and always remembered. Mrs. Orb is survived by her husband John A. Orb, four children, and 11 grandchildren. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her bereaved family. Richard L. Menschel Chairman, Board of Trustees Aldo Papone, Co-Chairman, Board of Trustees Russell F. Warren, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief Stephen A. Paget, M.D. Physician-in-Chief Philip D. Wilson, Jr., M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief, Emeritus John R. Reynolds President and CEO Hospital for Special Surgery
      