
        PERGAMENT-Murray, 76. Of Old Westbury, NY and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Irene for 53 years. Loving father of Linda and Richard Horowitz, the late Sherri, and Caleb Koeppel, Randi and Bruce Pergament; cherished grandfather of Jill and Jeff Libshutz, Kyle, Max and Sam Koeppel, Scott, Cole and Wesley Pergament. Larger than life in all qualities, he will be missed by his beloved family and dear friends for his caring and great sense of humor. He was a dedicated philanthropist. He was the founder of Pergament Home Centers in 1946. Services will be at Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Rd, Great Neck, NY on Thursday, December 12, 2002 at 12PM. Contributions to the Sherri Pergament Koeppel Cancer Research Laboratory at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Ave, Ste B802, Bronx, NY 10461.
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York deeply mourn the passing of Murray Pergament, beloved husband of Irene and a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Murray was deeply devoted to Jewish and humanitarian causes, with a particular compassion for the elderly, and gave unwavering support to many beneficiary agencies in the UJA - Federation network. Murray's significant contributions to the Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation, where he served on the Board, and to the Gurwin Center, will be felt for generations to come. He and his wife, Irene, established the Sherri Pergament Koeppel Laboratory for Cancer Research in memory of their late daughter, Sherri. We ex tend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Irene; to his children, Bruce and Randi Pergament; and Linda and Richard Horowitz; to his brother, Robert, and to the entire Pergament family. May his memory be a blessing. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO Erika Witover, LI Chair Stuart Tauber, LI Dir.
        PERGAMENT-Murray. To my dearest brother and partner. I will always miss singing our song together. ''Let's give a 'P' for dear old Pergament, an 'E' for Efficiency, an 'R' for Righteousness and a 'G' for Good, an 'A' for Able Today, start with the 'M' again, an 'E' for Efficiency an 'N' for Noble, a 'T' for Tough and that's the fable for dear old Pergament. Love, your brother Bob and Lois
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our esteemed member and past member of the Board of Governors. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Irene, his daughter Linda, his son Bruce and the entire family. Board of Governors Lowell Kwiat, President
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Fred Weisberg, Richard Mole and all of us at Weisberg, Mole, Krantz & Goldfarb wish to express our deepest sympathies to the Pergament family on the passing of Murray Pergament. Mr. Pergament was a significant member of his communities and will be deeply missed by all of us who had the privilege of his friendship and companionship over the years.
        PERGAMENT-Murray. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Murray Pergament. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Irene, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, Pres. Leon Fassler, Secretary
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Our hearts and prayers are with our dear friends Irene, Linda, Richie, Jill and Jeff, and the entire Pergament family on the loss of their beloved husband, father and grandfather. May his memory be a blessing for you always. Lissy and Allen Kaplan Meryl and B.J. Sara Lauren and Phil Abate
        PERGAMENT-Murray. To our dearest Uncle Murray. You will truly be missed by all of us, as you were always such a big part of our lives. Our deepest heartfelt sympathy goes out to Aunt Irene, Linda and Richie, and Bruce and Randi and the family. Love, Debbie and Andrew, Lori and Howard and Arthur.
        PERGAMENT-Murray. To our uncle Murray, you always made sure we had the best of everything. We will always remember your stylish hats by the beach, all the toys and fun and the best cabana at The Breakers. Love, Lizzy, Lucas, Harrison, and Sydney
        PERGAMENT - Murray. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend deepest sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        PERGAMENT-Murray. Our deepest condolences to the Pergament and Horowitz families. May the fond memories you have of Murray be a source of strength today and always. The Mann Family
        PERGAMENT-Murray. We send our heartfelt condolences to Irene, Linda, Richard, Bruce, Randy, Jill and Jeffrey. His friendship and wit will be greatly missed. Dina, Richard, Alison and Marc Schechter
        PERGAMENT-Murray. He gave love and humor to family and friends. We will all miss you. Most sincerely, David and Edith Usdan and family.
        PERGAMENT - Murray. In memory of Murray, my friend and mentor. Max Brittain
      