
        NEISLOSS-Irma. Suddenly, our world will not be the same. Our magnificent friend Irma has passed away. She leaves her legacy of love, giving, deep caring, devotion and her wonderful family, Susan, Kathy and Richard, James and Alison, and their children. They are a standard for all. We grieve with you and will always remember her sense of fun, courage and nobility. Emily and Jerry Spiegel
        NEISLOSS-Irma. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center express their heartfelt sympathy at the passing of Irma Neisloss. She will long be remembered as a founding supporter. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire family. Joseph Gurwin, Chairman Lawrence Simon, President Herbert H. Friedman, E.V.P.
        NEISLOSS-Irma. Our beloved sister, whose passing leaves an unfillable void in our hearts and lives. Her love and support will always be cherished and her elegance, optimism and wit will never be forgotten. We share our grief with Susie, Jimmy, Alison, Kathy, Richard and all the grandchildren. Carol & Jerry
        NEISLOSS-Irma. You will always have a special place in our hearts. Your humor, your zest for life, your strength and grace will never be forgotten. We mourn with our dear friends, James and Alison, Kathy and Richard, Susan and their entire family and friends. We will miss you. Lise and Jeffrey Wilks
        NEISLOSS-Irma. We are so saddened by the loss of a great lady who has been a major supporter of our organization from the beginning. We extend our deepest condolences to Carol and Jerry Gertz and Alison and Jimmy Neisloss and their families. Board of Concerned Parents for AIDS Research (CPFA)
        NEISLOSS-Irma. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member Irma Neisloss and extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Russell Leavitt, President Fran Lilling, Women's Group President
        NEISLOSS-Irma. The Jewish Women's Foundation of NY extends our sincere regrets to the family of Irma Neisloss, a dedicated believer in the strength of Jewish women. Frances Brandt, President Sherri Greenbach, Exec. Dir.
      