
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Rockefeller University are deeply saddened by the passing of our cherished friend Irene Diamond, a true visionary in the world of philanthropy. Determined to address the AIDS epidemic, she established the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center and recruited Dr. David Ho to direct it. Mrs. Diamond's encouragement and funding helped the Center emerge as one of the world's leading research facilities. She further strengthened immunology in New York City with her support of post doctoral fellowships and professorships. Her funding of biomedicine has advanced many other areas of research, promising benefits that are profound, lasting, and universal. Mrs. Diamond was also a passionate advocate for human rights and a creative, imaginative patron of education and the arts. New York City has benefited from her extraordinary generosity, and her vision has forever changed our City's intellectual and cultural landscape. We join the citizens of New York in saluating her remarkable accomplishments. She will be greatly missed. Richard B. Fisher, Chairman David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Thomas P. Sakmar, Acting President Torsten N. Wiesel President Emeritus
        DIAMOND-Irene. Jazz at Lincoln Center deeply mourns the death of our great friend and benefactor, Irene Diamond. Since our inception in 1991, she was steadfast in her interest and support of our organization and in her belief that Jazz music must take its rightful place as one of our nation's and the world's great art forms. To this end, the Irene Diamond Education Center, which she helped to make possible, is currently being created in her honor in our new home at Columbus Circle. Irene's extraordinary wisdom, unbending convictions and generous good humor combined with her youthful energy made her a treasure. Her wonderful spirit will live on in the hearts and minds of all of us at Jazz at Lincoln Center and through the work of the many organizations and causes which she supported so generously and passionately. The board, staff and artists of Jazz at Lincoln Center all loved her and will miss her greatly. Lisa Schiff, Chairman Wynton Marsalis, Artistic Director Gordon J. Davis, Founding Chairman Hughlyn F. Fierce, President & CEO
        DIAMOND-Irene. On behalf of our colleagues on the faculty of The Rockefeller University, we wish to express our heartfelt sorrow over the death of Irene Diamond, whose passion for finding an answer to AIDS and whose commitment to research in the field of immunology, addiction, and antibiotic resistance were a source of great inspiration to us all. She was a true partner in our efforts to unravel the mysteries of devasting diseases. Many of us have the privilege of holding chairs that bear her name. Her encouragement, support, and enormously effective advocacy have benefited all scientists working at the frontiers of biomedical research. We are privileged to have known this great woman, and we will seek to honor her memory through our continued work. David Ho Mary Jeanne Kreek Ralph M. Steinman Alexander Tomasz Alexander Tarakhovsky Madhav Dhodapkar F. Nina Papavasiliou
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of Irene Diamond, an extraordinary benefactor and supporter of our School and of many other institutions and people working in the arts, healthcare, and education. With beauty, determination, creativity, wisdom, and wit, Irene made our world a better place. Her achievements stand as a model for those who strive to realize a life well-lived. Irene's legacy will lastingly enrich us, and she will forever hold a special place in our hearts. Our condolences go to her daughter, Jean, and to her two grandsons. The date for a memorial celebration at The Juilliard School will be announced shortly. Bruce Kovner, Chairman Mary Rodgers Guettel, Chair Emerita June Noble Larkin, Chair Emerita Joseph W. Polisi, President
        DIAMOND-Irene. She was a woman who saw the frailties of our world and used all the resources at her command to improve it. She set about to cure AIDS, to control firearms, to defend human rights, and to encourage artists. She was courageous and willing to support unpopular causes when conviction moved her. For New York City Ballet, she was a champion who will forever be remembered for her founding of the New York Choreographic Institute and The Diamond Project. Both initiatives showed her generosity toward dancers and choreographers, underscoring her implicit belief that artistic vitality is essential to life. She was also our dear friend, and we will miss her. Peter Martins Board of Directors The Dancers, Musicians and Staff of New York City Ballet
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Board of Trustess and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the loss of Irene Diamond, honorary trustee and passionate friend to the cultural community. Mrs. Diamond's deep commitment to nurturing creative artists and providing educational opportunities for all was an inspiration to everyone who knew her. Mrs. Diamond was filled with warmth, grace, vision, keen intelligence, terrific instincts and great love for music and musicians. Her long and full life was a blessing. We extend heartfelt condolences to her family and to her friends at Carnegie Hall and around the world. Sanford I. Weill, Chairman of the Board Robert J. Harth, Executive & Artistic Director
        DIAMOND-Irene. There is no way to capture the many facets that made up Irene. From her love of dance, music, and books; to her groundbreaking support of AIDS research in this country, Africa, and China; to her thunderous support for handgun control, Irene's philanthropic endeavors were matched only by her myriad friendships and the breadth of her interests. As a strong woman with visionary ideas and the drive to see them through, Irene was a role model to all who knew her. The void that she left behind can be filled only by the warmth of our memories of her. Agnes Gund, Daniel Shapiro Clare and Vartan Gregorian
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Board of Directors and the staff of the Film Society of Lincoln Center mourn with intense sadness the death of one of its founding directors and most generous supporters. Irene Diamond's career began in film-she discovered the script of ''Casablanca'' while working for Hal Wallisbut her contribution to all of the arts and humanities was unparalleled. She was a great and wonderful friend and we will miss her terribly. Ira Resnick, Chairman Henry McGee, President Joanne Koch, Executive Vice President
        DIAMOND-Irene L. The board, officers, and staff of the Irene Diamond Fund mourn the death of their inspired leader and beloved friend. She was an innovative philanthropist, exuberant patron of the performing arts, and fearless human-rights advocate. Mrs. Diamond passed away peacefully at home on January 21, 2003. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions in her memory to the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center for the City of New York.
        DIAMOND-Irene. Eliot Feld, the Trustees, dancers, students and staff of Ballet Tech bid a loving adieu to Irene Diamond, dear friend, benevolent supporter and frequent dinner and Scrabble companion. Irene's enthusiasm for living and giving, her certainty of conviction, fidelity in affection and the verve of her laughter were a joy to partake of and remain indelible in memory. Sleep well.
        DIAMOND-Irene. The entire School of American Ballet family mourns the death of Irene Diamond, remarkable benefactor and generous friend. New York is truly a lesser place now that she is gone. Chairman Albert Bellas, President Suzanne Davidson and Executive Director Nathalie Gleboff join Peter Martins, faculty, staff and students in sadness.
        DIAMOND-Irene. The staff and Board of Community Resource Exchange mourn the loss of an esteemed colleague and pioneering philanthropist whose vision and dedication affected our lives. Her extraordinary generosity led to monumental change and her commitment will remain an inspiration to us all.
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Board of Directors and staff of Studio in a School mourn Irene's passing. We remember her innovative and visionary philanthropy; her commitment to both the arts and education, and her generosity to and love for NYC.
      