
        WHEELOCK - James T.S. Died on December 28 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York of complications from leukemia, for which he had undergone a bone-marrow transplant in March. Born in Wilmington, Delaware, in 1943, Mr. Wheelock attended the Tower Hill School and the Canterbury School, New Milford. He graduated Magna Cum Laude from Yale University in 1965, receiving a B.A. in Italian Studies. Fluent in three languages, he had a passionate interest in Italian medieval and humanist literature, in particular Dante and Boccaccio, which inspired an impressive career as a scholar. In 1971 he received a Ph.D. from Columbia University, where he received the Woodbridge Distinguished Fellowship and a Fulbright Fellowship. After living in Milan, Mr. Wheelock joined the faculty of the University of Colorado, Boulder, and became the youngest department chair in the university's history. In 1980 he made a significant shift in his career, leaving academia to focus on real estate development, in particular historic preservation in the Capitol Hill section of Denver where he lived. Mr. Wheelock was also a founding board member of Opera Colorado and co-founder and board member of the Colorado Wagner Society. Mr. Wheelock returned to New York in 1986. After years of full-time volunteer work at the GMHC, he became Assistant Director of the Legal Department and then director of both Intake and Client Services. In 1996 he began JTSW Consulting, specializing in data management for not-for-profit medical organizations. Among his clients was the AIDS Institute of the New York State Department of Health, for which he developed, under the federal Ryan White CARE Act, an electronic records system to improve medical care and treatment for children with AIDS. The system is currently being used throughout New York State and Kenya. His clients also included The League for the Hard of Hearing and the Medicare Rights Center. In addition to Thomas Padon, his partner of eighteen years, Mr. Wheelock is survived by his son, James T.S. Wheelock, Jr. (from his former marriage to Susan Pettibone), and granddaughter, Madeleine James Wheelock, of Brooklyn. He is also survived by his sister, Catharine Johnstone of Greenville, DE, and three brothers: C. Webster Wheelock of New York; Joseph A. Wheelock, Jr., of Williamstown; and Thomas Wheelock of St. Louis. A memorial service will be held in New York on February 8. Donations to further bonemarrow transplant research may be made in his name to Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center, Box E, 1275 York Avenue, NY, NY 10021.
      