
        McHALE-Dr. Thomas Riley. An economist and Southeast Asia expert who also advised the Saudi government in the 1970's, died December 10, 2002 at age 77. Dr. McHale was born on March 20, 1925, in Waterbury, Connecticut. He won a scholarship to attend Yale University, which he entered in 1941. In 1943, his studies were interrupted by World War II. Mr. McHale enlisted in the Naval Air Corps and served in the Pacific Theater, including the Philippines. Thus began a connection to the Philippines which lasted more than fifty years. After demobilization in 1946, he returned to Yale and finished his B.A. He was later awarded a doctorate from Harvard University in political economy in 1959. Dr. McHale's life and work spanned disparate worlds. He was a businessman (specializing in developing economies) who had a long connection to academia. He was an expert on Southeast Asia who also worked in the Middle East. He published books on rubber in Malaysia and (with his spouse) on Nathaniel Bowditch, who served on the first American vessel, the Astrea, to engage in trade with the Philippines. He authored articles on a wide variety of topics, including Malaysian and Philippine economic development, the world oil market, and the future of Saudi Arabia. He served as a visiting professor at the SAIS/ Johns Hopkins as well as at the University of Malaya. Most of Dr. McHale's career involved work as an economist for businesses, foundations and investment banking firms. He served on the World Bank's Rueff Mission, led by the French Inspector General of Finance in 1962, to chart the economic integration of the Federation of Malaya, Borneo, and Singapore to form Malaysia. In 1965 he became the Executive Vice President of Victorias Milling Company in the Philippines, the largest integrated sugar mill and refinery in the world. He left Victorias Milling Company in 1969 to take a writing and research sabbatical. In 1971, he joined Stanford Research Institute (SRI) to advise the government of Saudi Arabia on economic planning, and then later became a special adviser to Harold Geneen, President of ITT. He also served with three investment banking firms as a senior economist: Morgan Stanley, Drexel Burnham Lambert, and Goldman Sachs. Mr. McHale was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a longtime member of the Association for Asian Studies. He is survived by his wife, Mary Coughlin McHale, and six children. He will be buried in Arlington National Cemetery.
      