
        DILLON-C. Douglas. 93 of Hobe Sound, FL. Beloved husband of Susan, father of Phyllis D. Collins and Joan Duchesse de Mouchy, grandfather of Joan Frost, Ambika Collins, Mark Collins, Douglas Collins, Charlotte Cunningham, Robert Luxembourg and 15 great-grandchildren, died on January 10, after a long illness. He was precedeased by his first wife Phyllis Ellsworth in 1982. He had been Secretary of the Treasury, Ambassador to France, Under Secretary of State, Chairman of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Chairman of the Brookings Institution, and President of the Board of Overseers of Harvard University among many other positions of distinction and high public honor. Funeral services will be private. The family has indicated that any memorial gifts should be sent to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1000 Fifth Avenue, NY, NY 10028.
        DILLON-C. Douglas. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn deeply the passing of Douglas Dillon, whose benevolence and stewardship profoundly shaped the course of this institution over the past 50 years. He was a visionary and enactor of surpassing greatness, whose interests and sphere of influence enriched all aspects of the Museum. With virtuosity and unflinchingly high standards he fulfilled many roles-collector, donor, benefactor, trustee, acquisitions committee chairman, and-most significantly - Museum Pres ident (1970-78) and Chairman of the Board of Trustees (1977-83). Under his leadership, the Metropolitan Museum doubled in size adding major new galleries that include The American Wing, The Temple of Dendur in The Sackler Wing, the Robert Lehman Wing, and The Michael C. Rockefeller Wing. By galvanizing the acquisitions program he underscored the Museum's mission to present the greatest works of art from all cultures and historical periods, and his tireless efforts in this area brought countless masterpieces among them Velazquez's ''Juan de Pareja'' and Monet's ''Garden at Sainte - Ad resse''-into the Metropolitan's collections for all to enjoy. Perhaps Douglas Dillon's most lasting mark on the institution is the enrichment of its collection of Chinese painting which with his support and encouragement grew from modest holdings into a collection of world preeminence; this collection is now housed in galleries that bear his name. His personal generosity did not stop there-he also supported exhibitions, publications, curatorial and educational activities, and building programs. There is no area of the Museum that has not profited from his advice, encouragement or benefactions. With dedication and passion, he persued an obsessive desire for his favorite art institution to become the greatest art institution in the world. This extraordinary man's legacy is the enlarged and enriched Metropolitan Museum of today. We extend to his wife Susan, and to the entire Dillon family our deep condolences. James R. Houghton Chairman Philippe de Montebello Director David E. McKinney President
      