
        MECHANIC - Dr. Mayer, D.D.S. The ''Mayer'' of HoHo-Kus. Although he was a man of prodigious energy who was hardly sick a day in his life, Mayer Mechanic, D.D.S., died on Saturday, January 4, 2003, of complications from a sudden stroke. He was 85 years old. He attended University of Michigan, where he graduated with honors. He went on to do the same at Temple University Dental School, where he received a special award for pediatric dentistry. He served two years as a dentist in the US Navy during WWII. Dr. Mechanic was a third generation Patersonian, whose grandfather, Cantor Jacob Landman, founded the first Jewish cemetery in the Silk City. However after practicing dentistry in his hometown of Paterson for over twenty years, Dr. Mechanic moved his home and dental practice to Ho-Ho-Kus. There, while shifting his reputation as the gentlest dentist in Passaic County to the gentlest dentist in Bergen County, he also caught the real estate bug. He began moonlighting from dentistry with his wife Bernadine, who was also moonlighting from her automotive parts business. Together they formed a joint partnership called Maybern Realty and went from their first project of renovating a defunct supermarket into an IBM headquarters to building many other office buildings and retail centers in Ho-Ho-Kus and surrounding towns. Dr. Mechanic earned a reputation as a great landlord by treating his tenants more as friends than tenants. He would always pick up his rental checks personally, just for the opportunity to chat with his tenants, since he was ever interested in people and their businesses. He was also a famous storyteller and would regale everyone with wonderful stories about his own life and colorful stories about the depression era. In fact, he knew so many people in town from his years as a dentist, realtor and member of the Ho-Ho-Kus Chamber of Commerce that many people fondly referred to him as the ''Mayer of Ho-Ho-Kus''something he always joked about with the real Mayor, Rusty Thompson. Dr. Mechanic is survived by his beloved wife of 59 years, Bernadine Mechanic, and by his three children: Leslie, Jonathan and Louis. He is also survived by six grandchildren: Max, Suzanne, Karen, Marc, Adam and Ross. The family requests that any doantions be sent to: The Alzheimer's Association, 919 N. Michigan Avenue, Suite 1100, Chicago, IL 60611. Services are today, 11 AM, at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt. 4 East, Paramus, NJ.
      