
        LEFF-Eleanor. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Eleanor Leff, a cherished friend who expressed an unwavering commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes. With her late husband Carl, who was a beloved leader of UJA-Federation and a founder of the United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York, Mrs. Leff earned enormous admiration and respect for her extraordinary generosity and compassionate concern. Among her many contributions to UJA-Federation, she will be remembered for her dedicated efforts on behalf of our Women's Campaign. The Leff legacy lives on through the continuing efforts of the Leffs' daughter Marjorie Miller. Mrs. Miller shares her family's dedication to improving the lives of those less fortunate through her exceptional commitment to UJA Federation. We mourn the loss of a dear friend, and extend our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Miller and her husband Morgan; to Mrs. Leff's daughter Maxine Myers; to her grandchildren, Betsy, Bob, Amy, Cindy, Mark, Asher and Baruch; to her greatgrandchildren; and to the entire Leff family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay Exec VP & CEO Joan Ginsburg Women's Campaign Chair
        LEFF-Eleanor. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Eleanor Leff, beloved mother-in-law of our dear friend and member of the Continuum Board of Trustees, Morgan Miller. To Morgan, his wife Marjorie, the Leff and Miller families, and all of Eleanor's loved ones, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Boards of Trustees, Continuum and Beth Israel Peter A. Kelly, President and CEO, Continuum Thomas Killip, M.D., Interim President and CEO Beth Israel
        LEFF-Eleanor. The American Friends of the Ghetto Fighters' Museum extends condolences to our Board President, Amy Miller, and her family on the passing of her beloved grandmother. She was an extraordinary woman whose philanthropy and involvement in important causes will long be remembered and cherished. May her loving legacy be a comfort to the family. Les Stern, Chairman Debbie Nahshon, Executive Director Simcha Stein, Director Ghetto Fighters' Museum
        LEFF-Eleanor. The American Committee for Shenkar College in Israel records with sorrow the loss of Eleanor Leff, beloved grandmother of our past President H. Robert Miller, and extends our condolences to the entire family. David Pernick, Chair, Board of Governors Sonny Shar, President, Charlotte A. Fainblatt, Executive Director American Committee
      