
        WILZIG-Siggi B. The Wilzig Family joins the people of Trust Company of NJ in mourning the loss of our patriarch and chairman. His contribution to the Bank, to NJ and to the world community is immeasurable and will be long remembered. As I have mentioned of my father before, his life was an embodiment of the American dream, coming to these shores as a Holocaust survivor and rising to become an influential business and community leader and philanthropist. He was an inspiration, a mentor and a friend. He treated the entire staff of the Bank as his family. True to his essence as a Survivor, he valiantly fought a dire illness for two years before passing away at the age of 76. He will be dearly missed by all who knew him: wife Naomi, sons Ivan and Alan of NYC, daughter Sherry Izak of Livingston, brother Erwin of FL and grandsons Jessie and Johnathon. Siggi Wilzig was born in 1926 in Krojanke, West Prussia. He was forced into the Auschwitz concentration camp at 16 years old. After the war, where he was the only survivor of his Jewish grade school class of 1,500, he came to the U.S. in 1947. In 1965, he was elected President and Chief Executive Officer of Wilshire Oil Company of Texas. Under Mr. Wilzig's leadership, Wilshire acquired a large interest in The Trust Company of NJ. He became a director of the Trust Company of NJ in 1969, and two years later was elected Chairman and President. In January 2002, Alan Wilzig was elected President and Chief Executive Officer of The Trust Company of NJ. In addition to many other charitable organizations, Siggi Wilzig served on the Board of Directors of the Daughters of Miriam Home for the Aged as well as the Jewish Home and Rehabilitation Center. Funeral Services will be held at the NJ Performing Arts Center, One Center Street, Newark, NJ at 2 PM today, Thursday, January 9, 2003. Burial will follow at King Solomon Cemetery, Clifton, NJ. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made in his memory to Survivors of the Shoah Visual History Foundation, or The Shoah Foundation, P.O. Box 3168, Los Angeles, CA 90078, www.vhf.org, 818-776-4691 (Steven Klappholtz). The Wilzig Family will be ''Matching'' all donations. For more information, contact the Jewish Memorial Chapel 973-779-3048.
        WILZIG-Siggi B. Yeshiva University and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law mourn the passing of Siggi B. Wilzig, a founding director and Fellow of Cardozo and, along with his wife, Naomi (Sisselman), a YU Guardian. He was former chairman and president of the Trust Company of New Jersey and past CEO and president of the Wilshire Oil Company of Texas. He was a survivor of the Auschwitz concentration camp, 1943-1945. He was a founding member of the United States Holocaust Memorial and was the first Holocaust survivor to lecture at West Point. A man of impressive intelligence and firm articulation, he was generous and benevolent, and we will most surely miss him. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, children Ivan, Alan, and Sherry, and his two grandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Earle I. Mack, Chairman CSL Board of Directors David Rudenstine, Dean, CSL
        WILZIG-Siggi. The Officers and Members of the Board of Governors of the Jewish Home at Rockleigh, Russ Berrie Home for Jewish Living, note with profound sorrow the passing of our board member, longtime supporter and very dear friend, Siggi Wilzig. Siggi was a special person who never forgot his roots or the miracle of his survival from the horrors of W.W. II and gave back to the community with his philanthropic commitment to numerous humanitarian and Jewish causes. We extend our deepest sympathy to his children Alan, Ivan and Sherry and his entire family. May his name be for a blessing. Angelica Berrie, President Charles P. Berkowitz, Executive Vice President
      