
        BADER-Mortimer E., 80. Healer of thousands. Brilliant doctor, research scientist, teacher; beloved father and grandfather. Passed away Thursday night after braving Parkinson's disease for over three decades. Mortimer Eugene Bader, M.D., worked his way from humble roots to lead a distinguished life and career. First in his class at both Stuyvesant High School and Columbia College, he was graduated with honors from Harvard Medical School. Sent to the Arctic by the United States Armed forces during the Second World War, he co-authored three landmark papers on the effects of cold environment on human metabolism. Following his return to civilization, he worked in the laboratories of Nobel Laureates Cournand and Richards, producing significant papers on the work of breathing. At 24, he began his career at Mount Sinai hospital, co-founding the hospital's first pulmonary function laboratory and continuing research and publication relating to collagen - vascular diseases, basic pulmonary physiology, and occupational lung disease. Renowned as a superb clinician and lecturer, he saved countless lives in his private practice with his twin brother Richard. Associate Editor of the American Journal of Medicine, Clinical Professor of Medicine at Mount Sinai, and lecturer at the University of Bologna medical school, he was awarded the Jacobi Medallion for distinguished achievement in the field of medicine and extraordinary service to Mount Sinai Hospital in 1983. Not just a legendary diagnostician, he was a charismatic man with a generous heart and sweet soul who was deeply dedicated to his family. A devoted chess player, he once defeated a Russian grandmaster in a simultaneous exhibition; a lover of puzzles and games from backgammon to bridge, he regularly completed the Sunday Times of London Crossword in addition to other less challenging puzzles. Possessed of an exceptional memory, he was a lifelong student of languages, history, philosophy, and mathematics. He held fast to his ideals and always valued honor and wisdom. Selfless and committed always to doing the right thing, he was a dear friend to many, loving father to John and Jenny Lyn, grandfather of William and George, brother of Richard, husband of Pauline. Services on Sunday at 11:30 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, Grand Central Station, P.O. Box 4777, New York, New York 10163
      