
        FISHER-Michael Tyler. The Horace Mann School mourns with deep sorrow the tragic death of our cherished student, Michael Tyler Fisher. A superb scholar, a respected and loyal member of our community, he was a principled, compassionate and loving individual who enriched the lives of all of us. He will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his beloved parents, Elissa and Steven Fisher, his sisters Jaime Rose and Natalia Lyn, his brother Kyle Robert and to the entire Fisher and Gerard families. We grieve with you. Dr. Eileen Mullady Head of School Robert J. Katz '65 Chair, Board of Trustees
        FISHER-Michael Tyler. The partners and staff of Berdon LLP join with Steven Fisher and Elissa Fisher and their children Jamie-Rose, Kyle Robert, and Natalia Lyn in mourning the untimely passing of Michael on Friday, January 17, 2003. In his all too brief 12 years, he was a source of happiness to family, friends, and all those whose lives he touched. As friends, we empathize with the profound sense of loss in the passing of a child of such promise. We honor his memory and hope that in the fullness of time, the grief will pass and the fond memories of Michael and all that he was will remain.
        FISHER-Michael. Dear Steven and Elissa, the Directors and Staff of the Police Athletic League join us in expressing our deepest sadness over the loss of your beloved son Michael. Robert M. Morgenthau Robert J. McGuire
        FISHER-Michael Tyler. We extend our deepest sympathy, and our heart goes out to the entire Fisher family and our friends Arnold & Audrey Fisher on the passing of Michael Tyler. Our thoughts and prayers are with you. Sandy and Irene Petrocelli
        FISHER-Michael. We feel robbed of you now and of all that you promised for our future and that of our country. You were a ''one off,'' forever sadly missed. Good night and God Bless. Your Grandparents, Arnold and Audrey Fisher
        FISHER-Michael Tyler. We grieve with the Fisher family for the tragic loss of Michael. His time here was much too short. Michael will be missed by all of us in the Horace Mann community. Horace Mann Parents Assoc.
      