
        PACHETTI-Renato M. A RAI (Italian Radio & Television) journalist and executive for more than 40 years. He was one of the first dozen journalist to organize RAI's news department, which today has more than 1000 journalists worldwide. He came to the United States for the first time in 1955 to cover the visit of the Italian President to New York. From 1960-1962, he lived in New York as RAI's United Nations correspondent. Upon his return to Rome in 1968, he joined the executive staff of RAI as special consultant to the Chief Executive Officer. He transferred permanently to the United States in 1970 as Executive Vice President of RAI Corporation. He served as Chairman of the Foreign Press Association of the United States of America from 1972-1974; from 1975-1993, he was the Chairman of the International Council of the National Academy of Televison Arts & Sciences of which he remained Chairman Emeritus. From 1977-1993, when he retired, he held the post of President of the Gruppo Esponenti Italiani, the Association of Italian Business Leaders in the United states. Mr. Pachetti was also a member of the Advisory Group of Romance Languages at Princeton University. He was a founding member and later President of ''La Scuola d'Italia'' Guglielmo Marconi in New York. He was an adoring husband and wonderful father and will be terribly missed. He is survived by his wife, Diane; his son Alex and wife Laurie and their daughter Isabella; his son Nick and his wife Barbara; his son Edward and his fiancee Michele. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st Street, Thursday January 23rd, 5-8 PM. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Avenue at 66th Street, Friday 11 AM. Interment private.
        PACHETTI-Renato. We are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our beloved Chairman Emeritus, Renato Pachetti. We have lost a valued friend and colleague. Renato served as Chairman of the International Council of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences (now known as the International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences) with dedication and enthusiasm from 1975-1993, and currently as Chairman Emeritus. We shall miss his sound judgement and wise counsel. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, Diane, and his sons and their families. The international television community has lost a true visionary. Fred M. Cohen, President Bruce Paisner, Chairman George LeClere Executive Director Board of Directors of the International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences
        PACHETTI - Renato. We have lost a staunch friend of over four decades and someone devoted to international television. Our most heartfelt sympathy to his wife Diane, his sons and their families. We shall miss you always. Jean and Ralph Baruch
      