
        COHEN-Andrew S. Age 44, of St. Paul, died unexpectedly on January 27, 2003. Andrew was born March 3, 1958, in Washington, DC. He grew up in Manhattan and attended The Dalton School and various colleges including Hampshire College, the University of Vermont and George Washington University. Andrew moved to Minnesota in 1991 where he met and married Bridget Murphy. Together they had two sons, Oliver, now age 6, and Benjamin, age 5. Andrew worked for the past three years at GiftCerticates.com as a senior computer network engineer. He volunteered many hours of his time for the Minnesota Literacy Council and Alcoholics Anonymous. Andrew loved reading (even while in the shower), long motorcycle trips, talking about and eating great food, East Hampton, Bob Dylan, falling asleep virtually anywhere and being with his family and many friends. But Andrew will be remembered most as a profoundly kind and gentle man who loved his sons above all else. Embodying a unique and wonderful mix of intelligence, curiosity, wry humor, sweetness, and a limitless capacity for unconditional love, Andrew, a man like no other, will be greatly missed. Survived by sons Oliver and Benjamin; ex-wife Bridget Murphy Cohen; parents Richard and Evelyn; sister Frances Cohen (Alan Green); sister Emilie Cohen (John Williams); sister Sarah Jane Grossbard (Michael); nieces Isobel Green, Summer Williams, Lily Grossbard and Lucy Grossbard; nephew Henry Green. Funeral services Sunday, February 2, 1:00 P.M., Jewish Center for the Hamptons, Montauk Highway, East Hampton, LI. For further information, contact Riverside Memorial Chapel, 1-800-448-1939. Memorial service to celebrate Andrew's life, Thursday, February 6, at 7:30 P.M., Mark Stanton's home, 213 Mount Hope Drive in St. Paul, MN. Memorials preferred to the Oliver and Benjamin Cohen Fund, 400 Minnesota Building, 46 East 4th St, St. Paul, MN, 55105 or The Dalton School, 108 East 89th St., New York, NY 10028.
        COHEN-Andrew. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Andrew Cohen, beloved son of Evelyn and Richard Cohen. We extend our deepest condolences to Evelyn, Richard and family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
      