
        BADER-Mortimer, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Dr. Mortimer Bader, whose remarkable career at Mount Sinai covered almost half a century. Upon arriving at Mount Sinai in 1946, Dr. Bader, along with his brother Richard, became living legends-the epitome of the ''right stuff'' upon which great academic medical centers are erected. A role model to young physicians and peers alike, he exemplified the very best personally and professionally. In 1983, The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Bader in acknowledgment of his profound professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the Medical Center and The Alumni. His didactic lectures and bedside teaching rounds have always been cited as the teaching highpoints by generations of medical students and housestaff. More than a great investigator, teacher and physician, his remarkable brillance, humor and humane relations with all, has earned him the esteem and affection of his students, peers and patients. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Jeffrey S. Freed, M.D.-Pres. William G. Stein, M.D.-V.P. Maria L. Padilla, M.D.-Secy. George Raptis, M.D.-Treas.
        BADER-Mortimer, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of a beloved colleague and ''giant''. Dr. Mortimer Bader graduated from the Harvard Medical School. He began his long affiliation with Mount Sinai in the Department of Medicine in 1946. With his twin brother Richard, he was a towering figure in clinical research and pedagogical medicine. He was a brilliant teacher and clinician, possessing an encyclopedic knowledge of medical and non-medical facts, which he imparted, often in tandem with his brother, in a rapidfire cascade of questions and answers to generations of medical students, residents, and colleagues. In addition to his outstanding commitment to the institution, he was the Associate Editor of the American Journal of Medicine. He will be remembered for his superb teaching skills, high standards of practice, and acerbic wit. We will humbly try to impart his legacy to our patients and students. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Anthony Squire, M.D.-Pres. Vicki LoPachin, M.D.-Sec'y Amy Weinstein-Admin
      