
        DIAMOND-Irene. Jazz at Lincoln Center deeply mourns the death of our great friend and benefactor, Irene Diamond. Since our inception in 1991, she was steadfast in her interest and support of our organization and in her belief that Jazz music must take its rightful place as one of our nation's and the world's great art forms. To this end, the Irene Diamond Education Center, which she helped to make possible, is currently being created in her honor in our new home at Columbus Circle. Irene's extraordinary wisdom, unbending convictions and generous good humor combined with her youthful energy made her a treasure. Her wonderful spirit will live on in the hearts and minds of all of us at Jazz at Lincoln Center and through the work of the many organizations and causes which she supported so generously and passionately. The board, staff and artists of Jazz at Lincoln Center all loved her and will miss her greatly. Lisa Schiff, Chairman Wynton Marsalis, Artistic Director Gordon J. Davis, Founding Chairman Hughlyn F. Fierce, President & CEO
        DIAMOND-Irene. It is with heartfelt sadness that the Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts mourn the passing of Irene Diamond. An intelligent and insightful philanthropist, Mrs. Diamond's passionate support of the arts, AIDS research and human rights was an inspiration to those around her. Since 1981, through many grants from The Aaron Diamond Fund, then The Irene Diamond Fund, Mrs. Diamond supported virtually every program presented by Lincoln Center, often providing catalytic grants for new initiatives. The Irene Diamond Fund currently supports Live From Lincoln Center, another demonstration of Mrs. Diamond's love for the arts and of her desire to enable millions of Americans to enjoy performances at Lincoln Center. A familiar face in venues all around our campus, Mrs. Diamond displayed her warmth, enthusiasm and generosity. She loved Lincoln Center, and we reciprocated in kind. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and many friends. Bruce Crawford, Chairman Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Perlman Music Program is deeply saddened by the death of Irene Diamond. Irene Diamond has been a continuing inspiration to us. Through the years, we have cherished her friendship, her counsel, her support. We reveled in her stories, her good humor, her appreciation for beautiful music, kind people and the nurturing of talent. We respected always her wisdom and her drive to assist those in need. We admired her for the causes in which she sought not only to assist through funding, but also her unending efforts to discover where the roots of problems were and how these were best addressed to reach effective solutions. Irene Diamond will always remain to us a treasure and a model of what a person with sensitivity, intelligence and a consuming interest in the betterment of our world can be. Itzhak and Toby Perlman Board of Director, staff and and student of The Perlman Music Program
      