
        IRVING-Michael H. Of Westport, CT., and Martha's Vineyard, MA, died January 7, at age 79 of complications of Parkinson's Disease. A Navy veteran of W.W. II, and designer of many residential and commercial properties in New England and elsewhere, he was consulting architect of The Whitney Museum in New York City and an honorary member of its Board of Trustees. He was an avid watercolorist and served with much joy as a Docent with The Maritime Aquarium at Norwalk, Connecticut. A son of the late Evelyn DuPont and Carolyn Mann Irving, he is survived by his beloved wife, Patricia, his children; Michelle Evans of San Raphael, CA, Duncan Irving, of Darien, CT, Cully Irving, of Larchmont, NY and Fiona Donovan of New York City; his step-children; Sabrina Rainford Goldberg, of Park Slope, Brooklyn and Nancy Rainford Meinelschmidt of Los Angeles, CA and their spouses. Also, nine grandchildren, two great-grandchildren and three stepgrandchildren, and a brother, Alex of Southampton, NY. He was predeceased by another brother, John. A funeral service will be held on the Vineyard at St. Andrew's Episcopal Church, Edgartown, MA, Monday, January 13, 2003, at 1 PM. In lieu of flowers, the family would deeply appreciate any contributions to the Vineyard Nursing Association, P.O. Box 2568, Oak Bluffs, MA 02557. For additional information, please call Chapman, Cole and Gleason at 508-693-1495. Everyone who knew Michael loved him deeply.
        IRVING-Michael H. The Board of Trustees and Staff at the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our beloved friend and longtime trustee, Michael H. Irving. Michael will be warmly remembered for his long involvement with the museum and, in particular, his contribution as Associate Architect with Marcel Breuer and Hamilton Smith in the design and construction of the Whitney Museum. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to his wife, Pat, his children Michelle, Duncan, Macculloch, and Fiona and their entire family. Leonard A. Lauder, Chairman Robert J. Hearst, President Maxwell L. Anderson, Director Flora M. Biddle, Honorary Trustee
      