
        BRAGER-George, 80. Of Mount Vernon, N.Y. Loving, compassionate, and devoted husband, father, and grandfather whose empathy, wit and charm affected all around him, died on January 29, 2003 of complications from cardio - pulmonary disease. Brager was a highly respected social worker whose career and writing profoundly influenced his field. During the early 1960's he joined with other activists to found and direct Mobilization for Youth, the social action organization on Manhattan's Lower East Side, which provided the organizational model for the social programs of War on Poverty. In the 1970's Brager joined the Faculty of the Columbia University School of Social Work, where he served as Dean from 1981 to 1986. Brager was particulary proud of his role helping to establish and develop the Center for Urban Community Services (CUCS) to which contributions can be made in Bragers honor in lieu of flowers. Services will be held at noon today at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 W. Broad St., Mt Vernon, N.Y. with visitation at the family home following the funeral.
        BRAGER-George. The Faculty, Advisory Council, and Alumni Association of the Columbia University School of Social Work are deeply saddened by the death of Dr. George A. Brager, former Dean Emeritus and Professor of Social Work at the School until his retirement in 1985. A prolific author and distinguished educator, he has won national recognition for his contribution to his profession and related disciplines, especially his leadership in the areas of community and social action. He will be greatly missed by his many friends and colleagues, and long remembered for his outstanding achievements. Sincerest sympathies are extended to his wife, and all the members of his family. Jeanette C. Takamura, Dean
        BRAGER-George. We are so deeply saddened by the death of our distinguished colleague and founder. He was a very dear friend and instrumental to the life and growth of CUCS. As a professor and former dean of the Columbia University School of Social Work, author, activist, and leader in our field, George's courage and wisdom will be sorely missed far and wide. Tony Hannigan, President Jack Krauskopf, Chairman Board Members and Staff The Center for Urban Community Services (CUCS)
        BRAGER-George. An exceptional leader, colleague and close friend. We will greatly miss your warmth, wit and incisive mind. Stephen Holloway Jacqueline Mondros Renee Solomon Toby Berman-Rossi Naomi and Alex Gitterman
      