
        FISHER-Michael Tyler. Born August 31, 1990, passed away Friday, January 17, 2003. Beloved son of Steven and Elissa Fisher and brother of Jamie-Rose, Kyle Robert and Natalia Lyn. A student at Horace Mann Academy, Michael was a scholar who truly excelled in all forms of creative expression. He was a loving young man who brought such immense joy and happiness into the lives of his parents and siblings. Michael had many dreams and did so much in his time here. At the early age of 12, he was already a master of four languages. Michael dreamed of being the best at all he attempted and always succeeded. His brothers and sisters loved him deeply, and he was the life of every party. Michael's intellect was surpassed only by his kindness. He changed this world for the better and will be greatly missed. In addition to his immediate family, Michael is survived by a loving extended family: his paternal grandparents, Arnold and Audrey Fisher of Pine Plains, NY, and Lyn and Jack Schwartz of Manhattan; his maternal grandparents, Vincent and Assunta Gerard of Marco Island, FL, formerly of Rutherford, NJ. Michael is also survived by his uncle Kenneth Fisher, his wife Tammy, and their children Crystal, Brittany and Joshua; his aunt Karen and Thomas Misisco and their children Jonathan, Nicholas and Dylan; his aunt Helene and Ted Brois and their son Brandon; his aunt Tina and Douglas Cuveron and their sons Douglas, James and Evan; his aunt Pamela and Terek ElGammal and their sons Omar and Adam. A memorial service will be held Monday, January 20, 11AM at Temple Israel, 112 E. 75th St, Manhattan.
        FISHER-Michael. The Board of Trustees of The Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research Foundation and The Fisher House Foundation send deepest sympathy to the family of Michael Fisher, who was 12 years of age at the time of his passing on January 17, 2003. Michael leaves behind a loving family, including his father, Steven Fisher, Chairman and CEO of Plaza Construction Corporation, mother, Elissa Fisher, sisters Jamie Rose and Natalia Lyn and brother Kyle Robert and his grandparents, Arnold and Audrey Fisher, Lyn and Jack Schwartz and Vincent and Assunta Gerard. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Fisher family.
        FISHER-Michael Tyler. The family of Lisi Coles expresses their deepest condolences to our dear friends, Steven Fisher and Elissa Fisher, JaimeRose, Kyle Robert, Natalia Lynn and the entire Fisher and Gerard families. We grieve with you. Lisi, Carole, Evelyn Ruth and Eddie
        FISHER-Michael T. The executives and officers extend deepest condolences to Steven and Elissa on the untimely passing of their son. We express our sympathies to the entire Fisher family. Forest Electric Corporation Philip Altheim, Chm./CEO Howard Hirsch, President
        FISHER-Michael Tyler. It is with deep sadness that we acknowledge the passing of our nephew Michael Tyler Fisher. He was truly one of God's angels. Michael, we miss you deeply. With love, Uncle Kenny, Aunt Tammy, Crystal, Brittany and Joshua Fisher.
        FISHER-Michael T. We express our deepest condolences and heartfelt sympathy for the entire Fisher family as they mourn the passing of Michael T. Fisher, beloved son of Steven and Elissa Fisher. Our prayers are with you. Caryn and Jeff Zucker
        FISHER-Michael Tyler. The world has suffered a great loss. We will miss you terribly. Richard, Margaret, Eugene and Danny Wood
      