
        ASHINOFF - Larry. I am deeply saddened by the passing of my dear friend and client, Larry Ashinoff. For over thirty years, we traveled the road of life together and were planning to do so for many more years. Although Larry never bought the boat of his dreams, he will always be a captain to me. My condolences are extended to Carol, Susan, Charles, Lisa and David. Donald Hecht
        ASHINOFF-Larry. The partners and staff of Hecht and Company, P.C., mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and client of over thirty years, Larry Ashinoff, and extend our condolences to his family. Hecht and Company
        ASHINOFF-Lawrence Lloyd, 75. Of Virginia Beach, died early January 18, 2003 in his sleep at home in the Bay Colony neighborhood. Born in 1927 in Bronx, N.Y., Mr. Ashinoff attended Fordham University for two years before joining the Navy for two years of service at the end of World War II. He moved to Portsmouth in 1949 and in 1955 he founded Coronet Casuals, later the Coronet Group, a manufacturer of men's clothing. The new company flourished under his guidance and hard work, at one time employing over 500 people. He remained involved with every aspect of the business until his death. In 1981, a major gift by Mr. Ashinoff to the Israel Education Fund of the United Jewish Appeals established the Samuel and Diane Ashinoff Youth Center in Kiryat Ono, Israel. He was also a longtime member of the Friar's Club. Mr. Ashinoff is survived by his wife, Carol; by their two children, David and Lisa; and by two children from a previous marriage, Susan Mintz and her husband Bob of Short Hills, NJ and Charles Ashinoff and Jan Gamage of Suffolk. His two grandchildren are Geoffrey and Tyler Mintz. He is also survived by a sister, Ruth Lewin and her husband Jerry of St. Louis, MO. A funeral service was held on Wednesday, January 22nd with Rabbi Michael L. Joseph and Rabbi Lawrence Forman officiating. Interment will be at Forest Lawn Cemetery, Norfolk, VA. Memorial contributions may be made to the American Cancer Society.
      