
        KIMBALL-Ernest Robbins, M.D., 93, a pediatrician and pioneer in the scientific documentation of the medical and psychological benefits of breastfeeding, passed away December 27, 2002 of complications resulting from aplastic anemia. Born in Arlington, MA, Dr. Kimball went on to become a respected pediatrician and writer as well as a loving husband, father, grandfather, great grandfather and a special friend to children. He graduated from Harvard University in 1931, received his medical degree from Yale Medical School in 1936 and completed his residency in Cleveland, Ohio. During World War II, Dr. Kimball became a Commanding Officer, as a research pathologist with the First Medical Laboratory, traveling just behind the front lines from North Africa in 1942 to the European Theater. A week after VE Day in 1945, he was assigned to the Dachau death camp in Germany and became the commanding officer. He performed autopsies on non-combatants to assess the diseases that GIs were exposed to, Dr. Kimball and his men tried to provide comfort to the death camp survivors. He said, ''Sadly that first day, all we were able to do was to help them to get warm. Food did not arrive until a few days later.'' Dr. Kimball was amazed at the vitality of the young babies throughout ravaged Europe. Noting while their emaciated mothers were suffering from malnutrition, their breast-fed babies were relatively healthy. When Dr. Kimball returned to the states, he settled in Evanston and Glenview, IL, Marthas Vineyard, MA. and later retired to Jacksonville with his wife of 61 years, Alicia Barber Kimball, who died March 15 of this year, in Jacksonville. Dr. Kimball began his private practice medical career in Evanston, IL. He was Associate Professor of Pediatrics at Northwestern University Medical School in Chicago, IL. Dr. Kimball was on the staff of Childrens Memorial, St. Francis and Evanston Hospitals and for over twenty years, donated one day per week at the Infant Welfare Agency of Chicago. While practicing in the Chicago area, Dr. Kimball helped found the Evanston Hospital Breast Milk Bank, which was taken over as Junior League Project and was soon in touch with the founding mothers of La Leche League International, as one of the groups two medical advisors. Dr. Kimball received the Founders Award from La Leche League in 1997, the fourth, International Award given in forty years. He also received La Leches Excellence Award in 1991. As a research pathologist and commanding officer of the first medical laboratory in WWII, Dr. Kimball also went on to write about the benefits of breastfeeding and early childhood staged access to the world. In 1968, Dr. Kimball and his wife cofounded a not - for - profit ranch for physical and recreational therapy and lifetime residency for children with mental and physical disabilities in Zion, AR. Dr. Kimballs family includes his daughter, Alicia Wilson Kimball of Jacksonville Beach and Chicago; son, Ernest Robbins Kimball III, M.D. of Jacksonville Beach; son, David Custis Kimball of Boca Raton, FL: eight grandchildren, Gilbert Valentine of Chicago, David Valentine of New York City; Ernest Robbins Kimball, IV of Jacksonville, Timothy Kimball of Jacksonville, Jonathon Kimball of Jacksonville and Michael Kimball of Jacksonville; Elizabeth Kimball of Boca Raton and Henry David Kimball of Boca Raton as well as a great grandson, Gilbert Robbins ''Chip'' Valentine of Chicago. A private family memorial service will be held in the Chapel of Christ Episcopal Church, 400 San Juan Drive, Ponte Vedra, FL on January 11, 2003. The family asks that in lieu of flowers, contributions be made to the Christ Episcopal Church, Easy-K Foundation (disability), La Leche League of Jacksonville, Or La Leche League International, Schaumburg, IL. Services under the direction and care of Quinn-Shalz, A Family Funeral Home & Cremation Centre, Jacksonville Beach, Florida, 904-249-1100, www.quinn-shalz.com.
      