
        BERGER-Martin M. The Saltaire community is grieved beyond measure at the death of Mayor Martin M. Berger Monday, January 27, 2003. As public servant and as a human being, Martin personified so much that evoked our admiration - brilliance and ability of mind, passion and thoughtfulness of cause, unshakable honesty and integrity of character. Martin guided our village through nine difficult years and many times that number of decisions, firing us with his intellect, hard work and perseverance. His sense of humor, his steadfast loyalty, his dedication to justice and fairness never wavered or fell short. A man of nobility and grace, he summoned always the best within us. You have left us, Martin, with both an unfillable void and a shining legacy. ''He nothing common did or mean, upon that memorable scene.'' Our heartfelt sympathies to Kathleen, Bethany, Rachel, Elissa and Sarah. The Administration and the Citizens of the Incorporated Village of Saltaire
        BERGER-Martin M. We mourn the passing of Mayor Martin Berger, a man in whom greatness walked. Yet our grief is tempered by our gratitude-for all he did for Saltaire, for the honor he instilled within ourselves and our public life, and for the warmth and affection his memory coaxes from those of us whose lives he touched and bettered. Kathleen and the girls have much to take pride in, and we share that pride, and their loss. Dear Martin, very good friend: your battles are won, your labors done, your victory complete; rest now well, good and gentle soul. Saltaire Citizens' Advisory Association, Hugh O'Brien, Chairman
        BERGER-Martin M. The attorneys and staff of Berger & Kramer, LLP, mourn the death of the firm's co-founder, Martin M. Berger, a passionate advocate of civil rights, champion of the underdog, community leader, and a man of generous heart and mind. We extend our sympathies and support to his wife, Keen, and his children, Bethany, Rachel, Elissa and Sarah. Memorial services to be held at the Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, 4 PM, March 2, 2003.
      