
        KOTKIN-Jean Somerville. A leader in the American Ethical Union, the American Humanist Association, and the New York Society for Ethical Culture, she passed away at the Roosevelt Hospital of the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center in New York City on Saturday January 4, 2003. She was 80. Born Jean Somerville in Montreal, Quebec, Canada on October 30, 1922, at an early age she survived the death of her mother Elizabeth when she was three and her father John who died when she was 12. She also survived the death of her brother Jack who was killed in Belgium in World War II and her oldest brother William who died of cancer in the 1960s. She completed her high school education by the age of 16 and attended McDonald College at McGill University to obtain a teaching certificate. She supported herself first as a teacher and then later as a model with her long standing friend Frankie Goodman. Married twice, once to Fred Kerner and then Leonid Kotkin, she is survived by her first husband Fred, their son Jon Kerner, her son Garth Kotkin, her daughter Elizabeth Kotkin, her grandson Zachary Kerner, her granddaughter Connie Kotkin, her nephew Bill Somerville, her grand nephews Mark and Frank Somerville and two great grand nieces and one great grand nephew, as well as many friends and colleagues who came to know her, love her and respect her over the years. She was a member of the New York Society since 1958, serving on the Board of Trustees for over 20 years, the Board of Governors of the Ethical Culture School and the Board of the Encampment for Citizenship. She was a founding member of the Weis Ecology Center and helped to found Just Women, which assists female ex-inmates prepare to return to work. She served as the Executive Director of the American Ethical Union and as admnistrator of the Humanist Institute. Despite her incredibly busy career as an Ethical Humanist Leader-or more likely because of itshe completed her B.A. from Fordham University in religious studies at 58, her pastoral counseling training from the Post Graduate Center for Mental Health at 66, her training as a Humanist leader at 69, and her certification as a Humanist Chaplain at 76. A memorial service at the New York Society for Ethical Culture is being planned in the next several months and a memorial fund is also being considered. Details will be available from the New York Socity for Ethical Culture.
        KOTKIN-Jean Sommerville. The nation of Jean's friends was large. She was an inspiration, an example to many for her Humanistic and Ethical direction. Jean was a powerful woman leader. To us, her pals, she was a fun gal, always spirited and we will miss her vivacious love of life, her red hair, and her yen for purple. Her caring and support of her friends was valued. Elissa Epstein Florence Kobrick Ruby Leader Ruth Reichbart Frankie Stein Rhea Winston
        KOTKIN-Jean. The Humanist Institute extends its condolences to the family of its beloved Board member, Jean Kotkin. She served many productive years as our first Executive Director and devoted her life to Humanism in all its aspects. She will be deeply missed by the many whose lives she touched.
        KOTKIN-Jean Sommerville. Starker and Jill Epstein White, Mark and Sandra Stewart Epstein, and Debra Epstein note with sadness the passing of a great woman and friend. We will miss you on Thanksgiving and on all the other special days we shared with you.
      