
        DILLON-C. Douglas. The Trustees, Physicians and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend C. Douglas Dillon. As a statesman, a diplomat, an international business leader and a philanthropist, Mr. Dillon made unique contributions that have left a lasting impact on art, science, industry and world affairs. Mr. Dillon joined the Board of Governors of The New York Hospital in 1947, and was elected a Life Trustee of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital in 1998. He brought his sharp intellect and uncommon skills to bear in support of the Hospital's commitment to providing the highest quality patient care. He leaves an outstanding legacy of stewardship and benevolence. We will miss his wisdom and his friendship, and we join with all those who knew him in mourning his loss. Our deepest condolences are extended to his wife, Susan, and to the entire Dillon family. John Mack, Chairman, Herbert Pardes, M.D. President & CEO NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        DILLON-C. Douglas. The Trustees and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Library mourn the death of C. Douglas Dillon. He became a Fellow of the Library in 1958. In 1970 he joined the Board and served as a valuable member for 32 years. He was keen and incisive in advice, knowledgeable in both art and finance, skillful in administration, generous in his support of the Library and its growth, and kindly in manner. We will greatly miss him and extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Suzzie and other family members and friends. S. Parker Gilbert, President, Board of Trustees Charles E. Pierce, Jr., Dir.
        DILLON-C. Douglas. The Pilgrims of the U.S. are deeply saddened by the death of their fellow member and executive committee colleague and express heartfelt sympathy to his widow, Susan, his daughters and grandchildren. He was a distinguished financier, a leading international statesman and a uniquely commited philanthropist. Henry Luce III, President Laurence C. Windsor Jr, Secretary Eben W. Pyne, Treasurer
      