
        DILLON-C. Douglas. The members of the Board of Directors of the French-American Foundation are greatly saddened at the passing of their venerable colleague and friend. His lifelong contributions to the French-American relationship and his steadfast and most generous support of the French-American Foundation, of which he was a founding member and its first Chairman, will always be remembered and will continue to influence its efforts for the cause he considered so imporrtant. We extend our deepest sympathy to Susan and to all of his family. Michael E. Patterson, Chairman Anthony A. Smith, President
        DILLON-C. Douglas. Peter G. Peterson, William J. McDonough, Carla A. Hills, Leslie H. Gelb, and the entire Board of Directors of The Council on Foreign Relations, are deeply saddened by the loss of C. Douglas Dillon. A member of The Council since 1946, he was a member of The Council's Board for thirteen years, served as Vice Chairman, and was a Director Emeritus. His broad and pragmatic grasp of our national and global economic needs was at all times, brilliant and constructive. The Council greatly benefitted from his clear-sighted leadership. Our condolences go out to his wife, Susan, and the entire Dillon family.
        DILLON-C. Douglas. The Trustees and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Library mourn the death of C. Douglas Dillon. He became a Fellow of the Library in 1958. In 1970 he joined the Board and served as a valuable member for 32 years. He was keen and incisive in advice, knowledgeable in both art and finance, skillful in administration, generous in his support of the Library and its growth, and kindly in manner. We will greatly miss him and extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Suzzie and other family members and friends. S. Parker Gilbert, President, Board of Trustees Charles E. Pierce, Jr., Dir.
        DILLON-C. Douglas. The partners of Shearman & Sterling wish to express their sympathy to the entire family of Douglas Dillon. It was our firm's privilege to have had the opportunity to work with him on a wide variety of matters throughout his life. His energy, intellect, vision and keen wit will be greatly missed.
      