
        HELD-Dr. Julius. Renowned art historian and collection advisor to the Ponce Museum of Art, passed away on December 22, 2002, at the age of 97. The Museum and especially its President and founder, Hon. Luis A. Ferre, lament the loss of this great collaborator and friend. He contributed to the creation and development of the Ponce Museum of Art for more than forty years, with his expertise and connoisseurship. Dr. Held shared with Hon. Luis A. Ferre, Puerto Rico's former Governor and philanthropist, the dream of establishing the first fine arts museum in Puerto Rico that would present to the public fine samples of European art. In 1962, Dr. Held's initiative made possible a donation to the Ponce Museum of early renaissance paintings from the Kress Foundation in New York. That same year he collaborated with the planning of the new building designed by renowned architect Edward Durell Stone that opened to the public in 1965. In 1967 he published the Museum's first catalogue, followed by the second in 1984, with the collaboration of Dr. Rene Taylor. His dedication to the Ponce Museum of Art was uninterrupted. Over the years he advised the Museum on the acquisition of the finest examples of European paintings, such as Rubens, Van Dyck, Teniers, Joos van Cleve, Luca Giordano, Murillo, Rivera, Claude Lorrain, Gerome, Vigee-Le Brun, Gainsborough, among others. He also was the reason for the Museum's fine collection of 18th and 19th century sculptures as well as an excellent Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood collection, renowned among the American collections. He was instrumental in achieving the Museum's 1987 AAM accreditation, making it the first museum accredited in Puerto Rico. In his last letter sent to the Hon. Luis A. Ferre, he expressed: ''tell me more about our museum,'' showing his undying devotion for this museum. We will never forget his love, passion, and hard work for the Ponce Museum of Art. Hiromi Shiba Director & Chief Curator Ponce Museum of Art Puerto Rico
      