
        SKINNER-Dr. David B. January 24, 2003. Beloved husband of Ellie. Cherished father of Linda and her husband David Callans, Kristin, Carise and her husband Roger Rowley and Margaret. Devoted grandfather of Christopher, Lauren, Anra and Ian. Loving brother of Donald and his wife Shirley and their family. He was President Emeritus of the New York-Presbyterian Hospital and Professor of Surgery at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University. A surgeon, scientist and a leader who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, 7-9 PM, and Tuesday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the David B. and May T. Skinner Foundation, 79 East 79th St, NYC 10021.
        SKINNER-David B. The Boards, Physicians and Staff of the NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital are profoundly saddened and mourn the passing of our beloved friend and esteemed colleague, David B. Skinner, President Emeritus of NewYork - Presbyterian Hospital and NewYork-Presbyterian Healthcare System. A nationally renowned surgeon and educator, and a man of unique strength and uncommon vision, Dr. Skinner was one of the principle architects of the healthcare landscape in New York, as well as nationally and internationally. As a healthcare leader, his accomplishments were unparalleled. In 1987 he was named President and CEO of The New York Hospital, and assembled a leadership team that successfully engineered a financial turnaround for the hospital at a time when many hospitals were beset with significant operating deficits. Having placed the Hospital on firm financial footing, he went on from there to oversee the building of the Greenberg Pavilion, which was the linchpin of the Hospital's Major Modernization Program that helped prepare it to meet the healthcare needs of the 21st century. He simultaneously implemented his vision to create a network of healthcare facilities, including hospitals, nursing homes and ambulatory care sites organized to provide seamless and high quality care to patients in the metropolitan area. He also forged affiliations with hospitals abroad. Continuing to set the standard in healthcare leadership and futurist thinking, in 1998, he successfully oversaw the merger of two of the oldest and most renowned hospitals in the country, The New York Hospital and The Presbyterian Hospital to form the NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. Dr. Skinner's commitment to the highest quality healthcare, his compassion and his integrity are unmatched. He was a giant in medicine and brought together magnificantly outstanding qualities of leadership with impeccable personal qualities of warmth, friendship and concern for others. He was loved by all of our physicians, employees, staff and leadership. We will all greatly miss him. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Ellie, and to his daughters, Linda, Kristin, Carise and Margaret, and to the entire family. John J. Mack Chairman of the Board Frank A. Bennack Jr. Charlotte Ford Peter A. Georgescu Jerry I. Speyer Vice Chairs Herbert Pardes, M.D. President and CEO
        SKINNER-David B., M.D. The Board, Faculty and Staff, and Students of the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our esteemed colleague and dear friend, David B. Skinner, M.D., President Emeritus of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and NewYork - Presbyterian Health care System, and Professor of Cardiothoracic Surgery at Weill Medical College. A renowned surgeon, distin guished leader, and health care visionary, his foresight and outstanding leadership were instrumental in strengthening the vital collaboration between biomedical research, medical education and clinical care that is the bedrock of academic medicine. He served as President of the hospital during a critical period and worked tirelessly with the medical college and the graduate school to implement strategic initiatives that supported and enhanced the education and training of medical students and residents. Among his chief accomplishments were the construction of the stateof-the-art Greenberg Pavilion and the establishment of a network of healthcare facilities throughout the metropolitan area. He will long be remembered for his wise counsel, his commitment to quality medical care, and his outstanding contributions to the future of academic medicine. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Our sincere condolences are extended to his entire family, including his wife, Ellie, and his daughters, Linda, Kristin, Carise and Margaret, who is a recent graduate of Weill Cornell Medical College. Sanford I. Weill Chairman, Board of Overseers Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University Antonio M. Gotto Jr., M.D. Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean Weill Medical College David P. Hajjar, Ph.D. Dean, Weill Graduate School of Medical Sciences
        SKINNER-David B. The New York Academy of Medicine records with sorrow the death of its distinguished Fellow and Trustee David Berndt Skinner. In three simultaneous careers he distinguished himself remarkably. In the acedemic world he emerged as a brilliant and innovative surgeon and teacher, the author of studies that advanced his field and of definitive surgical texts. He was a wise counselor to the leading surgical societies of this country and to enumerable surgical colleagues. As a hospital administrator and designer of health systems, he was an effective leader and builder, visionary in his construction of systmes linking hospitals toward greater effectiveness and service to patients in a changing health care environment. In public service, he was a widely sought advisor to governments, philanthropies and universities here and abroad, to his church, and to numerous organizations in the private sector. The New York Academy of Medicine has lost an engaged member of the Board of Trustees, committed to the academy mission of enhancing the health of the public and of disadvantaged urban populations in particular. Jack D. Barchas, Chairman Board of Trustees Jeremiah A. Barondess President
        SKINNER - Dr. David B. Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) mourns the passing of our dear friend David B. Skinner, M.D., former Chief Executive Officer of New York-Presbyterian Hospital, and former dedicated Chairman of the GNYHA Board of Governors. A world-class physician and true visionary, Dr. Skinner will be remembered for his enormous contributions to the field of health care, for being a pioneer in the development of hospital mergers and health care networks in New York, and for his deep commitment to improving the health care of all New Yorkers. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Ellie, his daughters Linda, Kristin, Carise and Margaret, and his family and friends. Edward A. Stolzenberg Chairman Kenneth E. Raske, President GNYHA
        SKINNER-David B., M.D. The Board of Trustees, medical staff and administration of The Hospital for Special Surgery mourn with sorrow the death of Dr. David B. Skinner, colleague and friend of HFS. As leader of New York Hospital, he invisioned and guided the formation of the NewYork-Presbyterian Healthcare System of which the hospital is a proud participant. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Ellie and their family. Richard L. Menschel Chairman Aldo Papone Co-Chairman Board of Trustees John R. Reynolds President and CEO Russell F. Warren, M.D. Surgeon-in-Chief Stephen A. Paget, M.D. Physician-in-Chief
      