
        WALTER-Otto L., 95. Of New York City, died January 12 after a brief illness. Driven from his native land by Nazi hatred, he became a powerful voice for German-American reconciliation in the decades following World War II. Disbarred by Hitler's antiJewish decrees from practicing as an attorney in Germany after earning his law degree there, he studied law again in the United States and became a renowned international jurist. Confronted with ugliness, he became a patron of the arts. Persecuted, he responded with charity. Deeply mourned by his loving wife, Frances; sister-in-law, Marga; nephews, Michael and Robert, and untold colleagues and friends. In accordance with his wish there will be no funeral ceremonies. Gifts in his memory may be made to City Harvest, 575 Eighth Avenue, 4th floor, NYC 10018; Manhattan School of Music, 120 Claremont Avenue, NYC 10027-4698; or New York Law School, 57 Worth Street, New York City 10013-2960.
        WALTER-Otto L., renowned authority on international and tax law, educator, writer, lecturer, and philanthropist. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Alston & Bird LLP note with profound sadness the death of Dr. Otto L. Walter who passed away after a brief illness on January 12, 2003 at age 95. Our heartfelt sympathies go to his widow, Frances. In 1955, after establishing the law firm that would become Walter, Conston, Alexander & Green, P.C., the predecessor firm in New York of Alston & Bird LLP, Dr. Walter became a leading authority on German/ American law and taxation. He was a member of the New York and German bar and a Certified Public Accountant. As an advisor to the German Ministry of Finance, Dr. Walter was instrumental in the early development of the tax treaties between the United States and Germany. Moreover, he served as an expert witness on the interplay and the interpretation of German and American law in various significant lawsuits. Most prominent among the countless books and articles that Dr. Walter wrote was his work as co-author of the four volume bilingual work on the German-American Income Tax Treaty published by the International Bureau of Fiscal Documentation. Dr. Walter lectured to numerous professional audiences in the United States, Germany and Switzerland. At New York Law School, he was instrumental in developing the school's program in international law, teaching international taxation as an Adjunct Professor of Law. Following the end of the war, he worked tirelessly to promote friendship and understanding between the United States and Germany. He was a director of the German American Chamber of Commerce and the American Institute for Contemporary German Studies at Johns Hopkins University, an honorary director of the American Council on Germany and an honorary trustee of the Consular Law Society. For his service in the promotion of German/American relations, Dr. Walter was awarded the Cross of the Order of Merit and the Grand Cross of the Order of Merit by the Federal Republic of Germany. He was honored by the German American Committee of the USA, Inc. as its GermanAmerican of the Year in 1998. On the occasion of his 90th birthday he was saluted by Governor Pataki and Mayor Giuliani. Dr. Walter was an erudite, cultivated and gracious man with a broad knowledge of and interest in the arts, music and literature, a true Renaissance man. He promoted these interests as a philanthropist, through the Otto and Frances Walter Foundation. His crisp intellect and dry wit will be missed by all of his friends and colleagues for whom a celebration of Dr. Walter's life is being planned at a time and place to be announced.
        WALTER - Otto L. The Trustees and Dean are joined by the entire New York Law School community in mourning the loss of Otto L. Walter, Class of 1954, prominent attorney in the field of international tax and estate law, founder of Walter, Conston, Alexander & Green, now Alston & Bird LLP. Proud of his distinguished contributions to the field, New York Law School bestowed on him the honorary Doctor of Laws degree in 1984 and established a lecture series in his name. Our condolences and sympathies to his family, colleagues, and friends. Arthur N. Abbey, Chairman, Board of Trustees Richard A. Matasar, Dean and President
      