
        LEEDS-Laurence C. III. Our wonderful Cary, devoted son, beloved brother, uncle, grandson and nephew. We admired and respected you so much. Strong, kind, sensitive, caring, generous, proud, brave, independent, beautiful soul. Gallant, chivalrous, charismatic. Handsome, graceful, marvelous athlete. Brilliant, world ranked tennis star. Wimbledon semi-finalist. Graduate of Collegiate School and Yale University, class of 1979, attended the Wharton Graduate School of Business. Inquisitive, thoughtful, successful entrepreneur. Always the sought after, kind and loyal friend. You made an indelible impression everywhere you went and on everyone you met. You brightened our days, made us laugh, cry, and then laugh more. We wanted to be where you were. You changed our lives. Cary, you are the shining star in the eyes of Samuel, Michael, Benjamin, Nicholas and Olivia. You will always be their hero and ours. You were so brave always, overcoming great adversity, rebuilding your world, finding happiness. You inspired us with your courage and we will always take great pride in your achievements. You left us at the prime of your life and we will miss you with all our heart everyday. A beautiful soul. Dalia, Larry, Tracy, Evan, Ashley, Christopher. A service will be held on Sunday, February 2, at 11:30 AM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, NYC. 212-288-3500. In lieu of flowers, donations in Cary's memory may be sent to The New York Junior Tennis League, 24-16 Queens Plaza South, Long Island City, NY 11101, an organization that provides free tennis programs in NYC's public elementary and middle schools.
        LEEDS-Laurence C. III. The Board of IADAF extends its deepest condolences to our dear friends, Dalia and Larry Leeds and their family on the untimely passing of their beloved son and brother, Laurence C. Leeds III (Cary). Cary's talents and courage were an inspiration to all who knew him. Nizza Heyman, President IADAF The Israel Anti-Drug Abuse Foundation
      