
        SKAKEL - Rushton Walter. 79, of Hobe Sound passed away, Thursday, January 2, 2003, at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center. Born in Chicago, IL, he was a long time resident of Greenwich, CT before moving to Hobe Sound, FL in 1993. He attended Amherst College and graduated from Georgetown University where he later joined its Board of Governors. He served in the U.S. Army during WWII. He was a member of St. Christopher's Catholic Church in Hobe Sound. Mr. Skakel began his business career in St. Louis for New York-based Great Lakes Carbon Corporation and served as its chairman for over twenty years. Among his annual rituals was participating in weeklong trail rides with Rancheros Visitadores in Santa Ynez Valley, CA and visiting the Abbey of Gethsemane in Kentucky. He loved to play golf, tennis and ski. He was a generous, loving, kind man who always had a kind word to say to friend and stranger alike. He supported Hill House Senior Center in Greenwich and the Alcoholism Council of New York. His first wife, Anne Reynolds Skakel predeceased him in 1973. He is survived by his wife Anna Mae Skakel of Hobe Sound; his son Rushton W. Skakel, Jr. and his wife Helen of Bogota, Colombia; daughter, Julie Skakel of Darien, CT; son, Thomas Skakel and his wife Anne of Lennox, MA; son, John Skakel and his wife Eileen of Portland, OR; son, Michael Skakel of CT; son David Skakel and his wife Kate of Mosier, OR; and Stephen Skakel of New Canaan, CT; his stepdaughters, Elizabeth Mallozzi of New Canaan, CT and Jennifer Kennedy of Carbondale, CO; his sisters, Ethel Kennedy of McLean, VA and Ann McCooey of Greenwich, CT; 13 grandchildren and two step grandchildren. Mass of the Resurrection will be celebrated, Saturday, January 4 at 11 AM at St. Christopher Catholic Church in Hobe Sound, FL. Friends may call from 4:00 to 8:00 PM at Knapp Funeral Home, Greenwich, CT, Thursday, January 9. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at St. Mary's Catholic Church in Greenwich, CT, Friday, January 10. Interment will follow at St. Mary's Cemetery. For more information call Young & Prill Funeral Home, Stuart, 772-223-9300.
      