
        DWORKEN - Rabbi Steven M. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS) express profound sorrow over the untimely passing of an esteemed and devoted leader of the Jewish community. Executive vice president of the Rabbinical Council of America, Rabbi Dworken was formerly assistant director of RIETS' Max Stern Division of Communal Services. He also served as its director of rabbinic services and past president of RIETS' Rabbinic Alumni. A doctor of theology, he was ordained at RIETS and earned degrees from Yeshiva College and YU's Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology. As a communal leader he served with distinction as rabbi at Cong. Anshe Chesed, Linden, NJ, for 22 years, past president of the Rabbinical Council of New Jersey and the Union County Board of Rabbis, and vice president, treasurer, and secretary of the Rabbinical Council of America. Rabbi Dworken was possessed of wisdom, grace, and humility, a man who embraced and embodied the ideals of Torah Umadda. He will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Susan, children Naomi (and Yechiel) Rotblat, Aliza (and Jonathan) Frohlich, and Arye, and grandchildren. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Julius Berman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees
        DWORKEN-Rabbi Steven. The Rabbinical Council of America is profoundly shocked and saddened by the passing of our beloved and dedicated Executive Vice President, Rabbi Steven Dworken. Rabbi Dworken worked tirelessly for Klal Yisrael and the rabbinate. His warmth, wisdom, and good will made him an effective advocate and leader. He skillfully broadened the scope and reach of the Rabbinical Council of America in the United States of America and Israel. He was a friend and mentor to hundreds of rabbis. To his beloved Rabbanit Susan and his children and grandchildren, Nomi, Yechiel, Tzvi, Ezra, Ben Zion, Aliza, Jonathan, Avraham and Arye, we extend our deepest condolences. Rabbi Hershel Billet President Rabbi Kenneth Hain Honorary President Rabbi Kenneth Auman First Vice President
        DWORKEN-Rabbi Steven. The Orthodox Union and its constituent synagogues are deeply saddened by the sudden and tragic passing of Rabbi Steven Dworken, Executive Vice President of the Rabinical Council of America. His commitment to the cause of Torah leaves an indelible mark on the heart and soul of the American rabbinate. We will sorely miss his staunch friendship and personal warmth. We extend condolences to his widow, Dr. Susan Dworken, to his family, and to the membership of the R.C.A. to whom he provided exemplary leadership. May they be comforted together with all who mourn Zion and Jerusalem. Harvey Blitz, President Steven Savitsky, Chm of Brd Rabbi Tzvi H. Weinreb, Executive V.P.
      