
        SHUKAT-Scott. Beloved husband of Evelyn Shukat, M.D. Devoted father of Jonathan. Dear son of Harry and Florence Shukat. Loving brother of Peter and Yvette Shukat and Susan Kasten. Adoring uncle. Service 10am Sunday at ''The Riverside'', 76th St & Amsterdam Ave, NYC. In lieu of flowers please send contributions to Lincoln Hospital Auxiliary Fund Child Advocacy Center, c/o Lincoln Hospital, 234 E. 149th St, Bronx, NY 10451.
        SHUKAT-Scott. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Scott Shukat on January 9, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on January 12, 10 AM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel on 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Sally Jessy Raphael, Prior Fred C. Klein, Treasurer Stu Cantor, Scribe Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        SHUKAT-Scott. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our beloved longtime member Scott Shukat. We will remember his passionate devotion to family and friends, his indomitable spirit, integrity and courage under affliction. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife Evelyn and their son Jonathan and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D., Senior Rabbi Nancy Solomon, President
        SHUKAT-Scott. With love and great sadness we mourn the passing of our brother and uncle, Scott, on January 9, 2003. We extend our deepest condolences to his devoted and beloved wife Evelyn, and his adoring son Jonathan. We know his strength will guide them in this most difficult time. He shall be missed. May he rest in peace. With much love, Yvette and Peter and Our Family
        SHUKAT - Scott. Cherished friend and personal manager for over twenty years. I am forever grateful for his strength, honesty, loyalty, intelligence and perseverance. My family and I will always honor his memory. Our love and deepest sympathies to his wife Evelyn and his son Jonathan. Alan, Janis, Anna Nora Menken
      