
        RESSNER-John W. A native New Yorker and passionate patron of the arts, died on January 9 in the city he loved from complications following a stroke. He was 41. After graduating Princeton University Cum Laude in 1984 with a double major in Computer Sciences and Electrical Engineering, John received his MBA in Finance from the Columbia Business School in 1988. By day, John worked as Executive Vice President, Director of Research, and Portfolio Manager in the Fixed Income Division of the Capital Group Companies, an L.A.based group with offices in New York. He divided his time between the two cities and most enjoyed mentoring younger employees to preserve the Company's institutional memory. He served on the Boards of Capital Research Company and Capital International Research, Inc. Those who knew and loved John also felt his gentle but powerful passion for life in his pursuits outside of work. He served as Chairman of the Princeton Alumni Schools Committee in Manhattan for the five years prior to his death and graduated from the French Culinary Institute in 1994, where he trained in the art of pastry and chocolate-making under the direction of Jacques Torres. He was a devotee of amateur astronomy, physical training, the Mets and the Jets, and wine collecting and was an enthusiastic member of the WIGWAM Wine Group of Los Angeles. He generously supported many arts organizations and non-profit institutions including Princeton University, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, The Metropolitan Opera, American Museum of Natural History, Los Angeles Opera, Central Park Conservancy and Wildlife Conservation Society. John loved most dearly his wife Laura Bemben Ressner, his corgi Ollie, his mother Natalie G. Ressner, the Island of Nantucket and New York City. He is survived by all of them. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, January 18 at 2PM at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel in Manhattan. In lieu of flowers or gifts, donations may be made in his name to the American Heart Association (800 - AHA - USA1), or to Princeton University through the John Ressner '84 Memorial Fund (send donations C/O Nancy Kalmikoff, Princeton University, P.O. Box 5357, Princeton, N.J. 08543-5357 and include the name of the fund.)
        RESSNER-John Walter. Our pride, our joy. Adored and loving son for 41 years of Natalie and the late Michael. ''There is a comfort in the strength of love; twill make a thing endurable, which else would break the heart.''
      