
        GILPATRIC-Miriam Thorne. Died Tuesday, January 7, at her home in New York City. Mrs. Gilpatric was born in Clinton, IN. She led an active and interesting life and traveled widely with her three devoted and prominent husbands. Her first husband and the father of her children, Fulton Cahners, who worked for Cahners Publishing Company, predeceased Mrs. Gilpatric. She subsequently married Landon Thorne, Jr., a banker, newspaper publisher and diplomat, and Roswell Gilpatric, Deputy Secretary of Defense under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson and a former member and presiding partner of the New York City law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore. Both Mr. Thorne and Mr. Gilpatric also predeceased Mrs. Gilpatric. Mrs. Gilpatric was an active patron of many institutions. She served as a trustee of the American University in Cairo, the National Foundation for Facial Reconstruction, and the Wildlife Conservation Society, and was a director of The Thorne Foundation. She was also a member of the Director's Round Table of the Pierpont Morgan Library, a contributor to the Mayo Clinic and a long-time patron of WNET Channel Thirteen and The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Mrs Gilpatric is survived by her sister, Bettie Watson, of Louisville, KY, and by her two children, Laura CahnersFord of Charlotte, VT, and John Cahners of Portola Valley, CA, and their children, William and Sarah Ford and Kyle Cahners. She is also survived by three stepchildren, Landon Thorne, III, of Sheldon, SC, David Thorne of Brookline, MA, and Julia Thorne of Bozeman, MT, and their children, Landon, Christopher, Charles, Thomas, David, William, Emma, Vanessa and Alexandra. A memorial service will be held on Friday, January 17, 11:00 A.M., at St. James' Church, 865 Madison Avenue, New York, NY. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to any of the following charitable organizations: National Foundation for Facial Reconstruction, New York, NY; Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN; WNET Channel Thirteen, New York, NY; and The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, NY.
      