
        FALK-Isidore. With love and great sadness, we mourn the passing of Isidore (''Issie'') Falk on January 6, 2003, beloved husband of the late Anne Falk, cherished father of Serafina (Melvin), Rebecca (John), Maurice (Judi) and the late Michael (Barbara), adored grandfather of Nathaniel (Esther), Monica (Ira), Cindy (David), Jessica (Chaim), James, Jeremy, Michelle (William), Leslie, Annie, Harry (Claudia) and Eve, treasured great grandfather of Elizabeth, David, Emily, Joshua, Harry, Alexander, Sarah, Abigail, Abraham, Simon, Michael and Benjamin. We remember him with love, laughter and admiration. Funeral services at Park East Synagogue on January 8 at 9:30 AM. Shiva will be observed at 188 East 70th Street.
        FALK-Isidore. Bar-Ilan University and its American Friends mourn with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed benefactor and honorary alumnus, Isidore Falk. A highly successful textile manufacturer and business investor, Mr. Falk, along with his late wife Anne were staunchly committed to our Jewish heritage which was reflected by their devotion to Jewish education as well as their identification with the strengthening and development of the State of Israel. This was further evidenced by his involvement with and generosity to numerous significant Jewish institutions here, especially on Long Island and in Israel, and other institutions of higher learning attended by his children who are steadfastly continuing this tradition. From humble beginnings when the Falk home in Woodmere, Long Island served as a bus stop for Jewish Day School children, Mr. Falk went on to become a patron of vital scientific research. At Bar-Ilan University, Mr. Falk established the Michael David Falk Chair in Laser Photo-therapy in memory of his son Michael and The Anne and Isidore Falk Laser Photo-therapy Laboratory. Subsequently he founded the Isidore and Anne Falk International Conference Complex which today serves as a premier venue for international conferences, symposia, seminars, lectures and academic classes particularly in the area of business administration and economics. We extend our sincerest condolences to Mr. Falk's daughters Serafina Bier Weiner and Rebecca Steindecker, his son Maurice as well as the other members of the family. May they be comforted among all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman Chancellor, Bar-Ilan University Prof. Moshe Kaveh President, Bar-Ilan University Melvin Stein President, American Friends of Bar-Ilan Brig. Gen. (Ret.) Yehuda Halevy Executive Vice President, Bar-Ilan University
        FALK-Isidore. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourn the loss of our esteemed Benefactor, whose foresight and generosity led to the establishment of the Anne and Isidore Falk Recreation Center on our campus. To his children Maurice and Judi Falk, Rebecca and John Steindecker, Serafina and Dr. Melvyn Weiner; to his grandchildren, great grandchildren and all the members of the family, we offer our profound condolences. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        FALK-Isidore. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our esteemed member and benefactor Isidore Falk. The beautification of our Sanctuary is one of his many legacies of tzedakah in support of synagogue life, Jewish education and the state of Israel. Deepest sympathy to his beloved children Maurice and Judi Falk, Rebecca and John Steindecker, and our devoted members Serafina (the late Jules Bier) and Dr. Melvyn Weiner; his grandchildren including our members Nathaniel and Esther Bier, and great grandchildren. Funeral services Main Sanctuary, Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67 St., Wednesday, January 8, at 9:30 AM. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        FALK-Isidore. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School mourns the death of Isidore Falk, patron of education, who sponsored the Anne and Isidore Falk Computer Lab and established a generous scholarship fund for deserving students. His memory is a blessing to his children Maurice and Judi Falk, Rebecca and John Steindecker, Serafina and Dr. Melvyn Weiner, his grandchildren and great grandchildren. May they find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.
        FALK-Isidore. Park East Synagogue Sisterhood mourns the passing of Isidore Falk, beloved father of our dedicated Trustee Serafina Weiner. May she and her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Maguy Naparstek, President Beverly Greenberg, Chair
      