
        DIAMOND-Irene. Jazz at Lincoln Center deeply mourns the death of our great friend and benefactor, Irene Diamond. Since our inception in 1991, she was steadfast in her interest and support of our organization and in her belief that Jazz music must take its rightful place as one of our nation's and the world's great art forms. To this end, the Irene Diamond Education Center, which she helped to make possible, is currently being created in her honor in our new home at Columbus Circle. Irene's extraordinary wisdom, unbending convictions and generous good humor combined with her youthful energy made her a treasure. Her wonderful spirit will live on in the hearts and minds of all of us at Jazz at Lincoln Center and through the work of the many organizations and causes which she supported so generously and passionately. The board, staff and artists of Jazz at Lincoln Center all loved her and will miss her greatly. Lisa Schiff, Chairman Wynton Marsalis, Artistic Director Gordon J. Davis, Founding Chairman Hughlyn F. Fierce, President & CEO
        DIAMOND-Irene. It is with heartfelt sadness that the Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts mourn the passing of Irene Diamond. An intelligent and insightful philanthropist, Mrs. Diamond's passionate support of the arts, AIDS research and human rights was an inspiration to those around her. Since 1981, through many grants from The Aaron Diamond Fund, then The Irene Diamond Fund, Mrs. Diamond supported virtually every program presented by Lincoln Center, often providing catalytic grants for new initiatives. The Irene Diamond Fund currently supports Live From Lincoln Center, another demonstration of Mrs. Diamond's love for the arts and of her desire to enable millions of Americans to enjoy performances at Lincoln Center. A familiar face in venues all around our campus, Mrs. Diamond displayed her warmth, enthusiasm and generosity. She loved Lincoln Center, and we reciprocated in kind. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family and many friends. Bruce Crawford, Chairman Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        DIAMOND-Irene. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the death of our dear friend and champion, whose vitality, intelligence, and creativity will be greatly missed. Mrs. Diamond's legacy survives in the many rich opportunities she created for individuals who-like herselfstrive to make the world a finer place. At the Library, she helped many achieve dreams of becoming professional librarians through the Irene Diamond Scholarship Fund. She propelled a critical effort to rebuild one of our most vital branch libraries, Chatham Square. Further, her support of the Scholars Program at the Schomburg Center ensures future scholarship on the African American experience. Truly, Irene Diamond embodied Sheridan's idea of ''a life spent worthily...measured by a nobler line-by deeds...'' Samuel C. Butler, Chairman Mrs. Vincent Astor, Honorary Chairman Andrew Heiskell, Elizabeth Rohatyn, Marshall Rose, Chairmen Emeriti Paul LeClerc, President
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and benefactor, Irene Diamond. In 1998, she told Foundation News & Commentary, ''I'll be involved with both AIDS and human rights as long as I'm around,'' a promise she kept faithfully. In addition to her many generous contributions to amFAR, we salute her support of pioneering AIDS research through the Aaron Diamond Foundation and the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center. Mrs. Diamond also courageously advocated a comprehensive HIV prevention strategy that encompasses access to sterile syringes and made an early challenge grant that enabled amFAR to support and evaluate syringe exchange programs in New York and other cities nationwide. Her vision and compassion will be sorely missed. Mathilde Krim, Ph.D., Chairman of the Board Jerome J. Radwin, CEO
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Perlman Music Program is deeply saddened by the death of Irene Diamond. Irene Diamond has been a continuing inspiration to us. Through the years, we have cherished her friendship, her counsel, her support. We reveled in her stories, her good humor, her appreciation for beautiful music, kind people and the nurturing of talent. We respected always her wisdom and her drive to assist those in need. We admired her for the causes in which she sought not only to assist through funding, but also her unending efforts to discover where the roots of problems were and how these were best addressed to reach effective solutions. Irene Diamond will always remain to us a treasure and a model of what a person with sensitivity, intelligence and a consuming interest in the betterment of our world can be. Itzhak and Toby Perlman Board of Director, staff and and student of The Perlman Music Program
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Board of Directors, musicians, and staff of the New York Philharmonic deeply mourn the passing of our benefactor and friend Irene Diamond. Throughout its 160-year history, this orchestra has had many supporters, but few as generous and as enthusiastic as Irene Diamond. Mrs. Diamond was deeply concerned with helping to ensure the future of the arts in America. Most recently, she established a fund at the Philharmonic to make possible the debuts of promising American conductors. Mrs. Diamond's legacy as a patron of the arts will long be remembered and appreciated. We are proud to have known her and will miss her friendship and warm presence at our concerts. Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Lorin Maazel, Music Director Zarin Mehta, Exec. Director Members of the Orchestra and Staff
        DIAMOND-Irene. The musicians, Board of Directors, and staff of The Chamber Music Society mourn the great loss of our dear friend and patron Irene Diamond. Irene's tremendous love of the arts, her unshakeable devotion to them, and her desire to see them flourish were altogether an inspiration, to artists and audiences alike. Her committed dedication to our organization made possible a truly remarkable array of growth and advancement that otherwise might have gone unrealized. Despite the sad shadow of her passing, we will remain brightly illuminated by the nobility and generosity of her spirit. She will be greatly missed. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center Donaldson Pillsbury, Chairman Peter Frelinghuysen, President David Shifrin, Artistic Director
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of Irene Diamond, an extraordinary benefactor and supporter of our School and of many other institutions and people working in the arts, healthcare, and education. With beauty, determination, creativity, wisdom, and wit, Irene made our world a better place. Her achievements stand as a model for those who strive to realize a life well-lived. Irene's legacy will lastingly enrich us, and she will forever hold a special place in our hearts. Our condolences go to her daughter, Jean, and to her two grandsons. The date for a memorial celebration at The Juilliard School will be announced shortly. Bruce Kovner, Chairman Mary Rodgers Guettel, Chair Emerita June Noble Larkin, Chair Emerita Joseph W. Polisi, President
        DIAMOND-Irene. She was a woman who saw the frailties of our world and used all the resources at her command to improve it. She set about to cure AIDS, to control firearms, to defend human rights, and to encourage artists. She was courageous and willing to support unpopular causes when conviction moved her. For New York City Ballet, she was a champion who will forever be remembered for her founding of the New York Choreographic Institute and The Diamond Project. Both initiatives showed her generosity toward dancers and choreographers, underscoring her implicit belief that artistic vitality is essential to life. She was also our dear friend, and we will miss her. Peter Martins Board of Directors The Dancers, Musicians and Staff of New York City Ballet
        DIAMOND - Irene. The Trustees and staff of Thirteen/WNET New York mourn the loss of Irene Diamond, whose long-standing support of the arts on public television, especially the series ''Great Performances'', leaves a lasting cultural legacy. We will all miss the humor, intelligence, independent spirit, and committed involvement that made her a pioneering philanthropist-one woman who made a difference in so many lives. We send our deepest sympathies to the entire Diamond family. William F. Baker, President Jac Venza, Exec. Producer, ''Great Performances'' and Director, Culture and Arts Programs
        DIAMOND-Irene. New York City Opera mourns the death of our dear friend and benefactor Irene Diamond. Her visionary leadership and passionate commitment to causes in healthcare, social services, human rights and the arts will endure through the work of the countless individuals and organizations she encouraged and supported. We will remember her unparalleled generosity, extraordinary regard for young artists, genuine enthusiasm for artistic innovation and great love of music. She will be greatly missed. Paul Kellogg The Board of Directors New York City Opera
        DIAMOND-Irene. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend and member of the Board of Young Concert Artists for 25 years, who inspired us with her sparkling enjoyment of young artists, her joy in offering and abundance of support for what she believed in, and the generosity to humanity in all of her endeavors. She has made the world a better place. Her creative spirit will continue to guide us. Peter Marino, Chairman, The Board of Directors, Susan Wadsworth, Director, And the Administration, And Musicians of Young Concert Artists
        DIAMOND-Irene. Irene was a generous supporter and beloved member of the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation's family. Her generous spirit and tenacious vision had a major impact on the course of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, forever changed the HIV research landscape, and will continue to inspire our work as we help all children live longer and healthier lives. Her wisdom and compassion will be missed but never forgotten. The Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation
        DIAMOND-Irene. My colleagues and I mourn the loss of Irene. She was a great friend and so much more. She took an intense interest in endeavors of creativity, enlightenment and healing. Her sincere interest in the lives and happiness of so many artists and scientists has made it possible for them to have the greatest possible impact on society. Irene Diamond has done more to make the world a better place than anyone I have ever known. David Shifrin
      