
        SWARTZBACK - Raymond H., Rev., D.D. Pastor Emeritus First Presbyterian Church, Jamaica, New York. Raymond H. Swartzback, 79, an urban pastor who was a champion for social justice and was active in the struggle for civil rights died December 14, 2002, after a brief illness. He was a man who loved Jesus, ''the man'', and genuinely loved people, preaching, and listening to other people's stories. Ray set about to make friends of his neighbors. In this he was aided and abetted by a rare and genuine ability to practice Christian love. ''When God says, 'love thy neighbor,' he means for us to love him no matter who or what he is. The whole Christian message becomes irrelevant unless we put into action these beliefs, we say with our lips.'' Ray was one of the first leaders of Urban Ministry. In 1975 he accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church, Jamaica, Queens, the oldest continuously worshiping Presbyterian congregation in the country. Prior to 1975 the membership of this church was 1500, but ''white flight'' had reduced the membership to 89 people. There was talk of Relocation, Abandonment, Sell-Out; however, that small band of members said, ''We will not be moved,'' and they opened their doors to the new immigrants who were moving into Jamaica, Queens. Today First Church Jamaica has a membership of over 800 from 33 birth nations. At the 333'rd Anniversary and Sanctuary Rededication in 1996 Ray counseled the congregation , ''Do not adopt a Sanctuary mentality. Do not allow this beautiful Sanctuary to become a place to play church, a soul gymnasium to practice spiritual exercises, but let it be a fueling station for involvement in the world out there.'' Mr. Swartzback was born in Baltimore, MD to John and Florence Swartzback. He graduated from City College, Baltimore, Maryville College, Maryville, TN, and McCormick Theological Seminary, Chicago, IL. Upon graduation from seminary in 1950 he was drawn to the churches of the inner-city. His first parish was a two-point mission field in Cincinnati, Ohio. In 1956 he went to Calvary Presbyterian Church, Detroit, MI, a struggling congregation in a changing neighborhood. Here he trained eleven seminary graduate interns for work in urban ministry. Later he copastored Glenville Presbyterian Church in Cleveland, OH before going to Jamaica. During the Viet-Nam War years, he accepted a call to Westminster Presbyterian Church on the College of Wooster campus, where he extended his ministry to counseling students during those turbulent years. During WW II Ray served in Europe from 1942 to 1945 as a platoon leader of the 30th Division, 117 Infantry, where he received a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart. Ray received honorary Doctor of Divinity degrees from Alma College, Alma MI, and The College of Wooster, Wooster, OH. He taught New Testament Literature at the University of Cincinnati, and for eleven years was a lecturer at the Presbyterian Institute on Industrial Relations at McCormick Seminary in Chicago. He has been identified with many ministerial, labor, and civic organizations. He is survived by his devoted wife Jane Hays Swartzback of 55 years, and three daughters Linda Pratt (Jeff) of Millersburg, OH; Carol Kirk (John) of New Marshfield; and Susan Quinones of Athens, and nine grandchildren. A scholarship fund in his name has been established at McCormick Theological Seminary, 555 S. Woodlawn, Chicago IL. The Celebration of his life will be held on January 11 at 4:00 p.m. at the First Presbyterian Church in Athens, Ohio. The Session and congregation of First Presbyterian Church in Jamaica thanks this fearless leader for his outstanding service to the church of Jesus Christ.
      