
        LEFF-Eleanor (nee Wiesen). Died at home on January 3, 2003 at the age of 94. Beloved wife of the late Carl, adored mother of Marjorie Miller and Maxine Myers; motherin-law of Morgan Miller; devoted sister of the late Lillian Leff, Seymour, Irving and Sherman Wiesen; sister-inlaw of Mae, Tobie and Shirley Wiesen; cherished grandmother of Betsy, Bob, Amy and Cindy Miller, and Mark Asher and Baruch Myers; great-grandmother of Jessica, Lindsay, Max and Mathieu Miller, David Sucherman, Shirah, Ranana, Hillel, Hanoniah, Israel, Sara Meir and Sora, Chaya, Sheina, Menachem, Schmuel, Sholem, Bat Sheva and Yosef Myers. Until her illness, she was a dedicated and resourceful leader with a marvelous capacity for optimism and fun. She was the president of the ''Junior Committee'' and board member of the NY section of the National Council of Jewish Women. She was a tireless fundraiser for the Jewish causes in which she believed and her efforts for Council and UJA/Federation were extraordinary. Her indomitable spirit and concern for those less fortunate was an integral part of her life. She was a truly spiritual and moral human being who believed and never lost her faith in God. She leaves her family and the world with a wonderful legacy. We will remember her for her devotion and generosity of spirit. We will miss her enthusiasm and critical eye. We will think of her and love her forever. May she rest in peace. Funeral Services were held Sunday January 5, 2003, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.
        LEFF-Eleanor. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Eleanor Leff, a cherished friend who expressed an unwavering commitment to Jewish and Humanitarian causes. With her late husband Carl, who was a beloved leader of UJA-Federation and a founder of the United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York, Mrs. Leff earned enormous admiration and respect for her extraordinary generosity and compassionate concern. Among her many contributions to UJA-Federation, she will be remembered for her dedicated efforts on behalf of our Women's Campaign. The Leff legacy lives on through the continuing efforts of the Leff's daughter Marjorie Miller. Mrs. Miller shares her family's dedication to improving the lives of those less fortunate through her exceptional commitment to UJA Federation. We mourn the loss of a dear friend, and extend our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Miller and her husband Morgan; to Mrs. Leff's daughter Maxine Myers; to her grandchildren, Betsy, Bob, Amy, Cindy, Mark and Baruch; to her great-grandchildren; and to the entire Leff family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay Exec VP & CEO Joan Ginsburg Women's Campaign Chair
        LEFF-Ellie. The Board and members of NCJW NY Section mourn the loss of our beloved honorary Board member. Ellie personified the mission of NCJW; she was the leader of the celebrated Junior Committee and devoted to the New York Section and its projects. In recognition of her many years of community service, Ellie received many honors including the Hannah G. Solomon Award and Lifetime Achievement Award. Ellie and her husband Carl were stalwart supporters of Israel. Ellie also maintained a lifelong interest in Jewish learning and study. The Eleanor Leff Jewish Women's Resource Center named in her honor will stand as a monument to this inspiring woman. We grieve with her daughters and the entire family. Her memory will truly be for a blessing. Rita Fishman, President Judith R. Golub, Exec. Dir.
      