
        SKINNER-Dr. David B. January 24, 2003. Beloved husband of Ellie. Cherished father of Linda and her husband David Callans, Kristin, Carise and her husband Roger Rowley and Margaret. Devoted grandfather of Christopher, Lauren, Anra and Ian. Loving brother of Donald and his wife Shirley and their family. He was President Emeritus of the New York-Presbyterian Hospital and Professor of Surgery at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University. A surgeon, scientist and a leader who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, 7-9 PM, and Tuesday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the David B. and May T. Skinner Foundation, 79 East 79th St, NYC 10021.
        SKINNER-David B. The Boards, Physicians and Staff of the NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital are profoundly saddened and mourn the passing of our beloved friend and esteemed colleague, David B. Skinner, President Emeritus of NewYork - Presbyterian Hospital and NewYork-Presbyterian Healthcare System. A nationally renowned surgeon and educator, and a man of unique strength and uncommon vision, Dr. Skinner was one of the principle architects of the healthcare landscape in New York, as well as nationally and internationally. As a healthcare leader, his accomplishments were unparalleled. In 1987 he was named President and CEO of The New York Hospital, and assembled a leadership team that successfully engineered a financial turnaround for the hospital at a time when many hospitals were beset with significant operating deficits. Having placed the Hospital on firm financial footing, he went on from there to oversee the building of the Greenberg Pavilion, which was the linchpin of the Hospital's Major Modernization Program that helped prepare it to meet the healthcare needs of the 21st century. He simultaneously implemented his vision to create a network of healthcare facilities, including hospitals, nursing homes and ambulatory care sites organized to provide seamless and high quality care to patients in the metropolitan area. He also forged affiliations with hospitals abroad. Continuing to set the standard in healthcare leadership and futurist thinking, in 1998, he successfully oversaw the merger of two of the oldest and most renowned hospitals in the country, The New York Hospital and The Presbyterian Hospital to form the NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital. Dr. Skinner's commitment to the highest quality healthcare, his compassion and his integrity are unmatched. He was a giant in medicine and brought together magnificantly outstanding qualities of leadership with impeccable personal qualities of warmth, friendship and concern for others. He was loved by all of our physicians, employees, staff and leadership. We will all greatly miss him. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Ellie, and to his daughters, Linda, Kristin, Carise and Margaret, and to the entire family. John J. Mack Chairman of the Board Frank A. Bennack Jr. Charlotte Ford Peter A. Georgescu Jerry I. Speyer Vice Chairs Herbert Pardes President and CEO
      