
        LEIBMAN-Theodore, M.D., FACOG, died in Englewood at age 64. Dr. Leibman, an obstetrician/gynecologist, will be missed by family and friends. A man larger than life itself, Dr. Leibman was dedicated to humankind and was instilled with empathy for all who touched his life. A native of South Africa, he emigrated after completing medical school at the University of Pretoria where he was an avid squash player. He saw an ad in the Lancet medical journal and took a oneyear position in New Jersey's Englewood Hospital. He met and fell in love with Felicia Lipchez of New York City. They were married that summer in Englewood. Theodore and Felicia Leibman returned to South Africa and settled in Klerksdorp where he maintained a general practice. The United States beckoned and they returned to New York City a few years later. His three brothers soon followed and settled in the Houston area. Dr. Leibman completed a residency in OBGYN at Albert Einstein College of Medicine. He practiced on the faculty at that institution, but gravitated back to Englewood Hospital, where he practiced for many years. Dr. Leibman's son Michael joined his practice in 1999 and they worked together until his retirement in February of 2002. Dr. Leibman delivered thousands of children, and in many instances, the children of those children. One of his most gratifying experiences was volunteering his medical skills through the Indian Health Services. He served the Native American populations in Arizona and New Mexico. His interests included fishing and boating as well as collecting decoys, sculpture and Native American art. He was a longtime subscriber to the ballet and opera and enjoyed Broadway theater. His second home was Chamberlain, Maine, which always reminded him of the shores of Capetown, South Africa. A world traveler, he had recently completed trips to Antarctica, Portugal, fishing in Guatemala as well as the game reserves of his native South Africa. He is survived by his wife Felicia, three sons, Dr. Michael, Peter and Marc, three brothers, and daughters-in-law, and nine nieces and nephews. For more information contact Wien & Wien Memorial Chapel 201-489-6125
        LEIBMAN-Theodore, M.D. You will be greatly missed. You will live on in our hearts. Rest in peace dear friend. The Gernegliaro Family
      