
        DIAMOND - Irene. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and The Mount Sinai Hospital mourn the passing of Irene Diamond. A generous and visionary philanthropist, Irene Diamond was an outstanding supporter of programs on AIDS education, prevention and treatment. Mount Sinai also has been a beneficiary of Irene Diamond's generous support for immunology, influenza, and numerous important research programs. She will be missed. Peter W. May, Chairman of the Board The Mount Sinai Medical Center Kenneth I. Berns, M.D., Ph.D. President and Chief Executive Officer, Mount Sinai Medical Center Larry H. Hollier, M.D., President The Mount Sinai Hospital Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., Mount Sinai School of Medicine
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of Irene Diamond, an extraordinary benefactor and supporter of our School and of many other institutions and people working in the arts, healthcare, and education. With beauty, determination, creativity, wisdom, and wit, Irene made our world a better place. Her achievements stand as a model for those who strive to realize a life well-lived. Irene's legacy will lastingly enrich us, and she will forever hold a special place in our hearts. Our condolences go to her daughter, Jean, and to her two grandsons. The date for a memorial celebration at The Juilliard School will be announced shortly. Bruce Kovner, Chairman Mary Rodgers Guettel, Chair Emerita June Noble Larkin, Chair Emerita Joseph W. Polisi, President
        DIAMOND-Irene. It is with great sorrow that the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the death of Irene Diamond, an Academy Fellow and benefactor. Mrs. Diamond's extraordinary generosity places her among the century's most important philanthropists. Her personal engagement in the causes she supported was emblematic of an abiding interest in artistic excellence, AIDS research, and human rights. The Academy extends its condolences to her daughter, Jane Diamond Sargent, her extended family, and all who continue to benefit from Mrs. Diamond's creativity and vision. President Patricia Meyer Spacks Vice President Louis Cabot Secretary Emilio Bizzi Treasurer Peter Lynch Executive Officer Leslie Berlowitz
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Board and staff of the Correctional Association of New York mourn the passing of Irene Diamond, a strong supporter of our work and recipient of the organization's first 1844 Medal Award. A great citizen and philanthropist, she had wit, guts, intelligence and vision. We will remember with deep admiration her generosity and her leadership in recognizing the humanity and worth of her fellow New Yorkers in greatest need. James Silbert, Chair Robert Gangi, E.D.
        DIAMOND-Irene. The Board and staff of TAG, the Treatment Action Group, mourn the passing of Irene Diamond, a generous visionary who remained passionately committed to the fight against AIDS. Mark Harrington, Exec Dir
      