
        KLEINMAN-Virginia (Ginny) on February 5, 2002 of Roslyn, NY. Having never given up, Ginny lost her brief yet valiant battle against the effects of liver cancer. Always giving of herself selflessly towards others, she had a way about her that made everyone she came in contact with happy to be with her. Her smile and personality would light up any room she was in. Her inner strength and determination throughout her ordeal was to be admired. She loved people, especially her boys, Jared and Evan, her family and friends. We are all grateful for the time we were able to have with this wonderful person, we just wanted a little bit more. All who knew Ginny should only have wonderful memories of a person whose natural beauty was matched by her inner goodness. Loving wife of Richard. Cherished mother of Jared and Evan. Daughter of Caesar and Carolyn Bonis. Sister to Cathy Pearson, Margie Anderson, Carolyn Levitan and Chuck Bonis. Also survived by 7 nieces and nephews. Funeral Mass Thursday 1:00 PM at St. Marys RC Church Manhasset. Interment private. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America, Inc, 585 Stewart Ave, Suite 414, Garden City, NY 11530, or Tourette Syndrome Association, Inc., 42-40 Bell Blvd, Bayside, NY 11361.
        KLEINMAN - Ginny. The Long Island Chapter of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America acknowledges with sorrow the passing of Ginny Kleinman, beloved wife of Richard Kleinman, Chapter President, loving mother of Jared and Evan. Valued volunteer of the Chapter, Ginny brought grace, beauty, compassion, commitment and excellence to her endeavors on behalf of the CCFA family. She was a dear friend to staff and volunteers, sharing her great sense of style, good humor and creativity. Our hearts go out to the entire Kleinman and Bonis families. The Board of Trustees CCFA, Long Island Chapter Edda Ramsdell, Executive Director
        KLEINMAN-Ginny. It is with great despair that we extend our condolences to Richard, Jared and Evan Kleinman upon the untimely death of their beloved wife and mother. Our hearts also go out to the entire Kleinman and Bonis families at this tragic time. Ginny radiated joy to those lucky enough to be in her presence. We will miss her and remember her always. Ruth Koeppel Lynne and Caleb Koeppel Lesley and David Koeppel Sarah and Bob Cohn
        KLEINMAN - Ginny. Our deepest thoughts and prayers are with Richard, Jared, Evan and the entire family. We celebrate the life of our dear friend. We will always remember Ginny's smile, her warmth and her zest for life. Amy, Billy, Adam, Michael
        KLEINMAN-Ginny. The day breaks not, it is our heart. Alex, Zack and Ross will miss Aunt Ginny. Her star will always shine for us. Helen and Steven
      