
        DOUGLAS-Percy S. The Board of Overseers and Overseers Emeriti of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center note with great sorrow the sudden passing of our friend and colleague Percy S. Douglas. Always conveying his strong interest in our programs, we will miss his enthusiastic support of our mission. We extend our most sincere condolences to his family. Laurance S. Rockefeller Honorary Co-Chairman James D. Robinson III Honorary Co-Chairman Douglas A. Warner III Chairman Richard I. Beattie Vice Chairman Louis V. Gerstner, Jr. Vice Chairman Harold E. Varmus President Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        DOUGLAS-Percy S. The Board of Directors, staff and youth of Friends of Island Academy, serving incarcerated youth, mourn the enormous loss of one of our founders, past board president and treasurer. Percy treated all, great and small, rich and poor, with a rare and refreshing form of respect, optimism, and humor. His work will continue to impact every youth who walks through our door. Thank you, Percy, for being our friend. Joel Bross, Board Chair. Beth Navon, Exec. Director Clinton Lacey, Assoc. Dir.
        DOUGLAS-Percy S. The Principals, Officers and Management Team of Brown Harris Stevens Residential Management, LLC. note with regret the death of Mr. Percy S. Douglas, whose leadership qualities, warm personality and overall effectiveness as a Director and President of 550 Park Avenue Corporation will be sorely missed. Roger W. Tuckerman, President Karel de Boer, Account Executive
        DOUGLAS-Percy S. The Directors and Shareholders of 550 Park Avenue Corporation mourn the death of Mr. Percy S. Douglas, who served on the building's Board of Directors for more than ten years, most recently as President of the Corporation, and extend their heartfelt condolences to his daughter Laura Peterson, his sister Kitty Brady and their respective families. Board of Directors 550 Park Avenue Corporation
        DOUGLAS - Percy. The Board of Directors and members of the Broadway Association mourn the passing of our colleague Percy S. Douglas. He was a true gentleman, sportsman and active member of many civic associations in the City of New York. We will all miss his charm and robust sense of humor. Richard A. Basini, President The Broadway Association
        DOUGLAS-Percy. New Producers Organization (NPO) mourn the untimely passing of our beloved partner, Percy Douglas. He was a life force in our theatrical producing endeavors. Ever the incandescent spririt whose shining light will never go out. We will miss him deeply. A. Joseph Tandet Joseph Pianpiano
      