
        COLMAN - Neville, M.D., Ph.D. The Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) and St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center (SLRHC) families join with the leadership of their parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with deep sadness the passing of our dear friend and beloved colleague, Neville Colman, M.D., Ph.D, Chairman of Diagnostic Pathology and Laboratory Medicine. An international leader in pathologic medicine, Dr. Colman dedicated his life to the clinical advancement of his field, the expansion of its applications in research, and the education of tomorrow's physicians. His tireless efforts to bring greater synergy and sharing of services between our institutions, including advancing the burgeoning field of robotic pathologic testing, will forever stand as his legacy. He was a kind and gentlemanly individual who will be greatly missed by everyone who knew and worked with him. To his wife, Dr. Glenys Lobban, his children Jessica and Stephen, the entire Colman family and all of his loved ones, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Boards of Trustees, Continuum, BIMC and SLRHC Gail F. Donovan, Interim President/CEO, Continuum Richard F. Daines, M.D., President and CEO, SLRHC Thomas Killip, M.D., Interim President and CEO, BIMC William Winkler, M.D., President, Medical Board, SLRHC Donald Kastenbaum, M.D., President, Medical Board, BIMC Bruce Wenig, M.D., Interim Chair, Diagnotic Pathology & Laboratory Medicine, BIMC & SLRHC Bernadine Flezjor, Admin. Director, Diagnostic Pathology & Laboratory Medicine, BIMC & SLRHC Robert L. Salant, M.D., President, Doctors Alumni Assoc, BIMC
        COLMAN - Neville, M.D., Ph.D. 57, passed peacefully following a tenacious struggle with cancer. Chair of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine for New York's Continuum Health Partners, his early research in South Africa continues to assure the healthy pregnancy of countless millions through the B-vitamin folate fortification of cereals. Activist for human rights. Founder of the West Side Soccer League. Beloved husband of Glenys, father of Stephen and Jessica, son of Pearl and the late Harry, sonin-law of Day and the late Archie Lobban, brother/brother-in-law of Martin and Elinor, Robin and Clare, Shelley and Tony Seiler, uncle of Laurence, Howard, Paula, Ryan and Olivia, Catherine, Sean, Jenna and Mya, Nikki and Greg Seiler, and dear friend of many. His boundless energy, inimitable sense of humor, and the momentum of his personality will be sorely missed. In lieu of flowers donations to Doctors Without Borders (for AIDS Project in Africa), PO Box 1856, Merifield, VA 22116. Services Thursday, 10 AM, at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.
        COLMAN-Neville. Died February 11 after a valiant battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Glenys and loving and devoted father of Stephen and Jessica. You will always be in our hearts.
      