
        LIEBLICH-Daniel Parke, 85. Of Deal, NJ, passed away peacefully on February 11 in Palm Beach, FL. Born and raised in Paterson, NJ, grandson of a major silk manufacturer, he was a graduate of the Hun School, Princeton University '38, and Yale Law School. Co-founding the firm of Lieblich and Cole, he practiced corporate law in Paterson. In 1957, he established and was Chairman/CEO of a public hospitality corporation, which became Treadway Companies, retiring in 1983. He served on active duty for five years as a military officer during WWII, the last two with the 8th Air Force in England. He served an additional 15 years as commander of the 907th unit of the NJ Air Force Reserves, retiring as Colonel. Among his many charitable and civic board activities were Princeton University, The Hun School, Barnert Temple, and Monmouth Medical Center. He most recently served five years as President of The Princeton Club of NY. He is survived by his devoted daughters, Nancy Bracken Garson and Lynn Jeffery, his loving grandchildren, Genevieve Bracken Jaffe, Emily Bracken; Todd Daniel, Diana, and Carolyn Jeffery, and his two sisters, Selma Kramer and Ruth Davis. He was predeceased by his adored wife of 52 years, Mannette Neuman Lieblich. Funeral services at noon Sunday, February 16 at Barnert Temple, Franklin Lakes, NJ. Family will receive visitors Sunday 7-9 PM at home in Deal. Donations may be made to: The Lieblich Scholarship at Princeton University, Hospice at Monmouth Medical Center (Long Branch, NJ), The Barnert Temple.
        LIEBLICH-Daniel. The Board of Governors and members of the Elberon Bathing Club mourn the passing of our longtime member and dear friend, Daniel Lieblich. He was a consummate bridge player whose presence will be sorely missed at the bridge table and around the pool. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Robert Fagenson, President Jane Guadagno, Secretary
        LIEBLICH-Daniel. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Daniel Lieblich. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jerold L. Zaro, President Harvey L. York, Secretary
      