
        KEELER - Robert Temple, noted Ohio lawyer, philanthropist, corporate director and World War II Navy veteran, died on December 19, 2002 of complications from a stroke suffered at his country home in Dorset, Vermont. He was 88. Keeler was born in Cleveland on August 3, 1914, the day Germany declared war on France, invaded Russia, and ignited the First World War. A man of wry humor and acerbic wit, he sometimes described his birth as ''the second calamity of the day.'' Keeler graduated Magna cum Laude and Phi Beta Kappa from Dartmouth in 1936, and earned his LL.B from Yale in 1939. He soon joined the Cincinnati law firm of Taft, Stettinius & Hollister, founded by Robert Alphonso Taft, eldest son of William Howard Taft, 27th President and 10th Chief Justice of the United States. Later a U.S. senator, conservative Republican icon, and contender for the presidency, Robert Taft became a mentor and friend to his brilliant young associate. In 1942, Keeler enlisted in the Navy as an ensign and after 2-1/2 years in the Pacific and the Aleutians was discharged as a lieutenant (j.g.). He was made a partner at T.S.& H. in 1953, and gained renown as a trial and an appellate court lawyer during his 43 years with the firm. A scion of the Temple family of east Texas, Keeler also worked with his first cousin, Arthur Temple, Jr., to build the timber business developed to 7,000 acres by their grandfather, Thomas Louis Latane Temple, into the halfmillion-acre East Texas Pulp & Paper Company, which became a principal supplier to Time Inc. When the media conglomerate merged with Eastex in 1973, Keeler and his cousin joined Time Inc.'s board of directors, resigning ten years later in vehement protest of Time's merger with Warner Brothers. Keeler was married twice, first to Florence Field Mithoefer of Cincinnati in 1940, with whom he had five children. After his divorce in 1975, he wed Margaret Palmer Mithoefer of Dorset, Vermont. In addition to his widow, Keeler is survived by his sister Virginia of Green Lake, WI, his cousin Arthur Temple Jr. of Diboll. TX, and by four children, all of California-David, of Slovang; Tanny Keeler-Hodgetts of Santa Barbara; Alison Keeler Carrillo of Santa Cruz; and Melissa Keeler Morris of Santa Barbara. In 1982 Keeler retired from the Taft firm and concentrated on his interest in travel and the arts. He was elected to the Board of Directors of the Cincinnati Art Museum, and with his wife Margaret, endowed part of the renovation of Cincinnati's historic waterfront, as well as the Mary R. Drury Chair of History at the Seven Hills School; he gave the John Whitman Keeler Memorial Theater to the Cincinnati Country Day School in honor of his younger son who had predeceased him in 1993; and he renovated and endowed the golf course at Dartmouth College. Although he and his wife maintained a river-view condominium in Cincinnati, his ''box seat on the Ohio'', they spent most of his later years at their home in Vermont, where Keeler continued his avid enthusiasm for golf well into his 86th year. A memorial service will be on March 7th at 3PM at the Christ Church in Cincinnati, Ohio. Gifts may be made to the Seven Hills School of Cincinnati and the Cincinnati Art Museum.
      