
        KREINDLER-Lee S. Distinguished trial and appellate lawyer, the Senior Partner of the Law Firm Kreindler & Kreindler, that he and his father, Harry Kreindler foundeded in 1952. Beloved and dedicated husband of his adoring wife Ruth, revered father of James P. Kreindler and Laurie Kreindler and father-in-law of Dr. Lidia Pousada and Tom Laster, adored grandfather of Katie, Sara, Jason, Anna, Jamie, Abbie and Victoria, and loving brother of Rosamand Koffman. Funeral services to be held Thursday, February 20, at 2 P.M. at Temple Beth El, 220 South Bedford Road, Chappaqua, New York.
        KREINDLER-Lee S. The partners, attorneys and staff of Kreindler & Kreindler deeply mourn the death of our esteemed founder and Senior Partner, Lee Kreindler. For more than half a century, Lee Kreindler led and guided the law firm that he and his father Harry Kreindler founded in 1950 to advance the rights of victims of accidents and which soon became the leading plaintiffs' firm in the area of aviation accident law. Lee led the firm with ingenuity, steely determination both to modernize the legal rules applicable to wrongful death and aviation accident and solve the causes of plane crashes to promote safety, excellence in the court room, and compassion for his clients. He did all this while maintaining the highest ethical standards. With relentless advocacy and skillful arguments, he became a cataclysmic force in reforming the rules and laws applicable to aviation disasters at the international, national, and state levels, and in the rules of ethics governing lawyers. We at Kreindler & Kreindler have been blessed to have been mentored and guided by a great and humble teacher, advocate, friend and leader. We are forever greatful for Lee's vision of what a victim's advocate should be and for his making that vision a reality during every day of his fifty-four year illustrious career. Kreindler & Kreindler pledges to adhere to and continue Lee's high standards of legal excellence, ethical integrity and compassion for others. Our deepest sympathies go to Lee's cherished wife and partner in life, Ruth, to his loving and beloved children, Jim, our partner, and Laurie, his daughter and to his seven grandchildren, in whom he took enormous pride. Marc S. Moller Steven R. Pounian David C. Cook David Beekman Blanca I. Rodriguez Noah H. Kushlefsky Robert J. Spragg Brian J. Alexander Justin T. Green Partners of Kreindler & Kreindler
        KREINDLER-Lee S. We are deeply grieved because our dearest and irreplaceable friend was summoned to eternity on February 18, 2003 after a short and devastating illness. We also send our deepest sympathies to his wife, Ruth, and children, James and Laurie, in addition to his grandchildren, Kathy, Jamie, Jason, Abbie and Victoria. Included in our sorrow are Tom Laster, his son-inlaw, and Lydia Pousada, his daughter - in - law. Lee changed and improved the world by making flying safer and more comfortable for all the passengers and their families. His creative abilities and sensitivities to their plights called attention in the most realistic terms the great necessity for safety from those who flew and serviced them and those who built them. We shall miss him and so will his many other friends, colleagues and public which he served so ably and well. In short, Lee Kreindler ''Was the Noblest of them all''. Anna and Menard Gertler and children, Stephanie and Jonathan
        KREINDLER-Lee. Temple Beth El of Northern Westchester mourns the passing of Lee Kreindler, our long time and beloved member, and a builder of our congregation. To his loved ones we extend our deepest sympathy. Joshua M. Davidson, Rabbi Stephen J. Adler, President
        KREINDLER-Lee S. The firm of Cobert & Schwartz CPA's note with great sorrow the death of Lee S. Kreindler whose passing will be mourned by all who knew him. Isaac Rabinowicz Franklin Schwartz
        KREINDLER-Lee S. A humble, unpretentious man, a very special good friend. Beverly & Joseph Shechtman
      