
        BERG-Seymour, M.D. 4/3/2110/12/02. Seymour Berg, M.D. died on October 12, 2002 at Grosvenor Park Nursing Home in Salem, MA, after a long illness. He was born on April 3, 1921 in the Bronx, to Gustave Berg and Anna Levine Berg. He graduated in 1937 from DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, received a B.A. from N.Y.U. College of Arts and Science in 1941, and obtained a medical degree from N.Y.U. School of Medicine in 1945. After an internship at City Hospital on Welfare Island, he served as 1st Lieutenant and then Captain in the Army Medical Corps AUS, at the V.A. Hospital in Sheridan, WY, where he met his future wife of 33 years, Margaret Irene (Peggy) Walden. Dr. Berg did his residency in psychiatry at Bellevue Psychiatric Hospital, and remained on staff there for over 30 years, ultimately serving as Psychiatric Unit Chief of Ward No. 6 for many years. During that time, he also taught at the N.Y.U. School of Medicine and Hunter College-Bellevue School of Nursing, and maintained a part-time private practice. Dr. Berg served as Honorary Surgeon in Psychiatry to the New York City Police Department and Consulting Psychiatrist to the Triboro Bridge & Tunnel Authority and The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Dr. Berg was a member of the American, New York and Massachusetts Medical Associations, a member and Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association, a member of the Association for Research in Nervous and Mental Disease and the Society of Biological Psychiatry, and a Diplomate Member and Member of the Council of the Section on Psychiatry & Neurology of the Pan American Medical Association. He also served on the editorial board of the medical journal ''Behavioral Neuropsychiatry''. Dr. Berg was most proud of his teaching and his early research on electroshock therapy. Dr. Berg and his wife Peggy raised their four children in Lake Success, New York, where they lived for 28 years. Peggy predeceased him in 1981; he was later married for several years to Florence Preschel. He was an avid power boater, and was active for many years in the Sands Point Yacht Club (serving as Commodore in 1975), and the Bayshore Power Squadron. Dr. Berg is survived by his daughters Deborah Berg of Seattle, WA, Sherry Berg of Newburyport, MA, Mary Moreau of Waterbury, CT, his son G. David Walden-Berg of Oakland, CA, his brother Sheldon (Buddy) Berg of Northvale, NJ, grandchildren Tyler Fey, Cooper Neal, Hannah Moreau and Esther Moreau, nieces Eileen Berg and nephews Gary Berg, Gerald Berg and Jeffrey Berg. A private service was held and, at his request, his ashes will be strewn in the Long Island Sound. The family requests that any memorial donations be made to the N.Y.U. School of Medicine Office of Development, specifying that the funds be used for research relating to strokes or dementia.
      