
        LEAHEY-Michael I., 46. Of Irvington, NY, formerly of Nyack, NY, suddenly on January 30, 2003. Founder and Director of Clinical Trials at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, past Director of the Office of Cardiac Research at Columbia Presbyterian. Beloved husband of Lynn (nee Davey), loving father of James Patrick and Katherine Michaela. Beloved son of Edward B. Leahey Sr., MD and Mary (nee Carlin) Leahey. Beloved brother of Mimi Leahey Nangle, Anne Leahey, Frances Leahey, Patricia Meriam, the late Joseph Leahey and the late Edward B. Leahey Jr., MD. Cherished uncle of 15 nieces and nephews. Funeral services Monday 10 am, Church of St. Barnabas, N. Broadway, Irvington, NY. Visiting Saturday 7-9 PM & Sunday 2-4 and 7-9 PM, Edwards - Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Avenue, (Exit 17 Saw Mill) Dobbs Ferry, NY. Memorials to the Edward B. Leahey, Jr. Foundation, 156 Strawtown Road, West Nyack, New York 10994.
        LEAHEY-Michael I. The members of The Office of Clinical Trials at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center mourn the sudden and tragic passing of our Director Michael I. Leahey. He was a visionary leader who helped create the first centralized Office of Clinical Trials at an academic medical center over a decade ago. This was a uniquely successful joint venture between The New York Presbyterian Hospital and Columbia University. Its outstanding success is due in large measure to Michael's passion for the importance of clinical research and for his absolute insistance that clinical research be conducted with the highest ethical and scientific integerity. In addition, he possessed a remarkable business acumen that allowed him to build an extraordinarily successful enterprise in a very short period of time. Michael built the first and he built the best. The Office is considered a model nationally and internationally and its reputation reflects great credit on Michael and on The Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Visitors from virtually all of the major Academic Medical Centers in the U.S., came to New York to get a first hand tour of the Office Michael built and nurtured. He was generous to all, freely sharing his time and his ideas with anyone who asked. The Office has become the catalyst for the explosive growth of clinical research here over the past decade. Scores of clinical investigators on our campus obtained their first support for their research ideas from funds generated by the Office of Clinical Trials. He was a dedicated mentor to his coworkers and to the faculty and staff and he took great pride in the accomplishments of others. At the same time, Michael was a man of many other interests. He enjoyed life to the fullest. He was a published author and his third mystery novel was completed just before his untimely death. He was totally dedicated to his wife, Lynn and their two children, Jack and Kate. The Office of Clinical Trials Columbia University New York Presbyterian Hospital Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center
        LEAHEY - Michael. The boards, faculty, students and staff of Columbia University Health Sciences Division and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the tragic loss of our friend and colleague, Michael Leahey. Mike was the director of the Office of Clinical Trials at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, the only person to hold the position after being appointed in 1992. In addition, he oversaw the Clinical Trials Fund, a multi-million dollar fund that invests in the support of programs and projects related to clinical research activities. Mike first joined Columbia in the mid-1980's, serving as administrator for the Division of Cardiology and later as business manager for the Department of Medicine. He was a man of many talents, and published two novels, Broken Machines (2000) and The Pale Green Horse (2001). He recently completed a third novel, Back in the U.S.S.R., which has been submitted for publication. Mike brought a wealth of knowledge and experience to every position he held and the deep loss we feel at his passing is a testament to the mark he leaves on this institution. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Lynn, his children, Katie and Jack, his family and friends. Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D. Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine Columbia University Herbert Pardes, M.D. President and CEO NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        LEAHEY-Michael. The Department of Medicine of the Columbia University College of Physicans and Surgeons mourns the untimely death of Mr. Michael Leahey. A long time friend of the department, Mr. Leahey had brought brilliance, innovation, and dedication to develop a superior Clinical Trials Program. His remarkable successes were crucial to our academic endeavor and to the welfare of patients. We miss him as a friend and extend our sympathies to his family. Joseph Tenenbaum, MD Interim Chair, Department of Medicine Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons
      