
        SKEIST - Marian. Beloved wife of Merrill. Sister of Alvin (Lynn) Felman. Mother of Barry (Destiny), Loren (Marlene) and Lisa (Avi) Hadar and grandmother of Marc, David, Tal, Elan, Sarah, Tova and Benjamin. Funeral Sunday, February 2, 1:00 PM at Gutterman's Funeral Home, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, New York. Family will be sitting shiva Sunday at 158 Sagamore Drive, at the Hamlet at Old Oyster Bay, Plainview. Monday through Thursday services will be held at 3 Magnolia Lane, Woodbury.
        SKEIST-Marian. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Marian Skeist. Active in the Long Island Women's Campaign, she and her husband, Merrill, a founder of the Long Island Division, have been devoted friends of UJA-Federation for many years. Their generosity, leadership, and commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes will be felt for generations to come. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Merrill, and to his children, Lisa (and Avi) Hadar, Loren (and Marlene) Skeist, and Barry (and Destiny) Skeist, to his seven grandchildren, and to all family and friends who mourn Marian's loss. May her memory be a blessing. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        SKEIST-Marian. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of Marian Skeist, beloved wife of our esteemed Trustee, S. Merrill Skeist. Mrs. Skeist shared her husband's commitment to the Health System. They were major supporters of the Ann & Jules Gottlieb Women's Comprehensive Health Center and she was an active member of the Partners in Women's Health Committee. Our heartfelt condolences to her family and friends. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman Michael J. Dowling President & CEO North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        SKEIST-Marian. We have lost a dear friend, an outstanding, caring, sensitive, extremely capable and philanthropic lady. We will remember your participation in the many causes we shared, including Long Island Jewish Hospital, UJA, ADL, The Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center, and so many others. Our deepest sympathy to Merrill and the entire family. We loved you, Phyllis and Joseph Gurwin
        SKEIST-Marian. We mourn the loss of Marian, devoted wife, mother, grandmother and friend. She was a vital and vibrant person talented in many areas. We will miss her. Our sympathy is with Merrill and the family at this sorrowful time. Jerry and Bette Lorber
      