
        REYNOLDS-Warren J. Publisher emeritus of PARADE Magazine, Died February 10, 2003, after a short illness, in Sarasota, FL. During his 36 years at PARADE, Reynolds was instrumental in building PARADE into the widest circulated weekly magazine in the world. Reynolds was born in Chicago in 1918 to Bradford Jay Reynolds and Bessie (BonDurant) Reynolds. He was graduated from DePauw University in Indiana in 1939, where he was a Rector Scholar. Reynolds attained the rank of lieutenant commander in the United States Navy and served in World War II as a communications officer in the Pacific. After working for Capper Publications, Inc. as a sales representative, Reynolds joined PARADE Magazine, where he became the advertising sales manager in the Chicago office. In 1960, Reynolds moved to New York City and became publisher of PARADE in 1967 until his retirement in 1983. In 1940, Reynolds married Mary Ellen Seaman of Milwaukee, WI. They were married for 55 years until Mrs. Reynolds' death while on a cruise in the Mediterranean in 1995. Reynolds is predeceased by his daughter, Linda E. Reynolds. He is survived by his children, William B. (Ivonne) Reynolds of Orange, CA, Nancy R. Davis of Rensselaer, NY, David S. (Patricia) Reynolds of Naperville, IL; seven grandchildren and one great-grandchild. A memorial service will be held at the Venice Presbyterian Church, 111 Firenze Ave. E., Venice, FL, on February 21, 11:00 AM. Contributions may be sent to Prospect Child and Family Center, 133 Aviation Road, Queensbury, NY 12804, in lieu of flowers.
        REYNOLDS-Warren J. The staff of PARADE magazine mourns the loss of a dear friend and colleague. For nearly four decades (1947-1983), Warren Reynolds' vision and leadership saw PARADE through a period of unprecedented growth, which led to its position as America's most widely read weekly magazine. He began his career at PARADE as an advertising sales representative in Chicago and climbed steadily up the corporate ladder. He became PARADE's publisher in 1967 and served in that position until his retirement in 1983, when he became publisher emeritus. For his long and dedicated service, and for his lasting friendship, we will always be grateful. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Walter Anderson, Chairman
      