
        MULLOWNEY-Edward F., 59. Formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, died suddenly at his home in Palo Alto, CA on January 31, 2003. He was the beloved husband of 36 years of Carole May of Bayonne, NJ and the father of Laura Mullowney of Palo Alto and Alison Cole and her husband Michael of Fremont, CA. He is survived by sisters Anne Petchel, Mary Lee, Denise Bickford and brothers William Mullowney and Thomas Mullowney. Ed, a renowned patent attorney, was the senior intellectual property lawyer in the Menlo Park, CA. office of the New York based law firm of Shearman & Sterling. He was a member of the recently established Patent Arbitration Committee of the Center for Public Resources, which has been at the cutting edge of alternative resolution in the United States. He was also director of the Law Foundation of Silicon Valley, a leading public interest group in Northern California, and was recently named by his peers in the publication ''Best Lawyers in America.'' Previously a partner in the firm of Fish & Neave from 1971 to 2001, he was a lead partner in the trial team for Polaroid in its landmark $925 million victory over Eastman Kodak. Edward received both his undergraduate and Master's degrees in engineering from Stevens Institute in Hoboken, NJ and proudly served as a trustee for the college. He received his law degree from Columbia University in New York City. In lieu of flowers, a contribution would be gratefully accepted to establish an endowment for The Edward F. Mullowney Scholarship at Stevens Institute of Technology, C/O Mr. James N. Snyder, Office of Development, Castle Point on Hudson, Hoboken, NJ 07030. Memorial mass, St. Thomas Aquinas, Palo Alto, February 6, 2PM.
        MULLOWNEY-Edward F. The partners of Fish & Neave express their profound sorrow at the passing of their former partner Edward F. Mullowney, on January 31, 2003. Ed practiced law with us in New York City and opened our office in Palo Alto, California. We extend our condolences to Carole, Laura and Alison, and to Ed's friends and co-workers.
      