
        SLOATE - Elsie K. Died peacefully in Manhattan on February 18, 2003. Beloved wife of her late husband, Kalman, devoted mother of her daughter, Laura, and her sons, Martin and Alan, and of her daughters-in-law, Phyllis and Roxene. Cherished grandmother of Paul, Pamela, Kenneth and Jonathan and of her granddaughtersin-law, Amy and Patricia, and of her great grandchildren, Jordan, Samuel, Stacey and Elliott, and loved sister of Marcia. Her kindness and generosity touched many lives with love and she will remain in their hearts. As the guiding light of Fight for Sight of Manhattan, she raised countless funds for eye research at her legendary luncheons and other charitable functions. Her extraordinary spirit enriched many lives and she will be sorely missed. Donations in memorial may be made to the Elsie K. Sloate Fellowship Fund at New York Presbyterian Hospital, C/O Laura J. Sloate, 230 Park Ave, 7 Flr, NY, NY 10169. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St. & Amsterdam Ave, on Thursday, February 20 at 11:45 AM.
        SLOATE-Elsie K. The Board of Directors and staff of Fight for Sight, Inc. and the members of the Fight for Sight League of Manhattan are deeply saddened at the death of our Board Member and dear friend, Elsie Sloate. Elsie was a singular force in our organization from its very beginning. There was no honor that she did not receive, yet there was no way to honor her sufficiently. She took on large challenges gladly, without hesitation, and succeeded in all of them. Hundreds of people became involved and supported Fight for Sight because of Elsie's commitment to the cause over five decades. Her incomparable leadership as President and Chairman of the Fight for Sight Manhattan League and then as a member of the Board of Directors of Fight for Sight, Inc. was the reflection of her dedication, innate intelligence, wisdom, generosity of spirit and the universal respect and admiration she engendered. We will miss Elsie Sloate, but we were honored by, and grateful for the life she lived. We send heartfelt condolences to her beloved children and family: Laura Sloate, Martin and Roxene Sloate, Alan and Phyllis Sloate; grandchildren Jonathan, Pam, Kenneth and Paul, and her great-grandchildren. We know their lifelong devotion will bring the comfort of cherished memories of this very special woman. Kenneth R. Barasch, President Daniel Z. Nelson, Treasurer Eleanore Boren, President, Manhattan League Grace Fisher, Exec. Director
        SLOATE-Elsie K., 96, a model mother, friend and philanthropist, she passed peacefully on February 18. She was there for me throughout my life, particularly when I needed her most. A woman of boundless generosity to her family and far-reaching circle of friends. She left an indelible mark on those she touched with her gifts of spirit and kindness. She was a great philanthropist and a major force behind the Fight for Sight League of Manhattan for more than 35 years. My mother was blessed with a great life and I know that I will live my life in her spirit. In lieu of flowers a research fund has been established in her honor, The Elsie K. Sloate Fellowship Fund, New York Presbyterian Hospital. Your loving daugher, Laura
        SLOATE-Elsie K. Our lives were enriched the day we met you. You have blessed us with your friendship, zest for life, infinite wisdom and boundless generosity. You taught us the meaning of generosity through your example. We are privileged to have shared many memorable years together. Your loving friends, Donna, Maury, Michael and Ali Leone
        SLOATE-Elsie. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman J. Ezra Merkin, President
        SLOATE-Elsie. The Richard Tucker Music Foundation records with sorrow the passing of Elsie Sloate, cherished mother of our esteemed Board member Laura Sloate. Jeffrey S. Tabak, Chairman Barry Tucker, President
        SLOATE-Elsie K. She was a wonderful person. We extend heartfelt condolences to her daughter Laura, our dear friend, and to her family. Shari and Robert Thompson
      