
        SKEIST - Marian. Beloved wife of Merrill. Sister of Alvin (Lynn) Felman. Mother of Barry (Destiny), Loren (Marlene) and Lisa (Avi) Hadar and grandmother of Marc, David, Tal, Elan, Sarah, Tova and Benjamin. Funeral Sunday, February 2, 1:00 PM at Gutterman's Funeral Home, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, New York. Family will be sitting shiva Sunday at 158 Sagamore Drive, at the Hamlet at Old Oyster Bay, Plainview. Monday through Thursday services will be held at 3 Magnolia Lane, Woodbury.
        SKEIST-Marian. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of Marian Skeist, beloved wife of our esteemed Trustee, S. Merrill Skeist. Mrs. Skeist shared her husband's commitment to the Health System. They were major supporters of the Ann & Jules Gottlieb Women's Comprehensive Health Center and she was an active member of the Partners in Women's Health Committee. Our heartfelt condolences to her family and friends. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman Michael J. Dowling President & CEO North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        SKEIST-Marian. The Officers, Directors, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center express their heartfelt sympathy at the passing of Marian Skeist, a founding supporter and dedicated member of the Board. She will long be remembered for her advocacy and commitment to our Center. We extend sincere condolences to Merrill, Founding President of our Gurwin Foundation Board, and to the entire family. Joseph Gurwin, Chairman Lawrence Simon, President Herbert H. Friedman, E.V.P.
        SKEIST-Marian. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express our deepest sorrow at the passing of Marian, wife of our esteemed member, Merrill, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Lowell Kwiat, President
        SKEIST-Marian. We mourn the loss of Marian, devoted wife, mother, grandmother and friend. She was a vital and vibrant person talented in many areas. We will miss her. Our sympathy is with Merrill and the family at this sorrowful time. Jerry and Bette Lorber
      