
        LIPPERT - Felice. The trustees of the North ShoreLong Island Jewish Health System mourn the passing of one of our most dedicated supporters, Felice Lippert. She and her late husband, Albert, a former trustee of the Health System, were generous benefactors. The Lippert Pavilion is named after them both. Our heartfelt condolences to her sons, Keith and Randy, her family and friends. Roy J. Zuckerberg Chairman Michael J. Dowling President & CEO North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        LIPPERT-Felice. The Board of Directors of the Cancer Research and Treatment Fund mourns the death of Felice Lippert. Felice was a Board member of CR&T for many years, during which time she showed outstanding service to the cause of finding better and more complete treatments for cancer. She was taken too soon from her friends who will miss her humor, her smile and her grace during troubling times. Our hearts and wishes for peace are with the Lippert family during this very difficult period. She will be missed. Board of Directors of CR&T
        LIPPERT-Felice. A light went out on Broadway. No one was more fun. We lost a big sister, a friend, and a person we'll always remember with deep love and affection. Our hearts reach out to the Lippert family. She will be more than missed. Tina Flaherty, Kay Gilman, Suzanne Hemming and Patti Printz
        LIPPERT-Felice. She was the epitome of a cosmopolitan woman. Her love, laughter, kindess and warmth will always be remembered. Our deepest sympathy to her children and grandchildren. Priscilla, Sol, Jordan and Jill
        LIPPERT-Felice. What a special lady! Her celebration of life will be her lasting legacy. She'll be truly missed. Our deepest condolences to her children and grandchildren. Susan, Gerard & Julia
        LIPPERT - Felice. Beloved aunt and friend who embraced life with passion, perseverance, and perfection. Always in our hearts. The Samson and Fishman Families
        LIPPERT-Felice. Charming Felice. Words cannot express our profound grief at the loss of a cherished friend. Our deepest sympathy to Keith and Randy and their families. Muriel & Howard Weingrow
        LIPPERT - Felice. Dearest Felice, you were our good friend for so many years. We will miss you greatly. Sleep sweetly, dear Felice. Marlene and Hal Strauss.
        LIPPERT-Felice. Dear Felice, friends like you can never be replaced. You have always been there for me. Ruth Ann Drucker
        LIPPERT - Felice. Dearest Felice, you lightened our lives and you taught us how to have fun. All of our love, Laura, Jay, Seth and Haya
      