
        EISENPREIS-Alfred, Ph.D. On March 27, 2003 at age 78. Eminent communications and marketing executive, distinguished economist and scholar, died peacefully in his home. He served with distinction as Vice-President, Allied Stores Corp.; Administrator, New York City Economic Development Administration; Vice-President, Newspaper Advertising Bureau; ViceChairman, City Innovation; and Treasurer of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York. He was a Resident Fellow at the Explorers' Club. He served as a consultant to the Executive Office of the President/Office for Emergency Preparedness and a member of the National Defense Executive Reserve. He is survived by his son, Steven Long Eisenpreis, his former wife, Bettijane Long Eisenpreis, and his loving friend, Joan C. Schwartz. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Saturday 7-9PM. Services Sunday 10 AM at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave. at 65th St. Contributions in his memory may be made to Temple Emanu-El.
        EISENPREIS - Dr. Alfred. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York, its Rabbinate and Board of Trustees mourn the passing of Alfred Eisenpreis, a member of the Board, and Temple Treasurer. His life was a true reflection of the values of our tradition. His ways were ways of pleasantness and all his paths were peace. We shall never forget his brilliance of mind and goodness of soul. To Steven and Bettijane, we extend our deepest sympathies. The memory of the righteous is a blessing. Dr. David M. Posner, Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi Emeritus Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. Herbert C. Bernard, Sec'y
        EISENPREIS - Alfred. The Board of Directors of the Cancer Research and Treatment Fund mourn the passing of longtime friend and fellow Board member, Dr. Alfred Eisenpreis. A man of generous spirit and wisdom, he was never reluctant to show his curiosity or express a studied opinion when asked. As a Board member, for more than 30 years, Alfred willingly gave of his time and insights as he did with all his endeavors. He leaves behind many grateful friends who are richer for having known him and his love of life. With regret we bid him farewell as he begins the most exciting journey of all. The CR&T Board
      