
        TARLOW-Sandra Carlson. March 25, 2003. Beloved wife of Richard Tarlow. Loving mother of Cody, Wendy and Jordan. Devoted sister of Jamie, Bob and Storm. Cherished daughter of Veronica. She was President of Carlson and Partners Advertising. Service Thursday, March 27, 1:30PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Interment private.
        TARLOW - Sandy Carlson. Sandy Carlson, such an important part of the creative spirit behind our advertising, has left us so suddenly that we cannot begin to grasp the loss. She worked side by side with Ralph and all of us since the launch of our first ad campaigns in 1978. Her contributions are inestimable; her inspiration and energy were contagious. She was and will remain a role model for so many young men and women that she has worked with and nurtured at her own advertising agency, Carlson & Partners, and all of us here. She loved her profession and shared it with Dick Tarlow, her partner in love and work for 32 years. She often said her biggest challenge and reward was her dear son Cody. Reminders of Sandy line the walls of our corporate home. Her beauty, intelligence, sensitivity, sense of humor, her passion for life, friends and family will continue to fill our hearts and in some way the days ahead. Friends at Polo Ralph Lauren
        TARLOW - Sandy, Carlson. Rarely, have I had the privilege to know somebody for whom the terms beauty and class were equally defined. I never saw you without a smile, and in the 25 years that I have had the privilege of working with Carlson & Partners and Tarlow Advertising, you were always a major portion of the foundation for the enormous success of both of these organizations. My thoughts are with your beloved husband and my dear friend, Dick, and of course with all of your children. I pray for you to find the peace and rest in heaven that you earned while you were with us here on earth. Ronald E. Goldberger
        TARLOW - Sandy Carlson. For more than 25 years you were my creative partner in advertising. You gave emotion and romance and definition to the movies in our hearts. You are and will remain a deep part of the creative spirit of Polo and my personal vision. Ralph Lauren
        TARLOW - Sandy Carlson. Our cherished friend for so many years. We will miss you and never forget your great style, sincere kindness and extraordinary grace. Margie and Michael
        TARLOW - Sandy Carlson. The Topps Co. Board sends heartfelt sympathies to its fellow member, Dick Tarlow, and family on the untimely passing of his beloved wife. Arthur T. Shorin, Chairman
      