
        MOYNIHAN-Daniel P. The American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the death of a distinguished Fellow, renowned intellectual leader, dedicated statesman, eloquent orator, and author of pathbreaking Academy studies. Professor Moynihan's innovative scholarly work on race, ethnicity, poverty, and urban planning in the 1950's and 1960's influenced future scholarship and became the foundation for his long and active role in shaping public policy. The Academy extends its condolences to his wife, Elizabeth, and his entire family. Pres. Patricia Meyer Spacks Vice President Louis Cabot Secretary Emilio Bizzi Treasurer Peter Lynch Exec. Officer Leslie Berlowitz
        MOYNIHAN-Senator Daniel Patrick. The City University of New York mourns the passing of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. His extraordinary service to our city, state and nation will be an enduring inspiration for many generations to come. We take special pride in his attendance at City College for one year. Our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Elizabeth and the entire family. Benno C. Schmidt, Jr Vice Chairman Board of Trustees Matthew Goldstein Chancellor
        MOYNIHAN-Daniel P. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York mourns the loss of a clarion voice for Israel, Zionism, Jerusalem and Soviet Jewry. We will miss the leadership, insight, wit and wisdom of our cherished friend, a true ''Mentsch.'' May Liz and his family be comforted by the rich legacy of his life's achievements. Ezra G. Levin, President Michael S. Miller, Executive Vice President
        MOYNIHAN-Daniel Patrick. We are deeply saddened by the loss of this caring, courageous and wise leader. His energy, enthusiasm and passion will be remembered forever. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Liz; three children, Tim, Maura and John; friends and all who share in this loss. We will never forget his efforts and leadership on the Food Allergy Initiative's behalf. Sharyn Mann, Todd Slotkin, The Food Allergy Initiative
      