
        DIXON-Robert J. General USAF (Retired) died at his home in Fair Oaks Ranch on Friday, March 21, 2003. He was born in New York City on April 9, 1920 to William and Mary (Smith) Dixon. General Dixon moved to Fair Oaks Ranch in 1982, following his retirement as President and Chairman of the Board of Fairchild Republic Company. He is survived by his wife, Kelly; son, Tom (Linda), son, Roland, daughter, Mary, daughter, Kelly Lee Cooper (William); and grandchildren, Hillary Dixon, Adam Dixon, Charlotte Cooper and Emma Cooper. General Dixon retired from the US Air Force as Commander of the US Air Force's Tactical Air Command on 30 April 1978 after more than 37 years of active military service with the Royal Canadian Air Force, Royal Air Force, Army Air Corps and the USAF. He was a command pilot with more than 5000 hours of flying time. After graduation from Dartmouth College in 1941 with a BA degree in Literature, General Dixon entered pilot training in the US Army Air Corps, followed by training in the Royal Canadian Air Force and was commissioned a Pilot Officer in the RCAF. He transferred to the Army Air Corps in 1943 as a 1st Lieutenant serving in the United Kingdom. General Dixon served as a fighter pilot in three wars, World War II where he flew Spitfires, P-38s and P-51s. He was shot down over an oil refinery in Germany and taken prisoner. He flew 28 combat missions in F86s before the armistice in the Korean War. He was the Vice Commander of the Seventh Air Force during the Vietnam War where he flew 36 combat missions in the F-4, RF-4 and other Seventh Air Force aircraft. Upon his return from Vietnam on August 1, 1970, General Dixon was promoted to Lieutenant General and became the Deputy Chief of Staff, Personnel, Headquarters USAF. General Dixon was in this position when the Vietnamese released the US Prisoners of War and, drawing on his personal experiences was instrumental in developing and implementing the actions necessary to welcome them back to the Air Force and transition those who so desired back into successful career paths. On October 1, 1973, he was promoted to General and selected as Commander of Tactical Air Command (CINCAFLANT) until his retirement in 1978. While TAC Commander, General Dixon implemented and developed Red Flag Combat Training and began the ''Flags'' exercises in Command/Combat Maintenance, and with the RCAF, among others. General Dixon, and TAC, were awarded the Collier Trophy for developing Red Flag. While Commander of TAC, General Dixon was inducted into the Tactical Air Command Order of the Sword, the highest honor bestowed by non-commissioned officers. After his Air Force retirement, General Dixon was President and Chairman of the Board of the Fairchild Republic Company from 1978 to 1982. After 1982 he was an independent consulting contractor with various aerospace industries and served on numerous boards including the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, and Burdeshaw Associates. He also served as a Trustee of the Falcon Foundation, United States Air Force Academy. Among General Dixon's military decorations and awards are the Distinguished Service Cross, the Air Force Distinguished Service Medal with two Oak Leaf Clusters, the Army Distinguished Service Medal, the British Distinguished Flying Cross, the Legion of Merit with one Oak Leaf Cluster, the US Distinguished Flying Cross, the Bronze Star Medal, the Air Medal with 11 Oak Leaf Clusters, and the Purple Heart. He also received other decorations for his meritorious service in WWII, the Korean Conflict and the Vietnam War. Memorial Service Tuesday, 11:00 A.M. Randolph AFB Chapel #
      