
        MOYNIHAN-Daniel Patrick. The board of trustees and administration of Bard College and the Levy Economics Institute mourn the passing of the Honorable Daniel Patrick Moynihan, one of America's great public intellectuals and public servants, and an honorary alumnus of the College. He served his country with distinction and left an indelible mark on our most important national institutions and public policies. As a member of the Board of Advisors of the Levy Economics Institute at Bard, he offered, with profound generosity, his deep intellect and keen insight and for that we will forever be grateful. He will be sorely missed. David E. Schwab II, Chairman, Bard College Leon Botstein, President, Bard College Leon Levy, Chairman, Levy Economics Institute Dimitri B. Papadimitriou, President, Levy Economics Institute
        MOYNIHAN-Daniel Patrick. And therefore, friend, if your great race were run, And these things came, so much the more thereby Have you made greatness your companion, Although it be for children that you sigh: These are the clouds about the fallen sun, The majesty that shuts his burning eye. William Butler Yeats Pat, you were such an important part of our lives. We'll miss you. Sharyn, Steve, Tamara and Joseph Mann
        MOYNIHAN-Daniel Patrick. The Board and Staff of the Citizens Committee for New York City are deeply saddened by the death of our longtime Honorary Chairman. Throughout his distinguished career as educator, diplomat, politican and author, Pat Moynihan always held dear the city he loved first and best, and that he served so well. Our deepest sympathy to Liz and the children. Osborn Elliott, Chairman Michael E. Clark, President
        MOYNIHAN-Daniel Patrick. We are deeply saddened by the loss of this caring, courageous and wise leader. His energy, enthusiasm and passion will be remembered forever. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Liz; three children, Tim, Maura and John; friends and all who share in this loss. We will never forget his efforts and leadership on the Food Allergy Initiative's behalf. Sharyn Mann, Todd Slotkin, The Food Allergy Initiative
        MOYNIHAN-Daniel Patrick. The Jerusalem Fellowships and Aish Hatorah mourn the passing of the great statesman and American leader, Daniel Patrick Moynihan. As founding Honorary Chairman of the Jerusalem Fellowships, he strengthened the relationship between Israel and the U.S. in a very significant way. We will miss him very much.
        MOYNIHAN-Senator Daniel Patrick. The Board and Staff of the Landmarks Conservancy are deeply saddened by the death of our longtime Board Member-a giant in public life and in preservation. It has been an honor to be associated with him. Our deepest sympathies to his family. John J. Kerr, Chair Peg Breen, President
        MOYNIHAN-Daniel Patrick. As we mourn his passing and recall his unique service to our state and nation, we note with pride our longtime association with Pat Moynihan, to whose wife, partner and campaign manager, Liz Moynihan, we extend deepest sympathies. Raymond B. Harding, Vice Chair, Liberal Party of NY State
        MOYNIHAN-Daniel Patrick. The Association for a Better New York mourns the passing of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. Statesman, friend, New Yorker-we will miss your intellect, leadership, passion, insight and keen sense of humor. William C. Rudin, Chairman
        MOYNIHAN-Daniel Patrick. Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corp., joins the nation and the Senator's family in mourning the passing of Daniel Patrick Moynihan, caring Board Member, 1986-2000.
        MOYNIHAN-Senator Daniel Patrick-Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) mourns the passing of our dear, & legendary, friend Daniel Patrick Moynihan, U.S. Senator and Honorary Member of the GNYHA Board of Governors. A staunch and eloquent advocate for protecting America's teaching hospitals and fostering scientific breakthroughs, Senator Moynihan's contributions to health care were immeasurable. Senator Moynihan was a visionary and a national treasure who will be sorely missed and always remembered. We extend our deepest sympathies his wife Elizabeth; his children Timothy, Maura, and John and his grandchildren; and his many colleagues, admirers, and friends. Edward A. Stolzenberg, Chairman Kenneth A. Raske, President GNYHA
      