
        PASSIN-Herbert. Died February 26, 2003. World renowned anthropologist and Professor Emeritus of Columbia University, where he served as Chairman of the Sociology Department and Director of the East Asian Institute in the 1970's and 1980's. Also worked as a consultant and adviser to prominent American and Japanese government officials and organizations. Received the Order of the Sacred Treasure from the Emperor of Japan in 1984 for his lifetime work in improving Japanese-American relations and for his numerous writings and books about Japan, Japanese politics, culture and the Japanese language. One of the founding fathers of the Shimoda Conference in Japan, and the Parliamentary Exchange Program between Washington and Tokyo. A graduate of the Army's Japanese language training school in Michigan, he worked in General MacArthur's headquarters during the Occupation as head of the Public Opinion and Sociological Research Division. He also worked for the Congress of Cultural Freedom in Paris in the 1950's. A native of Chicago and son of Jewish Ukrainian immigrants, he delighted in his many friendships with leading contemporary intellectuals, writers, artists and musicians, and was the driving force in luring many of them to Japan for the first time to test their assumptions against reality. He is survived by Helen Latham Passin, his wife of 40-plus years; his brother, Sidney Passin; a son, Thomas Passin; a stepson, Scott Latham; and four grandchildren, James, Laura and Mark Passin, and Victoria Latham. The family held a private celebration of his life at their home on March 1, and a memorial service will be scheduled in the near future. Condolences may be sent to Helen Passin at 25 Claremont Avenue, New York, NY 10027. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Herbert Passin Japanese Education Fund, which is being established in his honor.
        PASSIN-Herbert. Our very dear friend, mentor and Godparent. Together with his wife Helen, Herb showered us with his generosity, support, knowledge and wit. He is irreplaceable. We will miss him greatly. All our love, Joy, Kim and Adam Slote
      