
        SHAINWALD - Sidney. On March 7, 2003 died at age 86. He had a distinguished career as a consumer advocate and certified public accoutant. He was active in the consumer movement at Consumer's Union, publisher of Consumer Reports, from its birth until his retirement as Associate Director in 1982. He made many speeches throughout the world on behalf of the International Organization of Consumers Unions. He was a member of New York Society of CPA's for more than fifty years, the American Institute of CPA's, and the National Association of Accountants. He served on several public interests Boards of Directors and was a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Board of Arbitrators and a member of the panel of arbitrators of the New York Stock Exchange. He was a partner in a public accounting firm from 1942 until he left to serve in World War II. He returned to the firm from 1946 to 1958, when he joined Consumers Union as head of the financial department, promotion, subscription fulfillment, among other duties. Mr. Shainwald testified in several court cases as an expert, with regard to ensure that there was appropriate purity of the blood supply. He was quoted in several magazines on the subject including ''Money Magazine''. As a public accountant, Mr Shainwald represented Jacques Lipchitz (a friend), George Grosz, and Marc Chagall whom he shepherded through immigration. He also was Mike Todd's financial advisor as well as being the accountant for Mary and Albert Lasker, Peggy Guggenheim, David Merrick, Josh Logan, and Zero Mostel. He had an active practice representing many artists, producers, actors, and cultural organizations. Sidney Shainwald was also an avid music, poetry, and art lover. He was recognized by his family and many friends for his love, integrity, sensitivity and addiction to puns. Sidney Shainwald was born in Brooklyn in 1917 and graduated from the City College of New York in 1939. He is survived by his wife of forty-two years, Sybil, his children Robert, Laurie, Louise and Marsha, and his grandchildren Cyrus, Sky and Emma. He also leaves three step - grandchildren, Jeff, Judd, and Myles Kleeger and a great-grandchild Beatrice. Funeral services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Sunday, March 9th, 1:30 PM. A celebration of Sidney Shainwald's life will be held at a future date.
        SHAINWALD - Sidney. The entire staff of the law firm of Benedict P. Morelli & Associates mourns the loss of Sidney Shainwald, husband of Sybil Shainwald, a valued member of our firm's family.
        SHAINWALD - Sidney. Our heartfelt sympathies go out to Sybil Shainwald and her family on the loss of Sidney. His intelligence and wit will be sorely missed. Arlene and Ben Morelli
      