
        STEINBERG-Al A., passed away on March 12, 2003, after a courageous battle with illness. Beloved husband of Beula, devoted brother to Helen Zousmer, cherished father of Howard and Miriam, Robert, Steven and Carol. Much loved uncle. Caring and generous grandfather to Elyse, Samantha, Alex, David, Stacey, Ruthie, Ashley, Barry, Mia and Kelly. Thanks ''Big Al'' for filling our lives with generosity, love, kindness and joy. Your passion for life and enduring spirit will be with us forever. Funeral services today at 1:15 PM at Riverside, West 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        STEINBERG-Al. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, Al Steinberg, and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Beulah, and their family. Robert P. Adler, President Boca Rio Golf Club, Inc.
        STEINBERG-Al. We will always remember our good and loyal friend Al. We will cherish the memories of the good times filled with your laughter and vitality. We extend deepest condolences to the entire Steinberg family. The Feiner Family Liz and Irwin, Kathy and Steven, Andrea and Andrew, Connie and Scott
        STEINBERG-Al A. We are deeply saddened at the passing of our most beloved uncle, Al, the most caring and kindest person of all. His goodness will remain an inspiration to us and our children and grandchildren. We will cherish his wonderful loving qualities always as an honor to his memory. Rhoda and Steven Steinberg
        STEINBERG-Al (Big Al). He will be missed by everyone who knew him. As big as he was he had a heart twice as big. We feel honored to be called his friends. To Beula and family, our love, thoughts and prayers are with you. Carl and Alice Grossman and Family
        STEINBERG-Al. Sadly, we say good-bye to Al Steinberg. He was a dear friend to our parents, to us, and to our children. A final good-bye to everyone's ''Big Al.'' Gail & Barry Group & Family Nanci & Stuart Gelb & Family
        STEINBERG - Al. Seymour and Claire Baruch and their entire family grieve over the death of Al Steinberg. A great friend and a mensch. We will all miss him and may he rest in peace.
        STEINBERG-Al, Big in heart and spirit, Big Al will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Our sincerest sympathy to the entire Steinberg family. Levines, Coplans and Rubels
        STEINBERG-Al. To Big Al, my mentor and my best friend. I love you and will miss you always. Fin
        STEINBERG - Ruth. On March 11, 2003. Cherished mother of Norman Kane. Beloved mother-in-law of Ena Kane. Devoted sister of Helen Marks. Beloved grandmother of Philippe. Devoted aunt to Kory, Jay, and Renee.
      