
        GRACE-Roy. Died peacefully on February 26, 2003, after a courageous battle against prostate cancer. Born on December 5, 1936 in NY, Roy lived in this city all his life, and also had a home in Hadlyme, CT. After graduating from the High School of Art and Design, he served in the US Army, and then attended Cooper Union. Although trained as a graphic designer, he discovered his true calling in advertising and a true home at Doyle Dane Bernbach, which he joined as an art director in 1964. There he was responsible for much of the brilliant Volkswagen advertising during the 60's and 70's. His unique combination of marketing insight and creative flair was also demonstrated by his work on Alka Seltzer, American Tourister, IBM, Mobil and Chanel. Honored for this body of work, by 1986 he had become Creative Director of DDB Worldwide, as well as Chairman of DDB/NY. In 1986, Roy left DDB to found his own agency, Grace and Rothschild. Quickly establishing a reputation for creative excellence, Grace and Rothschild is best known for the US introduction of the Range Rover, and the fourteen years of Land Rover advertising that followed, as well as its work for J&B Scotch, Mt. Sinai Medical Center, and Whittle Communications. Among the hundreds of exceptional commercials created by Roy during his extraordinary career are the ''Mama Mia/Spicy Meatball'' commercial for Alka Seltzer, the ''Gorilla'' commercial for American Tourister and the Volkswagen ''funeral'' spot. These and many others have become more than merely excellent pieces of advertising-they have crossed over to become defining elements of the national culture. Roy's recognition by his peers is unanimous: 25 of Ad Age's 100 Best Commercials of All Time are his; four of his commercials are in the permanent collection of New York's Museum of Modern Art; over one hundred of his commercials are in the Museum of Television and Radio's permanent collection; he is in the Hall of Fame of both the Art Directors Club, and the One Club. Roy served as a trustee of Cooper Union, and was the recipient of its St. Gauden's Award as Outstanding Alumnus. He was also on the board of the Smithsonian Museum of American History. In addition to all his professional accomplishments, it must also be said that Roy Grace was a man of rare intellect, irresistible wit, great personal style and uncompromising character. Because he valued true excellence, he delighted in encouraging the talents of many young men and women. He leaves his wife of 37 years, Marcia, his daughter Jessica of New York, his son Nicholas of Los Angeles, and countless others for whom, by his example both personal and professional, he remains a hero. In his memory, gifts may be directed to the Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering, 1233 York Avenue, Room B 101, New York 10021.
      