
        BRUNETTI - Anna G. Of Hackensack, New Jersey and Fort Lauderdale, Florida, passed away on March 5, 2003, at Miami Heart Institute in Miami Beach, Florida after a brief illness. Mrs. Brunetti, 88, was the widow of the real estate magnate Joseph J. Brunetti. Born in Brooklyn, New York in 1914 to Lucia and Joseph Prisco, Mrs. Brunetti was one of eight children. Ann and Joe Brunetti married in 1930 and shortly thereafter gave birth to son, John J. Brunetti, and daughter, Lucille V. Costa (deceased). In 1939, Mr. and Mrs. Brunetti founded the Joseph J. Brunetti Construction Company, and went on to build developments in New Jersey known as Brookchester, Richfield Village, Wright Village, Maybrook Gardens and others. The company went on to become one of the most prominent real estate companies in New Jersey and Florida. Today it is known as the Brunetti Organization located in Old Bridge, New Jersey, with son, John and grandsons, John Jr., and Stephen at the helm. In 1942, the Brunetti family settled in Hackensack, New Jersey and three years later gave birth to their third child, Jo Ann H. Brunetti. The Brunetti's spent winters at their Florida residence and summers at their homes at Sea Girt and Hackensack, New Jersey. Anna and Joseph Brunetti, in the late 1950's developed a love for thoroughbred racehorses and owned such champions as ''Vertex'' and ''Staunchness''. In the late 1960's they built Red Oak Farm in Ocala, Florida and began breeding thoroughbred racehorses. Mrs. Brunetti served as a member of the Board of Directors of Hialeah Racetrack in Hialeah, Florida, which had been acquired by her son, John, in 1977. After the death of her husband in 1968, Mrs. Brunetti inaugurated The Brunetti Foundation. For over thirty years she has donated money to her favorite charitable organizations such as the American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association, the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation and many others. Also, contributions have been made to various schools such as the New York Military Academy, colleges and universities, some of which were attended by her children and grandchildren. Her wish was to provide students with the opportunity to achieve their educational goals. Additionally, medical centers such as Hackensack Medical Center, St. Barnabas Medical Center, Broward General Medical Center and others have been recipients of contributions from the Brunetti Foundation. Anna Brunetti was a loving mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. She is survived by her two children, John J. Brunetti of Bal Harbour, Florida and Little Silver, New Jersey and Jo Ann H. Brunetti of Fort Lauderdale, Florida; her five grandchildren, Candace A. Moore of Vero Beach, Florida, Kimberly J. Simmons of Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey, John J. Brunetti Jr., of Wayside, New Jersey, Kelly Costa-Kelly of Vero Beach, Florida, and Stephen P. Brunetti of Aventura, Florida; her six great grandchildren, Mark Moore, Samantha Simmons, Michael Moore, Jessica Simmons, Courtney McKnight Brunetti, and Stephen P. Brunetti Jr., and her sister, Fannie Perillo of Clearwater, Florida. In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions to the Brunetti Foundation, 1655 US Highway 9, Old Bridge, New Jersey 08857 or contributions to other religious or charitable organizations. Funeral Mass will be held at 10:00 AM on Tuesday, March 11 at Holy Trinity Church, 34 Maple Avenue, Hackensack, New Jersey. Interment to follow at St. Joseph's Cemetery, 179 Hackensack Avenue, Hackensack, New Jersey.
      