
        SISKIND-Claire (Wassner). On March 24, 2003. Caring daughter of Sidney and Lee Wassner. Devoted niece of Sadie Pearson. Beloved wife of Barry. Loving mother of Jeffrey and Nancy, Stephen and Laura, Jill and Jeffrey. Adored grandmother of Andrew, Sam, Elizabeth, Max, Cara, Melanie, Shelby & Julia. Although you were taken from us too soon we have a lifetime of memories to hold you close to us forever more. Your courage, dignity and love has shown us each the true meaning of life. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, March 26, 11:30 A.M. at Gutterman's Funeral Home, Woodbury, New York. In lieu of flowers please send donations to The Fund for Blood and Cancer Research, C/O Dr. Mark Pasmantier, 407 East 70th St, NY, NY 10021.
        SISKIND-Claire. We love you so much, you'll be in our hearts forever. Love, Stephen, Laura, Max and Cara.
        SISKIND-Claire. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member Claire Siskind and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Barry, her sons Jeffrey and Stephen, daughter Jill and their families. Russell Leavitt, President Fran Lilling, Women's Group President
        SISKIND-Claire. On March 24, 2003. Dear Mom, we will keep you in our hearts forever. All our love. Your daughter, Jill Your son-in-law, Jeffrey Your loving grandchildren, Melanie, Shelby and Julia
        SISKIND-Claire. On March 24, 2003. Mom, you never gave up on me. I never gave up on you. I will carry you close to my heart forever and ever. I love you. Jeffrey
        SISKIND-Claire. Here's to all the good times... We love you and you will always be with us. Ken, Geysha, Jami, Evan, Alix
        SISKIND-Claire. On March 24, 2003. Dear Grandma, we will miss you always. Love Andrew, Sam, and Elizabeth
        SISKIND-Claire. On March 24, 2003. To my dear friend who I loved for 52 years, I'll miss you always. Roz and Mike
        SISKIND-Claire. Our beautiful friend is gone, but the memories will be with us forever. May she rest in peace. Crames and Sitzer families
      