
        LONOFF-Shumer S. Died March 18. His family, friends, and colleagues are greatly saddened by his passing. A Senior Managing Director at Bear, Stearns & Co., Shumer's life will be celebrated at a memorial service in his honor on Tuesday, March 25, at 10:30 A.M. at Cipriani, 110 East 42nd Street, New York, New York. He is survived by his daughter, Jennifer Lonoff Schiff, of Wilton, Conn., a sonin-law, Kenny Schiff, and his beloved granddaughter, Abigail Hannah Schiff.
        LONOFF - Shumer. The American Jewish Committee is profoundly saddened by the death of Shumer Lonoff, a longtime and generous supporter and dear friend. A member of AJC's National Leadership Council and a recipient of our Wall Street Division National Human Relations Award, he personified the very best of what AJC stands for-integrity, compassion, and a resolute commitment to human rights, intergroup harmony and Jewish values. Shumer earned the affection and esteem of all who knew him and we will greatly miss his guidance and warmth. We send deepest condolences to his daughter and granddaughter, Jennifer and Abigail Schiff, son-in-law, Kenneth, and the rest of his grieving family. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Exec Dir Jaime Kelstein, Asst Exec Dir
        LONOFF-Shumer. The employees of Bear Stearns are deeply saddened by the loss of our colleague and friend, Shumer Lonoff. Shumer was with Bear Stearns for nearly 35 years during which time he established himself as one of the leading Private Client Services brokers in the industry. His trustworthiness and his financial insight were valued by more than 200 clients. For many at Bear Stearns, however, Shumer was much more than a successful broker, he was a friend, mentor and confidant. Commenting on the loss, Bear Stearns Chairman and CEO, James E. Cayne said, ''Shumer made a dramatic impact both professionally and personally during his career at Bear Stearns. He will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to his family at this difficult time.''
        LONOFF-Shumer. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation mourn the untimely and sudden passing of our cherished friend, long-standing Board member and esteemed and devoted Treasurer. His wisdom and advice on financial matters was instrumental in the Foundation's dynamic growth. We extend our deepest condolences to Jennifer, Ken and Abigail Schiff on the loss of their beloved father, father-in-law and grandfather. May your memories be an everlasting source of comfort. Alan P. Safir, Chairman Tamar Spilo, Ph.D., President Dr. Samuel Waxman, Scientific Director
        LONOFF-Shumer S. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of one of our most popular and esteemed members. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his close friends and the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President
      