
        HALPERN-Harry A., 91, cherished husband for 66 years and very best friend of Sylvia (Nee Stillman), loving and caring father of Joel A. Halpern, deceased, and Linda Lesser (Warren). Adored grandfather of Jon Halpern (Kerri), Julie Cook (Jim), Beth Lipman (Larry), Jason Halpern (Katelyn) and Mark Lesser. He proudly boasted of his ten precious greatgrandchildren, Kelsey Rose, Kelsey Lauren, Joel, Leah, Reed, Mackie, Samara, Jackson, Max and Paige. Harry, along with his family, built a successful real estate enterprise that has sustained four generations, but the focal point of his life was his overwhelming love, concern and involvement with his family. He was the patriarch of his family. His presence will be felt forever. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, April 2, at Beth El Synagogue, North Avenue, New Rochelle, New York, at 10:30 AM.
        HALPERN-Harry A., 91 years was not long enough. We were so proud and happy to call you our Dad. You will never be out of our thoughts. Your integrity, devotion to charity and commitment to family will be a model to us always. We will never forget you. We will always try to make you proud. Your adoring daughter and son, Linda and Warren Lesser
        HALPERN-Harry A. To our beloved grandfather and great-grandfather. You have filled our lives with love, laughter and happiness. You taught us the true importance of family and togetherness. We hope that we can live up to the legacy you have created for our family and continue to make you proud. You are the tie that binds us...to say that you will be missed is a profound understatement. All our love always, Beth, Mark, Larry, Donna, Reed, Samara and Paige
        HALPERN-Harry. In loving memory of our grandfather, Harry Albert Halpern, who enriched our lives and the lives of those who were fortunate to have known and loved him. The strong family values and love for life he imparted in us will always be part of us as we pass his memory on to future generations. You will always be cherished deep in our hearts. Love, Jon and Kerri, Julie and Jim, Jason and Katelyn.
      