
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. What was once a large, energetic and vibrant young family, is now diminished by an accident that killed Anne and Tony. We, Tony's brother and sister, are struggling to understand and accept our loss. Our heart goes out to Miasha, Tora, William, Cole and Noah. We will never be able to replace or forget our generous, committed and loving brother & sister-in-law. Irma Fisher Mann and Dr. Norman Stearns and Lester and Gwen Fisher and our children, Kyle, Casey, Craig, Brian and Cheryl Fisher and Robert and Elizabeth Mann
        FISHER-Anne and Tony. You will be deeply missed. You were inspiring in so many ways, always caring, always generous, always stylish and always, always the most deovted parents to your beautiful children. You were such good friends and we loved you very much. Our thoughts and prayers are with your children, Miasha, Tora, William, Noah and Cole, your family and all the people who loved you as we did. Danielle and David Ganek
        FISHER-Anne and Tony. The Board and staff of the International Center of Photography mourn the tragic passing of our trustee, Anne, and her husband Tony. Full of life, passionately committed to all whom they cared for, they left us far before their time. Our deep condolences to their parents and children and to all who share our grief. Gayle Greenhill, Chairman Raymond J. McGuire, Pres. Willis Hartshorn, Director
        FISHER-Anne. The Barnard College Center For Toddler Development mourns the death of Anne Fisher, a loving mother. Our love and sympathy to Cole and family.
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York extend their heartfelt condolences to Richard, Vice President of the Foundation, Tony and Anne's children, and the entire extended Fisher family on their tragic loss. Our thoughts and prayers are with all of you at this terribly sad time. Larry A. Silverstein Chairman Jerry L. Cohen President Officers and Directors
        FISHER-Anthony and Anne. The LeFrak family is deeply saddened by the tragic passing of Anthony and Anne Fisher. They will be missed by all who were fortunate enough to know them. Tony and Anne were kind and generous, full of good will and charm. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Fisher family.
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Board of Trustees of the Intrepid Museum Foundation mourns our Chairman and CEO, M. Anthony Fisher, and his wife Anne. Mr. Fisher was our leader and our inspiration, and dedicated himself wholeheartedly to the mission of Intrepid, and to serving the men and women of the Armed Forces and their families. Mr. Fisher was a leader in many ways: in business, in philanthropy, and as a beloved father. His life touched thousands of people, and we have all suffered a great loss. Our condolences to Tony and Anne's five children, and the entire Fisher family, is in our prayers. William Baker, James D. Bishop, Denis A. Bovin, James Carrier, Max Chapman, Philip W. Cyburt, Peter M. Dawkins, Charles de Gunzburg, Martin Edelman, Steven Fisher, Kenneth Fisher, Donald Gardner, Stanley Hubbard, Kent L. Karosen, James G. Kennedy, Howard Lutnick, Tex McCrary, Bruce E. Mosler, James L. Nederlander, Steven Roth, Thomas F. Secunda, Mathis Shinnick, Stephen B. Siegel, Barry Sloane, Martin R. Steele, Robert Stelben, Michael Stern, Dennis Swanson, Tom L. Tyrrell Jr., Barbara Walters, Bill White, Dave H. Williams, Arthur Wilson
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Officers, Board of Directors, and Staff of UJAFederation of New York are shocked and deeply saddened by the tragic passing of Anthony and Anne Fisher. The entire Fisher family has been cherished friends and supporters of UJA-Federation, and deeply devoted to Jewish and humanitarian causes. Through their generosity, the Fishers have supported hundreds of programs that have helped the needy, rescued the imperiled, and upheld the traditions of the Jewish community. We hope and pray that the Fishers' philanthropic legacy of compassion and concern will be a source of comfort to their family at this extraordinarily difficult time. We mourn this untimely loss and extend our heartfelt sympathies to Anthony's brother Richard, the Fishers' five children and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay Executive VP and CEO
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Fisher House Foundation expresses our deepest condolences to the Fisher Family on the loss of our Vice Chairman, M. Anthony Fisher, and his wife Anne. Tony was committed to serving the Armed Forces and their families, through the Fisher House and other efforts. He will be greatly missed. Our condolences to their children and the Fisher family. Stanley R. Arthur, Paul W. Bucha, Gerry Byrne, Michael P. C. Carns, Patricia Courter, Robert Dryfoos, John A. Dubia, Martin Edelman, John N. Faigle, Kenneth Fisher, Arnold Fisher, Audrey Fisher, Janet Grampp, Charles Krulak, John W. Lowe, Robert Marks, Tex McCrary, Jack Nickert, Lois B. Pope, Julie Quinn, John M. Shalikashvili, Martin R. Steele, Michael Stern, Gordon R. Sullivan, Carl Vuono, Gail West, Bill White, Vivian Wilson
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. Cushing Academy expresses our deepest condolences to the Fisher family on the loss of M. Anthony Fisher and his wife Anne. A beloved graduate of Cushing's Class of 1969, Tony was a visionary benefactor of the Academy. As a Trustee for 30 years and the President of the Board for 16 years, Tony, through his leadership, generosity and dedication, has profoundly shaped the Academy and its future. His commitment to children and to their education was deep and abiding. He will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathies go out to their family. They are in our thoughts and prayers. Headmaster M. Willard Lampe II On behalf of the entire Cushing Academy community and the Board of Trustees
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Horace Mann community mourns the tragic deaths of Tony Fisher and his beloved wife, Anne Fisher. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his brother, Richard Fisher '59, Alumnus and Trustee of Horace Mann School, his mother Emily Fisher Landau and his sister Candia. We offer our love and prayers to their daughters Miasha and Tora, and to their three sons William, Noah and Cole. Tony and Anne touched the lives of thousands of New Yorkers and other individuals each passing day. We were honored to have known them. Dr. Eileen Mullady Head of School Robert J. Katz '65 Chair, Board of Trustees
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Trustees, faculty, staff, and students of the Nightingale-Bamford School mourn the loss of Trustee and Nightingale father, Tony Fisher, and his wife Anne. Tony was a devoted member of our Board, passionate and enthusiastic in his support of Nightingale. He and Anne will be missed throughout the entire NBS community. We extend our deepest condolences to their daughters Miasha '07 and Tora '08; their sons William, Noah, and Cole; and the entire Fisher family. Grant F. Winthrop, President Board of Trustees Dorothy A. Hutcheson Head of School
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Allen-Stevenson School mourns the loss of Anthony and Anne Fisher and extends its deepest condolences to family members including Tora, Miasha, William, Noah and Cole Fisher, Emily Fisher Landau, Richard Fisher, Candia Fisher, and Robert and Lois Williamee. Tony and Anne were devoted parents and will be greatly missed by the entire School community. Ronald S. Rolfe President David R. Trower Headmaster
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne E. The entire Temple Israel family mourns the untimely and tragic passing of M. Anthony and Anne Fisher. Tony and Anne were devoted parents, caring children, dear friends and gracious supporters of numerous public, private and spiritual causes. Our congregation was particularly blessed by their love, compassion and energy. Their memories will abide among us as a loving benediction. Judith S. Lewis, Rabbi Martin Cohen, President
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Partners, Associates and Staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield mourn the loss of our dear client and friend, Tony, and his beloved wife Anne. We send our condolences to their family and legion of friends and admirers-all of whom will miss this great philanthropist and kind gentleman. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research Foundation and the Michael Stern Center for Parkinson's Research Foundation express our deepest condolences on the loss of M. Anthony Fisher and Anne Fisher. Tony was an outstanding business leader, a noted philanthropist and a great friend. He will be deeply missed. Michael Stern
        FISHER-M. Anthony. The Board of Trustees of Temple Israel of the City of New York mourns the loss of our cherished colleague and his beloved wife, Anne. Tony served unselfishly and with the heart of a giant. He leaves a void that can never be filled. Oskar Brecher, Chairman Martin Cohen, President
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. I am deeply saddened at the loss of my leader, my mentor and my friend, Tony Fisher and his wife Anne. Tony was a great American and a true leader, and taught me a very great deal. My prayers are with his children and with the entire Fisher family. Tony, I will miss you. Bill White
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. In a time of leaders and patriots, not all heroes are lost far and away. In the tragic passing of Anne and M. Anthony Fisher, we have all lost two great inspirations for our city and nation. My deepest personal sympathies to the Fisher family. Bruce E. Mosler
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. Our sympathy rests with the Fisher family in this time of great sorrow with the loss of Anne and M. Anthony. Our great city, to which they contributed so much, will be far emptier in the wake of their unexpected and tragic passing. The DiRenzo Family
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. Let us honor America by remembering Tony Fisher, a special person I was fortunate to know and work with closely in real estate and philanthropies. My deepest condolences to the entire Fisher family. Jerry L. Cohen
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. Casita Maria expresses deepest sympathy to Emily Fisher Landau and the Fisher family. Jacqueline Weld Drake Board Chairman Norrisa O'Keeffe Board Chairman Emeritus
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. In memoriam, our deep and heartfelt sympathy to the family of Anne and M. Anthony Fisher on their sudden and tragic loss. Cushman & Wakefield
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne E. The Temple Israel Early Childhood Learning Center mourns the loss of two very active and beloved parents whose love and joy of their children showed in every way. Our hearts reach out to their children with love and compassion. Nancy-Ellen Micco, Director ECLC Lori Sitomer, President Parents' Association Beth Lee, Chair Nursery School Committee
      