
        BEIER-Michael P. Of Manhattan (formerly of Massapequa), on April 25, 2003, of ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease), at the age of 39. He was a loving husband and father to his wife Theresa and his children Carly, 6, and Dustin, 4. Beloved son of Robert and Kathleen. Dear brother of Bob, Susan, Joseph, Kathleen and the late Laura. After his diagnosis, Michael became involved with the MDA and was named a national vice president of that organization. He worked tirelessly to raise public awareness about ALS and to raise funds for research to find a cure. Michael was a Director of Equity Trading for Credit Suisse First Boston in Manhattan and enjoyed a Wall Street career for 18 years. He leaves many family members and friends to remember his wonderful spirit for life and his generous nature that never waned even in the face of a terrible disease. He will be sorely missed by us all. The family will receive friends Sunday and Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Services will be held Tuesday, 10:30 AM, at Unitarian Church of All Souls, 1157 Lexington Avenue at 80th Street. Michael asked that in lieu of flowers donations may be sent to MDA Wings Over Wall Street, 1140 Avenue of the Americas, Suite 1801, New York, New York 10036. wingsoverwallstreet.org
        BEIER-Michael Patrick. We grieve for this dear friend, brilliant financier and energetic leader, who lost his battle with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis at age 39. As a national vice-president of MDA, he brought an extraordinary amount of attention and support to our battle against ALS through MDA's Wings Over Wall Street. Our hearts go out to his widow, Theresa, his two young children, and his countless friends. To them, we vow to intensify our efforts to defeat ALS. Muscular Dystrophy Association Robert M. Bennett Chairman of the Board Robert Ross President and CEO Victor Wright, Treasurer John Tognino, Member Board of Directors John Walsh Associate Director of Field Organization Jerry Lewis National Chairman
        BEIER - Michael. Dearest Mike, if a person's life is measured by the love and respect of family and friends then once again, as with everything, you showed there are no boundaries. Proving substance is a much better indicator than longevity. You still and always will remain in our hearts and on our minds. We love you, now and always. We miss you already. Even you couldn't comprehend how much we counted on you for your strength and courage in our daily lives. Theresa, Dustin and Carly, our thoughts and love are with you in this difficult time. You have our deepest sympathy. Also know that we will always be there as you have become an important part of our family. We love you also. All our love. Gregg and Kim
        BEIER-Michael. On April 25, 2003. One day when they find a cure for this dreaded disease we will have people like you to thank for it. You will be missed. Love, Billy and Chynna
      