
        BENNACK - Luella. Mrs. Frank (Luella) Bennack, age 67, of San Antonio and their ranch in Texas Hill Country, died Thursday, April 17, 2003. Luella and Frank resided in San Antonio until 1975, when they moved to the New York area and Connecticut. In recent years they returned to San Antonio and their Hill Country ranch. She was preceded in death by her son, Arthur Jeffrey Bennack, who died at birth in 1956. Survivors: husband, Frank A. Bennack Jr. of San Antonio and New York City; daughters, Shelley Bennack McCullough and her husband Robert, Dr. Laura Bennack and her husband Ron Peterson, Diane Bennack Sacchetti and her husband John, all of San Antonio, Cynthia Hinson and her husband Eric, Monroe, NC, Julie Bennack, New York City; grandchildren, Brian and Lacey Wulfe, Justin and Jennifer Peterson, Danielle, Nathan, Adam and Mae Hinson, Benjamin Sacchetti, and Connally and Beverly McCullough; sister, Annabelle Leyendecker and her husband Victor; brother, Gary Smith and his wife Joanie, all of San Antonio; sister, Linda Smith, Dallas, TX; numerous nieces and nephews. The family will receive friends Monday evening from 7 PM until 9 PM, at Porter Loring. Mass Tuesday, 12 noon, St. Peter Prince of the Apostles Catholic Church, Rev. Msgr. Liam Brosnan, Celebrant. Interment in Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery. Those who desire may send memorial contributions to the United Cerebral Palsy of New York City, 80 Maiden Lane, New York City, New York, 10038, or the San Antonio Youth Literacy, 700 N. St. Mary's St., Suite 210, San Antonio, TX 78205. The family invites you to leave a message or memory at www.porterloring.com by selecting Visitation and Services. Select Sign Guestbook at the bottom of the individual Memorial. For information, Porter Loring Mortuary, 210-227-8221.
        BENNACK-Luella M. NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital mourns the passing of our dear friend, Luella M. Bennack, beloved wife of our esteemed Trustee and Vice Chairman, Frank A. Bennack, Jr. Warm, charming, and generous, Mrs. Bennack gave her time and devotion to numerous charitable causes, and educational and health institutions such as ours. The consummate wife, mother and grandmother, she will be greatly missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to her family. Dr. Herbert Pardes President and CEO John J. Mack Chairman of the Board of Trustees Charlotte Ford Vice Chairman Peter A. Georgescu Vice Chairman Jerry I. Speyer Vice Chairman NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        BENNACK-Luella M. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Luella Bennack, wife of managing director, Frank A. Bennack Jr. For many years, Luella, along with her beloved husband Frank, was a warm and welcome presence in our House on opening night and at our annual On Stage dinner. We are deeply saddened by this sudden loss and extend our heartfelt condolences to Frank, their children, Shelley Bennack McCullough, Dr Laura Bennack, Diane Bennack Sacchetti, Cynthia Hinson and Julie Bennack, and to the entire family. Beverly Sills, Chairman of the Board Mrs. Ezra K. Zilkha, Vice Chairman of the Board Paul M. Montrone, President William C. Morris, Chairman, Executive Committee Joseph Volpe, General Manager
        BENNACK - Luella. The Museum of Television & Radio, its Board of Trustees and its staff mourn the loss of Luella Bennack, devoted wife of our Board Chairman Frank A. Bennack Jr. She will be deeply missed by all of us who came to know her through her warm and gracious presence at Museum meetings and events. Her support of Frank's unstinting leadership of the Museum was much appreciated by each of us. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Frank and the entire Bennack family. Robert M. Batscha, President Gordon Crawford Gustave M. Hauser Leo J. Hindrey, Jr. Mel Karmazin Marlo Thomas Vice Chairs
        BENNACK - Luella. The Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center greatly mourn the passing of Luella M. Bennack. Our thoughts and prayers are with her husband, Frank A. Bennack Jr., an esteemed member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to her family and many friends. Bruce Crawford, Chairman Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
      