
        LEADER-Sylvia Z., 89. Beloved mother of Jonathan and Dina Leader, wife of the late Milton R. Leader, and grandmother of Jessica, Amanda, Lyuba, and Marc, died peacefully at home on April 4, 2003. Sylvia Leader was a graduate of The Fieldston School, class of 1932, and of Barnard College, where she majored in French literature. She subsequently worked as a book buyer at Macy's and was an early writer of children's radio shows at WQXR. She also sang in the chorus of the predecessor company of the New York City Opera. Sylvia Leader was a woman of great aesthetic taste, who always enjoyed doing things well. She was an early collector of Abstract Expressionist painting and went to the studios of Paul Georges, Al Held, George Segal, and many others, where she purchased their works. She was deeply committed to Judaism and spent much time helping those who were less fortunate than herself. Her wonderful imagination and flair will always be remembered by her family. She will be greatly missed. Jonathan and Dina Leader
        LEADER-Sylvia Z. With profound sorrow the officers, Board of Directors and membership of The Council of Jewish Organizations of Flatbush join the Leader Family in mourning for the loss of their beloved mother, grandmother, and mother-in-law Sylvia Z. Leader a women of valor and virtue. We express our sincere condolences to our dear friends Mr. and Mrs. Jonathan Leader. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Israel Goldberg, President Rabbi Aron Heineman Chairman of the Board Rabbi Yechezkel Pikus Executive Director Leon Goldenberg, Chairman Exec Committee
        LEADER-Sylvia Z. The staff and families of Project Empowerment, generously funded by the Robin Hood Foundation, extend their condolences to Jonathan and Dina Leader on the passing of their mother. The Leader Family has with uncommon generosity of time and spirit helped us cope with the enormous tragedy of September 11, 2001. We share deeply in their loss.
        LEADER-Sylvia Z. The Jewish Community Relations Council mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our esteemed past board member Jonathan Leader and mother-in-law of current board member Dina. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ezra G. Levin, President Michael S. Miller, Executive VP
      