
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Board of Trustees of the Intrepid Museum Foundation mourns our Chairman and CEO, M. Anthony Fisher, and his wife Anne. Mr. Fisher was our leader and our inspiration, and dedicated himself wholeheartedly to the mission of Intrepid, and to serving the men and women of the Armed Forces and their families. Mr. Fisher was a leader in many ways: in business, in philanthropy, and as a beloved father. His life touched thousands of people, and we have all suffered a great loss. Our condolences to Tony and Anne's five children, and the entire Fisher family, is in our prayers. William Baker, James D. Bishop, Denis A. Bovin, James Carrier, Max Chapman, Philip W. Cyburt, Peter M. Dawkins, Charles de Gunzburg, Martin Edelman, Steven Fisher, Kenneth Fisher, Donald Gardner, Stanley Hubbard, Kent L. Karosen, James G. Kennedy, Howard Lutnick, Tex McCrary, Bruce E. Mosler, James L. Nederlander, Steven Roth, Thomas F. Secunda, Mathis Shinnick, Stephen B. Siegel, Barry Sloane, Martin R. Steele, Robert Stelben, Michael Stern, Dennis Swanson, Tom L. Tyrrell Jr., Barbara Walters, Bill White, Dave H. Williams, Arthur Wilson
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Fisher House Foundation expresses our deepest condolences to the Fisher Family on the loss of our Vice Chairman, M. Anthony Fisher, and his wife Anne. Tony was committed to serving the Armed Forces and their families, through the Fisher House and other efforts. He will be greatly missed. Our condolences to their children and the Fisher family. Stanley R. Arthur, Paul W. Bucha, Gerry Byrne, Michael P. C. Carns, Patricia Courter, Robert Dryfoos, John A. Dubia, Martin Edelman, John N. Faigle, Kenneth Fisher, Arnold Fisher, Audrey Fisher, Janet Grampp, Charles Krulak, John W. Lowe, Robert Marks, Tex McCrary, Jack Nickert, Lois B. Pope, Julie Quinn, John M. Shalikashvili, Martin R. Steele, Michael Stern, Gordon R. Sullivan, Carl Vuono, Gail West, Bill White, Vivian Wilson
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research Foundation and the Michael Stern Center for Parkinson's Research Foundation express our deepest condolences on the loss of M. Anthony Fisher and Anne Fisher. Tony was an outstanding business leader, a noted philanthropist and a great friend. He will be deeply missed. Michael Stern
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. I am deeply saddened at the loss of my leader, my mentor and my friend, Tony Fisher and his wife Anne. Tony was a great American and a true leader, and taught me a very great deal. My prayers are with his children and with the entire Fisher family. Tony, I will miss you. Bill White
      