
        NETTER-Kurt Fred. Died unexpectedly, April 26th, after complications from surgery. He leaves behind his devoted, adoring wife of 60 years Alice, his sister, Ilse Nelson, his children Nadine and Peter Levy, Susan and Ronald Netter and Alfred Netter and Judith Marks. He had five grandchildren, whom he adored, Sarah and her husband Andy Boone, Kate, Rebecca, Gus and Ben. He loved his music and his sports especially skiing with his grandchildren behind him. He had a real zest for life, his charities and his many long term friends. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Selfhelp Community Services, 520 Eighth Avenue, NYC 10018, would be welcome. Funeral service will be Monday, April 28th, at 2 PM, at Chapel in the Woods, Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Plains.
        NETTER-Kurt F. The Board of Directors and staff of Selfhelp Community Services, Inc. are profoundly saddened by the loss of a dear friend and dedicated member of the Board. A former President and current Co-Chairman of the Board, Mr. Netter helped lead Selfhelp for more than 50 years, drawing on his business and financial expertise to preside over Selfhelp's most dramatic periods of growth in our senior service, housing, home care, and Nazi victim service programs. He will be especially remembered for his compassionate concern and efforts on behalf of elderly victims of Nazi persecution which enabled Selfhelp to assist thousands of Holocaust survivors. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Alice, his children Nadine, Ron, and Fred, and the entire Netter family. He will be greatly missed.
        NETTER-Kurt F. The Board of Directors of United Help joins their sister agency Selfhelp Community Services, Inc. in mourning the passing of a dedicated member of both boards whose leadership and advocacy on behalf of Holocaust survivors and victims of Nazi persecution will be deeply missed. Currently, Vice President of United Health, Mr. Netter's commitment to the Nazi victim community inspired everyone who worked with him. To his wife, Alice, his family, and his many friends, we express our heartfelt sympathy.
        NETTER-Kurt Fred. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Kurt Fred Netter. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Alice and his entire family. James Speiser, President Monty Davis, Secretary
      