
        LIEBRADER-Myron Lawrence, Passed away Friday, January 31, 2003, age 73, after intrepid battle with leukemia. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y. Former resident of Sunnyside and Bayside, Queens. Son of Sol and Estelle Liebrader, beloved husband of 13 years to the late Barbara Liebrader. Survived by his son Andrew, daughter Donna, sister-in-law Ginny, brother-in-law Rick, and friend/companion Patricia Kobetts. His father, Sol, was a C.P.A. and his mother Estelle worked in real estate and for an attorney, named Lawrence Brinn. His parents also owned two candy stores in Queens. After his wife passed away in 1976, Myron Liebrader served as two parents to Andrew and Donna since Andrew was eleven yrs. old and Donna was eight. His family moved to Sunnyside from Brooklyn when he was eight years old. He graduated from Brooklyn Tech. H.S. He earned a B.A. Economics and M.A. Social Studies from N.Y.U. He also minored in math while in college. He spent two years in the Coast Guard during the Korean War. He also earned all the credits for a doctorate although never completing his dissertation. ABD, (All But Dissertation). Myron Liebrader started teaching social studies at Grover Cleveland H.S. in Ridgewood, Queens, N.Y. in 1954. His career at Cleveland lasted 47 years, which is a record for the most years spent by one person in the same high school building in the history of the N.Y.C. School System. He became Cleveland's principal in 1971 and remained in that position for 30 yrs. before retiring in 2001 as the most senior high school principal in the N.Y.C. School System. More teachers working under his direction went on to become supervisors and principals than any other principal in the history of the school system. He also taught a course at Q.C.C. at night for 37 years to prepare school secretaries for the N.Y.C. school system. Thank you, Dad, for teaching us to be decisive, not to look back too much, and to get the most out of life that we could get. Thanks also for teaching us to bring things to a closure and for being the exemplary man that you were. Contributions, in his memory, can be made to the Leukemia Fund, L.I.J. Medical Center, 270-05 76th Ave., New Hyde Park, N.Y. 11040 Attn: Dr. Kanti Rai.
      