
        MARKS-Edwin Saul. On April 24, 2003 at home surrounded by Nancy, his childhood sweetheart and loving wife of 53 years and his daughters, Carolyn Marks Blackwood, Linda Marks Katz and Constance Marks Miller; his sons-in-law, Greg Quinn, Richard Katz and James Miller. Loving grandfather of his 3 grandchildren, Gabriel, Laura and Sophia. He is survived by his sister Marjorie Boas Levins, his brother-in-law Jack Levins and his childhood friend and brother - in - law Jerome Abeles and Betsy McGrathAbeles. His generosity, sense of humor and kindness in word and deed will always be remembered by those who knew him. Services will be held Monday, April 28 at 11 AM at Temple Beth El, 5 Old Mill Road in Great Neck. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to the BoasMarks Biomedical Science Research Center at North Shore-Long Island Jewish Hospital or to the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.
        MARKS-Edwin S. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Edwin Marks who was dedicated to UJA-Federation and our network of beneficiary agencies. Among his many contributions, he will be remembered for his commitment to the Edith and Carl Marks Jewish Community House of Bensonhurst, a UJA-Federation beneficiary agency named in memory of his parents. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mr. Marks's wife, Nancy; to his children, Constance Marks, Carolyn Marks Blackwood and Linda Katz; to his sister, Marjorie M. Boas Levins; and to his entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay Exec VP & CEO
        MARKS - Edwin. The trustees, faculty and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are deeply saddened at the passing of Edwin Marks. Mr. Marks was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Laboratory since 1992, was elected vice chairman in 1998 and has since served on its Executive Committee. His vision, leadership and keen business acumen were valued by everyone at Cold Spring Harbor. He will be greatly missed. To his wife, Nancy, his family and his many friends, we express our deepest sympathy. William R. Miller, Chairman Bruce Stillman, Director & Chief Executive Officer James D. Watson, President W. Dillaway Ayres, Chief Operating Officer
        MARKS-Edwin S. The entire Juilliard community is saddened by the death of Edwin S. Marks, husband of esteemed Trustee Nancy Marks. Through his vigorous and generous support and advocacy for the arts, Edwin Marks helped make the world more welcoming to the young men and women whom Juilliard prepares for careers as actors, dancers and musicians. We express our deep condolences to Nancy and her family. The Trustees, faculty, students and staff of The Juilliard School
        MARKS-Edwin Saul. The Trustees, Officers and Staff of the Educational Alliance mourn the passing of Edwin Saul Marks, beloved father of Constance A. Marks, our devoted Trustee. Edwin Marks, like his daughter, was a quiet and modest person. Both have been major supporters of the Alliance's substance abuse treatment program. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Constance and to the entire Marks family. Richard A. Cantor, President Robin Bernstein, Exec. Dir.
        MARKS-Edwin A. North Shore Child and Family Guidance Center mourns the loss of Edwin A. Marks, husband of our esteemed Board member Nancy. Edwin was an extraordinary supporter of children and families. He made a difference in their lives. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Nancy and his daughters. Marion Levine, Exec. Dir. Rochelle Lipton, President North Shore Child and Family Guidance Center
        MARKS-Edwin. The Edith and Carl Marks Jewish Community House of Bensonhurst mourns the loss of Edwin Marks and extends deepest sympathy to his wife Nancy and to the Marks and Boas families. David P. Berkowitz, Board President Howard Wasserman, Executive Vice President Pearl Lerner Kane, Director of Development
        MARKS-Edwin S. Co-founder and Honorary Chairman of our Board. You worked so hard and gave so much on our behalf. We shall miss you dearly and extend our sincere condolences to Nancy and her family. Arthur M. Spiro, Chairman Nicholas Chiorazzi, M.D., Director and Chief Executive Officer, North Shore-Long Island Jewish Research Institute
        MARKS-Edwin. The Board of Trustees and staff of Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum, mourn the passing of Edwin Marks, husband of esteemed Trustee and ViceChair, Nancy Marks. We express our deep condolences to the Marks family. Paul Warwick Thompson Director Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum
        MARKS-Edwin S. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed, generous, long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        MARKS-Edwin S. I will miss the time spent together at the Research Center and CSH. Heartfelt condolences to Nancy, Margie and your families. Arthur M. Spiro
      