
        BEIER-Michael P. The Department of Neurology and the Eleanor and Lou Gehrig MDA/ALS Research Center at Columbia University Health Sciences mourn the passing of Michael Beier. He was a rare individual who faced his illness and increasing disability with resolve and determination, and served as an example to us all. He worked tirelessly to support ALS research, and chaired the ''MDA Wings Over Wall Street'' Gala to increase research leading to a cure. In honor of his remarkable efforts, we were proud to create ''The Michael Beier/ MDA Wings Over Wall Street Research Fund'' at Columbia University in December 2002. As national vice president of MDA, Mike was involved in many organizations for ALS, and he was an energetic campaigner to raise public awareness and funding for ALS research. We extend our deepest sympathy to Michael's family. Timothy A. Pedley, M.D. Chairman of the Department of Neurology Serge Przedborski, M.D. and Hiroshi Mitsumoto, M.D. Co-Directors of the Eleanor and Lou Gehrig MDA/ALS Research Center Columbia University Health Sciences
        BEIER-Michael P. The faculty, staff, and students of Columbia University Health Sciences mourn the loss of a dear friend, Michael P. Beier, who passed away from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) on Friday, April 25. When he was diagnosed with ALS in 2000, he channeled his energies into fund-raising for research and awareness. He initiated the ''MDA Wings Over Wall Street'' gala that raised more than $1 million for ALS research at the Columbia University Department of Neurology. In recognition of his tireless efforts, Columbia University named the ''Michael Beier/MDA Wings Over Wall Street Research Fund'' in December 2002. Our heartfelt sympathies go out to his wife, Theresa, his children Carly, age 6, and Dustin, age 4, his parents, siblings, and friends. He was an extraordinary spirit and a generous man. Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D. Executive Vice President for Health & Biomedical Sciences Dean, Faculties of Medicine and Health Sciences, Columbia University
      