
        HOUGHTON-Laura Richardson, 102, died quietly April 9, 2003, at her home in Corning, NY. Wife of Amory Houghton, former Chairman of Corning Glass Works and American Ambassador to France under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mrs. Houghton was born in Providence, RI. A graduate of Milton Academy in Milton, MA, she moved to Corning with her husband in 1921. Their marriage lasted six months shy of sixty years. In the late 1950's, The Herald Tribune bestowed the name ''L'Ambassadrice Souriante'' (the Smiling Ambassadress) to Mrs. Houghton. The paper also referred to her as ''the undisputed First Lady of the Diplomatic Corps and of the American Colony in Paris.'' ''I would say she was the most gracious woman I ever knew,'' said Thomas Buechner, former Director of the Brooklyn Museum of Art and the Corning Museum of Glass. She served on the Boards of national institutions such as the Girl Scouts of America, Project Hope and Hobart and William Smith College; and numerous local charities. She received two Honorary Degrees. Once asked to become President of the Girl Scouts of America, she declined citing the need to be near her family. Several years later, she accepted the Vice-Chairmanship. ''She possessed deep personal beliefs which brooked no shoddy behavior,'' said her son, Congressman Amory Houghton, Jr. (R-NY). ''She had the endearing capacity for laughter in happy times, contagious; in times of stress, lightening the load.'' ''When someone of her stature passes away, we have to say a generation is going,'' said Thomas P. Dimitroff, a noted Corning historian. ''She was a lady in the best sense of the word.'' Mrs. Houghton is survived by four children: Elizabeth H. Weinberg, Congressman Amory Houghton, Jr., James R. Houghton, Chairman and CEO of Corning Inc., and the Reverend Alanson R. Houghton II, 18 grandchildren, and 32 great-grandchildren. She was predeceased by daughter, Laura H. Beer, on September 22, 2000. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, April 16 at 10AM at Christ Episcopal Church in Corning, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made in memory of Mrs. Houghton to: Girl Scouts-Seven Lakes Council, Inc., 300 Route 318, Phelps, NY 14532-9315.
      