
        STEIN-Bernard Z. On April 15, 2003 in his 90th year, of complications from prostate cancer. Loving husband of Marion, father of Ellen (Howard) and Rob (Mara), grandfather of Andrew (Stephanie), David, Laura, Reyna and Bart. He was loved by family and friends, and his warmth and his smile will be deeply missed by all. Funeral services private. Because he was active in many philanthropic activities, the family requests in lieu of flowers contributions to the charity of your choice.
        STEIN - Bernard. Purchase College, the Purchase College Foundation and Board of the Friends of the Neuberger Museum of Art mourn the passing of their cherished friend and major benefactor, Bernard Stein. Bernard Stein gave generously of his time and financial support to the students and faculty at Purchase College for over two decades. His commitment to students through scholarship support encouraged generations of students to complete their undergraduate studies. Bernard Stein was devoted to the Neuberger Museum of Art through his long-time friendship with the Museum's founding patron, Roy R. Neuberger. We will miss the gentleness and effervescence of this great person. We offer Marion, Bernard's beloved wife, and Bernard's family our heartfelt condolences. Thomas J. Schwarz, President, Purchase College Margaret Sullivan, Vice President for External Affairs and Development Emily Grant, Chair, Purchase College Foundation Lucinda Gedeon, Director Neuberger Museum of Art
        STEIN-Bernard. The Board of Trustees, Management and Staff of The Jewish Home & Hospital Lifecare System mourn the passing of our devoted friend and loving husband of our Life Trustee, Marion Stein. A mainstay of our Westchester/Sarah Neuman Center, we will miss his sage counsel. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his beloved Marion, children and grandchildren. Fred M. Lowenfels Chairman of the Board Amy K. Pollinger, Chair Sarah Neuman Center Audrey S. Weiner, DSW President & CEO
        STEIN-Bernard. With great sadness the Board of Directors and staff of The JCC of Mid-Westchester offers condolences on the passing of Bernard Stein, father of Ellen Lazarus, former Chairman of the Board and President of The JCC, and husband of Marion and their families. Bernie was a great supporter and benefactor to The JCC. We will all miss him greatly.
        STEIN-Bernard. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Bernard Stein, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Alex C. Solowey, President
      