
        BOKER-John, Jr., 90, worldrenowned philatelist, key figure in WWII military intelligence history, and manufacturer of specialty cutlery, including the widely collected ''Boker'' pocketknife, died April 12 at his home in Scarsdale, NY. Recognized by the Collector's Club as the foremost philatelist of the latter half of the 20th Century, specializing in the fields of German States and U.S. Locals and U.S. Pre-cancels, John Boker has earned many of the field's highest awards, including the Smithsonian Institution's Lifetime Achievement Award (2002), the Robson Lowe Memorial Medal (2000), the Philatelic Foundation's ''Meritorious Service'' Medal, the Luff Award, the Berlin Philatelic Club's Lindenberg Medal (1981), the Collector's Club Medal (1970), the Lichtenstein Award (1967). and the Tilleard Medal (1967). He was a member ''Honoris Causa'' of the International Jury at CAPEX (1978). Chairman of the Expert Committee of the Philatelic Foundation, Chairman of the special Anphilex Invitational Exhibition of Classic Stamps (1971), Signer of the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists (1964), member of the International Juries since 1956, President of the Pre-cancel Stamp Society, President of the New York Pre-cancel Club, and twenty-five year member and former President and Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Collector's Club of New York. Boker traces his involvement in precancels back to age 10 when he came into possession of a box of stamps that were primarily New York and New Jersey Precancels. Being, at the time, unable to afford collecting both states, he opted to concentrate on NY and so began what was ultimately to become the finest aggregation of precancels ever put together in one album of any description. John Boker, a U.S. infantry Major and recipient of the Bronze Star, played a significant role working with the American and British Intelligence Service during, and particularly at the close of, World War II. He is best known for his work in interrogation and early ''Cold-War'' activities. Elected in 1990 to the ''Hall of Fame of Military Intelligence Service,'' Boker concluded his involvement with U.S. Intelligence as a post-War consultant for the newly established CIA. His contributions to World War II military intelligence history is documented in a number of books on the subject, notably ''The Service: The Memoirs of General Reinhard Gehlen,'' and Mary Ellen Reese's ''General Reinhard Gehlen: The CIA Connection,'' a dramatic account of the close connections between the chief of German Intelligence and U.S. spy units after World War II. Well-known by antique dealers and knife collectors, Boker, or ''Treebrand,'' superior quality pocketknives are foremost among the various types of cutlery and hand tools manufactured by H. Boker & Co. (Est. 1837) until the merger of the company with New Britain Machine in 1965. Boker's extensive business career also included his role as Director of Burnham Corporation from 1972 to 1988, Director and Vice President of the Nelson Fund Securities Company from 1958 to 1975, and Director of New Britain Machine from 1965 until its merger into Litton Industries in 1968. John Boker was born in 1913 in New York City, and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Yale University in 1933. He is predeceased by his wife of 52 years, Polly Lupie Boker, and is survived by his two daughters, Pamela Boker and Joan Shisler, and six grandchildren.
      