
        KRAMER-Stephen A. The extended family of friends, supporters and dependents of Colel Chabad - Lubavitch mourn the untimely passing of our dear friend and longtime supporter, Steve (Shlomo Aaron) Kramer, a dynamic leader who embraced the spectrum of worthy Jewish causes including many Chabad institutions. Steve gave encouragement and brought joy to all who knew him. He was full of love for his family, friends, the Torah, the Jewish people and the Amighty. He was a powerful advocate for the Jewish People and for Israel, and was a linchpin of Colel Chabad, which honored him with its Founders Award for his many years of dedicated work. Though his life was too short, he leaves a major moral legacy and touched the lives of many. His passing is a loss for the entire Jewish community especially in New York and Israel. Our hearts go out to his beloved wife, Dale Wolkind Kramer, his dear parents Harry and Jean Kramer, his daughters Helena and Penney and granddaughter Rachel who he loved so dearly. May the L-rd comfort you amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Sholom Duchman Director
        KRAMER-Stephen A. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Stephen A. Kramer, beloved husband of Dale, and a cherished friend who worked tirelessly on behalf of UJAFederation. Steve gave his full support to numerous Jewish and humanitarian causes. He served on the Board of Directors of UJA-Federation; was board chair of the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds; led several missions to Israel; was active in the Long Island Campaign; and as division chair for many years, was a guiding force behind the growth of UJA-Federation's Life Insurance Division. Steve's wife, Dale, has been deeply committed to our Metropolitan, and our Business and Professional Women's Campaigns. We extend our sincerest sympathies to Dale; to his children, Helene and her husband, Paul; to Penney and her husband, Joe; to his granddaughter, Rachel; and to the entire Kramer family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        KRAMER-Stephen A. We are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our former President, Stephen Kramer. Mr. Kramer was a passionate & compassionate supporter of the Jewish people who left us a legacy of visionary leadership. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Philip Schatten, Pres. Chaim Lauer, Exec. VP Avrom I. Doft, Chair of Bd
        KRAMER-Stephen A. We are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Stephen A. Kramer. Our firm and the entire life insurance industry has lost a true professional. The world has lost a very generous and caring person. Our heartfelt condolences go to his wife Dale, his parents, children, grandchild and entire family. Howard J. Blatt, President Rampart America, LLC
        KRAMER-Stephen. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club records the passing of Stephen Kramer, an esteemed member of our Club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Dale, and to the entire family. Robert Fortunoff, President Roger Blumencranz, Secy
        KRAMER-Stephen. We are deeply saddened at the unexpected passing of Steve. Wise, charitable and pillar for his family, friends and the Jewish community. He will be sorely missed. Our prayers and thoughts are with Dale, Penny, Helene and the entire Kramer family. Rest gently dear friend, we love you. Marcy and Steve
        KRAMER-Stephen A. (SAK) One of a kind. Our expert on Judaism, Israel, Golf, Horses and Cards. A real ''mensch''. Our hearts and love go out to Dale and the entire family. You are missed! Arlene and Jeff April and Schnury
        KRAMER-Stephen A. In loving memory of Stephen Kramer, one of our oldest and dearest friends, to whom we owe so much. Love, Enid, Alexander and Ruth Fisher Abby and David Goldstein Leigh and Avi Savar
        KRAMER-Stephen. We extend our deepest love and feelings to Dale and the children on the untimely passing of our beloved Stephen. He meant so much to us. All the Zeke's will miss him. The Altheim Family
        KRAMER-Stephen. An unforgettable man - a mensch-we will miss you. Seymour, Cathy, Aaron, Samuel, Benjamin and Natalie Zises
      