
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. At the age of 85 on April 16, 2003. Peacefully at his home with his loving family. Chairman of the LeFrak Organization, one of the largest private building firms in the world. He is survived by his loving wife Ethel Stone LeFrak, devoted and loving children Denise LeFrak Calicchio, Richard LeFrak, Francine LeFrak Friedberg and Jacqueline LeFrak Kosinski. His cherished grandchildren Harrison, James, Allison, Jennifer and Dylan. Great grandchildren Cameron and Julia and the entire LeFrak family. Services Friday, April 18, 11:00 AM at Temple Emanu-El Fifth Avenue at 65 St. In lieu of flowers contributions in Samel J. LeFrak's name may be made to the Department of Rehabilition Medicine, Mt Sinai School of Medicine, 1 Gustave Levy Pl, Box 1049, New York, New York 10029.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The LeFrak Organization mourns with deep sorrow the death of our esteemed, beloved and respected chairman. To his wife Ethel, son Richard, daughters Denise, Francine and Jacqueline, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and the entire LeFrak family we extend heartfelt condolences. His tireless and selfless service to community, family and businesses were testaments to his ability, his concern for fellow man and his dedication to excellence. Teacher, builder, visionary, he had an instinct for what was worthy and good. We will miss his strength, determination and leadership. He was a giant of a man-warm and compassionate-who lived a life devoted to others. His concrete accomplishments were many. He created scores of buildings, vast communities, his ''total living'' concepts were imitated throughout the United States and the world. His influence on us was enormous. His achievements and spirit will live on forever and continue to be an inspiration to us all. The Officers and Staff of the LeFrak Organization
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York mourns the passing of our cherished and devoted member Samuel J. LeFrak. Our tradition sees him as a man ''who said and who did, who spoke and who fulfilled.'' New York knew and loved him as a creative visionary. We at Temple Emanu-El understood and appreciated his spiritual nature and his commitment to our heritage. The soul of Samuel J. LeFrak thrilled at being a proud and loyal son of his people. When we worshiped with him, we were of one mind and spirit. To Ethel, his beloved wife of 60 years and his entire family, we extend our deepest sympathies. May his memory and his legacy endure as an eternal blessing. Dr. David M. Posner, Sr Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel Sr Rabbi Emeritus Robert A. Bernhard President Herbert C. Bernard Secretary
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Sam was a beloved and respected friend of my family for over 50 years. His vision, imagination, judgement and wisdom leave an indelible mark on our entire community. As for me, this is an irreparable loss. I always thought of Sam as part of my family. From his quoting Horace Greeley ''Go west young man'' to his ''I had a dream last night'' comments often repeated, who will ever forget Sam. I remember Sam at the anniversary party at The Museum of Natural History, LeFrak City, Queens Boulevard, Battery Park City, 40 West and of course his magnificent Newport. A man like none other. This is a great loss to us all. My most sincere sympathy to Ethel, Richard, Francine, Denise and Jacqui. I will never forget Sam. Charles R. Borrok
        LeFRAK - Samuel. The Trustees, Faculty, and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Samuel LeFrak, an outstanding philanthopist, and civic leader. Samuel LeFrak's personal generosity and the generosity of the LeFrak family included support for cardiac care, research and other programs. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Ethel, his son Richard, daughters Denise, Francine and Jacqueline and the entire LeFrak family. Peter W. May, Chairman The Mount Sinai Medical Center Kenneth L. Davis, MD, Pres. and CEO, The Mount Sinai Medical Center and Dean, Mount Sinai School of Medicine Larry H. Hollier, MD, Pres The Mount Sinai Hospital
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The President of Queens College and the Trustees of the Queens College Foundation mourn the passing and celebrate the life of Samuel J. LeFrak, a Trustee and good friend of the college. The recipient of an honorary degree from Queens College for his service to the community and especially to our students, he will be remembered for the many scholarships he supported and for the beautiful concert hall on our campus that bears his name. James L. Muyskens President Queens College Richard D. Goldstein Chairman Queens College Foundation
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved Member, Samuel J. LeFrak. A Member of the Friars Club for over 35 years, he was fierce in his dedication to excellence and continued support of humanitarian causes. We are honored and proud to have been touched by this master builder and urban visionary. Services will be held at Temple Emanu-El, 1 E. 65 St, Friday, April 18 at 11 AM. Alan King, Abbot Freddy Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The officers and staff of Miller Advertising Agency Inc. mourn the passing of their esteemed client, colleague, mentor, and dear friend. Sam LeFrak was one of a kind, an innovator, dreamer, planner and visionary who turned his ideas into reality. It was a privilege to know him and to serve him for almost half a century. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife Ethel, his son Richard, grandsons Harrison and Jamie and to the entire LeFrak family. Miller Advertising Agency Robert Miller, President Leonard J. Miller, Chairman
        LeFRAK-Samuel. New York City and the real estate industry has lost a giant of a man. Sam and the dynamic organization created by him was responsible for the building and reshaping of our metropolis. His dynamic leadership will be greatly missed. To Ethel, Richard and the entire LeFrak family, we offer our deepest condolences. He was a rare and special gentleman. Jerome Belson, President Michael Kerr, Co-Chair Arnold Sollar, Co-Chair Nicholas LaPorte, Jr. Executive Director Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Officers and Directors of the Friars Foundation deeply mourn the loss of their beloved former recipient of their annual Applause Award, Samuel J. LeFrak. He was fierce in his dedication to excellence and continued support of humanitarian causes. We are honored and proud to have been touched by this unique individual. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Leo Greenland, Chairman of the Board Cy Leslie, President
        LeFRAK-Samuel. With affection and profound saddness, the Giffuni family mourns the death of a dear friend, Sam LeFrak. Our families have shared generations of friendship and many happy, milestone events. We will always smile when we remember Sam's enthusiasm, energy, thoughtfulness and wisdom, and especially his love for his family. Our hearts are with Ethel, and Sam's adored children and grandchildren. Alice, V.Q., Nini and JoAnn Wellner, and families
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Board of Governors, members and staff of the Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of one of the most distinguished and innovative members of our industry, Samuel J. LeFrak. We extend our deepest condolences to his son Richard, a member of our Board of Governors and to the entire LeFrak family. Burton P. Resnick, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. ''Tiger,'' friend, dear sweet man, your longer-than-life life ended, know again my respect and gratitude. You stood by me in 1978, sheltered our apartments in your management, and by seeking me for your staff, strengthened my resolve. You said we ''built for midgets''-we are all midgets compared with you. To Ethel, your children and their children, the Maidmans send their condolences. Richard and Gail Maidman
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. We mourn the loss of our dearest friend Sam, who was so much a part of our lives for over 50 years, a brilliant, tireless and unique individual whose wisdom, spirit and friendship will be sorely missed. Our hearts and love go out to Ethel, Richard, Denise, Francine, Jackie and their families. The Modell Famly Shelby, Bill, Leslie, Shawn, Mitchell, Robin and Abby
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. To our dear daughter-in-law, sisterin-law and aunt, Francine LeFrak-Friedberg and family, your father, Sam, led an incredible and fruitful life. His energy and enthusiasm never wavered. May his memory and legacy be a blessing. Love, Gertrude Friedberg, Georgina, Martin, Douglas and Sarah Glazer
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Our sincerest condolences to John and Denise and the entire LeFrak family on the passing of Samuel J. LeFrak, a dear father and father-in-law. Our dear friend Sam will be missed by all those whose lives he touched and will never be forgotten. Sincerely, The Monday Nighters Fred Strauss, Chairman
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Our sincerest condolences to Ethel, Denise, Richard, Francine, Jacqueline and the entire LeFrak family on the passing of your beloved husband and father, an inspiration to all who knew him and loved him. We know how much he will be missed but never forgotten. Sincerely, The Calicchio Family
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of Samuel, father of our esteemed member and Board member, Richard S. LeFrak. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Ethel, his children Richard, Denice, Jacqueline, Francine and his grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Robert E. Morrow, President Harvey L. Radler, Secretary
        LeFRAK-Samuel. Our hearts are saddened by the loss of this outstanding and wonderful person. He was an inspired visionary leader, a loving husband to Ethel and an outstanding father and grandfather. You will never be forgotten. Irene and Manny Schaeffer Joan and Donald Schaeffer And all the Schaeffer Family
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Sam has been and will continue to be an inspiration to me. His passion, work ethic and leadership was unprecedented. As Alexander Hamilton said ''one day a great city will rise on the West Bank of the Hudson.'' Sam your vision created the Jersey waterfront. I will never forget you. Josh and Amy Kuriloff
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Mentor, friend, undisputed leader of the New York real estate industry for four decades and a great man. His monuments abound. He will be deeply missed. To all the members of the LeFrak family, we extend our deepest condolences. Marilyn and Stanley Blumberg and Family
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. To Ethel, Richard, Karen, Harrison and James. My deepest sympathies. Sam was a mentor to me from the 1960's through the fulfillment of his Newport dream in the 21st Century. This is a terrible loss for me as I know it is for you and all who knew him. Edwin H. Cohen
        LeFRAK-Samuel. With great sadness and sense of loss, we extend our sincerest condolences to the LeFrak family and organization. We have lost a true friend, long standing business partner, visionary and great human being. His name and legacy will live on. UBS PaineWebber
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The partners and employees of Goldberg Weprin & Ustin LLP extend deep sorrow at the passing of our longtime friend and client, Samuel J. LeFrak. His word was a mighty sword, his hand a bond. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Board of Governors and the members of the Seawane Club, record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Samuel J. Lefrak. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Ethel and family. Ted Markson, President
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Our heartfelt sympathies go out to the loving family of the late Samuel Lefrak. We particularly extend our condolences to our good friend Richard, beloved son of Sam. Our thoughts are with you. Love, Pauline and Harvey Radler
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Olnick Organization notes with sorrow the passing of Samuel J. LeFrak, a valued friend and partner. Our sincerest condolences to Ethel, Richard, Denise, Francine and Jacqueline and their families. Richard S. Lane, President
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The entire Carey family mourns the passing of Sam LeFrak, a great New Yorker and a treasured friend. Our heartfelt condolences go out to the extended LeFrak family. Gov. Hugh L. Carey
        LeFRAK-Sam. The Silverman family mourns the death of our dear friend. 50 years of outstanding friendship. We offer our deepest sympathy to the entire LeFrak family. Allen, Ellie, Andrew and Alexander
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. I mourn the loss of a great man and builder, and good friend of my father, Fred. He will be missed. My heartfelt condolences to Richard and the entire family. Donald J. Trump
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. We express our deepest sympathy to Richard LeFrak and family. We will forever remember Sam's presence. From your friends at The AEGON Group
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. It is with great sadness that we mourn the loss of a dear family friend, Samuel J. LeFrak. Our condolences to his wife, Ethel, and his family. Kermit Bass and family
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Samuel LeFrak, and send condolences to his family.
        LeFRAK-Samuel. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, a giant in the real estate industry. His creativity, charisma, energy, and vision will be sorely missed. The Paul Milstein Family
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Dear Sam, you were loved, admired and revered by many, but by very few more than me. Rest peacefully in Heaven. Your loving son-in-law, John
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Expressing our deepest condolences to the LeFrak family on the loss of Samuel J. LeFrak. The Majewski family Jerome Aluminum Products
        LeFRAK-Samuel. The entire Yellowstone Hardware and Supply family mourns the loss of a true friend and extends deepest sympathy to the entire Lefrak family.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Your name and fame are written all across the New York skyline, but to me you were my special Dad. You will always be with me. Love, Denise
        LeFRAK-Sam. Remembering 44 years of service with a man of vision & benevolence. Arthur Klein, Executive VP (Ret.) LeFrak Organization
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. With love and deepest sympathy for your great loss. Our thoughts are with you. Sylvia & Al Ades
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. He built this city. J.R. Daly
      