
        FUCHSBERG-Abraham. Senior Partner of Fuchsberg & Fuchsberg, a New York City plaintiff's personal injury firm, passed away on April 15, 2003, at the age of 87. He was one of five siblings (including the late Honorable Jacob D. Fuchsberg, a former Court of Appeals Judge), all of whom had worked together at the firm at one time or another. Abraham served the firm as its Senior Partner for over 25 years. After graduating Magna Cum Laude at the College of the City of New York, Mr. Fuchsberg (pronounced Fyooks-berg) served his country in the U.S. Army and was made an instructor at the Philippine Institute of Armed Forces. After his service Abraham obtained his law degree from St. John's University (1950), when he then joined his brother Jacob in establishing the firm of Fuchsberg & Fuchsberg. The firm became nationally recognized for its representation of the injured, and was the first firm in the United States to ever obtain a million dollar verdict for a personal injury victim. Mr. Fuchsberg devoted his life to the preservation of victims' rights. He served as President of the American Trial Lawyers Civil Justice Foundation, President of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association and President of the Big Apple Pothole Corporation. He was an active member of the Board of Governors for the American Trial Lawyers Association for 35 years, and was selected as a Charter Member of Atla's Presidents Club in 1999. Mr. Fuchsberg was a Patron Founder of the Trial Lawyers for Public Justice. Abraham Fuchsberg was Editor-InChief of the Trial Lawyers Quarterly until 2002, having served in an editorial capacity since 1964. He is the author of ''Modern New York Discovery,'' ''New York Evidence'' and ''Poetic Justice,'' a book of his poetry and insights. He also wrote numerous articles for the New York Law Journal. Mr. Fuchsberg was Associate Editor of the National Trial Lawyer, New York, and a Contributing Editor for Medical Malpractice Law and Strategy. As a public speaker he has addressed tens of thousands of listeners. Through the Abraham Fuchsberg Family Foundation, Mr. Fuchsberg provided over a quarter century's support for consumers, the injured, the needy, and many Jewish philanthropies, including the United Jewish Appeal. Abraham Fuchsberg was widely considered a brilliant legal strategist, a tough negotiator and a tireless supporter of the underpriviliged. In his own verse: ''We do not toil for fatted calves, but for the have-nots, not the haves. We speak for the lost, the lame, the dying, All who come to us for justice crying. To raise up all who may be falling-That indeed is our proud calling.'' He is survived by his loving wife Shirley Fuchsberg, daughters Irene Minkoff and Rita Fuchsberg, his grandson Jonathan Minkoff, and his granddaughter Sarah Minkoff. A memorial service is being planned, the details of which will be announced on the website: www.thenewyorkfirm.com In lieu of flowers, friends are asked to make a tax deductable donation to the Abraham Fuchsberg Family Foundation, 100 Church St, Suite 1800, NY, NY 10007.
      