
        LEFRAK-Samuel J. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a cherished friend, who was one of the earliest members of our Society of Founders. As one of our nation's most influential builders, Mr. LeFrak was a pioneer in providing affordable housing for middle-income people. As a philanthropist, he generously contributed to medical research and education programs at our institution. To his wife, Ethel, who plays a leadership role in our National Women's Division; to his children, Denise, Richard, Francine and Jacqueline; and to the entire family, we offer our sincere condolences. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Women's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of the beloved husband of our dear friend and founding member, Ethel LeFrak. For five decades, Mrs. LeFrak has been one of the Division's most active and involved supporters as a member of our National Board and the Board of our New York Chapter. Her daughters, Denise Calicchio and Francine Friedberg, and her granddaughter, Allison Koffman, follow in this tradition of service. To all the members of the LeFrak family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. Linda Altman, President National Women's Division Albert Einstein College of Medicine Judy R. Rosenberg Chairwoman, Executive Committee
        LeFRAK-Samuel. The Menowitz and Penn families mourn the passing of our brother-in-law and uncle. A giant of the real estate industry and dynamic leader, who through his vision, dedication and energy forever changed the skyline of the metropolitan New York area, and brought affordable housing to so many. Our heartfelt sympathies go out to his lovely and devoted wife Ethel and his loving children Richard, Denise, Francine and Jacqueline and their families. He left a legacy we are all proud of. Harold Menowitz and the entire Menowitz and Penn Families
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. We deeply mourn the loss of our friend of more than 50 years, Sam LeFrak. Sam significantly altered the face of residential apartment housing in the 20th century. Equally important was his dedication to the enrichment of the arts and education. But paramount to these professional accomplishments was his intense devotion to his friends and family. We will never forget Sam LeFrak. Sheldon H. Solow Solow Building Company
        LeFRAK-Samuel. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Samuel LeFrak. This champion of middle-income housing was known for his generous philanthropy. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Ethel and the entire family. Larry Zicklin President Morris W. Offit Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. ''Tiger,'' friend, dear sweet man, your larger-than-life life ended, know again my respect and gratitude. You stood by me in 1978, sheltered our apartments in your management, and by seeking me for your staff, strengthened my resolve. You said we ''built for midgets''-we are all midgets compared with you. To Ethel, your children and their children, the Maidmans send their condolences. Richard and Gail Maidman
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The officers and staff of Takos & K Electric Inc. mourn the passing of a true friend and client for over four decades. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Ethel, and his children, Richard, Francine, Denise and Jacqueline, and all of his grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Don Isenberg Billy Takos Tony Takos
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Chelnik Parking Company extends its sympathy and condolences to Richard LeFrak and the entire LeFrak family. It was a great pleasure to have known and to have done business with Samuel LeFrak. Martin Chelnik Marc Chelnik Gerald Roth
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Mariana and I mourn the loss of a great man. He was a wonderful friend. His vision will always be respected and admired throughout the country. Our heartfelt condolences to Karen and Richard and the entire LeFrak family. Mariana & George Kaufman
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. We mourn the loss of a longtime associate and friend. It was a privilege to know him and to serve him. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife Ethel, son Richard and the entire LeFrak family. San and Bob Miller
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. We mourn the loss of Samuel LeFrak, a great New Yorker, and express our condolences to his family. Harold, Barbara, Michael and Jonathan Greenberg, and the children of the late Norman Greenberg.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Northeast Plumbing and Hardware Specialties Group mourns the loss of a great man and extends their deepest sympathy to the LeFrak family. Wayne Reed and Herbert Kirshner
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. We mourn the loss of a great business and philanthropic leader, a good man, whom we have known for over fifty years. We'll miss Sam LeFrak. The Mack Family
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Our deepest condolences to Francine, Rick and the entire LeFrak family. He will be sorely missed. With Love, Noreen & Peter Thomas Roth
        LeFRAK-Sam. To Sam-you were our inspiration. Our love and best wishes to Ethel, Denise, Richard, Francine and Jacqueline. Peter, Mary, Nicholas and Kathryn
        LeFRAK-Samuel. Dear Sam, you were an inspiration to all of us who were privileged to be counted amongst your wide circle of friends. Lilian and Milton
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. A truly great humanitarian. A legend in his time. My friend for fiftyfive years. Sincerest condolences to his entire family. Herbert and Peter Kirshner
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Our hearts go out to the entire LeFrak family on the loss of this great man. Sue & Jerry Weinstein
      