
        DIENER-Beatrice. ''...She is robed in strength and dignity and cheerfully faces whatever may come...She opens her mouth with wisdom, her tongue is guided by kindness ...Her children come forward and praise her; her husband, too, and he lauds her:'Many daughters have amassed achievement, but you surpass them all.'...Charm is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a G-d revering woman is much to be praised...wherever people gather, her deeds speak her praise.'' (Proverbs) Beatrice Diener's deeds speak her praise. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a most cherished member of its extended family. We are honored that one of Boys Town's crown jewel institutes bears the illustrious Diener family name-The Beatrice and Leonard Diener Torah and Science Academy. Together with her beloved husband, Leonard, z''l, who was her partner in life, business and tzedakah, the Dieners demonstrated their commitment to the future builders and leaders of Israel through their magnanimous support of virtually every Boys Town program and project. Mrs. Diener took great delight in the accomplishments of Boys Town's students and truly regarded them as ''her'' boys. Mrs. Diener exuded aristocracy in her very word, action and manner. Her Hebrew name, Bracha, reflects the blessing and inspiration of her lasting memory. Leonard and Beatrice Diener's legacy of Torah im Derech Eretz is not only manifest in the philosophy of the institution they so generously endowed with great modesty and humility, but is evident in the sterling character of their children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren and indeed, the entire family. Like the Torah itself, whose ideals they personified, the Dieners' ways were ways of pleasantness. To her children, our esteemed Board Members and benefactors, Larry (Adele) and Marjorie, her treasured sister, Toby Greller, her cherished grandchildren, great-grandchildren, nieces and nephews, we extend heartfelt condolences to the family and offer our prayers. Hamakom y'nachem eschem b'soch shaar aveilay Tzion v'Yerushalayim. Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Rebbetzin Yocheved Linchner Rebbetzin Batsheva Linchner Josh S. Weston, Honorary Chairman Raphael Benaroya, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Ronald Gray, Executive V.P.
        DIENER-Beatrice. The Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing of an outstanding leader in the Jewish Community, a kind, gentle, generous and elegant Grand Lady, and who together with her late husband, Leonard Diener, was a Benefactor of YU where they established the Leonard and Beatrice Diener Institute of Jewish Law at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law. At Stern College for Women, with her daughter, Marjorie Blenden, she dedicated the Leonard Diener Inorganic Chemistry Laboratory and, with the Blenden family, she dedicated the Beatrice Diener Dining Hall. She was also a Fellow of Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. Heartfelt condolendes are extended to: her daughter, YU Trustee and Benefactor, and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Stern College for Women, Marjorie Blenden; to her son, Lawrence Diener, a Yeshiva College Board member and to his wife, Adele, YU Guardians; to her sister Toby Greller; to her eight grandchildren, and to her six greatgrandchildren. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalen. Dr. Norman Lamm, President Yeshiva University Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Julius Berman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees E. Billi Ivry, Executive Vice Chair SCW Board of Directors Joshua L. Muss, Chairman YC Board of Directors Earle I. Mack, Chairman CSL Board of Directors
      