
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. At the age of 85 on April 16, 2003. Peacefully at his home with his loving family. Chairman of the LeFrak Organization, one of the largest private building firms in the world. He is survived by his loving wife Ethel Stone LeFrak, devoted and loving children Denise LeFrak Calicchio, Richard LeFrak, Francine LeFrak Friedberg and Jacqueline LeFrak Kosinski. His cherished grandchildren Harrison, James, Allison, Jennifer and Dylan. Great grandchildren Cameron and Julia and the entire LeFrak family. Services Friday, April 18, 11:00 AM at Temple Emanu-El Fifth Avenue at 65 St. In lieu of flowers contributions in Samel J. LeFrak's name may be made to the Department of Rehabilition Medicine, Mt Sinai School of Medicine, 1 Gustave Levy Pl, Box 1049, New York, New York 10029.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our friend, the Honorable Samuel J. LeFrak, an Advisory Director of our Board since 1991. Sam and his wife, Ethel, were enthusiastic box holders and a welcome presence in our House for many years. They were generous donors to The Met's Silver Anniversary Campaign. The glass showcases on the Opera House's parterre level commemorate their support and fascinate opera goers with their displays of historic costumes. We are very grateful for the continuing presence of the LeFrak family in this House, and extend our sincere condolences to Ethel and the entire LeFrak family. Beverly Sills, Chairman of the Board Mrs. Ezra K. Zilkha, Vice Chairman of the Board Paul M. Montrone, President William C. Morris, Chairman, Executive Committee Joseph Volpe, General Manager
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation deeply mourn the loss of Trustee Samuel J. LeFrak, our steadfast friend and benefactor. Sam and his wife, Ethel, have been invaluable supporters of the Guggenheim Museum and helped nurture the institution over several decades. His memory lives on in the Samuel J. and Ethel LeFrak Galleries and Sculpture Terrace and in the continuing commitment of family members, Denise LeFrak Calicchio and Francine LeFrak Friedberg. We extend our most heartfelt sympathy to Ethel and the entire LeFrak family. Peter Lawson-Johnston, Honorary Chairman Peter B. Lewis, Chairman Thomas Krens, Director Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Sam was a beloved and respected friend of my family for over 50 years. His vision, imagination, judgement and wisdom leave an indelible mark on our entire community. As for me, this is an irreparable loss. I always thought of Sam as part of my family. From his quoting Horace Greeley ''Go west young man'' to his ''I had a dream last night'' comments often repeated, who will ever forget Sam. I remember Sam at the anniversary party at The Museum of Natural History, LeFrak City, Queens Boulevard, Battery Park City, 40 West and of course his magnificent Newport. A man like none other. This is a great loss to us all. My most sincere sympathy to Ethel, Richard, Francine, Denise and Jacqui. I will never forget Sam. Charles R. Borrok
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The world knows him as a visionary Master Builder, government advisor, philanthropist, patron of the arts, explorer, and sportsman. But we were fortunate enough to also know him as uncle Sam, and as our surrogate father after the passing of our own father and uncle Sam's dear friend, Arthur Coller, of blessed memory. Uncle Sam's love, guidance, and encouragement were a blessing to us all. Our condolences to Aunt Ethel, Denise, Richard, Francine, Jacqueline, and the entire family, with whom we share a deep bond of friendship. Ed and Mimi Coller Bobbi and Barry Coller
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. A lifetime of memories. My parents moved into your first apartment project in Brooklyn in 1941. The Queens Blvd office buildings. The boat rides on Jonathan III to show us the future site of Battery Park City and, years later, Newport. The good times at 40 W. 57th St. Your friendly advice to me over the years when I had to make major decisions. You are larger than life and will always be remembered by me-with a smile. Sam, I was lucky to know you. Our deepest condolences to Ethel, Richard and the entire LeFrak family. Adrianne and Jerry L. Cohen Steven, Gary and Caralyn
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. With affection, respect and profound sadness, Barnard College extends sincere condolences to his wife, Ethel, and the entire LeFrak family. The College, and especially our students, celebrate his generosity and service to Barnard, and his commitment to the civic life of New York City. He will be remembered for his support of countless Barnard students and for the refurbished Ethel S. and Samuel J. LeFrak Gymnasium on the Barnard campus. Judith Shapiro, President of Barnard College Gayle Robinson, Chair of the Trustees
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Board of Directors of The Smith & Wollensky Restaurant Group expresses our sincerest condolences to the entire LeFrak family; Ethel Stone LeFrak, Richard, an esteemed member of our Board, Denise, Francine, and Jacqueline. Sam was a great friend, always larger than life, and we are proud to be a part of the New York that Sam built. Alan Stillman, Chairman Jim Dunn, President The Smith & Wollensky Restaurant Group, Inc.
        LeFRAK-Samuel. With affection and profound saddness, the Giffuni family mourns the death of a dear friend, Sam LeFrak. Our families have shared generations of friendship and many happy, milestone events. We will always smile when we remember Sam's enthusiasm, energy, thoughtfulness and wisdom, and especially his love for his family. Our hearts are with Ethel, and Sam's adored children and grandchildren. Alice, V.Q., Nini and JoAnn Wellner, and families
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. ''Tiger,'' friend, dear sweet man, your longer-than-life life ended, know again my respect and gratitude. You stood by me in 1978, sheltered our apartments in your management, and by seeking me for your staff, strengthened my resolve. You said we ''built for midgets''-we are all midgets compared with you. To Ethel, your children and their children, the Maidmans send their condolences. Richard and Gail Maidman
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. We have had a love affair with Sam and Ethel for almost 60 years. Sam was always an optimistic realist who made his dreams come true. He was my warm and most understanding friend with whom I could share any confidence. He fought strong and hard. We extend our deepest sympathy to Ethel and her loving family. Norman and Marge Alexander
        LeFRAK-Sam. The employees of Feldman Lumber are saddened by the loss of our devoted friend and loyal customer of over 60 years. Our sympathy goes out to Ethel, Denise, Richard, Francine, Jackie and the entire LeFrak family. There was only one Sam LeFrak and he will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Feldman Lumber Company Robert A. Feldman, Pres.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. We mourn the loss of our dearest friend Sam, who was so much a part of our lives for over 50 years, a brilliant, tireless and unique individual whose wisdom, spirit and friendship will be sorely missed. Our hearts and love go out to Ethel, Richard, Denise, Francine, Jackie and their families. The Modell Famly Shelby, Bill, Leslie, Shawn, Mitchell, Robin and Abby
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. My heartfelt condolences go out to Richard, Harrison, James and the entire LeFrak family. Sam clearly instilled a strong sense of fairness, intelligence, hard work and vision throughout the Lefrak Organization. He was a great man with great accomplishments and his legacy will remain as an inspiration for me. Howard S. Fiddle
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Our beloved father-in-law was an inspiration to us all. When Sam spoke we listened. Sam shaped more skylines than one could imagine. He dared to build where other men had only dreams. If you look up, don't be surprised if you see him building in the sky. We will miss him immeasurably. Your loving sons-in-law Rick, Ed and John
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. With a deep sense of personal loss, we mourn the passing of Sam LeFrak. Sam was one of New York City's most passionate, innovative, far-sighted leaders. He has left an indelible impression on the City and our lives individually. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family. Wendy and Stephen B. Siegel
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. A friend for over thirty years who will be greatly missed. Your larger than life presence and tremendous stature in the community is a testament to your true greatness. My heartfelt condolences to Ethel, Richard, Denise, Francine, Jacqueline and the entire LeFrak family. Lester Fisher and family
        LeFRAK-Samuel. The Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy sadly mourns the loss of Samuel LeFrak, beloved father of Richard and father-in-law of our esteemed Executive Vice President Karen. We send our profound sympathy and sincere condolences to them and their family. Central Park Conservancy
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. With our partners at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, we offer heartfelt condolences to Richard, Harrison and Jamie on the loss of their father and grandfather, a man of great vision and action. Meredith J. Kane Leslie Gordon Fagen Steven Simkin
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. His word was his bond. A true visionary. Ever tenacious. As he told me, ''If you can't get through on the ground, go through the air.'' Our condolences to Ethel, Richard, Harrison and the entire LeFrak family. Sheldon M. Finkelstein, Podvey, Sachs, Meanor, Catenacci, Hildner & Cocoziello
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Sam has been and will continue to be an inspiration to me. His passion, work ethic and leadership was unprecedented. As Alexander Hamilton said ''one day a great city will rise on the West Bank of the Hudson.'' Sam your vision created the Jersey waterfront. I will never forget you. Josh and Amy Kuriloff
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Mentor, friend, undisputed leader of the New York real estate industry for four decades and a great man. His monuments abound. He will be deeply missed. To all the members of the LeFrak family, we extend our deepest condolences. Marilyn and Stanley Blumberg and Family
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The principals, officers and employees of GVA Williams extend our condolences to the entire LeFrak family upon the passing of our longtime friend and business associate. Sam will long be remembered for the many contributions he made to the city and to the real estate industry.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. True visionary and a builder in every sense of the word. Great friend and a wonderful New Yorker who contributed in innumerable ways to our great city. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire LeFrak family and organization. Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. To Ethel and our dear friends Richard and Karen, their sons Harry and Jamie and the entire LeFrak family. We send our thoughts, prayers and love. Sam was bigger than life-he will live on forever in our hearts and minds. Pam, Ed, Tricia, Jason, Marcie and Jordan Pantzer
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Director and the Associates of the LeFrak Forum, at Michigan State University, mourn the passing of Samuel J. LeFrak, wise philanthropist and zealous friend of democracy and the Western intellectual tradition. Our condolences to Ethel and the entire LeFrak family.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. We mourn the end of a career of collaboration with our firm in creating significant architecture. His aspirations are in good hands with his son and grandchildren who will carry the LeFrak name to greater heights. Jordan Gruzen for Gruzen Samton Architects
        LeFRAK-Samuel. Pratt Institute mourns the death of Samuel LeFrak. We are grateful to him for his generosity and support of Pratt's Memorial Hall restoration and for providing career opportunities for so many Pratt graduates. Pratt Institute's deepest sympathies to the entire LeFrak family.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Remco organization mourns the passing of our longtime friend and client, an innovative and visionary leader, he will be deeply missed. Brian Marlowe, Chairman Emeritus Tom Lawless, President James DuBon, Vice President Bill Naples, Vice President
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Chelnik Parking Company extends its sympathy and condolences to Richard LeFrak and the entire LeFrak family. It was a great pleasure to have known and to have done business with Samuel LeFrak. Martin Chelnik Marc Chelnik Gerald Roth
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Our heartfelt condolences to the LeFrak family on the loss of Sam. He was truly a great man and both an inspiration in business and a loving family man and friend. Marjorie and Robert Emden and Bettina and James Emden
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. My sincere condolences to Richard LeFrak and the entire LeFrak family. To all the officers and staff of the LeFrak organization on the loss of a great man and a leader of the industry. Anita Harrison Real Estate Broker
        LeFRAK-Samuel. To our dear friends, Francine LeFrak Friedberg and Rick Friedberg, we mourn the loss of your dear father and a truly inspirational man. Our sincere condolences to the entire LeFrak family. Francine and Richard Leinhardt
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Mariana and I mourn the loss of a great man. He was a wonderful friend. His vision will always be respected and admired throughout the country. Our heartfelt condolences to Karen and Richard and the entire LeFrak family. Mariana & George Kaufman
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Our heartfelt sympathies to Richard and the entire LeFrak family on your tremendous loss. Sam was truly larger than life and a giant in everything he did. Schwarz Air Conditioning John and Penny Wallerstein
        LeFRAK-Samuel. The members of The Hospitality Committee for United Nations Delegations, regret the passing of Samuel LeFrak and extend sincere condolences to his family. Mrs. Walter W. Wilds President
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Northeast Plumbing and Hardware Specialties Group mourns the loss of a great man and extends their deepest sympathy to the LeFrak family. Wayne Reed and Herbert Kirshner
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Olnick Organization notes with sorrow the passing of Samuel J. LeFrak, a valued friend and partner. Our sincerest condolences to Ethel, Richard, Denise, Francine and Jacqueline and their families. Richard S. Lane, President
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. A man of vision, passion and commitment. A master builder, philanthropist and patron of the arts. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire LeFrak family. Robert and Ann Freedman
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The firm of Lippman Krasnow & Kelton LLP mourn the passing of longtime colleague and client, Samuel J. LeFrak. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family. His name and legacy will live on forever.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Our condolences to the entire LeFrak family. He was a man of great vision who loved the entertainment business. Rita and Herb Moelis Larry, Dana, Randi, and Stephen
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. With great sadness we mourn the loss of your husband and father. Our heartfelt condolences to Ethel, Denise, Richard, Francine and Jacqueline. Roberta and Maurice Amon
        LeFRAK-Sam. The Silverman family mourns the death of our dear friend. 50 years of outstanding friendship. We offer our deepest sympathy to the entire LeFrak family. Allen, Ellie, Andrew and Alexander
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. I mourn the loss of a great man and builder, and good friend of my father, Fred. He will be missed. My heartfelt condolences to Richard and the entire family. Donald J. Trump
        LeFRAK-Samuel. We send our most heartfelt condolences to Ethel, her children and grandchildren, on the passing of our beloved friend Sam. We shall sorely miss him. Janet and Foster Nevius
        LeFRAK-Samuel. Dear Sam, it was an honor to have known you. Thank you for being our friend. Our sincere condolences to the entire LeFrak family. Lynn & Carl Goldstein
        LeFRAK-Sam. You and Ethel were my first friends in NY when I came as US Spokesman at the UN and remain so even now. Godspeed on your way to heaven. Fred Negem
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Sam, you ''dreamed things that never were and asked why not''. With deep respect, love and thanks for sharing in your life. Regina Peruggi
        LeFRAK-Sam. To Sam-you were our inspiration. Our love and best wishes to Ethel, Denise, Richard, Francine and Jacqueline. Peter, Mary, Nicholas and Kathryn
        LeFRAK-Samuel. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, a giant in the real estate industry. His creativity, charisma, energy, and vision will be sorely missed. The Paul Milstein Family
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Dear Sam, you were loved, admired and revered by many, but by very few more than me. Rest peacefully in Heaven. Your loving son-in-law, John
        LeFRAK-Samuel. The management & staff of Kraham Realty send their deepest condolences to the family of Samuel LeFrak. Sam Miller, President
        LeFRAK-Samuel. The management and staff of Just Management send their deepest condolences to the family of Samuel LeFrak. Stuart Dix, President
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. We wish to express our deepest condolences to the LeFrak Family on the loss of such a great man, Samuel J. LeFrak. Robert and Howard Ecker
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. A truly great humanitarian. A legend in his time. My friend for fiftyfive years. Sincerest condolences to his entire family. Herbert and Peter Kirshner
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Your name and fame are written all across the New York skyline, but to me you were my special Dad. You will always be with me. Love, Denise
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The Officers and Staff of Gumley Haft offer our heartfelt condolences to Richard and the entire LeFrak family.
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Our deepest sympathy to the entire family. You will be remembered with love. Lillian & Bob Fabrikant
        LeFRAK - Samuel J. He brought us joy. We loved him well. Sincerest sympathy to the LeFrak family. Brian R. Marlowe
      