
        HALPERN-Harry A., 91, cherished husband for 66 years and very best friend of Sylvia (Nee Stillman), loving and caring father of Joel A. Halpern, deceased, and Linda Lesser (Warren). Adored grandfather of Jon Halpern (Kerri), Julie Cook (Jim), Beth Lipman (Larry), Jason Halpern (Katelyn) and Mark Lesser. He proudly boasted of his ten precious greatgrandchildren, Kelsey Rose, Kelsey Lauren, Joel, Leah, Reed, Mackie, Samara, Jackson, Max and Paige. Harry, along with his family, built a successful real estate enterprise that has sustained four generations, but the focal point of his life was his overwhelming love, concern and involvement with his family. He was the patriarch of his family. His presence will be felt forever. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, April 2, at Beth El Synagogue, North Avenue, New Rochelle, New York, at 10:30 AM.
        HALPERN-Harry A., 91 years was not long enough. We were so proud and happy to call you our Dad. You will never be out of our thoughts. Your integrity, devotion to charity and commitment to family will be a model to us always. We will never forget you. We will always try to make you proud. Your adoring daughter and son, Linda and Warren Lesser
        HALPERN-Harry A. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Harry A. Halpern, beloved father of Linda Lesser, and father-in-law of Warren Lesser, cherished friends of UJA-Federation. We extend our deepest sympathies to Linda and Warren, and to the entire Halpern family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        HALPERN-Harry A. To our beloved grandfather and great-grandfather. You have filled our lives with love, laughter and happiness. You taught us the true importance of family and togetherness. We hope that we can live up to the legacy you have created for our family and continue to make you proud. You are the tie that binds us...to say that you will be missed is a profound understatement. All our love always, Beth, Mark, Larry, Donna, Reed, Samara and Paige
        HALPERN - Harry. The Board of Governors and Members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Harry Halpern. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his dear wife, Sylvia, to his children, and all his family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors Stan Brettschneider, President
        HALPERN-Harry. Beth El Synagogue of New Rochelle mourns the loss of our longtime devoted member and generous benefactor, Honorary Trustee. Heartfelt condolences to Sylvia and the entire family. Melvin N. Sirner, Rabbi Bertram S. Schwarz, Pres.
        HALPERN - Harry. My ''Grandfather'' Harry. You and Nana Sylvia always made me feel as if I were your own. You will not ever be forgotten by me, Nancy or our girls. Peace and love on your journey. Andy Henschel
        HALPERN - Harry. Distin guished business associate and dear friend, as well as patriarch of a wonderful family. He will be sorely missed by all. Robert F. Weinberg Martin S. Berger
      