
        KRAMER-Stephen A. The Board of Directors and staff of the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Stephen A. Kramer, our former President and Chairman. Stephen nurtured our agency with his honesty, judgment, love and unfailing support. In doing so, he touched the lives of hundreds of thousands of day campers in the New York area. We were all honored to have known him and will miss him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Walter L. Harris, President Jeffrey A. Coopersmith, Executive Director
        KRAMER-Stephen A. We are deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend Steve Kramer. Steve was a unique individual embodying so many wonderful traits that made him stand out and rise above the crowd. He was honest, generous, loving and protective to his family, devoted to Judaism and Israel and an upbeat and positive force to everyone and everything that came in contact with him. Our love, prayers, and heartfelt sympathy go out to his beloved Dale and to his entire family. Carol & Harvey Schulweis
        KRAMER-Stephen A. The Gesher Foundation mourns the untimely passing of our good friend and longtime Vice President, Stephen Kramer. Our heartfelt condolences go to his wife, Dale, his parents, his daughters and sons-in-law and granddaughter. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Daniel Tropper, President Matthew J. Maryles, Chairman
        KRAMER-Stephen A. In loving memory of Stephen Kramer, one of our oldest and dearest friends, to whom we owe so much. Love, Enid, Alexander and Ruth Fisher Abby and David Goldstein Leigh and Avi Savar
        KRAMER-Stephen. We extend our deepest love and feelings to Dale and the children on the untimely passing of our beloved Stephen. He meant so much to us. All the Zeke's will miss him. The Altheim Family
        KRAMER-Stephen A. SAK at the track-great friend, great person, never to be forgotten. Always in our hearts and thoughts. The Finkelstein Family
      