
        LEVY-Leon. On April 6, 2003 at age 77. Beloved husband of Shelby White. Father of Tracy Ann White. Brother of S. Jay Levy of Somers, NY. Services at Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 E. 87th Street at Madison Avenue, Wednesday, April 9th, 9:30AM. Contributions may be made to The Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey.
        LEVY-Leon. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Leon Levy, a dedicated and longtime friend and benefactor whose knowledge of, and respect for, ancient cultures has educated, inspired, and benefited this institution, its staff, and the public. With his wife, our Trustee Shelby White, he was a noted collector of art, with a special interest in classical antiquities, and he gave generously to the Metropolitan Museum over the past 46 years in many areas, including acquisitions, objects conservation, and education. In 1990-91 their collection was the subject of the exhibition ''Glories of the Past: Ancient Art from the Shelby White and Leon Levy Collection,'' and in 1989 they helped fund a permanent position for a senior scholar in the Department of Greek and Roman Art. Most notably, in 1995-in celebration of Leon Levy's 70th birthday-he and his wife provided extraordinarily generous funding for creating the Museum's future Roman court and galleries, which will bear their names and will be a lasting monument to their philanthropic spirit and devotion to this museum. Leon Levy will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest condolences to Shelby and to the entire family. James R. Houghton Chairman Philippe de Montebello Director David E. McKinney President
        LEVY-Leon. The Rockefeller Uuniversity notes with profound sorrow the loss of our beloved friend Leon Levy, a dedicated member of The Rockefeller University Board of Trustees and longtime University benefactor. We join all New Yorkers in saluting the enormous accomplishments of his life. His was an original and unique life. His prodigious contributions to society cut across many fields and disciplines. He was a brilliant and legendary investor, an erudite scholar and astute collector of antiquities, an enlightened patron of archaeological expeditions, and a philanthropist of generosity and distinction. His generosity, in company with his wife, Shelby White, helped shape many of New York City's academic, medical, and cultural institutions, including this one, where he created the Shelby White and Leon Levy Center for Mind, Brain and Behavior to further scientific understanding in the neurosciences. We extend our deepest condolences to Shelby and the family. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Richard B. Fisher, Chairman of the Board Thomas P. Sakmar, Acting President Torsten N. Wiesel, President Emeritus and Director The Shelby White and Leon Levy Center for Mind, Brain and Behavior The Rockefeller University
        LEVY-Leon. The NYU community mourns the loss of its good friend, Leon Levy. His involvement with the University, and in particular with its renowned Institute of Fine Arts of which he was a trustee, was invaluable. He was wise, supportive, and generous. He was widely known for his enormous talents as a businessman, but his interests were not confined to business. He was a serious writer, whose recent, ''The Mind of Wall Street,'' was widely acclaimed. He was a connoisseur of art and beauty, and with his wife, Shelby, assembled one of the great private collections of Greek and Roman art and artifacts, developing a deep and impressive expertise in the subject. His absence will be keenly felt by his many friends and admirers at NYU, and our thoughts are with his wife, whom he deeply loved, and his family. John Sexton President, NYU Marty Lipton Chair, NYU Board of Trustees
        LEVY-Leon. The Institute for Advanced Study is profoundly grateful for the life of Leon Levy. Leon thought beyond the parameters of conventional wisdom and was in all respects a visionary. His extraordinary contributions to the life of the Institute arose from his magnificent intelligence, his distinctive insights on the global economy, and his and Shelby's generous support of the Institute's vitality and intellectual growth. Leon was a rare friend, and we extend our gratitude, affection, and love to Shelby, Tracy, and all of Leon's family. Leon will be forever in our hearts, and the Institute for Advanced Study will be forever strengthened by his leadership. Institute for Advanced Study James D. Wolfensohn, Chair, Board of Trustees Martin L. Leibowitz, Vice Chair, Board of Trustees Phillip A. Griffiths, Director
        LEVY-Leon. Bard College mourns the death of its friend, benefactor, and life trustee Leon Levy. For more than 20 years Mr. Levy was the college's most loyal and generous benefactor. Every student and every member of the faculty and staff of the college is in his debt. His warmth, cultivation, wisdom, and humanity were irreplaceable gifts to this community. The college extends its deepest condolences to his wife, Shelby White; his daughter, Tracy; his brother Jay; and the entire Levy family. David E. Schwab II, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Leon Botstein, President and Leon Levy Professor in the Arts and Humanities Dimitri B. Papadimitriou, Executive Vice President and Jerome Levy Professor of Economics
        LEVY-Leon. The Institute of Fine Arts of New York University notes with deep sadness the passing of Leon Levy, Vice Chairman of our Board of Trustees, Chairman of the Board's Finance Committee, and Vice President of the Institute of Fine Arts Foundation. As a valued colleague and friend, generous benefactor, and wise counselor, Mr. Levy served our Board with great distinction for more than two decades. We extend our condolences to Mr. Levy's wife, Shelby White, and to his many colleagues and friends who share in this loss. Mariet Westermann, Director, Institute of Fine Arts Sheldon H. Solow, Chairman, Board of Trustees, Institute of Fine Arts
        LEVY-Leon. The Board and staff of The New York Botanical Garden deeply regret the loss of our respected friend Leon Levy, husband of our esteemed Board member and Vice Chairman Shelby White. Leon's visionary philanthropy and far-reaching contributions greatly enriched the intellectual and cultural life of New York City. His legacy to the Garden includes the Shelby White and Leon Levy Reading Room in our Library and also the Visitor Center now under construction. We extend our most sincere condolences to his wife Shelby and family. Wilson Nolen, Chairman Thomas Hubbard, Chairman Emeritus Gregory Long, President
        LEVY-Leon. The American Civil Liberties Union deeply mourns the loss of a great leader and dear friend, Leon Levy. A giant among men, Leon was the greatest of humanists-valuing all individuals, their inherent rights and liberties, and their place in history. ''Sometimes small incidents, rather than glorious exploits, give us the best evidence of character.'' (Plutarch on Alexander) Leon's character was best chronicled by the small incidents that his family and friends will forever cherish. Anthony D. Romero Executive Director
        LEVY-Leon. The board of trustees and administration of the American Symphony Orchestra mourn the death of our good friend and benefactor Leon Levy, whose generous support has helped the Orchestra to enrich New York's cultural life for many years. All of us at the ASO extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Shelby White; his daughter, Tracy; and the entire Levy family. Leon Botstein, Music Director Robert Fippinger, Chairman Lynne Meloccaro, Executive Director
        LEVY-Leon. The Board of Governors of The Levy Economics Institute of Bard College mourns the passing of its founder and chairman, Leon Levy. His longtime support and wise counsel have contributed immeasurably to the Institute and its work. He was a trusted friend and a valued colleague who will be sorely missed. All of us at the Levy Institude extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Shelby White; his daughter, Tracy; and the entire extended Levy family. Dimitri B. Papadimitriou, President
        LEVY-Leon. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are saddened by the passing of Leon Levy. Beloved husband of Shelby White, Leon has been a longtime supporter of UJA-Federation, and both have been cherished friends of the Jewish community. We extend our deepest sympathies to Shelby & to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        LEVY-Leon. The many friends of Leon Levy at Oppenheimer & Co. mourn his untimely passing and extend our condolences to the members of his family. Leon was one of the most innovative financial minds of our time. He was a kind and generous mentor to many of us. We will greatly miss his wisdom, his humor and his intelligence.
        LEVY-Leon. With sorrow we mourn the loss of a man of memorable and enduring accomplishment and generosity that benefited uncountable others. Husband to Shelby and father to Tracy, your unswerving loyalty and devotion to your friends will be recounted and remembered. Philippe and Melanie Radley
        LEVY-Leon. Dear friend and partner of fifty plus years. A brilliant, tireless and unique individual. Your wisdom, spirit and friendship will be sorely missed. Our love and wishes go out to Shelby, Tracy, Jay and David. Helen and Jack Nash, Beth and Joshua Nash, Pamela and George Rohr
        LEVY-Leon. We mourn the loss of our friend Leon Levy, who was so much a part of our lives. Our hearts go out to Shelby White, Tracy, and Jay and Barbara Levy and their children. Leon Botstein Barbara Haskell The entire Botstein family
        LEVY-Leon. A man of great intelligence, generosity and wit, whose friendship was a great gift. My deepest condolences to Shelby and Tracy Elisabeth Familian
      