
        RUBIN-Gary. The American Jewish Committee mourns with deep sorrow the passing of Gary Rubin, our dear colleague and friend. Gary's boundless passion for Jewish life and his lifelong commitment to helping others, no matter their faith or ethnicity, is a continuing inspiration to all in the Jewish community. Gary's tireless efforts to realize the aspirations of a democratic, pluralistic America that was founded and continues to be strengthened by the diversity of our nation's population was largely the focus of his tenure at the American Jewish Committee, where he worked for 13 years, principally as Director of National Affairs. He devoted himself similarly to Jewish peoplehood and to the State of Israel. The sages were speaking of Gary when they wrote, in Ethics of the Fathers, ''the world rests on three pillars, Torah, communal service and deeds of kindness.'' We extend our heartfelt condolences to Gary's wife, Sheila, and to their children, Ari, Michal, Jonah and Bracha. David A. Harris, Exec. Dir. Shulamit Bahat Associate Executive Director American Jewish Committee
        RUBIN-Gary. The Board and staff of the New York Association for New Americans (NYANA) are deeply shocked and pofoundly sddened at the sudden and untimely death of our former executive staff member, esteemed col league and treasured friend. Gary's impassioned accomplishments in promoting immigrant rights, advocating for social justice, and serving the world Jewish community are his legacy to all who knew him. He was a dedicated and consummate professional, an original thinker, and a gifted writer and communicator who could make the most complex ideas easy to understand. Gary was a caring friend and extremely devoted to his family and community. We will miss his ready smile and his wise counsel. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Sheila and his children Ari, Michal, Jonah and Bracha. May his memory be a blessing for us all. Michael Loeb Chairman of the Board Mark Handelman President and CEO
      