
        NEWHOUSE - Caroline. On April 26, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Theodore. Devoted grandmother of Amy Bermant Adler and Julie Bermant Lobel. Cherished greatgrandmother of Jill and Emily Adler, and Joshua, Isaac, Jonathan and Sarah Lobel. Services Wednesday, April 30th, 10AM at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave and 65th St. In lieu of flowers contributions to Career Transitions for Dancers, 165 W. 46th St., Suite 701, NYC 10036.
        NEWHOUSE-Caroline. The Board of Directors, staff and company members of New York City Opera mourn the death of our dear friend and staunch supporter. Caroline, the beloved wife of the late Theodore, became part of the City Opera family in 1959 and began a long tenure of service to the company in 1966, first as Vice President of the Guild, then as a Board Director until 1990, and then as Honorary Director. With her husband Ted, Caroline was a pillar of this institution for nearly 45 years. Their memories will live with us, and the world of opera, through their incredible legacy of supporting artists and new productions, giving voice and vision to the art form for generations to come. Caroline's artistic talents, charm, wit, foresight and generosity helped sustain and embolden this company through most of its history. We are deeply grateful for her contributions to City Opera and the cultural life of New York, and we will remember her always. We extend our deepest sympathy to our president Mark Newhouse and the entire Newhouse family in this time of great loss. Irwin Schneiderman Chairman of the Board Paul Kellogg General and Artistic Director
        NEWHOUSE-Caroline H. We are profoundly saddened at the loss of the heart of CTFD-Caroline H. Newhouse. Dancers, staff and Board members will sorely miss her wit, her wisdom and her compassion. An accomplished artist herself, she understood the cost of true artistry and was a kindred spirit to our dancers. We were blessed to have enjoyed her vision, her support, and most precious of all, her friendship. She was our inspiration. We extend our deepest sympathy to the entire Newhouse family. Cynthia G. Fischer, President Alexander J. Dube, Executive Director Career Transition For Dancers
        NEWHOUSE-Caroline. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Joyce wish to express their deepest sympathy to the Newhouse family on their very sad loss. Mrs Newhouse was an inspiring and beloved friend to the dance community, and she will be missed. We are grateful to have known her, and we will miss seeing her in seat A115. The Joyce Theatre Foundation David D. Holbrook, Chairman Linda Shelton, Exec Director
        NEWHOUSE-Caroline. The Partners and Staff of Paul Scherer & Company, LLP extend our condolences to the family of our beloved friend, Caroline Newhouse.
      