
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. ''Tiger,'' friend, dear sweet man, your larger-than-life life ended, know again my respect and gratitude. You stood by me in 1978, sheltered our apartments in your management, and by seeking me for your staff, strengthened my resolve. You said we ''built for midgets''-we are all midgets compared with you. To Ethel, your children and their children, the Maidmans send their condolences. Richard and Gail Maidman
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of Samuel J. LeFrak. He was a good friend of the Health System and a generous supporter of countless other worthy causes. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System Board of Trustees Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Mentor, friend, undisputed leader of the New York real estate industry for four decades and a great man. His monuments abound. He will be deeply missed. To all the members of the LeFrak family, we extend our deepest condolences. Marilyn and Stanley Blumberg and Family
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Chelnik Parking Company extends its sympathy and condolences to Richard LeFrak and the entire LeFrak family. It was a great pleasure to have known and to have done business with Samuel LeFrak. Martin Chelnik Marc Chelnik Gerald Roth
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Mariana and I mourn the loss of a great man. He was a wonderful friend. His vision will always be respected and admired throughout the country. Our heartfelt condolences to Karen and Richard and the entire LeFrak family. Mariana & George Kaufman
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. Papa Sam-we will miss you and love you forever. Always in our hearts. Granddaughters Allison and Jennifer. Great grandchildren Cameron and Julia.
        LeFRAK-Sam. To Sam-you were our inspiration. Our love and best wishes to Ethel, Denise, Richard, Francine and Jacqueline. Peter, Mary, Nicholas and Kathryn
        LeFRAK-Samuel J. In memory of a beloved friend, we will miss you greatly. John, Susan and Vera Michaelson
      