
        MARKS-Edwin Saul. On April 24, 2003 at home surrounded by Nancy, his childhood sweetheart and loving wife of 53 years and his daughters, Carolyn Marks Blackwood, Linda Marks Katz and Constance Marks Miller; his sons-in-law, Greg Quinn, Richard Katz and James Miller. Loving grandfather of his 3 grandchildren, Gabriel, Laura and Sophia. He is survived by his sister Marjorie Boas Levins, his brother-in-law Jack Levins and his childhood friend and brother - in - law Jerome Abeles and Betsy McGrathAbeles. His generosity, sense of humor and kindness in word and deed will always be remembered by those who knew him. Services will be held Monday, April 28 at 11 AM at Temple Beth El, 5 Old Mill Road in Great Neck. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to the BoasMarks Biomedical Science Research Center at North Shore-Long Island Jewish Hospital or to the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.
        MARKS-Edwin S. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System mourns the passing of Life Trustee Edwin S. Marks, a dear friend whose longtime interest in and support of biomedical research was instrumental in the creation of the North Shore-LIJ Research Institute in Manhasset, NY. The generosity of Mr. Marks, his sister, Marjorie Boas Levins, and her late husband, Robert S. Boas, led to the construction of the Boas-Marks Biomedical Science Research Pavilion, a state-of-the-art facility that houses the North ShoreLIJ Research Institute. His memory and spirit will be preserved in our hearts and in the future disease-curing laboratory discoveries that emanate from our research efforts. In addition to Marjorie, we extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Nancy, and daughters, Carolyn, Linda and Constance. Donations may be made in Mr. Marks' memory to the North Shore-LIJ Research Institute or Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman Michael J. Dowling President & CEO North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        MARKS-Edwin S. It is with deep sadness that the Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center mourn the loss of Edwin S. Marks. An inspired Director of Lincoln Center's Board since 1992 and a Vice Chairman since 1998, Mr. Marks was a dedicated champion of the arts. He demonstrated his commitment not only through his leadership, but also by his generous support of our programs, especially the Lincoln Center Festival, Mostly Mozart, and the campaign for the Samuel B. and David Rose Building. He will be greatly missed. We offer our sincere condolences to his wife Nancy, his daughters Carolyn, Linda and Constance, and the extended Marks family. Bruce Crawford, Chairman Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        MARKS - Edwin. The trustees, faculty and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are deeply saddened at the passing of Edwin Marks. Mr. Marks was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Laboratory since 1992, was elected vice chairman in 1998 and has since served on its Executive Committee. His vision, leadership and keen business acumen were valued by everyone at Cold Spring Harbor. He will be greatly missed. To his wife, Nancy, his family and his many friends, we express our deepest sympathy. William R. Miller, Chairman Bruce Stillman, Director & Chief Executive Officer James D. Watson, President W. Dillaway Ayres, Chief Operating Officer
        MARKS-Edwin S. The directors, officers, associates and staff of Carl Marks & Co. and its affiliated companies mourn the passing of our beloved and admired friend, colleague and chairman. Edwin Marks was a man of keen intelligence, unshakable integrity and great compassion for his fellow human beings. His philanthropy was legendary, as was his profound love of family and Country. We extend our deepest sympathy to his adored Nancy, his daughters Carolyn, Linda, and Connie, his sister Marjorie Boas Levins and all the other members of the Marks and Boas families.
        MARKS-Edwin S. The entire Juilliard community is saddened by the death of Edwin S. Marks, husband of esteemed Trustee Nancy Marks. Through his vigorous and generous support and advocacy for the arts, Edwin Marks helped make the world more welcoming to the young men and women whom Juilliard prepares for careers as actors, dancers and musicians. We express our deep condolences to Nancy and her family. The Trustees, faculty, students and staff of The Juilliard School
      