
        SLIFKA-Sylvia. Passed away Sunday, April 6th, 2003 after a long and lovely life. Adored wife of the late Joseph Slifka. Loving mother of Alan and Barbara Slifka. Grandmother of Michael, Randolph and David, and great grandmother of Grace and Joshua. Services private. Family receiving Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, 5-8PM at Mrs. Slifka's residence. Contributions in her name may be made to Temple Emanu - El, 5th Avenue at 65th Street, NY, NY 10021, or The Abraham Joshua Heschel School.
        SLIFKA-Sylvia. The Board of Trustees and the entire Heschel School community mourn the passing of our longtime devoted benefactress, Sylvia Slifka, beloved mother of our Vice President, Alan B. Slifka, cherished grandmother of alumnus David B. Slifka and great grandmother of current student, Joshua Slifka. She delighted in seeing our progress and our students in her many visits over the years. Her gracious generosity was essential at all critical junctures of our development. Mrs. Slifka's tremendous support for our school is most recently exemplified by the dedication of our new high school in the Joseph and Sylvia Slifka Building that was officially dedicated just days before her passing. We express our deepest sympathies to her son Alan, daughter Barbara and the entire Slifka family. Shira Nadich Levin, President, Board of Trustees Roanna Shorofsky, Head of School
        SLIFKA - Sylvia. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sadness the passing of an important and generous friend, Sylvia Slifka. Her discerning eye and keen interest in the Museum's collection led to donations of extraordinary and significant works of art. She will be remembered by generations of art lovers. We extend our deepest sympathy to her children, Alan and Barbara. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art
        SLIFKA-Sylvia. The officers, Board of Trustees and staff of Joseph Slifka Center for Jewish Life at Yale University offers profound condolences to the Slifka family upon the loss of Sylvia, mother of Alan B. Slifka '51 and grandmother to David Slifka '01, Board members. She will be remembered with gratitude for her visionary support of Slifka Center, which will always embody her love of Jewish education and her passionate involvement in Jewish life. We will miss her. Edward Kamens, President Rabbi James Ponet, Head of Slifka Center Amy Aaland, Exec. Dir.
        SLIFKA-Sylvia. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Sylvia Slifka, beloved mother of Alan Slifka, Honorary Trustee of the Jewish Center. We extend our deepest condolences to Alan and family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        SLIFKA-Sylvia. You were the best. Thanks for all your love and support. We will miss you dearly. Your Fan Club
      