
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. What was once a large, energetic and vibrant young family, is now diminished by an accident that killed Anne and Tony. We, Tony's brother and sister, are struggling to understand and accept our loss. Our heart goes out to Miasha, Tora, William, Cole and Noah. We will never be able to replace or forget our generous, committed and loving brother & sister-in-law. Irma Fisher Mann and Dr. Norman Stearns and Lester and Gwen Fisher and our children, Kyle, Casey, Craig, Brian and Cheryl Fisher and Robert and Elizabeth Mann
        FISHER-Anne and Tony. The Board and staff of the International Center of Photography mourn the tragic passing of our trustee, Anne, and her husband Tony. Full of life, passionately committed to all whom they cared for, they left us far before their time. Our deep condolences to their parents and children and to all who share our grief. Gayle Greenhill, Chairman Raymond J. McGuire, Pres. Willis Hartshorn, Director
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of New York extend their heartfelt condolences to Richard, Vice President of the Foundation, Tony and Anne's children, and the entire extended Fisher family on their tragic loss. Our thoughts and prayers are with all of you at this terribly sad time. Larry A. Silverstein Chairman Jerry L. Cohen President Officers and Directors
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. Our heartfelt condolences go out to our dear friend and esteemed Board member, Emily Fisher Landau, on the tragic loss of her son, Anthony, and her daughter-inlaw, Anne. Mrs. Fisher Landau is a founder of the National Women's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and serves with distinction on the College's Board of Overseers. She is also an Honorary Degree Alumna of Yeshiva University. Her generosity as a benefactor established the Fisher Landau Center for the Treatment of Learning Disabilities at the College. To Mrs. Fisher Landau and the entire family we offer our deepest sympathy. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm President Ronald P. Stanton Chairman, Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Dr. Mary S. Kelly, Director, Fisher Landau Center Linda Altman, President, National Women's Division Judy R. Rosenberg, Chair, Executive Committee National Women's Division
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The partners and staff of Berdon LLP offer our heartfelt condolences to the Fisher family on their tragic loss. The events of Friday, April 4, 2003, struck us deeply and we share in the shock and greif. In Anthony, we mourn the loss of a good friend and client of many years, who was a driving force behind the Intrepid Museum and a caring father. In Anne, we mourn the untimely passing of a vibrant woman and loving mother to Tora, William, and Noah. We honor their memory and their acheivements. To those they leave behind we know there will come a time of peace, fond remembrance and healing.
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. We greive and remember, and struggle to accept this tragic loss of friends so dear, so vital, sensitive and caring. ''If you can dream-and not make dreams your master'' Kipling wrote, and your abundant talents and tenacity and profound commitment to others less fortunate than yourself, as well as the tilt of your head, the ease and depth of your smile, the firmness of your handshake and your ability to inspire others will be sorely missed, but never forgotten. The Edelman Family and The Attorneys and Staff of Paul Hastings, Janofsky & Walker LLP.
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Allen-Stevenson School mourns the loss of Anthony and Anne Fisher and extends its deepest condolences to family members including Tora, Miasha, William, Noah and Cole Fisher, Emily Fisher Landau, Richard Fisher, Candia Fisher, and Robert and Lois Williamee. Tony and Anne were devoted parents and will be greatly missed by the entire School community. Ronald S. Rolfe President David R. Trower Headmaster
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. It is with deep sadness that we bid farewell to our brother Tony and to his wife Anne. Tony was our partner and our friend. He and Anne will be dearly missed by us, our family, our friends and many, many others. Through their business and through their charitable efforts of love, they touched thousands, many of whom they never met. The world is a lesser place without them, but we will remember them always. Candia J. Fisher and Richard L. Fisher
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne E. The entire Temple Israel family mourns the untimely and tragic passing of M. Anthony and Anne Fisher. Tony and Anne were devoted parents, caring children, dear friends and gracious supporters of numerous public, private and spiritual causes. Our congregation was particularly blessed by their love, compassion and energy. Their memories will abide among us as a loving benediction. Judith S. Lewis, Rabbi Martin Cohen, President
        FISHER-M. Anthony. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art offer their heartfelt condolences to the family of M. Anthony and Anne Fisher, beloved son and daughter-in-law of distinguished Whitney trustee Emily Fisher Landau. Robert J. Hurst, President Leonard A. Lauder, Chairman Maxwell L. Anderson, Director
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Partners, Associates and Staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield mourn the loss of our dear client and friend, Tony, and his beloved wife Anne. We send our condolences to their family and legion of friends and admirers-all of whom will miss this great philanthropist and kind gentleman. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. The Remco organization notes with great regret and profound sorrow the untimely loss of two wonderful people. Brian Marlowe, Chairman Emeritus Tom Lawless, President Phyllis Federici Jim Clifford Bill Naples
        FISHER-M. Anthony. The Board of Trustees of Temple Israel of the City of New York mourns the loss of our cherished colleague and his beloved wife, Anne. Tony served unselfishly and with the heart of a giant. He leaves a void that can never be filled. Oskar Brecher, Chairman Martin Cohen, President
        FISHER-M. Anthony. The Association for A Better New York mourns the loss of Tony and Anne Fisher. As colleagues, as friends, as valuable ABNY members, and as New Yorkers, they will be greatly missed. Our hearts are with the entire Fisher Family and organizaiton. William C. Rudin, Chairman
        FISHER-M. Anthony. A man for all seasons whose inspiration touched so many. Your ship may have sailed, but your spirit will always be with us. Our condolences to Richard, Emily and the entire Fisher family. Sam and Terri Kaufman The Agent Support Group
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne. Let us honor America by remembering Tony Fisher, a special person I was fortunate to know and work with closely in real estate and philanthropies. My deepest condolences to the entire Fisher family. Jerry L. Cohen
        FISHER-M. Anthony. To my oldest and dearest friend, your untimely passing will leave an emptiness with which we can only struggle to comprehend and live with. Your loving friend, Peter Heineman
        FISHER-M. Anthony. My beloved friend. Mourning the loss of a great man of compassion and dignity. He will be missed by all who knew him. My condolences to the entire family. Brian R. Marlowe
        FISHER-M. Anthony and Anne E. The Temple Israel Early Childhood Learning Center mourns the loss of two very active and beloved parents whose love and joy of their children showed in every way. Our hearts reach out to their children with love and compassion. Nancy-Ellen Micco, Director ECLC Lori Sitomer, President Parents' Association Beth Lee, Chair Nursery School Committee
      