
        MARKS-Edwin Saul. On April 24, 2003 at home surrounded by Nancy, his childhood sweetheart and loving wife of 53 years and his daughters, Carolyn Marks Blackwood, Linda Marks Katz and Constance Marks Miller; his sons-in-law, Greg Quinn, Richard Katz and James Miller. Loving grandfather of his 3 grandchildren, Gabriel, Laura and Sophia. He is survived by his sister Marjorie Boas Levins, his brother-in-law Jack Levins and his childhood friend and brother - in - law Jerome Abeles and Betsy McGrathAbeles. His generosity, sense of humor and kindness in word and deed will always be remembered by those who knew him. Services will be held Monday, April 28 at 11 AM at Temple Beth El, 5 Old Mill Road in Great Neck. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to the BoasMarks Biomedical Science Research Center at North Shore-Long Island Jewish Hospital or to the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.
        MARKS-Edwin Saul. The Officers and Trustees of The West Point Jewish Chapel Fund are deeply saddened by the passing of Edwin Marks. He was our Past President, dear friend, colleague and, for many of us, our beloved classmate or fellow alumnus. He will be long remembered for his philanthropy, humanitarianism, integrity and support of his alma mater, friends and the world around him. We shall sorely miss him. We extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to his wife Nancy and their family. ''...and when our work is done, our course on earth is run, may it be said, well done; be thou at peace,'' West Point Alma Mater. Louis Gross President of the West Point Jewish Chapel Fund
        MARKS-Edwin S. Our hearts are filled with sadness at the passing of our beloved brother, uncle and great-uncle. We will always remember him as a lover of humanity who possessed qualities of wisdom, gentleness, generosity, humor and warmth. We greatly admired his strength and courage, and his memory will always serve as an inspiration to all of us. We truly loved him and we will sorely miss him. He will forever be in our thoughts. Our hearts go out to Nancy, Carolyn, Greg, Gabriel, Linda, Rick, Laura, Connie, James and Sophia. The Boas, Levins, and Claster Families
        MARKS-Edwin S. The directors, officers, associates and staff of Carl Marks & Co, and its affiliated companies mourn the passing of our beloved and admired friend, colleague and chairman. Edwin Marks was a man of keen intelligence, unshakable integrity and great compassion for his fellow human beings. His philanthropy was legendary, as was his profound love of family and country. We extend our deepest sympathy to his adored Nancy, his daughters Carolyn, Linda, and Connie, his sister Marjorie Boas Levins and all the other members of the Marks and Boas families.
      