
        LEVY-Leon. On April 6, 2003 at age 77. Beloved husband of Shelby White. Father of Tracy Ann White. Brother of S. Jay Levy of Somers, NY. Services at Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 E. 87th Street at Madison Avenue, Wednesday, April 9th, 9:30AM. Contributions may be made to The Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, New Jersey.
        LEVY-Leon. The trustees, officers, and staff of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation mourn the passing of a beloved colleague and wonderful friend. A true gentleman, an engaging storyteller, and a deeply kind man, Leon Levy brought an informed and resolute voice to the Foundation's mission. Mr. Levy joined the Board of Trustees of the Foundation in 1991, when he also became a member of the Finance Committee and served as its chairman for a number of years. Leon Levy had a profound understanding of the Foundation's purpose and goals in support of gifted artists, scholars, and scientists. All of us connected with the Foundation feel fortunate to have had the privilege of knowing and working with this wise and humorous man, who had such a special intellect. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Shelby White, and to the members of their family. Joseph A. Rice Chairman, Board of Trustees Edward Hirsch President and Trustee Joel Conarroe President Emeritus and Trustee
        LEVY-Leon. The horticulture lovers among the Board, staff, and Patrons of The New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of Leon Levy, husband of our treasured Board member and horticultural enthusiast Shelby White. Shelby and Leon have a distinguished garden themselves and a major daffodil collection which they have shared generously with us and others in horticulture for many years. In addition, the great Shelby White and Leon Levy Reading Room in the Garden's Library serves garden writers and scholars from around the world. We extend heartfelt condolences to Shelby and the family. James Benenson, Jr., Chairman, Horticulture Committee Dr. Kim Tripp, Senior V.P. for Horticulture
        LEVY - Leon - Planned Parenthood of New York City, its Board of Directors, Council of Advocates and staff, mourn the death of Leon Levy, a member of the Investment Advisory Committee. We are grateful for Mr. Levy's personal generosity, good counsel and advice over the many years of his association with PPNYC. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Shelby White, daughter Tracy and the entire Levy family. Cathy A. Cramer, Chair, PPNYC Board of Directors John N. Mayberry, Chair, PPNYC Investment Advisory Committee Joan Malin, President & CEO
        LEVY-Leon. The Packer Collegiate Institute Board of Trustees, Alumni Board, faculty and staff extend our deepest sympathy to alumna and longstanding benefactor Shelby Baier White and their daughter Tracy White. Together with his wife, Leon Levy has made deep and lasting contributions to the educational, scientific, and cultural life of New York City. Mr. Levy was a unique talent who will long be remembered for his numerous accomplishments and varied interests. Cynthia Elliott Chair, Board of Trustees J. Geoffrey Pierson Head of School
        LEVY-Leon. Had the extraordinary gift of understanding the past, seeing the present with absolute clarity, and embracing the future. He taught many of us something about investing and a great deal about life. He began teaching me the business thirty-five years ago and continued as mentor and advisor from the inception of our partnership. We will miss his counsel and his presence. Our deepest sympathy to Shelby, Tracy and the Levy Family. Stephen Berger Cynthia C. Wainwright
        LEVY-Leon. PublicAffairs mourns the loss of Leon Levy and sends our sympathies to his wife, Shelby White and his family. Leon's memoires, published in the last year of his life, were widely admired. They will serve as a testament and legacy to his remarkable career on Wall Street and in philanthropy. Peter Osnos, Publisher and CEO Paul Golob, Editorial Director Gene Taft, Publicity Director
        LEVY-Leon. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and the Israel Museum, Jerusalem are deeply saddened by the death of longtime Board member, friend and supporter Leon Levy. Our heartfelt condolences to Shelby White and the entire family. Judy Steinhardt, Jack Nash Co-Chairmen, AFIM James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir., IM
        LEVY-Leon. IFAR (The International Foundation for Art Research) mourns the passing of its longtime Trustee (1976-2003) and friend, Leon Levy. His strong support and wise counsel have been deeply appreciated and will be sincerely missed. Our sympathies to his wife Shelby White, and his entire family. Jack A. Josephson, Chairman Sharon Flescher, Exec. Dir.
        LEVY-Leon. Our lovable friend was a bright star in our lives but now, as Shakespeare said: ''When he shall die, take him and cut him out in little stars, and he will make the face of heaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night, and pay no worship to the garish sun.'' Deborah Miller William D. Zabel
        LEVY-Leon. The Board of Directors, educational staff and students of Yeshiva of Far Rockaway mourn the passing of our benefactor and friend, Mr. Leon Levy. May his family be comforted among those who mourn Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Yechiel Y. Perr, President
        LEVY-Leon. The Cycladic Art Foundation mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and husband of our Chairperson Shelby White. Leon's generosity, kindness and intellect shall be remembered by all. Mrs. Nicholas Goulandris, Honorary Chairperson Cycladic Art Foundation
        LEVY-Leon. Dear friend and partner of fifty plus years. A brilliant, tireless and unique individual. Your wisdom, spirit and friendship will be sorely missed. Our love and wishes go out to Shelby, Tracy, Jay and David. Helen and Jack Nash, Beth and Joshua Nash, Pamela and George Rohr
        LEVY-Leon. A man of great kindness whose friendship has been very dear to me and all his friends. My heart goes out to my dear friend Shelby and their daughter Tracy. Leon was always there to help me. He will be very sadly missed. Elaine Sargent
        LEVY-Leon. The Trustees and Staff of the Brooklyn Museum of Art record with deep sorrow the passing of Leon Levy, a friend and supporter of long standing. Robert S. Rubin, Chair, Board of Trustees
        LEVY-Leon. A valiant warrior for common sense and humanity. We will miss you. Our deepest sympathy to Shelby White, his beloved daughter Tracy and his son in law Lakshman Francis X. Morrissey, Jr
        LEVY-Leon. The Smith Family, Donald, Judy, Marc, Bette and Ruth cannot enumerate the many ways your friendship touched and influenced our lives. Our condolences to Shelby, Tracy, and the family.
        LEVY-Leon. Leon, you have been a friend for 40 years and a source of support and hope through my life. My heart and love goes out to Shelby, Tracy, and Lakshman. Laura
        LEVY-Leon. We mourn the loss of one of our father's great friends. His wisdom and his wit shall be missed. The Sharp Family
      