
        SUPPER-Patricia McKeon Chace. Palm Beach philanthropist, died Wednesday April 23, 2003. Born in Palo Alto, California, graduate of The University of Oregon and lived throughout the world and the United States. She called Palm Beach and Greenwich, Connecticut home for the last 30 years. Patricia was an accomplished artist and equestrian. Distinctions and Honors include, United States Croquet Hall of Fame. Patricia was the first recipient of the ''Women of Distinction'' honor in 1991 given by Palm Beach Atlantic University. She and her late husband Fred Supper also established the Frederick and Patricia Supper Center of Achieving Excellence in Business and the Supper Honors Program at Palm Beach Atlantic University. She received the 1991 Hermes Philanthropist of the Year award. She and her husband established the Patricia and Frederick Supper Galleries at the Bruce Museum in Greenwich, Connecticut, The Frederick and Patricia Supper Central Sculpture Garden at the Norton Gallery in Palm Beach, Florida, the Supper Club at the National Croquet Center in West Palm Beach, Florida, and the Supper Library at the Long Ridge School in Stamford, Connecticut. She was a member of the Board of Directors of Hospice of Palm Beach County and The Croquet Foundation of America. She was also a member of The Society of the Four Arts, The National Institute of Social Sciences and the Preservation Foundation of Palm Beach, and was a Patron of The New York Botanical Garden. Patricia was also a Co-Founder of the Greenwich Croquet Club. She was a recipient of the Red Cross Award, and was President of The Frederick & Patricia Supper Foundation, Inc., a charitable foundation to promote arts and education. She is survived by two daughters, Kathleen Chace Larzelere of Lake Placid, New York and Cynthia Chace Gray of Stamford, Connecticut and four grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to The Frederick & Patricia Supper Foundation, Inc., C/O Brown Brothers Harriman, 240 Royal Palm Way, Palm Beach, Florida 33480. Services will be held Friday, today April 25 at 10:30 A.M. at Bethesda By the Sea, Palm Beach, Florida.
      