
        SPEYER-Germaine M. Wife of the late Ernest A. Speyer. Died in her 90th year. Mother of Vivian and Donald Sonnenborn, Jerry Speyer and Katherine Farley. Grandmother of Valerie and Jeffrey, Robert, Holly and Jonathan, Laura, Jonah, Andrew and David. Great-grandmother of William, Charles and Arden. Special friend and ''Grandmother'' to many. Funeral services private. In lieu of flowers contributions can be made to Columbia University for the Germaine M. Speyer Scholarship or to the Shoah Foundation.
        SPEYER-Germaine. NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital is saddened by the passing of Mrs. Germaine Speyer, the beloved mother of our esteemed Vice Chairman and Trustee, Jerry I. Speyer. A strong and elegant woman who exemplified compassion, Mrs. Speyer was deeply devoted to her family and friends. Our deepest condolences are extended to Jerry and the entire Speyer family. John J. Mack, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Frank A. Bennack, Jr. Vice Chairman Charlotte M. Ford, Vice Chairman Peter A. Georgescu, Vice Chairman Dr. Herbert Pardes, President and CEO New YorkPresbyterian Hospital
        SPEYER-Germaine. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Germaine Speyer, beloved mother of Jerry Speyer, a cherished friend of the New York and Jewish community. We offer our deepest sympathy to the Speyer family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        SPEYER-Germaine M. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Jerry, VP of the Foundation, and the entire extended Speyer family on the loss of their mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. May all of your special memories of her life guide you through your days. L.A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors Realty Foundation of NY
        SPEYER - Germaine. The staff of Turner acknowledges with deep sadness the passing of Germaine Speyer and extends our heartfelt sympathy to the Speyer family.
      