
        HAGGARTY--Kevin F. Of Larchmont NY and formerly of Greenpoint, Brooklyn at age 60 on May 20, 2003. Beloved husband to Cathy, and father to Mark, Christopher, and Lizzie, and father-in-law to Amy. As Executive Managing Director of Insignia/ ESG's Capital Advisors Group, he was one of the most well respected investment sales brokers in the commercial real estate industry. During his professional career, which spanned 25 years, his clients included some of the nation's leading institutions including Lend Lease, MetLife, and Teachers Insurance & Annuity Association among others. He was a wonderful father, an inspiration to his three children, and a devoted husband of 32 years. He was an exceptionally generous man, kind, gracious, compassionate and wise, and he warmly enriched the lives of all who knew him. His family and friends are deeply saddened by the loss and will miss him immeasurably. Viewing hours, Thursday, May 22, 7pm-9pm and Friday, May 23, 2pm-4pm and 7pm-9pm at John J. Fox Funeral Home, 2080 Boston Post Road, Larchmont, NY; funeral mass service Saturday, May 24, at 9:30am, St. Augustine's Church, Larchmont Avenue (just past Boston Post Road). In lieu of flowers, please make donations in Kevin's name to the following charities: Larchmont Friends of the Family, PO Box 746, Larchmont, NY 10538, or College Track, 1846 Bay Road, East Palo Alto, CA 94303, a non - profit organization where Kevin's son Mark is employed.
        HAGGARTY--Kevin F. Kevin was a longtime friend, associate and partner whom I trusted, respected and admired. His leadership, wisdom and generosity of spirit will always be remembered. He was a wonderful father and husband and my heartfelt sympathies extend to his family. He will be missed. Stephen B. Siegel, Chairman and CEO of Insignia/ESG
        HAGGARTY--Kevin F. We will miss his smiling face. His enthusiasm for everything big or small was infectious and inspiring to all who knew him. His love for his family was foremost followed by a deep love and loyalty to all his friends and business associates. We are deeply saddened by this sudden loss of a great friend. Wendy and Steve Siegel
        HAGGARTY -- Kevin. The members of the Urban Land Institute of New York deeply mourn the passing of a good friend, consummate professional and gentleman. Our heartfelt condolences are sent to his family, colleagues and many friends. Urban Land Institute of NY Alice Connell, Chair Barry Moss, Chair-Elect
        HAGGARTY--Kevin F. A friend, mentor and colleague. A man of great honor respected by all whose path he crossed. I will miss you deeply, my friend. Our condolences to the Haggarty family. Marilyn, Lindsay and Stuart Eisenkraft >>AD#
      