
        GRANNON -- Charles L. Charles (''Chuck'') Lee Grannon a former partner of Goldman, Sachs & Co., New York, NY, and resident of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ died March 7, 2003 at age 87. Grannon spent his entire career at Goldman Sachs & Co., joining the firm in 1945, he became a partner in 1959, and a limited partner in 1982. In 1972 he was Chairman of the Corporate Finance Committee of the SIA, a Financial Industry oversight group. Grannon served twice in the Navy, first during World War II from May 1942 until October 1945. During that time he served on Admiral Nimitz's staff in the South Pacific. He was called back in 1951 for the Korean War and served in Washington, DC. He became a Lieutenant Commander in 1951 and was discharged in 1952. He served as a director of Federal - Mogul Corporation from 1968 until 1986. He was also a life trustee of DePauw University in Greencastle, IN, and a lifetime honorary director and past Vice Chairman of the University of Iowa Foundation. Recently, the Valley Hospital Foundation of Ridgewood, NJ elected Grannon, a past president, as an Honorary Life Trustee. He has also served on the boards of several other charitable organizations including: President of the Center for Group Counseling in Boca Raton, FL; Trustee at the West Side Presbyterian Church in Ridgewood, NJ; President of the philanthropic Shamrock Society of Boca Raton, FL. He has also been active with the YMCA of Ridgewood, NJ as a Trustee for over twenty years. Through the generosity of Charles and Alice Fay, endowed scholarship programs in business have been established at both DePauw University and the University of Iowa. He was born on December 2, 1915 in Lafayette, IN, the son of Charles D. Grannon and Verena Ruth Benedict Grannon. He received a B.S. from Purdue University, Lafayette, IN in 1939. In 1941 he received an M.A. in Economics from the University of Iowa and married Alice Fay Conard. They were married until her death in December 1995. In 1988, both Charles and Alice Fay were honored by the University of Iowa with a joint Distinguished Alumni Service Award. He graduated from Jefferson High School, Lafayette, IN in 1934. He is survived by his four sons; Michael L. (Lee) of New Canaan, CT; Craig C. (Linda) of Burr Ridge IL; Charles P. (Sandi) of Bloomington, IN; Mark W. (Gai) of New York City, and two grandchildren, Emily and Christopher. A memorial service will be held Saturday, May 31st at 9:30am at C.C. Van Emburgh Funeral Home, 306 East Ridgewood Ave at Maple Avenue in Ridgewood, NJ. >>AD#
      