
        di MONTEZEMOLO--Alessandro, of Southampton, N.Y., and Rome, Italy, died on Tuesday, May 27. He was 84. Mr. di Montezemolo joined the Italian cavalry as a young man and remained a life-long equestrian. He rose to the rank of Major and was wounded in the North Africa Campaign. In 1950 he joined the staff of Dwight D. Eisenhower, then the commander of NATO forces in Europe. Mr. di Montezemolo went on to have a distinguished business career in Europe and the United States. He was a representative of the Italian insurance conglomerate Generali Group, and spent 10 years with the risk and insurance subsidiary of Marsh & McLennan Companies, where he headed the firm's international expansion, particularly in Europe. He retired as chairman of Marsh & McLennan Incorporated and as a director of Marsh & McLennan Companies in 1983. At the time of his death, Mr. di Montezemolo was a director of Salomon Smith Barney, a member of the advisory board of John Hopkins-SAIS Bologna Center, a member of the advisory board of the Museum of Women in the Arts, a member of the board of trustees of the Umberto Veronesi Foundation for the Advancement of Science, and chairman emeritus of the American Italian Cancer foundation. Mr. di Montezemolo is survived by Catherine Murray di Montezemolo, his wife of 45 years. Funeral services and interment will be held at a later date in Tuscany. Contributions in Mr. di Montezemolo's honor may be sent to: The American-Italian Cancer Foundation, 112 E. 71st St., NY, NY, 10021.
        di MONTEZEMOLO--Alessandro. Marsh & McLennan Companies (MMC) mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend Alessandro di Montezemolo, who joined the company in 1973 and was the chairman of our risk and insurance services subsidiary from 1982-1983. He served as a director of MMC from 1977-1983. His loyalty, guidance and counsel will always be remembered. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Catherine. Jeffrey W. Greenberg, Chairman, Marsh & McLennan Companies >>AD#
      