
        GOODE-William Josiah. The former Franklin H. Giddings Professor of Sociology at Columbia University, and former President of the American Sociological Association, died unexpectedly on May 4, 2003. The author of 20 books and over 80 articles on a wide range of topics, ranging from ''Religion Among the Primitives'' (1951) to ''World Changes in Divorce Patterns'' (1993), he was an Emeritus Professor of Sociology at Stanford University at the time of his death. William J. Goode was best known for his pioneering cross-cultural analysis of marriage and divorce. Drawing on his knowledge of nine languages, his pathbreaking monograph World Revolution and Family Patterns (The Free Press, 1963) analyzed data from over 50 countries to reveal the critical impact of family systems on what was previously assumed to be purely economic forces. Born in Houston TX in 1917, and encouraged by his high school debating coach Lyndon B. Johnson, he attended Rice Institute and the University of Texas, Austin. He served in World War II as a radarman on an attack transport ship in the Pacific. He joined the Columbia University faculty in 1950 where he taught for 27 years (1950-1977). In 1977 he became a Professor of Sociology at Stanford University, and in 1986 he joined the Sociology Department at Harvard University. He was a distinguished quest lecturer in China for the Chinese Academy of Science in 1986, and a Visiting Professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1992. Known as Si to his friends, he was often referred to as a ''Renaissance man'' excelling in a wide range of activities including painting, sculpting, sailing, mycology, tennis, and birding. In the past 5 years he won several tennis trophies and published an article on ''bird watching with your ears.'' He is survived by his wife, Lenore J. Weitzman, Robinson Professor of Sociology and Law at George Mason University; three children, Erich Goode, Visiting Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice at the University of Maryland and an Emeritus Professor of Sociology at the State University of New York at Stonybrook, Barbara Baldwin, Women's Health coordinator for the Washington DC Department of Heath; and Andrew Josiah Goode, an architect in Shingle Springs, CA; and a sister Rosalie Grizzle of Magnolia, TX. His family is planning a ceremony with military honors at the Columbarium of Arlington National Cemetery (date to be announced.) They would welcome contributions to the William J. Goode international fellowship which is being established in his honor by the American Sociological Ass'n in Washington, DC.
      