
        GOODBODY-Garrett, 57, of New York City and Sharon, CT, died suddenly of cardiac arrhythmia on May 2, 2003. He is survived by his spouse, Ann Goodbody. His parents were Garrett Goodbody Sr., a partner in Goodbody & Co., and Bambie McKenna Goodbody of Madison, New Jersey. He was a graduate of The Hotchkiss School, Yale University (St. Anthony's Hall)-Class of 1967, and of Harvard Business SchoolClass of 1971. Garrett served for two years in the Peace Corps, helping establish fishing cooperatives in Brazil and becoming fluent in Portuguese and Spanish. After graduating from Harvard, he joined Citibank, spending the early part of his 15-year career there in Brazil and Mexico. He subsequently became a Senior Executive Vice President of Marine Midland Bank and later, as President of New Milford Savings Bank, restructured the bank to profitability. He remained active in the industry, consulting on international banking issues related to USAID projects. At the time of his death, he was a director of numerous banks as well as a Principal of Goodbody/PL Capital LP, a partnership investing in domestic financial institutions. Issues of corporate governance and shareholder rights were of particular concern to him. He loved music, had a rich bass voice and was a member of various singing groups, including the 1967 Whiffenpoofs. Outdoor activities were a life-long interest, including sailing, skiing, running marathons in earlier years, hiking and especially golf more recently. He cared deeply about land use and was a member of the Board of Directors of the Sharon Land Trust. Garrett is survived also by his sister, Ducky G. Bancroft of Sharon, CT, his niece, Kelly Bancroft and his nephew, Alexander Bancroft. A memorial service will be held at The Hotchkiss School Chapel, Lakeville, CT on Friday, May 16th at 11:45AM. Additional information can be found at www.hotchkiss.org/alumnet or calling 860-435-3121. Gifts in his memory may be sent to the Sharon Land Trust at PO Box 1027, Sharon, CT 06069.
      