
        PERGAMENT-Irene. 74 of Old Westbury, NY, and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Murray for 53 years. Loving mother of Linda and Richard Horowitz, the late Sherri, and Caleb Koeppel, Bruce and Randi Pergament. Cherished grandmother of Jill and Jeffrey Libshutz, Kyle, Max and Sam Koeppel, Scott, Cole and Wesley Pergament. Adored sister of Phyllis and Kalman Markoe and loving sister-in-law of Robert and Lois Pergament. A true lady in every sense of the word. Her elegance and grace will be missed by all those that were touched by her love and kindness. Services will be at Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Rd, Great Neck, NY on May 12, 2003, at 12 noon. Contributions can be made to the Sherri Pergament Koeppel Cancer Research Laboratory at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Avenue, Suite B802, Bronx, NY 10461.
        PERGAMENT-Irene. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a dear friend and respected member of our Society of Founders, who with her late husband, Murray, established the Sherri Pergament Koeppel Cancer Research Laboratory at our institution in memory of their late daughter. To her children, Linda and Richard, and Bruce and Randi, and to the entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Dr. Norman Lamm, President Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Dr. I. David Goldman Director, Albert Einstein Cancer Center
        PERGAMENT-Irene. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are saddened by the passing of Irene Pergament, beloved wife of the late Murray Pergament. Cherished friends of UJA-Federation, Irene and Murray expressed an unwavering devotion to Jewish and humanitarian causes and gave their support to many beneficiary agencies in the UJA-Federation network, with a particular compassion for the elderly and infirm. We extend our deepest sympathy to her children, Bruce and Randi Pergament, and Linda and Richard Horowitz, and to the entire Pergament family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        PERGAMENT - Irene. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board, Administration and League of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation deeply mourn the passing of Irene Pergament, beloved wife of our former Trustee, the late Murray I. Pergament. Our heartfelt sympathies to son, Bruce and wife Randi; daughter, Linda Horwitz and her husband, Richard; son-in-law Caleb Koeppel and eight grandchildren. Barbara N. Kurshan, Chair, Board of Trustees. Michael N. Rosenblut, Executive VP/COO. Jonathan H. Freiberger and Steven Olken, Co-Chairs, Associate Board. Florence Spencer, Suzanne Sussman, Lillian Wilner, CoPresidents, ParkerLeague.
        PERGAMENT - Irene. The trustees and staff of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and benefactor, Irene Pergament, wife of the late Murray Pergament, and extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family, including Linda and Richard Horowitz, Bruce and Randi Pergament, Jill and Jeff Libshutz, and Sherri and Caleb Koeppel. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman Michael Dowling, President & CEO North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        PERGAMENT - Irene. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Irene Pergament, who with her late husband Murray were longtime ADL supporters. Irene served for many years on the Long Island Women's Division Board and was currently a member of the N.Y. Women's Division Board. We extend our condolences to the entire family. Glen A. Tobias, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director Carol Ostrow Hochfelder, Women's Division Chair
        PERGAMENT - Irene. Our heartfelt condolences on the untimely death of a wonderful woman. Our sympathy to Linda and Richard, Bruce and Randi, and all of the grandchildren. The Partners of Pryor Cashman Sherman and Flynn, LLP
        PERGAMENT - Irene. The Syracuse University family mourns the passing of a dear friend. Our heartfelt condolences to Linda and Richard Horowitz, Bruce and Randi Pergament and the entire family.
        PERGAMENT - Irene. Our thoughts and deepest sympathies are with the entire family on the loss of Irene. She will be greatly missed. The Jurist Family
      