
        BERKOWITZ-Mortimer Jr. Age 87, died on May 5, 2003 at his home in New York City. Beloved husband of Marjory for more than 50 years and father of Hugh J. Freund and Betsy F. Perry, both of New York City, John Berkowitz (River) of Putney, VT., and Mortimer Berkowitz III (Amelia) of New York City. Adored grandfather (''Papa'') of Caroline Loomis, Daisy Freund, Eli Berkowitz, Charlotte, Hayward, Thomas and William Berkowitz. Brother-in-law of Phyllis and Wilbur Levin and Mary Anne and Douglas Schwalbe. Adored uncle to seven nieces and nephews and many grand-nieces and nephews. Born in 1915 in Brookline, Massachusetts, Mortimer graduated from the Taft School, Class of '33 and Dartmouth College, Class of '37, where he was a member of the Green Key Society, the Casque and Gauntlet Senior Society and Palaeopitus. Following in the footsteps of his father, Mortimer began his career as a reporter with the Boston Herald and as a police reporter with the Cleveland Ohio News. Mortimer's career spanned over 50 years in the newspaper and magazine business where he was involved with publishing, advertising and marketing. He served as a Lieutenant Commander during WWII on the destroyer, U.S.S. Livermore. After the war, Mortimer joined the American Weekly as an advertising representative and then moved to Woman's Day Magazine. From 1962 until 1966 Mortimer was with BBDO before joining Fawcett Publishing in 1966 where he was Vice President and Advertising Director. From 1969 to 1990 Mortimer was the CEO of Home Garden Publishing, Universal Publishing and the Mortimer Berkowitz Company which served eight Ivy League Alumni Magazines. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St on Wednesday, May 7, from 2-5 & 7-9PM. Funeral services will be held at Frank E. Campbell on Thursday, May 8, at 1:30PM. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers donations may be made in his name to the Dartmouth College Fund, 6066 Development Office, Hanover, New Hampshire 03755.
      