
        TAPLIN-Frank E. Jr. It is with tremendous sadness and a profound sense of loss that the officers, directors, managers and staff of The Metropolitan Opera mourn the death of Frank Taplin, a key figure in The Met's history, whose involvement with this house over many years was integral to the success of our company today. President of The Metropolitan Opera's board of directors from 1977 to 1984, Frank Taplin was first elected to the board in 1961. He led The Met's National Council from 1961 to 1964, and was an honorary director at the time of his death. Frank was elected president of The Met at a time of dire financial difficulty for the company. His energy, optimism and belief in the glory of music, as well as his eloquent ability to persuade others to share his excitement and give their support, transformed our company. During his presidency, Frank launched the Golden Horseshoe, a key group of major donors. He also initiated the Centennial Campaign, The Met's first endowment drive, which raised one hundred million dollars. His practical focus on the bottom line made him indispensable to The Metropolitan Opera at a critical period, and his generous heart, humor, musical talent and personal grace endeared him to all who were fortunate to know him. Among his many gifts to The Met is our company cafeteria, which serves every day as the central, informal meeting place for artists, technical and administrative staff, stage crew, ushers and guards, indeed the entire Met family. His pride in the excellence of this house, his wisdom to plan not just for the present but for the future, and his joy in this company's artistic achievements will continue to inspire us all. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Peg, and to their children and step-children, Caroline Taplin Ruschell, Jennifer Taplin Jerome, David F. Taplin, Jennifer Sichel Dickerman, Martha Sichel Kelly, and Susan Sichel. Bruce Crawford Chairman Emeritus James W. Kinnear, Honorary Chairman of the Board Beverly Sills Chairman of the Board Mrs. Ezra K. Zilkha Vice Chairman Paul M. Montrone President William C. Morris, Chairman, Executive Committee Joseph Volpe General Manager James Levine Artistic Director
      