
        ROBERTS - Leanne Bovet. Passed away on Wednesday, May 7, 2003, after a short illness. She was at home, surrounded by her family. Leanne grew up on the Borel Family estate in San Mateo. It was there that she began her lifelong love of animals. She was known in the neighborhood for her unusual pets. As a 4H project she raised a lamb that bonded with the family's dog. The two would roam the neighborhoods to the surprise of the residents there. As a result she got to know the local SPCA well. She subsequently served on the Board of the San Francisco SPCA. Mr. Ed Sayres, President of the SPCA, had this to say: ''We have lost a great friend and supporter. During her long tenure on our Board of Directors, Leanne brought passion, vision and unwavering support to our mission. She was engaged, forward-thinking and dedicated to the cause of saving homeless animals. Thanks to a lead gift from Leanne and George Roberts, The Roberts Medical Center at the San Francisco SPCA will provide a new level of health care for animals throughout the Bay Area. The Roberts Center will be a lasting tribute to Leanne's remarkable compassion and generosity.'' Leanne was a long time member of the Board of Directors of the San Francisco Zoo. President of the Zoo, David Anderson said, ''Leanne Roberts was a cherished friend of the San Francisco Zoo. She was devoted to the animals and helped us ensure the very best care possible for animals at the Zoo. We will always remember her quiet, graceful strength.'' Additionally, Leanne served as a Board Member of the SFMOMA. She had an uncanny ability to appreciate the best in art. Leanne was educated at Orme school in Arizona, and Pitzer College in Claremont, where she met her future husband George. They were married over 35 years. She is survived by her husband, and their three children, Eric, Mark and Courtney, and her two daughters-in-law, Poppy and Kelley. Leanne is also survived by her mother, Mrs. Henry Howard, her two sisters Mrs. Howard Egger-Bovet and Mrs. Robert I. MacDonnell, and her beloved companions Sherman, Chauncey and Lykon. Her eldest son and daughter will carry on her legacy by taking over the management of Stone Canyon Ranch, where she raised world-class American Horses. Leanne will be remembered for her grace, poise, her style, her quiet strength, her serenity, her love and devotion to her family, friends, and all of God's creatures. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be made in her memory to the San Francisco Zoo, 1 Zoo Road, San Francisco, CA 94132 or the SF SPCA, 2500-16th Street, San Francisco, CA 94103. Services will be private.
      