
        KAPLAN--Allan S. The employees of Lehman Brothers deeply mourn the loss of our trusted, loyal and beloved colleague and friend for 36 years. Mr. Kaplan was a vice chairman of Lehman Brothers and also served as chairman of the Firm's Investment Banking Commitment Committee, Fairness Opinion Committee and Investment Committee. During his career at Lehman Brothers, he had many different responsibilities, including research, investment banking, commercial paper and credit, earning the highest respect from employees at all levels. Importantly, he served as a pivotal bridge among all of our businesses, as well as a bridge between the Firm's history and the present, providing us with his invaluable perspective, wisdom, experience and advice. We are forever grateful for his tremendous contributions and unwavering loyalty to the Firm. His loss is felt in every corner of the organization. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and prayers to his wife, Alice, his children and grandchildren. Richard S. Fuld Jr. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph M. Gregory Chief Operating Officer Bradley H. Jack Chief Operating Officer
        KAPLAN--Allan S. His enormous depth of experience, his extraordinary character and his trusted counsel were hallmarks of his tenure with us for 36 years, as were the deep friendships he formed with many of his colleagues. Our heartfelt sympathies go to his wife, Alice, and to his family. Hugh McGee, on behalf of his Investment Banking Division colleagues
        KAPLAN--Allan S. We are deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend Allan Kaplan. Cynthia and I shared many wonderful times together with the Kaplans and will miss Allan's humor and common sense. Our hearts go out to his wife, Alice, children Isobel, Seth and Caroline and their children. Cynthia and Eliot Fried
        KAPLAN--Allan S. A remarkable man, whose vision helped guide us over many years, and whose genuine friendship we valued above all else. Our deepest respects go to his wife Alice, and to his family. His wisdom, leadership, generosity and compassion will always be remembered. Niki and Joe Gregory
        KAPLAN--Allan S. He was a true and loyal friend, who inspired and enriched the lives of those of us who had the privilege to know him. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family, his wife, Alice, and his children and grandchildren. He will be deeply missed. Kathleen & Richard Fuld Jr.
        KAPLAN--Allan S. A most valued and respected colleague, but above all, cherished friend. His loss is simply unfathomable. Our prayers and sympathies go out to his beloved Alice, his children and grandchildren. May you be comforted in knowing how much he loved all of you. Fran Kittredge
        KAPLAN--Allan S. He defined integrity and loyalty, and was an inspiring mentor, colleague and valued friend to many of us for many years. We are saddened by this great loss, and our deepest sympathies go to his wife, Alice, and to his family. Karin and Brad Jack >>AD#
      