
        PERGAMENT-Irene. 74 of Old Westbury, NY, and Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Murray for 53 years. Loving mother of Linda and Richard Horowitz, the late Sherri, and Caleb Koeppel, Bruce and Randi Pergament. Cherished grandmother of Jill and Jeffrey Libshutz, Kyle, Max and Sam Koeppel, Scott, Cole and Wesley Pergament. Adored sister of Phyllis and Kalman Markoe and loving sister-in-law of Robert and Lois Pergament. A true lady in every sense of the word. Her elegance and grace will be missed by all those that were touched by her love and kindness. Services will be at Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Rd, Great Neck, NY on May 12, 2003, at 12 noon. Contributions can be made to the Sherri Pergament Koeppel Cancer Research Laboratory at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Avenue, Suite B802, Bronx, NY 10461.
        PERGAMENT-Irene. Devoted and adored wife of the late Murray Pergament. Beloved mother to Linda and Richard Horowitz, Bruce and Randi Pergament, and Sheri and Caleb Koeppel. Adored by all her wonderful grandchildren. She was a lady of valor. She will always be remembered for her love of life and her many friends. Lois and Bob Pergament and Family
        PERGAMENT - Irene. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Irene, wife of our former esteemed member Murray Pergament. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Linda and Richard, Bruce and Randi and the entire family. Board of Governors Lowell Kwiat, President
        PERGAMENT-Irene. We express our deepest condolences to Linda and Richie, Jill and Jeff, Bruce and Randi, and their entire families on the untimely loss of Irene. Her style, spirit, strength and courage will always be an inspiration to all those she touched. Marilyn and Steven Howard Lauren and Josh Glick
        PERGAMENT - Irene. Our hearts and prayers are with our dear friends Linda and Richie, Jill and Jeff, Bruce and Randi on the loss of their beloved mother and grandmother. May her memory be a blessing and a source of comfort for you always. Love, Lissy and Allen Kaplan, Meryl and B.J. Sara, Lauren and Phil Abate
        PERGAMENT - Irene. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Irene Pergament. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary
        PERGAMENT - Irene. Our deepest condolences to our dear friends Linda, Richie, Jill, Jeff, Randi, Bruce, Scott, Cole, Wesley, Kyle, Max and Sam. May her memory be a source of comfort for you always. Love, Betsy, Bob, Ned, Nancy and Stephen
        PERGAMENT-Irene. We are deeply saddened by the untimely death of a wonderful mother and grandmother. Our deepest condolences to Linda and Richard, Jill and Jeff, Randi and Bruce, and all the grandchildren. Sidney, Grace and Joanne
        PERGAMENT - Irene. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        PERGAMENT - Irene. Our sincerest sympathy to Linda and Richie, Jill and Jeff, and Bruce and Randi, on the loss of Irene. May your wonderful memories sustain you through this difficult time. The Kwiat Family
        PERGAMENT-Irene. An elegant and beautiful woman who loved her family and was deeply loved by them. The Libshutz and Rosier Families
        PERGAMENT-Irene. Dear friend for 35 years. Always loyal, always fair, always thoughtful. You were the best. We will miss you. Gloria and Sherman
        PERGAMENT-Irene. We will cherish your memory as you cherished life. Goodbye dear friend, we will miss you. Joan and Joe Lehman
      