
        MOORE-Paul, Jr., 83, bishop, activist, father of Honor, Paul, Adelia, Rosemary, George, Marian, Daniel, Susanna and Patience, brother to William H. Moore, and grandfather of 19, died May 1st, 2003 at home in NYC. Funeral and requiem mass to celebrate his life and work at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, 110th and Amsterdam, NYC, Saturday, May 10th, at 4 PM. Reception to follow. The body will lie in state at the cathedral May 9th, 5-8PM, and May 10th, 9AM-2PM. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Humanitarian Project (Paul Moore Medical Clinic, East Timor), PO Box 32307, Washington, DC 20007.
        MOORE-The Rt. Rev. Paul, Jr. The Pilgrims of the U.S. are deeply saddened by the death of their distinguished member and vice president who was for 17 years Episcopal Bishop of New York, a diocese of 203 congregations in ten counties. Here and earlier, in Jersey City, Indianapolis and Washington, he pursued his many selfless, encompassing and supportive causes, extending to the entire Anglican Communion and beyond to the devastated island of East Timor. We express our heartfelt sympathy to his nine children and nineteen grandchildren. Henry Luce III President Laurence C. Windsor, Jr. Honorary Secretary Eben W. Pyne Honorary Treasurer
        MOORE-Bishop Paul, Jr. The Board and staff of the Seamen's Church Institute of New York & New Jersey, together with George D. Benjamin, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, and the Rev. Dr. Jean R. Smith, Executive Director, express their deepest sorrow at the death of the Rt. Rev. Paul Moore, Jr. Since 1972, Bishop Moore served on the Institute's Board of Trustees with distinction and was supportive of SCI's ministry to mariners. From 19721989 during his tenure as the Episcopal Bishop of New York, he also served the Institute as its Honorary President. SCI grew stronger due to his wise counsel and wholehearted support. We send our heartfelt condolences to his family.
        MOORE-The Rt. Rev. Paul, Jr. The Dean, Board of Trustees, Board of Regents and staff of The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine mourn the death of the beloved 13th Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New York. Under his inspired vision and leadership, the Cathedral opened wide its doors as a great house of prayer for all people and the setting for creative programs and outreach activities that continue to this day. We thank God for his many years of devoted service to the Church, the people of New York City and the world. The Very Reverend Dr. James A. Kowalski, Dean Henry L. King, Esq., President of the Board
        MOORE-Paul. The Rt. Rev. Mark S. Sisk, Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New York, joins all the Bishops, Clergy and People of the Diocese in mourning the death of our beloved Bishop Paul Moore. He was a great leader of the Episcopal Church, and his ministry embodied the Gospel message as he fought for justice and the rights of the oppressed. His passion for life grew out of his love for all of God's people. We shall miss him deeply.
        MOORE-Paul Jr. His compassion, his determination, his good humor and his deep devotion to our many splendored city inspired his fellow board members, our staff and everyone who knew him. Osborn Elliott, Chairman Michael E. Clark, President Citizens Committee for NYC
      