
        MILLER-Dr. Daniel G. The Board of Trustees, staff, and worldwide family of the Israel Cancer Research Fund (ICRF) express profound sorrow at the passing of Dr. Daniel G. Miller, founder of ICRF, eminent scientist, distinguished pioneer in cancer research, and caring physician. Through his creation of ICRF, Dr. Miller's vision and dedication established the State of Israel as a world center for brilliant, innovative cancer research. A member of the President's Commission on Heart Disease, Cancer, and Stroke, Dr. Miller was President Emeritus of the Strang Cancer Prevention Center. His legacy is an enhancement of science that will add innumerable future lives to the many thousands he saved during his lifetime. His passing leaves a void for science, Israel, ICRF, and his family that will forever remain unfilled. Yashar Hirshaut, M.D. President, ICRF Leah Susskind Chairperson, ICRF
        MILLER-Daniel G., M.D. The Board of Trustees and staff of Strang Cancer Prevention Center mourn the passing of their beloved past president and Board of Trustees member, Daniel G. Miller, M.D., who served as President of Strang (formerly the Strang Clinic) from 1969 to 1995. Dr. Miller was a visionary in his commitment to the prevention and early detection of cancer and a strong advocate of cancer research. He will be greatly missed by his former patients, the cancer research community, and all who have been touched by his warmth and sincerity throughout the years. Strang has established the Dr. Daniel G. Miller Cancer Research Fellowship Fund in his memory. To make a contribution call 212794-4900 x156. Strang Cancer Prevention Center, 428 East 72nd St, NY, NY 10021.
        MILLER-Daniel G. The Rogosin Institute deeply mourns the passing of Daniel G. Miller, M.D., distinguished scientist, compassionate physician, devoted friend and collaborator in our cancer research. The Institute's director, board and staff extend heartfelt condolences to Dr. Miller's wife, family and friends.
        MILLER-Dr. Daniel G., M.D. On May 7, 2003. He was everything to my father, Manny Rosenblatt, and everything to me; a great friend, a comfort and a source of strength. I will love and miss him always. My deepest sympathies and love are with his wife, Helene, and family. Linda R. Kaminow
      