
        BERGAN-Susan Bancroft, 61 of New York City and Morris, CT. Died on Sunday May 18th, 2003. Beloved wife of Philip, proud mother of David of New York City and Jeffrey of San Francisco, CA. Loving mother-in-law-to-be of David's fiance Braden Cleveland of New York City and Charleston, SC. Devoted daughter of the late Dr. George H. and Mercedes W. Bancroft of Litchfield, CT and loving sister of the late Malcolm D. Bancroft of Ibiza, Spain. Graduate of Wellesley College (1963) and The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy (1964). As a Vice President of Citibank, N.A. in the 1970's and 80's she was responsible for loan syndication in the western hemisphere and in that role she played a major role in the restructuring of Latin American debt and in the early development of a market for the trading of bank loans. In 1985 she left Citibank to become Senior Vice President of Drexel Burnham Lambert. There, in 1987, she and her colleagues created one of the first funds to be devoted to investment in emerging markets debt and equity and she served as a manager of this fund (now TCW Worldwide Opportunities Fund) from its inception. Managing Director of Trust Company of the West from 1990. Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Brick Presbyterian Church in New York from 1991 to 1994; Co-Chair of the Stanford University Parents Advisory Board from 1997 to 1999; active in alumni affairs of both Wellesley College and The Fletcher School. Also a member of various business and professional organiztions. A person of rare energy and enthusiasm, caring and generous, with boundless curiosity concerning the world and its people, a pioneering woman in international finance, a dedicated church member, a wonderful cook, and a passionate fan of New York City. A loving wife, mother and friend. A funeral service will be held on Thursday May 22nd at Brick Presbyterian Church in New York City at 11am. In lieu of flowers the family suggests that contributions be made to Wellesley College, Development Services and Donor Relations, 106 Central Street, Wellesley, MA 02481 or to the Brick Presbyterian Church, 62 E. 92 St, NY, NY 10128-1398.
        BERGAN-Susan Bancroft. A woman of substance, intelligence, focus and humor, a loving and generous spirit. A fearless individual who lived life to the fullest. An inspiration to us all and a trailblazer for women in banking and finance since the 1960's, she made sure everyone and every day counted. She was heart and soul of our business and a treasured friend. Our love to her family and her many other friends. Julie Diez, Jerry Finneran, Penny Foley, Edna Gueson, Maureen Nesfield, Stacey Riccardo, David Robbins TCW Worldwide
      