
        DENSEN - GERBER - Ju dianne: psychiatrist, lawyer, educator, daughter of Gustave Gerber and Beatrice Densen died on May 11, 2003 in her sleep from complications of cancer. She was graduated from Bryn Mawr College (1956) and received her JD (1959) from Columbia University, MD (1963) from New York University, and D.Sc. (Hon. 1983) Lebanon Valley College. She dedicated her professional life to fighting substance abuse, child abuse, battery of women, and pornography. She pioneered the therapeutic community concept, which was embodied by Odyssey House, which she founded. Through her tireless work Odyssey House expanded to have facilities in over a dozen states and 3 continents. Through the hands-onwork that she did and her prolific writings (including 3 books: Drugs, Sex, Parents and You; We Maineline Dreams; and Walk in My Shoes), she influenced societies conception of addiction and in many ways formulated its approach to treatment. She was appointed to numerous local, state, and federal bodies to address these issues and served as personal advisor to several members of congress. She received innumerable awards for her work including a Congressional Certificate of Merit, Nobless Order of the White Cross (from the government of Austrailia), Dame Commander of the Knights of Malta, and appointed an Honorary New York State Fire Chief. She was on the faculty and lectured at several medical and law schools. She directly touched the lives of tens of thousands of drug-addicts and abused children and women and developed an approach which helped hundreds of thousands more. She is predeceased by her son, Jud, and her infant daughter, Julianne. She is survived by her three children (Trissa, Lindsey and Sarah), daughter-in-law (Carolyn Lasar), two grandchildren (Eli and Ruby) and ex-husband (Michael Baden). Funeral Services will be held at All Souls Church, 80th Street and Lexington Ave, at 3:30pm on Tuesday May 13, 2003. Family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St., before church services, 1:30-2:30. In lieu of flowers please make contributions to Flint Odessy House, 529 Martin Luther King, Jr. Ave., Flint, MI 48502 or The Breast Cancer Research Foundation in memory of Judianne Densen Gerber, 645 Madison Ave., Suite 1209, NY, NY 10021
        DENSEN - GERBER - Ju dianne. The Women's Forum records with sorrow the death of Judianne DensenGerber. She was a woman of extraordinary accomplish ment and a long time colleague. Deepest sympathy is extended to her family and friends. Diane Perlmutter, President
      