
        ROSENBLUM -- Marvin J. Died on May 7, 2003, in Chicago, IL, at the age of 60. He was the devoted husband of Gina (nee Hirsch) for 32 years. He was the loving father of Rachel and Jonathan Rosenfeld of NYC, David and Liora Rosenblum, of Riverdale, NY, Sara and Mark Ginsberg of Clifton, NJ, and Lea Rosenblum of Chicago, IL. He was also the adoring grandfather of Joseph Ginsberg and Gabriella Rosenblum. He is survived by his father William Rosenblum of Chicago, IL, and by his sisters, Myrna Epstein of Scranton, PA, Sandra Hertzberg, of Monsey, NY, and Rosalyn Fishler of Chicago, IL. Marvin received Rabbinic Ordination from the Telshe Yeshiva of Wickliffe, OH (Class of '65). He loved, learned and practiced Torah throughout his entire life. He graduated from DePaul University, Chicago, IL (Class of '68), and was a graduate of the University of Chicago Law School (Class of '71). He served as Senior Law Clerk to the late US District Court Judge, Abraham Lincoln Marovitz. Marvin was a brilliant lawyer and served as General Counsel to Matchbox Toys, Ltd. As a successful entrepreneur, he founded several companies and served as a Board Director (First Commercial Bank of Chicago, Excalibur Technologies Corp, Innapharma, Inc, The Osmotics Corp and Kahr Pharmaceuticals). He was the executive producer and guiding spirit of the remake of George Orwell's ''1984'' starring John Hurt and Richard Burton. Marvin was an avid reader and had friends around the world. His dreams and visions knew no intellectual or geographical bounds. Marvin was beloved by family, friends and associates who were charmed by his sharp wit, keen mind and gentle spirit. Honesty, loyalty and fidelity were his constant companions. Eulogies were delivered in Chicago, IL, and Queens, NY, on May 8, 2003. Marvin Rosenblum was laid to rest on May 9, 2003, in Jerusalem, Israel, on Har HaMenuchot. Shiva was held in Chicago, IL, and concluded on May 15, 2003. May his memory serve as a blessing to all who knew him. >>AD#
      