
        HUPPER - Dorothy Healy. Died peacefully on April 25, 2003 at her home in NYC, in her 104th year. Wife of the late Roscoe H. Hupper, a longtime leading admiralty lawyer and senior partner of the Burlingham, Hupper & Kennedy firm. Mother of John R. Hupper of NYC, Roger W. Hupper of Tampa, FL and the late Joel H. Hupper; grandmother of John R. Hupper Jr., Gail J. Hupper, Craig W. Hupper, Anne H. Gans and David R. Hupper; great grandmother of five great granddaughters and three great-grandsons. Daughter of the late Dr. Herbert H. Healy and Maud Wallace Healy of Grand Forks, ND. Graduate of the University of North Dakota; since the 1920s a resident of NYC and Martinsville, ME. Long active in and Chairman of the Music Committee of the Studio Club of the NYC YWCA. For over 50 years a member of The Blue Hill Troupe Ltd, for which she performed many of the leading contralto roles in Gilbert & Sullivan operettas. President of the Board of Trustees of the Presbyterian Home for Aged Women and thereafter of the James Lenox House Association. Elder and longtime Chairman of the Public Worship and Music Committees of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church. Services at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church at 11 A.M. on Thursday, May 8, 2003; interment thereafter at the Ridge Church Cemetery in Martinsville, ME. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the James Lenox House Association, Inc., 49 East 73rd Street, NY, NY 10021 or to the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Avenue, NY, NY 10021 would be appreciated.
        HUPPER - Dorothy. The Board of Directors of the James Lenox House Association mourns the death of our revered honorary board member and former President, Dorothy Hupper, on April 25th, who devoted many years to our organization. She oversaw the development and construction of James Lenox House on the site of the former Presbyterian Home for Aged Women in the 1970s. Her steadfastness and indomitable spirit will guide us. Paul J. Massey, Jr., President Friedhilde Milburn, Exec. Dir.
      