
        KAPLAN-Allan S. 68, of Greenwich, Connecticut, died May 19, 2003. Mr. Kaplan was a vice chairman of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and chairman of the Firm's Investment Banking Commitment Committee, Fairness Opinion Committee and Investment Committee. Throughout his 36 - year career at Lehman Brothers, he worked in numerous areas of the Firm, including research, investment banking, commercial paper and credit. Mr. Kaplan was graduated, magna cum laude, from Yale College in 1957 and was a member of the Governing Board of the Yale University Art Gallery and the University's Development Board. In addition, Mr. Kaplan was a vice chairman of the American Architectural Foundation and a trustee of the New York Studio School. A philanthropist who was active in fundraising, he was chairman of the Lehman Brothers UJAFederation campaign and was involved in the $1.5 billion campaign for Yale. Among his many interests, he was an avid art collector and wine enthusiast. He is survived by his devoted wife of 46 years, Alice, and by his beloved children, Seth, Isabel and Caroline, and cherished grandchildren, Jason, Abigail, Justin, Joshua and Jack, and sisters, Barbara Sebiri and Naomi Eisenberger. Funeral services will be held at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street in New York City on May 21 at 11:45 AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to the UJA Federation of New York, or the Yale University Art Gallery.
        KAPLAN-Allan S. on May 20, 2003. Beloved husband of Alice. Father of Seth, Isabel and Caroline. Grandfather of Jason, Abigail, Justin, Joshua and Jack. Brother of Barbara Sebiri and Naomi Eisenberger. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to UJA Federation or Yale University Art Gallery. Services on Wednesday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        KAPLAN-Allan S. The employees of Lehman Brothers deeply mourn the loss of our trusted, loyal and beloved colleague and friend for 36 years. Mr. Kaplan was a vice chairman of Lehman Brothers and also served as chairman of the Firm's Investment Banking Commitment Committee, Fairness Opinion Committee and Investment Committee. During his career at Lehman Brothers, he had many different responsibilities, including research, investment banking, commercial paper and credit, earning the highest respect from employees at all levels. Importantly, he served as a pivotal bridge among all of our businesses, as well as a bridge between the Firm's history and the present, providing us with his invaluable perspective, wisdom, experience and advice. We are forever grateful for his tremendous contributions and unwavering loyalty to the Firm. His loss is felt in every corner of the organization. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and prayers to his wife, Alice, his children and grandchildren. Richard S. Fuld Jr. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph M. Gregory Chief Operating Officer Bradley H. Jack Chief Operating Officer
        KAPLAN-Allan S. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Allan S. Kaplan, beloved husband of Alice, and a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Allan served on the Wall Street Division Steering Committee and chaired the Lehman Brothers Campaign Committee. Known for his warmth and generosity, Allan was dedicated to helping young people at his firm become involved in philanthropic endeavors. We extend our deepest sympathies to Alice & to the entire Kaplan family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        KAPLAN-Allan S. His enormous depth of experience, his extraordinary character and his trusted counsel were hallmarks of his tenure with us for 36 years, as were the deep friendships he formed with many of his colleagues. Our heartfelt sympathies go to his wife, Alice, and to his family. Hugh McGee, on behalf of his Investment Banking Division colleagues
        KAPLAN-Allan S. A remarkable man, whose vision helped guide us over many years, and whose genuine friendship we valued above all else. Our deepest respects go to his wife Alice, and to his family. His wisdom, leadership, generosity and compassion will always be remembered. Niki and Joe Gregory
        KAPLAN-Allan S. He was a true and loyal friend, who inspired and enriched the lives of those of us who had the privilege to know him. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family, his wife, Alice, and his children and grandchildren. He will be deeply missed. Kathleen & Richard Fuld Jr.
        KAPLAN-Allan S. A most valued and respected colleague, but above all, cherished friend. His loss is simply unfathomable. Our prayers and sympathies go out to his beloved Alice, his children and grandchildren. May you be comforted in knowing how much he loved all of you. Fran Kittredge
        KAPLAN-Allan S. He defined integrity and loyalty, and was an inspiring mentor, colleague and valued friend to many of us for many years. We are saddened by this great loss, and our deepest sympathies go to his wife, Alice, and to his family. Karin and Brad Jack
        KAPLAN-Allan. The Partners and Associates of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett are deeply saddened by the passing of their long time friend and colleague, Allan Kaplan. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his entire family. Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
      