
        BERKMAN--Allen H. Age 91, died Thursday, May 29, 2003 after a brief illness. Born Cadiz, Ohio, January 7, 1912. Beloved husband of the late Selma Wiener Berkman; loving father of Barbara and Alan Ackerman, Susan and David Rahm, Richard and Toni Berkman, Helen and John Habbert, James and McKey Berkman; proud grandfather of Alan, Elizabeth, Peter, Katie, Billy, Ben, Lisa, Dan, Caroline, Rachel, Julie, Philip, Nellie, Winston, Claire and the late Beth; also blessed great grandfather of Max, Alice, Simon, Eva and Stanley; dear brother of Louis Berkman and the late Jack N. Berkman and Ceil Monheim; graduate of the University of Michigan and Harvard Law School; esteemed lawyer, civic leader and philanthropist in Pittsburgh, PA. Services at Rodef Shalom Temple in Pittsburgh on Sunday, June 1, 2003. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the American Jewish Committee, 165 E. 56 St., NY, NY 10022, Hebrew Union College, 1 W. 4th St., NY, NY 10012, or Manhattan School of Music for the Selma Wiener Berkman Scholarship, 120 Claremont Avenue, NY, NY 10027.
        BERKMAN--Allen H. The American Jewish Committee is deeply sadened by the death of our longtime leader, major benefactor and dear friend, Allen Berkman. Allen was a beloved member of our National Board of Governors, National Leadership Council and a founding member and former President of AJC's Pittsburgh Chapter. He, along with his late wife Selma, devoted much of their time and energy to the Chapter, and Allen was honored in 2001 with AJC's Human Relations Award for his efforts. A true philanthropist who sought to help young people learn to live together in mutual respect and understanding, Allen generously endowed our Catholic/Jewish Educational Enrichment Program (C/JEEP), allowing AJC to expand this innovative interreligious exploration to Pittsburgh. His love of the Jewish people was matched by his overarching compassion and humanity for all. He will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his son and our fellow Board member, Richard, and his wife Toni; Barbara and Alan Ackerman; Susan and David Rahm; Helen and John Habbert; James and McKey Berkman; sixteen grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Exec. Dir.
        BERKMAN--Allen H. The President, Chancellor Emeritus, Boards of Governors and Overseers, Faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion record with profound sorrow the death of Allen H. Berkman, generous benefactor and devoted friend of the College-Institute. Mr. Berkman, a member of the Board of Governors for more than three decades, along with his beloved wife, Selma, of blessed memory, established the distinguished Solomon B. Freehof Professorship of Jewish Law and Practice at the CollegeInstitute. As a longtime member of both the Budget and Management and the Pension and Benefits committees, he served the college family with devotion. He helped guide HUC-JIR during a period of far-reaching decisions and he offered his wise counsel and his astute perspective with quiet dedication. We offer our sincerest condolences to his children and the entire family, whose loss we profoundly share. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, President Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritus Burton Lehman, Chair of the Board of Governors >>AD#
      