
        WOLLOCH--Zygfryd B. On June 17, 2003. Beloved husband of Helene. Loving father of Norbert and Claudia, Richard and Nora, Michael and Beth, Daniel and Valerie. Cherished grandfather of Samuel, Jonathan, Adam, Deena, Elana, Zachary, Hannah, Allyson and Charles. A Holocaust survivor, philanthropist and lover of Israel... a true Renaissance man. Services were held at Beth El Synagogue on June 18, 2003. We will miss you ''Popop''.
        WOLLOCH--Zygfryd B. The President, the Board of Trustees, and the entire Montefiore Medical Center community deeply mourn the death of our esteemed colleague, Zygfryd Wolloch. A philanthropist dedicated to the well-being of the 1.5 million New Yorkers we serve, Zygfryd Wolloch gave unstinting service to the Montefiore Board of Trustees, first, as a representative of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine's Board of Overseers, and later, as a Trustee of the Medical Center in his own right. He was deeply committed to supporting brain tumor and stroke research and a strong supporter of The Children's Hospital at Montefiore, serving as a founding member of the Steering Committee during its very formative years. He served as well as a member of the Medical Center's Real Estate and Facilities Committee. A connoisseur and collector of fine modern art, Mr. Wolloch and his wife, Helene, donated a magnificent sculpture, ''Genesis'', by Judith Brown which is installed prominently on the Medical Center's grounds. To his wife, Helene, his four sons, Richard, Michael and Doctors Daniel and Norbert Wolloch, a distinguished member of the Montefiore medical staff, their wives and his nine grandchildren, we extend our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences. Spencer Foreman, MD President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        WOLLOCH--Zygfryd. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a dear friend and highly respected member of our Board of Overseers, whose commitment to our institution and to medical research and education spanned more than four decades. As a founding member and past chairman of the Einstein Men's Division, he guided the growth and development of the Division during its formative years. He and his wife, Helene, a member of the Board of Directors of both our National Women's Division and of its Westchester-Fairfield Chapter, demonstrated their concern for improving the human condition as distinguished members of our Society of Founders. To Mrs. Wolloch, to their sons, Norbert, Richard, Michael and Daniel (Einstein Class of '87), and to the entire family, we offer our heartfelt sympathy. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Dr. Norman Lamm Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        WOLLOCH -- Zygfryd. Our hearts are so saddened by the sudden death of our dear, dear friend Zyg Wolloch. We have cherished 47 years of a very special friendship. Our love goes out to his wonderful wife Helene and all their children Norbert and Claudia, Richard and Nora, Michael and Beth and Daniel and Valerie and their nine beloved grandchildren. Rita and Philip Rosen Phyllis, Wendy and Michael >>AD#
      