
        HIRSCH--Philip J. Died on June 27 after a brief illness at home in Scottsdale, Arizona. Devoted and loving husband, father and grandfather, he is survived by his wife, Judith; son, Lawrence; daughter-inlaw, Iva, and grandchildren, Adina and Rebecca. He leaves behind many served wisely and faithfully and many shaped by his example as a distinguished lawyer with a lifelong commitment to charity. Private services will be followed by interment in Tucson, Arizona. Donations in his memory may be made to the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, Inc.
        HIRSCH--Philip. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with great sorrow the passing of Philip Hirsch, president of the Jewish Board of Guardians (a JBFCS predecessor agency) from 1972-1976, and later Chairman of the Board. Phil stood out among communal leaders for his incredible diligence, intelligence and genuine commitment to providing outstanding services to New Yorkers in need. He was thorough, analytical and took his job as a Board member very seriously while always respectful and supportive of professional staff. Among his most important contributions was his active involvement on the Hawthorne Cedar Knolls School Management Committe, the agency's largest institutional facility, which he became chair of in 1968. He served as President of the school board of the HCKS Union Free School District. Phil worked in various capacities at UJA-Federation where he was a passionate advocate for the agency's work on behalf of children and families. His wife Judith has been a caring trustee and was a key force in shaping the agency's volunteer services division. Phil's commitment extended to the many ways he engaged the interest and support of his law firm, Proskauer, Rose, Goetz and Mendelsohn, where he followed in the footsteps of another great JBG leader, Walter Mendelsohn. Phil loved the Jewish Board and we loved him. Our hearts go out to Judy, and their son and daughter-in-law, and granddaughter. Jean L. Troubh, Pres. Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Exec V.P. and CEO Paul Levine, CSW Assoc. Exec. VP
        HIRSCH--Philip J. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Philip J. Hirsch, a cherished friend. He was a member of UJA-Federation's Council of Overseers; was chair of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, a UJA-Federation beneficiary agency; and was president of the Henry Kaufmann Foundation, which helped establish the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds, another UJAFederation beneficiary. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Judith, and to their entire family. May Philip's legacy be a source of comfort during these difficult times. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay Exec. VP and CEO >>AD#
      