
        BARR--Patricia A. The Reconstructionist Rabbinical College expresses its heartfelt sorrow to her husband, Rolf Sternberg, her daughters, Shira and Tava Sternberg, and her mother, Marie Barr, on the death of Patriciawife, mother and daughter. With her selfless activism, community organizing, national leadership and courageous advocacy, both as Vice Chair of our Board of Governors and inspiring leader of Kolot: The Center for Jewish Women's and Gender Studies, and in her many efforts in the wider world she showed us what our days are for. May the memory of her unstinting efforts to make this world a better place be both a blessing and a charge. Aaron Ziegelman, General Chairman Donald Shapiro, Chairman, Board of Governors Rabbi Dan Ehrenkrantz, President, Reconstructionist Rabbinical College
        BARR--Patricia. Americans for Peace Now deeply mourns the passing of our Co-Chair, Patricia Barr. Patricia was a champion of peace, a proud member of the Jewish faith, a crusader for improving the lives of others, a model of determination and strength, and an inspiration to all who knew her. Her life embodied the value, ''Tzedek, Tzedek, Tirdof--Justice, Justice, You Shall Pursue.'' We extend our deepest condolences to Patricia's husband, Rolf Sternberg, her daughters, Shira and Tava Sternberg, her mother, Marie Barr, her sister, Teri Barr, and her brother, Michael Barr, all of whom will treasure her memory. Patricia, we will miss you and work every day to live up to your ideals and vision. Luis Lainer, Co-Chair Debra DeLee, President and CEO APN Board of Directors
        BARR--Patricia Ann. Israel Policy Forum mourns the loss of Patricia Ann Barr, former chairwoman of American's for Peace Now. Barr brought her deep commitment, intellectual honesty and untiring spirit to the cause of Middle East peace, the fight against cancer and numerous other endeavors. We send our deepest condolences to her family. Jack Bendheim, Chair Judith Stern Peck, President Marvin Lender, Executive Committee Chair Debra Wasserman, Executive Director
        BARR--Pat. In loving memory of Pat Barr, first recipient of Kolot's Kol Isha (Woman's Voice) award, who passionately raised her voice to bring equality, loving kindness and peace to the world. On behalf of Kolot's Advisory Board and Staff: Sally Gottesman, Chair Lori Lefkovitz, Director Deborah Meyer, Director. >>AD#
      