
        BURKE--Donald P. of Monmouth Beach, NJ formerly of Tinton Falls, NJ died on Monday, June 2, 2003 at Riverview Medical Center, Red Bank, NJ. Husband of the late Joyce Burke. Father of Michael J. Burke and Michael's fiancee, Gretchen J. Fitzer; Robert C. Burke, II and the late Sheila Anne Burke. Father-in-law of Laurie Deliman Burke. Brother of Robert C. Burke I and his wife Edna. Son of the late John W. and Julia A. Burke. Godfather of Gail Henry. Special friend of Rosemary Edelen. Mr. Burke was an industry-leading magazine editor and a long time resident of Monmouth County, NJ. He lived in Tinton Falls, NJ for 47 years before moving to Monmouth Beach, NJ one year ago. He was editor of Chemical Week, then a McGraw-Hill publication, retiring as acting editor-in-chief in 1989. His career with that New York City based publication began in 1950 when he worked as a senior editor; he became executive editor in 1973. He was a long-term member of Alcoholics Anonymous, associated with many local groups for more than two decades. At the time of his death, he was in his 26th year of sobriety. He served as an industry representative for the Department of Commerce at the Incheba Czechoslovakia, International Chemistry Fair in 1977. He was a contributing editor for the Encyclopedia Brittanica and Harper and Row's Encyclopedia of Science. Industry leaders and writers have cited his incisive writing for Chemical Week for its clarity, precision and accuracy. During World War II, he earned a spot in the Army Specialized Training Program, receiving a certificate from the Citadel in 1944 and studying at the University of Kentucky and the Brooklyn Institute of Technology. Later, he served in the Panama Canal Zone, separating from the service in 1946 with an honorable discharge as a technician 5th grade Company A 150th Infantry Regiment. After the service, he received a B.S. in chemistry and math from St. Peter's College, Jersey City, and did postgraduate study evenings at Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, from 1947-1951. Visitation will be held at the Braun Funeral Home, 106 Broad St, Eatontown, NJ on Thursday, June 5, 2003 from 2-4 & 7-9PM. A funeral mass will be celebrated at St. Dorothea's R.C. Church, Eatontown, NJ on Friday, June 6, 2003 at 10:00AM. Interment will follow in Mt. Olivet Cemetery, Middletown, NJ. >>AD#
      