
        SHERMAN--Dr. Paul Alan, of White Plains, died on June 1, 2003 at age 70. Born in Chicago on October 18, 1932 to Hyman & Miriam Rosenblith Slivnick. He received a PhD from Illinois Institute of Technology in 1961 where he majored in psychology. Dr. Sherman was an industrial psychologist. From 1979 to the present, he was the president of Paul Sherman and Associates, a national consulting firm, specializing in the treatment of executives with alcoholism and drug addictions. Since 1970, this organization has provided services to more than 350 small to multinational organizations in the public, private and non-profit sectors, in the service, financial, insurance and manufacturing fields. From 1965-1979 he served as director of special programs for the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation, where he developed, implemented and directed the ITT Alcoholism, Behavioral/Medical and Employee Assistance Programs. Throughout his professional tenure he received many accolades. His recognitions include, President of the Employee Assistance Professionals Association (formerly ALMACA) from 1976-1978, Advisor to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAA) from 1974-1978 and he served as an expert witness for the US Senate Sub-Committee on Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse. Dr. Sherman has achieved media recognition as well with numerous television appearances including CBS Evening News with Dan Rather, Today Show, Not for Women Only and the Freeman Reports. He was also featured in The New York Times, Wall Street Journal and other leading professional magazines and newsletters. Dr. Sherman is survived by his wife Joan Louise (Root). In addition he is survived by sons, David Sherman (wife Elizabeth) of Manhattan, Dr. Scott Sherman (wife Leta) of Mar Vista, CA, daughters, Julie DeFreitas (husband Frank) of White Plains, and Laurie Walshin of New Canaan. Also surviving are grandchildren Benjamin, Sarah, Jessica, Trevor, Colin, Emily and Rebecca, and sister Charlene Gourguechon of Paris. He is predeceased by a brother Morton Slivnick. Funeral service will be held on Tuesday 11am at the Comunity Synagogue of Rye followed by interment at Sharon Gardens Cemetery. For information, contact Zion Memorial Chapel in Mamaroneck at 914-381-1809, zionmemorialchapel.com. The family requests donations in Dr. Sherman's memory be sent to the National Council on Alcoholism & Drug Dependence (N.C.A.D.D., Inc.) 20 Exchange Place, Suite 2909, New York, NY 10005. >>AD#
      