
        COHEN--Bernice Kreindler (Bunny). Beloved and cherished wife of Dr. Ira Bernard Cohen, devoted mother of Amy Cohen Burack, and Bonnie Cohen Rooney and her loving husband William J. Rooney, loving grandmother of Jacob Burack, Kevin and Meghan Rooney, and devoted sister-in-law of Florence Kalvin. Bunny died after suffering from a long illness on May 30, 2003, at The Jacob Perlow Hospice at Beth Israel Medical Center. It is with profound sorrow that her passing will be mourned by all of her many friends and family, who through the years have felt her beneficent presence. Services will be at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street on Monday, June 2 at 11:30 a.m. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Dr. Ira Bernard Cohen Internal Medicine Fund at Beth Israel Medical Center for the betterment of patient care, 16th Street and 1st Avenue, NY, NY 10003.
        COHEN--Bernice. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend, Bernice ''Bunny'' Cohen, beloved wife of our distinguished colleague, Ira B. Cohen, M.D., longtime Beth Israel physician, former Associate Director of the Department of Medicine and former President of the Medical Board. To Ira, his daughters Amy and Bonnie, the entire Cohen family and all of Bunny's many friends and loved ones, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Board of Trustees Continuum Gail F. Donovan Interim President/CEO Continuum Thomas Killip, M.D. Interim President/CEO Beth Israel Donald Kastenbaum, M.D. President, Medical Board Stephen G. Baum, M.D. Chairman, Dept. of Medicine Robert L. Salant, M.D. President, Doctors Alumni Association
        COHEN--Bernice. The Physicians, Residents and Staff of the Department of Medicine of Beth Israel Medical Center acknowledge with deep sadness the passing of Bernice ''Bunny'' Cohen, dear and beloved wife of our longtime friend and colleague, Ira B. Cohen, M.D. She will be greatly missed by all whose lives were touched by her warm heart and extraordinary kindess. To Ira, his daughters Amy and Bonnie, and all of their family, friends and loved ones, we extend deepest sympathies. Stephen G. Baum, M.D. Chairman, Dept. of Medicine David D'Souza, M.D. Chief, Division of Occupational Health
        COHEN--Bernice Kreindler. Our dear friend and the wife of Dr. Ira Bernard Cohen, who has devoted so many years to our beloved Beth Israel Hospital, the mother of Amy Cohen Burack and Bonnie Cohen Rooney and their dear children. We mourn her passing and trust her family will live with the remembrances of their wonderful lives. Betty and Morton Yarmon
        COHEN--Bunny. Our beautiful, elegant, courageous friend is finally at peace. She lived her entire life with dignity, class and style. We will miss her so much. Our love and hearts are with Ira and the family. Barbara and Bentley >>AD#
      