
        GOLDFARB--Gene Stanley. Died peacefully on Tuesday, June 10, 2003 at his home in Palm Beach. The son of Frances and Samuel J. Goldfarb, he was born in Chicago, IL. on July 31, 1926 and raised in New York. He graduated from Columbia Grammar School, and attended Syracuse University and New York University. A successful businessman, he was a manufacturer and wholesaler of childrens', junior and womens' clothing. As Chairman of the Board of House of Perfection, Inc., he developed and expanded the company founded by his father in 1934. He owned and operated manufacturing facilities in the states of Virginia, West Virigina, Tennessee and South Carolina, and also provided work for 21 independent contractors on an annual basis. His youngest daughter, Ellen Goldfarb, serves as President and Chief Operating Office in this third generation, familyowned business. Gerie Goldfarb was known for his generosity to family and friends, and made annual contributions to the U.J.A.-Federation, Ben Gurion University, State of Israel, Albert Einstein College, American Jewish Congress, United Way of Palm Beach and Greenwich, CT., United Negro College Fund, Anti-Defamation League, Hillel Foundation, Technion Israel Institute, AIPAC, Good Samaritan and Saint Mary's Hospitals, Founder of the Kravis Center and many others too numerous to mention. He chaired the U.J.A.-Federation Appeal for the childrens' clothing industry in N.Y.C. for several years and contributed to the Lincoln Center and Carnegie Hall. He was a member of Congregation Emanu-El of Westchester, N.Y., of Old Oaks Country Club in Purchase, N.Y., and the Palm Beach Country Club. He spent his summers in Greenwich, CT. He was an accomplished sportsman and ardent golfer, and a generous and devoted friend and family man. He is survived by his wife, Judith Ellen Goldfarb, his daughters, Lauren Steiner, and Ellen Goldfarb, three grandsons, Nicholas and James Steiner, and Ryan Goldfarb. Also surviving are two brothers, Murray (wife Bobby), and Alan (wife Sarah) Goldfarb, two nieces, Susan and Amy, and three nephews, David, John and William Goldfarb.
        GOLDFARB--Gene Stanley, died peacefully at his home in Palm Beach, FL, on June 10, 2003, following an eight-year courageous battle with myelodysplasia. Gene will forever be remembered for his generous and caring nature, and innate kindness to all. His truly original sense of humor, good fellowship and sportsmanship, dedication to charity as a family tradition, and philosophies on living, sustained him throughout his life. Gene was a devoted family man and loyal friend, and will be sorely missed. He is survived by his loving wife, Judith; two daughters, Lauren Steiner (husband Leonard) and Ellen Goldfarb; three grandsons, Nicholas and James Steiner, and Ryan Goldfarb; two brothers, Murray (wife Bobby) and Alan (wife, Sarah); brother-in-law, Richard L. Gray; five nephews, David, John, William, Michael, and Kenneth; and two nieces, Susan and Amy. A Memorial Service was held privately in Palm Beach on June 14, 2003. A Celebration of His Life will be held at 5:00 P.M. on Wednesday, June 25, 2003, at Old Oaks Country Club, Purchase, New York. Contributions may be made in Gene's memory to Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Research for Myelodysplasia, P.O. Box 27106, New York, New York 10089.
        GOLDFARB--Gene Stanley. A very special friend, a common sense, wise business advisor, and an inspirational leader in UJA and many other charities. A service celebrating his life will be at 5 PM, June 25, Old Oaks CC, Purchase. We will always cherish his memory. Justin and Charles Israel Bennett Berman >>AD#
      