
        OBADIAH - SMITH -- Laura Sharona. On May 22, 2003. Loving wife to David and devoted mother of Jared and James Smith. Loving daughter to Valentine and Edward Obadiah, loving sister to Michel, loving daughter-inlaw to Susan and Richard Smith. Laura graduated from the State University of New York at Binghamton and went on to earn a law degree from New York Law School. She was a member of Moot Court and admitted to the New York, New Jersey, and Washington, DC Bars. Laura practiced law for several years in the New York area until devoting herself to raising her two children. Beautiful, inside and out, Laura always made heads turn with her striking model looks, infectious laughs and boundless wisdom. A righteous and brave soul, Laura was loved by many and touched the lives of anyone she came in contact with. Laura was mature beyond her young years and provided sound guidance to her husband, family, friends, and all those that asked. Her very untimely passing has left a huge crater in the hearts and minds of those who knew her, but her drive, goodness, and all that she stood for will continue on through the family and children she leaves behind. We will all miss Laura terribly, but know that she will watch over and protect us always.
        OSHERSON -- Adele Schul man, of Manhattan, formerly of Bronxville, NY, died peacefully on May 31, 2003, at age 82, at the Keene Center, Keene, NH. Beloved wife of Louis. Devoted mother and mother-in-law of Sam and Julie, Dan and Yolande. Loving grandmother of Toby, Emily, Marc, Annette and Benjamin. Adele was a writer of fiction and for many years a psychotherapist at the Fifth Avenue Center for Psychotherapy, NYC. Her boundless curiosity, her love of the written word and her passion for needlepoint and other crafts will be missed by all who knew her. Her friendship was a gift to be cherished as she made each person she knew feel uniquely cared for. Graveside service Monday, June 2, 2 PM, at Mt. Hope Cemetery, Hastings-on-Hudson, NY. For information, call ''The Riverside,'' 1-800-448-1939. >>AD#
      