
        LECKEY -- Thomas Philip, suddenly on June 23, 2003, in Arlington, VA. He was born in Manhattan on May 15, 1934 to Tom and Molly Leckey of the Bronx. A graduate of Fordham Preparatory School, Columbia College and the University of Notre Dame, he maintained a life-long love of history. From 1958 to 1989 he was a financial manager for the Dept. of the Navy, mostly with the Office of Naval Research. He was a charter member of the Senior Executive Service. A committed and knowledgeable community activist, he served on the Arlington Planning Commission in the 1970's, as well as on the Fiscal Affairs Committee. Upon retirement, Tom began a distinguished second career as a volunteer. In 1989, he and a small group of friends founded the Arlington Partnership for Affordable Housing (APAH); Tom was the organization's first CEO. When APAH was well established, he turned his time and attention to the Arlington Street People's Assistance Network (ASPAN) where he served as treasurer until 2001. Tom's home and family were cherished by him, and he worked diligently to help others know that kind of comfort. In 1997, Arlington County recognized him as the first community hero, for his work on behalf of the vulnerable members of society. He leaves behind his beloved wife of 46 years, Dolores (Conklin) and his dear children Mary Kate Marcellus, her husband Ronald and their sons Cameron and Conor; Dr. Celia Leckey and her son Samuel X. Brase; Thomas J. Leckey and his wife Dr. Margaret Kabalin Leckey and their daughters Monica and Grace, Dr. Colum Leckey, his wife Donna Bible and their children Roman and Maria. Tom also leaves behind his brother John J. Leckey and his wife Myra and their children Shannon, Courtney and Sean; and his sister Mary Jane Cannon and her sons Donald, Terry and Alex. Countless friends, colleagues and Arlington citizens also mourn his passing. The wake will be held at Our Lady Queen of Peace Catholic Church in Arlington on Thursday, June 26, from 7-9PM. The Mass of the Resurrection will be celebrated there at 11AM on Friday, June 27. Donations in his memory may be made to APAH or ASPAN, both located in Arlington, VA, or to the scholarship fund at Fordham Prep. Tom's infectious laugh, keen intellect, generous heart and Irish singing will be greatly missed. He often quoted St. John of the Cross: ''In the evening of life, only love matters.'' >>AD#
      