
        KADUSON--Jack. 89, of Farmington, ME, formerly of Roslyn Heights, Long Island, New York, died Thursday in Farmington. He was born April 29, 1914, in New York City, the son of Abraham and Ethel (Kushner) Kaduson. He received his education in New York schools. On May 7, 1942, he married Elaine Rodman in New York City. He was a U.S. Army veteran, having served in the Asiatic Pacific Theatre during WWII. He was a member of the motion picture team and served as a writer and unit manager. His division was responsible for the filming of Ryukyus Campaign (Okinawa Operation) and showed the release of allied POW's and Japanese war criminals. They also filmed during the encephalitis B disease, endemic to Okinawa, Japan, and shared the coverage with the Surgeon General, Washington, DC. During his service, Mr. Kaduson also interviewed Tokyo Rose. His business career included working in the world of advertising. He was employed by Gimbel Brothers. He then worked in retail sales and was employed by Schenley Distilleries and the Seagram Co. He returned from retirement to work at Cue and New York Magazine. Mr. Kaduson enjoyed playing golf, listening to music, reading, attending the theater with his wife, family vacations and making people laugh. His greatest gift was his sense of humor. Following retirement, he studied art and philosophy. He will always be loved and remembered by his family, friends and caregivers for his devotion to being a good provider, his Saturday outings with his daughters, his work ethic, honesty and never-fading sense of humor. He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Elaine, of Farmington, formerly of Long Island, NY; two daughters: Karen Calloway and her husband, John, of Avon, Maine, and Lynne Kaduson of New York; a sister-in-law, Shirley Davis of California; a cousin-in-law, Sandy Grappel of Florida; one niece, several nephews and many dear and loving friends from New York, Michigan, Florida and Maine. He was precedeased by a brother, Bill Kaduson, and brother-in-law, Ira Rodman. A memorial service will be held Tuesday morning, June 10, 2003, at 11 a.m. from the Wiles Funeral Home, 137 Farmington Falls Road, Farmington, with Rabbi Susan Bulba Carvutto of Temple Beth El of Augusta. Following services, all are welcome to a fellowship reception in Mr. Kaduson's honor at the funeral home. In lieu of flowers, gifts may be given in his memory to the Franklin County Animal Shelter, RR 1, Box 1413, Farmington, ME 04938. Committal services will be held in the future at Mt. Ararat Cemetery, New York. >>AD#
      