
        HEYMAN--George Harrison, Jr. Died peacefully at home on June 1, 2003 at age 86. Dearly beloved husband of Edythe. Devoted father of William and John and adoring grandfather of Brett and Mallory. Respected by his family, friends and colleagues for his intelligence, knowledge, wisdom and integrity. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Tuesday, June 3rd, 69pm. Services Wednesday June 4th, 11:30am at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave at 65 St.
        HEYMAN--George H. Jr. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, George H. Heyman, Jr. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres Herbert C. Bernard, Sec'y
        HEYMAN--George. The entire New York University community deeply mourns the death of George H. Heyman, Jr.--esteemed alumnus; NYU Life Trustee and Trustee of the School of Medicine; member of the Advisory Board of the Edgar M. Bronfman Center for Jewish Student Life; member Emeritus of the Board of Overseers of the Leonard N. Stern School of Business. Mr. Heyman's extraordinary leadership, as Chair of the Development Committee of NYU's Board of Trustees, 1978-1999, was in large measure responsible for the rise of the university from a regional school to a residential research and teaching institution of international distinction. Highly esteemed by men and women in the business and philanthropic communities, he chaired, with huge success, NYU's three campaigns which raised more than $2.2 billion, enabling NYU to be the first American university to undertake a drive to raise $1 billion, completing the goal five years early. George's leadership in development was matched by magnificent personal generosity, for which he was named a charter member of the Sir Harold Acton Society. For extraordinary service to NYU, he was awarded the Albert Gallatin Medal; the Distinguished Service Award from the Leonard N. Stern School of Business; and the Alumni Association Meritorious Service Award. Heyman Hall at NYU, housing the Skirball Department of Hebrew and Judaic Studies, was named in his honor. Two months ago, in a private ceremony conducted by Chairman Emeritus Laurence A. Tisch, Chairman Martin Lipton, and President John Sexton, George was inducted as an Honorary Fellow of New York University's Phi Beta Kappa Society. A man of wisdom, integrity, energy and vision, he leaves an indelible mark on our institution and a community that will always cherish the memory of this great and good man. We express our profound sorrow and deepest sympathies to his dear wife, Edythe, his sons, William and John, and to the entire Heyman family. Chairman Emeritus Laurence A. Tisch Chairman Martin Lipton President John Sexton
        HEYMAN--George H., Jr. The trustees, faculty, and staff of NYU Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our treasured friend and trustee, George H. Heyman, Jr. Mr. Heyman was a long-time member of the New York University family and a generous benefactor of the NYU Medical Center. He had a passionate commitment to scientific research and improving healthcare for his fellow citizens. In particular, Mr. Heyman played a vital role in the establishment of the Skirball Institute of Biomolecular Medicine at NYU School of Medicine. Mr. Heyman's philanthropic gifts and advocacy on behalf of NYU Medical Center have strengthened our institution in immeasurable ways and will always be remembered. Our heartfelt sympathies go to his wife, Edythe, and the entire Heyman family. Kenneth G. Langone, Chairman, NYU School of Medicine and NYU Hospitals Center Boards of Trustees Robert M. Glickman, MD, Dean, NYU School of Medicine CEO, NYU Hospitals Center Theresa A. Bischoff President, NYU Hospitals Center
        HEYMAN--George H. Jr. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of George H. Heyman Jr., a beloved leader and cherished friend, who left a legacy of hope for all those touched by his generosity. From 1969 to 1971, Mr. Heyman served as president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York, the predecessor of UJA-Federation. His innovative leadership and compassionate concern earned him enormous admiration and respect. Mr. Heyman's beloved wife, Edythe, has shared her husband's dedication to the Jewish community, serving on the Women's Campaign Cabinet and as a member of the W.O. Thrift Shop, Inc. Board of Directors. We extend our deepest sympathies to Edythe; to her sons, William and John; to her grandchildren, and to the entire Heyman family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        HEYMAN--George, Jr. The Skirball Foundation deeply mourns the death of George H. Heyman, Jr. As a trustee of the Foundation he brought to our deliberations his wisdom, integrity, civility, brilliance, insight and remarkable perspective. He exemplified the meaning of courage and continued to live fully without self pity as he bravely battled cancer--against all odds--for the past three years. His essence as a human being was grounded in both reality and hope. May his memory always be a blessing to all who were privileged to know him. We offer our deep condolences to his widow Edythe, his sons John and Bill, and his entire extended family. Martin Blackman, President The Skirball Foundation
        HEYMAN--George H., Jr. The board of directors and staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of George H. Heyman, Jr., father of board member, William H. Heyman. We offer our sincere condolences to the family and honor the memory of a loving and generous supporter of the Y. Michael Goldstein, President Sol Adler, Executive Director
        HEYMAN--George H. Jr. The Board of Directors of the W.O. Thrift Shop, Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of George H. Heyman Jr., the beloved husband of our esteemed Executive Committee member, Edythe. Our hearts go out to the entire Heyman family. Jill Levine Rosen, Board Chair
        HEYMAN--George. Friend of my heart and colleague for 23 years. Brilliant and an extraordinary teacher, he was a man of great integrity. And most important, he was always a warm, faithful and loving friend. My deepest sympathies to his wife, Edythe, and sons, William and John. Naomi >>AD#
      