
        GOULD--Byrdie, loving wife, devoted mother and motherin-law, a wonderful grandmother and great-grandmother. A great lady who created love and happiness during the 92 plus years of her life. The memories that her family and friends have will live in their hearts forever. She will be missed and never forgotten by her husband Stuart, her sons Fred and Jay, her daughters-in-law Helaine and Luetta, her grandchildren, their spouses and her eight great - grandchildren. Funeral services will be at Temple Judea in Manhasset on Searingtown Road, just north of the Long Island Expressway, at 9:30 AM on Sunday, June 22.
        GOULD--Byrdie. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York deeply mourn the passing of Byrdie Gould, beloved wife of Stuart S. Gould, mother of Fredric and Jay, and a generous and cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Byrdie and Stuart's philanthropic commitment and able leadership over the past 50 years helped support numerous Jewish and humanitarian causes in New York and throughout the world, and inspired an extraordinary tradition of tzedakah in their children and grandchildren. We extend our deepest sympathies to their children, Fredric and his wife, Helaine; Jay and his wife, Luetta; to the Gould's four grandchildren and their spouses, to their 8 great-grandchildren, & to the entire Gould family. May her memory be a blessing. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        GOULD--Byrdie. All of us at Gould Investors L.P. are terribly saddened by the death of Byrdie Gould, beloved wife of Stuart Gould, a founder and moving force of our company. We will miss her wonderful sense of humor, her kindness and concern for all of us and our families, her warmth and her zest for life. We extend our heartfelt condolences to our friends and associates Stuart Gould, Fred Gould, Jay Gould, Matt Gould, Jeff Gould and Wendy Shenfeld and their families.
        GOULD--Byrdie. The Board of Trustees, of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation is deeply saddened by the loss of Byrdie Gould, beloved wife of Stuart and mother of our dear friends and supporters, Fred and Helaine Gould, and Jay and Luetta Gould. We wish to extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire Gould family. Barbara N. Kurshan, Chair, Board of Trustees >>AD#
      