
        VANDER POEL--Halsted Billings. 91, died at home in Washington, D.C., on Friday, June 27, 2003. Following a distinquished stint in the navy during World War II he then went on to serve in the Executive Office of the President of the United States (1951-1954). Mr. Vander Poel served under Presidents Truman and Eisenhower, compiling the first War Book for the Presidency. In 1957, he came to Rome with his family, becoming affiliated with Professor Giuseppe Cellini in a project of restoring several important frescoes in Roman churches. He was a member for twenty-two years of the Rome Committee for the administration of The John Keats Memorial House at the Spanish Steps. In 1964 he joined the group occupied in the establishment of the St. Stephen's School, an American secondary school accredited to universities and colleges in the United States, for which he prepared the initial school catalogue. During this period he established several of the major prizes for academic and athletic excellence. In 1960 Mr. Vander Poel assumed responsibility for the continuation of the life-work of the Russian archaeologist Prof. Tatiana Warscher in the Campanian field of archaeology and later continued this work following the death of the celebrated Italian epigraphist Prof. Matteo Della Corte. A friend of Prof. Michael I. Rostowtzeff of Yale University, Mr. Vander Poel rescued the MSS of the volumes prepared by Prof. Della Corte for publication in East Berlin, and especially concerning later works on the ancient walled-city of Pompeii. Since 1959 he was occupied in the RICA (Researches in Campanian Archaeology) series of publications in Pompeian Topography, having produced several volumes on the subject as well as delineated maps of Pompeii and its environs. His most recent contribution comprises the production and analysis of the Giornale degli Scavi (from 1861-1867), which had never been published. He was honoured by election to the German Archaeological Institute of Rome (KM) in 1981. A lifelong collector of rare books and scholarly archeological materials, Mr. Vander Poel donated his architectural library (The Vander Poel Campanian Collection) to The Getty Research Institute in 2001. Until his death, he was the longest tenured member of the Grolier Club. Halsted B. Vander Poel was born in 1911 on his grandfather's, the C.K.G. Billings' estate on Manhattan Island, N.Y., the present site of the Cloisters. He attended St. George's School and went on to get a degree from Yale University. He was very happily married for 50 years to his late wife, Dorothy Marlatt Vander Poel, and is survived by his three daughters, Jane Stuart Lenzetti of Washington, D.C., Virginia Stuart Muse of Aurora, Colorado, Deborah Billings Jorgensen of King William, VA, a son, Halsted B. Vander Poel II of Lakewood, Colorado, and a sister, Wendy Russell of Oyster Bay, NY, and six grandchildren. The funeral will be held at Christ Church, 3116 O Street N.W., Washington, D.C., on July 2nd at 11:00 am. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Washington Home & Hospice, 3720 Upton Street N.W., Washington D.C. 20016. >>AD#
      