
        VAIL--Priscilla L., an educator active in the fields of learning disabilities, dyslexia and the education of the gifted, died July 6, 2003 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital at the age of 71. Death was due to cancer. Priscilla Luke Vail was born in New York City to Mr. and Mrs. David L. Luke. She attended the Spence and Brearley Schools and graduated from the Mary C. Wheeler School in Providence, RI in the Class of 1949. Before her marriage, she attended Vassar College from 1949-1951. She earned her BA and MAT from Manhattanville College, Purchase, NY in 1973 and 1974, at which time she joined the faculty of the Rippowam-Cisqua School where she had been a parent and long-time trustee. While working full time at Rippowam-Cisqua, she wrote and published 9 books, and numerous articles for such professional journals as NAIS and the Orton Dyslexia Society. A frequent presenter at educational conferences both here and abroad, she spoke at individual schools and school systems, and at such institutions as the Principals' Center at Harvard, Cambridge University in England, the British Dyslexia Society and York University, York, England. She continued an active professional life, teaching, writing and consulting until the time of her death. She received the Outstanding Educator of the Year award from the NY branch of the Orton Dyslexia Society in 1987 and her book, ''Smart Kids with School Problems: Things to Know and Ways to Help,'' received the Margot Marek Book Award in 1990. She was a founding trustee of the Fisher Landau Foundation for Gifted Learning Disabled Students. In 1998 she received the Samuel T. Orton Award, the highest award given by the International Dyslexia Association. A 50 year resident of Bedford, NY and a 40 year summer resident of Stonington, CT, she was active in community affairs and was a lay reader and chalice bearer at St. Matthew's Church. Among other board assignments, she served on the Education Committee of the Mystic Seaport Museum, and was the non-resident education director of the Hallowell Clinic for Cognitive and Emotional Health in Concord, MA. She was married for 50 years to Donald Vail, who predeceased her. She is survived by four children, Melissa Vail Selby, Polly Vail Walsh, Lucia Vail & Donald Angus Vail and six grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at St. Matthew's Church, Bedford, NY on Thursday at 4:30PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the International Dyslexia Assoc, 8600 LaSalle Road, Chester Bldg, Suite 382, Towson, MD. 21286.
        VAIL--Priscilla L. The AllenStevenson School mourns the loss of Priscilla L. Vail, a beloved member of our faculty since 1997. In her role of Catalyst, she helped us to focus on how we teach, think about, understand and develop the use of language in boys. Always enthusiastic and kind, she was also chipper and wise. We admired her courage and optimism and we will miss her insights and friendship greatly. We offer our heartfelt condolences to all those she loved. Ronald S. Rolfe, President Board of Trustees David R. Trower, Headmaster >>AD#
      