
        MANDEL -- Lenard Harold. (1917-2003). It is with profound sorrow that the family of Lenard H. Mandel announces his passing on July 11, 2003. Mr. Mandel, a resident of New York City, served as Partner Emeritus at the Manhattan law firm of White & Case until the time of his death. Mr. Mandel was born on July 23, 1917 in Plainfield, New Jersey to Herman and Rose Mandel. He was married to Ruth Garfield from 1948 until the time of her death in 1998. After earning his B.A. from New York University in 1937, Mr. Mandel went on to receive his J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1940. Mr. Mandel served in the United States Military from 1942-1945. He rose to the rank of Major and earned three Battle Stars as well as a Gold and Crimson Bar awarded him by the Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces to Planning Staff of Operation Overlord -the Invasion of Normandy. Before joining his present firm, White & Case, Mr. Mandel served as Senior Partner of New York City law firm, Paskus, Gordon & Mandel. He joined White & Case in 1987 as a Partner. He represented several local and international large real estate clients including The Durst Organization. He was a member of the Board of the New York Youth Symphony Orchestra and Secretary to the Board of The Durst Organization. Mr. Mandel was a member of the State Bars of New York, New Jersey and Colorado, as well as the District of Columbia Bar. Friends and family describe Mr. Mandel as a ''true original'' who brought unique insight to all of his endeavors. Family was his primary love, followed closely by the legal profession. He was passionate about his practice, working until the day of his death. Mr. Mandel also enjoyed fine art and the symphony. Mr. Mandel is precedeased by his wife Ruth and sister, Myra. His brother, Robert (Beverly) Mandel, son Richard Garfield Mandel, and daughter Carol Diane Milstein survive him. Mr. Mandel is also survived by grandchildren Aaron, Amanda, Ethan, Daniel, and Maria. Services to be held Sunday, July 13, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New York City.
        MANDEL--Lenard. The Partners and Associates of Handler & Goodman mourn the loss of a wise and insightful lawyer, friend and client. We offer our sincere condolences to his family. Arthur M. Handler Robert S. Goodman Handler & Goodman L.L.P. >>AD#
      