
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the passing of its Chairman Emeritus, great leader, champion, benefactor, and guardian, Andrew Heiskell. With great wisdom, and with selfless dedication and devotion for more than two decades, he was the guiding spirit in the Library's resurgence from financial difficulties in the 1970's and helped move the Library into a new century, embodying his vision as a university of the people without equal. Under Mr. Heiskell's leadership, the Library raised over $300 million in the 1980's, and he was directly and instrumentally responsible for securing financial support from diverse public and private sources, in addition to his own generous philanthropy. His great achievements included the restoration of the landmark Library building at Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street to its original grandeur, the upgrading of many of the Branch Libraries in the Bronx, Manhattan, and Staten Island; improved access to the Library's great research collections; and the revival of the preservation program. He helped expand the Library's Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture and strengthen the endowment for The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts. His interest in the Library's immediate surroundings led him to form the Bryant Park Restoration Corporation, responsible for a comprehensive renovation of the Park, and he helped build 44 miles of new storage for the research collections in underground book stacks beneath the Park. The Andrew Heiskell Braille and Talking Book Library, a facility dedicated to serving the blind, visually impaired, and others unable to read standard print material, is named in his honor to recognize his great energy and commitment in making this facility a reality. New York is a better place because of Andrew Heiskell, for his creation of beautiful public spaces, his drive to provide democratic access to knowledge, and his unwavering support of cultural institutions and their role in bettering society. We owe him our deepest, most profound thanks, and we are grateful to have been touched by a man of such extraordinary vision and goodness. We extend our deepest sympathies to Marian Heiskell and to all members of Andrew's family. Mrs. Vincent Astor, Honorary Chairman Samuel C. Butler, Chairman Elizabeth Rohatyn, Marshall Rose, Chairmen Emeriti Paul LeClerc, President
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The Board, Staff and Artists of Lincoln Center Theater grieve the death of the beloved Vice Chairman of the theater since its re-establishment in 1985, our treasured Andrew Heiskell. The theater was greatly blessed by Andrew's extraordinary spirit, his profound understanding of the way cultural institutions work in New York City. Andrew reveled in the artistic life of the theater. He was endlessly curious about the plays, their provenance and was eager to understand the process by which a script was converted to a production. He was given to saying that having read a play, he couldn't quite imagine it on stage, and was most often delighted by the realization of a production. Andrew's commitment, generosity, kindness and challenging intellect will be sorely missed along with his wise and gently commanding presence. We extend deeply felt condolences to Marian and all the family. John Beinecke, Chairman Linda L. Janklow, Chairman Emeritus John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. As much as any individual we have known, Andrew Heiskell was a shining beacon for those of our generation who started out in New York City in the 1960s and 1970s. His devotion to our city and urban America, commitment to our institutions of truth and learning and life long crusade for an equal and open society taught so many of us the full meaning of citizenship. His mischevious and raucous wit, bear hug embrace of our arts and letters, swashbuckling good looks and daring, and, of course, his beloved Marian, made our love for Andrew as great as our admiration. We, each in our own way, will miss so much this tough and gentle giant of our city. Diane M. Coffey Gordon J. Davis Hugh Hardy Jay Kriegel Richard D. Parsons
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The Board, Members and Staff of the Council on the Environment of NYC mourn the passing of Mr. Andrew Heiskell, an outstanding contributor to the quality of life in NYC, a great public servant involved and active in the important issues of today. His many years of generous support to our organization and to so many other worthy NYC institutions and causes will long be remembered. To the family, to our esteemed Member Jacqueline Dryfoos, and to Marian Heiskell, beloved founder, longtime Chairman and still guiding light of the Council, we send our deepest sympathy and love. Forrest Church, Chairman Lys McLaughlin, Exec. Dir. The Council on the Environment of NYC
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The board of The Graduate Center Foundation and the entire CUNY Graduate Center community mourn the passing of Andrew Heiskell. A member of the Foundation Board and long time friend and supporter, we gratefully acknowledge his devotion and commitment to The Graduate Center's mission and programs. His generosity and unstinting wise council made a difference, and his leadership was inspirational. Our heartfelt condolences to Marian and to all the family. The Board of Trustees Graduate Center Foundation Frances Degen Horowitz President, The Graduate Center
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The Board and staff of The New 42nd Street send heartfelt sympathy to Marian Heiskell upon the death of her beloved Andrew. He stood at her elbow, gently encouraging her to undertake the revitalization of 42nd Street's historic theaters with a keen understanding of the challenges she faced coupled with his grace, brilliance, dignity, humanity and lovely wit. We will miss him. Our love to Marian. The Board of The New 42nd Street Cora Cahan, President
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The New Yorker we all dream of being was actually born elsewhere but here he came into his own. In his work for the Library and other good causes he acted with vision, common sense and impatience to get things done. New Yorkers sunning themselves this afternoon or having a drink at dusk in Bryant Park may not know who to thank for this civilized oasis but we do. The Municipal Art Society
        HEISKELL--Andrew. The Advisory Board and staff of the Frank Stanton/Andrew Heiskell Telecommunications Policy Center, CUNY Graduate Center mourn the loss of the man who inspired the founding of the Center and contributed to the importance of technology and learning. Helen Birenbaum, Executive Director Ted Gerbracht, Chair >>AD#
      