
        OBERLANDER -- Samuel Guy, M.D., 63, died July 1, 2003 at home in Ardsley, NY of cancer. Born in Brooklyn, NY on June 22, 1940 to Harry and the late Belle Oberlander. A devoted father and husband, he is survived by his wife Monica, nee Hallacy; and their children, Matthew, Andrew, Laura Belle and Jennifer. Also survived by his children from his first marriage: Lynn (Gary Drevitch), Jill (Larry Penn) and Bert (Kristen) Oberlander; and grandchildren, Benjamin, Alexander, Jack and Natalie, all of Manhattan. Beloved brother of Martin ''Mickey,'' of Boca Raton, FL. A graduate of Hobart College, '61 and Harvard Medical School, '65, he was a dedicated physician. He was a Clinical Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, a partner in Associates for Women's Care, and practiced OB/GYN in the Bronx and Westchester for the past 30 years. Services will be held on Thursday, July 3 at 11AM at Ballard-Durand Funeral Home, 2 Maple Ave, White Plains, NY. Burial to follow at Ferncliff Cemetery. Donations may be made to the Samuel G. Oberlander, M.D. Foundation to advance ob/gyn and women's health, C/O Laurence Penn, Ellington Management Group, 53 Forest Ave, Old Greenwich, CT. 06870.
        OBERLANDER--Samuel G., M.D. It is with deep sadness that we learn of the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Professor Samuel G. Oberlander, M.D. His service and contributions to the institution and the Department of Obstretics and Gynecology and Women's Health as an educator and clinician had a great impact on generations of doctors and medical students. Dr. Oberlander will be missed by all who had the privilege of knowing him. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife and family. Irwin R. Merkatz, M.D. Professor & University Chair Albert Einstein College of Medicine Montefiore Medical Center
        OBERLANDER--Samuel G., M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the untimely passing of our Clinical Professor of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Women's Health. For more than three decades, he was a beloved physician in our community and a dedicated member of our faculty. To his wife, Monica, and the entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean >>AD#
      