
        NEWMAN--J. Wilson, former Chief Executive Officer of the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation for sixteen years and Chairman of the Finance Committee for twelve years, died in Charlottesville, Virginia on Tuesday, July 8. Mr. Newman resided in Short Hills, New Jersey, Delray Beach, Florida, and Charlottesville, Virginia. He was born, November 3, 1909, in Clemson, South Carolina, attended Clemson University, graduated in 1931, and received his law degree from New York University Law School in 1937. Following a brief experience in banking, Mr. Newman joined the R.G. Dun Company in 1931 as a credit reporter shortly before that company's merger with the Bradstreet Company. After several years of reporting and a wide range of assignments, he became a Vice President in 1946, President in 1952, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1960. After retiring in 1968, he remained Chairman of the Finance Committee until 1980. Under his leadership, his company substantially expanded its revenues through growth and diversification of services, as well as modernizing systems and facilities. Mr. Newman participated in numerous governmental activities including being a member of the United States Price Commission ('71-72) and the Commission on Bankruptcy Laws ('70-73). He was a member of the Millburn, New Jersey Board of Education, associated in various capacities with the American Bar Association, the Committee for Economic Development, the Conference Board, the New York Chamber of Commerce Executive Committee, as well as the English Speaking Union in Charlottesville, Virginia. Numerous Board memberships included: The Atlantic Companies, Chemical Bank, Consolidated Edison, International Paper, AT&T, General Foods Corporation, Lockheed Corporation, and the New York Stock Exchange. Public service activities included the Clemson University Foundation, New York University and its Law School Foundation, the Miller Center of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia (Chairman), Sweet Briar College (Chairman), The Brookings Institute, Harvard University, the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, and the President's Council for the Arts, University of Virginia. Mr. Newman has been specifically honored by Clemson University, the New York University Law School, the South Carolina Business Hall of Fame, Sweet Briar College, and the Miller Center of Public Affairs. He also wrote and published an autobiography entitled ''For What Do We Labor?'' in 1996. He was past president of the University Club of New York and a trustee of the Baltusrol Golf Club and the Gulf Stream Bath and Tennis Club. Mr. Newman was preceded in death by his wife of 68 years, Clara Collier Newman in June 2002. He is survived by four children, Mrs. Robert E. Blanchard of Green Village, New Jersey, Mrs. Bradley R. Thayer of Whitefield, New Hampshire, James Wilson Newman, Jr. of Charlottesville, Virginia, and Charles Carter Newman of Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, nine grandchildren and twelve great grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Miller Center of Public Affairs, University of Virginia, P.O. Box 40046, Charlottesville, Virginia 22902-4406. >>AD#
      