
        McCRARY--John ''Tex''. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System is greatly saddened by the passing of John ''Tex'' McCrary, a renowned publicist, radio and television personality, and political activist. He was one of the founders of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset in 1953, serving for decades as a trustee of the hospital and later as a lifetime trustee of the North Shore-LIJ Health System. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Jinx Falkenburg, a former actress who was Mr. McCrary's co-host on the popular radio show ''Hi Jinx,'' and also a longtime trustee of North Shore University Hospital and the health system. We also offer our sympathies to their sons Michael, Kevin and John. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman Michael J. Dowling, President & CEO North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        McCRARY -- John Reagan ''Tex''. The Officers and Directors of Mountainside Foundation express their condolences to the family of our friend, co-founder and board member, John Reagan ''Tex'' McCrary. It was his work with our other founders that made the dream for Mountainside a reality. He has been our friend and we will remember him always. Donald W. Van Dyke, Chair Terence R. Dougherty, Pres. Martin P. Fedor, Exec. V.P. Bruce K. Drever, Exec. Dir. Lawrence Kudlow, Director David Lindstrom, Director John A. MacLachlan, Dir. Myra Mahon, Director Frederick Tedford, Director Dian Vince, Director
        McCRARY -- John Reagan ''Tex''. The Officers and Directors of ReadNet Foundation express their condolences to the family of our friend, Tex McCrary. His vision and counsel contributed to the growth of ReadNet. We will miss him. Robin Hubbard, Director Joseph F. Kelly, Director Terence R. Dougherty, Director Catherine Kiser, Director
        McCRARY--Tex. The LeFrak Family and Lefrak Organization extend their deepest condolences to the McCrary family on the passing of a dear friend and business colleague. He was creative, dependable, charming, and a constant source of inspiration. He will be missed but not forgotten.
        McCRARY -- John Reagan ''Tex''. Tex, my friend and mentor. Thank you for your friendship and wise counsel. The Dougherty family will always cherish our very fond memories of you. I miss you, and I will never forget you. To Be Continued. Love, Terry
        McCRARY -- John Reagan ''Tex''. Thank you for your friendship and love. We will never forget you. Love, ''Daisy'', Bill, Will, Alexa and Alyssa Hubbard >>AD#
      