
        DAVIS--James E. Heart of Brooklyn and its members mourn the loss of our esteemed Councilman, a stalwart supporter of arts and culture in central Brooklyn and beyond. His steadfast belief in a better quality of life for his constituents was an inspiration to all who knew him. Ellen F. Salpeter, Director Heart of Brooklyn Judith D. Zuk, President Brooklyn Botanic Gardens Carol Enseki, President Brooklyn Children's Museum Arnold L. Lehman, Director Brooklyn Museum of Art Ginnie Cooper, Director Brooklyn Public Library Tupper Thomas, President Prospect Park Alliance Don Moore, Director Prospect Park Zoo
        DAVIS--James E. The management and staff of Forest City Ratner Companies extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Councilmember James E. Davis. He worked tirelessly on behalf of the people of this city - as a police officer, as a crusader against urban violence and as a representative of the diverse communities of Brooklyn's Council District 35. We were honored to work with James Davis. He will be greatly missed. Bruce Ratner President & CEO, Forest City Ratner Companies
        DAVIS--James E. The Crown Heights Jewish Community Council mourns the tragic loss of our dear friend, the Hon. James E. Davis, New York City Councilman, 35th C.D. Despite a promising career cut short, he has made a difference. We join in grief with his family and friends. Chanina Sperlin, Chairman Rabbi Nochum Gross, Exec. Vice Chairman Yakov Herzog, Secy Daniel Botnick, Exec Dir.
        DAVIS--James. It is with deep regret and sorrow that we acknowledge the loss of Councilman James Davis. The entire Pratt Institute community is stunned and grieved by his sudden death. Councilman Davis' contributions to civic life has been tragically cut short. He will be greatly missed and his death is a loss to our community. Thomas F. Shutte, President Pratt Institute
        DAVIS--James E. The board and staff of BAM mourn the passing of our friend, James E. Davis. He cared deeply about his community and we were proud to have him as our councilman. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Alan H. Fishman, Chairman Karen Brooks Hopkins, Pres.
        DAVIS--James E. On behalf of the Cultural Institutions Group (CIG), we mourn the passing of our friend and advocate, Council Member James E. Davis. Karen B. Hopkins, Chair, CIG >>AD#
      