
        HOPE--Bob. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved member, Bob Hope. He helped us preserve the rich, theatrical roots of The Friars Club and his name belongs among the legendary and immortal Friars like Jack Benny, George Burns, Enrico Caruso, Cary Grant, Dean Martin, Ed Sullivan and Frank Sinatra, and like them he shared a legacy of commitment to the very best. We are honored and proud to have been touched by the legend that will always be Bob Hope. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec Dir
        HOPE--Bob. Fight for Sight was honored to be one of Bob Hope's continuing major interests. Beginning with his generous coast-to-coast telecast for Fight for Sight in 1960, Bob Hope brought excitement, friends, and crucial attention as Honorary Chairman of FFS for 45 years. Until the late '90s, he served as Master of Ceremonies at 25 ''Lights On'' benefits in New York City raising funds for research to prevent blindness. The Board of Directors and volunteers offer sympathies to his wife Dolores, and family, and extend our thanks for sharing this incredible man with us for such great good. Kenneth R. Barasch, M.D. President
        HOPE--Bob. The officers, Directors and Staff of the USO of Metropolitan New York is saddened to learn of the passing of Bob Hope, Mr. USO. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Dolores, 1976 USO Woman of the Year, and his family. ''Thanks for the Memories.'' Stephen J. Scheffer Chairman Robert M. Kreek, Executive Director
        HOPE--Bob. Thanks for the Memory! Kenneth Lane Wagnerian Heldentenor Dir., Festspielhaus (Boonton) Dir., Boonton Music Festivals www.WagnerOpera.com Valhalla Records CDs Lake Hiawatha, NJ
        HOPE--Robert L. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President >>AD#
      