
        REYNOLDS--William Gray Jr. 64, died July 2, 2003 at the home of his brother, Randolph N. Reynolds, after a courageous, extended battle with a brain tumor. Mr. Reynolds was Vice President, Government Relations and Public Affairs, of Reynolds Metals Company at the time of the company's merger with the Aluminum Company of America (Alcoa) in May 2000. Mr. Reynolds was a native of Kentucky and the grandson of the founder of Reynolds Metals, Richard S. Reynolds Sr. He was the son of William Gray Reynolds and Mary Nicklas Reynolds. He is survived by his brother, Randolph N. Reynolds and sister-in-law, Susan V.R. Reynolds; two sisters, Louise R. Belmont of Richmond and Mary Parham Simpson of Athens, Georgia; nieces, Dr. Mary Katherine Ross of Virginia Beach and Elizabeth Parham Simpson of Athens, Georgia; nephews, Randolph N. Reynolds Jr., Ralph S. Reynolds and Robert G. Reynolds, all of Richmond, Cornelius F. Florman, William R. Florman of Kentucky, Kelly G. Florman of Richmond and Kevin M. Brown of Athens, Georgia. Mr. Reynolds graduated from the St. George's School in Newport, R.I., where he was an outstanding athlete receiving All State Honors in three sports, and he was recently elected to the school's Sports Hall of Fame. After St. George's, he graduated from the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School. At the University of Pennsylvania, Mr. Reynolds was the President of the student body and captain of the tennis and squash teams. After the University of Pennsylvania, he received his LL.D. from the University of Virginia Law School in 1965, where he also served as President of the student body. After law school, Mr. Reynolds joined the staff of Kentucky Governor Edward ''Ned'' Breathitt. From 1966 to 1968, he was Assistant U.S. Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office in Washington, D.C. In 1968, he joined the Law Department of Reynolds Metals Company and was named the Executive Assistant to the President and Chairman of the Board of Reynolds Metals Company in 1973. In 1975, he was elected Treasurer of the company, and he became Vice President of Government Relations and Public Affairs in 1980. Mr. Reynolds was a member of the bar in Virginia, Kentucky and the District of Columbia, and has been admitted to practice before the U.S. Supreme Court. He was also Vice President and Treasurer of both the Richard S. Reynolds and Missionary Emergency Foundations. In addition, Mr. Reynolds was a member of St. Paul's Episcopal Church and served on the board of directors of Central Fidelity Bank Inc., Richmond Renaissance and Keep America Beautiful, and also served as a member of Board of Trustees of the Medical College of Virginia Foundation. Mr. Reynolds was a member of the Board of Directors of the Greater Richmond Chapter of the American Red Cross, and served as the Chairman and Visionary of the American Red Cross Golf Classic. Funeral Services for Mr. Reynolds will be held at St. Paul's Episcopal Church on Monday July 7 at 2 p.m. Visitation will take place at Bliley's on Augusta Avenue on Sunday, July 6th from 4 p.m. until 8 p.m. Interment Hollywood Cemetery. Memorial contributions may be made to: Foundation for Cancer Research and Education, 1140 Buck Mountain Road, Earlysville, VA. 22936 or VCU Department of Neurosurgery, P. O. Box 631, MCV Station, Richmond, VA. 23298. >>AD#
      