
        LOEB-David S., 79, died at his home in Wingfield Springs, Nevada on June 30, 2003 after a long illness. He graduated from the Maine Maritime Academy and served in the Merchat Marines during World War II. He served on the Board of Trustees of Maine Maritime, which awarded him an honorary doctorate degree, and was a benefactor of the Academy's Loeb - Sullivan School of International Business and Logistics. He was also a graduate, cum laude, of New YOrk University and subsequently served for thirteen years on the Board of Overseers of the NYU/Stern School of Business. He received the prestigious National Beta Gamma Sigma Award in 1992 and the Stern Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1998. Mr. Loeb endowed a Professorship in Finance at NYU/Stern. David Loeb was a brilliant visionary in the fields of mortgage banking and real estate development. He founded Lomas Realty Securities, which later became United Mortgages Servicing Corporation. He cofounded Countrywide Funding Corporation, which later became the largest independent mortgage banking company in the United States, and served as its President and Chairman from 1969 to 2000. He also cofounded Countrywide Mortgage Investments, which eventually became IndyMac Bancorp, Inc. and served as IndyMac's Chairman from its inception until his retirement this year. In addition to his prominent position in the mortgage banking industry. Mr. Loeb also maintained an active real estate business, and at the time of his death was co-owner of the Wingfield Nevada Group/ Loeb Enterprises, LLC and Coyote Springs investment. David Loeb is survived by his wife, Ingrid Heidi Loeb; his daughters, Tracey Loeb, Heidi Loeb and Wendy Lumsden; his stepson Nicholas Casini; and his grandchildren, Zane, Emily, Zoe, Jennifer, John and Molly. David Loeb's business acumen was surpassed only by his endless zest for life, his enduring passion for sports, music and history and his profound love and dedication to his family and friends. His unique wit and extraordinary wisdom will be greatly missed.
      