
        BERNSTEIN--Ethel (Shankman). Passed away at 88 years of age on July 26, 2003, at home in Scarsdale, NY. Born in Trenton, NJ, on July 10, 1915, to the late Samuel and Beatrice (Elkin) Shankman. Devoted, loving and caring wife to Sidney, who predeceased her in 2002. Loving mother to sons Richard A. and Barry, and daughters-inlaw Amelia and Betsy. Adoring and proud grandmother to Andrew Bernstein, Bradley Bernstein and Jennifer and Gregg Rothkin. Devoted sister to Phyllis Safran, Leonard Shankman and the late PFC Richard A. Shankman (WWII). She will be missed by her family and friends. Services Monday, July 28, at 1 PM, at Congregation Emanu-El of Westchester. In lieu of flowers contributions can be made in Mrs. Bernstein's memory to the White Plains Medical Center or the NYC Police Athletic League.
        BERNSTEIN--Ethel. It is with our sincerest condolences that we express our sorrow over the passing of Mrs. Ethel Bernstein, devoted wife of the late Dr. Sidney Bernstein, mother of our esteemed partner and lifetime friends Richard A. and Amelia Bernstein. We knew her to be a devoted, proud and kind hearted person. We will remember her for her benevolence and loving manner toward her family and friends. Our love to Richard, Amelia and the entire Bernstein family. James & JoAnn Cohen Ira & Judy Gomberg Steven & Mallory Grossman
        BERNSTEIN--Ethel. To our best friend Richard and his family. You were the most amazing, devoted, caring and generous son. The love you showed for your mother was felt by all. Our heartfelt sympathy to your family on the loss of your beloved mother, Ethel. May your fond memories of your wonderful mother help you get through this sad moment in your life. Our prayers and love are with you. The Lerner, Hochfelder and Cohen Family
        BERNSTEIN -- Ethel. Mom, we walked the path of life together. Your love and devotion for your family was unconditional. I admire and respect your incredible courage. May you be peaceful. Love you, Amelia >>AD#
      