
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the passing of its Chairman Emeritus, great leader, champion, benefactor, and guardian, Andrew Heiskell. With great wisdom, and with selfless dedication and devotion for more than two decades, he was the guiding spirit in the Library's resurgence from financial difficulties in the 1970's and helped move the Library into a new century, embodying his vision as a university of the people without equal. Under Mr. Heiskell's leadership, the Library raised over $300 million in the 1980's, and he was directly and instrumentally responsible for securing financial support from diverse public and private sources, in addition to his own generous philanthropy. His great achievements included the restoration of the landmark Library building at Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street to its original grandeur, the upgrading of many of the Branch Libraries in the Bronx, Manhattan, and Staten Island; improved access to the Library's great research collections; and the revival of the preservation program. He helped expand the Library's Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture and strengthen the endowment for The New York Public Library for the Performing Arts. His interest in the Library's immediate surroundings led him to form the Bryant Park Restoration Corporation, responsible for a comprehensive renovation of the Park, and he helped build 44 miles of new storage for the research collections in underground book stacks beneath the Park. The Andrew Heiskell Braille and Talking Book Library, a facility dedicated to serving the blind, visually impaired, and others unable to read standard print material, is named in his honor to recognize his great energy and commitment in making this facility a reality. New York is a better place because of Andrew Heiskell, for his creation of beautiful public spaces, his drive to provide democratic access to knowledge, and his unwavering support of cultural institutions and their role in bettering society. We owe him our deepest, most profound thanks, and we are grateful to have been touched by a man of such extraordinary vision and goodness. We extend our deepest sympathies to Marian Heiskell and to all members of Andrew's family. Mrs. Vincent Astor, Honorary Chairman Samuel C. Butler, Chairman Elizabeth Rohatyn, Marshall Rose, Chairmen Emeriti Paul LeClerc, President
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The Trustees and staff of the Institute of International Education mourn the loss of our good friend Andrew Heiskell, a long-time member of IIE's Board and a former Executive Committee Chairman. Andrew's enduring commitment to bettering the world through international education was most evident in the tireless leadership he provided for IIE's 75th Anniversary Forum, and his help after September 11, in spreading the word of his belief that international education is one of the surest ways to make the world a less dangerous place. Most recently, his interest in supporting the best work on campus lead the Institute to create the Andrew Heiskell Awards for Innovation in International Education. Andrew was very proud of the programs that received the award bearing his name, and was delighted to play a role in recognizing the best practices in the field. All of us at IIE will dearly miss Andrew Heiskell's keen intellect and gracious charm, and we extend heartfelt condolences to Marian Heiskell and the entire family. Thomas S. Johnson, Chairman, Board of Trustees Henry Kaufman, Chairman Emeritus Victor J. Goldberg, Vice Chairman Diane J. Paton, Vice Chairman Allan E. Goodman President and CEO
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The Trustees, Staff, Fellows and other benficiaries of the American Academy in Rome mourn the loss of our beloved champion, Andrew Heiskell. In his magnificent long life, Andrew gave unendingly of his intelligence, wisdom, experience, optimism, kindness, and moral fire. His inestimable contributions-to human citizenry and the many cultural institutions he loved--saved them, steadied them or safeguarded them, assuring their survival for years to come. His contributions to the American Academy elevated it to a level that will help make it available for generations to come, which was his passionate desire, believing as he did in independent thinking and international exchange. We will never see his equal. He was a giant among men. His gallantry at the end was stunning. He never complained. He gave joy and comfort to others up through his last day. Our hearts go out to Marian and the three generations they nurtured together. Michael I. Sovern, Chairman David M. Childs, Chairman Exec Comm Adele Chatfield-Taylor, President Lester K. Little, Director
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The Board, Staff and Artists of Lincoln Center Theater grieve the death of the beloved Vice Chairman of the theater since its re-establishment in 1985, our treasured Andrew Heiskell. The theater was greatly blessed by Andrew's extraordinary spirit, his profound understanding of the way cultural institutions work in New York City. Andrew reveled in the artistic life of the theater. He was endlessly curious about the plays, their provenance and was eager to understand the process by which a script was converted to a production. He was given to saying that having read a play, he couldn't quite imagine it on stage, and was most often delighted by the realization of a production. Andrew's commitment, generosity, kindness and challenging intellect will be sorely missed along with his wise and gently commanding presence. We extend deeply felt condolences to Marian and all the family. John Beinecke, Chairman Linda L. Janklow, Chairman Emeritus John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Director Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The Board and staff of The New York Botanical Garden are saddened by the loss of a dear friend and great New York civic leader. We offer our sympathies to Marian, a longtime Board Member and Honorary Chairman of the Garden's Education Committee. The Sulzberger and Heiskell families have long been committed to science and environmental education for New York City children, including the Garden's school programs. Andrew has been a mentor to many of us, at the Garden, and in many other settings. A gifted institution builder, Andrew was admired for his leadership, never putting himself before the interests of the good causes he worked for. We will miss his wise counsel and the fun we had with him. Wilson Nolen, Chairman Lewis Cullman, Senior Vice Chairman Gregory Long, President Thomas Hubbard, Chairman Emeritus
        HEISKELL--Andrew. The Enterprise Foundation mourns the passing of Andrew Heiskell, our long-time Trustee, Chairman Emeritus of our New York Advisory Board, one of our most energetic and effective supportors, and our honored and trusted friend. Mr. Heiskell managed his transition from this world the way he handled everything--with charm, dignity, a great sense of humor, and his own inimitable style. Our most sincere sympathies go out to Marian and Andrew's family. We are all inspired by the way Andrew lived and we will miss him deeply. Bart Harvey, Chairman & CEO Bill Frey, Sr. Vice President The National Board of Trustees The NY Advisory Board The Enterprise Foundation
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The Board and Staff of People For the American Way grieve the death of our colleague and founding board member Andrew Heiskell. Andrew was a champion of the First Amendment, a pragmatic visionary, and a source of wise counsel to our board and staff for more than twenty years. He was a man of grace, good humor, bracing honesty and tireless commitment to the best values of the country he loved. We remember with respect and affecton his dedication to a vibrantly pluralistic society grounded in the principals of freedom and fairness. Our hearts are with Marian and other family and friends. Norman Lear, Founder Ralph G. Neas, President
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The Board and Staff of The National Audubon Society, and The Board and Officers of Audubon New York send their most heartfelt sympathies to our Board Member Emerita, Marian Heiskell, on the death of her beloved husband Andrew. His philanthropic leadership, especially his support of the Audubon Movement, and the cause of conservation in New York, will never be forgotten. We will all miss Andrew's commitment, caring, and generosity of spirit. We extend our loving condolences to Marian and her family. John Flicker, President Donal O'Brien, Chairman of The Board National Audubon Society
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The board and staff of the Bryant Park Restoration Corporation, and all New Yorkers who have enjoyed Bryant Park over the last twelve years, mourn the loss of our esteemed Chairman Emeritus. Mr. Heiskell put all his credibility behind what seemed to many a quixotic enterprise. We are all grateful that he chose to spend some of his second career on reclaiming the park, and for the guidance he gave all of us over 24 years, and offer our condolences to Marian and his entire family. Michael Fuchs, Chairman Dan Biederman, Executive Director
        HEISKELL -- Andrew. The Board and staff of The New 42nd Street send heartfelt sympathy to Marian Heiskell upon the death of her beloved Andrew. He stood at her elbow, gently encouraging her to undertake the revitalization of 42nd Street's historic theaters with a keen understanding of the challenges she faced coupled with his grace, brilliance, dignity, humanity and lovely wit. We will miss him. Our love to Marian. The Board of The New 42nd Street Cora Cahan, President >>AD#
      