
        MARKE--Julius J. Professor Emeritus, New York University School of Law, Distinguished Professor of Law at St. Johns University. Former Director of the law libraries at both universities. Renowned legal historian, author and scholar. Beloved husband of Sylvia, cherished father of Elisa, treasured father-in-law of Dr. Larry Smiley, adoring Papa of Morgan and Eric and mentor to many. He was deeply loved and will be sorely missed. Service Wednesday, July 2, 12:45 at Riverside Chapel, Amsterdam Ave and 76 St.
        MARKE -- Julius J. The trustees, faculty, staff, alumni and students of New York University School of Law are saddened by the loss of alumnus and Professor Emeritus Julius J. Marke. Professor Marke earned his LL.B. in 1937 and joined the NYU Law Library five years later. Over four decades of his distinguished career at the Law School include his service as Reference Librarian, Assistant Law Librarian, and Director of the Law Library from 1948 to 1984. In 1975, when he was law librarian and a professor of law, he was named Interim Dean and Curator of University Libraries. He was a library consultant to many law schools in the United States and was once described by the American Bar Association Journal as ''the world's greatest law librarian.'' He wrote and edited many legal form books, several of which have become standard reference works. He acted as president of the NYU School of Law chapter of the Order of the Coif from 1970 to 1983, and was a longtime active honorary director of the Law Alumni Associatin. On behalf of the Law School community, we extend our heartfelt sympathy to Julius's wife, Sylvia, and daughter, Elisa. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Lester Pollack, Chairman NYU School of Law Foundation Richard Revesz, Dean NYU School of Law
        MARKE--Julius J. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of its Honorary and Past President and extends condolences to his beloved wife Sylvia, and dear family. We will miss his sage advice, kind and modest manner, and sense of humor. >>AD#
      