
        GITELSON--Paul. On June 30, 2003. Beloved husband of Aileen. Devoted father of Lisa and Michael and father-inlaw of Adam Eggers and Eileen Lopez. Cherished grandfather of Elinor Eggers. Dear brother of David and Alan. Contributions in his memory may be made to Jewish Child Care Association, 120 Wall Street, NYC 10005. Services Wednesday 9:30 AM at Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83rd Street, NYC. For information ''The Riverside'' 212-362-6600.
        GITELSON--Paul, D.S.W. The Trustees and Staff of Jewish Childcare Association mourn the loss of Paul Gitelson, who as Chief Executive Officer of JCCA from 1992 to the present, led the agency through a decade of vast changes in practice and attitudes towards children and families. Dr. Gitelson began at JCCA in 1982 as Training Director and during his eleven years at JCCA's helm, was responsible for the institution of familycentered practice, an agencywide approach to working with children in partnership with their families; an increased emphasis on independent living skills training; and accountability. He was active in the child welfare community, holding posts at C.W.L.A., C.O.F.C.C.A., H.S.C., A.A.C.R.C. and U.J.A.-Federation of New York. Paul was immensely devoted to his family and extraordinarily proud of their role in social welfare in New York City. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Aileen Gitelson, his children, Lisa and Michael and their families. Paul had a passion for social justice and a talent for connecting warmly with people; clients, trustees, colleagues and public officials benefited from his friendship and fine sense of humor. His contributions on behalf of children and families were significant. He will be missed. Barbara B. Mann, President Joyce L. Kramer, Board Chair Richard Altman, C.O.O.
        GITELSON--Dr. Paul. The Board and Staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged expresses its profound sorrow at the passing of Dr. Paul Gitelson, husband of Aileen Gitelson, JASA's Chief Operating Officer. Dr. Gitelson was the Chief Executive Officer of the Jewish Child Care Association and dedicated his professional career to helping to make life better for all children. He was devoted to his wife Aileen and to his children Lisa and Michael. His granddaughter Elinor was the light of his life. Dr. Gitelson's passing diminishes us all. Everyone who had the privilege of knowing him will surely miss his presence. Our hearts go out to Aileen, to his daughter Lisa and her husband Adam Eggers, to his son Michael and his wife Eileen Lopez, to his granddaughter Elinor Eggers, to his brothers and to the extended Gitelson family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. David M. Warren, President Leonard Boxer, Chair
        GITELSON--Dr. Paul. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with profound sorrow the death of Dr. Paul Gitelson. Paul was a gifted leader and social worker. He cared deeply about the welfare of children and was unwavering in his commitment to social justice. His life work helped improve the lives of countless numbers of children and families. He was highly respected by his colleagues for his keen intelligence and appreciated for his warmth and wit. The child welfare field has lost a passionate advocate and we have lost a great friend and colleague. We extend our sympathy to Aileen, Lisa, Adam, Emma, Michael and Eileen. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive VP and CEO Paul Levine, CSW, Assoc. Executive VP
        GITELSON--Paul. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the sudden passing of Paul Gitelson, a treasured colleague and friend of the Jewish community. For more than a decade, Paul served as chief executive officer of the Jewish Child Care Association of New York, a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation. Throughout his career, he demonstrated a consistent devotion to improving the quality of life for the children and families in his care. His expertise and counsel were called upon by professionals in our agency network, and will long be missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Aileen; to his children, Lisa and Michael; to his granddaughter, Ella; and to his entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        GITELSON--Paul. It is with the deepest sadness that we mourn the passing of Paul Gitelson, C.E.O. of Jewish Childcare Association, communal leader, a devoted husband, father, grandfather, and a dear friend. Paul will always be remembered for his constant desire to learn more so that he could improve the lives of so many who depended upon his leadership. On behalf of all of us at F.E.G.S., we offer his wife, Aileen and his wonderful family our deepest condolences. Joseph Stein, Jr., President and Chair Alfred P. Miller, C.E.O. >>AD#
      