
        GREENFIELD -- Lawrence. Age 67. Of New York City and Roxbury, CT., died peacefully at his home in Manhattan on July 7, 2003 following a battle with brain cancer, during which he showed the utmost courage, dignity and spirit. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Loving father of Lauren, Lisa and Peter. Stepfather of James Greenberg. Grandfather of Onyx and Kaya. Brother of Leanne Shulman. Dear friend and associate of many. Larry will be remembered for his devotion to his family, his philanthropy, his many years of business leadership, and by friends and colleagues for his innumerable, quiet acts of compassion and support. Larry was a board member of The University of Wisconsin Foundation, where his unwavering commitment to The Center for Jewish Studies led to the creation of The Greenfield Summer Institute Program and The Center's annual newsletter. The Institute brings together people with an interest in Judaism for a week of study, discussion and other activities at the University campus in Madison. In addition to his support for Jewish education, Larry was keenly interested in the arts, both as an observer and a practicing writer and sculptor. In his forty years with the Kaye Group, of which he served as President and Chairman, he was instrumental in the firm's growth to one of the nation's largest insurance brokerage organizations. His astute insight and understanding of business and professional risks enabled him to devlop innovative and unique methods of risk management, many of which are widely practiced today. All who knew Larry will miss his dynamic energy, spirit, wit and kindness. Funeral service Thursday, July 10th, 12 Noon, at Congregation Rodeph Sholom 7 W. 83 St., N.Y. In lieu of flowers, contributions in Larry's memory may be made to The University of Wisconsin Foundation, c/o The Center for Jewish Studies, 1848 University Ave, Madison, WI 53708-1319.
        GREENFIELD -- Lawrence. FOJP Service Corporation and its Board of Directors record with sincere sorrow the untimely passing of Lawrence Greenfield, former President and Chairman of the Kaye Group. In his long association with FOJP as both consultant and friend, Larry served on many committees and was instrumental in our early program development. Our deepest sympathy goes to his wife, Roslyn, and their family. George J. Grumbach, Jr., Chairman Lisa Kramer, President & CEO
        GREENFIELD -- Lawrence. The partners and staff of Stern, Keiser, Panken & Wohl extend their deepest sympathies to Ros, Lauren, Lisa, Peter, Jamie, Onyx and Kaya on the passing of their cherished husband, father and grandfather.
        GREENFIELD -- Lawrence. The entire Dunewood community mourns the loss of our friend and neighbor, Larry Greenfield. He will be missed by all. We send condolences to his wife, Roz, and his family. Dunewood Prop. Ownrs Assn
        GREENFIELD -- Lawrence. Wilma, Howard, Ross and Robin Kaye mourn the loss of our partner and dear friend, Lawrence Greenfield, a truly unique man we will never forget. Our hearts and deepest sympathy are with the family
        GREENFIELD -- Lawrence. Dear Larry, what great times we had! We'll always miss you. Love, Julie and Roger >>AD#
      