
        ERGAS-Martin. August 7, 1950-March 5, 2003. Martin Ergas, a visionary Miami philanthropist, real estate investor, entrepreneur and attorney has died of cancer at the age of 52. A passionate advocate and donor in the effort to make life better for people with spinal cord injuries, Mr. Ergas was a founding patron and member of the Board of Trustees of the Miami Project To Cure Paralysis. He supported the Martin Ergas Gym at Miami Children's Hospital, Mt. Sinai Hospital of Miami Beach, University of Miami and Shake-A-Leg. His dedication and contribution to the field of neuromuscular paralysis was initiated by his own spinal cord injury sustained at the age of eight as the result of a sign falling from a building in New York City. Mr. Ergas has served as a Trustee of the International Spinal Research Trust, London, and as a Director of the American Paralysis Association. In 1980 founded Therapeutic Technologies, which developed the Ergys electrical stimulation bicycle that allows paraplegics and quadraplegics to exercise aerobically. His interests also included real estate. In 1983 he began work on Deco Plaza, the first redevelopment project following the establishment of the Art Deco National Historic District. It received the Miami Beach Development Corporation Award as the Best Rehab of 1985. The son of Jack and Grace Ergas of Cedarhurst, NY, Mr. Ergas moved with his family to Bal Harbour in 1968 and entered the University of Miami. He received his BBA in 1972 and his JD from the U of M Law School in 1974. He remained a member of the Florida Bar and resident of Dade County throughout his life. Marty was admired most for his charm, his wit, his intellect, his love of the moment, and for his unfaltering sense of possibilities. He was loved by his family and friends as an extraordinary listener who offered straightforward advice with warmth and wisdom. He loved challenges: he learned to sail in the San Francisco Bay and fly fish in Colorado; he played tennis and completed the Orange Bowl Marathon in his wheelchair. Mr. Ergas maintained an active interest in the history of the Sephardic Jews and in that of his own family who had lived in the former Ottoman Empire for more than four centuries. He maintained relationships with family and friends in Western Europe, Greece, Turkey, Israel, Australia, Chile and Canada. He spoke Ladino (the old Spanish) and French, his conversations seasoned with Turkish phrases learned from his father. He is survived by his wife Shaari Ergas of Coconut Grove, stepchildren Jamie Hallman of Los Angeles and Justin Hallman of San Francisco, mother Grace Ergas of Bal Harbour, sister Betti Zucker of NYC, and a large extended family. Donations in his memory to the Fairchild Tropical Garden in Coral Gables will be directed to the development of wheelchair accessible transportation to tour the gardens. Service at the SF Columbarium, August 7, 2003, 1:30pm.
      