
        BATSCHA--Robert M. On July 4, 2003. Devoted father and dear friend. His commitment to and compassion for family, friends, and The Museum of Television & Radio, were unwavering and will be sorely missed. He approached life with purpose and voracious energy, never wasting a second. His warmth, intelligence, and sense of humor touched everyone he came in contact with. His indomitable spirit will remain forever in our hearts. His grounding values, uncompromised and firm, will forever provide a guide for his son Eric. With humor, care, and grace, he built lasting friendships and extended his family. We love and miss him. Contributions can be made to the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine/The Janet Cuttner Research Fund, 1735 York Ave, NY, NY 10128. Eric Batscha Francine Sommer
        BATSCHA--Robert M. On July 4, 2003. The Board of Trustees and the staff of The Museum of Television & Radio in both New York and Los Angeles mourn the untimely passing of our beloved President. His commitment and unwavering belief in the Museum and its mission were instrumental in securing the Museum's reputation as a leading cultural institution. His dedication, vision, determination, and unfaltering leadership guided and inspired us for more than 20 years. The loss to the Museum is immeasurable, and he will be sorely missed and long remembered by everyone who knew and admired him. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his son Eric and the rest of his family. Services are private. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Frank A. Bennack, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Trustees
        BATSCHA -- Robert. Dear Bob, you were a singular friend, bright, talented and never ever pretentious. You enriched our lives and you established standards of love between father and son. Although you were singled out to die long before the age of dying, you were short changed. However life is indeed a crap shoot and we are obliged to follow a throw of the dice. To say that we love you and miss you is an understatement. Mimi and Mortimer >>AD#
      