
        TURECK -- Rosalyn. The Tureck Bach Research Institute, Inc., mourns the passing on July 17th of its Founder and Artistic Director, renowned keyboard artist, teacher, and Bach scholar Rosalyn Tureck. Reconstituted from her earlier Tureck Bach Institute after her return to this country in September 2001, Dr. Tureck established the Tureck Bach Research Institute, Inc. for the purpose of furthering research and performance of the music of Johann Sebastian Bach through Fellowships and Grants and for the promoting of the study and performance of Bach's music by very young pianists through an annual competition in her name to be held in the United States and Russia, beginning in 2005. The Tureck Bach Research Institute, Inc., will also oversee the publication of Dr. Tureck's writings, including an autobiography she completed just weeks before her death, lectures, and master classes. She also completed a book on the Goldberg Variations, revised her ''Introduction to Bach,'' and prepared a book on the Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue, which will be edited under the artistic supervision of the Tureck Bach Research Institute, Inc. Dr. Tureck's books, papers, scores, manuscripts, and collection of ethnic and early instruments will be kept in perpetuity at the Special Collections of Boston University Library and are available for scholarly research. All her original recorded material of live performances, lectures, and master classes are kept in perpetuity at the New York Public Library at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and are also available for research. Her CDs and videos will continue to be released by Video Artists International. She requested that there be no funeral but a memorial service, which will be held at the Lowenstein Auditorium of Temple Emanu-El, 10 East 66th Street, New York, NY, at 5:00pm on Tuesday, September 9, 2003. Friends, family, colleagues, and music-lovers, are invited. Donations to the Tureck Bach Research Institute, Inc., a New York not-for-profit corporation, founded and authorized by Rosalyn Tureck, will be accepted in her name at 2500 Johnson Avenue, 17A, Riverdale, NY 10463 or questions regarding donations, email bachalia14@aol.com. Website: www.tureckbach.com. Tureck Bach Research Institute, Inc. David Posner, Honorary President Kevin Kleinmann, President Ernest Gilbert, Vice President Michael Charry, Treasurer
        TURECK -- Rosalyn. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sadness the passing of its beloved friend Rosalyn Tureck on July 17 in Riverdale, New York at the age of 88. A native of Chicago, Mme. Tureck studied with Jan Chiapusso, Sophia Brilliant-Liven and later with Olga Samaroff at The Juilliard School. Her legendary Town Hall recitals of 1937 ignited her fame as a Bach specialist. She was a forward thinking musician who championed contemporary composers and inventive programming. A scholar of great renown, her creativity and passion for her music brought her an important public following. Mme. Tureck was a devoted member of the Steinway Artist family for more than six decades, and she was an inspiring force in the world of music. Her loss is deeply felt, but her acclaimed discography will keep her legacy alive for future generations. To her family we extend our heartfelt condolences. Bruce A. Stevens, President Peter B. Goodrich, V.P., Worldwide Concert and Artist Activities >>AD#
      