
        EISNER--Jack P. November 15, 1925-August 24, 2003. Born in Warsaw, Poland. Died in New York City. Cherished husband of Sara. Devoted father of Lee, Philip and Arnold. Beloved and respected grandfather of Alexandra and Lauren. A charismatic, inspirational and innovative leader of the Holocaust survivor community, he built up a successful international trade business after surviving the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising and Majdanek, Budzyn and Flossenburg concentration camps as a teenager. Served as a witness at Nazi war criminal trials. He was the founder of the Warsaw Ghetto Resistance Organization and the Holocaust Survivors Memorial Foundation and organizer of the first Holocaust commemoration event in the United States. He retired from business in 1978 to dedicate his life to write, lecture, and produce films and plays to educate the public on the significance of the Jewish Holocaust. Jack was the author of the autobiographical ''The Survivor'' (Morrow, 1980; reprinted by Kensington) on which the movie ''War and Love'' (written by Abby Mann and directed by Moshe Mizrahi) and the Broadway play ''The Survivor'' (written by Susan Nanus) was based. He produced documentary films and appeared in many others based on the Holocaust. He established the first Institute of Holocaust Studies at CUNY with public scholarly lectures and the first chair in Holocaust Studies at the Harvard Divinity School. Jack was the inspiration and sponsor of the controversial Goldberg Commission created to investigate the role played by American Jews during the Holocaust and chaired by Supreme Court Justice Arthur Goldberg. In 1993 he created the Children's Memorial Monument in Warsaw at the entrance of the Jewish cemetery dedicated to the one and a half million Jewish children killed by the Nazis. The memorial is visited by hundreds of thousands of tourists each year. In 1995 he organized the first Holocaust memorial event ever held at the Vatican at which Pope John Paul II presided. In the past decade he turned his attention to lecturing and writing on the role that Christianity and its teachings contributed to the Holocaust. He dedicated himself to promoting ChristianJewish tolerance and dialogue. His latest book ''The Happy Boys'' deals with the immediate postwar struggle of his group of orphaned teenage friends to rebuild their lives after the concentration camps. It is due to be published in early 2004.
      