
        RAYMOND--Edward A., Dr. 88, died at his home in Scarsdale NY on August 18, 2003. He had been under home hospice care for several months after treatment for cancer. The son of Edward Raymond of Bedford, NY and Louise Hammond Raymond of Greens Farms, CT, he was raised in Scarsdale NY. He attended the Choate School, class of 1933, and then Yale College, class of 1937. He received his MD from Cornell Medical School in 1941. He was a captain in the US Army 1941-1946 performing medical operations, and he completed his residency at Memorial Hospital (now Sloan-Kettering) in New York in 1947. He carried on his practice of general surgery in Scarsdale, Hartsdale and White Plains, and had a 30-year association with White Plains Hospital. He performed surgery of all kinds, especially in emergency and accident cases. He was an early proponent of bone-grafting techniques and restored many seriously injured patients in the entire Westchester area. From 1956 to 1986 he was the School Physician for Scarsdale Public Schools. He attended most of the school football games, treating injuries himself or immediately referring the patients to other specialists. He was a regular member of the Scarsdale Volunteer Fire Dept and was frequently on hand at fires to assess and treat injuries. An avid tennis and platform tennis player, he was a long-time member of the Fox Meadow Tennis Club in Scarsdale, where he continued to play this year through the age of 87. He was an enthusiastic bridge player along with his wife Louise. The family had membership at the American Yacht Club in Rye, NY. In 1941 he married Louise Tanner of Portland, Oregon, who also attended Cornell Medical School and taught piano. She predeceased him, in 1991. Dr. Raymond is survived by his five children: Carol of Santa Fe, NM, Douglas of Blue Bell, PA, James of Las Vegas, NV, Edward of Blue Bell, PA, and Nancy of Eugene, OR. There are 11 grandchildren. Burial will be private and there is no funeral service. Donations are suggested in behalf of Hospice and Palliative Care of Westchester, 95 South Broadway, White Plains, New York 10601.
      