
        RACKMAN--Honey. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of our special friend and benefactress, Honey Rackman, beloved wife of Michael Rackman and devoted daughter-in-law of our revered Chancellor Rabbi Emanuel Rackman and Ruth Rackman, z''l. Honey Rackman possessed an indomitable spirit that extended to the practice and teaching of chesed for the poor, isolated and oppressed. She was an outstanding leader in Orthodox feminist circles and deeply committed to the plight of agunot, exemplified by her tireless activities on their behalf. At Bar-Ilan University, she was a long-time supporter of the Exodus Student Program, took pride in the progress of Ethopian students that she and her husband sponsored and hosted events to foster the participation of others in this important effort. She was a frequent visitor to the Bar-Ilan campus where she enjoyed meeting and interacting with students. She set a wonderful example for all to emulate. May the family derive solace from inspiring memories and be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Aharon Dahan, Chairman Global Board of Trustees Melvin Stein, President American Board of Trustees Professor Moshe Kaveh, President Bar-Ilan University Brigadier General (Retired) Yehuda Halevy, Executive Vice President Bar-Ilan University
        RACKMAN--Honey. The Yeshiva University family is deeply saddened by the passing of a widely-respected and deeply cherished alumna of Stern College for Women. She was the beloved wife of Michael Rackman, mother of Elliot (and Deborah) Rackman, Rebecca (and Zvi) Lando, and Janet (and Dr. Zvi) Ingber, and sister of Phyllis Toporovsky, as well as the beloved daughter-inlaw of our dear friend, former Provost, and distinguished Yeshiva College and rabbinic alumnus, Rabbi Dr. Emanuel Rackman. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Richard M. Joel, President Yeshiva University Rabbi Norman Lamm, Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Julius Berman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees Marjorie Diener Blenden, Chairman SCW Board
        RACKMAN--Honey. As a Silver Founder, together with her husband Michael, and a member of our National Women's Division Board, Honey exuded great passion for the Jewish community and its myriad causes. With her zest for life and concern for others, Honey displayed great courage and dignity that will be remembered by all who knew and loved her. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem >>AD#
      