
        KIRSCHBERG--Reva. (nee Godlove) 81, died August 22 at Roosevelt Hospital on Tenth Avenue. She suffered a stroke on August 20 while attending a Mostly Mozart concert at Lincoln Center. Mrs. Kirschberg was a renowned historian of Jewish art and Judaica. She was a founder and the first director of The Herbert & Eileen Bernard Museum at Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York. She contributed extensively to the book that catalogs the museum's collection, ''A Temple Treasury, The Judaica Collection of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York.'' A member of the temple's board, she also served as president of its Women's Auxiliary and was the chief archivist of the Temple. She served as a member of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion's Board of Overseers, was also a director of its Museum, and was the head docent for many years. She earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Texas and a master's degree in education from the University of Houston. She was born on November 22, 1921 to Hazel and Walter Godlove in Kansas City, MO. She was raised in Houston and moved to Manhattan in 1954. She is survived by daughters Ann Holland and Nancy Mantell; their husbands, Darrell Holland and Edmund Mantell; and grandchildren, Darrell Holland, Jr., Paul Holland, Joanna Brown, David Mantell, Adam Mantell and Ruth Mantell. She was preceded in death by husband Alan Kirschberg, who died in 1992, and husband Lt. Richard H. Holstein, who was killed in 1945 in Europe while serving in the U.S. Army. The funeral will be held at 11 AM on Monday in the main sanctuary of Congregation Emanu-El at Fifth Avenue and 65th Street. The family will receive friends after 4 PM on Monday at her residence. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Reva G. Kirschberg Memorial Fund at HUC-JIR, 4 W. Mercer Street, New York, NY 10012.
        KIRSCHBERG -- Reva God love. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York mourns the passing of our cherished and devoted member Reva Godlove Kirschberg. A woman of dignity, of compassion and of commitment, her life was a vessel of holiness in the service of God, Torah, and the Jewish people. She treasured the heritage of Judaism in the repository of its holy objects, its noble ideals, and its sacred purposes. Her love of Judaica was the motivating force in the creation of our Temple's Herbert and Eileen Bernard Museum of Judaica, to which she ministered with singular strength and determination. As a past President of Temple Emanu-El's Women's Auxilitry, she was a leader with purpose and vision. She gave us friendship, she gave us wisdom, and she gave us love. May her soul be bound up in the bond of eternal life. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernard, Pres. Herbert C. Bernard, Secy.
        KIRSCHBERG -- Reva God love. The Museum Committee of Congregation EmanuEl of the City of New York mourns the loss of our curator emerita, beloved friend, and mentor. Reva created the museum more than 25 years ago, was a generous donor to the collection, and established the Archives Committee in recent years. Her wisdom, energy, strength and humor will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathy to her family. Frances A. Hess, Chairman Elka Deitsch, Senior Curator
        KIRSCHBERG -- Reva. The Women's Auxiliary of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York notes with great sadness the death of our esteemed Honorary President Reva Godlove Kirschberg. Her commitment to Temple Emanu-El and to the Women's Auxiliary was an extraordinary one. She was an inspiration, a guiding light and a mentor. We will miss our wonderful friend. Eva Haberman, President Tarnie Goldstine, Recording Secretary
      