
        SILVERMAN--Herbert R. 91, a corporate financial executive, leading figure in the commercial finance industry, distinguished attorney and philanthropist, died on Thursday, August 21, 2003, in NYC. Mr. Silverman founded Centaur Credit Corporation, a commercial finance company that merged with James Talcott, Inc, in 1945 to form one of the largest commercial lending firms in the world. He served as chairman and CEO of Talcott from 1961-1973. A pioneer and innovator in the commercial finance industry, Mr. Silverman was the founding president of the National Commercial Finance Conference (1948-1952) and served as its chairman from 1952-1958. He was also a senior advisor to Bank Julius Baer and chairman of the Finance Committee at Helmsley-Spear, Inc, from 1974-1990. Mr. Silverman received a BA from NYU in 1932, and a JD from St. Lawrence University in 1935. He was admitted to the New York Bar in 1935. While pursuing his undergraduate degree, Mr. Silverman was the founding president of NYU's first all university student body government. In addition to his achievements as a business leader, Mr. Silverman was a Life Trustee of the NYU Board of Trustees and Medical Center; Honorary Retired Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees, NYU; Adjunct Professor of Finace, NYU College of Business and Public Administration, 1973-1978; Professor of Finance, BPA; President, NYU Alumni Federation, 1958-1961; and founding Chairman of the NYU $111 Million Leadership Campaign. Mr. Silverman was a recipient of the Golden Medallion for Humanitarian Services, B'nai B'rith and the Albert Gallatin Award, NYU. He was a member of the ABA and New York Bar Association. Mr. Silverman, husband of the late Roslyn Moskowitz and Nadia Gray, is survived by his brother, Saul S. Silverman; son, Henry R. Silverman and daughter-in-law, Nancy Silverman; daughter, Karen Mayers and son-in-law, Daniel Mayers; grandchildren, Robin Silverman; Debbie Silverman; Cassie Silverman; Peter Mayers; Leslie Shroyer; and great-grandchildren, Amy Shroyer; Aaron Shroyer; Christopher Mayers; Lucia Mayers; Noah Keates; and Emma Keates.
        SILVERMAN--Herbert R. August 21, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Roslyn and the late Nadia Silverman. Devoted father of Karen Mayers and Henry R. Silverman. Cherished grandfather of Robin, Deborah, Cassie, Peter and Leslie. Loving brother of Saul S. Silverman. He was the CEO of James Talcott, Inc. Funeral private.
      