
        WITTENSTEIN--Aileen C. An extraordinary and dearly loved woman, Aileen died on August 17, 2003, at the age of 75. She was the beloved wife of the late Arthur Wittenstein; loving mother of Andrew Wittenstein, Kate Wittenstein and Jessica Barranco; dearest mother-in-law of Vicki Wittenstein, Greg Kaster and David Barranco; adoring grandmother of Ted and Amanda Wittenstein, and Nicholas, Allison and James Barranco; cherished sister and sister-in-law of Bruce and Wilma Classon and Charles and Elinor Wittenstein; and devoted niece of Jeanette Millman. To those who knew her, Aileen was a beacon of strength and love, and a great source of guidance and wisdom. A 1950 graduate of Smith College, Aileen was a former President of United Neighborhood Houses of New York City, and served for many years on the Board of Directors of the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service. Her sharp wit, keen intellect, and unflagging devotion to her famliy, friends and community will be remembered by all. A memorial service will be held at 11 AM, on Tuesday, August 19, 2003, at the Brooklyn Heights Synagogue, 131 Remsen St, Brooklyn Heights, NY 11201; (718) 522-2070. Contributions in her memory can be sent to the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, 285 Schermerhorn St, Brooklyn, NY 11217.
        WITTENSTEIN -- Aileen C. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service mourns the loss of our beloved friend, Aileen Wittenstein, who leaves behind the legacy of remarkable leadership. For more than eighteen years, Aileen gave selflessly as a Director and Officer of The Board, and a member of The Executive Committee. She chaired the agency's 125th Anniversary Celebration and The Strategic Planning and Nominating Committees. We shall miss her wise counsel, her extraordinary generosity, and her unfailing commitment to the less fortunate members of our society. Our deepest sympathy to her children, Andrew, Kate, Jessica, Vicki, Greg, and David, her grandchildren, and her entire family. Aileen was a model of dedicated volunteerism, whose achievements will enrich our agency forever. Wallace P. Parker, Jr., Chairman Donna A. Santarsiero, Executive Director
      