
        BAKER--Julius. The Juilliard community profoundly mourns the death of Julius Baker, a member of the Juilliard faculty from 1954 to 2003, and one of the most prominent flutists and distinguished teachers of the 20th Century. With impeccable technique, expressive sound, flawless phrasing, and great imagination, Julius Baker brought the art of flute playing to new and unexpected levels. As a teacher, he worked with future generations of principal orchestral players, chamber musicians and solo artists who now perform on the world's stages. His quick wit and warm personality will be deeply missed, but his legacy continues through his teaching and through his performances. We send our deepest condolences to his beloved wife, Ruth, his children, and his many friends. A service will be held on Sunday, August 10, 2003, at 2 PM in The Old Southeast Church in Brewster, NY. For information, contact Beecher Funeral Home, 845-279-3615. Bruce Kovner, Chairman Joseph W. Polisi, President The Juilliard School
        BAKER--Julius. The New York Philharmonic notes with sadness the death, on August 6th, of Julius Baker, Principal Flute of the Philharmonic from 1965 through the 1982-83 season. One of the world's foremost flutists, Mr. Baker made numerous solo appearances both with the Philharmonic and as a soloist in the U.S. and abroad. Prior to the Philharmonic, he performed with the orchestras of Cleveland, Chicago and Pittsburgh, among others. He also taught for many years at The Juilliard School and his alma mater, The Curtis Institute of Music. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Ruth, his children, Muffy, Jonathan, and Jennie, and his sister, Jessie Weber. Lorin Maazel, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Gunther, Chairman Zarin Mehta, Exec. Director Members of the Staff
        BAKER--Julius. The Faculty, Students and Staff of The Curtis Institute of Music mourn the loss of our Alumnus, longtime faculty member and dear friend Julius Baker. His music, enthusiasm, irrepressible humor and all-encompassing warmth will be sorely missed. We send our deepest sympathy to his wife Ruth and his family. Gary Graffman, President The Curtis Institute of Music Philadelphia
      