
        GITTELSON--Anders. A leading American Realist painter, he died on July 28 in Atlanta after a long illness. He was 81. Gittelson, whose brush name was Gisson, was born in 1921 in Brooklyn. Graduated from the Pratt Institute and was a Captain in the Army during World War II. Over four decades, his one-man shows extended from New York, Washington, Texas and California to London, Paris and Tokyo. His work is in the collections of the Smithsonian Institution and the Triton Museum of Art, in North Carolina. Among his private collectors were President Lyndon B. Johnson and W. Somerset Maugham. He lived and worked in Westport, Conn., for 25 years prior to his illness. Pre-deceased by his sons Glen and David Gittelson. Survived by his daughter Cathy Gittelson Winston of Atlanta and his stepchildren Gwen Pier of New York, Bruce Graham of Fairfield, Conn., and Eric Putzig of Bali, Indonesia. Private memorial service in the fall.
        GITTLESON--Allan Tod. Age 86, on August 12, 2003 from Alzheimer's disease. Tod was first a highly successful businessman, and then a dedicated philanthropist, touching countless people with his kindness and generosity. Tod was born in Nova Scotia, Canada, educated in the New York City schools and lived in Roslyn Heights and Old Westbury. He founded many companies, including Allan Manufacturing, Allan Marine, T.O.D. Manufacturing, International Swimming Pool, Marlowe Yacht, A-Drive, and Island Helicopter. He also served as Chairman of the Board of Jervis Corporation and its subsidiaries Harman Kardon and Harman International Corporation. Education and health were Tod's primary concerns. He was Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Trustees at Hofstra University. He joined the Board in 1967, and played a key role in the University's growth and development, serving for 30 years in various capacities. He was the proud founder and CEO of the Hofstra Health Dome, a non-profit fitness facility, dedicated to improving nutrition and health. Tod was an avid supporter of the arts on Long Island and active in community affairs. He was former board chairman of the non-profit Theatre Society of Long Island and served on the Board of PAF Playhouse. He was the president of the Sports Fishing Institute and was a director of the Long Island Review. He served on the Board of Olsten Corporation, American Heart Association, North Shore University Hospital, and the National Conference of Christians and Jews. He also was a founding board member of the Old Westbury Golf & Country Club. Tod is survived by his beloved wife of 64 years, Mildred; two daughters, June Gittleson and Nancy Hodson; three grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren; and a brother Henry. The family would also like to acknowledge his dedicated caregivers, Julian Solania and Jessie Balan. His final gift was the donation of his brain to Taub Institute at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center for research on Alzheimer's disease. ''Dad--Everything's under Control!'' Donations in Tod's name may be made to: Long Island Alzheimer's Foundation, 5 Channel Dr, Port Washington, NY 11050; or Metropolitan Hospice of Greater New York, 6323 7th Ave, Brooklyn, NY 11220. A memorial service will be held in Monroe Hall at Hofstra University on September 19, at 4 PM.
      