
        ALPERN--Lloyd J. Only child of the late Bernard E. and Mae Alpern, died suddenly on August 19, 2003 at the age of 75. A kind and charitable man, revered by family and friends, who as president of the Alpern Family Foundation was instrumental in generously supporting research in cerebral palsy and cancer at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Chemotherapy Foundation, and the Children's Hospital of Boston. Funeral services at 9:30AM on Friday, August 22nd at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Interment at Beth Israel Cemetery, Woodbridge, NJ. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to a charity of your choice.
        ALPERN--Lloyd. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of its beloved Benefactor, who established both a professorial chair in cerebral palsy research and a floor in cancer research at our institution. Through the activities of the Alpern Family Foundation, he continued the tradition of philanthropic support for medical research begun by his late parents, Mae and Bernard Alpern. A man of courage and kindness, he reached out to others despite his own struggle with serious illness. To his family and friends, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Dr. Norman Lamm Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        ALPERN--Lloyd J. The board of trustees and staff of The Chemotherapy Foundation record with great sorrow the passing of staunch benefactor, Lloyd Alpern. Lloyd's humanitarian concern and involvement in our cancer research programs began over 30 years ago, when his uncle, Jacob J. Alpern, became a founding trustee of The Chemotherapy Foundation. In 1970, under the guidance and commitment of his uncle and his father, Bernard, the Alpern family was instrumental in building our first research Laboratory. In 1989, the family was again in the forefront to accomplish the rebuilding and expansion of the Lab. As president of the Alpern Family Foundation, Lloyd's integrity in continuing to provide notable support of the lab has profoundly influenced the scope and impact of the foundation's program. Ezra M. Greenspan, M.D. Chairman & Medical Director Barry Richter, President
        ALPERN--Lloyd J. A friendly and generous man who lived a full and active life despite a major disability from birth. His youthful and winning smile will be missed. Jo-Anne and Martin H. Schneider
      