
        WARD--Judge Robert J., August 5, 2003. Beloved husband of Renee J. Loving father of Judge Laura A. and Carolyn Ward; devoted brother of Joan W. Hill; cherished stepfather of Lawrence D. and Jonathan E. and Lauren Roberts, Jeffrey and Leslie Sokolow, Judith Sokolow, and Jonathan Sokolow and Dr. Laura Pasternak; doting grandfather. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services or M.S. Society, N.Y.C. Chapter. Funeral service Thursday, 1 PM at Temple Emanu-El, 1 East 65 Street, New York City.
        WARD--Judge Robert J. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with profound sadness the death of the Hon. Robert J. Ward, a Senior Federal Judge, United States Court For The Southern District of New York. Judge Ward was the beloved husband of Renee J. Ward, a valued JBFCS Vice-President, Past Chair of its Child Development Center, and current Chair of its Board Governance Committee, and VicePresident of The Shield Institute, a JBFCS affiliate. As a Federal Judge for more than thirty years, Judge Ward served with the utmost integrity and sense of fairness. The respect he received from all members of the bar was unparalleled. Judge Ward was extremely kind, compassionate, and warm, and cared deeply about the field of child welfare, and the work of our agency. He was always supportive of Renee's involvement, and he and Renee were true partners. Bob will be deeply missed by his family, friends, and the community he served with distinction. Our condolences to Renee, daughters, Carolyn, and Judge Laura, and step children, Lawrence, Jonathan and Lauren, Jeffrey and Leslie, Judith and Jonathan and Laura, and nine grandchildren whom he loved very much. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive VP and CEO Paul Levine, CSW, Assoc. Executive VP Marian Davidson-Amodeo, CSW, Director, Child Development Center
        WARD--Robert J. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Judge Robert J. Ward, beloved husband of Renee Ward, who is a dedicated supporter of UJA-Federation and a trustee of our beneficiary agency, the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services. We extend our deepest sympathies to Renee and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        WARD--Robert J. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and former colleague, Bob Ward. He was a distinguished lawyer and jurist. We will miss his kindness, friendship and wise counsel. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Renee, his daughters Laura and Carolyn and family. The funeral service will be held on Thursday, August 7, 1 PM, at Temple Emanu-el, One East 65th St. (Note time and change of location). Robert M. Morgenthau, and Morgenthau Association
        WARD--Judge Robert. The Officers and Board of Directors of The Shield Institute, an affiliate of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, sends sincere condolences to our esteemed Board Member and Vice President, Renee J. Ward and the family on the death of her cherished husband, Judge Robert Ward. David J. Sweet, President Dr. Susan Provenzano, Executive Director
        WARD--Robert J. You taught us so much, not only about the law and the judicial process but also about justice and compassion. Over three decades you were a loving father, mentor, and role model to each of us, and we will miss you greatly. Our deepest sympathy to Renee, Laura, Carolyn and other family members. The Law Clerks and Staff of the Hon. Robert J. Ward
        WARD--Judge Robert J. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of its long-serving Trustee and extends condolences to his wife Renee, his daughters Laura and Carolyn, and his sister Joan. We will miss his wise counsel, his kind and courtly manner, and his yearly reading of the Book of Jonah.
        WARD--Hon. Robert J. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Robert J. Ward. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Renee and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard J. Bronstein, Secy
        WARD--Hon. Robert J. A wise and gentle man who was our dear friend. His sudden loss leaves a void in our lives that will be impossible to fill. Our hearts go out to Renee, Laura and Carolyn. They will be consoled in the years to come with so many wonderful memories. Diane and Arthur Abbey
        WARD--Robert J. The judges of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York are deeply saddened by the death of our colleague, Judge Ward, and extend our sympathy to his family. Michael B. Mukasey Chief Judge
        WARD--Robert J. The Hess Mess will always be grateful for all Bob gave us. He touched our lives in so many ways, enriching us with his kindness, wisdom, sense of humor, and quiet dignity. His memory will live on. Hess Mess
        WARD--Robert J. A devoted brother, uncle and granduncle. You have served both your family and your country extraordinarily well. You were an endless source of inspiration to all of us. Hill, Sands and Strausman Families
      