
        MARKS--William M. Beloved husband of Joanne. Devoted father of Jason (Wendy), Elissa (Seth). Cherished son of Claire and Howard Marks. Dear brother of Robert. Sonin-law of Helene and Larry Kurtis. Brother-in-law of Marilyn and Michael Kurtis. Loving uncle of Heather and Nicole. Services Sunday, 11:30AM ''The Riverside'', 21 West Broad St, Mt. Vernon.
        MARKS---William ''Billy''. Pediatric Cancer Foundation notes with profound sorrow and sadness the death of Billy at age 54. Our sincere sympathy and condolences are extended to his beloved wife, Joanne Kurtis Marks, a long time friend, supporter and former Board member. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to Billy's children and family, he will be sorely missed.
        MARKS--William. Our 28 years of love and friendship have been but a fleeting moment in time. We grew up together and we shared in each other's joys and sorrows. We will always remember you and carry your spirit with us. Our love and prayers are with Joann, Jason and Elissa and family. Harvey, Judy, Jeremy and Matthew
        MARKS--William. We deeply mourn the passing of our beloved nephew and cousin Bill Marks and express our deepest sympathy to the Marks and Kurtis families. Arlene, Murray and Neil Westreich Margery and Alexandra Bobrow
        MARKS--William. The partners of JG Haft and Co Inc. mourn the loss of our dear, long time friend and partner. We shared many great years. Through thick and thin we always had fun. Our love and heartfelt sympathy to the Marks and Kurtis families. Sandy and Ken
        MARKS--William. We extend our deepest sympathy to Joanne, Jason, Elissa and family. Billy had so much vitality, a great sense of humor and enjoyed a zest for life up until the very end. We will miss our wonderful friend. The Strongin Family
        MARKS--William. The membership of Ridgeway Country club mourns the loss of our dear friend and long time member William Marks. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Peter Arest, President
        MARKS--William. A kind, caring and gentle man, whose friendship we will always cherish. Forever in our thoughts and close to our hearts. We will always love you. Barry, Jane, Robin, Ari
        MARKS--William. Billy, your smile, warmth and humor shall be missed. The world has lost a special man. The Drucker, Eichel and Marcus Families
      