
        SIMONS--Nick, suddenly on July 30, 2003. Beloved son of Marilyn and James. Dear brother of Elizabeth, Nathaniel and Audrey. Services Monday, August 4, 11 AM, at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
        SIMONS--Nicholas. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the untimely passing of Nicholas Simons beloved son of Marilyn and James Simons. We extend to Audrey, Liz, Nat and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President
        SIMONS--Nick. The entire Continuum Health Partners family mourns the untimely death of Nick Simons, beloved son of our friends and generous donors, Marilyn and Jim Simons. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to the Simons family. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Board of Trustees John Hill Chairman Development Committee Stanley Brezenoff Pres and CEO, Continuum Thomas Killip, MD Interim President and CEO Beth Israel Medical Center Richard Daines, MD President and CEO St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center
        SIMONS--Nick. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Rockefeller University extend our heartfelt sympathy to Marilyn and Jim Simons on the sudden and untimely loss of their beloved son Nick. The University community is deeply saddened by this devastating tragedy, and we send our support and love to Marilyn, Jim, Audrey, Liz and Nat. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Richard B. Fisher, Chairman of the Board Thomas P. Sakmar, Acting President Paul Nurse, President-elect The Rockefeller University
        SIMONS--Nick. The staffs of the Beth Israel Medical Center Department of Medicine and the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center Comprehensive Breast Service are deeply saddened by the death of Nick Simons, beloved son of our generous benefactors, Marilyn and Jim Simons. We extend our deepest sympathy to Marilyn, Jim and their family. Martin Feuer, MD Attending Physician Department of Medicine BIMC Alison Estabrook, MD Chief, Comprehensive Breast Service SLRHC
        SIMONS--Nick. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses profound sympathy to the family of Nick Simons. Taken from this life much too soon, our hearts reach out with compassion and understanding. May his beloved parents and family find comfort in the sweetness of memories from a life that was beautiful but much too brief. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. Herbert C. Bernard, Sec'y
        SIMONS--Nick. The entire Churchill School and Center family extends its heartfelt sympathies and condolences to Jim and Marilyn Simons on the tragic loss of their beloved son Nick. Our hearts go out to Audrey, his dear sister, and to the entire family. Emily H. Fisher, Chair of Board of Trustees Kristine Baxter, Head of School and Center
        SIMONS--Nick. The Board, staff & entire LearningSpring Elementary School community extends its deepest and heartfelt sympathies to Jim and Marilyn Simons, our devoted President and guiding light, on the sudden and tragic loss of their son, Nick. Our hearts go out to Audrey, Liz, Nat and the entire family. >>AD#
      