
        MULDOON -- Sylvia Rivera del Moral, 67, died peacefully at home on August 10, 2003. Born in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, March 17, 1936, Sylvia was the daughter of Francisco Rivera Camacho and RosaLinda del Moral de Rivera. Beloved wife of Thomas O. Muldoon, M.D. Loving mother of Brian Thomas, Sarah Catherine and John Francisco. Mother-in-law of Timothy Dillon. Cherished grandmother of Emma, Thomas and Grace. Survived also by her brother, Eduardo Rivera. She received a Bachelor of Arts and Master's Degree in social work from the University of Puerto Rico. Visitation will be held at John J. Fox Funeral Home, Larchmont, Tuesday, August 12, 2-4 and 7-9 PM. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at 10 AM on Wednesday, August 13 at St. Augustine Church, Larchmont. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to Catholic Health Care Foundation, 155 East 56th Street, NY., NY. 10022, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary Retina Center, 310 East 14th Street, NY, NY 10003 or Padre Pio Homeless Shelter, Box 55, Larchmont, New York 10538.
        MULDOON--Sylvia P. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary mourns the sudden loss of a dear friend and longtime supporter of the hospitals Auxiliary which was among her many charitable activities. Mrs. Muldoon was on the Board of Catholic Charities as well as the Board of the Kateri Residence, St. Vincent de Paul Residence, St. Teresa Nursing Home and Incarnation Children's Center. She was also active in raising funds and supplying food for the Padre Pio Homeless Shelter. We extend heartfelt condolences to her husband Dr. Thomas O. Muldoon, a Trustee and Surgeon Director of the Infirmary, and their entire family. Peter Frelinghuysen Chairman, Board of Directors Joseph B. Walsh, MD Chairman, Deptartment of Ophthalmology Joseph P. Corcoran President & CEO
        MULDOON--Sylvia P. We grieve the loss of a most loving and gracious daughter, sister, wife, mother and grandmother. Sylvia included all in her love and made everyone with whom she came in contact feel the better for it with her winning smile and welcoming hospitality. Her life exemplified true Christian charity, from which she strongly strove to improve the services of numerous nursing facilities and shelters for the forgotten. Our thoughts and prayers are with her husband Tom, her children, grandchildren, brother and cousins. Her life touched ours and we will alway be most thankful. Don and Joe
        MULDOON--Sylvia. The Continuum Health Partners family mourns the death of Sylvia Muldoon, beloved wife of our dear friend and colleague, Thomas Muldoon, M.D., Trustee and Surgeon Director of the New York Eye & Ear Infirmary. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Tom and his family. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Board of Trustees Stanley Brezenoff, President & CEO
        MULDOON--Sylvia. Four generations of the Newman family mourn the loss of a wonderful friend, an ever-gracious hostess, and a humanitarian whose commitment to others was exceptional. To Tom and his entire family, our heartfelt condolences. Bob & Seiko Newman
      