
        HORTON--Thomas R., died on August 8 in DeLand, FL. Born in 1926 in Fort Pierce, FL, to Charles M. and Ruby S. Horton, he graduated from the Bolles School in Jacksonville and immediately joined the U.S. Army, where he served as a technical sergeant in Germany during World War II. He and his wife, Marilou Deeming Horton, both graduated from Stetson University, of which he was trustee emeritus. Horton earned his Ph.D. in mathematics at the University of Florida and held several honorary degrees. After teaching for two years at Bolles, Mr. Horton spent 28 years with the IBM Corporation where, among other things, he led the teams that located the Russian sputnik and guided the first U.S. man-in-space effort, later directing IBM's largest development activity, the worldwide $5 billion System/360. After retiring from IBM he became CEO of the American Management Association and later its President Emeritus. He was the author of many books, including The CEO Paradox: The Privilege and Accountability of Leadership (AMACOM, 1992). Horton served on the boards of seven corporations, two banks, five colleges and universities, and numerous nonprofit organizations. He was advisor to many organizations, including Marquis Who's Who in America and is listed in its centennial edition, Who's Who in 20th Century America. A member of the First Baptist Church of DeLand, Mr. Horton is survived by his wife Marilou Horton of DeLand and their three daughters, Susan Polos of Katonah, NY, Jean Horton of San Rafael, CA, and Marilyn Horton of Bronxville, NY, two grandsons, and two granddaughters. He is also survived by three nieces, two nephews and many friends. A private memorial service will be held. The family requests no flowers and that any donations be made to The Thomas R. Horton Scholarship Fund at Stetson University, Office of the President, 503 N. Woodland Boulevard, DeLand, FL 32720.
        HORTON--Thomas R., PhD, The Board of Trustees and Staff of American Management Association note with sorrow the passing of Thomas R. Horton on Friday, August 8, 2003. Dr. Horton was President and CEO of AMA from 1982 until 1990 and served as CEO and Chairman until 1992. He died at his home in DeLand, FL. after a long illness. We extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to his family. He is survived by his wife Marilou, three daughters Susan Polos, Jean Horton and Marilyn Horton and four grandchildren. In lieu of flowers donations can be made to the Thomas R. Horton Scholarship Fund care of Stetson University, Office of the President, 503 North Woodland Boulevard, DeLand, FL. 32720. William K. Slate, II, Chairman Edward T. Reilly, President and CEO
      