
        SANDERS--Lesley Spring. An unforgettable woman, bright, beautiful, creative and caring. A shining light extinguished at the too young age of 54. Resident of New York City and Litchfield, Conn. Devoted and beloved wife of Steven A. Sanders. Precious mother of Geoffrey and wife, Debbie. Darling daughter of Helene and Leonard Spring. Loving sister of Meryl Mann and husband, Michael. Adored daughter-in-law of Vivian Sanders and the late Daniel Sanders. Dear niece, aunt, cousin, friend and respected colleague. Role model for all. A woman of great integrity, energy and love who blessed us with her presence for too short a time. Service Friday, August 29th, 11 AM, at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue at 91st Street. Contributions in Lesley's memory may be made to the Helene Spring Library at East End Temple, 245 East 17 Street, NY, NY 10010.
        SANDERS -- Lesley Spring. Our precious daughter has left us. Our hearts are broken. We have been weakened losing you. But strengthened by so many beautiful memories that will last forever. No day will go by without thoughts of you. We were blessed with the special joys and pride you brought to our lives. We will always love you and all you meant to us. Mom and Dad
        SANDERS--Lesley. The East End Temple family is deeply saddened by the loss of our life-long member, daughter of two past Temple presidents, Helene and Leonard Spring. We extend deepest sympathy to her husband, Steven, her son Geoffrey (Deborah) and to the entire family. Edna Rosen, President Rabbi David Adelson
        SANDERS -- Lesley Spring. Les, your life was tragically cut short. Your valiant fight amazed us and filled us with awe. You were a loving sister and devoted sister-in-law. We will always miss you very much, but we know you are at peace. Meryl and Michael
        SANDERS -- Lesley Spring. We will never forget all of the fun times we've shared together with you and our family. The fond memories we have of you and your wise and loving nature will live on in our hearts forever. Betsy, Danny and Adam
        SANDERS -- Lesley Spring. The staff of Custom Communities, Inc., mourns the loss of our dynamic President and Founder. She was unique, an inspiration and friend to each of us. We will never forget her exceptional leadership.
        SANDERS--Leslie. It is with great sadness that we mourn the loss of Leslie. Our hearts are broken for our dear friends Meryl and Michael Mann, their children, Betsy, Danny and Adam, Leslie's parents Helene and Leonard Spring, and her husband Steven and her children, Geoffrey and Debbie. May your wonderful memories sustain you through this difficult time. Levkoff & Kwiat Families
      