
        HAWKINS--Howard R. Global Satellite Communications Pioneer, Dies at 87. Howard R. Hawkins, a leader in the development of the international satellite communications industry, died yesterday of respiratory failure in Greenwich Hospital, Greenwich, CT. Mr. Hawkins was 87. Mr. Hawkins' six decade career in global telecommunications included over 30 years with RCA Corporation, where he served as Executive Vice President and Director. He was responsible for the establishment of RCA's satellite communications network, including the first communications satellite launched by private industry and the opening of satellite communications with China. During WW II he served as an FBI Special Agent in charge of a counter-espionage radio station that communicated with German Intelligence from 1943 until 1945. This covert operation was memorialized in the 1945 film ''The House on 92nd Street'' for which Mr. Hawkins served as technical advisor. From 1980-2000, Mr. Hawkins acted as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of American TransCom, a communications and business ventures consulting firm in Greenwich, CT. He also served as Trustee of twelve Merrill Lynch mutual investment companies and Chairman of Continental Steel Corporation from 1982 to 1985. Mr. Hawkins was raised on a 600-acre family farm in Pulaski County, Indiana, which he managed until 2002. A graduate of Indiana University with a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Doctor of Jurisprudence with distinction, Mr. Hawkins was awarded a Distinguished Alumni Service Award from Indiana University in 1969 and inducted into the Indiana University Academy of Law Alumni Fellows in 1994. A former research fellow at Harvard University Program on Information Resources Policy, Mr. Hawkins was a member of the bars of the United States Supreme Court, the State of New York and the Federal Communications Commission. Mr. Hawkins is survived by his wife, Helen Foley Hawkins, his children Katherine A. Hawkins, Howard R. Hawkins Jr, Rosemary Hawkins and Suzanne E. Hawkins, and his grandchildren Eric Hawkins, Brian Hawkins, Terence Gibbons and Jeffrey Gibbons. Visiting hours will be August 10, 2003 from 4PM to 7PM at the Gallagher Funeral Home, 31 Arch Street, Greenwich, CT. The funeral will be held at St. Michael's Church, 469 North Street, Greenwich, CT on August 11, 2003 at 10 AM. Contributions in his memory may be made to Maryknoll, Ossining, New York 10545.
      