
        LAWSON--H.E. Bartholomew J. Age 54, on July 31, 2003. Family, friends and colleagues mourn the loss of a public servant, executive and healthcare advocate who died in Grenada while serving as Ambassador at Large to the United States Grenadian Mission to the United Nations. Mr. Lawson was President and member of the Board of Managers of CarePlus Health Plan, a community-based health service plan serving New York families and children. He was a member of the Board of the Brazelton Foundation, which fosters positive relationships between parents, professionals, communities and children. He was also President and Executive Director of the Greater New York Healthcare Facilities Association. Mr. Lawson served on the Transition teams of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani (1993) and Governor George E. Pataki (1994), and was appointed to serve on the Governor's Medicaid Task Force. He was a member of the University Club, the Friars Club of New York and the Nyack Field Club. He was a resident of Manhattan and Piermont, New York, and a graduate of New York University. He leaves behind his beloved wife Karen L. Lawson and three children, Bartholomew John (BJ), Mackenzie John and Katia Mary Grace. He was the loving brother of Debbie Holloway, Beth Lawson Kalt, Catherine Muhly and Maria Sheard, Sarah Lawson and Bernard Lawson. He will be missed by his many friends, colleagues and family members, both here and abroad. Services will be held on Tuesday, August 5, 2003, 10:30 AM, at The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, NY. Donations may be made to: Bartholomew J. Lawson Foundation for Children, c/o Karen Lawson, 360 West 31st St., 5th Floor, NY, NY 10001. For information, contact Jennifer Thermansen or Emily Therway at 212563-5570, ext. 813 or 247.
        LAWSON--Bartholomew J. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Bartholomew J. Lawson. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Tuesday, August 5, at 10:30 AM, at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director >>AD#
      