
        RAUSNITZ--Walter, Most beloved husband of Vera, caring brother of Egon and Paul, devoted father of Gerry and Sarita, and Susan and Peter Strauss. Loving grandfather of David, Daniela and Jonathan and patriarch of a loving extended family. Services Sunday, 10:30AM, Park East Synagogue, 68th Street between Lexington and Third Avenues. For information ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel'' 212-769-4400.
        RAUSNITZ -- Walter. The Hampton Synagogue mourns with great sorrow the passing of our distinguished Benefactor, beloved husband of Vera; devoted father of our dedicated officer, trustee and synagogue founders, Gerry and Sarita, and Susi and Peter; adored grandfather of Jonathan, David and Daniela, and cherished brother of Egon & Lee, Paul and Steven. To them and to the entire family, we express our profound and deepest sympathy. His memory will always be a source of blessing and inspiration. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Pres. Seymour G. Siegel, Treas.
        RAUSNITZ -- Walter. Park East Synagogue mourns the guiding light of the Rausnitz Family, Walter Rausnitz, devoted member, beloved husband of Vera; father of Gerald and Sarita Rausnitz, Susan and Peter Strauss; brother of Egon and Lee, and Paul, grandfather of David, Daniela and Jonathan, all closely affiliated with our congregation. Walter upheld and transmitted the Torah values of his parents. Funeral services Park East Synagogue, 164 East 68 Street, New York, Sunday, August 24, 10:30 A.M. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        RAUSNITZ -- Walter. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School mourns the death of our esteemed benefactor Walter Rausnitz, who together with his wife Vera established a scholarship fund for the advancement of Jewish education. Sincere condolences to the bereaved family.
        RAUSNITZ--Walter. To our beloved Rausnitz family, Walter's passing leaves a deep void in our lives. We are with you at this heart wrenching time. With all our love, Toby, Marc, Sloane, Brendan
      