
        McKEAN--Elizabeth L., 74, of New York on August 1, 2003 at New-York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. Though slight in stature, Bette McKean was large in courage, independence and heart. Born in Dixon City, PA. on June 10, 1929, Bette grew up during the Depression and World War II. After graduating from Hunter College, she moved into an apartment on East 37th Street with several girlfriends. Bette became a successful and well-paid executive assistant in Lennen and Knewell, but did not feel her worklife was satisfying. So, during Mayor John Lindsay's administration, when she read in the newspaper that the city needed teachers, she applied for a job and became a kindergarten teacher in the South Bronx for many years. Bette eventually moved to Tudor City, where she lived for more than three decades. There she met and in 1974, married John F. McKean, a retiree and leader in the tenants movement. During the 1980s, John and Bette led the successful fight to prevent Harry Helmsley from erecting high-rises on the Tudor City parks including one famous episode where they went out with bullhorns at 7 A.M. to rouse their neighbors and stop the bulldozers. After John died in 1993, Bette continued to live in their apartment overlooking the parks. Though her mobility was limited in recent years, she never lost her sharp eye for deceit nor her keen sense of humor. She is survived by her sister-in-law, Cornelia Bowe of Summit, NJ; her niece, great niece, and great-great niece Amy, Marisa and Giana Ross, all of NY; great niece Julia Ross of Suffern, NY; great nephew, Chris Harris of FL; stepdaughters Sandy McKean Ogden and Susan McKean Lewallen of CA, and step grandchildren Charles and David Ogden and Julie and Coe Gibbs, all of CA and WA. Memorial service will be at the Church of the Covenant, 310 East 42nd Street at 2 P.M. on Saturday, August 16th. Interment beside her husband at Arlington National Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, friends and relatives may send memorial contributions to their favorite charities.
      