
        MILLER--Pearl C. Beloved daughter of the late Charles Cohn and Bella Cohen Cohn, adored sister of Seymour Cohn and the late Mildred Cohn, Maurice Cohn, Irene Colvin and Sylvan Lawrence, devoted and loyal wife of the late Henry Miller, and cherished aunt and great-aunt to each and every member of the Cohen and Cembalest families. Born on October 20, 1906 in New York City, the youngest daughter in a large and accomplished family, Pearl devoted herself to her studies, eventually becoming a teacher in the New York City Public School System. As a young girl, Pearl began her life-long involvement with Tranquillity Camp. As the ideal embodiment of the Cohen family credo ''Noblesse Oblige,'' Pearl soon became the indispensable right-hand of her uncle, the late Elias A. Cohen, one of the truly great men of his time, who founded Tranquillity Camp in 1919. After his sudden passing in July of 1952, Pearl shouldered the tremendous responsiblity of keeping the Camp going. For well over 50 years, Pearl selflessly and tirelessly devoted every minute of every day to her family, and to each of the children whose character was so quietly and subtlely molded by her example. Despite her towering intellect and photographic memory, Pearl, like so many members of the Cohen family before her, never talked down to anyone. To us she was a unique individual, a giant. When flattered by anyone, she would characteristically brush it off with a small wave of her hand, saying ''It's nothing. I just do what I do.'' She made it all seem so simple. Services will be held on Sunday, August 31, 2003, 11AM at Schwartz Brothers - Jeffer Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Tranquillity Camp, Inc., 170 Tranquillity Rd., Earlton, NY 12058, would be appreciated.
        MILLER--Pearl C. The Officers, Board of Directors, Staff and all the children of Tranquillity Camp are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved President, Pearl C. Miller. From her first days there as a child some ninety years ago through all the ensuing decades as the leader, conscience, soul and spirit of Tranquillity, to all who knew her, from the youngest camper to the oldest Alumni, she was simply ''Pearl.'' However, there was nothing simple about this truly remarkable individual. For many years, Pearl taught in the NYC Public School system and assisted her uncle, the late Elias A. Cohen, who founded Tranquillity Camp in 1919. After his sudden passing in July, 1952, with nothing much more than the credo ''Noblesse Oblige'' as their guide, an unwavering and totally dedicated Pearl, together with her late husband, her beloved Henry, at her side, her family and other devoted Tranquillity - ites, worked unceasingly to keep the little camp going. They overcame countless obstacles; their efforts paid off as the little camp survived and grew. But the original ideals on which Tranquillity was based have never changed. As the years turned into decades and the decades into generations, the number of people whose characters and lives were indelibly enriched by the timeless lessons passed on by Pearl at Tranquillity became legion. Following Pearl's example, many returned and gave of themselves to help Camp. Although tens of thousands of children were campers over the years, Pearl got to know each one as an individual. To the amazement of so many campers who asked Pearl if she remembered them, her reply invariably included a family history and a story or two about a parent, grandparent, great-grandparent or other relative who came to Camp. Like many of the great people who will be remembered over the ages, Pearl's vision was on a scale almost too vast to comprehend; but she never lost sight of where she was. No detail was ever too small to be overlooked--and she saw to all of them. Everyone who knew Pearl will carry in their heart, to be treasured for all time, the memory of a shared special moment. None of us will ever forget the Barn story, walks through the White House garden, hearing the story of Gilda Van Gelder or Pearl's Friday night message after services. As a rule, she preferred praise to criticism. To inspire a single camper, she would instead talk to a group of children, sometimes with the admonishment, ''Don't be a Schlemiel.'' Pearl was often referred to as ''the First Lady of Tranquillity.'' To honor this great woman, we need only follow her instruction to ''carry on.'' Pearl, we pledge to do just that, year after year after year. While you will always be missed, you will never leave us, for you will remain in our minds and in our hearts forever. Services will be held on Sunday, August 31, 2003, 11 AM, at Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd, Forest Hills, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Tranquillity Camp, Inc, 170 Tranquillity Rd, Earlton, NY 12058, would be appreciated.
        MILLER--Pearl C. Throughout one's journey through life, you come upon certain people that you can never forget. Pearl C. Miller has been a guiding light, mentor, surrogate parent when needed and a friend. With her wisdom, guidance, kindness and generosity, she played a major role in our lives. We will never forget and always remember the countless times we called upon her to help us through the many challenges we faced. While growing up on Tranquillity Farm, Pearl made us members of the Tranquillity family. Pearl C. Miller will always remain in our hearts and in our minds. We will never forget and pledge to carry on in a way that would make her proud of who we have become. With Love Always, Allyson Pettit Benjamin and Justin Pettit
        MILLER--Pearl C. The Tranquillity Alumni mourns the passing, and celebrates the life of our Pearl, a rock and a profound influence on children and adults for nearly a century. Pearl taught generations of children the lessons of Tranquillity Camp as originally articulated by her beloved Uncle and our founder, Elias A. Cohen. We were taught to be good people, good Americans and to share our good fortunes in the spirit of Noblesse Oblige. Together with husband Henry, she devoted her life to nourishing the lives of tens of thousands of people. In tribute to her life we pledge to keep her dream alive. Our sympathies to the Cohen family, and to Pearl's extended family throughout the world. The Tranquillity Alumni
        MILLER--Pearl C. The officers and directors of the Elias A. Cohen Foundation, Inc, mourn the passing of President Emeritus Pearl C. Miller, who served so ably as President for over twenty years. In demeanor and action, Pearl exemplified the character, spirit and determination that were the hallmark of her late uncle, Elias A. Cohen. She has fovever set the standard that the rest of us and our descendants will need to strive for. Like a beacon, Pearl brought us all together, and with her gentleness and consideration always evident, proved that unity was the better path. Although she will no longer grace the head of the table, her presence will be felt by each one of us for all time.
        MILLER--Pearl C. To the rest of the world you were Pearl. To all of the cousins of my generation, you were ''Aunt Petey.'' We knew there was no choice, so we shared you with all the children of Tranquillity. Through all the years, you had enough love for all of us. There must be a bright, new star in the heavens. There is no need to look. You stayed on to help us, never thinking of yourself; we will never forget. You are now with your beloved Henry. I will feel you in my heart--always. Your Loving Nephew, Richard Lawrence
        MILLER--Pearl C. To my older sister Pearl, my ''Petey.'' Throughout all the years, we have been like two peas in a pod, different yet the same. A part of me has been suddenly taken away. I will miss you always. Rest in eternal tranquillity. Your Loving Brother, Seymour
        MILLER--Pearl C. The officers and directors of the Charles Cohn Foundation mourn the passing of Pearl C. Miller, adored sister of our President Seymour Cohn.
      