
        VARNEDOE--Kirk. It is with the greatest saddness that the Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the untimely death of their dear friend and former colleague, Kirk Varnedoe, who was for many years the Museum's Chief Curator in the Department of Painting and Sculpture. Kirk leaves and extraordinary legacy, for he was a man of many talents--a brilliant curator, writer, teacher, lecturer, scholar, and mentor to younger colleagues during his 15year association with MoMA. An astute historian of the Museum's collection and of modern and contemporary art, he negotiated crucial acquisitions and organized landmark exhibitions. His deep friendships with artists greatly benefited the Museum in myriad ways. Some of these friendships developed out of the artist-organized exhibitions, ''Artist's Choice,'' which Kirk created and directed. We extend our most heartfelt sympathy to his wife Elyn Zimmerman, to his brothers Samuel and Gordon Varnedoe, and to his sister Comer Meadows. David Rockefeller Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art
        VARNEDOE--Kirk. We are so saddened by the news of Kirk's death. His loss creates a great void in our lives as we shared a similar passion for art, people, and for The Museum of Modern Art. We first got to know Kirk in 1986 when we were living in Austria and Kirk was organizing MoMA's exhibition, ''Vienna 1900.'' His grace, diplomacy, and brilliance in the complicated loan negotiations were matched by his great knowledge of this magnificent period in art history. We deeply enjoyed his friendship, and admired his great talents as an art historian, always learning and seeing things in a new way. He lived his life to the fullest, sharing it with his beloved wife, Elyn Zimmerman. As he bravely met the challenges of his illness, he never ceased writing and lecturing. We warmly remember his wry sense of humor and special smile. Our thoughts are with Elyn and Kirk's brothers Samuel and Gordon and his sister, Comer Meadows. Jo Carole and Ronald Lauder
        VARNEDOE--Kirk. The International Council of the Museum of Modern Art is deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Kirk Varnedoe. Kirk was a cherished friend who generously shared his extraordinary knowledge, his inspired passion for art, and his incredible gift for life with people around the world. He will be sorely missed. We extend our profound sympathy to his wife Elyn Zimmerman, his brothers Samuel and Gordon Varnedoe, and his sister Comer Meadows. Sir Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        VARNEDOE--Kirk. Was a dear friend, an inspiring colleague, and a true force of the art world. With his unerring eye for art, his deft ear for knowledge, his swift tongue for language, and his handsome contenance for us all to enjoy, he truly made the world a better place to live. We will miss him always, but are comforted by the myriad ways he lives on and in the profound ways he has affected us. Our hearts go out especially to his wife Elyn Zimmerman, his brothers Samuel and Gordon and his sister Comer Meadows. Agnes Gund/Daniel Shapiro
        VARNEDOE--Kirk. As one of many who had the privilege of studying with him at the Institute of Fine Arts, and of attending his recent Mellon Lectures at The National Gallery of Art, I celebrate Kirk Varnedoe's vigorous, generous and searing intellect which consistently sped to the core of artists from Rodin to Koons. This will be his life enhancing legacy. Sandra Elisabeth Canning
        VARNEDOE -- Kirk. Dear treasured friend, your magnificence in every aspect of life will be with us forever. Our hearts embrace Elyn with love. Emily and Jerry Spiegel
      