
        HIRSCHEN--Jerrold I. The Board, Staff and Clients of the Women's Prison Association and Home (WPA) are deeply saddened by the death of Jerry Hirschen. Jerry was pivotal in the development of the Sarah Powell Huntington House, WPA's residential facility for women reuniting with their children, now celebrating its tenth anniversary. He was always available to help us and so many others who sought to make the world a better place. Our deepest sympathy goes to Carole and Jill, and to the many people who loved him. Valerie S. Mason, President of the Board Ann L. Jacobs, Executive Director
        HIRSCHEN--Jerrold I. The Trustees, Officers and Staff of Phipps Houses sadly mourn the untimely passing of our long time counselor, advisor and friend Jerry Hirschen. We will miss his encyclopedic knowledge of housing law and his subtle and sensible guidance of so many of our projects. Our deepest sympathy to his loving wife Carole, beloved daughter Jill, mother Miriam and law partner Richard Singer. Ronay Menschel, Chair Adam Weinstein, President Robert Pincus General Counsel
        HIRSCHEN--Jerrold I. The Board of Directors and staff of New York Foundation For Senior Citizens deeply mourn the loss of our cherished colleague and friend, Jerry Hirschen, and extend our sympathies to his beloved wife Carole, daughter Jill and mother Miriam and his law partner Richard Singer. His guidance and wisdom have greatly contributed to the Foundation's legacy of creating and providing the highest quality housing and services for older New Yorkers. He will be missed by each of us.
        HIRSCHEN--Jerrold I. The New York Housing Conference and the Settlement Housing Fund are saddened by the loss of a great colleague and longterm member of NYHC, Jerrold I. Hirschen, a prominent attorney and affordable housing expert and advocate. Our thoughts are with his wife Carole Slater, his daughter Jill, and his mother Miriam. We join in their sorrow. Clara Fox, John Kelly, Carol Lamberg, Susan Cole, and Lee Warshavsky
        HIRSCHEN--Jerrold I. The firm of Hirschen & Singer mourns the death of founding partner, Jerry Hirschen. His loss is deeply felt in both the legal and affordable housing communities, but we celebrate an exemplary life. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Carole Slater, his daughter, Jill, and mother, Miriam. Richard C. Singer, Marie Vrankovic, Catherine Petrillo and Adrian Pope
        HIRSCHEN--Jerrold I. The Kefalidis family and associates mourn the sudden passing of our trusted counsel and friend, Jerry Hirschen. We share the loss with his cherished wife Carole, adored daughter Jill and beloved mother Miriam. Laurie D. Kefalidis Joanna Golden Grant R. Ruthizer
        HIRSCHEN--Jerrold I. The Berkeley Carroll School community mourns Life Trustee Jerry Hirschen, an exemplary volunteer, passionate advocate for education, loving husband and parent of Jill, Class of 1987. Rachel McPherson, Board President Peter J. Kountz, Ph.D, Head of School
      