
        MILLHISER -- Eleanor, McGue, 83, wife, mother and volunteer died August 7, 2003 at Memorial Regional Medical Center, Richmond, VA. Mrs. Millhiser born in Cleveland, Ohio was the daughter of Alfred J. McGue of Cleveland, Ohio and Rosina Steinbrecher McGue of Richmond and the sister of Jean Virginia McGue and the late Mary Ann Brockenbrough and Patricia Walsh. At age 9, Mrs. Millhiser moved to Richmond, she attended Cathedral High School in Richmond and was graduated in 1941 from Trinity College in Washington D.C. and enjoyed being one of Trinity's major supporters. In 1942, she married Ross R. Millhiser and played the key supporting role for him throughout his career at Philip Morris. Mrs. Millhiser was a communicant of St. Paul's Roman Catholic Church, Sacred Heart Cathedral and St. Bridget's Church all in Richmond, VA and Holy Cross Church in Rumson, NJ. She was a corresponding secretary of the Holy Cross School PTA. Mrs. Millhiser's other volunteer roles included being the corresponding secretary, vice president and executive board member of the Auxiliary for St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York City. She also served as the president of the Richmond, VA and New Jersey Shore Alumni Chapters for Trinity College. Mrs. Millhiser was a coordinator for Drivers for FISH (For I Shall Help) in Monmouth County, NJ, a volunteer for Lunch Break in Red Bank, NJ and a member of the English Speaking Union and the New Jersey Historical Society. Mostly Mrs. Millhiser was a loving wife, mother, sister and friend, who dedicated herself to helping her husband, raising her four children at her beloved seaside former home ''Dawnmere'' in Rumson, NJ. Mrs. Millhiser delighted particularly in its gardens and its water views. Mrs. Millhiser was also known for her innate sense of style and flair-always looking terrific! Mrs. Millhiser will be missed by her husband, Ross; sister, Jean and four children, Ross R. Millhiser Jr. and Timothy McG. Millhiser both of New York City and Thomas McN. Millhiser and Mary McGue Millhiser both of Richmond, VA, as well as, her eight grandchildren, Ross R. Millhiser IV, Liam R. Millhiser, Nicholas A. Millhiser and Lillian W. Millhiser all of New York City, Ian R. Millhiser of Durham, NC and Neal McG. Millhiser, James McN. Millhiser and Hugh Stuart Millhiser Halsey all of Richmond. A funeral mass will be held Monday, August 11, 10:30a.m. at St. Paul's Roman Catholic Church, 909 Rennie Ave., corner of Chamberlayne and Rennie. Interment will be private. A reception for all will be held at the residence at 1PM. In lieu of flowers memorial contributions may be made to the MCV Foundation, P.O. Box 980234, Richmond, VA 23298, Parker Clinic Riverview Medical Center, 1 Riverview Plaza, Red Bank, NJ 07701, St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center, Development Office, Suite 6-B, 130 West 12th St, NY, NY 10011. Information Bliley Funeral Homes' Augusta Chapel.
      