
        SILVERMAN--Herbert R. My deepest condolences to my children, Debbie Silverman and Robin and Harry Keates on the loss of their adored grandfather, Herbert R. Silverman. Deepest sympathies to Henry Silverman and Karen Mayers and their families. Heartfelt words of comfort to my cherished grandchildren, Emma and Noah Silverman Keates on the absence in their lives of a special great-grandfather. I will always remember Herb as the elegant, cultured and honorable man that he was. Susan H. Silverman
        SILVERMAN--Herbert R. August 21, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Roslyn and the late Nadia Silverman. Devoted father of Karen Mayers and Henry R. Silverman. Cherished grandfather of Robin, Deborah, Cassie, Peter and Leslie. Loving brother of Saul S. Silverman. He was the CEO of James Talcott, Inc. Funeral private.
        SILVERMAN--Herbert R. The entire New York University community deeply mourns the death of Herbert R. Silverman, esteemed alumnus; life trustee and honorary retired vice chairman of the NYU Board of Trustees, and life trustee of its Medical Center. A 1932 graduate of the School of Commerce, he achieved national eminence in commercial finance, philanthropy, and education. He served his alma mater with great distinction as professor of finance in the College of Business and Public Administration, president of the Commerce Alumni Association, president of the NYU Alumni Federation, chairman of the Albert Gallatin Associates, and founder and first president of the NYU Club. His leadership was instrumental during the rise of the university from a regional school to a residential research and teaching institution of international distinction. Highly esteemed by men and women in the business and philanthropic communities, he led the University as chairman of its early fundraising campaigns. In recognition of his many achievements and contributions, an NYU scholarship is named in his honor. For his decades of extraordinary service to the University, he received the Alumni Meritorious Service Medal, the Madden Award of the School of Commerce, and the Albert Gallatin Medal. Our community will cherish the memory of this great man and his magnificent legacy of achievement. We express our profound and deepest sympathy to his son and our trustee, Henry, and the entire family. John Sexton, President, NYU Martin Lipton Chair, NYU Board of Trustees
        SILVERMAN--Herbert R. The Board of Directors, Management and Staff of the Hampshire House wish to express our deep sorrow upon the loss of our beloved neighbor and former Chairman of the Board, Herbert R. Silverman. His knowledge, wisdom, kindness and grace will be deeply missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Board of Directors Hampshire House 150 Central Park South, Inc.
        SILVERMAN -- Herbert R. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York, records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Herbert R. Silverman. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. Herbert C. Bernard, Sec'y
      