
        CARMEL--Miriam Ruth. On August 5, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Devoted mother of Kenneth, Frankliln and the late Robert and mother-in-law of Brenda and Judith. Cherished grandmother of Candace and Michael Barasch; Bradley; Alyssa; Jordana and Robert Getreu; and great-grandmother of Robert Norman and Julia Claire Barasch; Miranda Paige and Rachael Morgan Getreu. Services Thursday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers donations in her memory may be made to The Hebrew Home for the Aged, Riverdale, NY.
        CARMEL--Miriam. We deeply regret the passing of this loving mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. We know the strong effect that this loss will have upon the extended families of her children and grandchildren. Miriam was the loved mother of Kenny Carmel, Franklin Carmel, and Robert Carmel. She was a warm and giving person who enjoyed many years of happiness. At the time of her passing Miriam was just short of 93 years old. All of us at GVA Williams extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Carmel family: Kenny and his wife, Brenda, their children, Jordana and Alyssa, and Miranda and Rachael, the children of Jordana and her husband, Rob Getreu. This fruitful life for Miriam was further enhanced by an additional set of grandchildren, Bradley Carmel and Candace Carmel, the children of Robert and Judy Carmel, and of great-grandchildren, the children of Candace and her husband Michael Barasch. Miriam had to be very happy with the success of her parenting and the way her children successfully and happily experienced life. This was a gift from them to her, just as the way they grew up was a gift from her to them. All of us at GVA Williams extend deepest sympathies to the Carmel family. GVA Williams
        CARMEL -- Miriam. The Board of Directors, Residents and Staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with deep sorrow the death of Miriam Carmel, beloved mother of our dear friends Kenneth, Franklin and the late Robert Carmel. For over nine years, Miriam graced the Hebrew Home with her warmth, style and great wit. We will miss her charm and kindness and convey our condolences to her children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. Milton A. Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman Daniel Reingold, Exec. VP
      