
        LAWSON--H.E. Bartholomew J. Age 54, on July 31, 2003. Family, friends and colleagues mourn the loss of a public servant, executive and healthcare advocate who died in Grenada while serving as Ambassador at Large to the United States Grenadian Mission to the United Nations. Mr. Lawson was President and member of the Board of Managers of CarePlus Health Plan, a community-based health service plan serving New York families and children. He was a member of the Board of the Brazelton Foundation, which fosters positive relationships between parents, professionals, communities and children. He was also President and Executive Director of the Greater New York Healthcare Facilities Association. Mr. Lawson served on the Transition teams of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani (1993) and Governor George E. Pataki (1994), and was appointed to serve on the Governor's Medicaid Task Force. He was a member of the University Club, the Friars Club of New York and the Nyack Field Club. He was a resident of Manhattan and Piermont, New York, and a graduate of New York University. He leaves behind his beloved wife Karen L. Lawson and three children, Bartholomew John (BJ), Mackenzie John and Katia Mary Grace. He was the loving brother of Debbie Holloway, Beth Lawson Kalt, Catherine Muhly and Maria Sheard, Sarah Lawson and Bernard Lawson. He will be missed by his many friends, colleagues and family members, both here and abroad. Services will be held on Tuesday, August 5, 2003, 10:30 AM, at The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, NY. Donations may be made to: Bartholomew J. Lawson Foundation for Children, c/o Karen Lawson, 360 West 31st St., 5th Floor, NY, NY 10001. For information, contact Jennifer Thermansen or Emily Therway at 212563-5570, ext. 813 or 247.
        LAWSON--Bartholomew J. On behalf of the 240,000 members of 1199 SEIU we mourn the sudden loss of our colleague Bartholomew J. Lawson. Bart played many critical roles in New York's healthcare community. For the last 26 years he served as President and Executive Director of the Greater New York Health Care Facilities Association, New York's largest independent organization of long term care facilities. He was the first Chairman of the Board of the 1199 SEIU-Greater New York Nursing Home Industry Welfare, Pension, Skill and Productivity Funds and founded the 90,000 member Care Plus Health Plan, a health maintenance organization which includes New York's Medicaid and Child Health Plus Programs. In 2002 he was appointed the United States Ambassador at Large to Grenada. Bart was a highly skilled negotiator and strategist who, through his work with a wide variety of organizations, dedicated his life to the delivery of cost effective quality health care to all New Yorkers. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Karen, their three children and all of his family and friends. He will be missed. Dennis Rivera, President George Gresham Secretary-Treasurer Jay Sackman Executive Vice President 1199 SEIU, New York's Health & Human Service Union
        LAWSON--Bartholomew J. The Southern New York Association and New York Health Care Alliance membership and staff extend their sympathy to the family and friends of Bartholomew J. Lawson on his untimely passing. His colleagues in long term care will miss the many contributions he has made over the years. Neil J. Heyman, President SNYA Kenneth M. Brown, President NYHCA >>AD#
      