
        LEVBARG--Ann-Louise. Beloved mother of Diane Levbarg Klein. Grandmother of Michele Beth Levbarg Klein, mother-in-law of Martin I. Klein. Died after a long illness at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale. Born in Utica, N.Y., Ann's vivacious personality and zest for life will be remembered by all who were fortunate to have known and loved her. Funeral services Wednesday, 10AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Interment to follow at Sharon Gardens. In lieu of flowers the family would appreciate contributions to a fund for the renovation of the emergency room at Mount Sinai Medical Center or Central Synagogue.
        LEVBARG--Ann L. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member Ann L. Levbarg. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President
        LEVBARG -- Ann - Louise. Mom, I love you. Diane
        LEVBARG -- Ann - Louise. Wonderful sister of Eleanor and Alvin Donnenfeld, much loved ''Aunt Ann'' of Marc, Gail and Penny Donnenfeld, and friend to many. She lived her life with great spirit, always proud of her beautiful daughter Diane who took her through her last years with generosity and devotion. She had spunk and sparkle and wherever she went she was noted and remembered. She was both verbal and witty, loved to gossip, noticed everything and everyone and was kind, giving, and considerate of others. Her standards were high and she inspired those she loved to maintain them. She had a natural elegance, always perfectly dressed with every hair in place up to the very end. She will be missed and always remembered with love.
        LEVBARG--Ann-Louise. Our Aunt Ann was very special to us because of her genuine love and interest in everything we did. As her own world grew smaller she took pleasure in hearing all about us, and urged us on with great enthusiasm. We all loved her and will cherish our memories of her as an example of a life well lived. Marc, Cathy, Alex, Jake Gail, Paul, Beatrix & Penny
        LEVBARG--Ann-Louise. The purity of Ann and Nornie's sisterly caring for and devotion to one another recalls to our minds the biblical paragons of loving friendship-David and Jonathan. Our sincere condolences to Diane and her family and to our dear friends, Nornie and Al and their wonderful children. Audrey, Harvey, Eric and Mark Feuerstein
        LEVBARG -- Ann - Louise. Thank you for being such a loving friend to our family. We cherish your incomparable and original spirit. Your affection, humor and insights made being with you an essential part of our lives. We will miss you. Marvin, Julie and Mark Fenster
        LEVBARG--Ann-Louise. We mourn the loss of Ann Levbarg. She was always part of our lives. She will be in our hearts forever. We share our grief with her beloved sister, Eleanor Donnenfeld and her husband, Dr. Alvin Donnenfeld, as well as their family. Margot and Mason Adams.
        LEVBARG--Ann-Louise. You were a very important and vital part of our lives. We shall miss you. Love, Adrienne, David, Linda and Diane Karlin
      