
        WEINBERGER--Howard A. Dr. A well known pioneering surgeon, died at Memorial Sloan Kettering Hospital on September 7. He graduated Summa Cum Laude and Phi Beta Kappa in 1936 from the Johns Hopkins University. His medical degree was awarded by the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in 1940. During WWII he volunteered to serve in the ETO and participated in the allied D-Day landings in Algeria on November 8, 1942. After the war he continued his surgical work at Lenox Hill Hospital. In the course of his 50 year career as an attending surgeon there, he introduced the newest techniques in many areas. Dr. Weinberger was respected by his peers and patients for his dedication to the care of the surgically ill. One of his greatest rewards came from his contact with residents whose surgical training he had been instrumental in molding and whose characters he helped build by example. He was a long-time member of prestigious societies. He published many surgical papers and lectured specialty organizations in America, Europe and Japan. Dr. Weinberger lived in New York City, and maintained a residence in Bedford, NY. His first wife (nee Muriel Heller) died in 1971. He is survived by his wife of 29 years, Peggy F. Weinberger. His daughter Olivia, his son James (Deborah), their sons Samuel and Jacob and his brothers Arthur and Lester. Survivors also include stepchildren Joan Twigg and Thomas Foster; and three stepgrandchildren. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., on Wednesday, September 10, from 7-9PM. Funeral services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, Thursday, September 11, at 11:30 AM. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made in his name to Lenox Hill Hospital, or a charity of your choice.
        WEINBERGER -- Howard, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and the Department of Surgery of Lenox Hill Hospital express their profound sorrow at the passing of Howard A. Weinberger, M.D., a distinguished surgeon on our staff for over 59 years. Dr. Weinberger was a devoted friend and an exceptional and dedicated physician who was greatly admired by his patients and colleagues. The entire hospital family honors the memory of this extraordinary physician who truly exemplified the highest standards of his profession. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Peggy, a longtime member of our auxiliary and to his family. William O. Hiltz, Chairman, Board of Trustees Gladys George, President and CEO James J. Richter, M.D., Ph.D., President, Medical Board Valavanur A. Subramanian, M.D., Chairman, Department of Surgery
        WEINBERGER--Dr. Howard. Uncle Howard, so hard to say goodbye to a dear friend, father figure and all around great guy--always there for our family throughout all the good and bad times. You will always be remembered and loved by us all. We extend our condolences to his dear wife Peggy, daughter Livy, son Jimmy, and the entire Weinberger family. Kathy, Sam, Lisa and Andrew Weinberg Marjorie, Bob, David and Lauren Emden
        WEINBERGER--Howard A. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member Howard A. Weinberger. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memories bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. Herbert C. Bernard, Sec'y.
      