
        SHEERIN -- Maggie. Began her final and most highly anticipated journey on Friday, September 12, 2003. Born in Texas, on September 22, 1940, she attended school in Temple and resided in San Antonio for many years where she married (the late) Bobby Sheerin. She was a self-described spiritualist and kept an open mind, eager to explore everything new. As an avid traveler and true adventuress, her vast and varied interests led her to the far corners of this world and most especially to antiquity's sacred and mystical sites. At home, she was an inveterate volunteer and philanthropist closely associated with the Cancer Therapy and Research Center, the Cancer Center Cabinet, the Winston School of San Antonio, the Rock Art Foundation, the Mind Science Foundation and a diverse mix of other notfor-profit organizations. She also served as a director of local business enterprises and operated her own business, ''Magties.'' Her contributions to her community were recognized with a number of prestigious awards, and she found immense joy in the simple pleasures of photography, reading, collecting, live theater, fine art, entertaining, playing Backgammon, Bridge and Canasta, meeting new people and forming new friendships. The regret of those she leaves behind is tempered by the wonderment of her adventure. They include son and daughter-in-law Jack and Traci Sheerin, son Jimmy Sheerin, daughter and son-in-law Cynthia and Andy Berry, granddaughter Ellie Berry, cousins Nancy Bitting and her daughter Lesley, soulmate Paul Rossbach, devoted helpmates Virginia Lopez and Vivian Little, her Temple High School classmates, many, many more friends in many parts of the world and a large contingent of true admirers. At her specific request, no memorial service will be held and, following cremation, her ashes are to be distributed on four continents at places which held special meaning for her during this lifetime. For more information contact Porter Loring Mortuary, 1-800-460-2704.
      