
        KUPFERMAN--Theodore R. (Ted). September 19, 2003. Beloved husband of Fran Liner. Devoted father of Ted Jr., Stephanie and Cynthia. Adored grandfather of Alexandra and David. Devoted brother of the late Alice Helm. He will be loved and missed by all who came in contact with him. Service Monday, September 22, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street. Interment Kensico Cemetery, Valhalla, NY. A celebration of Ted's life will be held at Montebello's Restaurant, 120 E. 56th Street (between Park and Lex), Monday, between 4 and 10 PM.
        KUPFERMAN--The Honorable Teddy Roosevelt. For 86 years, you rode with the people you represented as a Republican Councilman, New York City Council Republican Leader, superior member of the New York State Supreme Court, which caused your abilities to have the governor elevate you to the Appellate Division of the First Department. As your former law partner, I always followed your wise counsel, was proud of your service to the city, state and nation, and you will be sorely missed. Your contributions to governors of this state, mayors including John Lindsay and Ed Koch were a credit to your nonpartisan view of municipal government. As your former law partner, I will miss you forever. Bob Price
        KUPFERMAN--Hon. Theodore R. The Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department mark with sorrow the passing of their former colleague and valued friend. A member of this court for twenty-six years, his scholarship and humor were renowned and will serve as his legacy. John T. Buckley, Presiding Justice
        KUPFERMAN -- Honorable Theodore (Ted). The Partners and Staff of Projects Plus Inc. extend our heartfelt condolences to our friend and partner Fran Liner Kupferman on the loss of her beloved husband Ted. To his children Stephanie, Ted Jr. and Cindy, our deepest sympathy.
        KUPFERMAN--Theodore R. The Entertainment Committee of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York mourns the loss of its longtime member and friend, Hon. Theodore R. Kupferman. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Martha Cohen Stine, Chair
        KUPFERMAN--Hon. Theodore Roosevelt. The ride here is too soon over. Now you may enjoy the Home in the Sky. All will miss your kindness, wisdom, judgement and humor. Richard H.M. and Gail Lowe Maidman
        KUPFERMAN--Hon. Theodore. Thanks for your kind friendship, wise counsel and steadfast support. You will be sorely missed by my family and myself. Theodore O. Prounis
        KUPFERMAN--Hon. Theodore. Your kindness, support and mentoring will never be forgotten. Barbara H. Katsos
      