
        BROWN -- The Honorable Matthew. Age 98, of Palm Beach, FL, and Boston. On September 5, 2003, at home in Boston, after a brief illness. Distinguished and respected lawyer for 62 years, Founder of Brown Rudnick, Freed and Gesmer, P.C., Boston, generous philanthropist, passionate lifelong advocate for Israel, committed public servant. Cherished husband of Edna (Goodrich) for 71 years. Adored father of Patricia Brown Specter, and the late Ronald G. Brown, admired father-in-law of David Kenneth Specter. Beloved grandfather of Matthew G. Specter and Evan R. Specter (Amy), great-grandfather of Luka, uncle of Roger A. Saunders and Donald L. Saunders. Dear brother of the late Shirley B. Saunders. Born March 26, 1905, in New York City. Graduate of Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, New York University 1925, Harvard Law School 1928. Special Justice of the Municipal Court of Boston, 1962-1972. Board of Selectmen of the Town of Brookline, 1961-1973, Chairman, 1970-1973, Mediator in the Palm Beach Circuit Court, Chairman of the Board of Boston Broadcasters, Inc., WCVB, Channel 5, Boston, 1972-1982. He was an Honorary Vice President of the American Jewish Committee, former President and Honorary Trustee of the Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Boston, New England CoChairman of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, Founder and Director of the Palm Beach Fellowship of Christians and Jews, Board of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, Fellow of Brandeis University. He received an Honorary Doctor of Laws from Suffolk University. He gifted the Matthew and Edna Goodrich Brown Gallery of French Impressionism at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Contributions may be made to the American Jewish Committee and the Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Boston. Services Monday, September 8, 1:30 PM, at Temple Israel, Boston.
        BROWN--Matthew Hon. The American Jewish Committee is profoundly saddened by the death of Judge Matthew Brown, AJC's longest standing member and one of our most admired and devoted leaders. An Honorary Vice President, member of the Board of Governors and Executive Committee, Matty served AJC with distinction and integrity for more than 70 years, including as former President and Honorary President for Life of our Boston Chapter. He was also an ardent supporter of AJC's annual Palm Beach Campaign. His abiding love of justice and of the Jewish people shone like a beacon throughout his professional and personal life. He was a gentle man. His intelligence, charm, warmth and humanity endeared him to everyone who knew him and was fortunate enough to be touched by his goodness and compassion. He will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Edna, his daughter Patricia and son-inlaw David, his two grandsons, and the rest of the grieving family. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Executive Director
        BROWN -- The Honorable Matthew. The Office of Specter DeSouza Architects, PC, expresses its heartfelt condolences to our esteemed founder, David Kenneth Specter, AIA, his wife, Patricia Brown Specter & their family, on the loss of her father. Ronald A. DeSouza, AIA
      