
        VON KLEMPERER--Alfred Herbert. Of Doylestown, PA and formerly of Mill Neck, LI, NY, died on August 28, 2003 at the age of 88. A wise leader in his family. His principles and good example will live on through his family. He was for 60 years the greatly loved husband of Nancy Church Logan Von Klemperer. In addition to his wife, he is survived by his children and their spouses: William J. and Barbara S. Von Klemperer of Summit, NJ, Diana VK and James R. Resek of Doylestown and Marie VK and Paul A. Logan of South Pasadena, CA; also by his beloved grandchildren Ben, Matt, Anna, Willy and Katy, to whom he was a true friend, and by many nieces and nephews. Also surviving are his brothers and their spouses: Franz and Shirley Von Klemperer and Klemens and Betty Von Klemperer. His sister Lily preceded him in death. Mr. Von Klemperer retired from J.P. Morgan & Co. in 1976 as a Senior Vice President after a long and highly respected career at the bank. During this time he also served his adopted country as an Assistant to the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury acting principally as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Finance. Following his retirement from J.P. Morgan, he became the President of PEFCO, Private Export Funding Corporation. He was an active member of the Council on Foreign Relations and at one time the President of The Bankers Association for Foreign Trade. Born in Berlin, Germany, Mr. Von Klemperer immigrated to the United States in 1937 and served in both the U.S. Army infantry and the Air Corps from 1942 until 1946, becoming a US citizen during this time and being discharged as a 2nd Lieutenant. In 1947-8 he worked for the US Military Government in Germany as a US representative to the Allies' Joint Foreign Exchange Agency that administered exports and imports in the occupied areas. A man of good will, he was generous with his time and talents: treasurer of the International Center in NY, President of the GermanAmerican Chamber of Commerce in NY, an officer of the Village of Plandome and a trustee of the Village of Mill Neck, President of the Board of Trustees of Buckley Country Day School, and for over 40 years the referee of his family's Christmas Eve touch football game. He will be missed and long remembered by all who knew him. A funeral service will be held on Saturday, September 6th at 1:00 PM at the United Methodist Church of Lahaska, PA. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to a charity of one's choice.
      