
        WEISS--Doris. October 16, 1930-August 30, 2003. Adored daughter of the late Helen and Nathan Trotzky, devoted and loving wife of 52 years to Dr. Bernard Weiss, extraordinary and supportive mother and friend to her children Wendy and Judd Meltzer and Cathy and Seymour Zises, exceptional and treasured grandmother to Samantha Meltzer Firestone, Jonathan Firestone, Joshua Meltzer, Aaron Zises, Benjamin Zises, Samuel Zises and Natalie Zises, cherished and beloved sister of Marie Rosen, dear sister-in-law of Jules Rosen, Ida Weiss and Marilyn and Jerome Weiss, cousin to Arthur von Wiesenberger, dearest aunt to Jonathan and Caroline Rosen and Billy and Suzy Rosen, caring greataunt to Matthew, Suzanne, and Ericka Rosen. Her courageous battle against cancer was fought with the same grace, dignity and elegance with which she lived her life. To those who knew her, Doris was a source of strength, love, guidance and wisdom. Her life was devoted to her family and words cannot do justice to the amazing way that ''G'' touched our lives. She will be dearly missed but in our hearts forever. Interment private.
        WEISS--Doris. We were more than just mother and daughter, we were best friends, the two of us, a circle of love, never to be broken, never to be forgotten. Our mornings spent doing the Times crossword, 12 daily phone calls back and forth, driving around doing our errands together, winters on Fisher Island and of course, spending your 70th in Paris. All this and so much more will be deeply missed. These past 18 months I have been so proud of you as I fought beside you for your life. I let you go now with my blessing so that your suffering may end. You have given me the greatest gift a daughter could recieve in your never ending love and I pass this on to my children and future grandchildren. I love you. You are in my heart forever. Love, Wendy
        WEISS--Doris. Always grandmother, sometimes mother, constant friend and confidante. Your unconditional love, guidance and support have helped make us who we are today and will continue to shape who we will become. You have loved and inspired me from the day you photographed my birth 25 years ago. Nothing could have been more meaningful than your presence and your blessings on our wedding day. Your legacy will live within the hearts of our future generations. We love you so incredibly much! Samantha & Jonathan Firestone
        WEISS--Doris. We will miss your sparkle, quick wit, many talents and most of all, the warmth of your friendship. You leave a legacy of beautiful souls as exemplified by our cherished friends, Wendy and Judd Meltzer, Samantha, Jonathan and Josh, who were blessed by your unconditional love. Our hearts are with Bernie and all who grieve your untimely passing. The Perelson Family
        WEISS--Doris. Grandma, you have been as much a mother to me as my own. Our daily phone calls have instilled in me a strong sense of who I am today and who I want to become. Your spirit lives on in me and will be perpetuated in my children. I love you so much, your first born grandson, Joshua
        WEISS--Doris. It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of our friend Doris Weiss. She was a woman of valor and we will cherish the memories of our time with her. Our deepest condolences go out to Bernie, Cathy, Seymour, Aaron, Sam, Ben and Natalie. The Zises Family
        WEISS--Doris. I recall with much fondness and love the many family occasions we have shared over the years as our grandchildren have grown up. My heart goes out to you, Bernie, and I share your sadness at the loss of a beloved spouse. Lucile
        WEISS--Doris. Dearest, thank you for 52 magnificent years of bliss with our family. You will be an inspiration for generations to come. Forever remembered, always in my heart. Sleep well, my darling, you are at peace. Your Bernie
        WEISS--Doris. Your love has touched the lives of all who were blessed to know you. We shall remember you always. With our love, Barbara and David Firestone
        WEISS--Doris. Our love and thoughts are with our dear friends, Wendy, Judd, Samantha and Joshua. Joy and Jessica
        WEISS--Doris. My sister, always in my heart. Shared memories to be remembered. I love you. Marie
        WEISS--Doris. You have been a second mother to me for almost 30 years and I love you as my own. Love always, Judd
      