
        BABSON--Irving K. 67, a well known trade publishing executive, passed from this earth on September 2, 2003. He was a resident of Turnberry Isle, Aventura (Miami, FL). Mr. Babson was the former Chairman of BMT Publications, Inc., New York, NY, a division of TSF Communications. He joined BMT in October, 1963, as an advertising sales executive, following a brief carrer in accounting with S. D. Leidersdorf. Mr. Babson flourished in sales and marketing, effectively marrying his background in finance and accounting with marketing and sales strategy. He rapidly advanced to Advertising Director of BMT and subsequently was named Associate Publisher of Ice Cream World, Co-Publisher of United States Tobacco Journal and Publisher of Radio and Television Weekly. In 1974, Mr. Babson became an equal stockholder with the two remaining company founders. Forseeing the growth of commerical gambling in the United States, he set his sights on the development of a publication specifically directed to this rapidly expanding segment of the economy. In 1979, Gaming Business magazine emerged as the first publication of its kind. As founding Publisher, Mr. Babson was active with state gaming commissions and legislatures, providing previously unavailable data on domestic and international commercial gaming, as well as on illegal gaming activities worldwide. Mr. Babson also served as Publisher of BMT's Convenience Store News, Smoke Shop Magazine, Electronic Distribution Weekly and a host of high tech trade show dailies, including IEEE, WESCON and others. During Mr. Babson's tenure, each of BMT's publications became the editorial and advertising leader in its respective industry. In December 1986, BMT was sold to publicly held Tribune/ Swab-Fox Companies, which named Mr. Babson a member of its Board of Directors. He retired in 1991, soon embarking on a second career in currency trading, founding Belize Equity, and, later, Holdsworth Investments. He also served on the Boards of a number of start up ventures. Mr. Babson was graduated from the Baruch School of Business, City College of New York (CCNY, now CUNY), in 1957. In the mid 1960s he participated in tobacco industry sponsored seminars conducted at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration. For many years, he was listed in Who's Who in America, Who's Who in Finance and Industry, and the International Directory of Distinguished Leadership. He was invited in the 1970s to become a Friar--a member of the prestigious Friars Club of New York. He was also a member of the National Association of Corporate Directors and a number of other professional organizations. He was preceded in death by his beloved wife, Laurie, and his parents, Matthew and Miriam Babson. Mr. Babson is survived by his three adult children, Stacey Babson Smith (Craig), Mia Babson Goldklang (Robert, M.D), and Christopher. He is survived by his four grandchildren, Remy and Justin (Stacey), and Matthew and Cole (Mia). Mr. Babson's many, many friends and loved ones are heartbroken at the loss of this truly extraordinary man who possessed a rare combination of outstanding intelligence, exceptionally creative business skills and an utterly bottomless heart. A burial service will be held Monday, September 8, at 10 AM, at the New Mt. Zion section of Hillside Cemetery in Lyndhurst, NJ. Donations may be made in memory of Irving K. Babson to the Gilda's Club of South Florida, 119 Rose Drive, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33316.
        BABSON--Irving K. In the dictionary under ''friend'' is your picture. We will miss you but we will always remember and love you. Joel, Mel, Steve, Norman, Richard, Paul, Peter, Rob
      