
        PLIMPTON--George. For 30 of New York Philomusica's 32 years George provided consisently good-natured and inspired leadership. We shall carry his legacy, informed by that special quality of inquiry he brought in his quest for perfection in all that he touched, into the future. On behalf of the artists, the Board of Directors and our many music-loving friends, I thank you George, for all that you represent, and all that you have done to help our cause. With deep love for you, and with heartfelt sympathies to your wife Sarah, your twins Lauren and Olivia, your former wife Freddy, and your devoted son and daughter Taylor and Medora, and all your loved ones, please rest peacefully, your perpetual smile of assurance intact through all the ages. Bob Johnson, Founder and Artistic Director, New York Philomusica
        PLIMPTON--George. Founder of The Paris Review, longtime supporter of Boys and Girls Harbor, Inc., and the driving force behind our annual Fireworks Benefit, will be mourned by his dear friend, Tony Duke, Founder and President, Board Members and the entire staff at The Harbor. His narration of the fireworks and great spirit made each year's event enjoyable for all. We will miss George Plimpton, and offer our condolences to his lovely wife, Sarah and four children, Medora, Taylor, Laura and Olivia. Stephen Dannhauser, Chairman of the Board of Directors Hans Hageman, Executive Director
        PLIMPTON -- George. The board and staff of the 92nd Street Y and the Tisch Center for the Arts Unterberg Poetry Center board committee note with sadness the passing of George Plimpton and send our condolences to his family. He was a warm, generous colleague with whom we collaborated for decades. At a 2002 performance of ''Zelda, Scott and Ernest'', he played F. Scott Fitzgerald, moving our audience to thunderous applause. He was a dear friend who will be sorely missed.
        PLIMPTON--George. The family of East Harlem Tutorial Program mourns the passing of George Plimpton, dearest friend and long time Board Member. We extend our deepest sympathies to Sarah Dudley Plimpton and family during this time of loss. With heartfelt condolences on behalf of all of EHTP, Carmen Vega-Rivera, Executive Director Lili Lynton, Board Chair East Harlem Tutorial Program
      