
        CANTOR--Louis. Age 81, died Sept 1, 2003. An accomplished attorney, pre-eminent in the field of construction law, a graduate of Columbia Law School, actively involved in ARMDI (American Red Magan David of Israel), formerly its National Chairman. He also devoted his time to the City College Alumni Association, where he had been a Director and Secretary of the City College Fund and a member of the President's Advisory Board. Captain of the City College Track Team in 1942 and a member of the City College Athletic Hall of Fame. A man of immense style and grace, a patron of the arts and a father and grandfather without parallel. He is survived by his beloved companion Ruth Singer, daughter Diana Dorman and her husband Jay, son David Cantor and his wife Elizabeth and grandchildren Jennifer, Kenneth, Joanna and Dashiell. Services Wednesday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        CANTOR--Louis. The National Board of Directors and membership of ARMDIAmerican Red Magen David for Israel-record with profound sorrow the passing of Louis Cantor, past National Chairman and, for many years, a dedicated and devoted Board member of the organization. His wise counsel, integrity, benevolence and inspiration left an indelible imprint on all of us as well as on the life saving work of MDAMagen David Adom-Israel's equivalent to a Red Cross Society. His noble spirit touched all who were associated with him. He will be deeply missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Robert L. Sadoff, M.D., National Chairman Mark D. Lebow, Nat'l Pres. Benjamin Saxe, Exec V.P.
        CANTOR--Louis. The partners, associates and staff of Greenberg, Trager & Herbst, LLP note with deep sorrow and a great sense of personal loss the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Louis Cantor. A founding member of our firm, Lou was a highly accomplished and admired advocate, a delightful and compassionate gentleman, a great intellectual resource and generous supporter of humanitarian causes. We will miss, but warmly remember, his insight, collegiality and humor. Our deepest condolences to his family and friends.
      