
        STULMAN--Elga Kron. On September 2, 2003, age 70. ''A Woman With Soul''. Beloved wife and best friend of Stephen L. Stulman for 50 years. Loving mother of Andrea and Richard Dennett, Jessica and Laurence Sheinman, James and Stacy Stulman, Laura and Jason Cooper; adoring grandmother of Alexandra, Adam, Jonathan and Rebecca; devoted sisterin-law of Joan Gilbert; caring cousin and true friend of so many. Contributions may be made to the Hebra Kadisha Fund of Cong. B'nai Jeshurun. Service Thursday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street, and Amsterdam Avenue.
        STULMAN--Elga. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Elga Stulman, beloved wife of longtime Weizmann Institute supporter and ACWIS Board member Stephen L. Stulman. We extend our deepest heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Robert H. Asher, Chairman American Committee Albert Willner, M.D., Pres. Martin S. Kraar, Exec. V.P. Stuart Eizenstat, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Prof. Ilan Chet, President Weizmann Institute of Science
        STULMAN--Elga. With great sadness, the Drisha community mourns the passing of Elga Stulman. Her passion for learning, her grace and her kindness, along with her unflagging spirit and her zest for life made her a vital presence at Drisha. Our heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband, Stephen, and her entire family. May her memory be a blessing. David Silber, Founder and Dean Daniela Weiss, Executive Director Drisha Institute for Jewish Education
        STULMAN -- Elga, beloved Board Member, continually shared her boundless energy, love and joy with everyone, her flair endowing Alaria with countless friends. Her exquisite culinary art graced many events, particularly our Tenth Anniversary Gala and Hamptons concerts. Her vibrant spirit will always be remembered in our music. We extend heartfelt condolences to her husband, Stephen, and to her family and friends. Alaria Chamber Ensemble
        STULMAN--Elga. The Conservative Synagogue of the Hamptons mourns the loss of its beloved board member. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Stephen Stulman, James and Stacy Stulman, and the entire Stulman family. Torah lit her path and she lit ours. Zichronah livrachah
        STULMAN -- Elga. Elga's neighbors at the Kenilworth Apartments extend their heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Stephen and their family. We will miss her warmth and friendly smile. John F. Geer, President Kenilworth Apartments
        STULMAN--Elga. We say goodbye to our dear friend of many years. A woman of high intellect and character. Our deepest condolences to Stephen and family. Barbara and Jim Robbins
        STULMAN--Elga. We are all diminished by the loss of Elga, a truly special and remarkable person. She will always be in the hearts of our family. Phyliss and David Koch
      