
        WEIR--David Andrew Jr. Of Loudonville, former president of Pepsi-Cola Allied Bottlers died on September 4, 2003, in Boston, MA, of complications from surgery. He was 79. Mr. Weir was born on February 2, 1924, in South Bend, IN, to David A. and Marie Broussard Weir. Mr. Weir was raised and resided in New Rochelle, NY, until moving to Albany in 1954, when he purchased with his partner, John R. Strachan, the Albany Pepsi-Cola Bottling company. Located in Menands, the company had 13 employees. Over the next five decades, it grew to be one of the largest privately held bottling companies in the United States, with 900 employees, covering the greater portions of New York, Massachusets, and Connecticut. In 1998, Mr. Weir and his partner sold the business to Pepsi-Co. Inc., the parent company, allowing him to continue to pursue his many cultural interests. In addition, Mr. Weir had a distinguished military service record. In 1942, at age 17, Mr. Weir joined the United States Navy to fight in World War II, serving until 1946. In his time in the Navy, Mr. Weir piloted landing craft on D-Day at Normandy, and also served on ammunition convoys in the Pacific theater. During this time, Mr. Weir earned the European African Middle Eastern Ribbon-1 Star, American Theater Ribbon, Asiatic Pacific Ribbon-1 Star, a Good conduct Medal, and a Victory Ribbon. Mr. Weir was a lifelong sailor and an avid collector of antiques and contemporary art. He was a benefactor of many community organizations, including the Albany Institute of History & Art, Albany Academy for Girls, and the Albany Medical Center. He was a member of the Fort Orange Club, the Saratoga Reading Room, and Schuyler Meadows Club. He will be sorely missed by his family and friends for his steadfast integrity, keen intellect, and unfailing humor. He is the beloved husband of Candace King Weir, his wife of 31 years, and loving father of their two daughters, Amelia and Katherine Weir. Mr. Weir is also survived by his son and daughter from a previous marriage, David Weir III of Miami, FL, and Janice Allen of Stowe, VT, and three grandchildren. In addition, he is survived by his sister Frances Marie Strachan. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated 10:30 AM, Tuesday, September 9, at The Historic Church of St. Mary, Lodge and Pine Streets, Albany. Relatives and friends are invited and may call Monday, from 6-8 PM, at the Tebbutt Funeral Home, 633 Central Avenue, Albany. Interment will be in St. Agnes Cemetery, Menands. In lieu of flowers contributions in Mr. Weir's memory may be made to Albany Medical Center, P.O. Box 8928, Albany, NY 12208.
      