
        LOGERFO--Paul. The faculty, students and staff of Columbia University Health Sciences Division mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Paul LoGerfo. Dr. LoGerfo was the David V. Habif Professor of Surgery and director of the Endocrine-Thyroid Research Laboratory at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons. He also served as co-director of the New York Thyroid Center and chief of surgical specialties at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Recognized as one of the world's leading thyroid and parathyroid surgeons, Dr. LoGerfo began his medical career at Columbia University after attending Upstate Medical College where he graduated Alpha Omega Alpha in 1967. Early in his career he developed the thyroglobulin assay, which remains one of the most commonly used methods for detecting recurrent thyroid cancer. In the late 1980's, he pioneered a new technique in the field of thyroid and parathyroid surgery by using local anesthesia on an outpatient basis. His commitment to research won him the recognition of the NIH with the NIH Investigator Award in Cancer Immunology. In addition to his active clinical practice and research laboratory, Dr. LoGerfo was an artist whose sculptures appeared in several galleries around the US. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his wife, Kristin Larkin LoGerfo, his father Dr. Paul LoGerfo, his brothers Dr. Frank LoGerfo and Dr. James LoGerfo, and his family, friends and patients. He will be deeply missed. Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D., Exec. Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Columbia University Joseph Tenenbaum, M.D., Senior Associate Dean For Clinical Affairs Columbia University
        LoGERFO--Paul, M.D. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our good friend and distinguished colleague, Paul LoGerfo, M.D., a member of the hospital's surgical faculty. Dr. LoGerfo will forever be remembered for his enormous contributions and pioneering efforts in the fields of endocrine surgery and research. To his wife Kristin, his daughters Susan and Cathy, the entire LoGerfo family and all his loved ones, we extend heartfelt condolences. Richard F. Daines, M.D., President and CEO. George J. Todd, M.D., Chairman, Dept of Surgery.
      