
        BURG--Lillian, 91, on September 17, 2003. Devoted wife of the late Harold Burg, M.D., beloved mother of Richard Burg and Linda Macklowe, loving mother-in-law of Harry Macklowe, affectionate grandmother of Billy Macklowe and Liz and Kent Swig, adoring great-grandmother of Simon and Oliver Swig. A gracious and elegant woman, loved by all who knew her. Services Thursday, 9:45 AM, ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in her name may be made to the Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, NYC 10021.
        BURG--Lillian. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale deeply mourn the passing of Lillian Burg, beloved mother of our dear friends, Richard Burg and Linda Macklowe and mother-in-law of Harry Macklowe, who we had the privilege of honoring. Lillian was the devoted wife of the late Dr. Harold Burg, a family physician, who worked for several years at the Hebrew Home. A lover of the arts who enjoyed opera, she was a volunteer at the Whitney Museum of American Art. For over 6 years, Lillian's warmth graced the Hebrew Home where she enjoyed the deep affection of staff, residents, and visitors. Our Home and our hearts have a void without Lillian. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren and hope they will be comforted by fond memories. Milton Gilbert, President Bernard Goldberg, Chairman Daniel Reingold, Exec. VP The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale
        BURG--Lillian. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of Lillian Burg and extend heartfelt condolences to her family: son Richard Burg, former Executive Director of Israel Bonds' Real Estate and Construction Division; daughter Linda Macklowe and her husband Harry Macklowe, former Division Vice Chairman; grandson William Macklowe, a member of the Division's Executive Committee; granddaughter Liz Swig and her husband Kent M. Swig, Division Vice Chairman; and great-grandsons Simon and Oliver Swig. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Joshua Matza, President and CEO Burton P. Resnick, Chairman of the Board Bobbie Goldstein, National Campaign Chairman Daniel R. Tishman, Greater NY Chairman James B. Emden, Chairman, Real Estate and Construction Division
        BURG--Lillian. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum are deeply saddened by the death of Lillian Burg, mother of our long time Director and generous supporter Linda Macklowe. We offer heartfelt condolences to Linda and Harry, Billy, Liz and the entire family. Ronnie F. Heyman Pres., AFIM James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir., IM
        BURG--Lillian. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Lillian Burg, beloved mother of Linda Macklowe. We extend our deepest condolences to Linda and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        BURG--Lillian. Lillian, you had an elegance and grace that was admired and respected by all who knew you. Our sincere condolences to Linda, Harry, Dick, Billy, Lizzie, Kent, Oliver and Simon. Arlene and Steve Genatt
      