
        MINKIN--David. 99, of New York, and Palm Beach, FL. Passed away September 19, 2003. Adored uncle of Patricia and Howard Lester. Greatuncle of Peter and Prescott Lester and Pamela Ford. Great-great-uncle of Owen Ford and Scott Lester. He was a true renaissance man, a leader of the community and a second father to us all. He will be sorely missed. Services Wednesday, September 24, 10 AM, at Riverside Nassau North, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, LI; 516487-9600. Contributions may be made to the Mayo Foundation, attn: Paul Harkess, Rochester, MN 55905.
        MINKIN--David. David Minkin, had he lived, would have been 100 years old on December 25th. This birthday was a date he shared with Louis D. Krasner, who was one of his dearest friends. In the years I knew David best he loved to reminisce about life at another time. Amongst his favorite recollections was of my parents wedding when in a moment of youthful exuberance he kicked my father's wedding top hat. My maternal grandfather remarked that his son-in-law to be had ''bumerkes (bums)'' for pals. David loved that story because it is so far from the truth of his life. I loved David for the telling and retelling of that story, for the private dinners with Linda and Esther, moments shared with Alissa and Jay, for visiting my home, for the friendship and respect he gave and received. I loved David, for the loyalty and friendship he gave to so many, his example of ''Tzedakah'' he set for all of us, for taking me as child to a Dodger game and for helping many in my family, cousins, uncles, siblings move out of Brooklyn and start married life in Queens. David is one of a kind who shared his time, his life, and his humor, making us all better for the experience. ''L'Chaim'' to David and his celebration of life to a great judge of rotten whiskey, with love & affection you are missed but never forgotten the Krasner/Maizes family. Linda & Michael Krasner Alissa & Jay Maizes, Zachary Maizes & Joshua Maizes
        MINKIN--David. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of our esteemed Vice President, and Chai Founder, but most of all, a cherished friend. Mr. Minkin's philanthropy and humanitarianism will endure as a lasting blessing. We extend heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Josh S. Weston, Honorary Chairman Raphael Benaroya, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Ronald Gray, Exec. VP
        MINKIN--David. Riverton Associates mourns the loss of our esteemed friend and partner, David Minkin. He brought years of experience and strength to the partnership and was a vital force on the Holland-Minkin team. His presence and sage wisdom will be sorely missed. All of our staff joins in extending warmest sympathies to the entire family. Richard Holland Stephen Holland
        MINKIN--David. The Holland Family is saddened by the loss of our dear friend, David Minkin. David and Jack were friends and colleagues for over 70 years in business and philanthropic endeavors. Both were legends and both have left their marks on the world. David was a great friend, great partner, and a great human being. Our warmest sympathies to the entire family. The Holland Family
        MINKIN--David. All of us at Jackson Mgmt. are deeply saddened by the loss of our esteemed friend and colleague. David was a quiet giant in the real estate industry and we are honored to have known him for so many years. Our heartfelt condolences to the Minkin, Briger and Thall families. Richard Holland Stephen Holland
      