
        SOLENDER--Sanford. Born August 23, 1914. Died suddenly August 30. Married 60 years to the late Ethel Klonick Solender. Beloved father of Stephen and Elsa; Peter and Susan; Ellen and Harvey Hirsch; Lawrence and the late Susan Bailis. Adored grandfather of Michael and Holly; Dan and Lynne; Max and Gretchen; Lisa and Jack Flick; Kathryn and David Bailis. Proud great-grandfather of 10. Dear brother of Robert and Ellen and Sylvia and the late Louis Shapiro. Funeral Tuesday, September 2, at noon, at the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue.
        SOLENDER -- Sanford. The officers, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities mourn the passing of Sanford Solender, a pioneering and visionary leader who dedicated his entire professional career to Jewish communal service as top executive and boardmember of several organizations. His passion for the sustenance of American Jewish life continues to find expression through the efforts of his son, Stephen, UJC's first president and current president emeritus. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to his three children, 16 grand and great grandchildren and the entire family. James S. Tisch, UJC Chair of the Board Robert Goldberg, Chair, Executive Committee Stephen H. Hoffman, President and CEO
        SOLENDER -- Sanford. The Board and staff of the National Foundation for Jewish Culture mourn the death of Sanford Solender, a wise mentor and a gracious colleague. As a Life Member of the Board, Sandy brought great wisdom, experience, perspective and compassion to our deliberations. His deep understanding of the needs and resources of the Jewish community were invaluable to the NFJC's growth and development. May his memory be a blessing and comfort for his family and for all who had the privilege to know him. Charlotte Newberger, Pres. James August, Chairman Richard Siegel, Exec. Dir.
        SOLENDER -- Sanford. The Board, Faculty and Staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership deeply mourn the loss of our esteemed and beloved longtime Board member, Sanford Solender. His wisdom, advice and counsel, his love of the Jewish people, and enormous contributions to the Jewish community will live on at CLAL and in Jewish life. All our thoughts are with Steve and Elsa Solender and the entire Solender family. Thomas O. Katz, Chairman Rabbi Irwin Kula, President Donna M. Rosenthal Executive Vice Chairman Rabbi Brad Hirschfield Vice President
        SOLENDER -- Sanford. We mourn with our especially dear friends, Elsa and Steve, the entire family and the greater Jewish community, the passing of a devoted father, a great leader, role model extraordinaire. To the end he was a vital participant in the affairs of the day, advising and contributing to his community. His life was a blessing to all. Ruth and Sam Perelson
      