
        JOHNSON--Michael Patrick, 51, died peacefully at his home in Kirkland, Washington on September 19, 2003. Over seven years earlier, Michael was diagnosed with brain cancer. Through a powerful intellect and sheer perseverance, reinforced by the loyalty of his family and friends, Michael battled his disease much longer than the doctors predicted. Michael was born to Harold and Fritz Johnson on August 20, 1952. The Johnson household was a loving and nourishing environment that with the addition of his younger sister Barbara, prized intellectual excellence and high competitiveness, both of which Michael put to good use, winning one chess tournament after another. While attending Menlo College, Michael excelled in computer programming. Together with his future business partner Mark Mahan, they had their first commercial success, computerizing the school's grading & admission systems. Following graduation, Michael worked for Data General, and then went on with his partners to start Redmond-based MAJIQ, Inc, which became a major supplier of computer systems for the Pulp and Paper industry. Michael's subsequent success in the business world came through a winning combination of his computer talents, his phenomenal tenacity, and his unusual people and communication skills. And hard work: Day after day, month after month, he traveled from one paper mill to another, winning contract after contract-and making countless friends along the way. In 1990, Inc. Magazine listed MAJIQ as one of the fastest growing private companies in America. At his fiftieth birthday party, a competitor paid tribute to his success and to the man, stating they ''couldn't lose out to a nicer guy''. As MAJIQ went international, Michael garnered recognition from his industry and served as Affiliate Chairman of the PIMA Information Systems Specialist Group. Mike was fortunate in his family life. In 1990 he married Irene (nee Ankudinova) and became a second father and a loving mentor to her daughter Sasha. The warmth of his family helped Michael in his ordeal. Irene was at her husband's side every step of the way and, along with his mother and sister, was at his bedside when he died. Michael Johnson set forth examples for his survivors to live by. He was caring and generous. He attacked life with a steadfast will and quiet confidence to get what he wanted and to share it with those he loved. He laughed. He made others laugh. And, during his illness, he never once felt sorry for himself, or asked ''why me?'' He simply kept looking for solutions with grace and dignity. He was overcome, but he never quit. Michael was preceded in death by his father Harold. He is survived by Irene, Sasha, his mother Fritz, sister Barbara, nephews Cody and Collin, mother in-law Inna, caregiver and friend William Houston, life-long friends and his legacy which will live in the hearts of those who knew him best.
      