
        BROWN -- The Honorable Matthew. Age 98, of Palm Beach, FL, and Boston. On September 5, 2003, at home in Boston, after a brief illness. Distinguished and respected lawyer for 62 years, Founder of Brown Rudnick, Freed and Gesmer, P.C., Boston, generous philanthropist, passionate lifelong advocate for Israel, committed public servant. Cherished husband of Edna (Goodrich) for 71 years. Adored father of Patricia Brown Specter, and the late Ronald G. Brown, admired father-in-law of David Kenneth Specter. Beloved grandfather of Matthew G. Specter and Evan R. Specter (Amy), great-grandfather of Luka, uncle of Roger A. Saunders and Donald L. Saunders. Dear brother of the late Shirley B. Saunders. Born March 26, 1905, in New York City. Graduate of Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, New York University 1925, Harvard Law School 1928. Special Justice of the Municipal Court of Boston, 1962-1972. Board of Selectmen of the Town of Brookline, 1961-1973, Chairman, 1970-1973, Mediator in the Palm Beach Circuit Court, Chairman of the Board of Boston Broadcasters, Inc., WCVB, Channel 5, Boston, 1972-1982. He was an Honorary Vice President of the American Jewish Committee, former President and Honorary Trustee of the Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Boston, New England CoChairman of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, Founder and Director of the Palm Beach Fellowship of Christians and Jews, Board of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, Fellow of Brandeis University. He received an Honorary Doctor of Laws from Suffolk University. He gifted the Matthew and Edna Goodrich Brown Gallery of French Impressionism at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Contributions may be made to the American Jewish Committee and the Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Boston. Services Monday, September 8, 1:30 PM, at Temple Israel, Boston.
        BROWN -- The Honorable Matthew. The Office of Specter DeSouza Architects, PC, expresses its heartfelt condolences to our esteemed founder, David Kenneth Specter, AIA, his wife, Patricia Brown Specter & their family, on the loss of her father. Ronald A. DeSouza, AIA
      