
        HUROWITZ -- Susie. Cher ished wife of Monte. Beloved mother of Steven, Stephanie, and Richard. Adored grandmother of Edward, Alexander, Andrew, Caroline, Asher and Henry. Dear mother-inlaw of Marc, Susanne and Sharon. Loving sister of Joan. She was the most special and wonderful person, a blessing to all who knew her. She was beautiful, kind, brilliant, charming and full of life, with a smile and wit that lit up the room. Her life was about joy and love, and doing good for others. She devoted herself with great energy to many charitable causes. She loved the world and immersed herself in her many interests with much enthusiasm, becoming a great artist, sportswoman, entrepreneur, bridge player and student of current affairs. But above all else, her life was about her family. She supported them and nurtured them with pure love and devotion, and took great pride and delight in all they did. She was the center of our world. There has never been a better wife, mother or grandmother. We will miss her terribly. Our love for her is beyond words. Funeral services at 10 AM, on Tuesday, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.
        HUROWITZ -- Susan. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a dear friend and devoted member of its National Women's Division. At the time of her death, she was serving as a vice president of the Division's Board of Directors and as an honorary president of its New York Chapter. With her beloved husband, Monte, she was a respected member of Einstein's Society of Founders. To Monte, to their children Steven, Richard and Stephanie Steinberg, a member of the New York Chapter's executive board, and to the entire family, we offer our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Dr. Norman Lamm, Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman, Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean National Women's Division Linda Altman, President Judy R. Rosenberg, Chairperson, Executive Committee Leslie Toepfer, President New York Chapter
        HUROWITZ--Susan. We are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of our dear friend Susie. She was full of life and surrounded by family and friends who loved her. We will miss her daily phone calls. We admire her courageous struggle to hold onto life. Our condolences to Monte, Steven, Stephanie, Richard and their families. Carol and Bob Furman Nancy and Jeffrey Lane Nancy and Harold Oelbaum
        HUROWITZ--Susan. Dear Susie, we treasure the years that we had you as our friend. We have so many wonderful memories that will always be in our hearts. Our sincerest condolences to Monte and to all of your wonderful children. With Love, Janet and Arthur Judie and Howard
        HUROWITZ -- Susan. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Susan Hurowitz, and extend to the members of her family our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary
        HUROWITZ--Susan. Susie, I will miss our morning phone calls. Rest in peace, Dearest Friend. We will love you forever. Condolences to Monte, Stephanie, Steven, Richard and family. Rita and Larry Schneider and Family
        HUROWITZ--Susie. The mutual love and admiration of your family and friends and the bliss of getting to know your grandchildren gave you the capacity to enjoy your life until the end. We will miss your vivacious personality. The Maidman Family
        HUROWITZ--Susan. To our lifelong friend Susie, we will always treasure your friendship and continue to enjoy the memories of the wonderful times and celebrations we shared. Madge and Martin Miller and Family
        HUROWITZ--Susan. We cherish all the years and wonderful times together. We were blessed by your presence, inspired by your deeds, and moved by your loyalty and love. You will always be in our hearts. Ginger and Mike Feuer
        HUROWITZ--Susan. My heart goes out to Monte and the Hurowitz family. Susie was a special woman. No one will ever forget. Bill Fischer and the entire Fischer travel family
      