
        HUROWITZ--Susan Marjory. Bright, Brave, Beautiful Susie. Susie had a Romance with Life and she lived it fully and with grace. Gone all too soon. We shall always remember her with love. To her dearest husband and best friend, Monte, her children, Steven (Suzanne), Stephanie (Mark), Richard (Sharon), and her adored grandchildren, her sister, Joan, and her niece, Stacy, your grief is ours. Rhoda, Herbert, Mark Cohen
        HUROWITZ--Susan. We are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of our dear friend Susie. She was full of life and surrounded by family and friends who loved her. We will miss her daily phone calls. We admire her courageous struggle to hold onto life. Our condolences to Monte, Steven, Stephanie, Richard and their families. Carol and Bob Furman Nancy and Jeffrey Lane Nancy and Harold Oelbaum
        HUROWITZ -- Susan. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member, beloved wife of its devoted member, Mr. Monte Hurowitz, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Dr. Sol Roth, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman J. Ezra Merkin, President
        HUROWITZ--Susan. Dearest Susan, a little bit of love and laughter has been taken from us. Rest in peace, dear friend. To Monte and the children, we will always be there for you. Love, Gail and David Rudnick and Family
        HUROWITZ--Susan. We cherish all the years and wonderful times together. We were blessed by your presence, inspired by your deeds, and moved by your loyalty and love. You will always be in our hearts. Ginger and Mike Feuer
        HUROWITZ -- Susie. Cher ished wife of Monte. Beloved mother of Steven, Stephanie, and Richard. Adored grandmother of Edward, Alexander, Andrew, Caroline, Asher and Henry. Dear mother-inlaw of Marc, Susanne and Sharon. Loving sister of Joan. She was the most special and wonderful person, a blessing to all who knew her. She was beautiful, kind, brilliant, charming and full of life, with a smile and wit that lit up the room. Her life was about joy and love, and doing good for others. She devoted herself with great energy to many charitable causes. She loved the world and immersed herself in her many interests with much enthusiasm, becoming a great artist, sportswoman, entrepreneur, bridge player and student of current affairs. But above all else, her life was about her family. She supported them and nurtured them with pure love and devotion, and took great pride and delight in all they did. She was the center of our world. There has never been a better wife, mother or grandmother. We will miss her terribly. Our love for her is beyond words. Funeral services at 10 AM, on Tuesday, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave.
      