
        HUROWITZ--Susan. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and benefactress Susie Hurowitz, beloved wife of Monte Hurowitz, an Honorary Trustee of Beth Israel. She will forever be remembered for her extraordinary commitment to the Hospital, its mission and many of its clinical programs, including serving as the founding co-chair of our annual Breast Service Luncheon. To Monte, their children Stephen, Stephanie and Richard, the entire Hurowitz family and all who loved her, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Continuum Stanley Brezenoff, President and CEO Continuum Thomas Killip, MD Interum President and CEO Beth Israel
        HUROWITZ--Susan. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Susan Hurowitz, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation who expressed her commitment to the Jewish community through her efforts on behalf of our Women's Campaign. Mrs. Hurowitz's husband, Monte, is also dedicated to Jewish and humanitarian causes. We extend our deepest sympathies to Mr. Hurowitz; to their children, Steven, Stephanie, and Richard; and to the entire Hurowitz family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP & CEO
        HUROWITZ -- Susan. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Susan Hurowitz, and extends sincere sympathy to her husband Monte and other members of her family. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary
        HUROWITZ -- Susie. Your love, warmth, kindness, devotion and beauty will live on forever in our hearts. You enriched the lives of all of us who were fortunate enough to come within your path. We love you and will miss you dearly. Love, The Cornfeld Family
        HUROWITZ--Susan. The Board of Directors expresses its condolences upon the passing of their neighbor, Susan Hurowitz, wife of honorary Board member, Monte M. Hurowitz. Irwin Engelman on behalf of the Board of Directors
        HUROWITZ--Susie. An unfillable void. Bill, Mary and Glenn
      