
        OSBORNE--James M. Jr. Passed away peacefully on September 6, 2003, at Appleberry Farm, Sandy Hook, Connecticut. Beloved husband of Betty Lou Brown Osborne, his wife of 55 years, he will also be dearly missed by his family: J. Robert Osborne, his wife Inge of Hamden, their children Owen, Devin and Carly; Michael B. Osborne, his wife Deb of Sandy Hook, their children Rebecca and Katherine Osborne Munno, her husband David Munno; Dorothy Osborne Cox, her husband W. Jay Cox of Guilford, CT and their children Dalton, Kendall, Elizabeth and Alice Frances; Susan Osborne White, her husband Brian White of Newtown and their children, Andrew, Ian and Emmett. He is also survived by his sister, Allison Osborne Titgemeier, her companion Richard Herr and sister-in-law Audrey S. Osborne of Chardon, Ohio. His nieces and nephews are John Titgemeier and Amy TitgemeierStevens, David A. Osborne, Richard M. Osborne, James M. Osborne III, Anne L. Osborne. His brother David A. Osborne died in August 1999. A graduate of Choate School in Wallingford, CT, Jim left his Class of 1947 at Dartmouth College to serve in the US Navy in the Pacific where he was a lieutenant on the cruiser USN Biloxi. He was among the first US Navy personnel ashore after Hiroshima and Nagasaki to ensure the release of the US prisoners of war held in Japan. He returned to graduate from Dartmouth where he was recognized as an All American Soccer player. Jim and Betty Lou Brown of Sandy Hook, CT were married on May 8, 1948 and settled on Appleberry Farm in Sandy Hook, where he worked for the Y&O Coal Company and then the Connecticut Coal Co, serving as President for 40 years. He was also the Chairman and President of the family owned Dock, Inc. Shopping Center in Stratford, CT. Jim and his sons Bob and Mike worked together for over 20 years and Miss Marion Philbin worked with him for his entire career. Jim served in many capacities on behalf of the Sandy Hook public school system, volunteer fire department and Boy and Girl Scouts. A fervent Cleveland Indians fan, he coached Little League and Babe Ruth for many years, also playing and coaching on the local Jacoby Bombers softball team. Jim served as a loyal member of the Newtown Rotary Club for over 50 years and was instrumental in establishing and assuring the achievements of the Heritage Preservation Trust. He was a member of the Men's Literary Social Club of Newtown and Treasurer of the Zoar Cemetery Board. A Corporator and Trustee of the Newtown Savings Bank for over 35 years, he was elected Chairman of the Board in 1996. He also served as Chairman of the Board at Gray Horse, Inc. and The United Garage Door Company in Ohio. Jim was the dearly loved patriarch of the Osborne Family. His friends and colleagues all found support in his company and were touched by his gentle spirit. Those who loved him will cherish their memories--he will be with us always. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to the Newtown Scholarship Association, PO Box 302, Newtown, CT 06470 or the Heritage Preservation Trust of Newtown, PO Box 3082, Newtown, CT 06470 on Jim's behalf.
      