
        LoGERFO--Paul, MD. The Columbia University Department of Surgery mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Paul LoGerfo, David V. Habif Professor of Surgery, Co-Director of the New York Thyroid Center and President of the American Association of Endocrine Surgeons. Dr. LoGerfo was a world-renowned leader in the field of thyroid and parathyroid surgery, a superb teacher, and a genuinely loving friend. He developed the thyroglobulin assay, one of the most commonly used methods for detecting recurrent thyroid cancer, and was a pioneer in the field of thyroid and parathyroid surgery by developing a technique using local anesthesia for most of these procedures. He also established the New York Thyroid Center, a comprehensive center dedicated to providing superior medical care and education for patients with thyroid disease, and implemented surgical registries which are invaluable resources for outcomes research. Three years ago, Dr. LoGerfo collaborated on ''The Thyroid Guide'', a comprehensive book intended to empower patients through education about their thyroid condition so they could play an active role in their own treatment decisions. Dr. LoGerfo was an extremely kind and generous person who was beloved by his patients and colleagues, and by scores of students who knew him as both mentor and friend. We extend sincere condolences to his wife, Kristin Larkin LoGerfo, his father, Mr. Paul LoGerfo, his brothers, Dr. Frank LoGerfo and Dr. James LoGerfo, his daughters, Susan Goetz and Cathy Haims, and his three grandchildren. Burial will be private. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Contributions may be made to The Paul LoGerfo Art Research and Education Trust, c/o Kenneth A. Forde, M.D., Department of Surgery, 177 Fort Washington Avenue, MHB 7SK, New York, NY 10032. The Department of Surgery Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center Eric A. Rose, M.D. Chairman and Surgeon-in-Chief
        LoGERFO--Paul, M.D. NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. Paul LoGerfo. One of the world's leading thyroid and parathyroid surgeons, Dr. LoGerfo was Director of Surgical Specialties at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center of NewYork - Presbyterian Hospital, where he established the New York Thyroid Center and a nationwide referral service for thyroid surgery. Throughout his career, Dr. LoGerfo pioneered medical techniques that improved countless lives and remain the standard of care today. An intellect and also an artist, devoted to his patients and to his family, he will be much missed. Herbert Pardes, M.D., President and CEO New York Presbyterian Hospital
      