
        PERALTA - RAMOS -- Paul. Patron of the arts and a founder of the Millicent Rogers Museum in Taos, New Mexico. Born February 18, 1931, passed away after a long battle with cancer August 26, 2003. A native of New York City, and longtime resident of Taos, New Mexico, he founded the Millicent Rogers Museum in 1956 as a posthumous gift from his mother Millicent Rogers to the people of New Mexico. He was the youngest of three sons of Millicent Rogers, who was the granddaughter of Henry Huttleson Rogers, a partner of John D. Rockefeller's in the Standard Oil Company and the driving force behind Anaconda Copper and U.S. Steel. In 1990, Mr. PeraltaRamos was honored with the Jefferson Award presented by U.S. Senator Pete Domenici who wrote, ''The selection for this honor acknowledges your commitment to preserving Native American and Hispanic art through your creation of the Millicent Rogers Museum. New Mexicans and you can surely take pride in this.'' U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman wrote, ''To receive the 1990 Jefferson Award is a distinction that puts you above the rest and you are to be commended for outstanding service to our great state and nation. Through your public service, you have enriched the lives of others and have made your community a better place in which to live.'' He also received a Congressional Certificate of Merit in appreciation for his outstanding service to Taos and the State of New Mexico. Congressman Bill Richardson, now the Governor the State of New Mexico, presented him with an Achievement Award in recognition of his outstanding and invaluable service to the community. Mr. Peralta-Ramos was also responsible for bringing Roman Polanski's debut film ''Knife in the Water,'' to the United States. This was the first time one of Polanski's movies had been shown in this country. In addition to his brother Arturo, Mr. PeraltaRamos is survived by his children; Christina, Isabella, Philip and his former wife Inga; and two grandchildren. Charitable donations may be made in his memory to the Millicent Rogers Museum, P.O. Box A, Taos, NM 87571.
      