
        ISTOMIN--Eugene, international concert pianist, (November 26, 1925-October 10, 2003), beloved husband of Marta Casals Istomin, loyal and generous friend, and mentor to many. He was celebrated and respected as a recitalist, orchestral soloist, chamber musician and teacher for more than half a century. His distinct musical tone combined with his extraordinary technical mastery and musicianship, made him a unique and well-renowned artist. His erudition and life-long passions for literature, arts, politics, current affairs, history, sciences and sports were an integral part of his elegant and sensitive personality. Beyond his musical talent and keen intellect, his friends and colleagues admired him for his wisdom and integrity, as well as his devotion to many human causes. His music and his quiet acts of kindness touched the lives of many. Mr. Istomin is survived by his wife Marta, his mother-in-law Angelica Montanez and the Montanez family, his cousins Mrs. Marjorie Brenner and Dr. Steven Chavin and their families. He is also mourned by many friends and colleagues. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Eugene Istomin Scholarship at the Manhattan School of Music, NY or the Eugene Istomin Endowed Piano Chair at the Great Lakes Chamber Music Festival in Southfield, Michigan. Private funeral. A memorial service will be announced at a future date.
        ISTOMIN--Eugene. Manhattan School of Music mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Eugene Istomin, esteemed pianist and humanitarian, dear friend and longtime faculty member, and beloved husband of our president, Marta Casals Istomin. For more than 50 years, Mr. Istomin was an inspiration to concertgoers worldwide through his extraordinary performances in recitals, chamber music concerts and as an orchestral soloist. A mentor to generations of pianists and chamber musicians, support, encouragement and incomparable musical knowledge will be missed. Mr. Istomin's unprecedented artistry benefited from his extensive intellectual pursuits. A great lover of the written word, he read widely on a broad range of subjects including history, politics, literature, poetry and the visual arts. For these pursuits he maintained an extensive library in his home and enjoyed sharing his books and his observations with his friends and students. A passionate American, he shared his musical gifts across the country, touring in his famous piano van. His love of baseball was confirmed when his beloved Detroit Tigers made him an honorary team member. On November 26, 2000, Manhattan School of Music was honored to celebrate his 75th birthday with a special concert and dinner creating the endowed Eugene Istomin Scholarship for Piano. The entire Manhattan School of Music family -- Board of Trustees, faculty, staff and students--extend our most heartfelt sympathies to Mrs. Istomin and her family. We will always be grateful for his music, teaching, and warm friendship, all enduring legacies that will continue to enrich us. David A. Rahm, Chairman Bella Linden, Vice Chairman Board of Trustees
        ISTOMIN -- Eugene. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of its beloved friend, the renowned American pianist Eugene Istomin, on October 10, 2003 in Washington, D.C. at the age of 77. Mr. Istomin was a deeply valued member of the Steinway Artist family for 60 years. Admitted to the Curtis Institute of Music at the age of 12, Eugene Istomin studied with Rudolf Serkin and Mieczyslaw Horszowski. His international career was ignited at the age of 17, when he won both the Levintritt and Philadelphia Orchestra Youth Awards. A gifted soloist who appeared at the United Nations, in the White House, and in all the capitals of music, Mr. Istomin was also widely acclaimed for his chamber music. With his colleagues Isaac Stern and Leonard Rose, Mr. Istomin won distinction for the celebrated performances and recordings of the Istomin-SternRose Trio. Not only did he make frequent appearances before heads of state, Mr. Istomin took his Steinways, and his piano technician, and traversed the nation in his custom-built G.M. truck, affording audiences in smaller towns and venues the experience of a metropolitan concert. A man of diverse interests, from literature and politics to art and history, Eugene Istomin was also a passionate fan of baseball. But his dedication to our piano and to our firm knew no bounds, and he will be sorely missed by us all. He will always be, to us, the MVP of the Steinway. To Marta we extend our love and heartfelt condolences. Bruce A. Stevens, President Peter B. Goodrich, V.P., Worldwide Concert and Artist Activities
        ISTOMIN--Eugene. Since he seemed blessed with eternal youth, it seems impossible that his countless friends at the United Nations and in the international community must now mourn the passing of our dear friend Eugene Istomin. His genius, wit, compassion and hospitality combined as an urbane model for the entire world. Our deepest sympathy and love go out to his wife, Marta Istomin, whose devotion supported his genius and brought incalculable richness to his life. We cannot fathom the immensity his loss will bring to world culture-music, art, literature and sports. Sylvia and Leni Fuhrman Charles DeFanti
        ISTOMIN--Eugene. November 26, 1925-October 10, 2003. One of the world's most gifted musicians and one of the best friends and colleagues my late husband and I ever had. His death represents the end of a magnificent musical era. The love between Eugene and his extraordinary wife, Marta, was a most rare and special blessing. The world's loss is Heaven's gain. Mrs Isaac Stern
      