
        SIMON--Peter E. was born on September 23, 1926 in Passaic, NJ. He attended Passaic High School where he was a star player for the school's basketball team. He attended the University of Nevada Las Vegas as well as the Naval Academy. His business career started in Passaic where he and his father, Irwin, owned a successful insurance company. He left the insurance business in 1967 and, along with partners, Melvin S. Taub, Herbert Kay and Samuel Brodie, founded the hotel company, Prime Motor Inns, Inc. The Company started out as a regional hotel real estate company until 1969 when it was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Between 1969 and 1992, the Company grew into a national chain, expanding through key acquisitions and internal development. In 1984, Prime acquired the Howard Johnson hotel company and in 1989 it acquired the Ramada Inn chain. Mr. Simon was Chairman of the Board, President and CEO of the Company from 1969 through his retirement in 1992. Not one to stay away from deal making or the hotel industry for too long, Mr. Simon started another hotel venture in Florida in 1997 with close friend and partner Patrick Guarini. They currently have a group of 5 hotels throughout South Florida. Mr. Simon was a private person who never took glory in the many successes he achieved throughout his career. He was devoted first and foremost to his wife, Susan, and his four children from a previous marriage and their spouses: Dale and Robert Ploshnick, David and Joy Simon, Lori and Steve Silverman, Jane and Steven Reichel. He was a loving grandfather to his 11 grandchildren: Lisa, Marc, Lindsay, Adam, Scott, Drew, Daniel, Gregory, Samantha, Matthew and Michael. He was adored and admired by his four stepchildren and five step granchildren: Liz, Jennifer, Carolyn, Jonathan, Gabriel, Charlie, Arthur, Daniel and Abigail. Funeral service will be held today 12 noon at the Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Route 4 East, Paramus, NJ. (201) 843-9090
        SIMON--Peter E. We will miss a lifetime of friendship that meant so much to us and a loyal partnership of more than 50 years. Our family joins us as we express our sadness and send deepest condolences to Susan, Dale and Robert, David and Joy, Lori and Steven and Jane and Steven. Carol and Mel
        SIMON--Peter E. Hillsborough Associates Inc. mourns the passing of its beloved Partner and Friend, and extends its heartfelt condolences to his wife Susan, his children David, Dale, Lori and Jane and to their families. We will miss and remember his vision, leadership and friendship always.
        SIMON--Peter. We are deeply saddened by the loss of a wonderful friend and human being. We will miss him terribly. The Axelrods, Teitlebaums & the Kisslers
      