
        ISTOMIN--Eugene. Manhattan School of Music mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Eugene Istomin, esteemed pianist and humanitarian, dear friend and longtime faculty member, and beloved husband of our president, Marta Casals Istomin. For more than 50 years, Mr. Istomin was an inspiration to concertgoers worldwide through his extraordinary performances in recitals, chamber music concerts and as an orchestral soloist. A mentor to generations of pianists and chamber musicians, support, encouragement and incomparable musical knowledge will be missed. Mr. Istomin's unprecedented artistry benefited from his extensive intellectual pursuits. A great lover of the written word, he read widely on a broad range of subjects including history, politics, literature, poetry and the visual arts. For these pursuits he maintained an extensive library in his home and enjoyed sharing his books and his observations with his friends and students. A passionate American, he shared his musical gifts across the country, touring in his famous piano van. His love of baseball was confirmed when his beloved Detroit Tigers made him an honorary team member. On November 26, 2000, Manhattan School of Music was honored to celebrate his 75th birthday with a special concert and dinner creating the endowed Eugene Istomin Scholarship for Piano. The entire Manhattan School of Music family -- Board of Trustees, faculty, staff and students--extend our most heartfelt sympathies to Mrs. Istomin and her family. We will always be grateful for his music, teaching, and warm friendship, all enduring legacies that will continue to enrich us. David A. Rahm, Chairman Bella Linden, Vice Chairman Board of Trustees
        ISTOMIN -- Eugene. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the untimely passing of its beloved friend, the renowned American pianist Eugene Istomin, on October 10, 2003 in Washington, D.C. at the age of 77. Mr. Istomin was a deeply valued member of the Steinway Artist family for 60 years. Admitted to the Curtis Institute of Music at the age of 12, Eugene Istomin studied with Rudolf Serkin and Mieczyslaw Horszowski. His international career was ignited at the age of 17, when he won both the Levintritt and Philadelphia Orchestra Youth Awards. A gifted soloist who appeared at the United Nations, in the White House, and in all the capitals of music, Mr. Istomin was also widely acclaimed for his chamber music. With his colleagues Isaac Stern and Leonard Rose, Mr. Istomin won distinction for the celebrated performances and recordings of the Istomin-SternRose Trio. Not only did he make frequent appearances before heads of state, Mr. Istomin took his Steinways, and his piano technician, and traversed the nation in his custom-built G.M. truck, affording audiences in smaller towns and venues the experience of a metropolitan concert. A man of diverse interests, from literature and politics to art and history, Eugene Istomin was also a passionate fan of baseball. But his dedication to our piano and to our firm knew no bounds, and he will be sorely missed by us all. He will always be, to us, the MVP of the Steinway. To Marta we extend our love and heartfelt condolences. Bruce A. Stevens, President Peter B. Goodrich, V.P., Worldwide Concert and Artist Activities
        ISTOMIN -- Eugene. The Board and Staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the passing of a cherished friend and distinguished artist, who graced the Carnegie Hall stage with 71 performances over the 50 years following his triumphant debut in 1943. His recitals, his concerto appearances and his legendary chamber music collaborations with Isaac Stern and Leonard Rose are all now an essential part of Carnegie Hall history. Our deepest sympathies to Marta Casals Istomin and the family. Sanford I. Weill, Chairman Robert J. Harth, Executive and Artistic Director
        ISTOMIN -- Eugene. While mourning his passing, I shall remember with gratitude his warm and loyal friendship and his wonderful performances as soloist and chamber musician. With empathy and sadness to my dear friend, Marta Casals Istomin. Bella Linden
        ISTOMIN--Eugene. I am profoundly saddened by the passing of Eugene Istomin, a unique musician, pianist and friend. My prayers go out to his wife Marta Casals Istomin. Lee Lamont
        ISTOMIN--Eugene. I have known Eugene for the longest time. I have enjoyed his music making and friendship ever so much. My fondest thoughts to Martita. Vera Stern and children
      