
        MELLO -- Judy Hendren (Schwamm). Judy: You have filled my life, and all the world, with love and happiness. You have fought the courageous battle. Undaunted, head upright, never without optimism and always with a joyful spirit. Wherever you have walked you have given forth love, caring and generosity and have been a source of comfort and inspiration to many. There has never been a mother who loved her children and grandchildren more or was more loved by children and grandchildren than you were. You helped them all grow and to become better and more caring people. You will be missed by all. A day shall never pass that your memory will not fill my heart with gladness for having had the joy and privilege of knowing and loving you. ''A woman of valour who can find? For her price is far above rubies. Strength and dignity are her clothing and she laugheth at the time to come. Many daughters have done valiantly but thou excellest them all.'' Everyone is searching the sky--looking for the newest and brightest star in the firmament. Jay.
        MELLO -- Judy Hendren (Schwamm). On October 21st, while sleeping peacefully and with great dignity at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center, NYC, after a seventeen year courageous battle fought with strength and dignity. Born July 14, 1943 to the late Colonel Ed Hendren and Dorthy May Hendren in Chickasha, Oklahoma. She is survived by her husband, Jay Marc Schwamm of NYC; six step children and seven step grandchildren; her brother Ed Hendren, Esquire, of Chico, CA; 28 nieces, nephews, grand-nieces and grand-nephews, and her stepmother Irene Hendren of Rome, GA. She is the sister of the late Jerry Hendren and Kathryn Hendren. There will be a Memorial Service at St. Peter's Episcopal Church, Deep Hollow Road, Lithgow, Millbrook, NY on Saturday, November 29th at 2:30 PM. In lieu of flowers, those who wish may send contributions in her name to St. Peter's Episcopal Church, attention of the Reverend Ed Johnston.
        MELLO -- Judy Hendren (Schwamm). Dear friend for 35 years, devoted wife to Jay and pied piper to her stepchildren, step grandchildren and many other young people, including Jp and David Flaherty. A wonderful human being who accomplished so much professionally and in her church and civic activities; who courageously overcame a dreadful disease for 17 years; and who exuded love for others. We will miss you forever and promise we will take care of Jay. Pam, Peter, Jp and David Flaherty
        MELLO -- Judy Hendren (Schwamm). Wonderful friend, advisor, confidante. Life spirit, gifted sportswoman, great hostess. We will miss you, but your spirit and example will always be with us. Wenke and Bill Sterns Alexis and Camille Thoman
      