
        ZAPHIROPOULOS -- Doris Slawson. Died October 4, 2003 at home. A gracious woman, elegant in body, mind and spirit, she nurtured and saw come to flower generations of therapists and their patients while serving as Administrator of the Clinical Services of the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute for thirty-three years and beyond. She was the loving and loved wife of Miltiades, stepmother of Lela and Leigh, and stepmother-in-law of Jan Van Assen and Bryn McCornack, forever to be remembered as a cherished presence and a compassionate human being whose laughter was precious, and whose words were never unkind. Also remembered by all those who were fortunate enough to feel her steadfast and beneficent touch. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. Contributions in her memory may be made to the William Alanson White Institute, 20 West 74th Street. New York, NY 10023-2401.
        ZAPHIROPOULOS -- Doris Slawson. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and Society deeply mourn the death of Doris Slawson Zaphiropoulos, who served the Institute and its Society members from 1958 to 1993. For the greater portion of those 35 years, Doris was Administrator of the Institute's Clinical Services. Doris was a beloved member of the Institute community, respected by her staff and colleagues for her grace, intelligence and unfailing kindness. She was a source of wisdom and compassion for many generations of candidates in training, helping them through the exigencies of their work and their lives. Her caring and optimistic spirit made her an important presence at the Institute. She kept close ties with many graduates and followed their careers and lives with interest and empathy. She remained above the fray of Institute politics and was steadily available for all of us, with generosity and warmth. We remember, with gratitude, how much it meant simply to visit her office and feel touched and invigorated by her smile. She will be sorely missed. Joerg Bose, M.D., Institute Director Clark Sugg, M.D., Society President
      