
        WITKIND -- Richard Jules. Born in New York City September 23, 1920. Graduate of Horace Mann School and the University of Virginia (1942), where he played goalie on the national champion lacrosse team. Joined the Navy and served as a gunnery officer on the battleship USS Arkansas in the Atlantic and Pacific. Present at D-Day providing support for the landing on Omaha Beach. Started his career in the securities industry at Bache & Co. and subsequently conducted his own business as a member of the New York Stock Exchange. In addition to his business interests, he was a limited partner in the New York Yankees baseball team. Moved from New York to the country (meaning Columbus, Ohio) in 1963. Likely the first to commute weekly by helicopter and plane from Wall Street to the Midwest (see Alvin Toffler's Future Shock). Always the consummate gentleman, he was a wellspring of arcane information, incisive observation and sophisticated whimsy. A beautiful bass speaking voice but no singing ability: his family laughed when he sang the Star Spangled Banner in either Yankee Stadium or Ohio Stadium (see Phyllis Greene's Moonglow). Preceded in death by wife, partner and fan of 45 years, Charlotte Lazarus Witkind. Also predeceased by sister Blanche Witkind Axelrod, brother Lloyd Myron Whitkind and first wife Gladys Butler Witkind. Survived by sons Robert Lazarus Gorman (Linda) and Donald Gorman (Lisal), daughters Babette T. Gorman and Vivian Witkind Davis (Jack), eight grandchildren and one great grandchild, as well as sisters - in - law, brothers - in law, nephews and nieces. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, 970 Crupper Avenue, Columbus, Ohio 43229, or the Charlotte Lazarus Witkind Fund for the Celebration of Reading, Columbus School for Girls, 56 South Columbia Ave., Columbus, Ohio 43209. Family and friends will celebrate Dick's life at his and Char's home on Sunday, October 5, kicking off at 12:10 P.M. and ending at 3:00 P.M.
      