
        PERKIN--Richard Talmage. Of New York City, on October 9, 2003. Age 72. Loving husband of Leslie Manning Bergesch, devoted father of Kristina, Nicolas and Caroline, and proud grandfather of Olympia Talmage Davison. Born on July 13, 1931, Mr. Perkin was the son of the late Richard Scott Perkin, a founder of the Perkin-Elmer Corporation, and the late Gladys Frelinghuysen Talmage Perkin. He was a descendant of Captain Thomas Talmage, a founder of East Hampton in 1648, and Philip Rhinelander, an 18th century New York merchant. A graduate of Milton Academy (1950) and Harvard University (1954), where he was a member of the Spee Club, Mr. Perkin was chairman of the VZV Research Foundation, which he founded in 1991. The New Yorkbased foundation is the world's only nonprofit organization solely fostering research and education on infections caused by the varicella-zoster virus (VZV), including chickenpox, shingles and post-herpetic neuralgia. Mr. Perkin was also chairman of The Perkin Fund, a family foundation that supports scientific research and the arts. He was a trustee of The Juilliard School and the Wildlife Conservation Society, and a member of the Executive Committee of the Rockefeller University Council. He also served on the New York Weill Cornell Council of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, the Visiting Committee of Harvard University's Department of Astronomy and the Committee for Planetarium Policy at the American Museum of Natural History. Prior to devoting his life to furthering scientific research and education on VZV, Mr. Perkin was active in public media, including television documentary syndication. In addition to his wife, children and granddaughter, Mr. Perkin is survived by a brother, Robert S. of Darien, CT, and a sister, Winifred Perkin Gray of Wenham, MA. Another brother, John Thorne, died in 1997. A memorial service will be held at St. Thomas Church, 1 West 53 Street, New York City, at 3:00 P.M. on Wednesday, October 15, 2003. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions in Mr. Perkin's memory may be sent to the VZV Research Foundation, Inc., 40 East 72 Street, New York, NY 10021.
        PERKIN--Richard T. The Rockefeller University deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend Richard T. Perkin, a dedicated member of the Rockefeller University Council and longtime University benefactor. He carried on the legacy of his mother, Gladys T. Perkin, in generously supporting University endeavors and bringing wisdom, warmth, wit, and a passion for science to his service as a member of the Council Executive Committee since 1993. He will be remembered with greatest admiration for his foresight and commitment as founder and chairman of the VZV Foundation, through which he brought enlightenment about the varicella-zoster virus by creating support for research and education. He was foremost a gentleman and a friend. He will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Leslie; to our Council member, Kristina Perkin Davison, his daughter who also carries on the family tradition of commitment to The Rockefeller University; to his son, Nicolas; his daughter, Caroline; his sister, Winifred Perkin Gray; his brother, Robert S. Perkin, and to the entire Perkin family. Richard B. Fisher, Chairman David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Richard M. Furlaud, Council Chairman Paul Nurse, President Joshua Lederberg, Frederick Seitz, and Torsten Weisel, Presidents Emeriti Stanislas Leibler, Gladys T. Perkin Professor
        PERKIN--Richard T. The members of the Board of Trustees of The Juilliard School note with sadness the death of their friend and colleague, Richard Perkin. A Juilliard Trustee since 1985, Dick Perkin, through his gentle guidance and consistent generosity, made important contributions to the School's well being and to the the performing arts in general. Our sympathies are with his wife, Leslie, his children and family. Bruce Kovner, Chairman Joseph W. Polisi, President The Juilliard School
      