
        DUFFY--Elaine M. Of Monte Carlo, Monaco, and East Williston, NY. Passed away at her New York home at age 60 on October 3, 2003 after a nearly five year struggle with breast cancer. She was the daughter of Elaine M. Higgins of Lattingtown, NY and the late Thomas L. Higgins. She was born on January 20th, 1943 in the Bronx, NY. Mrs. Duffy received her Bachelor's Degree from Mary Mount College in Tarrytown, NY and her Master's Degree in Education from Hofstra University in Uniondale, NY. Her passion was the education of young children and she taught fifth grade at Roads School in New Hyde Park, NY. Mrs. Duffy was an active supporter of Mercy Medical Center in Rockville Centre, NY and previously served as President of the Council of Leagues of Mercy Medical Center. She was a member of the Paris/American Club in New York, NY and an active member of the American Club of the Riviera in Nice, France. She was very involved in the American Community in the South of France and Monaco where she had lived since the 1980s and held the status of ''resident privilegie'' in the Principality of Monaco. Mrs. Duffy is survived by her husband James P. Duffy, III an international attorney their two children daughter, Jenifer E. Bendezu of Monte Carlo, Monaco and Chatham, NJ and her husband Luis A. Bendezu, M.D. and son James P. IV also an international attorney of Monte Carlo, Monaco and New York, NY and grandson Liam P. Bendezu. Mrs Duffy's mother also survived her as did her brother, Thomas L. Higgins, Jr. and sister Colleen Ebrahemian. Visiting hours Sunday and Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM, at Weigand Bros Funeral Home, 49 Hillside Ave, Williston Park, NY. Funeral Mass St. Aidan's Church, 505 Willis Ave., Williston Park, NY 11596 on Tuesday, October 7, 2003 at 11:15 AM. In lieu of flowers the family would prefer a donation in Mrs. Duffy's name to the Breast Cancer Research Foundation, Suite 1209, 654 Madison Ave., NY NY 10021. Toll Free: 866FIND/A/CURE for Breast Cancer Research.
      