
        GOLDBERG--William. The entire Yeshiva University/ Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary family is deeply grieved by the passing of our cherished member of the Yeshiva College Board of Directors who was a YU Guardian and RIETS Fellow with Lili, his beloved wife and partner in mitzvot. He was widely admired for his charisma, warmth of personality, compassion for his fellow man, his generosity, and his selfless devotion to all who were privileged to share his friendship. Our heartfelt condolences to: Lili; their children Saul (and Dale) Goldberg, Deborah (and Barry) Berg, and Eve Goldberg; to his eight grandchildren who share his devotion to Torah and to the Jewish people; and to his sisters, Bernice (and David) Weiss and Beatrice (and Samuel) Kauder. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton,Chairman YU Board of Trustees Julius Berman, Chairman RIETS Board of Trustees Joshua L. Muss, Chairman YC Board of Directors
        GOLDBERG--William. On behalf of the Board of Directors and the special children and families of Chai Lifeline we extend our sincerest condolences to Mrs. Lili Goldberg on the loss of her dear husband, William ''Bill'' Goldberg. Rabbi Simcha Scholar, Executive Vice President Samuel Zaks, Director of Development David Jemal, Sol Mayer, Larry Spiewak--Presidium
        GOLDBERG -- William. My good friend Willie has unfortunately passed away at an untimely time. I will mourn him and think of all the wonderful years and fun we had since the early 1970's. I would like to convey my deepest condolences to all the family. Salvador J. Assael and All the Staff at Assael International
        GOLDBERG--William. Be'er Hagolah Institutes expresses its deep sorrow on the passing of William Goldberg, a man who exemplified the highest level of philanthropy for all Jewish causes. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Lili. Marc Ratzersdorfer, President
        GOLDBERG--William. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with great sorrow the passing of its dedicated member, beloved husband of Lili, and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Yaakov Y. Kermaier, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman J. Ezra Merkin, President
        GOLDBERG--William. The Jewish Center of Atlantic Beach records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, William Goldberg, husband of Lili Goldberg. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and know no further sorrow.
        GOLDBERG -- William. We mourn the tragic loss of our friend and great supporter. Our condolences to his adoring wife Lilli and the family. Derek Emlander, President Mens Club Fifth Avenue Synagogue
      