
        GREENWALD--Raymond J. On October 18, 2003 at age 81. Ray left a beloved wife, Pearl, nephew James Kaye and his wife Meryl, his adored ''grandchildren'' Marissa, Mathew and Sarah Kaye, and loving cousins. Son of the late Samuel and Anne Greenwald, brother of the late Muriel Kaye. A life long resident of Manhattan and successful real estate entrepreneur whose fairness and humanity earned the respect and affection of colleagues, employees, tenants and everyone he met, and earned as well the devotion and friendship of his long-time assistant, Blanche Christian-Crawford. After WWII, when he served in the South Pacific as an Army Air Force Captain, he studied acting and directing before entering the real estate business, and becoming an owner of commercial real estate. He co-produced many Broadway and Off Broadway shows, most recently ''Enchanted April''. His intelligence, humor and generosity, even in illness will remain in the memory of all who knew him. Services were held. Shiva at his home, Wednesday 11AM to 9PM.
        GREENWALD--Raymond J. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of an admired and esteemed member of the Yeshiva College Board of Directors, and YU Benefactor who established the Raymond J. Greenwald Chair in Jewish Studies. Producer of Broadway and Off Broadway plays relating to the American Jewish experience, he was a devoted patron of the arts, and a warm, dynamic, civic-minded leader. Our heartfelt condolences to his most beloved wife Pearl, to his nephew, James (and Meryl) Kaye, son of his late beloved sister, Muriel Kaye, and to his ''grandchildren,'' Marissa, Matthew and Sarah Kaye. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Joshua L. Muss, Chairman YC Board of Directors
        GREENWALD--Raymond J. Congregation Ohab Zedek mourns the passing of our beloved member Raymond J. Greenwald z''l. His ties to our congregation reflected the generosity of his spirit. His Bar Mitzvah and wedding took place in the sanctuary he helped renew. He will be rememberd by his shul. Our condolences to his wife, Pearl and to his nephew Jimmy Kaye and his wife Meryl and children Merissa, Mathew and Sarah. May they be comforted with the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Allen Schwartz Ruben Taub, President
        GREENWALD--Raymond J. You were a wonderful trusted and trusting friend for 40 years, who embraced our family as your own, as we embraced you. We will miss you at our table on the holidays and remember you fondly always. Sandra, Jack, Deborah and Gabriel Levitt
        GREENWALD -- Raymond. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted, long-time member, Raymond Greenwald. Our deepest sympathy is extended to all his dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D., Senior Rabbi Nancy Solomon, President
        GREENWALD--Raymond J. Died October 18, 2003. Dear friend, respected colleague and client. We extend our sympathy to his family. Leipziger & Breskin, LLP
      