
        GREENWALD--Raymond J. On October 18, 2003 at age 81. Ray left a beloved wife, Pearl, nephew James Kaye and his wife Meryl, his adored ''grandchildren'' Marissa, Mathew and Sarah Kaye, and loving cousins. Son of the late Samuel and Anne Greenwald, brother of the late Muriel Kaye. A life long resident of Manhattan and successful real estate entrepreneur whose fairness and humanity earned the respect and affection of colleagues, employees, tenants and everyone he met, and earned as well the devotion and friendship of his long-time assistant, Blanche Christian-Crawford. After WWII, when he served in the South Pacific as an Army Air Force Captain, he studied acting and directing before entering the real estate business, and becoming an owner of commercial real estate. He co-produced many Broadway and Off Broadway shows, most recently ''Enchanted April''. His intelligence, humor and generosity, even in illness will remain in the memory of all who knew him. Services Tuesday, October 21, 1 PM, at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel'', 91st St. and Amsterdam Ave. Interment at New Montefiore Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY. Shiva at his home Tuesday, 6-9 PM and Wednesday, 11 AM-9 PM.
        GREENWALD--Raymond J. A wonderful human being has left our midst and we mourn his passing. Raymond Greenwald deeply was concerned about the welfare of the citizens of New York City. He had a particular interest in visual rehabilitation of the stroke victim and, thus, endowed the Raymond J. Greenwald Institute of Rehabilitation at the University Optometric Center, State College of Optometry, State University of New York. Through his generosity and philanthropy, thousands of persons afflicted with stroke will be aided in this facility that memorializes his name and his extraordinary work. Claudia C. Rouhana, President, Opeometric Center of New York Dr. Alden N. Haffner, President SUNY College of Optometry
        GREENWALD--Raymond J. You were a wonderful trusted and trusting friend for 40 years, who embraced our family as your own, as we embraced you. We will miss you at our table on the holidays and remember you fondly always. Sandra, Jack, Deborah and Gabriel Levitt
      