
        PERKIN--Richard Talmage. Of New York City, on October 9, 2003. Age 72. Loving husband of Leslie Manning Bergesch, devoted father of Kristina, Nicolas and Caroline, and proud grandfather of Olympia Talmage Davison. Born on July 13, 1931, Mr. Perkin was the son of the late Richard Scott Perkin, a founder of the Perkin-Elmer Corporation, and the late Gladys Frelinghuysen Talmage Perkin. He was a descendant of Captain Thomas Talmage, a founder of East Hampton in 1648, and Philip Rhinelander, an 18th century New York merchant. A graduate of Milton Academy (1950) and Harvard University (1954), where he was a member of the Spee Club, Mr. Perkin was chairman of the VZV Research Foundation, which he founded in 1991. The New Yorkbased foundation is the world's only nonprofit organization solely fostering research and education on infections caused by the varicella-zoster virus (VZV), including chickenpox, shingles and post-herpetic neuralgia. Mr. Perkin was also chairman of The Perkin Fund, a family foundation that supports scientific research and the arts. He was a trustee of The Juilliard School and the Wildlife Conservation Society, and a member of the Executive Committee of the Rockefeller University Council. He also served on the New York Weill Cornell Council of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, the Visiting Committee of Harvard University's Department of Astronomy and the Committee for Planetarium Policy at the American Museum of Natural History. Prior to devoting his life to furthering scientific research and education on VZV, Mr. Perkin was active in public media, including television documentary syndication. In addition to his wife, children and granddaughter, Mr. Perkin is survived by a brother, Robert S. of Darien, CT, and a sister, Winifred Perkin Gray of Wenham, MA. Another brother, John Thorne, died in 1997. A memorial service will be held at St. Thomas Church, 1 West 53 Street, New York City, at 3:00 P.M. on Wednesday, October 15, 2003. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions in Mr. Perkin's memory may be sent to the VZV Research Foundation, Inc., 40 East 72 Street, New York, NY 10021.
        PERKIN--Richard Talmage. The Board of Directors and Scientific Advisory Board of the VZV Research Foundation, Inc. note with great sorrow the loss of our chairman and founder, Richard T. Perkin, on October 9, 2003. A man of generous spirit and wisdom, Richard Perkin had been a success in business and philanthropy, when, in 1991, at the age of 59, he decided to found what remains the world's only nonprofit organization fostering research and education on the varicella-zoster virus (VZV) and VZV infections--chickenpox, shingles and post-herpetic neuralgia. Deeply committed to his work, he was instrumental in forging key scientific collaborations worldwide and in securing much-needed funding for important research. His selfless dedication to the cause also helped unite the international VZV scientific community and provided support and a voice for millions worldwide who are afflicted by this disease. Richard Perkin's integrity, benevolence and inspiration left an indelible imprint on all of us. He leaves behind many friends and colleagues who are richer for having known him and he will be deeply missed for his friendship and leadership. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Leslie, his children, Kristina, Nicolas and Caroline, his granddaughter, Olympia, his brother, Robert, and his sister, Winifred. Board of Directors Louis R. Gary Mortimer Berkowitz III David J. Braga Jerald Dillon Fessenden John H. Manice James S. Marcus Michael T. Martin Irving Sitnick Joseph W. Strohsahl Nicholas S. Zoullas Scientific Advisory Board Anne A. Gershon, M.D., Chair Executive Staff Gigi Bertot Liliana Coletti Dennis da Costa
        PERKIN--Richard T. The Trustees and staff of the American Museum of Natural History note with sadness the death of longtime friend and benefactor Richard Perkin, whose support for the Museum's science, notably the Hayden Planetarium and its programs, is deeply appreciated. On behalf of the Museum we extend our condolences to his wife, Leslie, his children and family. Lewis W. Bernard, Chairman Ellen V. Futter, President
      