
        SCOTT--George C., former Vice Chairman of Citibank, N.A. and Chairman of the Credit Committee, passed away at his home in Locust, New Jersey at the age of 95. He had a full and varied life, which he shared with his beloved wife of 64 years, Jane Chadbourne Scott. He was born in Brooklyn, New York in 1908, the son of George C. Scott Sr., President of the U.S. Steel Corporation, and Ruth Spencer Scott whose father was Corwin Spencer, President of the Saint Louis World's Fair Committee. George Scott was one of three children. His two brothers, Corwin and David, predeceased him. He graduated from The Principia Upper School in Saint Louis in 1927 and attended Principia College. George Scott started work at Citibank (then The National City Bank of New York) in 1929 as a messenger in the Foreign Tellers Department. He ws promoted to the Correspondent Desk and then to the Comptroller's department where he worked as an auditor. He was assigned to the Foreign Inspection Staff where he audited the foreign branches of Citibank for five years. In 1935 he married Jane Chadbourne whom he had known since childhood. He was then assigned to a domestic district to develop business for the bank. The Domestic Loan Desk was his next assignment and then he moved to cover the Southwest. He was in Dallas when he heard the news of the bombing of Pearl Harbor and immediately returned to enlist. He was made an officer in the Navy and, having a private pilot's license, was assigned to Squadron 7, an OS2U Sea Plane Operation based in Pensacola. In 1944 he was transferred to Washington, D.C. to work in the Office of Procurement and Material making Victory and Termination loans to manufacturers enabling them to change over from the production of military goods to civilian goods. With the end of World War II, he returned to Citibank and was promoted to Assistant Vice President, then Vice President heading the Southwestern District. After a few years he took charge of all activities west of the Mississippi River. Later he transferred to the Overseas Division and handled all foreign credit activities. Under George Moore, Chairman of Citibank, he was asked to assume the responsibilities of Credit Policy Chairmanship. When asked why-George Moore replied that he did not want a ''yes'' man and that George Scott was the only person he knew who would tell him if he were wrong. When George Moore retired, Walter Wriston became Chief Executive Officer promoting George Scott to Vice Chairman and asking him to continue supervising all Citibank credit activity. During his years in Credit Policy, he and his wife visited most of the countries where the bank had activities. Some years after George Scott's retirement, Walter Wriston was questioned as to how Citibank had gotten into their current bad loan situation. His reply was that George Scott was no longer there. George Scott served on the Board of Directors of Citibank, N.A., Dresser Industries in Dallas, and an American subsidiary of Siemens in Munich, Germany. He was Chairman of the Consumer Credit Counseling Service founded to help people with financial difficulties. In addition to his business life, George Scott had numerous interests. He flew his own single engine plane holding both instrument and water ratings. He owned a variety of sailboats during his lifetime and greatly enjoyed sailing and cruising. He was a past president of the Seabright Lawn and Tennis Club, a current member of the Seabright Beach Club, and a past Director and current member of the Rumson Country Club where he recently won the Club Senior golf championship. He delighted in playing the piano and the concertina. He was a member of both the First Church of Christ Scientist in Boston, MA and its local branch in Keyport, NJ. Two nieces, Nancy Mills Crabbe and Nancy Scott Cameron, four grandnieces, two grandnephews, nine great grandnieces, and one great grandnephew survive him. He was a consummate gentleman, a role model for many, and will be deeply missed. Funeral services are private and at the convenience of the family. For information Posten's Funeral Home, Atlantic Highlands, NJ
      