
        GILBERT--Harriet S., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of a beloved colleague, teacher and friend. Dr. Gilbert was an outstanding member of our staff for more than forty years. A world-renowned hematologist, she was a pioneer in describing the Myeloproliferative Diseases. She demonstrated extraordinary concern for her patients and was a valued ''mother figure'' and mentor for generations of students and residents. She was an executive officer of the Polycythemia Vera Study Group and chaired the Biomedical Advisory Committee of the New York Academy of Sciences. Harriet and her late husband Dr. Paul Gilbert were dedicated supporters of Mount Sinai. We extend our sincere condolences to her entire family. Anthony Squire, M.D.-Pres. Vicki Lopachin, M.D.-Sec'y. Amy Weinstein-Admin.
        GILBERT--Harriet S., M.D. The passing of our cherished colleague, Harriet S. Gilbert, M.D. saddens the Mount Sinai family. Dr. Gilbert began her career at Mount Sinai as an intern, rising to the rank of Professor. She was a national expert in the blood diseases referred to as Myeloproliferative Disorders. As a member of the NIH General Clinical Research Centers Committee, she was dedicated to integrity in human research. Those who knew her realized that in a time of enormous obstacles for women in American medicine her ability to combine a career as a research physician, mother, grandmother and wife, made her unique. Her colleagues, patients and students will miss her. We feel privileged to have had the opportunity to call upon her for her brilliance and compassion. Hematology/Oncology Mount Sinai
        GILBERT--Harriet S., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague, Harriet Gilbert, wife of the late Paul Gilbert, M.D. For more than four decades, she was a beloved Physician in our community and a dedicated member of our faculty. She will be missed. Our sincere condolences are extended to her entire family. William G. Stein, M.D., President Barry D. Stimmel, M.D. Vice President Elliot Rayfield, M.D. Secretary Betty Mintz, M.D. Treasurer
      