
        DOVE--Grant Alonza. Born May 30, 1928 in Sycamore, VA, passed away November 17, 2003 in Dallas, TX at the age of 75. He was a loving husband, father and grandfather, a true Southern gentleman. From very humble beginnings, he became a leader in computer technology and research and was a respected business leader and board member for more than 20 companies. He grew up on a small tobacco farm in Gretna, VA, where he graduated from high school. With the small amount of money he saved from his own crops, he entered Virginia Polytechnical Institute, where he studied for one year before joining the U.S. Navy, where he served on a submarine rescue ship. He returned to Virginia Tech and graduated in 1951 with a degree in electrical engineering. After graduation, he took a job as a design engineer with Sperry Gyroscope Co. After about two years there, he discovered his preference for the customer and marketing side of the business and moved to a new position at W.L. Maxson Corp., a NY defense electronics contractor, in field engineering and equipment testing. He was sent to Texas by Maxson to work with Texas Instruments (TI) on a major missile program contract. Subsequently, in 1959, he began what would be a long and fruitful career at TI, culminating in his retirement 28 years later as an Executive Vice President. During his tenure at TI, his duties included overseeing several divisions, including the company's hi-tech research development department. He played a key role in landing TI's first anti-radar contracts for the Shrike missile and directed the development of its successor, the HARM missile, and its tactical radar systems. These anti-radar missile systems continued to play an important role in the Persian Gulf war and the Iraqi conflict. He subsequently held various positions running TI's radar unit and research labs, vice president of corporate and long range planning, overseeing various functions such as Corporate Development, the Defense Systems and Electronics Groups, the Materials and Controls Groups, the Latin American Division, Marketing and Consumer Products and TI's geophysical services unit, GSI. After retiring from TI in 1987, he became chairman and chief executive officer of Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corp., or MCC, an Austin-based private research cooperative launched in 1983 to help the U.S. regain its high-tech competitiveness against other international countries. In 1992, he joined Technology Strategies and Alliances, a venture capital company focused on investments in high-tech start-up companies, as a Managing Partner. In that capacity, he was active in assisting both large and small companies in growth and diversification strategies, through alliances as well as merger and acquisition activity. He was involved as a founder, investor and served as a director on many boards in the technology sector during this period. He was a director of several companies that were sold or acquired including Western Company of North America, Control Data Corporation, Net Worth, Net Speed, and Forefront Group. After serving on the U.S. West board of directors for 10 years, he joined the board of Media One Group, a spinout. He was the chairman and lead director for Optek Technology. He also served on the boards of InterVoice-Brite Inc., Cooper Cameron, Vocal Data, Object Space, Inet Technologies Inc., Intrusion Inc. and Control Systems International. He was also the former Chairman of the National Security Industrial Association. He received the Distinguished Alumnus Award for 1995 from the Virginia Tech College of Engineering, where he also served on the Committee of 100, as a member of the College's Advisory Board and Bradley Department of Electrical Engineering Advisory Board. He was an avid sportsman and an excellent athlete. He enjoyed golf, having been a member at Preston Trail Golf Club in Dallas for over thirty years, fishing, especially flyfishing for Atlantic Salmon in Labrador, skiing, especially in Taos, NM, flying his own aircraft, and boating, especially the ''September Song'' and ''Liberty'' in Maine. He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Peg Brady Dove, sons and daughters-in-law Gene and Carmen Dove of Daly City, CA, Tim and Jenny Dove of Frisco, TX, Brian and Cindy Dove of Missouri City, TX and Terry Dove of New York, NY, and six grandchildren, Brendan, Brittany, Lindsay and Lana Dove of Frisco, Texas and Jessica and Brady Dove of Missouri City, TX, all of whom knew him as ''Poppy''; he was preceded in death by his daughter, Maura Dove. He is also survived by his sisters, Ajean McKinsey of Rockville, MD and Ann Marie Shelton of Gretna, VA. A funeral mass will be held at 10:30 a.m. on Thursday November 20 at All Saints Catholic Church, 5231 Meadowcreek Drive, Richardson, TX 75248. In lieu of flowers please make donations to UT Southwestern/Bone Marrow Transplant Unit for the continuing research of Drs. Robert Collins and Robert Ilaria, P.O. Box 910888, Dallas, TX 75391-0888. For further information, contact Restland: 972 - 238 - 7111, www.restland funeralhome.com.
      