
        LEVIEN--Donna Joy. Of Kings Point, NY, died on November 8, 2003, of metastatic breast cancer. Dedicated and forever supportive wife to Phil, loving and caring mother to sons Jeff and Mark, and her daughters-in-law Ivy and Joanne. Proud Nanny of grandson Gray. Protective sister and friend to brother Ron Kisner and his wife Ellen. Also survived by mother-inlaw Jane, brothers-in-law Barry and George, and their respective wives, Jane and Margon, and nieces and nephews David, Melissa, Michael, Jamie, David, Tracy, Ashley, Danielle and Alec. She guided her family with love and devotion, and was a loyal and engaging friend to many. She will be missed immensely for her leadership, and will be revered for her courage in her struggle against breast cancer. She was an avid reader, card player, movie goer and traveler. Interment private. Memorial service to be held Monday, November 10, at 2 PM, at Temple Emanuel, 150 Hicks Lane, Great Neck, NY. In lieu of flowers the family asks for donations to be made to your favorite charity in her memory.
        LEVIEN--Donna Joy. You made every day an adventure, every night a party. We will miss your phone calls, vivacious personality, beautiful smile and generous, kind heart. Our deepest sympathy to Phil, Jeffrey, Mark, Grayson, Ron, Ellen, Ivy and Joanne. We will never forget you. Rest in peace, dear friend. Love, Joanne and Michael
        LEVIEN--Donna. My friend for over 34 years. A warm, caring, fun, unique and special person. She was beautiful both inside and out. I will always remember the wonderful times together from discos to holidays and cards. I will cherish the memories and love her forever. She will always be my Queen of Hearts. Love, Betsy
        LEVIEN--Donna Joy. Of Kings Point, NY. We mourn the loss of our dearest friend and aunt. Our kinship and wonderful memories will live in our hearts forever. Our love and sympathy go out to Phil, Mark, Joanne, Jeffrey, Ivy and Grayson. Love, Shelley, Fred, Jon, Amy, Jill and Sandy
        LEVIEN--Donna. Our sincere condolences to Phil, Jeff, Ivy, Mark, Joanne, Gray, Ellen and Ron, on the loss of their Donna. We will always remember her and carry her in our hearts forever. Our love and prayers are with you and your wonderful family. Betsy, Bob, Ned, Nancy and Stephen
        LEVIEN -- Donna, whose sense of humor, love of life and heroic fight to live was an inspiration to all of us who knew and loved her. We'll never forget our many hilarious times together. Our hearts go out to her devoted husband Philip, and the rest of her wonderful family. Lynne and John Vassallo
        LEVIEN--Donna. The Board of Governors and the members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Donna, wife of our esteemed member, Philip, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Board of Governors Alan Goldberg, President
        LEVIEN--Donna. No one loved life more than you. You fought a courageous battle. You will be missed by all. Our hearts are with Phil, Jeffrey, Ivy, Grayson, Mark and Joanne. With Love, Brenda and Bob Feldman
        LEVIEN--Donna Joy. Beautiful sister and wonderful aunt, we will always remember your heart, humor, glamor and grace. We love you and miss you. Ellen, Ron and Tracy Kisner Jamie and Dave Sirkin
        LEVIEN--Donna. Always a beautiful smile and an infectious laugh, that is how we will remember you. Our heartfelt condolences to Phil, Jeffrey, Mark, Ivy, Joanne, Gray and the entire Levien and Kisner families. Carol and Richard Kalikow
        LEVIEN--Donna. To know Donna was to love her. You will always be a special part of our lives. We will miss you with all our hearts. Lois and Bob Ali and Jason
        LEVIEN--Donna. Our hearts, our love and our prayers are with Phil, Jeffrey, Ivy, Mark and Joanne. We have lost a truly wonderful friend and wonderful person. Barbara and Jeffrey London
        LEVIEN--Donna. I will always cherish our friendship, and you will be alive in my heart forever. My deepest condolences to the Levien and Kisner families. Ellen Manheimer
        LEVIEN--Donna Joy. Of Kings Point, NY. We mourn the loss of our sister-in-law, Donna. Our deepest sympathy to Philip and his family. Love, Barry and Jane and Family
        LEVIEN--Donna Joy. Of Kings Point, NY. God needed another rose in his garden, so he picked you. You're gone but not forgotten. I love you. Gloria
        LEVIEN--Donna. On November 8, 2003, our dear friend Donna lost her courageous fight for life. She will always remain in our hearts. Lorraine and Irving Aaron
        LEVIEN--Donna. A light that shines as bright as yours can never be extinguished. We will never forget you. Love, Kenny, Alissa, Jesse and Jordana
        LEVIEN--Donna Joy. Queen of the cue bids--Queen of our hearts. Tuesday evenings will never be the same. Love, Dina, Oshri, Joanne
        LEVIEN--Donna. My Donna Joy, dearest and cherished friend, my queen of cue bids. I'll always love and miss you. Lois
      