
        KLEINER -- Sam. Fisher Brothers mourns the passing of our dear counsel, Sam Kleiner. For over two decades, he was our invaluable partner, confidant and most importantly, great friend. Beside being a skilled and knowledgeable attorney, Sam was an astute, fair-minded businessman, profoundly respected by all. Our hearts go out to his wife, Darlene, his five sons, Jeremy, Benjamin, Kenneth, David and Christopher, his two granddaughters, Karson and Devon, as well as his mother, Betty Kleiner, and his sister, Hannah Weise. Sam was taken from us all too soon. His warmth, gentleness, wisdom and pure sweetness will never be forgotten. Fisher Brothers Arnold Fisher Richard L. Fisher Ken Fisher Steven Fisher Winston C. Fisher
        KLEINER--Samuel K., 61 years old, died peacefully on November 18, 2003 after a valiant fight. Beloved and devoted husband, father, grandfather, son, brother, uncle, brother-in-law and friend. He was a highly respected real estate attorney, serving as General Counsel to Fisher Brothers for the past 25 years. His zest for life was expressed by his devotion to his family, his passion for tennis and cinema and his commitment to his friends. He is survived by his adored and adoring wife, Darlene Diamond Kleiner, his beloved sons Kenneth (Farrah), David, Christopher (Mollie), Jeremy and Benjamin, his loved granddaughters Carson and Devin. Cherished son of Betty and the late Sidney Kleiner. He will be loved and missed by all that knew him. Service will be held at Central Synagogue (55th and Lexington Avenue), Thursday, November 20, 2003 at 10:30AM.
        KLEINER--Samuel K. To our Grandpa Sam, we will miss you and wish you could have seen us grow up. Love, your girls Carson and Devin
        KLEINER--Samuel. The partners of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP mourn the untimely passing of Sam Kleiner, a loving husband and father, and a most loyal and dedicated counsel to our clients and friends at Fisher Brothers. We extend our deepest condolences to Sam's mother Betty, wife Darlene, his cherished children Jeremy, Benji, Kenneth and Farrah, Christopher and David, and to everyone at Fisher Brothers who will miss Sam's wisdom, advice and passion for life. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP
        KLEINER--Samuel L. Words cannot express how sad we are to learn of the terrible loss of our dear friend, Sam Kleiner. You have been such an important part of our lives, and we will never, ever forget you. Our thoughts and prayers go out to Darlene and their children, Kenneth, Christopher, David, Jeremy, and Benjamin, and to his mother Betty and his sister Hannah during this very difficult and painful time. Tammy, Ken, Crystal, Brittany, Joshua
        KLEINER--Samuel. We will miss Sam beyond our ability to express in words and shall treasure the memory of the wonderful times we have shared together. We extend our sincerest condolences to his mother Betty, his wife Darlene, his children Jeremy, Benji, Kenneth and Farrah, Christopher and David on the devastating loss of a most loving husband, dedicated father, and loyal friend. Lorraine and Herbert Podell
        KLEINER--Samuel L. We sadly acknowledge the passing of Sam Kleiner, our longtime confidant, partner and friend. His passing leaves a great void in the hearts of all those his life touched. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife Darlene and their children Kenneth, Christopher, David, Jeremy, and Benjamin, and granddaughters Karson and Devon. Arnold and Audrey Fisher
        KLEINER--Sam. We mourn the loss of our dear and wise friend, Sam. His kindness and warmth permeated all his relationships and his character and integrity embraced us all. Sam made every day better for me and for all of us. Our heartfelt sympathies go to his wonderful wife, Darlene, his children and grandchildren. We will miss him forever. Nancy and Marty Edelman
        KLEINER--Samuel L. It is with great sadness that I acknowledge the passing of my teacher, my colleague and my close friend, Sam Kleiner. The impact he had on my life will always be an important part of me. I thank you, Sam, from the bottom of my heart, for all you have done for me. May you find peace and may you rest well, my friend. Ken Fisher
        KLEINER--Sam. We mourn the loss of our valued client, wise colleague and extraordinary friend, Sam Kleiner. His skills and intellect of profound heights were exceeded by his warmth and thoughtfulness. We extend our sympathies to his lovely wife, Darlene, and his family. Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker
        KLEINER--Samuel L. The Intrepid Foundation family express our sincere condolences to Darlene and to all the Kleiner family on the loss of our great friend, Sam Kleiner. We cherished Sam's friendship, advice and support and we salute Sam for his generosity and for a life well lived. Bill White, Tom Tyrrell and all at Intrepid
        KLEINER--Samuel. Sam, a good friend, gentleman, and loved by all. Our heartfelt condolences to his wonderful wife Darlene, his sons Jeremy, Benjamin, Kenneth, David and Christopher and his granddaughters Karson and Devon. He will be deeply missed by all. Arthur and Jane Rosenbloom
        KLEINER--Samuel K. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Darlene, Jeremy, Benjy, Kenneth and Farrah, David and Chris and Mollie and the entire Kleiner family. Sam was a great friend and wonderful human being and we will miss him. Marshall, Abbe and Simon Gluck
        KLEINER--Samuel. We record with sorrow the passing of Samuel Kleiner. We send our support and sympathy to Darlene and the entire Kleiner family during this difficult time, and extend our heartfelt condolences. The Staff of Rosenthal & Rosenthal, Inc.
        KLEINER -- Sam. Dearest Kleiner family, our hearts break with yours. Sam has been taken too soon. We will always be here for you. Our love of Sam and all our cherished memories of him will live on in our hearts. Judd, Wendy, Samantha, Jonathan and Joshua
        KLEINER--Sam. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member Sam Kleiner. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President
        KLEINER--Sam. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the family of our beloved friend, Sam Kleiner. Jon Kaye, The Kaplans and the Cohens
        KLEINER--Samuel K. Our deepest sympathies to Darlene and the children from his tennis partner and dear friends. Jayne & Richard Rosenhaus
        KLEINER--Sam. A true friend and a special person in my life. Never to be forgotten, may you rest in peace. Judd
      