
        TISCH--Laurence Alan. 80. Saturday, November 15. Dearly beloved husband of Billie for 55 years. Adored and adoring father of Andrew & Ann, Daniel & Bonnie, James & Merryl, Thomas & Alice. Proud and loving grandfather of Alexander & Bara, Lacey, Sarah, Charlotte, David, Michael, Alan, Jessica, Benjamin, Samuel, Maude, Joseph, Abigail, and Louise. Dear and devoted brother of Preston Robert (Bob) & Joan. Cherished uncle, relative and friend. Services Monday, November 17, at 11 AM at Central Synagogue. Interment private.
        TISCH--Laurence A. The faculty, staff and students of NYU Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of our cherished friend and Trustee, Laurence A. Tisch. A revered alumnus of New York University, Mr. Tisch earned the lasting respect and admiration of all who were fortunate to know him and benefit from his generosity. Because of his passionate belief in the importance of caring for the sick, Mr. Tisch was one of the most generous philanthropists in the history of NYU Medical Center. Today, due in large measure to his support, Tisch Hospital stands as one of the nation's finest hospitals and a place of hope, care and compassion. Mr. Tisch was also one of New York City's most distinguished citizens, a man who embodied the most enduring traditions of service to our community. He was one of our country's most successful business leaders, whose influence will be felt for many years to come. His contributions to the arts, culture and education have left an indelible mark on our city and have improved the lives of many of our fellow citizens. The entire NYU Medical Center family will be forever grateful to Mr. Tisch for his years of leadership and support. On this sad occasion, we extend our deepest sympathies to this beloved wife, Billie, his children, Andrew, Daniel, James and Thomas, his brother, Bob, and the entire Tisch family. Kenneth G. Langone, Chairman of the Board, NYU School of Medicine Foundation Board of Trustees NYU Hospitals Center Board of Trustees Robert M. Glickman, M.D., Dean, NYU School of Medicine CEO, NYU Hospitals Center Theresa A. Bischoff, President, NYU Hospitals Center
        TISCH -- Laurence. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art note with deep sadness the passing of Laurence Tisch, a dedicated benefactor and friend. He made enormous contributions to the Metropolitan Museum, both through his keen vision as Trustee (1983 to 1999) and then Trustee Emeritus, and through his personal generosity. His many gifts to the Metropolitan since the 1980s included support of the 1986 exhibition ''Treasures from the Holy Land: Ancient Art from the Israel Museum.'' And in 1987, with his brother Bob, he enhanced visitors' experiences of special exhibitions at the Metropolitan Museum immeasurably by making a donation through the Tisch Foundation for the construction of The Tisch Galleries. Thousands of museum goers each day have visited these spacious galleries in the years since--experiencing a thrilling variety of major exhibitions, from 30 centuries of Mexican art to masterworks of painting and drawing from Europe, treasures from imperial China, and Renaissance tapestries. He explained his commitment to the Metropolitan by saying that it held a special place in the life of his family, as the country's greatest art museum and at the same time as their own beloved local museum. We will greatly miss the far-reaching wisdom, passion and dedication of this great New Yorker, and offer condolences to his wife Billie and to the entire Tisch family. James R. Houghton Chairman Philippe de Montebello Director David E. McKinney President
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Board of Directors of Loews Corporation deeply mourns the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Larry Tisch, the co-founder and co-chairman of Loews. His wisdom, intellectual honesty and integrity have been an inspiration to us all. Larry Tisch was a business visionary, and his philanthropic leadership and sense of civic duty were unparalleled. With his brother, Bob, Larry built Loews Corporation into one of the largest diversified financial corporations in the United States. In 1959, he and his brother acquired a substantial interest in Loew's Theatres, Inc., which was the predecessor of Loews Corporation. Together, they built Loews into the major corporation it is today, including subsidiaries: CNA Financial Corporation, Lorillard, Inc., Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc., Bulova Corporation, Texas Gas Transmission Corporation, and the original business which grew from one small hotel they purchased in 1946, Loews Hotels. Larry's most important legacy is his significant contributions to the human services, educational, civic and charitable communities. He was a lifelong contributor to the City and the country where his family has achieved great success. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Billie, his sons, Andrew, Dan, Jim and Tom, his brother and lifelong partner, and our cochairman, Bob and wife Joan, and to the entire Tisch family.
        TISCH--Laurence A. The entire F.E.G.S. Health and Human Services family mourn the passing of Laurence A. Tisch, an exemplary leader in business and philanthropy. Larry was at the helm of a family that set the standard for civic responsibility, caring and leadership. His brilliance and commitment flow throughout this extraordinary family to benefit our Jewish and larger communities. We are fortunate to have his son, James Tisch, as a cherished member of the F.E.G.S. Board and as its past President and Chair. Jim's wife Merryl has been instrumental at UJA-Federation of New York in helping F.E.G.S. and other Federation agencies make their needs known to government. Larry and his beloved wife Billie had no limits on their caring and their sense of giving back to society and to the Jewish community here, in Israel, and around the world. We extend our deepest sympathies and our heartfelt condolences to the entire Tisch family, and our thanks to them for having shared Larry with all of us, and for the extraordinary legacy and family he leaves behind to provide leadership for generations to come. Joseph Stein Jr., Pres. & Chair Alfred P. Miller, CEO
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Tisch School of the Arts community deeply mourns the death of Laurence A. Tisch-magnificent benefactor; NYU alumnus, trustee and chairman of the NYU Board from 1978-1998; as well as a namesake of our School. While his extraordinary service to NYU over three decades has left an indelible mark throughout the University and beyond, we shall most remember the endowing gift to the Tisch School of the Arts. His generosity, as well as that of his family, established the Tisch School as one of the country's pre-eminent art schools and, through the School's graduates, has had an incalculable impact on American culture. We shall miss his vitality, warmth, and wisdom. We extend our profound sympathy to his beloved wife Billie, and to his children, Andrew, Daniel, James and Thomas, his brother, Bob, and wife, Joan, and to the entire Tisch family. Dr. Mary Schmidt Campbell, Dean, NYU's Tisch School of the Arts
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of Laurence Tisch, who with his entire family has been a longtime friend and supporter of the Jerusalem Foundation, the residents of the Eternal City of Jerusalem, the Jewish people and the state of Israel. We send our condolences to his loving and courageous wife, Billie, and to his entire family who have generously supported projects in Jerusalem over the years, including our Trustees Andrew Tisch and Merryl Tisch. The Jerusalem Foundation, Israel Teddy Kollek, Founder Dan Meridor, International Chairman Josef Vardi, Honorary Chairman Ruth Cheshin, International President The Jerusalem Foundation, Inc., New York Kenneth J. Bialkin, Acting Chairman Dorothy Kauffman, Executive Director
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Board, Faculty and Staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership extend deepest condolences to the entire Tisch family on the loss of Larry Tisch, beloved and esteemed patriarch of the very special, caring and philanthropic Tisch family. He set an example for everyone to emmulate. May his memory be a blessing and his family find a place of comfort in his legacy, which will live on through them and all the individuals and institutions with which he shared his concern for humanity and passion for the Jewish people. Thomas O. Katz, Chairman Rabbi Brad Hirschfield, Vice President Rabbi Irwin Kula, President Donna M. Rosenthal, Executive Vice Chairman
        TISCH -- Laurence. Central Synagogue of New York joins the national and international community in mourning the loss of our great, honored and supportive member, Larry Tisch. He is beloved by an incredible family which is testament to the indelible impact Larry made on those who knew him. With Billie always at his side providing strength and love, Larry created an extraordinary legacy. He made a difference in our lives. Our recollection of this remarkable man surrounded by his family at worship will be an eduring rememberance. We extend condolences to the entire family. May his memory be a blessing forever. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services are deeply saddened by the loss of Larry Tisch, who, with his wife Billie, provided extraordinary leadership to the Jewish community. Their generous support contines to benefit the families and children we serve and all of those helped by the UJA-Federation network of services. Our condolences to Billie, Alice Tisch, a JBFCS Trustee, and the entire family. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive VP and CEO
        TISCH--Laurence. The world has lost a special man. Larry lived the american dream. He and Bob were pioneers in business from the Laurel in the Pines they grew to be icons in business and philanthropy. His legacy lives on through his wife, Billie, his sons, Andrew, Jimmy, Tommy, Danny, their wives and grandchildren. He exemplified the true meaning of family: Love, unity, principle, wisdom and charity. To our dear friends Andrew and Ann we send our love and we mourn along with you and your entire family for the loss of this shining star. Love, Roberta & Ricky
        TISCH--Laurence. It is with profound sorrow that the Israel Museum family mourns the passing of a great philanthropist, visionary and friend. Together with his wife Billie, Larry Tisch helped us to acquire the Dayan archaeology collection 25 years ago, and our International Directors Circle was his brainchild. To Billie, the four boys, our Board member Merryl, and the entire family, we grieve with you. Ronnie F. Heyman President, AFIM James S. Snyder Anne and Jerome Fisher Director, Israel Museum
        TISCH--Laurence. The Board of Trustees and staff of WNYC Radio mourn the death of Laurence A. Tisch, an extraordinary leader in business, civic affairs and philanthropy, whose tremendous generosity helped to enhance the lives of many New Yorkers. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Billie, an esteemed WNYC Trustee and Chair Emerita, to his children Andrew, Daniel, James and Thomas, and to the entire Tisch family. Eduardo G. Mestre, Chair Laura R. Walker, Pres./CEO
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society mourn the death of Larry Tisch, a friend and benefactor, who with his family improved the quality of life for New Yorkers through his generous contributions to the Central Park's Tisch Children's Zoo and other projects. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Billie, WCS Trustee Andrew, and the entire Tisch family. David T. Schiff, Chairman Steven E. Sanderson, President
        TISCH--Laurence A. Physically small, he cast a giant shadow. While shadows are evanescent and transitory, his shadow relfected his huge impact in education, the arts, and community well being, as well as in business. He was a decent and moral man, and will be remembered long beyond his span of years. It was a privilege to know him. My deepest sympathy to his beloved Billie, their children and grandchildren, and the entire Tisch family. Abe Gitlow, Dean Emeritus New York University
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Officers, Directors and staff of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York mourn the loss of a true giant. As our President from 1978-1981, and in subsequent years, we were blessed by his vision and insights. He taught his children to bear the mantle of communal leadership. May Billie, Bob, and their families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ezra G. Levin, President Michael S. Miller, Exec. V.P.
        TISCH--Laurence. I worked with Larry for many years when he served on Macy's Board of Directors. He was not only the wisest man I have ever met, but one of the most decent and philanthropic. He was that rare person that comes along once in a lifetime, and, if you listen carefully you are forever changed for the better. Herb Hellman Former General Counsel and Secretary, R.H. Macy and Company, Inc.
        TISCH--Laurence A. Bob, Joan, Steve, Jamie, Laurie and Jonathan and their children feel blessed to have spent so many wonderful years with Bob's brother and our dear ''Uncle Larry.'' We learned wisdom, passion, integrity, and ''tikkun olam'' by following his example. His remarkable legacy will remain with us forever. The Preston Robert Tisch Family
        TISCH--Laurence A. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Billie, Jimmy and Merryl, Andy and Ann, Danny and Bonnie, Tommy and Alice, Bob and Joan, and the entire Tisch family. The world has lost one of its brightest shining stars, but is a much better place for his having passed this way. His life was a magnificent journey. Patricia, Alan, Adam and Josh Abramson
        TISCH--Laurence A. We extend our deepest sympathies to Billie, Jim and Merryl, Andy and Ann, Danny and Bonnie, Tommy and Alice, and your families on the loss of Larry. We knew him as a devoted father and grandfather. He was a warm and caring friend to all of us and will be lovingly remembered by our families. Halbfinger & Temel Families
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Board and Staff of the Childrens Museum of Manhattan mourn the death of Laurence A. Tisch, beloved uncle of Laurie Tisch Sussman, Honorary Chair of the Board, and extend our sincere condolences to the entire Tisch family. Andrew Ackerman, Exec Dir Mark Pearlman, Chair of the Board
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Board of Directors of the Children's Hearing Institute mourns the passing of our cherished supporter and the father of our Vice Chairman. We extend heart felt sympathies to Billie, Andrew, Bob and the entire Tisch family. Leonard Boxer, Chairman Simon C. Parisier, Medical Director
        TISCH--Laurence. In his role as then Chair of the NYU Finance Committee, he was instrumental in the preservation of the nonprofit, cultural use of the Town Hall on West 43rd Street. Our Trustees extend deepest sympathy to the family and all who will miss him very much. Marvin Leffler, President Town Hall Foundation
        TISCH--Laurence A. A gentleman, a dear friend, a leader in our community. Our sincerest condolences to Billie, Andrew, Daniel, James, Thomas and the entire Tisch family. Irving Schneider Lynn C. Schneider Mindy Schneider Lesser Michael Lesser
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Foundation for Ethnic Understanding mourns the passing of our generous and dedicated supporter. Heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Marc Schneier, Pres. Russell Simmons, Secretary Lawrence Kopp, Exec. Dir.
        TISCH--Laurence. The Board and staff of City Parks Foundation mourn the passing of Laurence Tisch, father of our Board President, Andrew. We send our support and condolences to the entire Tisch family during this difficult time.
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Mt. Sinai Children's Center Foundation extends our heartfelt condolences to our Co-Chairmen, James and Merryl Tisch, on the passing of their beloved father and father-inlaw.
        TISCH -- Laurence A. We mourn the loss of someone we've always greatly admired and regarded as a mentor. Rob and Suzanne Davidow Larry and Cindy Sipkin
        TISCH--Laurence. We join with all who were touched by his good deeds to mourn the passing of Larry Tisch. Condolences to the entire Tisch family. Leon and Marsha Wagner
        TISCH--Laurence A. Talking with you always made the day. We will miss you and extend love and sympathy to your entire family. John and Betty Levin
        TISCH--Laurence Alan. Saturday, November 15. Pop, our strength and our courage. You're in our hearts forever. Alex, Lacey and Susan
      