
        KLEINER -- Sam. Fisher Brothers mourns the passing of our dear counsel, Sam Kleiner. For over two decades, he was our invaluable partner, confidant and most importantly, great friend. Beside being a skilled and knowledgeable attorney, Sam was an astute, fair-minded businessman, profoundly respected by all. Our hearts go out to his wife, Darlene, his five sons, Jeremy, Benjamin, Kenneth, David and Christopher, his two granddaughters, Karson and Devon, as well as his mother, Betty Kleiner, and his sister, Hannah Weise. Sam was taken from us all too soon. His warmth, gentleness, wisdom and pure sweetness will never be forgotten. Fisher Brothers Arnold Fisher Richard L. Fisher Ken Fisher Steven Fisher Winston C. Fisher
        KLEINER--Samuel K., 61 years old, died peacefully on November 18, 2003 after a valiant fight. Beloved and devoted husband, father, grandfather, son, brother, uncle, brother-in-law and friend. He was a highly respected real estate attorney, serving as General Counsel to Fisher Brothers for the past 25 years. His zest for life was expressed by his devotion to his family, his passion for tennis and cinema and his commitment to his friends. He is survived by his adored and adoring wife, Darlene Diamond Kleiner, his beloved sons Kenneth (Farrah), David, Christopher (Mollie), Jeremy and Benjamin, his loved granddaughters Carson and Devin. Cherished son of Betty and the late Sidney Kleiner. He will be loved and missed by all that knew him. Service will be held at Central Synagogue (55th and Lexington Avenue), Thursday, November 20, 2003 at 10:30AM.
        KLEINER--Samuel K. To our Grandpa Sam, we will miss you and wish you could have seen us grow up. Love, your girls Carson and Devin
        KLEINER--Samuel. The partners of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP mourn the untimely passing of Sam Kleiner, a loving husband and father, and a most loyal and dedicated counsel to our clients and friends at Fisher Brothers. We extend our deepest condolences to Sam's mother Betty, wife Darlene, his cherished children Jeremy, Benji, Kenneth and Farrah, Christopher and David, and to everyone at Fisher Brothers who will miss Sam's wisdom, advice and passion for life. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP
        KLEINER--Sam. Our hearts grieve with Darlene, Jeremy, Benjy, Ken, Chris and David. Sam was a friend who comes along rarely in a lifetime. We were lucky to have forged a special bond during the last year of his life. We will always cherish his warmth, humor and zest of living. Sam was a movie buff par excellence with a wicked back hand. He was larger than life and will leave an irreplaceable void. Nanette, George, Robert, Michael and Emily
        KLEINER--Samuel K. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, Sam Kleiner, loving husband of Darlene and devoted father of Jeremy, Benjamin, Kenneth, David and Christopher. We will sorely miss his warmth, counsel and great sense of fun. We are hopeful that his family will find the strength to overcome this terrible tragedy as Sam would have wished. Sandy, Dick, Emily, Caroline & Katherine Rippe
        KLEINER--Samuel. You and Darlene have been an integral part of our lives for 30 years. You were a true gentleman--respected by all your peers, a devoted family man, an avid tennis player and a great friend. You loved and appreciated your wonderful life--your adoring wife, Darlene, and your five magnificent sons. We will miss you forever. Ruth, Fred, Evan & Jason Schwalbe
        KLEINER--Samuel. We will miss Sam beyond our ability to express in words and shall treasure the memory of the wonderful times we have shared together. We extend our sincerest condolences to his mother Betty, his wife Darlene, his children Jeremy, Benji, Kenneth and Farrah, Christopher and David on the devastating loss of a most loving husband, dedicated father, and loyal friend. Lorraine and Herbert Podell
        KLEINER--Samuel K. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Samuel Kleiner, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Darlene, and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        KLEINER--Samuel K. In memory of our dear friend Sam. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Darlene; sons, Benji, Jeremy, Kenny, Chris, David; mother, Betty; sister, Hannah; and the entire family. We will remember Sam always with love and affection, a generous and loving man, husband, father, son, brother, uncle and friend. The Liebmans, Rosalie, Alan, Georgia and Mariel
        KLEINER--Samuel. We are devastated over the loss of our cherished friend Sam. A super mensch with a unique zest for life, Sam's kindness, generosity and devotion touched the lives of so many of us who were blessed to know him. We send our most loving and heartfelt condolences to Darlene and his entire family. Fran and Victor
        KLEINER--Sam. We shall miss our wonderful friend, Sam, a truly outstanding individual. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to Darlene, Jeremy, Benjamin and family. Sam's great judgement, idealism and dedication will always be remembered. May you rest in peace. Joel, Ronny, Sam, and Evan Siegal
        KLEINER--Sam. We have lost a good friend. Our condolences to his loving wife, Darlene, and his sons, Kenneth, Christopher, David, Jeremy and Benjamin. May the memories of his warm smile, sense of humor and, above all, love of his family sustain you, especially during this time of grief. Sheila & Richard Schlesinger
        KLEINER--Samuel. The Partners of The Lansco Corporation mourn the untimely passing of Sam Kleiner with whom we have had a wonderful business relationship over the past 20 years. Our sincerest condolences to the entire Kleiner family and to Fisher Brothers on this irreplaceable loss.
        KLEINER -- Samuel. We mourn the premature loss of our cherished and courageous friend. We will miss our dinner/movie nights and Sam's wonderful laugh. Our heartfelt sympathy to Darlene, Jeremy, Benji, Ken and Farrah, Chris and David and the entire Kleiner family. The Haber Family
        KLEINER--Samuel. Sam, a good friend, gentleman, and loved by all. Our heartfelt condolences to his wonderful wife Darlene, his sons Jeremy, Benjamin, Kenneth, David and Christopher and his granddaughters Karson and Devon. He will be deeply missed by all. Arthur and Jane Rosenbloom
        KLEINER--Samuel K. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Darlene, Jeremy, Benjy, Kenneth and Farrah, David and Chris and Mollie and the entire Kleiner family. Sam was a great friend and wonderful human being and we will miss him. Marshall, Abbe and Simon Gluck
        KLEINER--Sam. We are deeply saddened to hear the untimely passing of Sam. We express our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. He will be missed by all that were honored to know him. All our love Robi Kellerman Judith and Jacqueline Renton
        KLEINER--Samuel. We record with sorrow the passing of Samuel Kleiner. We send our support and sympathy to Darlene and the entire Kleiner family during this difficult time, and extend our heartfelt condolences. The Staff of Rosenthal & Rosenthal, Inc.
        KLEINER -- Sam. Dearest Kleiner family, our hearts break with yours. Sam has been taken too soon. We will always be here for you. Our love of Sam and all our cherished memories of him will live on in our hearts. Judd, Wendy, Samantha, Jonathan and Joshua
        KLEINER--Sam. We will profoundly miss our dear friend Sam, wise, compassionate and chivalrous. His brilliance as an athlete was only matched by his grace and kindness to everyone he knew. Suzanne & Michael Turkewitz
        KLEINER--Sam. You will be in our hearts forever. Darlene, Kenneth & Farrah, Carson and Devin, David, Chris and Mollie, Jeremy, Benjy and Betty--we share in your loss. Love, Nina, Lenny and family
        KLEINER--Samuel. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the family of our friend Sam, a beautiful man of warmth, intelligence and integrity. Doug, Nanette, Noah and Ethan Kass
        KLEINER -- Sam. Dearest Darlene, we will miss Sam and his warmth, kindness and sense of humor. Our hearts go out to you and the family. We are always here for you. Marilyn and Stuart Shapiro
        KLEINER--Sam. Our heartfelt sympathy to Darlene, Jeremy, Benji and the entire Kleiner family on Sam's passing. We will miss him. Avis & Alan Victor
        KLEINER--Samuel K. Our deepest sympathies to Darlene and the children from his tennis partner and dear friends. Jayne & Richard Rosenhaus
        KLEINER--Sam. A true friend and a special person in my life. Never to be forgotten, may you rest in peace. Judd
      