
        SCHINDLER--Joe P. On November 20, 2003 at the age of 76. Beloved father, grandfather, son and friend passed away after a long and valiant fight with multiple myeloma. Born 1927 in Berlin into a prosperous merchant family. In the mid 1930s the decision to escape the Nazi government, the family started on an odyssey that would take them from Antwerp, Belgium to Nice, France trying to stay a step ahead of the pursuing German forces. This flight, which would last several years, was punctuated with local schooling that allowed the young Schindler to become fluent in French as well as German. After Nice became untenable the family was able to enter the safety of America. Mr. Schindler finished high school in the U.S. and entered Brooklyn Polytech in 1945. Shortly after starting his freshman year he was drafted into the U.S. Army where he served with distinction in Korea. After his release from the service, Joe Schindler returned to Brooklyn Polytech and received his BEE degree with honors in 1950. He then entered the electronics industry, earned his Masters degree in electronics engineering at night, and over the years became a world renowned expert in the field of microwave components and test equipment. As one of the few trilingual experts in the field of this new technology his advice was sought by companies all over the U.S., Western Europe and Japan. Along the way he was a top executive for NARDA Microwave and General Microwave in New York, as well as President of Polarad Electronics also of New York. In later years he founded Schindler Communications in Great Neck, NY that supplied esoteric microwave components to European electronic companies charged with maintaining military microwave systems. 43 resident of Great Neck. Survived by his children, Deborah, Rachel and Aaron, son-in-law Todd Thaler and granddaughter Emma Thaler. We will deeply miss his guidance, leadership, strength, wisdom and love. Funeral service Sunday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Joseph Michaeli Multiple Myeloma Research Fund at the New York Presbyterian Hospital, Weill Cornell Medical Center, attention Ruben Niesvizky, M.D. or American Jewish Committee.
      