
        SMYTHE--Sheila Mary. Suddenly on November 4, 2003. Devoted daughter of Patrick and Molly (nee Gonley) Smythe. Dear friend of Anne E. Schneiders. She is also survived by a loving family in Ireland and England. She was a caring, compassionate woman who was always ready to help anyone in need. At the time of her death, she was Executive Vice President of New York Medical College and Dean of its School of Public Health. She had previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield and as Chief Health Policy Advisor for the U.S. General Accounting Office. Ms. Smythe had a passion for education and public health, with a special interest in children. She served as a member or chair of numerous boards and advisory councils throughout her career, including Manhattanville College, Dominican Academy, the March of Dimes, Catholic Charities USA, the Astor Home for Children, the Dominican Sisters of Hope (Newburgh), the Dominican Sisters of Saint Mary of the Springs (Columbus, OH.), the Visiting Nurse Service of Westchester, and Mutual of America Life Insurance Company. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Thursday and Friday, 3-5 and 7-9PM. Mass of Resurrection Saturday, November 8th, 10AM, Saint Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexington Ave at 66 St. Interment Cedar Hill Cemetery, Washington, D.C. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that contributions be made to the School of Public Health Scholarship Fund at New York Medical College.
        SMYTHE--Sheila M. New York Medical College is stunned and grieved by the sudden loss of our executive vice president and dean of the School of Public Health, Sheila Smythe. Her life was an extraordinary example of dedicated service to education and public health. Her leadership and influence among key decision-makers were far-reaching, and are only a part of the remarkable legacy she leaves to New York Medical College and the health and education communities. Her determination, dedication and vision provided the driving force behind the school's achievement of accreditation just weeks before her death. A professor of health policy and economics, Ms. Smythe joined the college in 1990 as dean of the Graduate School of Health Sciences. She also served as president of the Partnership for a Healthy Population, a center for scholarly focus on community health improvement issues. She had just been appointed to a national committee of educators working in collaboration with the Centers for Disease Control to promote preventive research. She was one of 15 public health leaders nationwide called to serve on the Committee on Educating Public Health Professionals for the 21st Century, appointed by the Institute of Medicine. We will miss her wisdom, wit and ingenuity. We extend heartfelt condolences to her loved ones. Visitors may call on Thursday and Friday, 3-5 p.m. and 7-9 p.m. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Mass of the Resurrection on Saturday 10 a.m. at The Church of St. Vincent Ferrer, 869 Lexington Avenue at 66th Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in her name to the School of Public Health Scholarship Fund at New York Medical College, Valhalla, N.Y. 10595. Ronald F. Poe, Chairman Board of Trustees Rev. Msgr. Harry C. Barrett President and CEO Ralph A. O Connell, M.D. Provost and Dean School of Medicine
        SMYTHE--Sheila Mary. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors together with all of its officers and employees mourn the passing of Sheila M. Smythe, an esteemed member of our Board of Directors. Sheila Smythe served on Mutual of America's Board since April 1991, participating on the Audit, Investment, Long-Range Planning and Nominating Committees. During her tenure as a director, she contributed to the decisions that led to the Company's growth and current position of financial strength. She always remained focused on the importance of Mutual of America's mission to serve the retirement needs of small employers in both the not-forprofit and for-profit worlds. Ms. Smythe's work as an educator and a public health administrator, including as president and CEO of Empire BlueCross BlueShield and as the chief health policy advisor to the U.S. General Accounting Office, significantly improved the quality and delivery of health care in this country. Her successful establishment of the Graduate School of Health Sciences of New York Medical College is further testament to Ms. Smythe's accomplishments. Her service on the boards of numerous charitable and educational organizations further exemplifies her dedication to public service, which was appropriately recognized by Manhattanville College when they established the Sheila Mary Smythe Award in 1997. Her sudden death leaves a void in our hearts. We will miss Ms. Smythe's professional insights as well as her warmth and friendship. Our sincere condolences to her niece, Sheila P. Gonley, and to her many friends and loved ones. William J. Flynn Chairman of the Board Thomas J. Moran President & CEO Mutual of America Life Insurance Company
        SMYTHE--Sheila Mary. The March of Dimes mourns the loss of Sheila Mary Smythe, one of our most dedicated national volunteer leaders, who passed away on November 4, 2003. A volunteer since 1985, she provided thoughtful advice and governance. Miss Smythe began her commitment to the March of Dimes mission in 1985 when she served as Chair of the Public Affairs Committee of its Greater New York Chapter. In 1989, Miss Smythe was elected to the National Board of Trustees of the March of Dimes. She served on the Board's Executive Committee from 1991 until 2000, and chaired the Public Affairs Committee from 1990 through 1997. She also served on the Board's Finance and Audit, Pensions Investment, and Nominating Committees, serving as Chair of the last in 1998 and 1999. In 1998, she was elected Secretary of the National Board. She faithfully and diligently fulfilled her tenyear service to the Board in 2000. At the time of her death, Miss Smythe was an Honorary Trustee, and Chair of the Public Policy Advisory Council. Her quality commitment to the March of Dimes mission of protecting and improving the health of children never ceased. Miss Smythe had a long and distinguished career in public health and education, serving both in government and the private sector. She was Executive Vice President and Dean of the School of Public Health, New York Medical College, Valhalla, N.Y., and Professor of Health Policy and Economics there. Previously she served as Chief Health Policy Advisor for the U.S. General Accounting Office. To her colleagues, loved ones and friends, the Board, volunteers and staff of the March of Dimes extend our deepest sympathies.
        SMYTHE--Sheila Mary. The faculty, students, alumni, and staff of Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health mourn the sudden passing of our alumna and friend, Sheila Mary Smythe, MS '56. At the time of her passing, Sheila was executive vice president of New York Medical College, and dean of its School of Public Health. Prior to that she served as president and chief operating officer of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield. Her vision and commitment to education and to healthcare were legendary and we will miss her friendship and steadfast support. We join with her many friends and colleagues in extending our sympathy to her niece, Sheila P. Gonley. Allan Rosenfield, MD dean
        SMYTHE--Sheila Mary. The Dominican Academy family mourns the sudden death of Sheila Mary Smythe, the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees. The impact of her leadership, wisdom and dedication to Dominican Academy and the education of the young women here will always be remembered. Our prayers go out from the entire school community. Donations to the Board of Trustees Scholarship Fund may be made in her name to Dominican Academy. Dominican Academy Board of Trustees Administration, Faculty, Students, Parents, Alumnae
        SMYTHE--Sheila M. The Staff and Board of Directors of Visiting Nurse Services in Westchester mourn the loss of Sheila M. Smythe, Chair of Visiting Nurse Services in Westchester's Board of Directors. Ms. Smythe's commitment to excellence in public heath and to high quality community-based home care services will leave a legacy integral to her role as educator and friend to our organization. We extend our deepest condolences to her colleagues, friends and loved ones. Carol L. Weber, Pres./CEO Karen A. Kelley, Vice Chair
        SMYTHE--Sheila. The members of the Health Care Executive Forum mourn the passing of our dear colleague and President. Sheila's leadership, wisdom, vision and most importantly, friendship, will be sorely missed and always remembered. Barbara Green Vice President
        SMYTHE--Sheila M. AMDeC, LLC, mourns the loss of Sheila M. Smythe, long-standing Board Member and advocate for New York's medical research institutions. We extend our deepest sympathy and sincerest condolences to her beloved friends and colleagues.
      