
        LEVIEN--Donna Joy. Love changes everything, how we live and how we die. You lived to the fullest. You battled courageously. Your love, smile and warmth will be missed by so many. Our hearts are with Phil, Jeffrey, Ivy, Grayson, Mark, Joanne, Ron and Ellen. Love, Roni, Greg, Kate, Auden, Sandy and Jarret
        LEVIEN--Donna. On behalf of our entire organization, the partners of Newmark & Company Real Estate Inc. wish to express profound sorrow to our friend of many years, Phil Levien, on the untimely loss of his beloved wife Donna. Our thoughts are with you and your family. May her memory be a blessing.
        LEVIEN--Donna Joy. We mourn the passing of our dear friend Donna. Your warmth, wit, wisdom and unique gift for friendship enriched our lives. Our hearts go out to Phil, Jeffrey, Ivy, Mark, Joanne, Gray, Ron and Ellen. Love, Carol, Joel, Andrew and Marcie
        LEVIEN--Donna. Always a beautiful smile and an infectious laugh, that is how we will remember you. Our heartfelt condolences to Phil, Jeffrey, Mark, Ivy, Joanne, Gray and the entire Levien and Kisner families. Carol and Richard Kalikow
        LEVIEN -- Donna. From young to old, you have truly touched everyone's life. We will all miss your vibrant personality, warm heart and unique sense of style. Love, Shari, Larry, Jayson, Logan
        LEVIEN--Donna. She will be missed by all of us and always remembered for the great times we had together. Our deepest sympathy to Phil and his family. Gerri & Marty Miller
        LEVIEN--Donna. Donna Joy, your friend Gerri will miss you today, tomorrow and always. Life without a friend like you will never be the same. Love you my friend. Gerri
        LEVIEN--Donna Joy. Of Kings Point, NY. We mourn the loss of our sister-in-law, Donna. Our deepest sympathy to Philip and his family. Love, Barry and Jane and Family
        LEVIEN--Donna Joy. Donna, You will be missed by all of us. Your indomitable spirit and warmth will shine in our lives forever. Marion and Jerry Sussman
      