
        COHN--Seymour. With deep sorrow, the family announces the passing of Seymour Cohn. A friend to so many and looked up to by all those whose lives were touched by his boldness and imagination. Services will be held Sunday, November 16, 2003, 9AM, at Schwartz Brothers - Jeffer Memorial Chapels, 114-03 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills, NY. 718-263-7600
        COHN--Seymour. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of Seymour Cohn, valued friend, generous benefactor, and life trustee. A successful real estate investor, Mr. Cohn was also a trustee emeritus of the NYU Real Estate Institute. He was elected to the Medical Center Board as a life trustee in 2001. Mr. Cohn's nephew, Stephen B. Colvin, M.D., is Chief of the Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery at NYU Medical Center. In honor of his nephew's contributions to pediatric and adult cardiac surgery, Mr. Cohn made generous gifts to the Medical Center's Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, including an endowed professorship that will bear his name in perpetuity. Mr. Cohn's dedication and strong support earned the enduring respect and admiration of his fellow trustees and the entire Medical Center community, and he will be deeply missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Kenneth G. Langone, Chairman, Boards of Trustees NYU School of Medicine Foundation NYU Hospitals Center Robert M. Glickman, M.D., Dean, NYU School of Medicine CEO, NYU Hospitals Center Theresa A. Bischoff President, NYU Hospitals Center
        COHN--Seymour. On Thursday, November 13, 2003, peacefully in his sleep. The officers and employees of Sylvan Lawrence Company, Inc. mourn the loss of our beloved Chairman, Co-Founder and colleague. We extend our deepest condolences to his loving family. His brilliance, devotion, guidance and ingenuity was legendary in the real estate industry for over 70 years. Together with his late brother, Sylvan Lawrence, Seymour Cohn owned over 100 commercial properties primarily in Lower Manhattan and Downtown Brooklyn. The last of these properties, consisting of 111 Eighth Avenue, 100 William Street, 95 Wall Street and 99 Wall Street, was sold as a package in January, 1998. A dear friend and invaluable colleague, Seymour Cohn will be sorely missed Charles L. Goldenberg, President & CEO Sylvan Lawrence Company, Inc.
        COHN -- Seymour. Dearest friend and beloved colleague. Your love of life, devotion, unique perspective and glorious sense of humor will be forever remembered. We were indeed privileged to have been together for so very many precious years. Our memories of wonderful times will always remain. Thank you for being so much a part of our lives. Our heartfelt sympathy to your family and all who loved you. Victoria and Charles L. Goldenberg
      