
        van DUUREN--Benjamin, a pioneering cancer researcher who identified cancer-causing chemicals in cigarettes and was in part responsible for the warning label on cigarettes, died suddenly in Manhattan on Thursday, November 13. He was 77. van Duuren became a world-renowned cancer researcher during his 36-year career at New York University Medical Center in New York. Soon after scientists established cigarette smoking as a major cause of human lung cancer in the 50's, van Duuren began fractionating cigarette tars and isolated 21 arcmatic hydrocarbons, 6 of which were shown to cause cancer. In the 60's, with his research group, he elucidated many important ''structure activity relationships'' not only of chemicals found in cigarette tars but those found in many classes of cancer-causing chemicals used in industrial processes. His research made it possible to predict which chemicals might be carcinogens based on their molecular structure. Soon after the discovery of the structure of DNA he extended his studies to structure activity relationships with chemical carcinogens and animal DNA. Dr. van Duuren was born in South Africa and received his Sc.D. (Doctor of Natural Sciences) in chemistry from the University of South Africa. He did post-doctoral research with renowned chemist Roger Adams at the University of Illinois and then with Nobel Laureate Donald Cram at UCLA. In 1955 he joined Institute of Environmental Medicine of New York University Medical Center as an instructor and later became Professor and the Director of the Laboratory of Organic Chemistry in Carcinogenesis. He retired in 1991. van Duuren was a consultant and served numerous agencies engaged in cancer research including the National Institutes of Health, National Research Council, National Academy of Sciences, National Science Foundation, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Nutrition Foundation, the Department of Justice, and the World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer. van Duuren is survived by his wife, Satloo Gurbaxani. A memorial service will be held in 2004.
      