
        COHN -- Seymour. Beloved son of the late Charles Cohn and Bella Cohen Cohn, adored brother of the late Mildred Cohn, Maurice Cohn, Irene Colvin, Pearl C. Miller and Sylvan Lawrence, devoted husband of the late Estelle G. Cohn, cherished father of Paula Hallman and Marc Cohn, revered brother-in-law of Leon and Joan Grossman and Alice Lawrence, beloved grandfather of Bridget Hallman, Samantha Hallman, Ellen and Corey Menscher and Daniel Cohn, respected father-in-law of Eric Hallman and Melanie Cohn and uncle or great-uncle to each and every member of the family. Even in a large family noted for its accomplishments, Seymour was an over-achiever. He was an outstanding athlete throughout high school and college; his favorite sports being football and basketball. In what would become the hallmark of his life, Seymour met every challenge he faced head-on, with his eyes open regardless of any pitfalls or consequences. Seymour began his long career in the real estate business at any early age, working for his late uncle Elias A. Cohen, one of the great real estate men of his generation. After World War II ended, Seymour, newly married, decided to open his own firm. Soon after, he decided to team up with his younger brother Sylvan, beginning a uniquely close working relationship which lasted until Sylvan's passing in 1981. It was said the two lived and breathed real estate. In the 1950's, at the end of each long day, they would continue to talk real estate during the long drive home. In what will surely be remembered as one of the great New York success stories of the last hundred years, the two brothers, who started with nothing and labored tirelessly for almost 30 years, had amassed a real estate portfolio of over 100 properties, located mainly in downtown and midtown Manhattan and in Brooklyn. Over the course of sixty-odd years, the great names in real estate, people who will be remembered for years to come, made deals with, knew and respected Seymour Cohn. Many will remember Seymour for his tenacity and determination. His great intelligence, imagination and ingenuity were always balanced by a keen sense of the practical. Always thinking about the future, Seymour maintained an ever-watchful eye on the present. For over 40 years, Seymour devoted himself to a sport he so enjoyed. Like a real estate deal done right, nothing pleased him as much as watching a win by one of his homebred Thoroughbreds. As he did in the real estate business, Seymour's tireless and unflagging effort made over the years, earned him the respect of everyone with a true understanding of New York horse racing. Despite his success, Seymour particularly enjoyed life's simple joys, especially his family, with whom he kept in constant touch. Seymour relished his summers spent at Tranquillity Camp, started by his late uncle Elias A. Cohen in 1919 as a summer haven in the country for deserving children with outstanding academic records. Carrying on the family's long-held belief in helping others in the spirit of ''Noblesse Oblige,'' Seymour devoted an enormous amount of time and energy to his beloved Tranquillity. As the special man he was, Seymour's philanthropies, both great and small, were as varied as the people whose lives he touched. Seymour was one of the original founders of the North Shore Synagogue in Syosset, NY. In later years he was devoted to the restoration of the Eldridge Street Synagogue on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. These were only a few of his most enduring qualities. Seymour will forever be remembered in our hearts for his ever-ready smile and that twinkle in his eye, maybe even a wink. The passing of his larger-than-life presence has left a void which can never be filled. Services will be held on Sunday, November 16, 2003, 9 AM, at Schwartz Brothers - Jeffer Memorial Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills, NY, (718) 263-7600. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Tranquillity Camp Inc. or the Charles Cohn Foundation Inc. would be appreciated.
        COHN--Seymour. The Officers and Directors of the Elias A. Cohen Foundation, Inc. mourn the passing of Seymour Cohn who served as Vice President with great ability and loyalty for so many years. Seymour earned the respect of every Board member over a lifetime of achievement in service to his late uncle's good deeds. In demeanor and action, Seymour exemplified the character, spirit and determination which were the hallmark of Elias A. Cohen, in the spirit of ''Noblesse Oblige''. Both of these truly great men were not often wrong--and they knew it. Seymour had the courage of his conviction and as a strong leader didn't expect everyone to agree with him. Seymour was not a flash in the pan. His courage, shown every day over the decades, is a reminder to face every challenge and see it through. This is the standard that we will continue to strive for.
        COHN--Seymour. On Thursday, November 13, 2003, peacefully in his sleep. The officers and employees of Sylvan Lawrence Company, Inc. mourn the loss of our beloved Chairman, Co-Founder and colleague. We extend our deepest condolences to his loving family. His brilliance, devotion, guidance and ingenuity was legendary in the real estate industry for over 70 years. Together with his late brother, Sylvan Lawrence, Seymour Cohn owned over 100 commercial properties primarily in Lower Manhattan and Downtown Brooklyn. The last of these properties, consisting of 111 Eighth Avenue, 100 William Street, 95 Wall Street and 99 Wall Street, was sold as a package in January, 1998. A dear friend and invaluable colleague, Seymour Cohn will be sorely missed Charles L. Goldenberg, President & CEO Sylvan Lawrence Company, Inc.
        COHN--Seymour. The Officers, Board of Directors, Staff and all the children of Tranquillity Camp are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed Vice President, Seymour Cohn. Before there even was a Tranquillity, Seymour was there--in the summer of 1911. He had many stories to tell about the happy summers he and members of the family and so many others shared at their beloved Tranquillity. Throughout his life his love for Tranquillity never diminished. Our beautiful new Pearl C. Miller Sports Center would not be a reality today without his unfailing generosity. Seymour, you will remain in our thoughts and in our hearts forever. Our deepest sympathy goes out to his entire family. Contributions to Tranquillity Camp Inc. in Seymour's memory will be greatly appreciated. Our address is 170 Tranquillity Road, Earlton, NY 12058.
        COHN -- Seymour. Dearest friend and beloved colleague. Your love of life, devotion, unique perspective and glorious sense of humor will be forever remembered. We were indeed privileged to have been together for so very many precious years. Our memories of wonderful times will always remain. Thank you for being so much a part of our lives. Our heartfelt sympathy to your family and all who loved you. Victoria and Charles L. Goldenberg
        COHN--Seymour. The Tranquillity Alumni mourns the passing of our Chairman Emeritus and Benefactor, Seymour Cohn. Seymour loved Tranquillity Camp and was a fervent fundraiser for the Alumni. He was the driving force behind the building of the Pearl C. Miller Sports Center. A kind and generous man, he will be missed. The Tranquillity Alumni
        COHN -- Seymour. Beloved father and grandfather. One of the most special people this world has ever seen. The twinkle in your eye and your words of wisdom will always have a special place in our hearts. Love, Mark & Shari Bosswick
        COHN--Seymour. We mourn the passing of our devoted patron and lifelong supporter, patriarch of the Cohn-Cohen families. His memory will remain a blessing. Wall Street Synagogue Rabbi Meyer Hager
        COHN--Seymour. I mourn the passing of my dear friend. I will always cherish the memory of our many years together. Rest in peace. Anita Pollak
        COHN -- Seymour. The Charles Cohn Foundation Inc. mourns the passing of Seymour Cohn. His vision and foresight will be sorely missed.
      