
        TISCH--Laurence Alan. 80. Saturday, November 15. Dearly beloved husband of Billie for 55 years. Adored and adoring father of Andrew & Ann, Daniel & Bonnie, James & Merryl, Thomas & Alice. Proud and loving grandfather of Alexander & Bara, Lacey, Sarah, Charlotte, David, Michael, Alan, Jessica, Benjamin, Samuel, Maude, Joseph, Abigail, and Louise. Dear and devoted brother of Preston Robert (Bob) & Joan. Cherished uncle, relative and friend. Services Monday, November 17, at 11 AM at Central Synagogue. Interment private.
        TISCH--Laurence A. The entire New York University community deeply mourns the death of Laurence A. Tisch, esteemed alumnus, member of the Board of Trustees since 1966, and Chairman of the Board from 1978-1998. An 18-year-old cum laude graduate of the School of Commerce, he achieved eminence in business, civic affairs, philanthropy, and education. With courage, steadfastness and foresight, he led NYU through its transformation from a regional school into a world-class research institution. During his distinguished tenure as Chair of the Board, the university embraced the greatest growth and development since its founding in 1831; raising $1.8 billion; endowing over 140 professorships; and renovating and constructing numerous classrooms, laboratories, and other facilities. A singular and superb leader, he was also a principal benefactor, whose magnificent generosity, and that of his family, ranged across schools and disciplines to include the endowing gift for the Tisch School of the Arts; construction of Tisch Hall, home of the Leonard N. Stern School of Business, named in honor of his parents, Al and Sadie; the Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management, named for his brother Bob; the Bronfman Center for Jewish Life; and the Tisch Hospital at the NYU Medical Center. For more than three decades of extraordinary service to New York University and for his instrumental role in conceiving and bringing to fruition many of its achievements, New York University conferred upon him its highest nonacademic honor, the University Medal. Also a recipient of the Albert Gallatin Medal, Laurence Tisch leaves an indelible mark on our institution and a community that will cherish the memory of this great yet humble man, who remained faithful to his city, country, and first and foremost to his wonderful family. We express our profound and deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Billie, and to his children, Andrew, Daniel, James and Thomas, his brother, Bob, and wife, Joan, and to the entire Tisch family. Martin Lipton, Chair NYU Board of Trustees John Sexton, President NYU
        TISCH--Laurence. The leadership, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities note with deep sorrow the loss of Larry Tisch, patriarch of one of this generation's most civic-minded and philanthropic families. Larry headed a family dedicated to helping enhance the lives of people in NYC, in Israel and around the world. His compassion left a lasting footprint in NYC, where his vision, generosity and leadership shaped educational, cultural and healthcare institutions across the city. His caring and commitment reached into every community, and his special love for Israel and the Jewish community was deep and constant. A founder of United Jewish Appeal, one of the predecessor organizations to United Jewish Communities, Larry played a pivotal role on the international Jewish philanthropic stage. His contributions greatly influenced recent Jewish history, and helped assure support for the most vulnerable. Whether providing leadership in mounting campaigns to rescue imperiled Ethiopian Jews and bring them to safe haven in Israel, or leading in the movement to free Soviet Jewry, Larry consistently demonstrated his fierce dedication to meeting urgent Jewish needs. Larry's extraordinary leadership and humanitarian spirit were deeply cherished and will be sorely missed. Yet our community continues to be blessed by the caring support of his wife and lifelong partner, Billie, and through the legacy of caring he leaves behind in his sons, James, Chairman of United Jewish Communities, Andrew, past UJA Campaign Chairman, Daniel and Thomas. To Billie, to his sons and to their respective wives, Merryl, Ann, Bonnie and Alice, and his brother and lifelong business partner Bob, and his wife Joan, and the entire Tisch family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. May they all be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Robert Goldberg Chairman of the Executive Committee Morton B. Plant Treasurer Stephen H. Hoffman President and CEO
        TISCH--Laurence A. (Larry). The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Laurence A. Tisch, a friend, beloved leader, and giant in the world of philanthropy. Larry's unparalleled support of the state of Israel, the Jewish people, education, the arts, and health care will have an impact for generations. A leader at UJA-Federation, Larry served as president of United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York in 1973 and 1974. At the outset of the Yom Kippur War, he led the merger between the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and UJA. He was also president of the Jewish Community Relations Council, an honorary member of the Board of Directors of UJA-Federation, and a trustee emeritus of the Jewish Communal Fund. Larry exemplified communal responsibility, and his legacy lives on through his family. His wife, Billie, was president of the Federation from 1980-1983 and is an honorary member of UJA-Federation's Board of Directors. His son James served as president of UJA-Federation and chairs United Jewish Communities and the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations. His son Andrew served as campaign chair of UJA-Federation and is an honorary national chair of the Jewish Leadership Forum and president of the Jewish Communal Fund. His son Daniel serves on our Wall Street Senior Investment Advisory Committee. His son Thomas is an honorary chairman of the board of the Henry Kaufmann Camp Grounds. Our community mourns Larry's loss and extends our deepest sympathies to his wife, Billie; to his sons and their wives: Andrew and Ann, Daniel and Bonnie, James and Merryl, Thomas and Alice; to his brother and lifelong business partner, Bob, and his wife, Joan; to his grandchildren; and to the entire Tisch family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. VP and CEO
        TISCH--Laurence. The Englander family extends our deepest condolences to the beautifully devoted family of Laurence Tisch. His brilliance and devotion to causes was legendary. As close friends, we feel your loss and mourn with you.
      