
        McLEAN -- William Henry. Born April 15, 1911, in NYC, died of natural causes on Monday, October 27, 2003. Resided in Short Hills, NJ. Husband for 53 years of Vesta Tittmann McLean. Father of William H. McLean Jr. and Eugene B. McLean. Also survived by four grandchildren and a sister Dorothy Baucom. Graduated from Collegiate School, NYC. Graduated from Stevens Institute of Technology in 1931, with a BS in mechanical engineering. Harvard University Master of Science, 1933, MBA 1934, and Doctor of Commercial Science, 1938. He was a member of the faculties of Harvard and Stevens. During WWII he directed the research and development program of the Office of the Quartermaster General for which he was awarded the Legion of Merit. Dr. McLean then began a career that led to executive positions with National Can Company, Dewey & Almy Chemical Company and Merck and Company, Inc. He was president of the Merck Chemical Division and Director of Merck & Co, Ltd, the company's Canadian subsidiary. In 1964 Dr. McLean returned to Stevens and subsequently became Dean of the College, acting President and Trustee. He was a member of Tau Pi and Sigma Xi, national honorary engineering and scientific societies and a licensed professional engineer. The McLean Chemical Sciences Building was named in his honor in 1995. He was a Trustee of Union College and Overlook Hospital, Summit, NJ. He was a founder and first President of the Association of Independent Colleges and Universities of New Jersey. He was also a member of the New Jersey State Board of Higher Education and author of the state's first tuition aid grant program which enabled qualified young people to reduce the financial differential in choosing an independent college. He served on the boards of several major corporations including Digitial Equipment, Ecolabs and National Aviation. His clubs included the Union Club, Baltusrol Golf Club, Short Hills Club, of which he was President, St. Louis Country Club, Harvard Club of New York, the Pilgrim Society and the St. Andrews Society of New York. A memorial service will take place at a later date. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Union County College Foundation, 1033 Springfield Ave, Cranford, NJ 07016.
      