
        TISCH--Laurence A. Bob, Joan, Steve, Jamie, Laurie and Jonathan and their children feel blessed to have spent so many wonderful years with Bob's brother and our dear ''Uncle Larry.'' We learned wisdom, passion, integrity, and ''tikkun olam'' by following his example. His remarkable legacy will remain with us forever. The Preston Robert Tisch Family
        TISCH--Laurence A. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of our distinguished former national president, Laurence A. Tisch. Mr. Tisch demonstrated his devotion to the ATS, the Technion and Israel by serving as president in 1972 and 1973, having served as vice president of the Society in 1968. During his tenure, he encouraged visionary developments during a time of economic retrenchment following the Yom Kippur War. The Technion Faculty of Medicine was officially merged with the university, making the Technion one of the very few technological and scientific universities in the world with a medical school. The Samuel Neaman Institute for Advanced Studies in Science and Technology, a leading Israeli think tank, began to take shape under Mr. Tisch's leadership. The first Harvey Prizes, which became internationally recognized awards for scientific achievement, were bestowed during his tenure. A member of the Technion International Board of Governors, Mr. Tisch established the Tisch Student Aid Fund to provide scholarships and fellowships for Technion students. He was awarded an honorary doctorate in 1989 at a major event chaired by Henry Taub, chairman of the Technion International Board of Governors, during which Mr. Tisch was lauded by former New York State Governor Mario Cuomo. Mr. Tisch's dedicated leadership, which served as a model of Jewish and educational philanthropy, will be missed. We extend our condolences to his wife Billie, brother Preston Robert, his sons Andrew, Dan, James and Tom, and the entire Tisch family. The American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Stephen A. Laser, President Evelyn Berger, Chairman, Board of Directors Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President The Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Prof. Yitzhak Apeloig, Pres. Ben Z. Sosewitz, Chairman, International Board of Governors Henry Taub, Hon. Chairman, International Board of Governors
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Trustees and the entire University of Pennsylvania community are saddened by the death of alumnus and former Trustee, Laurence A. Tisch. A graduate of the Wharton School with a master's degree in industrial management, he was a recipient of Wharton's Gold Medal and the Joseph Wharton Award. Legendary within American higher education for his philanthropy, he generously supported The Wharton School's Campaign for Sustained Leadership. His living legacy at Penn extends to three generations with son James an MBA graduate from Wharton; son Andrew the father of Alexander, C'00, and Lacey C'03; and son Daniel the father of David, C'03, and Michael, C'06. Laurence Tisch demonstrated extraordinary leadership as a businessman, volunteer, and philanthropist. He will be dearly missed by his many friends in the Penn community. We extend the University's heartfelt condolences to his widow, Billie, and all the members of his family. May his memory be a blessing. Judith Rodin, President James S. Riepe, Chair of the Board of Trustees Patrick T. Harker, Dean of The Wharton School
        TISCH--Laurence A. The President, Board of Trustees and entire Montefiore Medical Center community are profoundly saddened by the death of Laurence A. Tisch, beloved father of Daniel Tisch, long time and esteemed member of the Montefiore Board of Trustees for over 20 years. Laurence Tisch, along with his brother Bob, led a family whose name has long been prominent in the world of business but perhaps even more prominent for its extraordinary philanthropic support of a wide array of institutions and causes across this City, the Nation and particularly, the State of Israel. Our sincere and heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Billie, his sons, Andrew, Daniel, James and Thomas and his brother, Bob, and all of his family. Spencer Foreman, M.D., President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        TISCH--Laurence A. The American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the passing of Laurence A. Tisch, distinguished business leader, visionary philanthropist, and honored member of the Academy. His commitment to education, medicine, and the arts epitomizes the Academy's mission to advance learning in service to society. The breadth of his philanthrophy and the depth of his concern made him a great citizen of New York, the nation, and the world. The Academy extends its condolences to his wife, Billie; his brother, Bob; and the entire Tisch family. Patricia Meyer Spacks, President Leslie Berlowitz, Executive Officer Louis Cabot, Vice President Emilio Bizzi, Secretary John S. Reed, Treasurer
        TISCH--Laurence A. ''Words without deeds are nothing. One must show by way of example.'' David Ben-Gurion said these words and Laurence Tisch lived them. We remember our dear friend Larry, a source of inspiration in the world of business and philanthropy, to Israel, the Jewish people and to human kind. Our deepest condolences to Billie and the entire Tisch family. May his memory be a blessing. Lord Weidenfeld, Chairman, Board of Governors, BGU Prof. Avishay Braverman, President, BGU Lis Gaines, President, AABGU
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Board of Trustees and staff of the American Museum of Natural History note with deep sadness the death of Laurence Tisch, a great supporter and friend of the Museum. His steadfast commitment to education and the children of New York is demonstrated in his and the Tisch family's generous support for the Museum's educational mission and the Rose Center for Earth and Space. We extend heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Billie and the entire Tisch family. Lewis W. Bernard, Chairman Ellen V. Futter, President
        TISCH--Laurence A. The Shul of New York mourns the passing of our friend, Laurence Tisch. His exemplary generosity gave our fledging synagogue its very first Torah. His life was an embodiment of the highest values of Jewish Tradition. For generations to come, the human community will continue to be enriched by his kindness and righteousness. His memory is indeed a blessing. Our condolences to his entire loving family. Rabbi Burt Aaron Siegel, and the entire community of The Shul of New York
        TISCH--Laurence A. It is with deep sadness that we mark the passing of Larry Tisch, father of our great friend Danny Tisch. We offer our condolences to Danny and his wife Bonnie, their sons David, Michael and Alan, to Danny's mother Billie and to the entire Tisch Family. Larry Tisch was a special man and it has been our profound honor to know him. Heather, Michael, Gabriel and Irene
        TISCH--Laurence A. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Billie, Jimmy and Merryl, Andy and Ann, Danny and Bonnie, Tommy and Alice, Bob and Joan, and the entire Tisch family. The world has lost one of its brightest shining stars, but is a much better place for his having passed this way. His life was a magnificent journey. Patricia, Alan, Adam and Josh Abramson
        TISCH--Laurence A. Tel Aviv University deeply mourns the passing of Laurence A. Tisch, member of the Board of Governors and Doctor Philosophiae Honoris Causa of the University. A great leader, a great friend. Michael H. Steinhardt, Chairman, Board of Governors Professor Itamar Rabinovich, President
        TISCH--Laurence A. The trustees and staff of the New York City Police Foundation send our heartfelt condolences to our dedicated Board member, Andrew, on the passing of his father, Laurence Tisch. Our thoughts are with the entire Tisch family. George D. Benjamin, Chairman Pamela D. Delaney, President
        TISCH--Laurence. A remarkable man with a strong sense of community and family. His success and achievements are shared by many. Our thoughts are with Billie and family. Louise Sunshine & Martin Begun
        TISCH--Laurence A. I mourn the loss of a great friend. Condolences to Billie, Andy and Ann, Danny and Bonnie, Jimmy and Merryl, Tommy and Alice, Bob and Joan and the entire family. Muriel Myerson
        TISCH--Laurence A. Laurence Tisch was a gentleman and a leader in our community whom I have admired and respected all my life. My sincere condolences to his entire family. George S. Kaufman
        TISCH--Laurence. We join with all who were touched by his good deeds to mourn the passing of Larry Tisch. Condolences to the entire Tisch family. Leon and Marsha Wagner
        TISCH--Laurence A. The JCC of Canarsie extends our condolences to James and Merryl on the passing of your dear father.
        TISCH--Laurence A. Lar, thank you for making me a better person. XOX, Bonnie Kozek
      