
        KLEINER -- Sam. Fisher Brothers mourns the passing of our dear counsel, Sam Kleiner. For over two decades, he was our invaluable partner, confidant and most importantly, great friend. Beside being a skilled and knowledgeable attorney, Sam was an astute, fair-minded businessman, profoundly respected by all. Our hearts go out to his wife, Darlene, his five sons, Jeremy, Benjamin, Kenneth, David and Christopher, his two granddaughters, Karson and Devon, as well as his mother, Betty Kleiner, and his sister, Hannah Weise. Sam was taken from us all too soon. His warmth, gentleness, wisdom and pure sweetness will never be forgotten. Fisher Brothers Arnold Fisher Richard L. Fisher Ken Fisher Steven Fisher Winston C. Fisher
        KLEINER -- Samuel. We mourn the loss of our colleague and dear friend, Sam Kleiner, and offer our heartfelt sympathy and prayers to his wife, Darlene, his children and the entire Kleiner family. Sam was a prince of a man who possessed both a keen intellect and a wonderful sense of humor. Sam's warmth and charm endeared him to all who had the privilege of knowing him. To Sam, a handshake was everything. He made business a pleasure. I will miss him dearly. We will all miss him. Mitchell Steir and Everyone at Studley
        KLEINER--Samuel. Sam, you have been a great friend, advisor and mentor to all of us at Fisher Brothers. Your sense of humor, gentleness and kindness will be greatly missed. We send our most heartfelt condolences to Darlene, Ken, David, Christopher, Jeremy and Benjamin for your tremendous loss. You will greatly be missed but not forgotten. Staff of Fisher Brothers Management Company
        KLEINER--Samuel. You and Darlene have been an integral part of our lives for 30 years. You were a true gentleman--respected by all your peers, a devoted family man, an avid tennis player and a great friend. You loved and appreciated your wonderful life--your adoring wife, Darlene, and your five magnificent sons. We will miss you forever. Ruth, Fred, Evan & Jason Schwalbe
        KLEINER -- Samuel. Words cannot express the heartfelt sadness resulting from Sam's untimely passing. My colleague, my partner, but more importantly, my friend, the world will be a lonlier place without your presence. The Whalen family extends their deepest condolences to Darlene and the entire Kleiner family. Jack Whalen
        KLEINER--Sam. We have lost a good friend. Our condolences to his loving wife, Darlene, and his sons, Kenneth, Christopher, David, Jeremy and Benjamin. May the memories of his warm smile, sense of humor and, above all, love of his family sustain you, especially during this time of grief. Sheila & Richard Schlesinger
        KLEINER--Sam. Newmark and Company Real Estate, Inc. wishes to express its deepest condolences to the family of Samuel Kleiner. Sam was both a friend and colleague, and he will be greatly missed.
        KLEINER--Sam. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the family of our dear friend and colleague, Sam. We will miss him. Don and Isabelle DiRenzo
      