
        SMYTHE--Sheila Mary. The Manhattanville College community mourns the loss of Sheila Mary Smythe, one of its most dedicated and beloved alumni and volunteer leaders, who died on November 4, 2003. Few individuals have so modestly and selflessly served Manhattanville, helping to lead the college through two decades of growth and change while serving as mentor and guide to countless former students of all ages and faiths. Few individuals have so consistently lived the college's mission, to educate ethically and socially responsible leaders for the global community. Miss Smythe, a graduate of Manhattanville College, served on the college's board of trustees for more then 20 years, beginning in 1981. Twice, she oversaw the college's search for a new president, including in 1994, when president Richard A. Berman, who serves today, was chosen. She twice served as chair of the board, most recently serving as vice-chair, member of the executive committee and academic affairs committees and chair of the trustee affairs committee. In 1981, she received the college's Distinguished Alumni Award and in 1974, the college presented her with an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree in recognition of her professional and personal achievements. In 1997, Manhattanville established the Sheila Mary Smythe Award, given periodically to an esteemed alumnus who has successfully worked to improve society. Over her impressive career Miss Smythe was widely respected for her vision and commitment to education and to health care, and for the strong friendships she made throughout her years of business and community leadership. After serving as president and CEO of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, she became the chief health policy advisor to the Comptroller General of the United States (U.S. General Accounting Office). In 1990, she joined New York Medical College as professor of health policy and economics, and the first dean of the Graduate School of Health Sciences. Since 1995, she also served as executive vice president of the college and president of its Partnership for a Healthy Population. In addition to serving Manhattanville College, Miss Smythe served on the boards of many business and community organizations, including the March of Dimes, Catholic Charities USA and Mutual of America Life Insurance Company. Miss Smythe earned Bachelor of Arts degrees from Manhattanville College and Creighton University, and a Master of Science degree from the Graduate School of Public Health and Administrative Medicine at Columbia University, where she also undertook doctoral studies. Miss Smythe is survived by her niece, Sheila P. Gonley, who graduated from Manhattanville College in 1992 and now lives in England. Manhattanville College has established a Shelia Mary Smythe Memorial Fund. Contributions may be sent in Miss Smythe's name to: Manhattanville College, 2900 Purchase Street, Purchase, New York 10504.
        SMYTHE -- Sheila. Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) mourns the passing of Sheila Smythe, executive vice president of New York Medical College, dean of its School of Public Health, and former president and chief operating officer of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield. During her long, distinguished career, Ms. Smythe was committed to improving the delivery of health care, and was an expert in public health and health care management, finance, policy, and education. We extend our deepest condolences to her friends and loved ones. Stanley Brezenoff, Chairman Kenneth E. Raske, President GNYHA
      