
        SHAPIRO--Milton S., 81, on November 7, 2003 at his home. Devoted husband of Beatrice, loving father of Susan and Steven Levkoff and Janet and Philip Shapiro, adoring grandfather of Cameron, Josh, Brooke, Logan and Lou. Loyal brother of Dorothy Rothschild, Muriel Firestone and the late Anna Mark. Prominent attorney and distinguished philanthropic leader. Funeral service November 9th at 11:30AM at Temple Israel, 112 East 75th Street, New York, NY. Contributions may be made to the Jewish National Fund.
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. An indescribable loss! Milt was a giant among men, an intellectual with a great sense of humor plus an enormous lust for life and knowledge. His energy and generosity were boundless. Not a moment in his life was wasted, yet he constantly strove for more. Those of us who knew him were blessed and yet he considered himself ''the luckiest man in the world''. He enjoyed his work, his many causes and was devoted to his fabulous wife and his loving children and grandchildren. I will always continue to be proud to have been his sister. My daughters and my grandsons have been fortunate and grateful that he was their uncle. He was adored and appreciated and will be remembered lovingly. Our condolences and our love to Bea and the family. Dot, Jane, Pat, Kipp and Skylar
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Graubard Miller deeply mourn the passing of our beloved and esteemed Counsel, Milton S. Shapiro. For us, Milton was a greatly loved and appreciated friend and counselor. For the world, he was an enormously fervent and energetic pursuer of fairness and justice, much of the time for the Jewish people and Israel, but always for the benefit of mankind. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Bea, and their family. He will be greatly missed. Graubard Miller
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. With profound sadness we mourn the death of our father, an extraordinary and exceptional man. A champion of the human spirit, he was a man of integrity, wisdom, and selfless generosity. A committed philanthropist, he taught us by his example-to give rather than to receive. He celebrated life and showered his love on our mother, our childrn and us. He will always be our hero. Susan and Steven Levkoff Philip and Janet Shapiro
        SHAPIRO--Milton. The Muttontown Club mourns the passing of our distinguished former President and beloved founding member, Milton Shapiro. His leadership, compassion and philanthropic involvement set the highest standard for all of us. We extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Bea, and his children Philip and Janet Shapiro and Susan and Steven Levkoff and their families. The Board of Governors The Muttontown Club
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. The National Board of American Friends of Likud deeply regrets the passing of its Treasurer, the legendary Milton S. Shapiro, and extends its condolences and deepest sympathy to his family. Julio Messer, M.D., Pres J. Philip Rosen, Chairman Jacques Torczyner, V.P Salomon L. Vaz Dias, Dir
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. The employees and residents of Anbe Realty LLC mourn the death of our founder and leader, Milton S. Shapiro. He was an inspiration to all. His humor, intelligence, and farsightedness will be remembered and missed by all who had the pleasure of knowing him. We send the Shapiro family our sincere condolences.
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. Milton's death is a loss beyond measure. His brilliance, his energy, his humor and his kindness made him quite simply irreplaceable. He was a gift to us that ended too soon, but the memories will be treasured. Our condolences and love to Bea and the family. Chelsea Town LLC
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. Somehow I dreamed that we would always be together. But fate has intervened; and now, I can only treasure the memories of your selfless spirit, your brilliant mind, and your compassionate heart. You will forever be the love of my life. Bebby
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. Pop Pop, your exemplary life has taught us the importance of family and of living honorably. We will always admire your generosity and zest for life. Your legacy will live on in all of us. Logan and Lou, Cameron, Josh, and Brooke
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. The Firestone and Litvak Families mourn the passing of Milton Shapiro, beloved brother of Muriel Firestone. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire Shapiro Family.
      