
        ROCHELLE - THOMAS -Alfred Peter. Age 88, devoted husband and loving father, passed away peacefully at his home in West Palm Beach, FL, November 1, 2003 with his loving wife, Cathy Maxwell Rochelle-Thomas, by his side. Born in London, England on April 8, 1915, Peter was a proud WWII veteran whose plane was shot down defending England. After the war, Mr. Rochelle-Thomas returned to the family business, J. Rochelle-Thomas Antiques that had been established by his grandfather in England. Eventually Peter moved the business and his family to New York where he became well known and respected for his expertise, collections and knowledge of fine porcelain and art. After retiring to Bermuda, Mr. Rochelle-Thomas returned to Palm Beach to open Palm Beach Antiques, Inc. with his two sons. Mr. Rochelle-Thomas has held several Royal Warrants and was known and respected by many for his knowledge and authority, including Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, and Queen Elizabeth II. He was highly regarded by Christies and Sotheby's auction houses, which came to him often seeking his knowledge and opinions. He was a member of the British Antiques Dealers Association, which had been established by his grandfather, its first president, in 1918. Mr. Rochelle-Thomas is predeceased by, Alfred W. Rochelle - Thomas and David Rochelle-Thomas, his sons with his former wife, Alfreda Rochelle-Thomas, who survives him. He leaves to cherish his memory his wife, Cathy Maxwell RochelleThomas of West Palm Beach; and his daughter Sara Rochelle-Thomas, his grandchildren Emma and Tom and his great grandson, Lewis, all of London. He is predeceased by his former wife, Stella Spurr Rochelle-Thomas and his son, Edward RochelleThomas. A Funeral Mass will be celebrated at 11:00 A.M. on Tuesday, November 4, 2003 at St. Ann Catholic Church, West Palm Beach, Fl, followed by a local interment at Our Lady Queen of Peace Catholic Cemetery. For those who wish, donations may be made in the memory of Alfred Peter Rochelle-Thomas to Hospice of Palm Beach County, 5300 East Avenue, West Palm Beach, Florida 33407. For information, contact the Quattlebaum Funeral Home, West Palm Beach, FL.
      