
        FAY--Ronald Patrick. Age 74 of Heathrow, Florida, died Tuesday, November 18, 2003. Ron is lovingly remembered for his warm smile, hearty chuckle, and sense of humor. A humble and modest man, he rarely mentioned his achievements. His integrity was without question and he was born a leader. Born in Milwaukee, WI. on May 25, 1929, Ron was the second of four sons born to Patrick Fay and Charlotte Welch. All have predeceased him, as well as Jean Reniewicki, his loving wife of 26 years. Formerly President of Wendy's International, the hamburger chain, Ron's character was formed during his 12 years of parochial school. He graduated from Saint John's Cathedral H.S. in Milwaukee, WI. in 1948. He was a member of Annunciation Catholic Church in Altamonte Springs, FL. and Saint Brigid of Kildare in Dublin, OH., where he maintained a second home. Ron was a veteran of the Korean Conflict and fought in the trenches at the battles of Hamburger Hill and Pork Chop Hill, where he was decorated for his service. Ron's impressive career began as a 14-year old busboy in a W.T. Grants department store in Milwaukee, WI. Ron quickly ascended the management ranks and was National Corporate Director of Marketing and Purchasing when the company filed bankruptcy in 1975. While at Grants, he pioneered a purchasing and delivery system that was adopted widely throughout the food service industry. He joined Wendy's in 1976 as a franchisee, but in 1981, he was named President of Wendy's International, overseeing one of the most intensely competitive periods in the industry's history. Under his leadership, Wendy's launched its widely successful ''Where's the Beef'' ad campaign. Ron retired in 1986. In 1990, he returned to the working world as the Operating Partner with Bob Stine, a Wendy's franchisee in Central Florida. The growing franchise was soon a regional leader in sales and operations. Motivating people by example, Ron visited at least one restaurant every day and was well known by managers and crew people alike. Just a few weeks before his death, the partnership was sold to Wendy's International and he retired. Ron was an avid golfer and former member at Tuckaway Country Club, Milwaukee, Indian Hills Country, Club, Long Island, Cavalier Golf Club, Virginia Beach, and Firestone Country Club, Akron. He was a current member of the county club in Heathrow, FL. and the country club at Muirfield Village, in Dublin, OH. While he had three holes in one, his proudest achievement was shooting a birdie on the 18th hole to help win the Pro-Am at the Memorial Tournament in 1985, teaming with John Bench and Tom Kite. Some of Ron's other distinguished golfing partners included the former Presidents, George Bush and Gerald Ford, and Neil Armstrong, along with a host of professional golfers whom he played with in a host of Pro-Am tournaments throughout the country. Ron was well-known for his homey aphorisms: do the ordinary things extraordinarily well; Keep on keepin' on, Kill'em with Kindness; I can only wear one pair of shoes at a time; you've got time to lean, you've got time to clean. Ron is survived by his devoted wife of 16 years, Ernesta Johnson Fay, Jean's children, Kallen Fay Brown (Rev. Larry), Lancaster, OH., Erin Marie Fay, Dublin, OH., Christopher Fay, Austin, TX., along with Ernie's children, Jennifer Nester (Steve), Lewis Center, OH., and Zachary Johnson (Shannon), Santa Barbara, CA., four grandchildren, Tarah, Derek and Kevin Brown of Lancaster, OH., and Luke Nester of Lewis Center, OH. Visitation will be held Saturday, November 22nd, 3-5PM at BaldwinFairchild Funeral Home, 994 E. Altamonte Dr., Altamonte Springs, FL. 32701 with a wake service 5PM at the funeral home. A family funeral will be conducted at Saint John's Cathedral, Milwaukee, and burial will be in Mount Oliviet Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption, 1 Dave Thomas Blvd., Dublin, OH. 43017.
      