
        GOTTLIEB--Dr. Paul, Director of the School of Biological Sciences died November 1, 2003, in Austin, Texas, of liver cancer at the age of 59. He was both a creative scientist and an empathetic administrator. He became Director of the School in the College of Natural Sciences in September 2001 after serving several years as chairman of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology. During his tenure as the School's Director, he worked unceasingly to increase the interactions between two seemingly disparate groups of biological scientists, those who study whole organisms and those like Dr. Gottlieb who study specific molecular processes. His achievements have left an enduring legacy at the University. Dr. Gottlieb expanded programs and helped increase funding for biological research and for both graduate and undergraduate education. Gottlieb received a BA from Princeton University in 1965. He then earned a doctoral degree from The Rockefeller University, working with Nobel Laureate Gerald Edelman. After a post-doctoral fellowship at Stanford Gottlieb took a faculty appointment at MIT. He came to the University of Texas as Professor in 1980. His research focused on the cells that constitute the body's immune system. In his early career, he made seminal contributions to deciphering the structure and function of antibodies, laying the groundwork for understanding how each immune cell produces only a single antibody. Later, he worked to understand the function of a major class of immune cells, called killer T cells. Gottlieb also discovered a new gene important for T cell function and for cardiovascular system development. Mice lacking this protein have an embryonic heart defect that has important implications for cardiac disease in children. A co-author of more than 70 scientific articles, Gottlieb also served as an editor of various immunology journals and as a member of national research immune cell produces only a single antibody. Later, he worked to understand the function of a major class of immune cells, called killer T cells. Gottlieb also discovered a new gene important for T cell function and for cardiovascular system development. Mice lacking this protein have an embryonic heart defect that has important implications for cardiac disease in children. A co-author of more than 70 scientific articles, Gottlieb also served as an editor of various immunology journals and as a member of national research committees. He was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Gottlieb was a native of New Brunswick, N.J. He is survived in Austin by his wife, Nell Gottlieb; his daughter, Erin A. Gottlieb, and sonin-law, Eric A. Bedell from Galveston; his brother, Michael Gottlieb from Pasadena, Calif.; and his mother, Beatrice Gottlieb from Highland Park, N.J. The College of Biological Sciences of the University of Texas at Austin deeply mourns his passing. Donations may be made to The Paul Gottlieb Memorial Fund at the School of Biological Sciences, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712.
      