
        KARP--Abraham J., Rabbi, professor, scholar and bibliophile. Born April 5, 1921, Amdur (Indura) Poland. Arrived in New York 1930. Died November 24, 2003 in New York. Educated at Yeshiva University High School, Yeshiva College, the Jewish Theological Seminary of America and Columbia University. Rabbi in Swampscott, MA, Kansas City, MO and Rochester, NY. Professor of History and Religion at the University of Rochester, Adjunct Research Professor at the Jewish Theological Seminary. Author of many books, including The Jewish Way of Life, Haven and Home: A History of the Jews in America and From the Ends of the Earth: Judaic Treasures of the Library of Congress. Survived by his wife Deborah, two sons Hillel and David, daughtersin-law, Arlene and Barbara and six grandchildren, Joshua, Aaron, and Rachel; Sarah, Beth, and Benjamin. Contributions may be made to institutions of Jewish learning. Funeral 2 PM Tuesday, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st St. & Amsterdam Ave, New York.
        KARP--Rabbi Abraham. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Rabbi Abraham Karp, the Joseph and Rebecca Mitchell Adjunct Research Professor of American Jewish History and Bibliography at JTS. The extraordinary range of his career included congregational rabbi, professor of Judaica, research scholar at the Library of Congress and professor at JTS. Rabbi Karp's unique, personal collection of American Judaica is a part of The Library's permanent holdings. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Board Chairman
        KARP--Abraham J. A giant of the Spirit, luminary of contemporary Jewish life and learning, exemplary Rabbi, and true gentleman. He was our Friend and Advisor for four decades. To his adoring help-mate, Dr. Deborah Karp, and his accomplished sons, Hillel and David and their families, we offer condolences. Jonathan D. Levine, Editor The Prayer Book Press, & the Board of Media Judaica
      