
        PAUL--Robert David. On November 27, 2003 at age 75 of a brain tumor. Retired President and Chairman of The Segal Company; Founder and former Chairman of the Employee Benefit Research Institute; Board member of WellChoice, Inc.; and former Board member of Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, Inc. Beloved husband of Eve for 51 years. Devoted father of Jeremy (Laurel Leff) and Sarah (Dr. Mark Nachamie) and grandfather of Jason and Russell Paul and Eli Nachamie. Loving brother of Norma Benisch. His passion for getting things right, doing one's best and treating others with dignity and respect will forever remain an inspiration to all who knew him. Services Sunday, November 30 at 12:45 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in his memory may be made to the MFA Program in Creative Writing, University of Michigan, Department of English Language and Literature.
        PAUL--Robert D. On November 27, 2003 in New York City. A highly respected colleague and leader of our company, Bob retired as Chairman of The Segal Company on December 31, 1993, after a 43year career with the firm. He was a mentor to many of our colleagues and a thought leader in the development and design of employee benefits. He served as our firm's President from 1967-76, Vice Chair from 1977-91, and Chairman from 1991-93. Bob was a founding member of the Employee Benefit Research Institute and its former Chairman. He also served as a Fellow of the Human Resource Policy Institute at Boston University's School of Management. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Martin E. Segal, Founder and Chairman Emeritus Robert D. Krinsky, Chairman Howard Fluhr, President and CEO The Segal Company
        PAUL--Robert David. My dear friend and fine colleague for more than 50 years, he is deeply mourned by me and the many who knew this remarkable man. He was the first President of the Segal Company when in 1968 I became Chairman. In the years which followed he was a leader of special distinction. Bob Paul was my partner in arranging the purchase of the company by its employees in 1978. In every matter involving clients, company employees and friends, he was exceptional and caring. To Bob's beloved wife and family, Edith and I and our families extend heartfelt condolences. We count on the memories of Bob's wonderful life as solace in the years ahead. Martin E. Segal
      