
        GELBERG -- Frederick. 84. Beloved husband of Terie Gelberg (nee Isaacs) and the loving father of Barbara Freundlich (Richard), Jonathan Gelberg (Debra) and Steven Gelberg (Nilima). Adored grandfather of Amanda and Ali Angerman, and Michael and Robert Gelberg. Mr. Gelberg will be remembered by all who knew him for his brilliance, his love of life, compassion, inspiration and devotion to family and friends. He was a Partner at the law firm of Moses & Singer in NYC. Previously a Partner at Gelberg & Abrams, and at Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hayes & Handler. He was a widely respected member of the New York Tax Bar and was honored by the New York Law Journal as one of the top tax attorneys in NYC. He was a graduate of the City College of New York and Columbia University School of Law, where he was an editor of The Law Review. Mr. Gelberg was also an honored veteran of WWII. Funeral services will be held on Tuesday at 11am, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, at 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY (across from the train station). No flowers please. Donations can be made to Columbia University School of Law or the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation.
        GELBERG--Frederick. The attorneys and staff of Moses & Singer LLP mourn the loss of our esteemed friend and partner, Frederick Gelberg, and wish to express our deepest sympathy to Terie Gelberg and to Fred's children, Barbara, Jonathan and Steven. Fred practiced tax law at the highest level of complexity, sophistication and imagination and always consistent with the strictest ethical standards. Fred was a graduate of Columbia Law School where he was an editor of its Law Review. Prior to joining Moses & Singer LLP, Fred was the head of the tax departments at Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hayes & Handler and later at Gelberg & Abrams. Fred's unfailing humor, good sense and concern for others will be missed by all.
        GELBERG -- Frederick. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, President
        GELBERG--Frederick. You were the most loving, giving, inspirational father a person could have. You were always there for us and will always be a part of us and for that, we are eternally grateful. With all our love, Bobbi and Jon
        GELBERG--Frederick. We all love and miss you so much, Poppy. We are so lucky to have been a part of your life for such a long time. We will all be better people because of you. Love, Amanda, Mike, Ali & Rob
      