
        SHAPIRO--Milton S., 81, on November 7, 2003 at his home. Devoted husband of Beatrice, loving father of Susan and Steven Levkoff and Janet and Philip Shapiro, adoring grandfather of Cameron, Josh, Brooke, Logan and Lou. Loyal brother of Dorothy Rothschild, Muriel Firestone and the late Anna Mark. Prominent attorney and distinguished philanthropic leader. Funeral service November 9th at 11:30AM at Temple Israel, 112 East 75th Street, New York, NY. Contributions may be made to the Jewish National Fund.
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. Bnai Zion, now in its 95th year of existence, mourns the untimely loss of its distinguished Vice President, Milton S. Shapiro. A longtime leader in Jewish life. Over the years he served as President of the Jewish National Fund and the Zionist Organization of America and in many other important capacities. In addition to his many philanthropic roles, he was a prominent member of the legal community. He will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathies to his family. Services will be held at Temple Israel, 112 East 71st St, between Park and Lex, at 11:30 AM, on Sunday, November 9, 2003. Michael J. Lazar National President George W. Schaeffer National Board Chair Mel Parness Executive Vice President Jack Grunspan National Secretary
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. An indescribable loss! Milt was a giant among men, an intellectual with a great sense of humor plus an enormous lust for life and knowledge. His energy and generosity were boundless. Not a moment in his life was wasted, yet he constantly strove for more. Those of us who knew him were blessed and yet he considered himself ''the luckiest man in the world''. He enjoyed his work, his many causes and was devoted to his fabulous wife and his loving children and grandchildren. I will always continue to be proud to have been his sister. My daughters and my grandsons have been fortunate and grateful that he was their uncle. He was adored and appreciated and will be remembered lovingly. Our condolences and our love to Bea and the family. Dot, Jane, Pat, Kipp and Skylar
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. To our dear friend, Susan, and the Shapiro, Levkoff and Cortes families, our sympathies are with you on this enormous loss. Milton was an inspiration to all. He rose to this final challenge with the same qualities he possessed in life. He was respected by all for his strength, beliefs, intelligence, dignity, and especially his love of family and joy for life. We hope the good memories will come to sustain you. With love, Elyse and Steve; Erica, Larry, Tyler and Ryan; Michelle, Adam and Joey
        SHAPIRO--Milton. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of Milton Shapiro. We will miss his wisdom, compassion and humor. A great leader in Jewish philanthropy, a wonderful role model for our family, his legacy will live forever in our hearts. Most important, a kind and gentle family man, filled with courage, respect and love. Our deepest sympathy to Bea, Flip and Janet, Susan and Steven, and the entire family. We love you. June, Michael, Amy, Nikki and Stephanie Cohen
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. With profound sadness we mourn the death of our father, an extraordinary and exceptional man. A champion of the human spirit, he was a man of integrity, wisdom, and selfless generosity. A committed philanthropist, he taught us by his example-to give rather than to receive. He celebrated life and showered his love on our mother, our childrn and us. He will always be our hero. Susan and Steven Levkoff Philip and Janet Shapiro
        SHAPIRO--Milton. We mourn the passing of Milton. His loving devotion, courage, spirit, wisdom and leadership will be sorely missed and never forgotten by everyone who knew him. Our heartfelt sympathies to Bea, Susan, Steven, Logan, Lou, Cameron, Flip, Janet, Josh, Brooke and the entire family. Marilyn and Steve, Lauren and Josh
        SHAPIRO--Milton. Our hearts are broken for our dear friends Susan, Steve, Bea, Janet, Flip and the the entire Shapiro and Levkoff families. We feel your pain and sadness at the loss of a special man, Milton. May your wonderful memories sustain you through this difficult time. The Kwiat and Mann Families
        SHAPIRO--Milton. The Board of Governors and members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Florida acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our friend and esteemed past member of the Board of Governors. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Beatrice and their family. Dr. Elliott Solomon, Pres
        SHAPIRO--Milton. The Ma'aleh Adumim Foundation mourns the passing of our Chairman of the Board, Milton Shapiro. He was also the Vice President of Bnai Zion and former president of the ZOA and the Jewish National Fund. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family. We are diminished by his loss.
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. Milton's death is a loss beyond measure. His brilliance, his energy, his humor and his kindness made him quite simply irreplaceable. He was a gift to us that ended too soon, but the memories will be treasured. Our condolences and love to Bea and the family. Chelsea Town LLC
        SHAPIRO--Milton. The American Zionist Movement mourns the passing of Milton Shapiro, a devoted and generous Zionist leader. His warmth and committment will be sorely missed. May his memory be a blessing. Jim Schiller, President Karen Rubinstein, Exec. Dir.
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. Somehow I dreamed that we would always be together. But fate has intervened; and now, I can only treasure the memories of your selfless spirit, your brilliant mind, and your compassionate heart. You will forever be the love of my life. Bebby
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. Pop Pop, your exemplary life has taught us the importance of family and of living honorably. We will always admire your generosity and zest for life. Your legacy will live on in all of us. Logan and Lou, Cameron, Josh, and Brooke
        SHAPIRO -- Milton. You've taught us by example to be generous, compassionate, energetic, to always listen and return a phone call and to use every opportunity for ''Tikkun Olam.'' Joyce and Steve Prenner
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. The JNF family mourns the loss of its former president, Milton Shapiro, a great Zionist leader and friend to Israel and its people. Ronald S. Lauder, President Russell F. Robinson, CEO
        SHAPIRO--Milton. Our hearts and prayers are with our dear friends Sue and Steve, Logan and Lou and Cameron on the loss of their adored father and grandfather. Diane and Frank Lederman
        SHAPIRO--Milton S. Our monthly dinners together will never be the same without you. The Goldbergs, Horowitzes, Loews and Schechters
      