
        GRATZ--Donald, on November 22, after a long battle with Cancer. Beloved husband and helpmate of Roberta. Doting father of Laura and Rebecca. Loving brother of Bill. Loving father-in-law of Jon and Joe. Adoring grandfather of Halina, Frank, Stella and Isaac. The owner and guiding force of Gratz Industries. Donald was the consummate craftsman and so much more. His wit was like a shaft of light. With him around, you never needed to dust off the encyclopedia. He could fix anything. He zipped through the Times crossword puzzle. He shot pool like a shark and he mastered the arts of friendship and love. Funeral will be held Tuesday at 12noon at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st St & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that you make a contribution to the Eldridge Street Project, 12 Eldridge Street, NYC 10002, or Dr. David Nanus Research Fund 525 East 68th St. NY NY
        GRATZ--Donald. The community of the Eldridge Street Project mourns the passing of our beloved friend and benefactor, Donald Gratz, and extends our deepest condolences to his wife Roberta Brandes Gratz and daughters Laura and Rebecca and their families. Donald was a cherished friend who brought joy and humor into our lives. He will be greatly missed and his memory will always be in our hearts. Michael E. Weinstein, Chairman Lorinda Ash Ezersky, President The Board of Directors and Staff of the Eldridge Street Project
        GRATZ--Donald. The Officers and Trustees of the Eldridge Street Synagogue extend sincerest condolences to Roberta Gratz, Founder and driving force of the Eldridge Street Project, upon the untimely loss of her husband, Donald. May the A'mighty comfort and console the family amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Paul P.E. Bookson, Pres. David Sitzer, V.P. Betty Goodman, Secy Treas.
        GRATZ--Donald. Dear friend to our family for so many years. We shared so much joy and now such sorrow. Your untimely passing leaves a deep wound in our hearts and a void in our lives. Love that will never die because it becomes the most cherished memory. We share your loss with all who love you. Carol, Burt, Philip, Rebecca and Lee
        GRATZ--Donald. The staff of Goodstein Management Inc. offers its condolences to the family of Donald Gratz. It was an honor and privilege to have worked with Donald in his volunteer efforts on behalf of the Century Condominium.
        GRATZ--Donald. The Board of Managers of the Century Condominium deeply mourn the passing of Donald Gratz, a present member and former President who has over the years given outstanding service to the Condominium.
        GRATZ--Donald. From his friends at The Nation magazine, The Nation Cruise and The Circle of 100. We will miss his loyalty and wit. Our thoughts are with you, Roberta, and your family.
        GRATZ--Donald. The Board of the Fire Island Synagogue expresses it deepest sympathy to Roberta and the family.
      