
        PERSON--Stanley. Devoted husband of Diane (nee Goetz). Beloved father of Rabbi Hara Person, U.A.H.C., and Jennifer Person. Cherished grandfather of Liya, Yonatan and Goldi. Dear brother of Sam, the late Joseph, Frances Kaufmann and Isabel Pershan. Services 12 noon, Tuesday, Gramercy Park Chapels, 157 2nd Avenue, NYC.
        PERSON--Stanley. The entire family of Long Island College Hospital and Continuum Health Partners acknowledges with sorrow the passing of Stanley Person, beloved husband of esteemed LICH regent and Continuum Health Partners trustee, Diane Person, Ph.D. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the family and to those who loved him. John Wren Chairman of the Board Long Island College Hospital Morton Hyman Chairman of the Board Continuum Health Partners Stanley Brezenoff President and CEO Continuum Health Partners Mark McDougle Interim President and CEO Long Island College Hospital Daniel D. Ricciardi, M.D. President of the Medical Board, LICH
        PERSON -- Stanley. Person and Co., CPAs, LLP mourns the loss of founding partner who died Saturday, November 1. Person served the American Institute of CPAs Chair of Continuing Professional Education, Chair of CPE National Curriculum Committee on individual Estate and Trust Taxation, and was active in the New York State Society of CPAs as well as many philanthropic activities. He is survived by his wife, Dr. Diane Goetz Person, his daughters Rabbi Hara Person, and Jenni Person, and his grandchildren Liya, Yoni and Goldi. Steven Mutino Yigal Rechtman Sally Chan and Staff Person and Co., CPAs LLP
        PERSON--Stanley. The staff of the Stanley S. Lamm Institute for Child Neurology and Developmental Medicine and the Stanley Lamm Preschool deeply mourns the passing of Stanley, beloved husband of our devoted Advisory Board member, Diane Person. Our sincere condolences to Diane and family. Harvey S. Bennett, M.D. Medical Director Vincent M. Mulvihill Administrative Director Anna Maria Caccamo Preschool Director
        PERSON--Stanley. The Board and staff of Brooklyn Public Library Foundation extend condolences to our Trustee, Diane Person, and the entire Person family, on the loss of dear husband, father and grandfather, Stanley. Howard Smith, Chairman Evan Kingsley, President Ginnie Cooper, Executive Director, BPL
        PERSON--Stanley. We send our condolences to Hara, Yigal and their entire family on the loss of Stanley Person, who fought but lost a brave battle against his illness. Congregation B'Nai Olam Fire Island Pines
      