
        O'HARA -- Vincent Francis. Died on November 15, 2003 in Wilton, CT. as a result of metastatic cancer. At the time of his death, Vincent O'Hara was 85 years old. Vincent Francis O'Hara was born on September 26, 1918 in Goshen, NY as the third of five children born to Richard Luke O'Hara and Mary Ann Conroy O'Hara. On March 6, 1943, Vincent O'Hara married Madeline Mary Sheridan, his wife of 52 years, before her death in 1995. Vincent Francis O'Hara graduated from Fordham University in 1939 and received his LL.B. from Fordham Law School in 1946. Vincent's time in law school was interrupted by his service as Captain of a minesweeper in the U.S. Navy, Pacific Theater. After World War II, Vincent was discharged from the U.S. Navy with the rank of Lieutenant Commander and resumed his legal career. Vincent subsequently received an LL.M from Brooklyn Law School and did further work at NYU Law School. He began his legal career in the field of labor law and pension law and subsequently worked with The Martin E. Segal Co. until his retirement as President and Vice Chairman of the Board. He then worked as a consultant until 1991. In the course of his career, Vincent represented Labor Unions and worked with many of the largest Taft-Hartley Funds in the U.S. throughout his life, Vincent was known for his integrity, intelligence, generosity, humor, and devotion to his family. Throughout their lives, Vincent and Madeline stressed the importance of family by word or example, which included strong support for education and advancement of all their children. Even as his illness advanced, Vincent's concern and interests centered on his family. Until recently, Vincent enjoyed golf and tennis with his friends in Connecticut and Florida. Vincent was a lifelong member of the Catholic Church, attending Holy Spirit Parish in Stamford and St. Aloysius in New Canaan since 1966. Vincent was preceded in death by his wife Madeline Sheridan O'Hara, by his parents, his sisters Helen O'Hara and Irene O'Hara McCaffrey, and his brother James. Vincent is survived by his brother Richard L. O'Hara, his first cousin, who was like a brother, Norman Leonard, and other cousins. Vincent's family who survive him and who miss him greatly includes his six children, their spouses, and his eleven grandchildren: Patricia O'Hara Capaccio, her husband Peter Capaccio, and their children Jennifer Mennella and Peter Jr.; Gregory Francis O'Hara, his wife Beth, and their children Madeline, Logan, and Gavin; Mary Ann O'Hara de Moll, her husband Richard de Moll, and their children Ellen and Elizabeth; Vincent F. O'Hara, Jr., his wife Rosemary and their children Jesse McTiernan, Vincent, and Brendan; Jane O'Hara, her husband Robert Thompson, and their daughter Kathleen Caggiano; and Sister Ellen O'Hara, CSJ. All of Vincent's family wishes to acknowledge their love and gratitude to Mary Ann and Vincent for their extensive personal commitment to the care of our father. The family also wishes to acknowledge and thank the staff of The Green Retirement Center and the caring and professional nurses of Geron Nursing Registry for their many kindnesses and concern for Vincent in his last illness. Vincent's wake will be held at Hoyt Funeral Home, 199 Main Street, New Canaan, CT from 6:00 P.M. to 8:00 P.M. on November 19th and 20th, 2003 and a Roman Catholic Mass Christian Burial will be celebrated at 11:00 A.M. on November 21, 2003 at St. Aloysius Church, 21 Cherry Street, New Canaan, CT, followed by burial in Lakeview Cemetery, New Canaan, CT.
      