
        STARNES--Dr. James H., Jr. Age 64 of Yorktown, VA died October 27, 2003. He is survived by wife, Sue Starnes; daughter, Susan Katherine Starnes; son and daughter-inlaw, Mr. and Mrs. James H. Starnes, III; sister, Ruth Ann Rodgers Lumpkin; brother, Dr. Joseph W. Starnes. He served in the U.S. Navy, received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Engineering Mechanics from Georgia Tech and his PhD in Aeronautics from the California Institute of Technology. Dr. Starnes was the Chief Engineer for Structures & Materials at NASA Langley Research Center, where his career spanned 33 years. He was internationally recognized as an expert in the field of aerospace structures. His contributions can be seen on every aircraft that flies today. Many regarded him as the preeminent composite structures technology expert in the Nation and a national resource. He contributed directly to NASA investigations for the Space Shuttles Challenger and Columbia accidents and the International Space Station. He was also a technical advisor for other government agencies, industry and universities and represented NASA in the NATO Research and Technology Organization. He lead NASA's efforts on the National Transportation Safety Board's Failure Investigation of American Airlines Flight 587. He was awarded NASA's Exceptional Engineering Achievement Medal. He was a Fellow in the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics, the American Society for Composites, and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and a member of the Georgia Tech Academy of Distinguished Engineering Alumni. Dr. Starnes' legacy to aerospace technology is monumental. His colleagues expressed: ''Dr. Starnes is greatly remembered at NASA for his dedication to the agency, exemplary service, and positive attitude. He was recognized by his employees as an exceptional supervisor, mentor, and technical leader. He routinely demonstrated great technical breadth and depth, enthusiasm, and a willingness to listen. In addition, Dr. Starnes was masterful at motivating his employees to make contributions that far exceeded their own expectations. He gained the respect of everyone whose life he touched and profoundly influenced the careers and lives of many.'' Tom M. Wages Funeral Service, Inc., Snellville, GA 770/979-3200.
      