
        BIDWELL--Katharine O'Neil. The Board of Directors, artists and staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center are deeply saddened by the loss of Katharine O'Neil Bidwell, member of the Board since 1996, founder of our Patrons Program and the moving force behind a commissioning fund for new chamber music. Katharine was a charismatic and tireless champion of the arts. For her, nothing was impossible, and she inspired all of us who worked with her to greater efforts and acommplishments. All of her endeavors were marked by her personal elegance, grace and good humor. We will cherish her memory for her indomitable spirit and passionate commitment to chamber music. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, J. Truman Bidwell, and her family. Donaldson C. Pillsbury, Chairman Peter Frelinghuysen, President David Shifrin, Artistic Director Norma Hurlburt, Executive Director
        BIDWELL--Katharine O'Neil. New York City Opera and its General Director's Council mourn the death of Katharine Bidwell, the longtime Chair of of our Advisory Council and a beloved friend. Her clear vision, imagination, sense of humor, generosity, deep love of music, and unique gift for friendship invigorated and informed every encounter. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Truman and to her children Molly, Steve and Tom. She was a source of energy and inspiration for all of us, and she will be hugely missed. Irwin Schneiderman Chairman Mark Newhouse President Edmee de M. Firth Chair General Director's Council Paul Kellogg General Director
        BIDWELL--Katharine Thomas O'Neil. Sarah Lawrence College notes with profound sorrow the death of Katharine Thomas O'Neil Bidwell, president of the Sarah Lawrence Alumnae/i Association from 1974 to 1977 and trustee of the College from 1974 to 1985. She was a warm and spirited leader, a gracious and compelling fundraiser, and a devoted supporter of the central place of the arts at Sarah Lawrence. We extend our deep sympathy to all her family. Margot C. Bogert, Chairman of the Board Michele Tolela Myers, President
      