
        HOROWITZ--Linda. Truly beloved wife of Richard. Devoted and caring mother of Jill and Jeff Libshutz. Loving sister of Bruce and Randi Pergament, and the late Sherri Pergament Koeppel. Devoted daughter of the late Murray and Irene Pergament. Loving daughter-in-law of Grace and Sidney Horowitz, and sister-in-law of Joanne Horowitz. Your beauty, elegance, kind heart and wisdom touched the lives of your adoring family and every one else who knew you. Your courage and devotion has been an inspiration to your family and so many others. You will be in our hearts forever and always. Services will be held Monday, December 8, at 11 am, at Temple Beth El of Great Neck. Richard Horowitz, Jill and Jeff Libshutz
        HOROWITZ--Linda. We will miss your open arms and loving heart. Your dignity, class, sincerity and warmth were just a few of the qualities that endeared you to us. Thanks for sharing yourself all the time. Love, The Kalick Family
        HOROWITZ--Linda, We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Richie, Jill, Jeff, and Bruce and their families. Marilyn and Alvin
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of Linda Horowitz, wife of longtime Trustee Richard A. Horowitz. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire family. In addition to her husband, she is survived by one daughter, Jill Horowitz Libshutz and her husband Jeff Libshutz, and one brother, Bruce Pergament and his wife Randi, both loyal supporters of the Health System. Mrs. Horowitz was the daughter of the late Murray and Irene Pergament, both lifelong supporters of the Health System. Mrs. Horowitz was also predeceased by a sister, Sherry Pergament Koeppel. Roy J. Zuckerberg Chairman Michael Dowling President & CEO North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        HOROWITZ--Linda. The Tel Aviv Foundation wishes to express its profound sorrow to Richard, Jill and Jeff Libshutz, to Bruce and Randi Pergament, and the Koeppel and Pergament/Horowitz families at the untimely passing of Linda. No family should have to endure such tragedy. May the memories you cherish of Linda give you the strength to carry on. The Irene and Murray Pergament Writer's House and Gutman Museum in Neve Tzedek, an historical landmark in Tel Aviv, is a living legacy of the Pergament family--full of life and energy. Mayor Ron Huldai, Admiral (Res) Abraham Ben Shoshan, Meggie Navon and Jeannie Gerzon
        HOROWITZ--Linda. Friendship can only be measured in memories, laughter, peace, and love. Linda, you brought all of these things to our entire family for so many years. You were beautiful, dignified, courageous, and brave, an inspiration to all of us. Our hearts are broken. Our love goes out to you and our dear friends Richie, Jill and Jeff, and your entire family. We will keep your memory alive for generations to come. You were a once in a lifetime jewel in our lives. Rest in peace, dear friend. We will never forget you. Lissy and Allen Lauren and Phil Meryl and B.J.
        HOROWITZ--Linda. We are very sorry to see someone as special as you pass away so soon. You never had a bad word to say about anyone. Your smile and uplifting personality took over every room you ever walked into. You leave behind two marvelous children, Jill and Jeff. May all good things happen to them. Richie, our hearts go out to you. You were a devoted husband and a welcome addition to our family. Randi and Bruce, we are truly sorry for your loss. Our hearts go out to you. We will all miss you. Debbie, Andy, Lori, Howard and Arthur
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. We shared so much of life together for decades. We shall sorely miss your great sense of style, sweet, kind and gentle manner. Your battle was too difficult and we have always admired your strength, courage, dignity, grace and class. You have left us too soon, but the wonderful memories and teachings will remain forever in our thoughts. We will love you and think of you every day. Our heartfelt condolences to our friends Richie, Jill, Jeff and the entire Horowitz and Pergament families. Marilyn and Steve
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. We mourn the loss of our dearest friend, Linda. Her strength, style and beauty will always be with us. We will cherish the memories of our family trips from Florida to Puerto Rico and Colorado. February 21st will not be the same without you. Our hearts and prayers go out to Richie, Jill, Jeff, Bruce and their families. Old friends are the best friends. All our love, Betsy, Bob, Ned, Nancy and Stephen
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. The Board of Trustees of Children's Medical Fund of New York extends sincere condolences to Richard Horowitz, honorary Trustee and past President of our Men's Division, on the untimely death of his wife Linda. Our deepest sympathies to Richie, Jill and entire family. Dr. Richard Goldberg Chairman Children's Medical Fund of New York
        HOROWITZ--Linda. It's times like this that one always asks why do bad things happen to good people. To that there is little answer. Instead, look to her life and the beauty it gave her children Jill and Jeff, and her husband Richard and other family members. It's not necessary to dwell on why death was necessary, only the beauty that Linda's life gave us all. Lois Pergament Robert Pergament
        HOROWITZ--Linda P. We have lost our best friend. She fought to stay with her loving Jill and Richie to the very end. Our hearts are filled with sorrow, but she will always be with us. Our condolences to Richard, Jill and Jeff, Bruce and Randi Pergament, and her in-laws Sidney and Grace Horowitz, and sister-in-law Joanne. Jane and Marc Schorr
        HOROWITZ--Linda. We have lost a very special friend. Your grace, kindness and wit was a ray of sunshine in our lives. We will miss you terribly and will always keep your memory close to us. Our love and prayers go out to Richie, Jill, Jeff and your entire family. Amy, Tony, Alex and Madelaine
        HOROWITZ--Linda. We are so very saddened by Linda's untimely passing after a long and courageous battle. She will be missed by all who knew her. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to our dear friends Richie, Grace and Sidney, and their entire family. Ellie, Marty and Family
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. Cher ished friend. Your life affirms beauty and wisdom forever. You will always be in our hearts. Our deepest sypmathy to Richie, Jill and Jeff, Bruce and the entire families. Dina, Richard, Alison and Marc Schechter
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. Linda touched us with her warmth, courage and spirit. She was beautiful inside and out. Her memory will forever be an inspiration to us all. Diane, Frank, Dani, Ricki Lederman
        HOROWITZ -- Linda Per gament. You blessed our lives for over 30 years. You were the epitomy of a woman of valor and beauty. We loved you dearly. Rest in peace, sweet, dear Linda. Mom and Dad
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. To Richie, Jill and Jeff, our love, sympathy and empathy go out to each of you. We certainly understand your loss. Marshall, Jordan, Jessica and Jonathan
        HOROWITZ--Linda. My New York sister. Thirty years of sharing, advising, laughter, and love. You will forever be in my heart. Rest in peace. I love you. Marilyn
        HOROWITZ -- Linda Per gament. Goodbye, my beautiful sister. You filled a great void in my life that will last forever. You will always be in my heart. I love you. Joanne
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. Our beautiful, elegant friend. We'll miss you and you will be in our hearts forever. Love, Laurie and Stuart
      