
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. To our dearest husband and Dad from your five lucky girls. We are forever blessed with the love and life you showered upon us. There wasn't a time you weren't there and always knew we could count on you. Our hearts are broken and the void can never be filled. You will be cherished in our hearts forever and ever. We will always honor your memory and we will live our lives by the examples you set for us. You are our King of Hearts, our hero, we will love you forever. Jean, Susan, Bonnie, Carol, and Lois
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. Extraordinarily beloved husband of Jean. Most cherished father of Susan Zises Green, Bonnie S. Englebardt, Carol S. and Michael Weisman, Lois Robbins Zaro and Andrew Zaro. Adoring and revered grandfather of Lynn Zises, Justin H. Green, Danielle and Lara Englebardt, Brett and Jed Weisman, Alex, Olivia, Stephen and Victoria Zaro. Great-grandfather of Isabelle Zises Krugman. Services Sunday, 1pm, Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th and Madison Ave. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to honor his memory to the S.L.E. Foundation for Lupus Research, 149 Madison Ave., NY NY 10016. For further information call Plaza Community Jewish Chapel, 212-769-4400.
        STEINBERG -- Meyer. We deeply mourn the loss of our beloved grandfather, Meyer ''Mike'' Steinberg. A kind, generous, warm and loving man. We appreciated and adored him beyond comprehension. We can only hope to emulate in some small way his exemplary life. Thank you for loving us and showing us what's important. We love you and you will remain in our hearts always. Love, Lynn, Danielle, Justin, Lara, Brett, Alex, Jed, Olivia, Stephen, Victoria & Isabelle
        STEINBERG--Meyer (Mike). The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Mike Steinberg, who was deeply devoted to Jewish and humanitarian causes. Mike and his beloved wife, Jean, have expressed an unwavering commitment to UJA-Federation and the New York Jewish community. Long a leader at UJA-Federation, Mike was founding member and long-time chairman of the Long Island South Shore Campaign, and chair of the Real Estate Division. Mike's legacy of Jewish values and philanthropic spirit will live on through his children and grandchildren. We extend our deepest sympathies to Jean; to his daughters, Susan, Carol, Bonnie, and Lois; to his grandchildren; to his great-granddaughter, and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        STEINBERG -- Meyer (''Mike''). An unusually talented, brilliant and innovative business leader, husband, father, grandfather, greatgrandfather, philanthropist and genial friend. His generosity, warmth, and openness will be missed by many. His support of medical research provides hope for humanity. His humility of spirit was a stellar trait in his long, rich and fulfilling voyage of life. We extend our warmest sympathy to the entire Steinberg family. Ralph N. Wharton, M.D. and Family Executive Director, NPW Fund for Brain and Behavioral Research, Columbia University Medical Center
        STEINBERG--Meyer. We are devastated over the loss of our dear and cherished friend Mike Steinberg. His optimism and courage in the face of unspeakable odds was an inspiration to all who were privileged to know him. His kindness and warmth permeated all of his relationships and his character and integrity embraced us all. Our thoughts and prayers go out to Jean, Susan, Bonnie, Carol, Lois and their families on the loss of a most loving husband, devoted father and loyal friend. We will miss him forever. Shelby and Bill Modell and the entire Modell Family
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County mark with great sadness the passing of Meyer ''Mike'' Steinberg, a leading philanthropist and leader in the Jewish community of the greater Palm Beaches. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Jean, and their entire family. Judith A. Levy, President Jeffrey L. Klein, Exexutive Vice President
        STEINBERG -- Meyer. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Meyer ''Mike'' Steinberg, a long time advocate and supporter of the League's mission to combat anti-Semitism and prejudice. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved wife Jean, a member of ADL's Women's Division, and to the entire family. Barbara B. Balser National Chair Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        STEINBERG--Meyer. The Directors and staff of The S.L.E. Lupus Foundation and the Lupus Research Institute mourn the loss of our dear friend Mike Steinberg, a devoted champion in the fight to conquer lupus. We extend our deepest sympathies to the Steinberg family, his devoted wife Jean and his beloved daughters Bonnie, Carol, Lois, and Susan. Richard K. DeScherer President, The S.L.E. Lupus Foundation
        STEINBERG--Meyer. In Memory of Mike, who has always offered me his trust, his wisdom and his unequaled ethics. The confidence he showed in me at an early stage of my career is something that I have always been truly grateful for and will cherish always. I extend my deepest sympathies to his wife Jean, his wonderful children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. Sam Rosenblatt
        STEINBERG -- Meyer. The Gural Family would like to extend its deepest sympathies to the family of Meyer Steinberg. We were proud to call Meyer our friend and partner. He was a true humanitarian, a charitable person in every sense of the word, and his presence will be greatly missed. Our hearts go out to Jean, Susan, Bonnie, Carol, Lois and the entire Steinberg Family for their loss.
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. We deeply mourn the passing of our good friend, mentor and partner. His brilliance, generosity and wisdom will always be remembered. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Jean, his daughters, Susan, Bonnie, Carol and Lois, and all of his family and friends. Audrey McGuire and Ari Hirt Emax Securities, LLC
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike.'' Synagogue and spending time with your extended family during the holidays will never be the same. I will always miss our lively conversations, your winning wit and your endearing smile. Your friend, Stephen D. Oestreich
        STEINBERG--Meyer. Newmark and Company Real Estate wishes to extend its condolences to the Steinberg Family, on the loss of their husband, father and grandfather Meyer Steinberg. He was both a friend and partner, and he will be greatly missed.
        STEINBERG--M. ''Mike''. It is with deepest regret that we mourn the loss of a wonderful, caring person who entered our lives years ago and was a model friend, husband, father and leader of people. Our heart goes out to Jean and her beautiful family. Barbara and Philip Altheim
        STEINBERG--Meyer. To the Steinberg family, please know how much we will miss our dear friend Mike. He will always fill our hearts with loving memories. Evelyn, Ben, Carol, John, Susan, Michael
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike.'' A man for all seasons with an open hand and an open heart for all in need. To his devoted wife Jean, children and grandchildren, we extend our sincerest condolences. Love, Frances, George Greenberg
        STEINBERG--Meyer. We, at Cushman & Wakefield, mourn the loss of our friend Mike Steinberg. He was a man of wisdom, insight and great integrity. We extend our sincerest sympathy to his family.
        STEINBERG--Meyer. Mike was a man of great insight and understanding. My deepest sympathy to Jean, Susan, Bonnie, Carol and Lois, and the rest of the family. We will all miss him. Charles R. Borrok
        STEINBERG -- Meyer. The Partners, Associates and Staff of Goldberg Weprin & Ustin LLP are saddened by the loss of our dear friend, Mike. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family.
        STEINBERG--Meyer. We extend our love to the entire Steinberg family on Mike's passing. He will be missed by all. Cindie and Donald Kastenbaum
        STEINBERG--Meyer. I mourn the loss of my dear and treasured friend Mike. My condolences to his wife, Jean, and his daughters Susan, Bonnie, Carol and Lois. Sam Wulwick
        STEINBERG -- Mike. Dear friend, we'll miss you. Condolences to our dear Jeannie and family. The Schlessels, Adlers, Glickmans and Russos The Tacas
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. To Jean and his beloved children and grandchildren, our sincerest condolences. We will sorely miss our dear friend. Love, Laura and Artie Ratner
        STEINBERG--Meyer (Mike). My heartfelt sympathy to the Steinberg family on the their loss. Mike will be greatly missed by all his friends and associates. Norman F. Levy
        STEINBERG--Meyer. By his family for his love, by his employees for his generosity, by his fellow man for his philanthropy, Mike is sorely missed. Marc S. Goldberg
      