
        COULSTON--Dr. Frederick. 89, of Alamogordo, NM, died Monday, December 15, 2003, in Alamogordo. Dr. Coulston was born December 4, 1914 in New York City to Samuel and Celia Goldstein. He attended Syracuse University where he received his Bachelor's Degree in 1936, his Master's Degree in 1939, and his Doctorate in 1942. During WWII, he was active in the Human Malaria Project, a research program to discover new drugs for malaria. He developed and taught the concept that the malaria parasite acted on the host through its chemical action, both pharmacologically and toxicologically, and the host in turn acted upon the parasite through humoral and immunological mechanisms. This was the beginning of his introduction into modern toxicology. Dr. Coulston had a long, awardwinning career, including Director of Experimental Pathology and Toxicology at the Steeling-Winthrop Research Institute. For the Albany Medical College he served as Director of the Institute of Experimental Pathology and Toxicology, Professor of Pathology, Pharmacology and Toxicology, Director of the Animal Research facilities, and assisted in the development of the first hepatitis vaccine. He founded and served as Chairman of Coulston International Corporation and Coulston Products, Inc. which developed and marketed Permanone, used during Operation Desert Storm by the U.S. military. He served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Coulston Foundation which performed research on HIV, various vaccines and hepatitis C. He also served as Chairman of the Board of Diagnostic and Technology Center, Inc. Dr. Coulston was a unique individual who believed strongly in education and was continuously teaching people to the very end of his life. He taught many of today's scientists in the fields of toxicology, parasitology and pharmacology. He was a man with many, many accomplishments, honors and awards, but foremost a dedicated scientist. Through his research work, Dr. Coulston has touched the lives of many human beings throughout the world. He dedicated his life to the health of mankind. He published countless scientific articles and was editor for several scientific journals. His many professional honors included Co-Founder and President of the Society of Toxicology; member of the World Health Organization; member of the International Atomic Agency Commission of the United Nations; President of the International Society of Ecotoxicology and Environmental Safety; co-Chairman of the Human Health Aspects to Accidental Chemical Exposure of Dioxins; recipient of the Arnold J. Lehman Award; President of the International Society of Regulary Toxicology and Pharmacology; co-author and sponsor of banning cyanide gold processing; and recipient of Businessman of the Year in 2002, given by President George W. Bush. Survivors include his son, Craig Wynn Coulston of Tularosa; his daughter, Cynthia Ann Oxley and her husband Lloyd of Dallas; two grandchildren, Eileen Marie Coker and her husband Christopher of Garland, Texas, and Michael Lloyd Oxley of Dallas; and two very special friends, Robbie Kayhart and Mary Villegas of Alamogordo. Funeral services will be conducted Monday, December 22, 2003, in the HamiltonO'Dell Chapel with F. Randolph Burroughs officiating. Interment will follow in Monte Vista Cemetery. For further information Hamilton-O Dell Funeral Home, Alamogordo, NM (505) 437-0530. To send a tribute to the family, please visit www.mem.com.
      