
        ESTESS--Jenifer. The Estess family and the entire Project A.L.S. organization and friends are mourning the loss of Jenifer Estess. Jenifer passed away on Tuesday morning, December 16, 2003 in her home, after a long and courageous struggle with ALS. Jenifer fought this disease, as she lived her life, with dignity and courage. She was an inspiration to all who knew her and countless others who were afflicted with ALS and other neurological disorders. Jenifer's dream was that, someday, there would be a cure for ALS and the related diseases of Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, and Huntington's. She devoted her energy to making that dream a reality. She knew that progress in finding a cure would take years and would likely come too late for her. Her wish was that Project A.L.S. would go on and that all of us would fight this disease for years to come until a cure is found. To the thousands of Project A.L.S. supporters, we pledge to honor Jenifer by continuing the fight to find a cure for this dreaded disease. Through the efforts of the world's leading doctors, researchers and with your support, we look forward to continuing this fight until a cure is found. Services will be held on Friday, December 19th at 3PM at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76th Street. Donations can be made to Project A.L.S. and mailed to Project A.L.S. 511 Avenue of the Americas, PMB 341, NY, NY 10011. Robert S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board of Project A.L.S. Peter J. Hulbert, Co-Chairman of the Board of Project A.L.S. Board of Directors, Project A.L.S.
        ESTESS--Jenifer. The ALS Association is saddened by the passing of Jenifer Estess, founder of Project A.L.S and leading voice in the fight againt Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. Jenifer's tireless and creative efforts, accomplished while battling ALS, have contributed greatly to research funding and to raising public awareness of the disease. It is with special pride that the Association's National Office joins the greater New York Chapter in saluting Jenifer's extraordinary courage. Her superb leadership along with her sisters Valerie, Meredith and Alison, and friend Julianne, has left a major legacy in the search for a cure for ALS. The path Jenifer chose in mobilizing the entertainment industry and other influential individuals to find the cure and treatments of ALS serves as an inspirational model for people with ALS and the entire ALS community. The ALS association is committed to the mission that Jenifer embraced and believes that her efforts on behalf of those with this disease will be carried forward with perserverance and dedication. The ALS Association Greater NY Chapter Alan R. Griffith, Chairman John L. Ernst Chairman Emeritus Dorine Gordon, Pres Jacqueline Reinhard Executive Director Robert J. Bjorseth, Chairman Natl Board of Trustees Allen L. Finkelstein Chairman Elect
        ESTESS--Jenifer. The Company, Board of Directors and Staff of Naked Angels Theater Company mourn the loss, honor the life and cherish the memory of our very dear friend, Jenifer Estess. Jen's passion for life, for art, her pursuit of excellence in all things is a flame that will forever inspire us & keep us warm. We miss her deeply.
        ESTESS--Jenifer. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Valerie and Meredith on the passing on their much beloved sister, Jenifer. To Peter, who gave us the opportunity to know this courageous woman and her family, our fight will continue in Jenifer's memory in support of Project ALS. Gloria and Howard Hirsch
        ESTESS--Jenifer. My only wish is that you knew how much you gave to all of us. You were the bravest of anyone I've ever known. Honey Seltzer
        ESTESS--Jenifer. You inspired us all and your family showed us what the meaning of family really is. Robin and Fred Seegal
      