
        LOVE--Freeman Donnellon, M.D. Age 91, surrounded by family, in Danbury, CT. on December 26, 2003. Former resident of Sandy Hook, CT., Brooklyn Heights and Goshen, NY. Devoted and beloved husband of 62 years of Andree Walton. Cherished father of Francis W. Love (Lorrie Barstow), Peter W. Love (Gael Malkenson), Georgette Love and Patsey Love. Cherished uncle and loving guardian of Margot Marshall, Lucinda Marshall Tyler, Robert Marshall and Constance Marshall Verhulst. Adored grandfather of Heather Denise Love, Graham Hamilton Love, Page Lyle Love, Freeman Donnellon Love II, and Rachel Walton Love. Adored granduncle of Andree and Otto Verhulst, and Sam Marshall-Harvey. He was predeceased by his seven brothers and sisters: Grace Blust; Cornelius Ruxton Love, Jr.; Harriet Smith; Richard Love; his twin brother Robert; Hamilton Love; and Margretta Marshall. Born in Brooklyn Heights in 1913, Dr. Love was the son of Cornelius Ruxton Love, M.D. and Grace Anderson Smith. He attended Poly Prep Country Day School Class of 1933, Brown University Class of 1937, and Cornell Medical School. Dr. Love served with distinction in the Army Medical Corps during WWII where he attained the rank of Major. He was attached to the 71st Armored Division. His unit spearheaded the liberation of POW and concentration camps in Germany and Austria. Upon return from the war, he joined his father's practice in general medicine in Brooklyn Heights, and was associated with Samaritan, Brooklyn, Long Island College, and Kings County Hospital, where he served as Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine. He retired from general practice in the late 1960's and became Medical Director of the Morgan Guarantee Trust Co., retiring in 1982. He was the only person to be elected member of both the Medical Club of New York and the Medical Club of Brooklyn during that time. Dr. Love was a trustee emeritus of Poly Prep CDS and a founding board member of St. Anne's School in Brooklyn Heights. Dr. Love was a man of the highest integrity. His wit, sense of duty and love of family will be sorely missed by those close to him and others lucky enough to have known him. He returns with honor. Services private. Donations in his name may be made to Poly Prep CDS Scholarship Fund or the charity of your choice.
      