
        BLUMENTHAL--Isidor of Far Rockaway, NY, passed away on the eve of his 94th birthday on December 9th, 2003. Devoted husband of 67 years to Ann (Chanchy). Beloved father of Reuben and Beth, Deborah and Rabbi Marvin Bash, David and Barbara, as well as seven grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren. Beloved brother of Bernard and May Blumenthal, Sam and Melanie Blumenthal, George (z'l) and Rose Blumenthal, Murray(z'l), Molly (z'l) Levine, Solomon (z'l) and Rosalind (z'l) Elbaum. Born in 1909 in Ansonia, Connecticut, he exemplified a life that combined Orthodox Jewish traditions and Yankee charm. He was active in many Jewish causes including serving in leadership roles at Congregation Sons of Israel, Yeshiva Ohel Moshe and the Jewish Community House in Bensonhurst, Congregation Kneseth Israel, Congregation Shaare Tfilah and Yeshiva B'nai Torah of Far Rockaway, and the Atlantic and Long Beach Jewish Center. He was a tireless fundraiser for Shaare Tzedek Hospital in Jerusalem. But the gift he leaves with us was his love of family and his determination to keep his evergrowing extended family in close touch. His favorite adage, among many, was ''Family is life and life is family.'' Services will be today, Wednesday, December 10th 11:30 A.M. at The BoulevardRiverside Chapels, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, NY.
        BLUMENTHAL--Isidor. The Lion Brand Yarn Company and Orchard Yarn and Thread Company, Inc. mourn the loss of our president and patriarch. Serving as president from 1958 until his death on December 9, 2003, he built these companies into leading suppliers of quality knitting and crocheting yarns throughout the United States. Under his leadership, Lion Brand Yarn Company helped transform knitting and crocheting from quaint crafts into hobbies which are intrinsic to today's lifestyle. His innovations in distribution, product line diversity and marketing efforts are still noteworthy today. But his most important contributions to our success were the lessons he imparted in business ethics and values, and the importance of preserving harmony in the context of a family business. True to his love of American entrepreneurialism and Jewish tradition, he inspired us all when he quoted Ecclesiastes, ''a good name is more precious than riches.'' We owe the good name of Lion Brand Yarn Company and Orchard Yarn and Thread Company, Inc., to him. With great sadness and abiding respect, Orchard Yarn and Thread Company Inc., Lion Brand Yarn Company and the Blumenthal Family
        BLUMENTHAL -- Isidor. Deepest sympathy to the Blumenthal family. A Silver Founder with his beloved wife Ann, Isidor raised his children and lived his life according to the highest values of Jewish tradition and ethics. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, President Sidney Adler, Treasure Lee Weinbach, Secretary Paul S. Glasser, Nat'l Dir
        BLUMENTHAL--Isidore. The Trustees, Board of Directors and friends of the Warm Up America Foundation note with great sorrow the passing of Isidore Blumenthal, father of David, President of our Foundation. Isidore's leadership and commitment to charitable works helped build our industry and this organization. Our thoughts and prayers are with the entire Blumenthal family. The Trustees of the Warm Up America Found.
        BLUMENTHAL--Isidor. With deep sorrow we mourn the passing of our dear uncle Isidor. He was a dedicated community and business leader, who supported many noble causes and taught by example. Our condolences to aunt Chanchy and the entire family. May his memory serve as a blessing. Janice and Alan Blumenthal and family
        BLUMENTHAL--Isidor. Our uncle and grandfather figure, he taught by example a passionate belief in integrity, honesty, fairness and the value of family. His wise words and guiding presence will be greatly missed. Rose Blumenthal, Dean and Gale, Jack and Lynne, Joseph and Sarah, Sidney and families
      