
        RIGLER--Lloyd E. NACOEJ, the North American Conference on Ethiopian Jewry, deeply mourns the loss of our dear friend, mentor and most generous patron whose loving concern for Ethiopian Jews has helped sustain this ancient Jewish community. The Rigler-Deutsch Feeding Centers in NACOEJ Compounds in Addis Ababa and Gondar, Ethiopia, daily serve thousands of nourishing meals to destitute and malnourished Jewish women and children, enabling them to survive famine, disease and poverty while waiting to make Aliyah. Lloyd will be sorely missed and always remembered and blessed by Ethiopian Jews and all who work on their behalf. Dr. Judith L. Wolf, President Richard and Middie Giesberg, Past President/Chairperson Joseph Feit, Past President Barbara Ribakove Gordon, Founder/Director Ricki Lieberman, Chief Operating Officer Andrew Goldman, Dir. of Ethiopia Programs
        RIGLER--Lloyd E. New York City Opera mourns the passing of its long-time Co-Chairman, Lloyd Rigler. A member of City Opera's Board since 1978, Mr. Rigler was a driving force behind City Opera's efforts to make opera accessible and affordale to the widest possible audience-especially to students. For 16 years, along with his late business partner, Lawrence E. Deutsch, he sponsored the Company's annual four-week tour to Los Angeles. In recent years, as a Founder and driving force behind ''Classic Arts Showcase'', he continued this mission for a broad television public as well. His vitality, keen intelligence, determination, and commitment to his beliefs were an inspiration to us all. We will miss him terribly and extend our most heartfelt sympathy to his nephew James and to his many friends. Paul Kellogg General Director New York City Opera
        RIGLER--Lloyd E. We mourn the passing of this great patron of the arts, a lifelong friend of George London and and a supporter of the George London Foundation. Our condolences go to James Rigler and the Rigler family. Nora London, President George London Foundation for Singers
      