
        RUBINSTEIN -- Irving. Pres ident of the United Leather Goods Corporation, second career Madison Gallery. Graduate of Columbia School of Business. Founding member of Brae Burn Country Club, Purchase, NY, and member of Hamlet Country Club, Del Ray Beach, FL. Primary charitable institutions: Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Jewish Braille Institute. Beloved husband of Florence. Supportive god children, nieces, nephews and extended family. Private services, private interment and private shiva.
        RUBINSTEIN--Irving. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a beloved friend, Benefactor and esteemed member of our Board of Overseers. We will miss his sharp intellect and his warm smile. For more than three decades, Irving and his wife, Florence, passionately supported our programs in medical education and biomedical research-Irving as a member of our Men's Division, Florence as a member of our National Women's Division. Their dedication to our mission is exemplified by their endowment of a professorial chair in neuroscience and a laboratory in genetic technology. To Florence and the family, we offer our most heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Linda Altman, President National Women's Division Neil A. Clark, Chairman Men's Division
        RUBINSTEIN--Irving. A man of integrity, strong character and noble spirit. An individualist never running with the herd. Quietly generous, living life to the fullest, understanding adversity with great fortitude. Many of his sterling qualities hidden within himself. His soul shining like a beacon of life sustainingly and enriching my life. Together always, never too much. Now bereft on this final journey. May he be blessed with the many rewards he justly deserves. Always Yours, Flo (Florence Ash Rubinstein)
        RUBINSTEIN--Irving. JBI International (formerly the Jewish Braille Institute) is deeply saddened by the passing our long time trustee, Irving Rubinstein. Our heartfelt condolences go to his wife Florence and to his family. His compassion for the Jewish blind and visually impaired touched all of us and will be long remembered. Barbara B. Friedman, Pres Dr. Jane Evans, Hon. Pres Dr. Ellen Isler, EVP
        RUBINSTEIN--Irving. We are heartbroken over the loss of our beloved friend Irving. Florence and Irving have become an integral part of our family and our love goes out to her. We will always remember Irvy. Rita & Philip Rosen, Phyllis, Wendy, Robert, Michael, Stephanie & all their children
        RUBINSTEIN--Irving. We will miss our dear Irv. His humor and generosity inspired all of us. He was a wonderful friend who will never be forgotten. Our deepest condolences to Florence and Donna. Carole and Al Schragis
      