
        BARKSDALE--Sally. MS philanthropist and education advocate, Sally McDonnell Barksdale, has died in Jackson, MS at the age of 60. She is survived by her husband of 38 years, Internet pioneer and former Netscape CEO, James (Jim) Love Barksdale. She is also survived by her children: Susan Barksdale Howorth and husband, Judge Andrew K. Howorth and grandchildren Marian and Stewart of Oxford; Betsy Barksdale Pokorny and husband, John Pokorny and grandchildren, Max, James and Sarah of Winter Park, Florida; and John David Barksdale of New York City. In January of 2000, Sally and Jim Barksdale created a $100 million dollar endowment to establish the successful Barksdale Reading Institute. Their generosity focused solely on improving the literacy skills of under-resourced Mississippi children in the third grade and below. It remains the largest private gift to early childhood literacy in this nation's history. Among Sally and Jim's philanthropic gifts, they also established the McDonnell - Barksdale Honors College endowment at The University of MS, as well as the Two Sisters Scholarship Fund at Goodwill Industries of MS. They also created at the University of MS Medical Center full medical scholarships for African American students. Sally was also on the Board of The University of Mississippi Foundation and The Jackson State University Development Board. She was a founding member of the Ole Miss Women's Council. She was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Public Service Degree from Millsaps College, The University of MS Humanitarian Award; the Friends of Education Award by the Mississippi Association of School Administrators, and the Phi Beta Kappa Certificate of Appreciation. A celebration of Sally's life will be held at St. James Episcopal Church at 3921 Oak Ridge Drive, Jackson, MS at 2:00 P.M. on Thursday, December 11, 2003. Visitation with the family will begin at 12 noon in the church parish hall. The Barksdale family requests that in lieu of flowers, gifts may be made to the charity of their choice or to the Ole Miss Women's Council (Sally McDonnell Barksdale Memorial) of the University of Mississippi Foundation, P.O. Box 249, University, MS 38677.
      