
        STEVENSON -- Isabelle Lu bow. 1913-2003. Of New York City. Wife of 64 years of John A. Stevenson (who predeceased her), mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, aunt and Chairman of the American Theater Wing, an organization she has been with for over 40 years. She leaves her beloved daughters, Susan M. Brown of New York City, Laura S. Maslon (James) of Venice, CA; her niece Francine Ringold-Johnson (Manly) of Tulsa, OK; her grandsons, David S. Brown, Ethan W. Brown; greatgranddaughter Ella; greatnieces and nephews Leslie, John, James and Suzanne and their children. Friend and supporter of the theater for more than 60 years. Services will be held Tuesday, December 30, at 2 pm, at All Souls Unitarian Church, 1157 Lexington Ave. Instead of flowers, contributions should be made to the American Theater Wing.
        STEVENSON -- Isabelle Lu bow. Beloved leader of the American Theatre Wing. Board member since 1957, President from 1966 and Chairman from 1998, an unceasing champion and unparalleled aficionado of excellence in the theatre. In her remarkable tenure, she oversaw 37 years of Tony Awards and the Wing's annual grants program to NY not-for-profit theatres, and created the long-running seminar series on working in the theatre, as well as outreach programs in NY hospitals and schools. She received a Special Tony for Lifetime Achievement in 1999 and was inducted into the Theatre Hall of Fame in 2001. Her boundless enthusiasm and love for theatre is an example to every theater goer and will be a hallmark of the Wing in perpetuity. The Board of Directors and the staff of the American Theatre Wing
        STEVENSON--Isabelle. City University Television is saddened by the passing of its longtime friend and cable television partner, Isabelle Stevenson. She was a gallant and gracious lady whose passion for and commitment to the American Theatre inspired all who knew her work. Her contributions to public education and professional development through thirty years of the American Theatre Wing ''Working in the Theatre'' seminars have enriched audiences and documented three decades of Broadway history. We extend our sincere condolences to her family and to her colleagues at the American Theatre Wing. Robert Isaacson, Executive Director City University Television
        STEVENSON -- Isabelle Lu bow. The Board, staff and members of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York (A.R.T./New York), mourn the passing of Isabelle Stevenson, Chairman of the American Theater Wing. A great lady of the theater, Isabelle was a true benefactor, working on behalf of the theater and in the service of thousands of actors, directors, playwrights, designers, theater companies, producers, and above all--audiences--for more than 60 years. Our deepest condolences go to her daughters, Susan Brown and Laura Maslon, her niece Francine Ringold-Johnson, and their families, as well as the Board and staff of the American Theater Wing.
        STEVENSON--Isabelle. Tony Award Productions mourns the passing of Isabelle Stevenson, longtime president and later chairman of the American Theatre Wing. Mrs. Stevenson's tireless and enduring leadership elevated the Tony Awards to the highest standards of excellence. She was a passionate advocate for the theatre. Among her many honors, she received a Special Tony Award for Lifetime Achievement in 1999. We send our deepest condolences to her family and to all those whose lives she touched. Tony Award Productions
        STEVENSON--Isabelle. The President, Chairman, and Board of Governors of the League of American Theatres and Producers join with the entire membership of the League and the rest of the American theatre community in remembering Isabelle Stevenson, late chairman of the American Theatre Wing. This remarkable woman was a colleague, a friend, and a tireless champion of theatrical excellence. Though she will be deeply missed, her legacy will endure for many decades. The League of American Theatres and Producers, Inc.
        STEVENSON -- Isabelle. Here's to the memory of our indomitable and feisty Isabelle, who lived life to the fullest, who inspired all who knew her, and who was a positive force in everything she did. We shall miss her very much. Bill and Pat and Ron and Isobel Konecky
        STEVENSON--Isabelle. The lights are dimmer on Broadway without you. Your energy, passion and love for the theatre can never be replaced. We have lost a wonderful friend. Sondra Gilman & Doug Leeds
      