
        MULHEREN--John A. Jr, on December 15, 2003. Beloved husband of Nancy (nee) Baird, loving father of Alexander B. ''Sandy'', Clark A, Timothy K, Wyatt G, Nora K, Dakota L, Harley T, brother Michael W. and sisters Maureen Mulheren, Colleen A. Wood, Patricia M. Skinner and Katherine M. Cabrera. John was greatly admired for his deep devotion to humanitarian causes and improving the lives of the less fortunate. John will be remembered for his vibrant personality and for his kind efforts. Visitation, Friday 10:00-11:00 AM at Holy Cross RC Church, 30 Ward Ave, Rumson, NJ. A celebration of John's life will be held Friday at 11:00 AM Holy Cross RC Church. Interment Mt. Olivet Cemetery, Middletown, New Jersey. Donations in his memory can be mailed to, JAM Anonymous Foundation, c/o Rumson Management, 95 Ave of Two Rivers, Rumson, NJ 07760 to continue in John's philanthropic tradition.
        MULHEREN--John A., Jr. A prince among men, John Mulheren's untimely passing is a tragic and sudden loss for many. A visionary of the ''Street,'' I will miss his brilliant mind, but moreover, his large and giving heart. John was devoted not only to many causes, but to his community and loving family. What he did for others remains a lasting testimony to his remarkable character. I was proud to be his friend and partner. It can truly be said that ''only the good die young.'' I extend my deepest sympathies to Nancy and the entire Mulheren family. S. Donald Sussman
        MULHEREN--John A. The Board and Staff of the New York Legal Assistance Group (NYLAG) mourn the passing of John A. Mulheren, philanthropist. In addition to his contributions to many worthwhile causes, we will forever remember the invaluable support he provided to NYLAG. He will be sorely missed. Kathryn O. Greenberg, Esq., Founder and Honorary Chair
        MULHEREN -- John. The Board of Directors of The Centurion Foundation mourns the passing of a cherished friend, who was greatly admired for his kindness and extraordinary generosity. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Nancy and the entire Mulheren family.
      