
        FISHER--Andrew. Our hearts go out to our esteemed Board Member and Benefactor Emily Fisher Landau, on the tragic loss of her grandson. To Mrs. Landau, who established the Fisher Landau Center for the Treatment of Learning Disabilities at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and was a founding member of its National Women's Division, and to the entire family, we offer our most heartfelt sympathy. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Mary S. Kelly, Ph.D., Director Fisher Landau Center for the Treatment of Learning Disabilities
        FISHER--Andrew M. We are deeply saddened and terribly shocked at the sudden death of our 22 year old nephew, who had just finished college and was at the beginning of his most promising life. Our condolences go out to our brother Richard Fisher and to Andrew's mother Laura. This is a tragedy for our entire family and we can only accept what is not easily understood. Condolences from Gwen and Lester Fisher, and cousins, Cheryl, Craig, Brian, Casey and Kyle Fisher, and Irma Fisher Mann and Dr. Norman Stearns, and cousins Robert and Elizabeth Mann.
        FISHER--Andrew. The partners and professionals of Berdon LLP wish to express their deep sympathy and grief to Richard and Laura Fisher and their children Alexandra, Hadley and Winston on the untimely death of Andrew, on November 27. We express our condolences not only as business associates and friends, but also as fathers, mothers, brothers and sisters, who feel for you at this time of grief. To the entire Fisher family and Andrew's friends, we wish peace and solace.
        FISHER--Andrew. The Officers and Directors of Realty Foundation of New York extend their heartfelt condolences to Richard and the entire Fisher family at this terribly sad time. You are in our prayers, you are in our thoughts. May strength and comfort be with you in all the days ahead. Larry A. Silverstein Chairman Jerry L. Cohen President Officers and Directors
        FISHER--Andrew. The entire Lincoln Center family mourns the loss of Andrew Fisher, the son of our distinguished Board member, Richard. We extend our sympathies to Richard Fisher and the entire Fisher family. Bruce Crawford, Chairman Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        FISHER--Andrew. My heart is broken. I love you. You were a wonderful grandson. I will think of you and miss you for the rest of my life. Emily Fisher Landau
      