
        RIGLER--Lloyd E. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society are deeply saddened by the loss of Lloyd E. Rigler of Burbank, CA. A generous and steadfast friend, he became a Technion Guardian, achieving the highest level of commitment to the American Technion Society, the Technion and Israel. He established the Lloyd Rigler Sleep Research Fund, which supports the work of the Technion's world-renowned sleep research scientist, Prof. Peretz Lavie. A successful entrepreneur, he and his business partner Lawrence E. Deutsch made their fortune as founders of Adolf's Meat Tenderizer. They provided major support for the arts, including institutions such as the New York City Opera and Carnegie Hall, and created the Classic Arts Showcase, a public television program to stimulate interest in the arts, through the Lloyd Rigler and Lawrence E. Deutsch Foundation. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mr. Rigler's nephew, Jamie Rigler, sister Audre Estrin and the entire Rigler family. American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Dr. Stephen A. Laser, President Evelyn Berger, Chairman of the Board Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Joan Seidel, President, Southern California Chapter Diane Siegel, Director, Western Region
        RIGLER--Lloyd E. New York City Opera mourns the passing of its long-time Co-Chairman, Lloyd Rigler. A member of City Opera's Board since 1978, Mr. Rigler was a driving force behind City Opera's efforts to make opera accessible and affordale to the widest possible audience-especially to students. For 16 years, along with his late business partner, Lawrence E. Deutsch, he sponsored the Company's annual four-week tour to Los Angeles. In recent years, as a Founder and driving force behind ''Classic Arts Showcase'', he continued this mission for a broad television public as well. His vitality, keen intelligence, determination, and commitment to his beliefs were an inspiration to us all. We will miss him terribly and extend our most heartfelt sympathy to his nephew James and to his many friends. Paul Kellogg General Director New York City Opera
        RIGLER--Lloyd. The Board of The Richard Tucker Music Foundation mourns Lloyd Rigler and pays tribute to his incredible achievements supporting young artists and opera in America. We extend our deepest condolences to his nephew, Jamie, and the Rigler family. Barry Tucker, President Jeffrey Tabak, Chairman
      