
        WINDMULLER--John Philip. The Martin P. Catherwood Professor of Industrial and Labor Relations Emeritus at Cornell University, died on December 2, 2003 at Kendal in Ithaca, NY following a long illness. John Windmuller was born on December 4, 1923 in Dortmund, Germany, son of Solomon and Bertha (nee Kahn) Windmuller. He left Germany on a children's transport in December 1938 after having been held for four days by the Gestapo. He was a passenger on the ill-fated voyage of the St. Louis and came to the United States in 1942. He served in the U.S. Army from 1943 to 1946, was active in postwar relief work on behalf of children in war-devastated European countries, and graduated with a B.A. degree from the University of Illinois in 1948. He then undertook graduate work in the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University, receiving a doctoral degree in 1951 when he was appointed to the Cornell faculty. In 1983 he became the first holder of the Martin P. Catherwood Chair in Industrial and Labor Relations, and in 1987 he was named Professor-emeritus. He continued to teach for several years after his retirement. As a teacher, he had the satisfaction of seeing several of his students embark on careers in international industrial relations. Throughout his academic career Professor Windmuller was actively engaged in research, usually on subjects with a significant international or comparative aspect. He took a special interest in the operation of labor organizations, employers associations and collective bargaining systems. He also served on several editorial boards of academic journals and the Cornell University Press. For a book on Labor Relations in the Netherlands (1969) the Dutch government awarded him a medal. For many years, Professor Windmuller contributed to the development of international programs and activities in Cornell's School of Industrial and Labor Relations, and from 1961 to 1964 he served as its Director of International Activities. He also served as Associate Dean of the School from 1975 to 1977. On two occasions he held senior positions in the International Labor Organization in Geneva, Switzerland, chiefly to prepare a study of Collective Bargaining in Industrialized Market Economies. John Windmuller is survived by Ruth, his wife of 56 years; a daughter Betsey Roberts (Neil) of Los Angeles; a son, Thomas (Cathy Overly) of Geneva, Switzerland; and a grandson (Jonathan) also of Geneva.
      