
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. To our dearest husband and Dad from your five lucky girls. We are forever blessed with the love and life you showered upon us. There wasn't a time you weren't there and always knew we could count on you. Our hearts are broken and the void can never be filled. You will be cherished in our hearts forever and ever. We will always honor your memory and we will live our lives by the examples you set for us. You are our King of Hearts, our hero, we will love you forever. Jean, Susan, Bonnie, Carol, and Lois
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. Extraordinarily beloved husband of Jean. Most cherished father of Susan Zises Green, Bonnie S. Englebardt, Carol S. and Michael Weisman, Lois Robbins Zaro and Andrew Zaro. Adoring and revered grandfather of Lynn Zises, Justin H. Green, Danielle and Lara Englebardt, Brett and Jad Weisman, Alex, Olivia, Stephen and Victoria Zaro. Great-grandfather of Isabelle Zises Krugman. Services Sunday, 1pm, Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th and Madison Ave. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to honor his memory to the S.L.E. Foundation for Lupus Research, 149 Madison Ave., NY NY 10016. For further information call Plaza Community Jewish Chapel, 212-769-4400.
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. An admired friend, extraordinary entrepreneur, beloved family leader, husband, father, grandfather and greatgrandfather. To know him as I did, father of my dearest Bonnie Englebardt, was a special privilege. His success in the business world was outstanding, but it never interfered with his role as the family patriarch. The risks that he took in his business life were always motivated by his desire to protect his family's security. His love of family extended as well to philanthropy. He supported Israel's survival and the fight to cure Lupus disease, among many other programs to help the needy. He was a special human being, someone I cared deeply about, and his memory will be forever an inspiration to all who knew him. Frank R. Lautenberg United States Senator
        STEINBERG--Meyer. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Jean, his daughters Susan, Bonnie, Carol and Lois and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President
        STEINBERG--Meyer. The Directors and staff of The S.L.E. Lupus Foundation and the Lupus Research Institute mourn the loss of our dear friend Mike Steinberg, a devoted champion in the fight to conquer lupus. We extend our deepest sympathies to the Steinberg family, his devoted wife Jean and his beloved daughters Bonnie, Carol, Lois, and Susan. Richard K. DeScherer President, The S.L.E. Lupus Foundation
        STEINBERG -- Meyer. The Gural Family would like to extend its deepest sympathies to the family of Meyer Steinberg. We were proud to call Meyer our friend and partner. He was a true humanitarian, a charitable person in every sense of the word, and his presence will be greatly missed. Our hearts go out to Jean, Susan, Bonnie, Carol, Lois and the entire Steinberg Family for their loss.
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. The Board of Governors and the members of The Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Meyer ''Mike'' Steinberg. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Jean and family. Ted Markson, President
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. We are heartbroken at the passing of our dear friend. Mike had great courage, accomplishment and was a generous philanthropist. Our condolences to his beloved wife Jean and family. He will be missed but not forgotten. Elma and Milton Gilbert
        STEINBERG--Meyer. Newmark and Company Real Estate wishes to extend its condolences to the Steinberg Family, on the loss of their husband, father and grandfather Meyer Steinberg. He was both a friend and partner, and he will be greatly missed.
        STEINBERG--M. ''Mike''. It is with deepest regret that we mourn the loss of a wonderful, caring person who entered our lives years ago and was a model friend, husband, father and leader of people. Our heart goes out to Jean and her beautiful family. Barbara and Philip Altheim
        STEINBERG -- Meyer. Our deepest condolences to the Steinberg family on the loss of their beloved husband, father, grandfather, and great grandfather. Mike was a man of great fortitude and charity and he will be missed. The Zises family
        STEINBERG--Meyer ''Mike''. To Jean and his beloved children and grandchildren, our sincerest condolences. We will sorely miss our dear friend. Love, Laura and Artie Ratner
        STEINBERG--Meyer (Mike). My heartfelt sympathy to the Steinberg family on the their loss. Mike will be greatly missed by all his friends and associates. Norman F. Levy
      