
        MURPHY -- George Arthur, age 97, former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Irving Trust Company (now the Bank of New York) and former Chairman of the Board of NYU, died December 2, 2003 at his home in Washington, CT. His banking career spanned 39 years as a corporate director in New York banking and business institutions. His business institutional service included the presidency of the New York State Banker's Association, the chairmanship of the Better Business Bureau of New York, the presidency of the Advisory Council of the Federal Reserve system and the management, and ultimately the chairmanship of the multi-billion dollar UN Pension Fund. He was a former Chairman and Life Trustee of the New York University Board of Trustees. In his retirement, he was an inspirational leader at St. John's Episcopal Church and the Steep Rock Land Trust in Washington, CT. Mr. Murphy is survived by his wife, Ruth Bybee Murphy of Indianapolis, IN, two daughters, Louise M. Johnson of Concord, MA and Jean M. Smith of Cambridge, MA, two sons-in-law, seven grandchildren, and five great grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held on Friday, December 19, 2003 at 11:00 a.m. at St. John's Episcopal Church, Washington, CT. In lieu of flowers, contributions in Mr. Murphy's memory may be made to St. John's Episcopal Church, PO Box 1278, Washington, CT 06793 or to the Steep Rock Association, Inc., PO Box 279, Washington Depot, CT 06794
        MURPHY--George. The NYU community grieves for the loss of its longtime friend, George Murphy. During his decades of association with NYU--as a law student, alumnus, trustee, and trustee chairman--he showed great devotion to the University, generously sharing his wisdom, time, and leadership. It was during his tenure as chairman that the University received the gift that enabled us to build Bobst Library, a turning point in transforming NYU into the university it is today. The admiration he received in the world of business was shared at this University, and it is matched by our gratitude. He will be greatly missed. Our hearts go out to his wife, Ruth, and the rest of his family, loved ones and friends. Martin Lipton, Chairman NYU Board of Trustees John Sexton President, NYU
      