
        BLANK--Blanche Davis. 80. December 19, 2003. Acting President, Dean of Social Sciences, Professor of Political Science, Hunter College; Vice-President, Yeshiva University. Blanche was the center of a large and loving family, whose motto for living was ''carpe diem.'' She was an extraordinary role model for her family, friends, and students. Her originality, commitment to justice, and independent spirit were inspirational to all. She will be sorely missed. She is survived by her husband Bud; daughters, Laura, Barbara, and Alice; sons-in-law, Steven Simkin, Barry Shapiro, and David Udell; and grandchildren, Alexander Simkin, Zachary Simkin, and Julia Udell. Those wishing to make contributions may send them to Hunter College for the Blanche D. Blank Endowed Scholar for Public Policy Fund. A memorial service will be held in the Harold Lewis Auditorium at the Hunter College School of Social Work, 129 E. 79th St, on January 22, at 4 pm, followed by a reception. The family will be sitting shiva Sunday through Thursday, December 21-25, 5-9 pm, at Premium Point, New Rochelle.
        BLANK--Blanche Davis. The Hunter College community notes with sorrow the passing of our distinguished colleague and friend. A graduate of Hunter High School and Hunter College, Dr. Blank had a long and illustrious career with Hunter College culminating with her tenure as the College's acting president from 1993 to 1995. She guided the school with wisdom and calm during a difficult financial time. Having begun her career at Hunter as Professor of Political Science in 1953, she also served as the Dean of Social Sciences from 1972 to 1977 and was a current member of the Hunter College Foundation Board of Trustees. Dr. Blank established a number of student awards and scholarships, as well as the Blanche D. Blank Endowed Chair for Public Policy. She was happy to learn that the first Chair is her former student. Through her good works and example her memory will live on. We will all miss this exceptional leader. We extend our condolences to her husband, Buddy and her daughters Laura, Barbara and Alice. A memorial will be held on January 22, 2004, at 4 pm in The Harold Lewis Auditorium at The Hunter School of Social Work. Jennifer J. Raab, President. Hunter College and the Hunter College Community
        BLANK--Blanche. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Blanche Blank, beloved friend and former Trustee. Eminent educator of national and international reputation, she gifted us for decades with wise counsel drawn from her boundless intellectual curiosity and passion for justice. She modeled for us our own signature, Wisdom for Life. We mourn her loss and celebrate her life. Stephen J. Sweeny, Ph.D. President Jean Baptiste Nicholson, OSU Chair, Board of Trustees
        BLANK--Blanche. She was my second mother, my role model, my inspiration, as well as my aunt. I am always so flattered when people notice the family resemblance. For as long as I can remember, Blanche has been the soul and spirit of our wonderful family and we will all miss her terribly. Rolf and I are grateful that we were able to share part of our new life together with this extraordinary woman. Suzanne Davis
        BLANK--Blanche Davis. The Hunter College Foundation notes with sorrow the passing of our devoted trustee and friend. We extend condolences to Buddy and her entire family. Klara Silverstein, Chair Hunter College Foundation Lucille D. Kaufman, Co-Chair
        BLANK--Blanche D. The Hunter College Department of Political Science mourns the passing of our colleague.
      