
        KLATELL--Jack, D.D.S. December 11, 2003. Beloved husband of Arla. Loving father of Robert and Penny, and David and Nancy. Proud grandfather of Christopher, James, Jenna, Jeremy and Devon. Devoted brother of Bea Fuchs. A renowned dentist and teacher. Memorial service Tuesday, December 16, 1:30 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Jack Klatell Fund at Columbia University School of Dentistry and Oral Surgery.
        KLATELL--Jack, DDS. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. A devoted teacher and supportive mentor, Dr. Klatell represented the best tradition of Mount Sinai, exemplified by his dedication to teaching and commitment to clinical excellence. A thoughtful and compassionate doctor - his wisdom, judgement, generous spirit and constant presence were an inspiration to all who knew him. In 1990, The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Klatell, in acknowledgement of his profound professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the medical center and the alumni. He will be missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. William G. Stein, M.D., President Barry D. Stimmel, M.D., Vice President Elliot J. Rayfield, M.D., Secretary Betty J. Mintz, M.D., Treasurer
        KLATELL--Jack, DDS. The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the passing of Jack Klatell, DDS, Chairman Emeritus for the Department of Dentistry. Dr. Klatell served Mount Sinai and his patients with dedication and distinction for 60 years. Under his leadership as the first Chairman in the Department of Dentistry in the Medical School, educational offerings were greatly expanded to include advanced degrees in combined DDS, MD programs, and other important innovations. Dr. Klatell will be missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Arla, his children, Robert and David, and the entire Klatell family. Peter W. May, Chairman The Mount Sinai Medical Center Kenneth L. Davis, MD, President and CEO The Mount Sinai Medical Center
        KLATELL--Jack. The faculty and staff of the Mt. Sinai Department of Dentistry are deeply saddened by the passing of Jack Klatell, D.D.S., Chairman Emeritus. His 60 years of dedication and leadership marked a significant expansion of the role of dentistry at Mt. Sinai and growth of its graduate training program. As a professor, Jack Klatell was a dedicated educator who served as mentor to every resident. As a practitioner, he brought skill and love to his work, and his demeanor and rapport with patients and colleagues will remain as a model for all who knew him. We extend our sincere condolences to Jack's wife Arla, his sons, Robert and David, and the entire Klatell family. Daniel Buchbinder, D.M.D., M.D. Chair, Dental and Maxillofacial Surgery
        KLATELL--Dr. Jack. Very few things will ever be the same again. Love, Gerry, Gene, John and Bob Friedman
        KLATELL--Jack, DDS. An era has passed. Thanks for your friendship and guidance. Jack and Doris Hirsch Kenneth and Sue Aschheim
      