
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a dear friend and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Richard; her children, Jill and Jeff Libshutz, and her brother and sister-in-law, Bruce and Randi Pergament. Linda was a beloved member of one of Einstein's outstanding philanthropic families. Her late parents, Irene and Murray Pergament, established the Sherri Pergament Koeppel Cancer Research Laboratory at our institution. Our hearts go out to the entire family. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        HOROWITZ--Linda. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board, League, Administration & staff of Parker Jewish Institute deeply mourn the passing of Linda Horowitz, beloved sister of our Associate Board members, Bruce and Randi Pergament and daughter of former Trustee, the late Murray Pergament and wife Irene. We extend our heartfelt condolences to husband Richard, children Jill and Jeff, the entire Horowitz and Pergament families. May your time of grief be eased by the warm love you shared and the fond memories you hold. Jerry Landsberg, Chairman, Board of Trustees Jonathan Freiberger and Steven Olken, Co-Chairs, Associate Board Michael N. Rosenblut, Acting CEO
        HOROWITZ--Linda. Your untimely death leaves a void in our family's lives forever. We shall truly miss you, along with our parents, the late Murray and Irene Pergament, who both died within the past year, and our late sister, Sherri Koeppel. We grieve together with Richard, Jill and Jeff, and Kyle, Max, and Sam Koeppel who will never again have the pleasure to enjoy your company. Linda, your courage and strength was truly unimaginable. Your positive focus towards life was at all times inspiring. May we be blessed by your spirited and cherished memories all the days of our lives and may you find rest and peace throughout eternity. Randi and Bruce Scott, Cole, and Wesley
        HOROWITZ--Linda. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Linda Horowitz, beloved wife of Richard Horowitz, and daughter of the late Irene and Murray Pergament. The Horowitz and Pergament families, cherished friends of UJAFederation, have been deeply devoted to Jewish and humanitarian causes. We extend our deepest sympathies to Richard; Jill and Jeff Libshutz; Randi and Bruce Pergament; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        HOROWITZ--Linda. They say that imitation is the greatest form of flattery. To imitate your strength, courage and grace through these worst of times would be, for our family, the greatest compliment we could give your memory. You would always be one of the first people we would notice upon entering a room as you always stood above the rest in more ways than one. Our deepest sympathy and continued friendship will remain with Richie, Jill, Jeff and their families. Lisa, Jeffrey, Alix & Brittany
        HOROWITZ--Linda. It's times like this that one always asks why do bad things happen to good people. To that there is little answer. Instead, look to her life and the beauty it gave her children Jill and Jeff, and her husband Richard and other family members. It's not necessary to dwell on why death was necessary, only the beauty that Linda's life gave us all. Lois Pergament Robert Pergament
        HOROWITZ--Linda. The Ovarian Cancer Research Fund mourns the passing of its dear friend, Linda Horowitz. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Richie, Jill, Jeff, and Randi and Bruce Pergament and their families. Faith Kates Kogan, President Jamie Boris, Exec Director The Ovarian Cancer Research Fund
        HOROWITZ--Linda. As an old friend of the Horowitz family John, Kenny and JoAnn express their deepest sorrow at the untimely passing of Linda. We are sure heaven has a place for her. Buddy and Denny
        HOROWITZ--Linda. Our condolences to Richard, Jill, Jeff, Randi, Bruce and the entire Pergament family on their sad loss. The Law Firm of Pryor Cashman Sherman & Flynn
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. The Tilles family wishes to express our sincere condolences to the Horowitz family on the passing of Linda Horowitz. We share the loss of a cherished friend.
      