
        McDERMOTT--Frank A. Jr., 85, of Bronxville, NY, Stuart, FL and Barrington, RI died on December 7, 2003 after a long illness. Mr. McDermott retired from New York Telephone in 1983, after serving 47 years beginning as a messenger and retiring as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. He was a trustee of New York Telephone, Orange and Rockland Utilities, The Dime Savings Bank, Tele Sciences Inc., Ayco, The Merger Fund, New York Medical College, Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, Fordham University, The College of New Rochelle, Frances Schervier Home and Hospital, Holy Family Church, President of the Telephone Pioneers of America and President of JFM Associates. Mr. McDermott was inducted into the Knights of Malta and remained an active participant. He was a decorated Military Officer in WW II receiving the Bronze Star, American M/E European, American Campaign, American Defense, World War II Victory, Good Conduct and two battle stars and other military honors. He served in North Africa and Europe and retired as a Lieutenant Colonel. In addition to his beloved wife Jeanne, he leaves four daughters and three sons. Jeanne Cohane of Nantucket, MA., Joan McDermott and Jane Bogue of Simsbury, CT and Sheila Sutton of Barrington, RI. His sons; Frank McDermott of New Rochelle, NY, Stephen McDermott of Irvington, NY, John McDermott of Chatham, NJ and 23 grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Viewing will be held at Fred H. McGrath Funeral Home, 20 Cedar Street, Bronxville, NY on Wednesday, December 10, 2003 from 2-4pm and 7-9pm. The Funeral mass will be held at St. Joseph's Catholic Church, 15 Cedar Street, Bronxville, NY at 10 am Thursday, December 11, 2003. The family would prefer donations to a non-profit charity in lieu of flowers. Details to follow.
        McDERMOTT--Frank A. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Frank A. McDermott, devoted friend of long standing and past Trustee. A Christian gentleman passionate about the College, he generously shared himself with us and we are stronger for it. We mourn his loss and celebrate his life. Stephen J. Sweeny, Ph.D. President Jean Baptiste Nicholson, OSU Chair, Board of Trustees
      