
        HOROWITZ--Linda. Truly beloved wife of Richard. Devoted and caring mother of Jill and Jeff Libshutz. Loving sister of Bruce and Randi Pergament, and the late Sherri Pergament Koeppel. Devoted daughter of the late Murray and Irene Pergament. Loving daughter-in-law of Grace and Sidney Horowitz, and sister-in-law of Joanne Horowitz. Your beauty, elegance, kind heart and wisdom touched the lives of your adoring family and every one else who knew you. Your courage and devotion has been an inspiration to your family and so many others. You will be in our hearts forever and always. Services will be held Monday, December 8, at 11 am, at Temple Beth El of Great Neck. Richard Horowitz, Jill and Jeff Libshutz
        HOROWITZ--Linda. Friendship can only be measured in memories, laughter, peace, and love. Linda, you brought all of these things to our entire family for so many years. You were beautiful, dignified, courageous, and brave, an inspiration to all of us. Our hearts are broken. Our love goes out to you and our dear friends Richie, Jill and Jeff, and your entire family. We will keep your memory alive for generations to come. You were a once in a lifetime jewel in our lives. Rest in peace, dear friend. We will never forget you. Lissy and Allen Lauren and Phil Meryl and B.J.
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. We shared so much of life together for decades. We shall sorely miss your great sense of style, sweet, kind and gentle manner. Your battle was too difficult and we have always admired your strength, courage, dignity, grace and class. You have left us too soon, but the wonderful memories and teachings will remain forever in our thoughts. We will love you and think of you every day. Our heartfelt condolences to our friends Richie, Jill, Jeff and the entire Horowitz and Pergament families. Marilyn and Steve
        HOROWITZ--Linda. Our sadness at the loss of our dear friend Linda is immeasurable. Our heartfelt condolences to Richie, Jill and Jeff, Joan and Alan, Randy and Bruce. Linda, we love you and we'll miss your sweetness, style, humor, inspiration and, most of all, your friendship. We treasure all the times we shared and you will hold that special place in our hearts forever. Fern, Lowell, Greg, Russell and Cory Kwiat
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. We mourn the loss of our dearest friend, Linda. Her strength, style and beauty will always be with us. We will cherish the memories of our family trips from Florida to Puerto Rico and Colorado. February 21st will not be the same without you. Our hearts and prayers go out to Richie, Jill, Jeff, Bruce and their families. Old friends are the best friends. All our love, Betsy, Bob, Ned, Nancy and Stephen
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. With deepest sorrow, we mourn the loss of our beloved Linda, whose passing has left a tremendous void in our family. We will never forget her beauty, kindness, intel ligence, sense of humor, impeccable taste and devotion to her family. Our lives are changed forever. Love, Joan, Alan, Allison, Jeff, Natalie, and Kate
        HOROWITZ--Linda. We are heartbroken by the devastating loss of our beautiful Linda, our friend for over 30 years. Her dignity, class and bravery throughout her unspeakable ordeal was unparalleled. To Richie, Jill, Jeffrey and Bruce, please know we love you. We will never forget her. Rest in peace cherished friend. Love, Barbara and David Emmer
        HOROWITZ--Linda P. We have lost our best friend. She fought to stay with her loving Jill and Richie to the very end. Our hearts are filled with sorrow, but she will always be with us. Our condolences to Richard, Jill and Jeff, Bruce and Randi Pergament, and her in-laws Sidney and Grace Horowitz, and sister-in-law Joanne. Jane and Marc Schorr
        HOROWITZ--Linda. To know Linda was to love Linda. We will never forget all the wonderful times we spent together. There wasn't a classier woman or a better wife, mother, daughter, or sister. Richie, Jill, Jeff, Randi and Bruce--please know we will always be there for you. Love, Meryl, Michael, Betsy, Danny and Adam
        HOROWITZ--Linda. Linda, 30 years ago next month we met and formed an extraordinary friendship. Your strength and dignity during your illness amazed me. You left this world far too soon but I will always remember your smile, your warmth, your positive attitude and your innate elegance. Love, Meryl
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. The Board of Governors and the members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of Linda, wife of our esteemed member, and past President, Richard, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to Richard, Jill, Jeff, Bruce and Randi. Board of Governors Alan Goldberg, President
        HOROWITZ--Linda. Your unparalleled grace, wisdom, elegance and strength that you possessed will forever remain in our minds and in our hearts. Our deepest condolences to our dear and close friends Jill and Jeff, Richie and the entire Horowitz and Pergament family. Love, Lauren and Josh
        HOROWITZ--Linda. Our family has lost a special friend. Linda, you captivated us with your beauty, style, wit and charm, and you will always be in our hearts. Our deepest sympathies to Richie, Jill and Jeff, Bruce and Randi. Janis, Alan, Stacey and Michael Goldberg
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. We share the loss of a cherished friend whose life touched us all. Surrounded by devoted family and friends, she fought with dignity and courage that inspired all who knew her. Our heartfelt sympathy to Richie, Jill and Jeff. Lynda and Joseph Jurist
        HOROWITZ--Linda. Temple Beth El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the untimely passing of its longtime, dear member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. We mourn the loss of Linda Horowitz, mother of our dear friends Jill and Jeffrey Libshutz. Please know our thoughts and love are with you. Stephanie Emmer Julie and Jeffrey Gittlin
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. Cher ished friend. Your life affirms beauty and wisdom forever. You will always be in our hearts. Our deepest sypmathy to Richie, Jill and Jeff, Bruce and the entire families. Dina, Richard, Alison and Marc Schechter
        HOROWITZ--Linda. We will miss your friendship, strength and wisdom. You have been an inspiration to all of us. Our prayers are with Richie, Jill, Jeff, Bruce and Randi. Nanci, Stuart Gelb and family Gail, Barry Group and family
        HOROWITZ -- Linda Per gament. You blessed our lives for over 30 years. You were the epitomy of a woman of valor and beauty. We loved you dearly. Rest in peace, sweet, dear Linda. Mom and Dad
        HOROWITZ -- Linda Per gament. Goodbye, my beautiful sister. You filled a great void in my life that will last forever. You will always be in my heart. I love you. Joanne
        HOROWITZ -- Linda. Our beautiful, elegant friend. We'll miss you and you will be in our hearts forever. Love, Laurie and Stuart
      