
        SMERLING--Sylvia. July 15, 1917, to December 27, 2003. Beloved mother, grandmother, great-grandmother. Loving and beloved sister, aunt and cousin. Passed at 1 am, on Saturday, December 27, 2003, in Berkeley, CA. Sylvia is survived by her sisters Pearl Goldsmith and Anita Eshay, her daughters Doree Friedman and Karen Friedman, and daughter-in-law Nancy Johnson, her grandchildren Paolo Friedman, Joanne Vanvick Friedman, Nina Friedman, Alexandria Friedman, her two great-grandchildren Kyra and Kadin Friedman, nephews and nieces Arthur and Linda Goldsmith, Harvey and Leni Goldsmith and Howard Eshay, her lifelong friend and cousin Rosalyn Cohen who was truly another sister to her, and many, many loving and well loved cousins. Sylvia exuded caring, humor and wit. She was a brilliant mind, a feminist in the true sense of the word. Her visions were ahead of her time. She imparted to her daughters the notion that they could do anything that they set their sights on. As a result they became good mothers themselves and the most caring children they could be. Sylvia grew up in the Bronx and lived all her life in New York City, a place she cherished. Throughout her upbringing and education she developed a strong sense of justice and compassion, which she practiced with all those in her sphere. Her actions were always peppered with humor. Later in life she married her lifelong cherished friend, William Smerling, who preceeded her in death. Although her two sisters remained her best friends throughout her life, she touched everyone she met, and her circle of friends grew, spanning the generations. She will be forever missed as a spirit of light, integrity, and humor. Sylvia, you leave a hole in the hearts of all who knew you, but we are all bigger and stronger for making this journey with you, and once again, we thank you for the amazing opportunity, the blessing of being part of your life. Services will be held on Wednesday, December 31, 2003, at 11:15 am, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th and Amsterdam Ave, NYC.
        SMERLING--Sylvia. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her loved ones. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Rabbi Scott Corngold Cantor Bruce L. Ruben Michael H. Laufer, President
      