
        YAHR--Dr. Melvin David. Age 86, died January 1, 2004. World renowned and revered neurologist, researcher and mentor to generations of physicians. Predeceased by his adored wife, Felice. Beloved brother of Minna. Loving father of Carol, Nina, Laura and Barbara. Father-in-law of Eric, Tony and Alex. Beloved grandfather of Sarah, Charles, Joseph, Marguerite and Benjamin. Step-grandfather of Abe and Dania. Treasured brother-in-law of Arnold and Dossie. Loving companion of Nancy. Services Monday, January 5, at 9:30 AM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76 St. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to International Federation of Parkinson's Disease Societies, 1200 Fifth Ave, Apt. 12D, NY, NY 10029. Burial service private.
        YAHR--Dr. Melvin D. Dr. C. Warren Olanow and the Department of Neurology of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourn the passing of our distinguished friend and colleague, Dr. Melvin D. Yahr. Dr. Yahr graduated from the NYU College of Medicine in 1943. After completing a residency in Neurology at Montefiore, he joined The Neurologic Institute at Presbyterian Hospital and Columbia University's College of Physicians & Surgeons. Dr. Yahr became the Chairman of Neurology at Mount Sinai in 1974, a position he held until 1991. Thereafter Dr. Yahr held the title of Chairman Emeritus and was the Aidekman Family Professor of Neurologic Research, remaining active in the Department until the time of his death. Dr. Yahr's major research contributions have been in the area of Parkinson's disease, where he was internationally renowned. He played a pioneering role in the development of L-dopa which still remains the major treatment for Parkinson's disease. Over his career he has received many honors including the Jacobi Medallion presented by the Mount Sinai alumni in 1987. He served as President of the American Neurological Association and the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology and was Chairman of World Federation of Neurology Research Committee on Extrapyramidal Disorders. In 1995, an annual Melvin D. Yahr Symposium was established as an enduring symbol of appreciation for his many contributions. He was a colleague, teacher and friend, and he will be deeply missed. We extend deepest condolences to his family.
        YAHR--Melvin D., M.D. Dearest friend, you were a Giant among giants in the world of Neurological Medicine, and as a magnificent human being. You leave us with an unfillable void. Rhoda, Mark and Herbert G. Cohen, M.D.
        YAHR--Dr. Melvin. I deeply mourn the passing of Dr. Melvin Yahr, mentor to myself and many other neurologists. My sincerest condolences to the family. Mitchell S. Raps, M.D.
      