
        MURRAY--A. Brean, 66, of heart failure on December 25, 2003. Resident of New York City, Cornwall-on-Hudson, NY and Sun Valley, ID. He is survived by his wife of 23 years, Bettina Patterson Murray, sons Christopher and Stephen Murray of Portland, OR, stepdaughter Renee Sands Tobin of New York City and stepgranddaughter Rory Patterson Tobin. Brother of Sean, Noel, Kevin and Grant Cunningham and Lee Cunningham Lisman (who predeceased him). Born in Dublin, Ireland, he emigrated to the United States in 1950 and became a citizen in 1952. He served in the US Army from 1954-1957 as a member of the 82nd Airborne Division and was also assigned to the US Military Academy at West Point. In 1961, he received his BS in Economics from Villanova University, PA. His business career started at IBM and continued with Cogan, Berlind, Weill & Levitt, where he became a partner in 1965. In 1973, he founded Brean Murray & Co., a privately held investment firm. His association with other companies included founding and serving on the board of Shared Medical Systems and as a director of Concept, Inc. At the time of his death he was serving as a director of both Specialty Toner Corp. and Somanetics Corp. He served as an Official of the American Stock Exchange, and in 1985 was elected to the Board of the Tax Council. He was a director of Doral Financial Corp., a firm based in Puerto Rico, for approximately nine years. For the past two years, Brean Murrany & Co. has sponsored the Investment Opportunities in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico conferences. On October 30, 2003, the conference was held at the New York Stock Exchange and Brean rang the closing bell that day to celebrate the conclusion of the conference. He was a member of the Board of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice Foundation, CUNY. He was instrumental in the establishment of the McCabe Fellowship, a scholarship exchange program between police professionals from John Jay College and the An Garda Siochana, the national police force in Ireland. In 1988, Brean and his wife, Bettina, created a scholarship fund to enable financially underprivileged students to attend Columbia University's Summer Program for High School Students. This program is designed for highly motivated students to experience college-level study, and over the past sixteen years the scholarship fund has supported over 400 students. A private funeral service and burial will be held in Cornwall-on-Hudson. A memorial service will be held in New York on January 12th at 4:30PM at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, 90th St. and 5th Ave, followed by a reception at The Union Club, 109 East 69 St. In lieu of flowers memorial donations may be made to The John Jay College Foundation, for the Brean Murray Scholarship Fund, President's Office/ P. Maull, 899 10th Ave, New York, NY 10019 or to The Scholarship Fund, Columbia University's Summer Program for High School Students, Attn: Paul McNeil, 303 Lewisohn Hall, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027.
      