
        VERRILL--Jean, 80, of Atlanta. Educator, student and mother, passed away peacefully on Jan. 14, 2004 at Hospice Atlanta after a long illness. She was born in New York City on January 27, 1923, but called Atlanta her home, and hometown, since 1965. She was the wife of F. Glenn Verrill. They were married in NYC 57 years ago. Her degrees included a Bachelor of Arts from Hunter College, NY, as well as her J.D. from John Marshall Law School and Master of Law from the Georgia State University School of Law. A lifelong educator and student, Jean was constantly seeking new knowledge & was very active in the arts throughout her life. She started her career in education at New York University, serving as Assistant to the Dean of the NYU School of Dentistry, and went on to serve as Assistant to the Bursar at Columbia University, and as Associate Director of Veterans Affairs at The Juilliard School. Jean was also a professionally trained singer and was a member of The Collegiate Chorale, the first ensemble formed by Robert Shaw when he was Director of the Fred Waring Glee Club of New York City. Upon her arrival in Atlanta, her love for the arts led her to join The High Museum's Docent Guild in 1965, where she was an active and inspiring teacher and contributor for the last 38 years. She was also a member of the Michael C. Carlos Museum's Weekend Committee and Docent Guild, and the American Art Committee of The High Museum of Art. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, and sister, Jean is survived by her husband Glenn; her daughter Joan; her son Gary; her two grandchildren, Kristofer and Sergei and her brothers, Ralph and Tony. Funeral service and interment will be private. Visiting hours will be Friday, January 16 from 5-7pm at H.M. Patterson & Son Funeral Directors at Spring Hill, 1020 Spring Street N.W., Atlanta, GA. Family and friends are invited to attend the Memorial Service to be held on Saturday, January 17, 2004 at 2pm at St. Anne's Episcopal Church, at the intersection of Northside Parkway and Moores Mill Rd, with reception to immediately follow. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to St. Anne's Episcopal Church, The High Museum of Art, and The Michael C. Carlos Museum, all of Atlanta, GA. For information, call H.M. Patterson & Son 404-876-1022.
      