
        TISHMAN--Alan Valentine, 86, passed away Tuesday evening, January 13, 2004. Beloved husband of 62 years of Peggy (nee Margaret Westheimer). Loving brother of Robert V. Tishman and Virginia T. Meyerson. Darling father of Pat T. and James Q. Hall, the late David Henry Tishman and the late Virginia (Nina) Alexander. Adored grandfather of Adam and Laurie Bramwell, Margaret and David Doyle and David Alexander and Lauren Alexander and father-in-law of Richard Alexander. Beloved great grandfather of Patrick, Christopher and Katharine Doyle. Also survived by many loving nieces, nephews and cousins. Mr. Tishman was the former Chairman of the Dartmouth College Real Estate Committee, VicePresident of the Jewish Child Care Association and one of the original developers of the Association for a Better New York. Family and friends are invited to the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home at 1076 Madison Avenue on Thursday, January 15, 2004, between 4:00 and 7:00. Services will be Friday, January 16, 2004, at noon at Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 East 79th Street. Gifts to Mt. Sinai Hospital, the Jewish Child Care Association, Dartmouth College and the charity of your choice woule be greatly appreciated.
        TISHMAN--Alan. The Board, Faculty and Staff of CLALThe National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership extend deepest condolences to Peggy Tishman, our esteemed and beloved Board member, and all the family on the loss of Alan Tishman. A pillar of the community, he was dedicated to the care and concern of humanity and Jews everywhere. Together, he and his wife have helped to make a remarkable difference at CLAL and throughout Jewish life. May his memory be a blessing and may his wife and family find a place of comfort in his great legacy which will continue to live on. Thomas O. Katz, Chairman Rabbi Irwin Kula, President Donna M. Rosenthal, Executive Vice Chairman Rabbi Brad Hirschfield, Vice President
        TISHMAN--Alan. The Board of Trustees of The Jewish Home & Hospital mourns the passing of Alan Tishman, beloved husband of Peggy Tishman, our past Trustee, dear friend and longtime supporter of the Home. Together, Peggy and Alan devoted themselves to our community and for that we and generations to come will be grateful. Mr. Tishman was a renowned businessman and philanthropist whose vision and leadership will be missed greatly. We extend our deepest sympathy to Peggy and her entire family. Fred M. Lowenfels Chairman of the Board Audrey S. Weiner President and CEO
        TISHMAN--Alan V. Friend, mentor, partner, visionary. You were the truest of leaders. Your word was your bond, your handshake your seal. You set an ethical standard in both business and life that was unparalleled. Your passing has created a permanent void in all of our lives. To Peggy, Pat and the entire family we extend our sincerest heartfelt condolences. We were all blessed for having known Alan. Tishman Heskin Partners James. M. O'Hern, Gary Fuchs, Ellen Higgins, Ray Cunningham, Steven Cox, Judy Wurdock, Charles C. Quinn
        TISHMAN--Alan. It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of Alan. Our deepest sympathy to his cherished wife Peggy, and caring daughter Pat. Our sincerest condolences to his beloved grandchildren, Lauren, David, and son-in-law Richard Alexander and the entire Tishman family. We hope that they will be comforted by his eternal fond memories. Abby, Alex, Andrew, Ashley and the Modell Family
        TISHMAN--Alan V. Our dear former colleague, Alan Tishman, was a wonderful friend to all of us and we will miss him. The partners, associates and staff of Tishman Speyer Properties wish to express our sincere condolences to our chairman, Robert Tishman, to Peggy and Pat, and to Alan's entire family. We hope the family will be comforted by wonderful memories of a life well lived. Tishman Speyer Properties
        TISHMAN -- Alan V. The governors, members and staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Alan Tishman. Alan served as a governor of REBNY from 1961 to 1963. We express our sincere condolences to his wife Peggy and the entire Tishman family. John E. Zuccotti, Chairperson Steven Spinola, President
        TISHMAN--Alan V. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Alan Tishman, a longtime supporter of the League. With his wife Peggy, Alan was a stalwart of the Jewish community. We extend our condolences to Peggy and to the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        TISHMAN--Alan. The Board of Directors, President Dr. Robert N. Butler, M.D., and the staff of the International Longevity Center, U.S.A., mourn the loss of Alan Tishman, lovingly remembered and admired. We extend our condolences and sympathy to Peggy and the entire Tishman family upon its loss.
        TISHMAN -- Alan V. The membership of the Association for a Better New York mourns the death of Alan Tishman. A founding father of ABNY, Alan's leadership and civic pride was unparalleled. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family. William C. Rudin, Chairman
        TISHMAN--Alan V. It was a privilege to have known Alan Tishman for 47 years. He was a man of substance, great presence and extraordinary character. The loss to his friends and family is profound. This wonderful man is irreplaceable. Fran Baron
        TISHMAN--Alan V. Alan, a friend of over 30 years, was a man of great wisdom, integrity, warmth and kindness. He had a wonderful spirit and was a marvelous partner. My deepest sympathy and love to Peggy and the entire family. Charles R. Borrok
      