
        YAHR--Melvin D. We mourn the passing of Dr. Melvin D. Yahr, personal friend and devoted leader of research and patient care for people affected by Parkinson's disease. Among his numerous contributions, Dr. Yahr was the first Scientific Director of the Parkinson's Disease Foundation. He led the first double blind clinical trial of levodopa, the standard treatment for the disease. With Dr. Margaret Hoehn, he developed clinical criteria that are still used for evaluating the severity of the disease. In the William Black Building at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center he developed laboratories for a vigorous basic science approach to understanding how the disease arises. He established the first NIH-supported Parkinson's Disease Research and Education Center, and a research group for the World Federation of Neurology. He was awarded the coveted James Parkinson Medal by the Foundation on the occasion of its 30th anniversary in 1987. Since 1974, he has had an illustrious career at the Mount Sinai Medical Center and has continued to be an international leader of research related to the disease. We join his numerous admirers in mourning his passing and we extend sincere condolences to Nancy, his children, grandchildren, students, and colleagues everywhere. Page M. Black, Chairman L.P. Rowland, M.D., Pres. Stanley Fahn, M.D., Sci. Dir. Robin Elliott, Exec. Dir. Parkinson's Disease Foundation
        YAHR--Melvin D., M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. Dr. Yahr joined the staff in 1974 and for over 30 years distinguished himself as teacher and clinician. He provided superb care to his patients, wise counsel to his students and colleagues and was an inspiration to all who knew him. In 1987, The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Yahr in acknowledgment of his many contributions as a physician, researcher and teacher and the great distinction he brought to Mount Sinai. He will be missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. William G. Stein, M.D.--Pres. Barry D. Stimmel, M.D.--V.P. Elliot J. Rayfield, M.D.--Sec'y Betty J. Mintz, M.D.--Treas.
        YAHR--Melvin D. The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the passing of Melvin D. Yahr, M.D. Chairman Emeritus of the Estelle and Daniel Maggin Department of Neurology and Alex and Shirley Aidekman Family Neurological Research Professor. A renowned expert on Parkinson's disease, Dr. Yahr was among the pioneers in the use of L-dopa therapy. He was an outstanding researcher, clinician and teacher and he helped build Mount Sinai's neurology training program into one of the largest in the nation. We are grateful to Dr. Yahr for his many years of dedicated service. We extend our sincerest sympathy to his family and friends. Peter W. May Chairman of the Boards of Trustees Kenneth L. Davis, MD CEO, President and Dean
      