
        FISHER -- Elizabeth. With great sadness we acknowledge the passing of our dear aunt Elizabeth. Together with our uncle Zachary, she inspired not only us but thousands of people with their philanthropic efforts and patriotic hearts. We will carry on your good works and we will miss you dearly. Ken, Tammy, Crystal, Brittany & Josh
        FISHER--Elizabeth. It is with deep regret that we announce the passing of Elizabeth Fisher, widow of Zachary Fisher and co-founder of the Intrepid Museum Foundation, the Fisher House Foundation and the Fisher Armed Services Foundation. Elizabeth passed away peacefully at home last evening after a long illness. Elizabeth lived a good and charitable life and was a tireless friend and supporter of the men and women of the armed forces and their families. She served as a U.S.O. showgirl in 1943 in Sicily with Bob Hope and performed for over 150,000 troops. She and Zachary were devotedly married for 54 years until Zachary's passing in 1999. The family has asked that, in lieu of flowers, contributions be sent to the Intrepid Museum Foundation, the Fisher House Foundation, or the Fisher Center for Alzheimers Research Foundation. All three organizations can be reached at 1 Intrepid Square, NY, NY 10036, Attn: Dave Winters. Funeral services will be private.
        FISHER--Elizabeth M. The Board of Trustees of the Intrepid Museum mourns the passing of Elizabeth M. Fisher, Co-Founder of the Intrepid Museum Foundation with her husband, the late Zachary Fisher. She was an outstanding American and a peerless supporter of those who serve in uniform. Our nation has suffered a great loss. Our condolences to her son, William Crovello and the Fisher family. Arnold Fisher, Bill White, Tom Tyrrell and all at Intrepid
        FISHER--Elizabeth M. With great sorrow, we acknowledge the loss of Elizabeth Fisher, Founder of the Fisher Houses, with her husband Zachary. Her efforts touched thousands in the military community and her loss is deeply felt. Our condolences to her son, William Crovello, and to the Fisher family. Ken Fisher and the Fisher House Foundation
        FISHER -- Elizabeth. Fisher Brothers mourns the passing of Elizabeth Fisher, widow of our dear uncle, Zachary Fisher, a senior partner of Fisher Brothers. Elizabeth dedicated her life, with Zachary, to supporting the men and women in uniform, and brought them great warmth and appreciation. She was a wonderful American and will be greatly missed.
        FISHER--Elizabeth M. We are saddened today for Bill and Brigitte, and the entire Fisher and Kenowsky families. I know that the man who was truly in love with you and devotedly married to you for 54 years is so very glad to see you today. He has missed you and we will too. Love, Billy White
        FISHER--Elizabeth. It is with great regret that we learned of the passing of Elizabeth Fisher, co-founder, with her husband, the late Zachary Fisher, of the Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research Foundation. The entire Board joins me in sending condolences to her son William Crovello, and his wife Brigitte. Michael Stern, President
        FISHER--Elizabeth Margaret. Beloved aunt and mentor. Thank you for always being there for me. Though I must say goodbye you will live in my heart forever. A great lady of tremendous courage, wisdom and compassion I will miss you deeply. Sunnie
      