
        EDER--Dr. Howard A. Of Woods Hole, MA, and NYC. He was born on September 23, 1917, in Milwaukee, WI, and graduated from University of Wisconsin in 1938. He received his M.D. from Harvard Medical School in 1942, and his M.P.H. from Harvard School of Public Health in 1945. He was currently Professor of Medicine Emeritus at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York. Dr. Eder dedicated his life to the study of arteriosclerosis and was one of the first investigators to discover the role of high density lipoproteins (HDL) in coronary heart disease. He was elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Science, and awarded a Distinguished Achievement Award from American Heart Association. He had a lifelong fascination with history and current events, and was an avid reader of nonfiction, the New York Times, and the Nation. He cared deeply for the welfare of people and firmly believed in liberal democratic principles. He was a loving husband to his wife, Barbara Straus Eder, who preceded him in death, and a devoted father to his children, Rebecca Eder, Ph.D. (Peter Shile, M.D.), Susan Eder, M.D. (Jonathan Flescher, M.D.), and Michael Eder (Gundhild Eder). He was a wonderful grandfather and source of great amusement for his five grandchildren, Elizabeth Edershile, Sam and Max Flescher, and Daniel and Robert Eder. He will be missed greatly by his family and friends for his brilliant intellect, his incisive wit, his moral steadfastness, and the great pleasure he took in the life of the mind. Donations may be made to the Nation Institute, 33 Irving Pl., NYC 10003; or to American Heart Association, PO Box 5216, Glen Allen, VA 23058. A memorial service is being planned to be held in Woods Hole, MA.
        EDER--Howard A., MD. The Department of Medicine of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourns the death on January 15, 2004 of its longtime Professor Emeritus since 1988 but still active here, who was an internationally renowned investigator of lipid metabolism and disorders and member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences. He was a 1942 graduate of Harvard Medical School who took Internal Medicine training at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, and subsequently worked at Rockefeller University for several years. He was one of the early investigators to use modern biochemical analyses to study lipid metabolism and protein-lipid interactions in humans, and their relation to the development of atherosclerosis. In recognition of his seminal studies he received the Distinguished Achievement Award from the American Heart Association in 1985 and was a member of many major medical scientific societies, including the American Society for Clinical Investigation, the Royal Society of Medicine, and the Association of American Physicians. He was a wonderful man who will be missed by his friends and associates. We offer our condolences to his daughters Susan and Rebecca, his son Michael, and their spouses and children. Victor L. Schuster, MD Baumritter Professor and Chairman, Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine
        EDER--Howard A., M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the death of its distinguished professor emeritus of medicine. A member of Einstein's faculty since 1957, Dr. Eder was an internationally known authority on the metabolism of plasma lipids and lipoproteins. He was the first scientist to demonstrate an association between reduced levels of high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and the presence of heart disease. His scientific contributions earned him election to the prestigious Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Heart Association's Distinguished Achievement Award. As important as Dr. Eder's scientific contributions was his role over many decades as caring physician. The entire Einstein community is poorer for the loss of this outstanding scientist, compassionate doctor and gentle man. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his daughter Dr. Susan Eder and her husband Dr. Jonathan Flescher, both Einstein Class of '83, his daughter Dr. Rebecca Eder and her husband Dr. Peter Shile, his son Michael Eder and his wife Gundhild, five grandchildren and the entire Eder family. Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Albert Einstein College of Medicine
      