
        SHEIN--Ethel Pauline. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the immeasurable and untimely loss of Ethel Shein, a beloved member of the Museum's staff for 38 years. Ethel began her career at the Museum in 1965 as Promotions Manager in its Department of Publications. Between 1972 and 1995, she served superbly as Executive Assistant to the Museum's Director, Richard E. Oldenburg. In 1996, Ethel was named Director of Special Programming and Events. She is fondly remembered for her great loyalty and dedication to the Museum; her expertise in matters of diplomacy and protocol; her sincere solicitude for friends, colleagues and Trustees; and her love for art. Her life was enlivened by an insatiable appetite for Bakelite jewelry; a passion for Vienna, Tuscany, and St. Petersburg; and a deep love for music, which was reflected in her close involvement in the planning of the Museum's Annual SummerGarden concerts. Somehow in the midst of all she did, Ethel found time to edit a rare gem of a book, ''The American Sunrise.'' She will be deeply missed when we open our new building, but there are countless ways she will live on in it. We extend our profound sympathies to her brother, Paul Shein; to her nieces, Mary Santamarina, Abby Alford, Jennifer Anapolski, Alison Quill, and Katie Behr; and to her nephew, David Shein. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        SHEIN--Ethel Pauline. It is with boundless sorrow that the Members and Staff of The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art learned of the passing of Ethel Shein. Her devotion to MoMA in countless ways over 38 years gave her an enormous knowledge of the Museum's history, which she shared generously. She was very much its institutional memory, and touched our lives in innumerable ways. She gave guidance and joy to our Members all over the world, and had the matchless ability to make us all feel a close part of the Museum family. We send our deepest sympathy to her brother, Paul Shein, and to her nieces, Mary Santamarina, Abby Alford, Jennifer Anapolski, Alison Quill, Katie Behr, and her nephew, David Shein. Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        SHEIN--Ethel Pauline. The members and staff of The Contemporary Arts Council of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Ethel Shein. It is hard to imagine the Museum without Ethel and her innate sense of what was best for the institution. Her kindness, intelligence, generosity and, above all, her presence, will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to her brother, Paul Schein; to her nieces, Mary Santamarina, Abby Alford, Jennifer Anapolski, Alison Quill, Katie Behr; and to her nephew, David Shein. Richard Anderman, Co-Chairman Anne Coffin, Co-Chairman Melville Straus, Honorary Chairman
      