
        ROSENTHAL--George, 85, on January 8, 2004. Beloved and adoring husband of the late Udith Rosenthal. Devoted and loving father of Nina, Robert, and Peter, and cherished father-in-law of Jed, Jodi, and Lori. Proud grandfather of Julie, Jennifer, Lindsay, Gregory, Kara and Jamie. Dearest brother of Dave, Lou and Paul and brother-in-law of Eva, Sue, Bea and Mimi. Wonderful friend to so many. A man of great character, wit, and inner strength, who will be sorely missed by his family and all who knew him. Contributions to the North Shore-L.I.J. Health System would be greatly appreciated. Services Sunday 10 AM at Gutterman's, 8000 Jericho Tpk, Woodbury, LI.
        ROSENTHAL--George. We deeply mourn the passing of our very dear friend, George Rosenthal. You were a second father to us and we loved you very much. Your sage advice, business knowledge, worldly views and your many stories will be greatly missed. Your undying support, when it was most needed, will never be forgotten. It is a sad day to think about sitting across from your seat at the conference table and not seeing you there. You will always be in our hearts and minds. May you rest in peace with your dear Udith, but we know you will never be far away. Lucy and Ralph Palleschi and family
        ROSENTHAL--George. The officers and employees of First Long Island Investors, LLC note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, dear friend and one of our original founders George Rosenthal. He will be deeply missed. Your guidance in our early days was extremely valuable and helped lay the foundation on which the business was built. Our heartfelt sympathy to Nina and Jed, Bob and Jodi, Peter and Lori, his grandchildren, and to the rest of the Rosenthal family.
        ROSENTHAL--George. With deep regret we mourn the passing of George Rosenthal, beloved father of Peter and Lori, Robert and Jodi, Nina and Jed and treasured grandfather. We extend to George's cherished family our heartfelt sympathies. In this sad time of mourning, please accept our friendship and sincere condolences. The Waldbaum and Malinsky families
        ROSENTHAL -- George. To our dear friends, Robert and Jodi, we mourn the passing of your father George. The Greene Family Tina, James, David & Jonathan
        ROSENTHAL--George. We mourn the loss of a dear, kind and special friend. Our deepest condolences to the Rosenthal family. George will be forever in our hearts. Fran and Herb Wilson
      