
        RICE--Jacqueline Miller. Reluctantly passed away on January 13th after a short confrontation with cancer. She was born on April 14, 1931, in Portland, Oregon, the only daughter to James F. and Marion L. Miller. Graduating from Stanford University in '53 with a B.A. in English, she went to live on Telegraph Hill in San Francisco where she was active in the literary scene around the famous avant-garde City Lights Bookshop founded by Pete Martin and later run by Lawrence Ferlinghetti. In '55 she moved to New York City to work in publishing. She made an impression in the literary and artistic circles of Greenwich Village, and became a close friend of novelist Dawn Powell, and later her Executor. She also spent free time with a group of artists known as the Abstract-Expressionists, or the ''New York School,'' which included such well known painters as Kline, De Kooning, Pollock, Rothko, Guston, Frank O'Hara, etc. She was known to say she ''did her graduate work at the Cedar Bar.'' She eloped in '62 during Cuban Missile Week with the distinguished artist, Dan Rice, a junior member of the Cedar crowd. Their first daughter, Hilary Dawn, was born in '65 and they moved to Haddam Neck in the Connecticut River Valley. There, among many other endeavors, she pursued her avid interest in photography. She was an ardent protester of the Vietnam War. O'Shaughnessy (Shauna) was born in '69, and will be giving birth to Jackie's first grandchild in the spring. The family moved to Guilford, CT, in '76. She and Dan divorced in '82, but remained close until his death in January '03. In Guilford, she worked in real estate for several years and found a true calling in the restoration of historic Guilford homes. Most recently she returned to publishing and produced two books of work by the American artist, Al Hirschfeld, with Glenn Young at Applause Books. She pursued with her typical passion her interests in the environment, gardening, activism, cooking, art, literature, antiques, preservation, and conservation. She had magnificent gardens and enjoyed viewing, with her cats, all the wildlife that would come to visit at her Clapboard Hill home. Jackie's philanthropy was drawn out by such causes as The Library of America, Friends of the Columbia River Gorge, NPR and PBS. The world has lost a great part of its precious luster and excitement. Please make any contributions to the NPR station WSHU Public Radio, 5151 Park Ave., Fairfield, CT 06825; or Public Broadcasting, Inc (CPTV), 240 New Britain Ave., Hartford, CT 06106. For information, Guilford Funeral Home, 115 Church St, Guilford, CT.
      