
        JENKS--Richard Dimick. 66, died on December 30, 2003 at a nursing home in Rye Brook of complications from multiple system atrophy. He is survived by a son, Douglas, and his wife, Patricia, of Hopewell Junction; a son, Daniel, and his wife, Mercedes, of Anaheim, CA; and a daughter, Susan, of Millwood; longtime companion, Barbara Gatje, of Manhattan and Point O'Woods; a brother, Captain Albert Jenks United States Navy, retired, and his wife Barbara of San Diego, CA; and a sister Diane and her husband Lt. Col. Harold Alabaster, United States Army, retired, of Bellevue, WA; and grandchildren Douglas, Valerie, Ryan and Daniel Richard, and a step-granddaughter, Danielle. He received his Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign. His first employment after graduation was with the Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton. From 1968 to 2002, he worked in the Mathematical Sciences Department of the Thomas J. Watson Research Laboratory of I.B.M. in Yorktown Heights, where he designed computer algebra software. He published numerous articles in his field, was responsible for several patents, and co-authored the book, ''Axiom,'' with mathematician Dr. Robert Sutor, also of I.B.M. With Dr. David V. Chudnovsky, he co-chaired international conferences on Computers & Mathematics, among them, one in 1986 at Stanford University and another in 1989 at M.I.T. He was a voracious reader, especially of history, biography and politics. He traveled widely throughout Europe and North America, as well as to places like Lake Baikal in Siberia; Torajaland in Sulawesi, Indonesia; the Rio Negro in Brazil and the Galapagos in Ecuador. His passion for music was first developed when he was a child in Dixon, IL, where he learned to play the organ and sang in the church choir. Later in life, he became organist and choirmaster of the Church of the Holy Communion in Mahopac. During the 1980's and '90's, he sang in choirs under the direction of Dr. Dennis Keene, conductor, performing at Lincoln Center in Alice Tully Hall. He also sang in the Point O'Woods Church Choir on Fire Island, under Dr. Mary Monroe, choir director, which gave him great joy. The date of a Memorial Service will be announced shortly. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the Jenks Computer Algebra Prize to be awarded for outstanding work in software engineering in computer algebra, c/o Professor B.F. Caviness, Dept. of Computer & Information Sciences, 103 Smith Hall, University of Delaware, Newark, DE 19716; or to The Music Fund of the Church at Point O'Woods, Point O'Woods, NY 11706.
      