
        SASSO--Thomas Edward. We mourn the untimely death of Tommy Sasso, loving best friend to all. Thomas Edward Sasso, 51, of Ridgewood, New Jersey, died on January 1, 2004, in Westchester, New York, of injuries sustained in an automobile accident on the afternoon of Monday, December 29. He is survived by his cherished wife, Kate Quackenbush Sasso and beloved daughter, Allison Quackenbush Sasso; his loving parents, Thomas A. and Felicia Lettieri Sasso of Teaneck, his loving sister, Diane F. Sasso, and devoted brother-in-law, George Karelitsky, of Ridgewood; nieces Elizabeth Sasso-Karelitsky, Susan A. Martin, and Sarah Bruno; nephews Noah and Alexander Sasso-Karelitsky, and Samuel F. Martin; parents-inlaw R. Donald and Audrey Gordon Quackenbush; sisters and brothers-in-law, Susan Q. and John A. Martin and Lynn Q. and Robert Bruno, and more best friends than one can imagine. He was a proud graduate of St. Peter's Preparatory, Class of 1970, and of Boston College, Class of 1974. Even as a youth, Tom was a natural leader and drew people to him with a great passion for life. President of the Real Estate Lenders' Association of New York and a well known professional in commercial real estate, Tom was recognized as both a knowledgeable competitor and valuable partner. He began his career with Chemical Bank, later joining the Chase Manhattan Bank and subsequently GE Capital, where he served as Senior Vice President. Tom was an expert backgammon player, an enthusiastic sailor, and the winner of an award for golfing. Having survived major cancer surgery in 2000, he was downhill skiing within six months and proudly completed the Ridgewood Memorial Day Run within a year. Tommy supported many charitable organizations. He was a populist, a humanist, a gentleman with a passion for justice and peace. He invited divergent views and encouraged debate. He had an uncommon generosity, always lending a hand and encouraging others to give of themselves. Tommy was a treasure to all of us. He will be terribly missed. For visitation information, contact Feeney's Funeral Home, Ridgewood, New Jersey, 201444-7650. A celebration of Tom's life and a special Mass will be held on Wednesday, January 7, 10:45 AM, at Mt. Carmel Church, Ridgewood.
      