
        FISHER--Jodi. The Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing of the beloved wife of Dr. Barry Fisher, mother of Jordan, Samantha and Charlie, to whom heartfelt condolences are extended, as well as to her parents, Rhoda and Richard Spiegel; her brothers, Robert and Jeffrey Spiegel; her grandmother, YU Guardian Rose Yavarkovsky, Executive Council member of the Yeshiva University Women's Organization; and her uncles, YU Guardian Ira Yavarkovsky, member of the Wurzweiler School of Social Work Board of Governors, and Jerome Yavarkovsky. The entire Yavarkovsky family are deeply cherished friends of our institution. May they all be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Robert Schwalbe, Chairman Wurzweiler Board of Governors Dinah Pinczower National Chairman, YUWO
        FISHER--Jodi. The members and staff of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Long Island Jewish Medical Center, are profoundly saddened by the sudden and early passing of Jodi Fisher, devoted wife and loving mother, a most vibrant and caring lady. Our thoughts, prayers and heartfelt sympathies go to our esteemed colleague, Dr. Barry Fisher, who plays such a vital part in the workings of our department, and to their adorable children, Jordan, Samantha and Charlie, and to all of Jodi's family and friends at this time of their their heartwrenching loss. Jodi, we miss you and we'll always remember you. David M. Dines, M.D., Chairman, Members and Staff
        FISHER--Jodi. The Jewish Center of Atlantic Beach records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Jodi Fisher, wife of our esteemed member Dr. Barry Fisher, daughter of our esteemed members Rhoda and Richard Spiegel, granddaughter of our esteemed member Rose Yavarkovsky and niece of our esteemed member Ira Yavarkovsky. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem and know no further sorrow.
        FISHER--Jodi. Our hearts are broken at the sudden passing of our dear, beautiful Jodi, a special member of our extended family. To her devoted family Barry, Jordan, Samantha, Charlie, Rhoda and Dick, Robert and Jill, Jeffrey and Meredith and Grandma Rose, we are overwhelmed with grief. Gayle, Brooke and Walter, Dina and Marc
        FISHER--Jodi. To know you and to love you was just natural. We will always remember your beauty and your sweet nature that now lives on in Jordan, Samantha and Charlie. Our hearts go out to Rhoda, Dick, Robert, Jeffrey, Barry, Jordan, Samantha and Charlie. Our love and prayers are with you all. Ornella and Robert
        FISHER--Jodi. We mourn the loss of our dear friends' daughter. Her smile and warm loving ways will be missed. Our sympathies and love to the family. Marcia and Carl, Barbara and Mickey, Paula and Steve, Sheila and Donald, and Arlene
        FISHER--Jodi. The Board of Governors and the Members of the Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved Member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her husband Dr. Barry Fisher and family. Ted Markson, President Seawane Club
        FISHER--Jodi. We mourn the passing of our best friend Jodi Fisher. Her kind and gentle spirit, her love of her husband, children and dear friends will be an inspiration to us for years to come. We love you and will miss you. Beth, Peter, Jonathan, Alexander and Zachary Salm
        FISHER--Jodi. Best friend, sister-in-law, and so much more. I have you to thank for my beautiful life with Robert, Megan and Ryan. Life will be a struggle everyday without you but you will be in my heart every waking moment. Rest in peace. Jill
        FISHER--Jodi. To our dear loving friend, Jodi Fisher, you will forever remain in our hearts and your memory will live on through your three beautiful children. Ellen and Marc, and Lisa and Eric
        FISHER--Jodi. We will miss your incredible laugh and beautiful smile. Our heartfelt sympathy to the Spiegel and Fisher families. Love, Tara and Jeffrey Kahn Jake, Alex and Malcolm
        FISHER--Jodi. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend Jodi. We will always have her beautiful smile in our hearts. All our love. Melissa, Paul, Brynn & Jack
        FISHER--Jodi. Our heartfelt condolences to the Spiegel and Fisher families. Norman and Linda Rosner
      