
        ZALAZNICK--Edward Phillip. Perished in a plane crash on January 2 along with his beloved wife Isabelle Fouchard and three adored sons, David (12), Paul (9), Thomas (TT) (6). In addition, six members of the Fouchard family also died. Ed was a graduate of Scarsdale, NY High School, Tufts University (Summa Cum Laude and Phi Beta Kappa), and NYU Law School. In New York, he was an Associate at Shulte, Roth and Zabel. The family moved to Paris in 1994 and Ed joined Elf Aquitaine (now TotalFina) as a specialist in Mergers/ Acquisitions and the SEC. He was recently named Chief of the Division. The tragedy occurred at the end of a family vacation at Sharm-El-Sheik. In a New Year's call to his mother Gilda Gellin Zalaznick, he described the awe of all 11 family members watching the sunrise on Mt. Sinai after climbing the mountain together. Ed was a renaissance man. He could have been a writer, a painter, a teacher, a chef he was all of these things. But mainly, he was a principled man, who believed in the goodness of his fellow humans and who tried to live every day to the fullest. He was a wonderful husband, father, son, sibling and especially a friend. His survivors include his mother, his sister Dana Grossman (Lee), his brother Brian (Bobby), two nephews Steven Gorel and Benjamin Zalaznick, his brother-in-law David Fouchard (who had been unable to make the trip with the family) and hundreds of friends. His life was a blessing, one we will never forget. Dana Zalaznick Grossman will host a gathering Thursday between 6 and 9 P.M., 34 Sherwood Road, Greenwich. A Memorial service will be held in the future. Contributions in Ed's memory can be made to The Gellin Foundation, Inc., of which Ed was a Trustee, 29 Beechcroft Road, Greenwich, CT 06830, or to a charity of your choice.
        ZALAZNICK -- Edward. As friends of the Zalaznick family for many years, we are all shocked and saddened at the sudden and untimely death of Eddie, Isabelle, David, Paul and ''T.T''. Zalaznick. We are lucky to have known them and in some small way to share in their love for each other. As a Grandmother, my heart cries for Grandma Gilda who suffered a loss that can never be replaced. We will miss Eddie and his family forever and think of them always. Bobbi Optican Warren and Family Bill, Scott, Sonia, Todd, Donna, Marci, Greg and Tony
        ZALAZNICK -- Edward and Isabelle. We mourn the untimely passing of Edward and Isabelle Zalaznick and their children, Paul, David and Thomas. Words cannot describe our profound sorrow and sense of loss. To Gilda, Dana, Lee and Steven, Brian, Bobbi and Benjamin we extend our deepest condolences. We cherish our memories of your family, and hope our continuing love and support will be of comfort during this difficult time. Susan and Robert Keiser Lori and Jeffrey Keiser Linda and Adam Roberts
        ZALAZNICK -- Edward. We mourn the terribly untimely death of Edward, Isabelle, David, Paul and ''T.T''. Edward was the most caring, kind, exceptional young man, who possessed a keen intellect, wonderful comedic flair and considerable artistic skills. His family was the light of his life. It is with profound sorrow and heavy hearts that we extend our condolences to the family of Edward Zalaznick. The Mattikow Family Nina, Alfred, Stacy, Jeff, Jamie & April
        ZALAZNICK -- Edward. We mourn the untimely loss of young lives cut short. Edward and Isabelle were kind, intelligent and caring people. The whole Zalaznick family doted on David, Paul and Thomas. Our hearts go out to Gilda, Dana and Lee, Brian and Bobby, Steven and Ben. The Shatz Family: David and Ruthe, Michael and Lisa, Dan and Angela, Peter and Michelle, Matt and Lisa
      