
        TISHMAN--Alan Valentine, 86, passed away Tuesday evening, January 13, 2004. Beloved husband of 62 years of Peggy (nee Margaret Westheimer). Loving brother of Robert V. Tishman and Virginia T. Meyerson. Darling father of Pat T. and James Q. Hall, the late David Henry Tishman and the late Virginia (Nina) Alexander. Adored grandfather of Adam and Laurie Bramwell, Margaret and David Doyle and David Alexander and Lauren Alexander and father-in-law of Richard Alexander. Beloved great grandfather of Patrick, Christopher and Katharine Doyle. Also survived by many loving nieces, nephews and cousins. Mr. Tishman was the former Chairman of the Dartmouth College Real Estate Committee, VicePresident of the Jewish Child Care Association and one of the original developers of the Association for a Better New York. Family and friends are invited to the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home at 1076 Madison Avenue on Thursday, January 15, 2004, between 4:00 and 7:00. Services will be Friday, January 16, 2004, at noon at Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 East 79th Street. Gifts to Mt. Sinai Hospital, the Jewish Child Care Association, Dartmouth College and the charity of your choice woule be greatly appreciated.
        TISHMAN--Alan. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are deeply saddened by the death of Alan Tishman, brother of our long-time friend and esteemed Honorary Chairman of the Board, Robert Tishman. Our heartfelt condolences go out to Robert, a member of the Montefiore Board of Trustees for close to 50 years, and his entire family. Spencer Foreman, M.D. President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees Montefiore Medical Center
        TISHMAN--Alan V. Our dear former colleague, Alan Tishman, was a wonderful friend to all of us and we will miss him. The partners, associates and staff of Tishman Speyer Properties wish to express our sincere condolences to our chairman, Robert Tishman, to Peggy and Pat, and to Alan's entire family. We hope the family will be comforted by wonderful memories of a life well lived. Tishman Speyer Properties
        TISHMAN--Alan. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York extends its heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Past President, Peggy Tishman on the passing of her beloved husband. May the entire family be conforted among the the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ezra G. Levin, President Michael S. Miller, Exec. V.P.
        TISHMAN--Alan V. It was a privilege to have known Alan Tishman for 47 years. He was a man of substance, great presence and extraordinary character. The loss to his friends and family is profound. This wonderful man is irreplaceable. Fran Baron
        TISHMAN--Alan V. A unique man who emanated enormous warmth, charm and compassion. He made friends feel like family. Our deepest sympathies to our dear friend Pat, her mother Peggy and their families. Doreen and Peter Rogers
      