
        REHMAR--Michael Isadore, M.D., Col., USAF Retired, died at home on January 6th. Dr. Rehmar was born in Cleveland, Ohio, May 21, 1925. He graduated Glenville High School with honors and was selected for the V-12 Naval Officer-Training Program at Williams College during WW II, graduating Phi Beta Kappa. He attended the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, graduated in 1949, and did his post-graduate work in Internal Medicine at Cleveland's Mount Sinai Hospital. He greatly enjoyed a distinguished 28-year career in the Air Force, most as Hospital Commander. He was awarded the Legion of Merit Medal in 1973. As a flight surgeon, he established new medical facilities and communication sites around the world before retiring with the rank of Colonel in 1974. Dr. Rehmar joined General Electric in 1974 as New York area and International Medical Director, and first Corporate EAP Director, initiating a strong alcohol and substance abuse program for employees and training for managers. From 1975 to 1995, Dr. Rehmar worked at The New York Hospital and Cornell Medical College as Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine teaching Physical Diagnosis to medical students and volunteering in the general medical clinic. In 1988, he received his certification in Addiction Medicine. He was a board member of the Alcoholism Council of New York and was instrumental in developing a training program for counselors. In 1991, he was appointed Medical Director of the Methadone Maintenance Clinic of Long Island Jewish Hospital and instituted changes for patients that continue today. He always believed that there was hope in recovery from addiction. Dr. Rehmar believed strongly in his work as an old fashioned physician, one who truly cared for his patients and their families. In 1993, Dr. Rehmar joined Frontier Insurance Company as Medical Director of Medical Malpractice Claims. He was active in the NY County Society of Internal Medicine and President for 2 years. He served on the Board of Directors of the NY County Medical Society from 1992-2001 and as Chair of the Committees on Public Health and By-Laws. His ability to listen, his intelligence and his sense of humor were his hallmarks. Michael's passion for music began in childhood with the family's wind-up Victrola and the Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts. He had a natural ly beautiful voice and loved to sing. He had a strong Jewish identity and was a staunch supporter of Israel. Michael was devoted to the causes of peace and justice and single payer health care. He had a lifelong love of animals, especially of his Boxers, Bowden and Lady, and his cat, Program. Michael was a magnificent human being who taught and selflessly helped many. He is predeceased by his parents, Mamie and Solomon, and his twin sister, Anita Talbert. He is survived by his wife and best friend, Miriam Pollack; his children Ellen, Marc and Alan (Tamara); grandsons, Adam, Aaron, Alexander and Nolan; sister, Judith Millenson; nieces, Debra and Leslie Millenson; nephews, Jeffrey and Ellis Talbert, and families; cousins, Judith and David Botwin. Services will be at Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 East 70th St on Friday, January 9, at 1 PM. Burial at Arlington National Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, please donate to the charity of your choice. Cleveland Plain Dealer, please copy
        REHMAR--Michael. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Miriam Pollack, his children and grandchildren and their loved ones. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Rabbi Scott Corngold Cantor Bruce L. Ruben Michael H. Laufer, President
      