
        GARFINKLE--Sandor, founder of Gemini Industries, dies at 67. Sandor Garfinkle, the founder and long-time CEO of Gemini Industries of Clifton, NJ and an active philanthropist, died yesterday in his home in Boca Raton, Florida. He was 67. Mr. Garfinkle founded Gemini Industries in 1964 and oversaw its growth into a multi-million dollar corporation and one of the leading manufacturers of consumer electronics accessories. Under Mr. Garfinkle's management, the corporation was sold to Wesray in 1985, and to Merrill Lynch Capital Partners in 1989. He was an active but quiet philanthropist, who supported a wide variety of causes. Mr. Garfinkle was an especially ardent friend and champion of the Jewish Community, both at home and abroad. His love of nature and the arts was combined in his support for the tradition of wildfowl carving, a uniquely American art form. Most of his prominent collection of works from contemporary American artists will be given to the Ward Museum of Wildfowl Art in Salisbury, Maryland. Mr. Garfinkle is survived by his wife of 46 years, Rani, of Boca Raton and Manhattan. In addition, he is survived by his children, Suzy Garfinkle Chevrier, of Boca Raton; Benjamin Garfinkle of Fort Lee, NJ, Steven and Victoria Garfinkle of Bellingham, WA; grandchildren Matthew, Ari, Sophi, Jakob and Rebecca Garfinkle and Claire, Joelle and Natalie Chevrier, and his dear nieces and nephews. Service Monday Boca Raton.
        GARFINKLE -- Sandor. Be loved husband of Rani, adored father and grandfather and a loved and respected friend. Sandy's legacy will be his intelligence, devotion to family, friends, Israel and the Jewish people. He gave of his time to help any worthwhile cause. He did not know how to say no. His advice and generosity cannot be put into words. We will miss our dear friend, but he will never be forgotten. He has taught us all a wonderful lesson on how to live, to love and to die. With love and admiration, Mel and Judy Opper
        GARFINKLE -- Sandy. The Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach County, Florida mourns the passing of Sandy Garfinkle. Sandy was a dedicated philanthropist and beloved Executive Committee/ Board Member and Benefactor of the Jewish Federation. His commitment and generosity to our Jewish community will leave a lasting legacy. He was a superb role model for all of us. May his memory be a blessing.
        GARFINKLE -- Sandor. The Members, Board of Governors and Officers of the Preakness Hills Country Club mourn the loss of a good friend and fellow member of longstanding and extend their deepest sympathies to his wife, Rani, and the family. Robert Chestnov, President
        GARFINKLE--Sandor. What a loss for his family, friends, federation and the entire community. Larry Phillips
      