
        BAYER--Merwin, 88. Beloved husband of 63 years to Molly. Loving father of Virginia and the late Hank. Caring fatherin-law of Janice Bayer and Rabbi Robert Hirt. Adored grandfather of David, Brad and Hilary. Cherished brother of Jean Kauvar, Abba, and brother-in-law to Irving Silverman. Devoted cousin of Jeffrey Klein. Mr. Bayer was former President of Arnold Constable Corporation and NoName stores. Funeral service Friday, January 23rd, 9:30 AM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St.
        BAYER--Merwin. The officers, Board of Trustees and the entire Abraham Joshua Heschel School community are deeply saddened by the passing of Merwin Bayer, father of our esteemed Trustee and past President, Virginia Bayer, father-in-law of Rabbi Robert Hirt and grandfather of alumnus, David B. Slifka. Merwin was a devoted husband, father and grandfather. He was an accomplished gentleman loved by all who knew him. He treated everyone with the utmost respect and kindness. We send our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife Molly, Virginia, Robert, David and the entire Bayer family. Alisa R. Doctoroff President, Board of Trustees Roanna Shorofsky, Head of School
        BAYER--Merwin. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved father and father-in-law of our distinguished members, Mrs. Virginia Bayer Hirt and Rabbi Robert Hirt, and the grandson of our founding President, the late Mr. William Fischman. May the entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood
        BAYER--Merwin. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Merwin Bayer. To his family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres Herbert C. Bernard, Sec'y
        BAYER--Merwin. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Merwin Bayer. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Molly, and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard J. Bronstein, Secy
      