
        NESS--Anne Farrar Semple, 96, died at a nursing home in Mashpee, MA on January 11, 2004. Philip Wahmann Ness, her husband of 72 years, died recently. Mrs. Ness graduated from the Mary Institute (St. Louis, MO) in 1925 and the Knox School (Cooperstown, NY) in 1927. She was an avid sportswoman and versatile musician. Mrs. Ness is a descendant of the original settling families of Virginia and early American families who came to St. Louis after the Louisiana Purchase. A distant grandfather, Nicholas Farrar, was a leading member of the Virginia company that backed the first settlement. She is a descendant of William Clark, co-leader of the Great Expedition to the Pacific in 1804 to 1806; General Bernard Farrar, who helped organize the Missouri Volunteer Infantry, commanded a Union army brigade at the siege of Vicksburg and was later military governor of Natchez, MS district; and Oliver A. Hart, a leading St. Louis architect and industrialist in the mid 1800's who helped rebuild St. Louis after the Great Fire in 1849. A memorial service is planned in Osterville, MA. early this summer.
        NESS--Philip Wahmann, 97, former Chairman of the Board of Alexander & Alexander, a major international insurance broker, died of pneumonia in Mashpee, MA. on December 24, 2003. He predeceased his wife of 72 years, Anne Semple Ness, 96. He graduated from the Friends School in Baltimore and Johns Hopkins University. He received a Distinguished Alumni Award from Johns Hopkins in 1999. He began his insurance career at the height of the Great Depression and was a pioneer in establishing insurance-based private pension plans. He joined Alexander & Alexander in 1934 and brought A&A public in 1969. He expanded its business base by acquisitions and development of international brokerage ventures. After retiring from A&A, he served as non-executive Chairman of the U.S. affiliate of Robert Fleming, a global investment management firm based in the United Kingdom and Asia. He is survived by two sons, Philip Wahmann Ness Jr. and Peter Semple Ness, both of Greenwich, CT, numerous grandchildren, three great grandchildren. A memorial service is planned in Osterville, MA early summer 2004.
      