
        MILLER -- Bernice Glaser. The children, family and friends of Mrs. Bernice (Basie) Glaser Miller were saddened to learn of her passing on December 30, 2003, at the age of 89. Basie was the adoring wife of William, an attorney in Princeton, NJ, from 1939 until his death in 1977, and then of Ralph Porges, from 1984 until 1998. For the past five years, she had enjoyed an active life at Orchard Cove in Canton, MA. She loved her sister and brother-in-law, Selma and Samuel Reiner of New York City, her brother, the late Sidney Glaser, and his wife, Martha of Boynton Beach, FL, and her cousins Barbara and Howard Malloy of Stamford, CT, and Betty Young of Rumson, NJ. Basie graduated from New York University and then received her master's degree from Columbia University in New York. She married William and they moved to Princeton, NJ, in 1939. Basie had a very productive life in Princeton and enthusiastically engrossed herself in community activities. She taught speech and drama at Princeton High School, was President of the League of Women Voters, was an elected member of the Princeton Board of Education, a Vice President of the Princeton Chapter of Deborah Hospital, one of the founders of the Jewish Center of Princeton, and Director of the Princeton United Jewish Appeal. Basie was also instrumental in the construction of the John Witherspoon Middle School in Princeton Borough, and she was a tireless worker on behalf of consolidation for Princeton Borough and Township. But her social and civic contributions paled in comparison to her roles as a Mother, Grandmother and Great-Grandmother. Her children (Susan and Steven Sewall of Lincoln, MA; Fred and Lee Miller of Louisville, KY; and Lowell Miller and Gail Bradney of Woodstock, NY), grandchildren (Kimberly Sachs, Derek Sewall, Tara Rozen, Jessica Rath and Finn Alvaro), nieces (Louise Gutheil, Nancy Ingram, Janet Taxin and Irene Margulies), and six great-grandchildren will always be influenced by her intense motivation to always ''do the right thing.'' Her axioms on behavior, enthusiasm for life, social consciousness, sense of fairness and belief in the importance of good nutrition and exercise will be forever engrained on subsequent generations of family that follow her. Her last words to her three children were, ''Remember to eat your breakfast.'' Contributions in her memory may be made to the Jewish Center of Princeton, 435 Nassau St, Princeton, NJ 08542. For further information Kimble Funeral Home, Princeton, New Jersey.
      