
        POND--Charles ''Chuck'' Jr. An electrical contractor in Fairfield County for 30 years, who was easily recognizable by the gold leaf CWP logo that adorned the company's fleet of trucks, died on Friday, January 23, 2004, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York. He was 68, and lived in Norwalk, CT. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife Patricia Pinto Pond. C.W., as he was known, completed hundreds of projects in and around Fairfield County Connecticut. These projects involved electrical design, new construction and corporate renovation. Chuck built a clientele that has been loyal to him and the C.W. Pond family for more than 30 years. Chuck was very proud of his relationships with his professional staff and the family atmosphere he fostered at his organization. His peers, associates and customers recognized and respected him as a leader in the industry with a vision that allowed him to excel in the trade. He was a highly respected pioneer in design and build and value engineer concepts, and has passed his knowledge on to his son Jeff and other key members of the C.W. Pond team. Chuck was a proud veteran of the armed forces, having served in the U.S. Army in the First Howitzer Battalion, Second Artillery, in Baumholder, Germany. After his service, Pond relocated to Stamford, CT. Pond had a long and prosperous career as a contractor in Fairfield County, having formed various C.W. Pond companies, starting in 1974. He was an avid yachtsman and a member of the Stamford Yacht Club and New York Yacht Club. He began boating in 1979, and sailed for many years on sailboats that bore the name ''Perpetual Motion.'' His most recent boat was a custom green hulled motor yacht named after his uncle, Raymond ''Ducky'' Pond, the legendary Yale football coach. ''Ducky'' could be seen in the summers from Nantucket to Newport, all over Long Island Sound and in the winters in Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Pond was born in Torrington, CT, in 1935, and was the son of the late Charles and Mildred Pond, and brother of the late Linda Pond Richardson. He leaves behind his beloved and adoring wife and partner, Patricia Pinto Pond, and is survived by his three children and their spouses, daughter Susan Saracena and her husband Tom, son Jeff Pond and his wife Donna and son Kyle Pond and his wife Susan, plus seven grandchildren. Calling hours will take place on Wednesday, January 28, at the Leo P. Gallagher and Son Funeral Home, 2900 Summer Street in Stamford, CT, from 3-5 pm, and 7-9 pm. A memorial service to celebrate Chuck's life will take place on Thursday, January 29, at 10 am, at St. Mary's Church, at 566 Elm Street in Stamford, CT. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the Cancer Foundation, c/o Norwalk Hospital, Maple Street, Norwalk, CT 06856.
      