
        WIND--Oscar, of Lawrence, NY, age 91, passed away peacefully on January 13, just short of his 70th wedding anniversary to his devoted and beloved wife Sylvia. Proud father of Edward, Michael and Jane, loving grandfather of Stacy, Andrea, David, Kenneth and Kelley, and adored great-grandfather of 12. Services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, NY, at 11:30 AM, Thursday, January 15. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, contributions be made in Oscar's memory to North Shore LIJ Health System Foundation, 125 Community Dr., Great Neck, NY 11021.
        WIND--Oscar. Papa Sonny, you have brightened our lives. You will always be in our hearts. Andrea and Neil, Danny, Allison and Kelsey Stacy, Marnie, Suzy and Kimby David and Felisa, Tyler, Krae and Noa Kelley, Kenneth and Robin, Alex, Olivia and Max
        WIND--Oscar. Happy is the man who reveres G-d and delights in doing G-d's will. His children will be greatly honored and his grandchildren greatly blessed. Abundance will fill his house as gratitude fills his heart. He conducts his affairs with justice. His integrity cannot be shaken. He gives of himself to the poor and shares his wealth with the needy. He is patient, cheerful, compassionate, generous and impeccably fair. He harbors no regrets for the past and no worries about the future. His mind is centered in G-d and he trusts G-d with all his heart. He honors himself and is honored. He walks with his head held high. His rising is like the sunrise and his light fills heaven and earth. His righteousness shines on all people, his good work endures forever. Blessed is the Man, Psalm 112. You are my grandfather, in fact. You gave me love and affection without qualification for over 20 years. You shared your office and your confidences with me. I enjoyed our business lunches as well. You inspired me and gave me strength in the early days. You never compromised your integrity. You were the consummate accounting and real estate professional. Gramps, you will always be in my heart. Sheldon M. Geller
      