
        GOLDSTEIN -- Helen Kirsh blum. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Helen Kirshblum Goldstein, beloved wife of Rabbi Leonard Goldstein. A valued trustee of the JTS board, Helen was a woman of great sagacity, boundless energy and impeccable taste. By profession an instructor of public speaking, she made a vocation of communal service. In 1999 she culminated a lifetime of devotion to JTS by creating the Helen Fried Kirshblum Goldstein chair in practical rabbinics, a name that bore the imprint of a difficult journey. She will be a role model for students and faculty for years to come. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Board Chairman
        GOLDSTEIN--Helen. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Helen Goldstein, beloved wife of Rabbi Leonard Goldstein and mother of J. Michael Fried. Along with her husband, Helen was greatly admired for her devotion to the New York Jewish community. Her legacy of Jewish values and philanthropy continues to live on through the efforts of her son, Michael, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. We extend our deepest sympathies to Rabbi Goldstein; Michael and Janet Fried; and to Helen's entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        GOLDSTEIN -- Helen Fried. JBI International (formerly The Jewish Braille Institute) is deeply saddened by the passing of our longtime Trustee, Helen Fried Goldstein. Our heartfelt condolences go to her husband, Rabbi Leonard Goldstein, and to her sons, Arthur and Michael Fried. Helen's contributions to the welfare of the Jewish blind and visually impaired, and to the broader Jewish community are legion. We extend our deepest sympathy to her entire family, certain in the knowledge that her memory will serve as a blessing. Barbara B. Friedman, Pres Dr. Ellen Isler, Exec V.P.
        GOLDSTEIN -- Helen Fried Kirshblum. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of the mother of its esteemed former officer and friend, Arthur William Fried. Our heartfelt sympathies to the bereaved family. Yaakov Y. Kermaier, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman J. Ezra Merkin, President
      