
        FISHER -- Elizabeth. The Board of Trustees, faculty and staff of The Rockefeller University and the scientists and staff of the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research mourn the loss of our cherished friend and benefactor, Elizabeth Fisher. A tireless patriot, devoted volunteer, and generous philanthropist, Elizabeth honored our country by championing the causes of American troops and their families for more than four decades. As founders of the Intrepid Museum, she and her late husband, Zachary, gave New York and the nation a great American treasure. Through the establishment of the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research, she and Zachary became valiant leaders in efforts to conquer one of the most dreaded diseases of aging. We are saddened by her passing and send our deep condolences to her son William Crovello, her niece Sunnie Kenowsky, and the entire Fisher family. Paul Nurse, President Richard B. Fisher, Chairman of the Board David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Paul Greengard, Vincent Astor Professor and Director, Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research The Rockefeller University
        FISHER--Elizabeth M. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Elizabeth M. Fisher, an extraordinary friend of the Jewish community. With her late husband, Zachary, Mrs. Fisher earned enormous respect for her generosity and compassion. A beloved leader of UJA-Federation and a philanthropic giant, Mr. Fisher expressed an unwavering commitment to improving the lives of those less fortunate. Together, their contributions to Israel and the Jewish people will be felt for generations to come. We mourn the loss of a dear friend and extend our deepest sympathies to Mrs. Fisher's son, William Crovello, and the entire Fisher family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        FISHER--Elizabeth M. It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of Elizabeth Fisher, co-founder with Zachary Fisher, her late husband, of the Fisher Alzheimer's Disease Education and Resources Program at the New York University School of Medicine. They inspired and funded important research which has and will continue to benefit millions of persons worldwide. Condolences to her son, William Crovello, and the Fisher Family. Barry Reisberg, M.D. on behalf of the Fisher NYU Program
        FISHER--Elizabeth Kenwosky. The Board of Directors, Officers, Staff and Volunteers of the USO of Metropolitan New York are deeply saddened of the passing of our great friend, Elizabeth Fisher. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family and friends. Stephen J. Scheffer Chairman of the Board
      