
        KATZ--Sheldon C. The Rent Stabilization Association of New York City mourns the loss of Sheldon C. Katz, its longtime Chairman of the Board. Mr. Katz was a giant in the real estate industry who during his 26 years as RSA Chairman was a staunch defender of the rights of small property owners, calling them the backbone of the residential market, and an advocate of privately developed affordable housing. Even during his long and debilitating illness, he found the strength and courage to champion the cause of small property owners. His counsel will be sorely missed, but his voice will be heard forever through the indelible mark he has left on our industry from his years of commitment, dedication and sincerity. On behalf of RSA's 25,000 members, our prayers and condolences are extended to his wife of 41 years, Deana; his son, RSA Board member Lennard A. Katz, and the entire Katz family. Joseph Strasburg, RSA President Arnold Goldstein, RSA Acting Chairman RSA Board Of Directors
        KATZ--Sheldon C. We will miss this selfless, remarkable man who lived with courage and spirit and set an example for all of us. Sheldon was like a father to us and we will never forget his gentle guidance, his love and support and the sense of humor that he maintained despite his illness. Our hearts are broken for Deana, Lenny and Amy, Sari and Olen, Nanci and his grandchildren, but we know that they will find strength in his legacy. David and Nancy Katz Ronnie and Cindy Katz Susie and Lee Schulman
        KATZ--Sheldon C. The Community Housing Improvement Program joins the real estate industry in mourning the loss of Sheldon C. Katz, a founding member and past president of our organization. Sheldon's wisdom and courage in battling rent regulations and other industry issues will be missed. Andrew Hoffman, President CHIP
        KATZ--Sheldon C. We mourn the loss of this MDA Vice President, our dear friend and dedicated ally in the fight against ALS. Jerry Lewis National Chairman Robert M. Bennett Chairman of the Board Robert Ross President and CEO Muscular Dystrophy Assoc.
        KATZ--Sheldon. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Deana and his children, Lennard, Sari and Nanci, on the loss of their beloved Sheldon. Our condolences go out to the entire Katz family. With love, Sandy, Joe and Aaron Sirulnick
      