
        MEYER -- Elizabeth. We mourn the passing of Elizabeth Meyer, age 60, artist and educator, who died Wednesday, January 7th, of complications from pneumonia. Known to her friends and family as Betsy, she was an accomplished painter, whose works are part of numerous public and private collections, including the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, the Pew Charitable Trusts and Washington University in St. Louis Medical Center. Her paintings and sculpture were also shown at Mangel Gallery in Philadelphia, Viridian Gallery in New York and the Philadelphia Museum of Art's sale and rental gallery. She participated in group exhibitions at The American Cultural Center in Brussels, Belgium, the State Museum of Pennsylvania in Harrisburg and in the Offices of former U.S. Senator Harris Wofford in Washington. In 1993, Betsy was part of a national cable TV broadcast on the Bravo Network from the National Arts Club in New York. In 2002, she completed a course in Advanced Theoretical and Critical Studies in the Fine Arts at the Barnes Foundation under a grant from the Violette de Mazia Trust. She began her career as a teacher in the New York City Public Schools and later led her own graphic design firm that created products for children's literary characters including Paddington Bear and Cabbage Patch Kids. She was a teacher and board member at the Main Line Art Center in Haverford, PA, the Institute of Contemporary Art at the University of Pennsylvania, and the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. Mrs. Meyer earned a masters degree in painting from the Academy in 1993. She also held a certificate from the same institution and a B.S. in Arts Education from New York University. Mrs. Meyer is survived by her husband of 37 years, Edward Meyer, her two sons, Andrew and Scott, and her mother, Ada Barnett. An endowed fund has been established in her memory at the Main Line Art Center. Memorial donations may be made to the Main Line Art Center, Old Buck Road and Lancaster Avenue, Haverford, PA 19041. A private funeral is planned for Sunday and a celebration of her life will be held on Friday, January 16th, at 1 PM, at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia.
      