
        TURNBULL -- Mary Beryl Patch, on January 7, 2004 of Washington, D.C. and Southampton, New York, formerly of Montclair, New Jersey. The beloved mother of Constance Nyatta and her husband Mwasi of Nairobi, Kenya and Joan Turnbull Carl and her husband Bernard of Washington, D.C, died peacefully in her home in Washington. Her daughter Joan and her granddaughters Alexandra Turnbull Carl and Jennifer Turnbull Carl were by her side. In addition to Alex and Jennifer, Mary left behind three other grandchildren, Joan's son Andrew Mackie Turnbull Carl and Connie's children Inosi Kiara and her husband Gitonga, and Mwashuma Nyatta. She is also survived by her sister Margaret Patch Upton. Mary was born in Beirut, Lebanon, on March 7, 1914. She was the fifth child of a Scottish mother, Caroline McDuff Mackie, and an American father, James Alfred Patch. Her grandfather was a Presbyterian missionary from Aberdeen and her father, the head of Beirut's American University Chemistry Department, was a friend and colleague of T.E. Lawrence (''Lawrence of Arabia'') during the tumultuous years of World War I in the Middle East. While she was still a child, Mary's family returned to Stoneham, Massachusetts, where her father and uncle ran the Patch Pharmaceutical Company. Mary graduated from Wheaton College in 1935 and received further degrees in Occupational Therapy in Boston and at Columbia University in New York. Mary's marriage to Fred Leroy Turnbull ended in divorce, but the two remained soul mates until her death. Mary's family and friends called her Nana, and admired her New England traits of honesty, courage, simple elegance and generosity of spirit. Her passions were her family and her garden. She delighted equally in the stories her grandchildren shared around the dining room table and in the feel and smell of the earth, where, for her, joy flowed from every flower and tree. Nana's inexhaustible energy for life, for learning, for caring and for bringing peace and comfort and beauty into the lives of her family and friends, remain her legacy. Services will be held in the Bethlehem Chapel at Washington National Cathedral, Washington D.C. on Monday, January 12, 2004 at 4 p.m. The family is planning a further remembrance over the summer in Nana's garden in Southampton, New York. May God hold our gentle mother in His loving hands. Interment private. In lieu of flowers Memorial Contributions may be made in Mary Turnbull's name to the Johns Hopkins Vasculitis Center, c/o Dr. David Hellmann, 4940 Eastern Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland, 21224-2780.
      