
        TISHMAN--Alan Valentine, 86, passed away Tuesday evening, January 13, 2004. Beloved husband of 62 years of Peggy (nee Margaret Westheimer). Darling father of Pat T. and James Q. Hall, the late David Henry Tishman and the late Virginia (Nina) Alexander. Adored grandfather of Adam and Laurie Bramwell, Margaret and David Doyle and David Alexander and Lauren Alexander and father-in-law of Richard Alexander. Beloved great grandfather of Patrick, Christopher and Katharine Doyle. Mr. Tishman was the former Chairman of the Dartmouth College Real Estate Committee, Vice-President of the Jewish Child Care Association and one of the original developers of the Association for a Better New York. Family and friends are invited to the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home at 1076 Madison Avenue on Thursday, January 15, 2004, between 4:00 and 7:00. Services will be Friday, January 16, 2004, at noon at Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 East 79th Street.
        TISHMAN--Alan V. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Alan V. Tishman, a beloved leader and cherished friend. As president of the Tishman Management and Leasing Corporation, Alan was admired for his extraordinary accomplishments in the real estate industry. His exceptional success in business was matched only by his deep devotion to the Jewish community -- a commitment he shared with his beloved wife, Peggy, one of our most dynamic leaders, who became the first president of the merged UJA - Federation in 1986. Through their inspiring leadership, they have strengthened the future of our community, making an indelible impact while serving as cochairs of our cash collection efforts. Earning enormous respect for his unwavering commitment, Alan was treasured for his leadership as a board member of the Jewish Child Care Association and the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was a cherished leader in our Real Estate Division and served on many UJA-Federation committees, including our Campaign Steering Committee. Alan's humanitarian concerns live on in the continuing efforts of his family. We extend our deepest sympathies to Peggy; to their daughter, Pat Hall; and to the entire Tishman family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        TISHMAN--Alan V. The Officers, Trustees and staff of Jewish Child Care Association mourn the loss of Alan V. Tishman, a devoted and effective Trustee since 1961. Alan Tishman was a member of our Executive and Real Estate Committees and was a force behind JCCA's real estate transactions, helping the agency to improve its services to children and families through good management and wise allocation of assets. Mr. Tishman was generous with his time and resources and steadfast in his commitment to helping needy children and their families. We send our most sincere condolences to Peggy and the entire Tishman family on the loss of this extraordinary man. Barbara B. Mann, President Joyce L. Kramer, Bd Chair Richard Altman, CEO
        TISHMAN--Alan. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with great sadness the death of Alan Tishman. His vision and leadership were strongly felt in both the business and philanthropic worlds. His contribution to insuring the highest quality services to children and families has been significant. Our thoughts are with his wife Peggy, a cherished friend, supporter and, with Alan, a past JBFCS honoree. Together they set the bar high for all of us, to do what is right and what is needed, and to work tirelessly until it is done. Our condolences to Peggy and the entire family. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive VP and CEO
        TISHMAN -- Alan V. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Alan V. Tishman, who served with distinction as a Trustee and Life Trustee for the past thirty-two years. Alan's leadership and personal philanthropy reflected his long-time commitment to healthcare. Together with his wife, Peggy, Alan generously supported Mount Sinai Hospital's rebuilding efforts, and programs in geriatrics and cancer. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Peggy, and the entire Tishman family. Peter W. May, Chairman The Mount Sinai Medical Center Kenneth L. Davis, M.D. President and CEO The Mount Sinai Medical Center
        TISHMAN--Alan. The Board of Directors and Shareholders of 1095 Park Ave. Corp mourn the loss of Alan Tishman, a longtime resident, past Board Member and friend. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. Our sincerest condolences to his beloved wife, Peggy, and the entire Tishman family.
        TISHMAN -- Alan. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Peggy and their loved ones. May his memory be for blessing. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, President
        TISHMAN--Alan V. Alan, a friend of over 30 years, was a man of great wisdom, integrity, warmth and kindness. He had a wonderful spirit and was a marvelous partner. My deepest sympathy and love to Peggy and the entire family. Charles R. Borrok
      