
        GOLDSTEIN--Helen. It is with mournful heartache that we mark the passing of a truly wonderful, beautiful and exceptional woman, a great Jewish leader, Helen Fried Kirshblum Goldstein, distinguished recipient of our Women of Leadership and Vision Award, for which she delivered an eloquent and passionate acceptance speech at our annual gala in 2002. Helen and her loving husband, Rabbi Leonard Goldstein, have served with distinction as members of our Executive Committee and Founders Society and other committees, where we benefited from Helen's wisdom and guidance. Helen was a role model for Jewish commitment. Our prayers are with the Fried and Goldstein families on this painful loss, which we share. May her memory be for a blessing. Irwin Hochberg, Chair Irving M. Rosenbaum, Chair Emeritus Robert de Rothschild and A. Arthur Sherman, Founders Society Eric G. Heffler, Executive V.P. American Friends of The Open University of Israel
        GOLDSTEIN--Helen Feiner Fried Kirshblum. 91, died peacefully on January 4, 2004. Beloved wife of Rabbi Leonard Goldstein and the late Rabbi I. Usher Kirshblum and the late Albert Fried. Revered mother of Arthur and Michael Fried. Loving mother-in-law of Susan and Janet Fried. Adored grandmother of Alissa, Sara, Avraham, Abigail, Rachel, Zipporah, Miriam, Debra and Elisheva. Doting great-grandmother of Ayelet, Yael, Rebecca-Rose, Yonatan and Libi. Services 10:45 am, Monday, January 5, at Congregation Orach Chaim, Lexington Avenue between 94th and 95th Streets. Shiva at 25 East 86th Street.
        GOLDSTEIN -- Helen Fried Kirshblum. International President from 1962 to '66, Helen led the organization through the turbulence of the civil rights movement, the Vietnam War and the feminist revolution. She clearly understod her responsibility to respond to the burning issues confronting our membership. Helen will be remembered for her style, her beauty, her disarming wit and her great courage. Her voice all these years in the deliberations of Women's League will be greatly missed. Our sincere condolences to her loving family. May her memory be for a blessing. Gloria B. Cohen International President Bernice Balter Executive Director Women's League for Conservative Judaism
        GOLDSTEIN -- Helen. We mourn the passing of Mrs. Helen Goldstein, beloved wife of Rabbi Leonard Goldstein and cherished mother of Arthur W. Fried and Michael Fried. She left a noble legacy. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. The Trustees and Staff of The Avi Chai Foundation The Trustees and Staff of Keren Keshet The Rainbow Foundation
      