
        DUSTIN--Donald R., a resident of Poughkeepsie, passed away on January 9, 2004, at the age of 75. Donald was born on December 20, 1928, to Elsie and George Earl Dustin of Englewood, NJ. Donald grew up in Englewood and had an affinity for music, tennis, chemistry, herpetology and electronics. He graduated from New Hampton School and attended the University of Iowa. He worked as a sound engineer for the fledgling Westminster Records. He joined IBM in 1955 and received awards for his inventions and outstanding work in quality control over 31 years. He held the patent for error correction by retransmission for mainframe computer tape drives. He was married to Virginia Sheeley in 1961; they had two children, Michael and Sarah. He was a loving father who introduced Michael to the scientific method and built dollhouses for Sarah in his shop. Vacationing at the Colony Hotel in Kennebunkport, ME, was a yearly event for the family. He was divorced from Virginia Dustin in 1982 and did not remarry. His interests included music and recording, woodworking, photography, history and politics. He was a passionate Francophile and loyal Democratic party supporter with socialist and revolutionary leanings. An event that changed his life was undergoing cancer surgery in 1985. Shortly after the surgery he retired. He pursued his passion for music with many trips to the New York Philharmonic, the Boston Symphony at Tanglewood and local events at Bard and Vassar Colleges. He also developed a strong interest in astronomy; from his backyard he strove to take the perfect picture of the Andromeda Galaxy using a motorized drive of his own invention. He suffered a massive stroke on December 7, 2003, which led to his death. He is survived by his children Sarah Smith and her husband Paul of Needham, MA, and Michael Dustin and his wife Lynn of New York, NY, their mother Virginia Dustin of New York, NY, four grandchildren, Jennifer, Harrison, and Emily Smith of Needham and Meredith Dustin of New York, and his brother Thomas Dustin, of Huntertown, IN. He was affectionately known as ''Grumpy Pa'' to his grandchildren, a nickname that captured his kind nature sometimes hidden behind a gruff facade. A private memorial service is planned. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to Upstate Films, PO Box 324, Rhinebeck, NY 12572.
      