
        PRYSTOWSKY--Rose, M.D. Advocate for women, psychiatrist, devoted wife and mother. Rose Prystowsky, M.D., passed away on January 7, 2003, as a result of a fire that engulfed her home in Nutley, New Jersey. She was 82 years old. Dr. Prystowsky was born Rose Poliakoff, the youngest of seven children, in Anderson, South Carolina on November 12, 1921. Her father having died when Rose was 3 years old, she was raised by her mother and siblings. She attended the University of South Carolina where she was graduated magna cum laude with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1941, and was the only woman in her class of 48 at the Medical College of South Carolina where she received her MD with honors in 1944. While in her second year of medical school, she married classmate Milton Prystowsky, MD, and their first son was born shortly after graduation. She completed an internship at Kings County Hospital, Brooklyn, in 1945. When her husband was called to military service, Dr. Prystowsky put her residency on-hold. Instead of juggling patients, she found herself caring for the couples two young boys while both working in a research lab and pursuing a Masters of Public Health from the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, a degree she received in 1951. During an era in which a woman pursuing a professional career, a healthy marriage, and a rich family life simultaneously was considered by most an impossible goal, Dr. Prystowsky successfully balanced all three objectives. In 1961, having had three more sons in the intervening years, Dr. Prystowsky returned to her medical career as a resident, and then chief resident, in Psychiatry, at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. After completing her residency and a Fellowship in Child Psychiatry also at Mount Sinai, Dr. Prystowsky established a private practice in Nutley, New Jersey in 1965. She was board-certified in 1970 and became a Fellow in the American Psychiatric Association in 1973. While maintaining her private practice for more than 25 years, Dr. Prystowsky made professional contributions that extended far beyond the walls of her office. Between 1965 and 1985, for instance, she served as a part-time child psychiatrist for the Family Service and Child Guidance Clinic, an organization dedicated to serving the needs of children and families in the communities of the Oranges, Maplewood, and MillburnShort Hills, New Jersey. During her twenty years of service at the clinic, Dr. Prystowsky lectured to lay groups on mental health topics and educated public health nurses on the treatment of patients with emotional problems among many other projects. She was also an active teacher in academic settings. At the New Jersey College of Medicine and Dentistry, she supervised medical students in their child psychiatry elective and helped to train child psychiatry residents one to two days a week for many years. An active member of numerous medical and psychiatric societies throughout her career, Dr. Prystowsky served as president of the New Jersey Psychiatric Association (NJPA) from 1990 to 1991. Previously, as chair of the NJPA's Committee on Women, Dr. Prystowsky had overseen a two-year investigation into the adverse impacts of workplace harassment and discrimination against women, especially against women physicians. Then, in 1990, she moderated a meeting entitled ''Harassment and Discrimination of Women Physicians and Strategic Coping Tech niques.'' A direct outgrowth of the work Dr. Prystowsky had guided, the meeting brought together multiple professional medical organizations to consider the issues. In 1996, the NJPA recognized Dr. Prystowsky with its Golden Merit Award. ''Rose's resume as a teacher, researcher, clinician, leader, and organizer reads for many pages,'' the award's presenter acknowledged before concluding, on a more personal note, that ''everyone in this organization knows Dr. Rose Prystowsky as someone who can be depended upon.'' Dr. Prystowsky retired in the late 1990's as a result of deteriorating health. She is survived by her husband, Milton Prystowsky, MD, her 5 sons, Stephen Prystowsky, MD, of New York City, Eric Prystowsky, MD of Indianapolis, Michael Prystowsky, MD, PhD of Harrison, NY, Barry Prystowsky, MD of West Orange, NJ, and Richard Prystowsky, Ph.D. of Arcata, CA, as well as by 14 grandchildren. Donations in her memory may be made to the Drs. Milton and Rose Medical Student Award at the Foundation, The University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, 65 Bergen Street, Newark, NJ 07107.
        PRYSTOWSKY--Rose, MD. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine community is profoundly shocked and saddenend by the death of Rose Prystowsky, MD, beloved mother of our distinguished colleague, Dr. Michael Prystowsky, university chair of the department of pathology. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire Prystowsky family and our fervent hope for the recovery of Michael's father, Milton. Dominick P. Purpura, MD The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
      