
        D'ARCANGELO--A. Rick, a man who was respected and loved by everyone who knew him, died on Valentine's Day, February 14th, 2004. He was 85. In 1942, Rick graduated cum laude from New York University. After graduation, he distinguished himself as a 2nd Lieutenant, for the 8th Air Force, at headquarters in England. His commanding officer reported ''Mr. D'Arcangelo succeeded in establishing and maintaining the most remarkable and accurate reporting systems ever devised in accounting for Ordnance. This data was of utmost importance to the troops in determining priorities to several active theaters of war.'' In 1950, he founded D'Arcangelo and Co., LLP. He built the organization, specializing in accountancy and consulting, to have offices in Purchase, Poughkeepsie, Millbrook, Rome and Utica, NY. Throughout his distinguished career, to the present, he maintained close personal contact and served his clients with scrupulous honesty, integrity and commitment. He was elected President of the New York State Society of CPAs, Chairman of the State Board for Public Accountancy, and recipient of New York University's Meritorious Service Award as well as many additional professional honors. Rick served on the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Council and the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy. A. Rick D'Arcangelo was born on July 19, 1918 in Iselin, PA, the son of Dominick and Ines (Cerasoli). His survivors include his beloved wife of 58 years, Marjorie (Foster), his devoted children, James (wife Mary Ellen), Inez (husband Alfred Thoben), Martha and John (wife Kathleen), nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Also survived by cherished siblings, Albert (wife Josephine), Stella Coccagnia, Helen Aquillo, Josephine Alberico (husband Richard) and Elizabeth Gratch (husband Leonard). Visitation Monday and Tuesday, February 16-17, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, Coxe & Graziano Funeral Home, 767 East Boston Post Road, Mamaroneck, NY. Funeral Mass Wednesday, February 18, at 11 AM, at St. Gregory the Great Church in Harrison, NY, followed by an interment at Greenwood Union Cemetery in Rye, NY. Contributions in his memory can be made to the New York University Scholarship Fund, c/o NYU Alumni Federation, 25 W. 4th Street, NY, NY 10012.
      