
        NEUMARK--Michael. Who applied his marketing acumen to help bring institutional equity trading into the technological age, died suddenly on February 8 at his home in Pleasantville, NY. He was 60. Mr. Neumark was senior vice president and director of marketing for Investment Technology Group, Inc., the New York-based institutional brokerage and technology developer. He worked for many years at Dean Witter, where he was vice president. Foreseeing that computer technology would reshape the brokerage industry, he then joined Instinet, where he was instrumental in launching The Crossing Network, the nation's first electronic trade crossing system. In 1992 he joined the Investment Technology Group, (ITG), then a start-up subsidiary of Jefferies & Company. ''We were a neophyte company trying to invent a new business category, and he had vast experience in marketing,'' said Raymond L. Killian, retired chairman of ITG. ''By helping us position the company effectively, he made an invaluable contribution to our business.'' ''He was well known and highly respected in the industry,'' said Robert J. Russel, ITG's chief executive officer. ''Everyone knew him as having tremendous integrity and a deep understanding of the nature of equity trading. He did a great deal to shape the evolution of our firm.'' ITG today is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Neumark also served on the Board of Directors of the Arbitrage Fund since the company's inception. He was active in various industry and charitable groups, and was most closely involved in the Children's Cancer Fund. Mr. Neumark graduated from Brooklyn College in 1963, earning his B.S. degree in accounting. He served two years of active duty and six years of inactive duty in the U.S. Naval Air Reserve. He is survived by Jody Neumark, his cherished wife of over 29 years, his loving children, Elisa Kirkpatrick and Brett Neumark, and his caring sister, Myra Bloom. Mike was an avid golfer who loved life, his family and friends. Our lives will not be the same without him. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions in his memory may be made to the Children's Cancer Fund, P.O. Box 658, Millwood, NY 10546. Funeral services will be held at Hawthorne Funeral Home, 21 Stevens Ave, Hawthorne, NY Wednesday 11AM. Interment to follow Kensico Cemetery.
      