
        HARTH--Robert J. On January 30, 2004, at age 47. Executive and artistic director, Carnegie Hall. Beloved son of Sidney & Teresa Harth. Loving brother of Laura Harth Rodriguez and brother-in-law of Francisco Rodriguez, uncle of Alexander Harth Rodriguez, Devoted companion of Stacey Buck and stepfather of Jeffrey Curtis. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Monday, February 2nd, 2-5 and 7-9 pm. Interment private. Plans for Carnegie Hall to honor Robert Harth will be anounced at a later date.
        HARTH--Robert. It is with tremendous sadness that the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts mourn the passing of Robert Harth, Executive Artistic Director of Carnegie Hall. In recent days, we had the pleasure of hosting Robert at Lincoln Center on two occasions. When he was asked if he'd been able to take any time off since coming to Carnegie Hall, he replied, ''I didn't come to Carnegie Hall to rest.'' It was precisely this restlessness, his passionate desire to develop and expand Carnegie Hall's programming and venues, and to invest heavily in education for the next generation of concert goers, that were the unusual marks of accomplishment Lincoln Center so deeply appreciated in him. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and friends. Sincerely, Bruce Crawford, Chairman Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts
        HARTH--Robert J. The New York Pops family mourns the loss of our friend and colleague. An admired and respected leader of Carnegie Hall, Robert charted a visionary course, guided by his passion for great music of every genre. We offer our sympathies to his family and our Carnegie Hall friends. The New York Pops Skitch Henderson, Founder and Music Director Thomas E. McInerney, Chairman Ruth Henderson, President James M. Johnson, Executive Director Musicians, Board of Directors and Staff
        HARTH -- Robert. Former President and CEO of the Aspen Music Festival and School. The Musicians of the Aspen Music Festival and School mourn the sudden passing of Robert Harth, our friend and leader for more than 12 years. Robert was a courageous and brilliant visionary who secured the foundations for the current and future success of our Festival and School. His fire and inspiration will be missed deeply by all. Our condolences to all of Robert's family and friends. The Music Faculty of the Aspen Music Festival and School
        HARTH--Robert. The administration, Board, faculty and staff of the Aspen Music Festival and School, express their deep sorrow at the untimely passing of immediate past President Robert Harth. His passing is a tragic loss for music, and especially for all those who had the privilege and honor to work with this strong and gentle man. There is a vacant feeling today in the heart and soul of our Aspen music family. May all who loved him be comforted. Joan Harris, Chair Don Roth, President David Zinman, Music Director
        HARTH--Robert. WNYC Radio mourns the death of Robert Harth, an extraordinary champion of the arts, whose leadership and passion ensured the success of some of the finest artistic institutions in this country. We will sorely miss his tireless efforts to ensure that music reached a larger audience. WNYC will always treasure his warmth, generosity and friendship. Laura R. Walker President/CEO and the Staff and Board of Trustees of WNYC
        HARTH--Robert J. With profound grief, we mourn the death of our beloved Robert, whose contributions to music, Carnegie Hall, and his countless friends were immeasurable. Isaac's vision for Carnegie was assured in Robert's inspired leadership and our loss is incalculable. Our hearts are with Stacy, Sidney, Terry, Melanie, and all the family. We remember him with love, and will miss him terribly. Vera, Shira, Michael, and David Stern
        HARTH--Robert. ICM Artists mourns the premature death of our colleague, Robert Harth, who combined impeccable musical taste with infectious humor and unfailing honesty. Carnegie Hall and the international world of music have lost a powerful champion, and we have lost a beloved friend. Lee Lamont, Chairman Emeritus David V. Foster, President Jenny Vogel, Exec. V.P. Byron Gustafson, Exec. V.P.
        HARTH--Robert. The Israel Philharmonic Orchestra and American Friends of the IPO mourn the untimely passing of our friend and colleague. We send our hearfelt condolences to his family. Avi Shoshani, IPO Gen'l Secy Ze'ev Dorman, IPO Chairman Zubin Mehta, Itzhak Perlman AFIPO Co-Chairmen Lynn Syms, AFIPO President Suzanne K. Ponsot, AFIPO Exec Dir
        HARTH--Robert. He spread his magic wings over Carnegie Hall and made it shine even more brightly. His was a rare combination of gentility, intelligence, strength, and a passion for music. He was loved by everyone whose life he touched. His death creates an incalculable void in the musical world. Mrs. Isaac Stern
        HARTH--Robert. IMG Artists is profoundly saddened by the untimely death of Robert Harth -- an extraordinary leader, a most generous and thoughtful colleague, and a treasured friend. He will be deeply missed. Barrett Wissman, Chairman Edna Landau, Stephen Wright, Managing Directors
        HARTH--Robert. We will miss his leadership, his kindness, his vision and his frienship. This is a tragic loss for Carnegie Hall, the Carnegie Hall family and the Harth family; and we mourn his untimely passing. Our most sincere sympathies to his loved ones. Rest in peace, my friend. Laura and John Pomerantz
        HARTH--Robert. The CIG mourns the untimely passing of our dear colleague Robert Harth of Carnegie Hall. Cultural Institutions Group Karen Brooks Hopkins, Chair Janet Schneider, Director
      