
        BENENSON--Charles B. Devoted and beloved husband of Jane. Devoted and beloved father of Bruce William, Frederick and Lawrence. Cherished brother of Lawrence and Raymond. Passed away suddenly on February 22 in Palm Beach, FL. He lived to be 91 years old and remained active in his many pursuits to the very end. In addition to his sons and his brothers, he will be greatly missed by his four grandchildren, dedicated office staff, nieces, nephews, cousins and business associates, all of whom benefited from his wonderful qualities and dedication. His business career, spanning a remarkable 70 years, and his passion for the arts brought him in close intimate contact with all aspects of New York City life. His contributions to the arts, education for inner-city children and Jewish philanthropic causes were known to all, as was his personal commitment to Yale University. He was a founding member of the Association for a Better New York, the Realty Foundation, the Lincoln Center Real Estate and Construction Council, the New York Junior Tennis League, the I Have a Dream Program, and the Museum of African Art and numerous other charitable organizations. Widely respected for his wisdom and integrity in the real estate industry, his humor, optimism and vitality enriched the lives of all who came to know him. His sophistication and intellect were an inspiration to all who knew him. His devotion and love were of inestimable value to those closest to him; their loss is irreplaceable. Funeral services at Temple Emanu-El, 65th Street and Fifth Avenue, at 10 am, Friday, February 27. Visiting at Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue, Wednesday, February 25, and Thursday, February 26, 6 pm to 9 pm. In lieu of flowers, send donations to the American Jewish Committee, 165 East 56th Street, New York, NY 10022, Inner-City Scholarship Fund, 1011 1st Avenue, New York, NY 10022, or the New York Junior Tennis League, 24-16 Queens Plaza South, Long Island City, NY 11101.
        BENENSON -- Charlie. With heartfelt sadness, we mourn the passing of Charlie Benenson. Mr. Benenson, the General Manager of Benenson Capital Company, was a cofounder and co-chair of our Real Estate and Construction Council at Lincoln Center, one of the key forces behind our annual Real Estate and Construction Council Gala, and long-time supporter of Lincoln Center. Charlie was one of a kind--a force in the industry, a force in the arts, an avid art collector, and a true gentleman. Apart from his professional pursuits, he was a dedicated philanthropist, a concerned citizen, and an enthusiastic spokesman for his native New York. His numerous gifts to Lincoln Center, to the real estate industry, and to the revitalization of our City, will forever be cherished. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family and friends. Lincoln Center Real Estate and Construction Council
        BENENSON--Charles B. Benenson Capital Partners mourns the loss of our distinguished leader. Charlie, we will miss your intelligence, leadership, wit and sense of humor. We will always remember your extraordinary achievements as a real estate genius, business leader and philanthropist. New Yorkers will miss your vision, charity and dedication to New York. Our deepest sympathy goes to his wife, Jane, his sons, Bill, Fred and Lawrence, his brothers, Lawrence and Raymond, and the entire Benenson family. Your Benenson Capital Partners Family
        BENENSON -- Charles. We mourn the loss of Charles B. Benenson. A giant in the industry, he had a brilliant instinct for business, a great heart for philanthropy, and an unerring eye for art. His partnership with the Weiler Arnow families spanned more than half a century, and we benefited through the generations from his thoughtful counsel, his integrity and his generosity. A leader in the community and a great friend to us all, we mourn his loss and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Jane and his family. Weiler Arnow Families
        BENENSON--Charles. It is with great sadness that we at Fisher Brothers mourn the passing of a giant in our industry, Charlie Benenson. Beside being a friend, we worked closely with him in his avid support of Lincoln Center, and above all admired him for his grace, intelligence, and zest for life. His support for and love of New York was boundless, and we are all the better for his efforts. Our deepest condolences to his family. Arnold Fisher, Richard L. Fisher, Ken Fisher, Steven Fisher, Winston C. Fisher
        BENENSON--Charles B. His friends for many years at Rose Associates, Inc. note with sadness the passing of our beloved and respected colleague, Charles B. Benenson. Three generations of Roses have admiringly worked alongside this outstanding New Yorker and he will be sadly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his bereaved family. Daniel Rose, Chairman Elihu Rose, Vice Chairman Adam R. Rose, President Amy Rose, Executive Vice President
        BENENSON--Charles B. Charlie, you were my mentor for 25 years. I will always remember the valuable lessons you taught me about the real estate business. I have taken your insights in business and charity and made them a part of my life. Working for you has brought me both personal & professional success. I will miss you. Stephanie and I offer our heartfelt condolences to Jane, Bill, Fred, Lawrence, his brothers, Lawrence and Raymond, and the entire Benenson family. Richard & Stephanie Kessler
        BENENSON--Charles B. Dear Charlie, I will miss our lunches, our telephone calls, our deal stories, our art stories, our political stories, our common charitable interests, our exchanging favorite books, your advice, your ''admiration'', your inspiration. I will miss you so very, very much. And to Jane, Lawrence and the entire Benenson family, I send my deepest condolences. Francis Greenburger, Chairman Time Equities, Inc.
        BENENSON--Charles B. The entire staff of Cardinal Capital Partners express our deepest sorrow to Lawrence and the entire Benenson family for the loss of Charlie. He was instrumental in the advancement of our firm and we recognize we will never have another partner like Charlie. His strict honesty and character will be our greatest remembrance and we are extremely blessed to have had him as our partner and friend.
        BENENSON--Charles B. I mourn the loss of Charles Benenson, my friend and mentor of 43 years. His extraordinary wisdom and philanthropy endeavors will always be remembered and deeply missed by all who knew him. My sincerest condolences are extended to Lawrence and the entire Benenson family. Robert I. Shapiro, City Center Real Estate, Inc.
        BENENSON -- Charles B. Here's to the blessed memory of our dear friend, Charlie--a quiet philanthropist and humanitarian, an esteemed industry colleague, an idealist, yet a realist, a lover of the arts, and a lover of life and its light side--truly a role model for all of us. Eugene M. Grant & Co., LLC Eugene M. Grant Richard E. Kobrin
        BENENSON--Charles B. With profound sadness, his friends at the Harlem Educational Activities Fund note the passing of Charles B. Benenson, one of our oldest, most generous and most loyal supporters. In his memory we are creating the Benenson College Fellowship. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Danielle Moss Lee, President
        BENENSON--Charles B. Dear cousin and great friend. I'll miss you very much and am deeply saddened by your sudden passing. Now you've left me in grief. My sincere condolences to Jane and the boys. To leave us so quickly is shocking. The whole Benenson family grieves and we will miss you very much indeed. Edward H. Benenson
        BENENSON--Charles B. The members and staff of Goldfarb & Fleece express our deep sorrow and condolences to the entire Benenson family for the passing of Charlie. His integrity, business savvy and understated generosity was an inspiration to us all. Charlie was a great man and we are all blessed to have had him as our client and friend.
        BENENSON--Charles B. Trinity School notes with sorrow the passing of Charles B. Benenson, a trustee of the school from 1982 until 1988. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire Benenson family, especially his son Lawrence, Trinity class of 1985.
        BENENSON--Charles. Charlie, you will be with us always. Our heartfelt sympathy to Jane, sons Billy, Fred and Lawrence, brothers Lawrence and Raymond and the entire Benenson Family Jim and Maureen
        BENENSON--Charles B. We are saddened by the loss of an extraordinary, generous and kind man. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the Benenson family. The Lax Family
      