
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The Board of Trustees, Scientific Advisory Council and Staff of the Cancer Research Institute wish to express our grief over the passing of one of the Institute's most beloved friends and generous benefactors. Mr. Kellen, along with his wife Anna - Maria, disti guished himself early on as an ardent supporter of cancer immunology and the Institute's mission to explore and develop this field of research. Over more than four decades of dedication, Mr. Kellen earned our most profound gratitude, respect and admiration. A champion of ours and so many other good causes, his boundless generosity raised the bar for philanthropic giving, inspiring others not only to give, but also to give more. The legacy of his many good works, which touched the lives of so many people, will live on long into the future. Our love and condolences go to his wife AnnaMaria, his children Marina and Michael, and his other bereaved family members. Ann W. Jackson, Chairman, Board of Trustees Lloyd J. Old, M.D., Dir., Scientific Advisory Council Jill O'Donnell-Tormey, Ph.D., Executive Director
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Stephen Kellen, a devoted benefactor and friend. With his refined sensibilities as a collector, and with a keen understanding of the Metropolitan's evolving needs, he contributed generously in many areas--including support of a special exhibition endowment fund for German art that made possible the Fall 2001 exhibition ''Caspar David Friedrich: Moonwatchers,'' and ongoing donations for acquisitions of works of art to the collections of drawings and prints, European sculpture and decorative arts, modern art, and Greek and Roman art. He and his wife, Anna - Maria, have been members of the Metropolitan Museum for more than 50 years. We will miss him greatly, and we extend to Anna-Maria and his entire family our deep condolences. Philippe de Montebello, Director
        KELLEN--Stephen M. He was so much more than a client. He was a mentor who challenged us to excellence, inspiring us with his marvelous intellect and spirit. We always felt that we were working with him, not simply for him. At 90, he never lost the zest to learn. ''I just learned something'', a phrase he so often used, was, for us, the finest compliment. His presence will always be felt through his wonderful family and by the generous work of the Anna-Maria and Stephen M. Kellen Foundation, whose wide-ranging gifts have so enriched the life of our great city. We will miss him. The Partners of Joel E. Sammet & Company
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The Board of Directors and staff of Third Street Music School Settlement are deeply saddened by the death of Stephen M. Kellen, beloved husband of our Chairman, AnnaMaria Kellen. His wisdom, caring and generosity benefited us all and made a profound difference in the lives of thousands of Third Street children and their families. With Anna-Maria, he has made New York City a more vibrant place to live. We will miss him greatly and offer our love and heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Gerald D. Cohen, President Barbara E. Field, Exec. Dir.
        KELLEN--Stephen. The Board and staff of The Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum mourn the passing of Stephen Kellen, a longtime Trustee and friend of the Museum. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family.
      