
        GUTERMAN--Abraham S. 91, died February 11. Beloved husband of the late Irene Guterman, devoted father of the late Florrie Nadelman. Survived by sister Hazel Schwab, nieces Phyllis Barnett, Karen Sommer, Amy Schwab and Lori Schwab; nephews Ted Sommer and Larry Guterman; also many grand nieces and grand nephews. Services on Friday 10AM at Mamaroneck Jewish Center. For directions: 914-698-2960.
        GUTERMAN--Abraham S., Esq. The entire Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing of one of its most illustrious alumni, a distinguished tax, trusts and estates attorney who was erudite in law, English literature, Jewish scholarship and Egyptology. The first Yeshiva College alumnus to attend Harvard Law School, he edited the Harvard Law Journal, and published many articles in the Law Journals of Columbia University and University of Pennsylvania among others. He advanced the cause of Yeshiva University in his own community, and the Westchester Jewish Center where he arranged annual fundraising efforts for many years. He set a high standard of generosity which influenced his friends to emulate his example. A YU Benefactor with his beloved wife, Irene, he established the Abraham S. and Irene Guterman Chair in English Literature at Yeshiva College, and established The Rabbi Henry H. Guterman Chair in Talmud at the Mazer Yeshiva Program in memory of his father. He was a member of the Yeshiva University Board of Trustees for many years, a founding member of The Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law Board of Directors and a Cardozo Fellow. He will be sorely missed by the entire Yeshiva University family. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his sister, Hazel Schwab, his sister-in-law, Betty Guterman, and his niece and nephew, Phyllis and Irving Barnett. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Richard M. Joel, President Yeshiva University Norman Lamm, Chancellor Yeshiva University Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Yeshiva University Board of Trustees Earle I. Mack, Chairman Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law Joshua L. Muss, Chairman Yeshiva College Board of Directors
        GUTERMAN -- Abraham S. The attorneys and staff of Loeb & Loeb, LLP mourn with profound sadness the loss of Abraham Guterman. Abe was formerly a name partner with the firm of Hess, Segall, Guterman, Pelz, Steiner & Bavorick, which he joined in 1936 and which merged with Loeb & Loeb in 1986. A graduate of Yeshiva University and Harvard Law School, Abe was an authority on tax law. He was a member of the faculty of New York University Institute on Federal Taxation and the author of numerous articles on taxation for Harvard Law Review, Columbia Law Review and other leading periodicals. He served on the boards of trustees of Yeshiva University, Cardozo Law School, and B'nai Brith, and on the boards of many businesses and private foundations. Abe made a huge contribution to our firm and to the wider community. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family.
        GUTERMAN--Abraham. The Board and staff of the American Friends and of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem, are deeply saddened by the death of Abe Guterman. He was a generous and longtime supporter of our Ancient Art Department. He will be sorely missed. Jonathan Rosen, Treasurer Daphna Ben Tor, Egyptian Art Curator, IMJ
        GUTERMAN--Abe. It is with profound sorrow that we record the passing of our beloved member and past president, Abe Guterman. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to all the members of his family and friends. Board of Governors, Hampshire Country Club
      