
        FERGUSON--Keith Arthur, age 38, Sergeant, NYPD, member of the elite Hercules Anti-terrorism squad of the Emergency Service Unit, died on Saturday, January 31st after collapsing suddenly in Soho while assisting other officers in apprehending a suspect after a short foot chase. Ferguson was a 17 year veteran of the NYPD, who joined the force in 1987, and became a sergeant in 1997 and worked in various precincts throughout the department over the years. At the time of his death, he was a member of Unit 7 of the Emergency Service Unit based in the 75th Precinct in East New York. Following the Bosnian conflict, Ferguson was part of a team of criminal justice experts sent to Bosnia by the U.S. government to assist the Bosnians in establishing a civilian police force. His love of travel and interest in diverse cultures made him an excellent choice for the Bosnian assignment. Sergeant Ferguson was a true New Yorker. He loved the city and felt very proud of his work as a New York City police officer. He had great energy, and was a true police officer. He loved his family and had many friends whom he managed to incorporate into his life. His aunts, Joy Cunningham, Fern Cunningham and Sheila Hazel who were very close to Sergeant Ferguson said ''Keith was our son too.'' His fellow officers from the Emergency Service Unit, Tim Murphy and Ronald Racioppi said ''Keith was very well liked; the police department and all of us have suffered a great loss. The guys are really going to miss him.'' His father Victor Ferguson, a retired NYPD police officer said, ''I am very proud of my son. He died doing what he loved.'' Sergeant Ferguson is survived also by his mother Sonia Cunningham, his brother Laird Ferguson, his grandmother Kathleen Ferguson, aunts, uncles, cousins, and many many friends. He will be sorely missed. Friends may call at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave, NYC, 10010; 212-475-2024 on Wednesday, February 4th from 25 and 7-9pm. Mass of Christian burial at the Roman Catholic Church of St. Andrews, 20 Cardinal Hayes Place. (Duane and Centre Street) on Thursday, February 5th at 10am. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the University of Texas Brownsville, c/o Barry T. Horn, Director of Development, 80 Fort Brown, Building 23, Brownsville, TX 78520, the Keith A. Ferguson Scholarship Fund for Criminal Justice.
      