
        KELLEN--Stephen M. died at Lenox Hill Hospital on February 11, 2004 in New York City. He is survived by his wife Anna-Maria Kellen, his daughter Marina French, his son Michael M. Kellen, his granddaughters Annabelle Garrett and Caroline Kellen, his grandsons Andrew Gundlach and Christopher Kellen, and one great grandchild. The funeral service will be private and the interment will be in Lausanne, Switzerland. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions to the American Academy in Berlin, 14 E 60th St, NY, NY 10021, The Cancer Research Institute, 681 Fifth Ave, NY, NY 10022, The Third Street Music School Settlement, 235 E. 11th St, NY, NY 10003 or the InterFaith Center of New York, 40 E 30th St, NY, NY 10016.
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn with immense sadness the death of our friend and colleague, Stephen Kellen. Stephen, a Trustee of Carnegie Hall since 1981, was a remarkable combination of tradition and flexibility: his mind spanned continents and issues with ease, and his devotion to and support of great culture knew no bounds. He adored Carnegie Hall, and he and his beloved Anna-Maria co-Chaired Carnegie Hall's Opening Night in the tumultuous days after September 11, 2001, with the grace and the resolve to stand with music and New York City. In the historic partnership between Carnegie Hall and the Berlin Philharmonic, Stephen was a unique bridge and patron. He will be deeply missed, and our condolences go to AnnaMaria, Michael and Marina, and to the extended family. Sanford I. Weill, Chairman of the Board
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Interfaith Center of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Stephen M. Kellen. A devoted supporter and Charter Board Member of The Interfaith Center since its beginning in 1997, Stephen perceived the critical need for both practical collaboration and sincere respect among the leaders and members of the many diverse religious communities of our city. His immense generosity and delightful humor were invaluable to our work and spirit. Our love to his wife, Anna Maria, his children, Marina and Michael, his grandchildren and his great - grandchildren, of whom he was so proud. The Very Reverend James Parks Morton Founder and President Mary Jane Brock Chair, Board of Directors The Interfaith Center of NY
        KELLEN--Stephen M. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of Thirteen/WNET, we wish to express our most profound sorrow at the passing of Stephen M. Kellen, a longtime member of our board and an individual who truly embodied the spirit of our great city. An impassioned advocate for the arts and education in our community, he recently created a special program fund at Thirteen that will bring marvelous arts and culture programming to people around the world. Our thoughts are with his wife, Anna-Maria, and his family. We join them in mourning the loss of a wonderful friend. Steven Rattner, Chairman William F. Baker, President
        KELLEN--Stephen M. He was so much more than a client. He was a mentor who challenged us to excellence, inspiring us with his marvelous intellect and spirit. We always felt that we were working with him, not simply for him. At 90, he never lost the zest to learn. ''I just learned something'', a phrase he so often used, was, for us, the finest compliment. His presence will always be felt through his wonderful family and by the generous work of the Anna-Maria and Stephen M. Kellen Foundation, whose wide-ranging gifts have so enriched the life of our great city. We will miss him. The Partners of Joel E. Sammet & Company
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The New York Philharmonic mourns with deep sadness the loss of our dear friend, Stephen M. Kellen, who supported the orchestra so generously for so many years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, AnnaMaria, his daughter and sonin-law, Marina and John French, his son and daughterin-law, Michael and Denise Kellen, and their families. Lorin Maazel, Music Director Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Zarin Mehta, Exec. Director
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The Board of Trustees, residents, alumni and staff of International House mourn the loss of our friend and benefactor, Stephen M. Kellen, and extend our deepest condolences to his beloved wife, AnnaMaria and their family. Paul A. Volcker, Chairman Donald L. Cuneo, President
      