
        KAPLAN--Jack. Died January 28, 2004 in Delray Beach, FL, after a four-year battle with cancer. Kaplan, 82, was the quintessential ''Deli Man,'' creating Kaplan's at the Delmonico Delicatessen-Restaurant on 59th Street in New York, Jack Kaplan's on West 47th Street, and Kaplan's Olde New York on Broad Street in the late 1970s and early 1980s. An instant hit with jaded New Yorkers, international visitors, and celebrities alike, Kaplan's became one of the city's top delis in its heyday, serving up generous portions of corned beef, pastrami and Jack Kaplan's own gregarious, boisterous humor, as he greeted customers in his trademark red suspenders. Born in Brooklyn in 1921, Kaplan graduated from Townsend Harris High School in 1937, and attended City College with dreams of teaching mathematics, before joining the Army Air Force in 1942. A Purple Heart veteran of World War II, Kaplan was a 2nd Lieutenant in the Eighth Air Force, navigating B24s out of Wendling, England. On his 18th mission, he was shot down over Germany during the ''Maximum Effort'' Gotha raid on February 24, 1944, and served out the remainder of the war as a POW at Stalag Luft I in Barth, Germany. After returning to the U.S. Kaplan met his future wife Lee and they married in 1947, he formed what would become a 30-year business partnership with his brother Howard Kaplan and brother-in-law Aaron Stein, transforming candy stores into bustling luncheonettes in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx. They opened restaurants at the Barbizon Hotel for Women at 63rd Street and Lexington Avenue in New York from 1964 to 1976. Kaplan went solo with the Kaplan's Delicatessen-Restaurants, which he launched with his wife Lee in 1977. In his retirement, mourned by deli - lovers throughout the world, Kaplan volunteered in the New York City Public Schools, the Beth Israel Hospice Program, and the Temple Emanu-El lunch program for the homeless. Kaplan is survived by his wife Lee Kaplan; daughters Marcy Kaplan of Downers Grove, IL; Debby Kaplan (Francis Keenan) of New York; Cindy Kaplan Rooney (Stephen P. Rooney) of Montclair, NJ; grandson Stephen Charles Kaplan Rooney; granddaughters Ava Pat Kaplan Rooney and Nellie Bowe Kaplan Keenan; sister Felice Stein and brother Howard Kaplan, both of New York. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, February 1, at 11 a.m. at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. Contributions may be made to the Mighty Eighth Air Force Museum in Savannah, GA, or the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation in New York.
      