
        NAIMOLI--John C. 87, of Amityville, NY, on February 2, 2004. Born May 4, 1917, in New York City to Theodore Naimoli and Margaret Cuomo. He was a graduate of Xavier High School in New York City and Manhattan College. After serving in the U.S. Army from 1942 to 1944, he was an art director for advertising agencies in New York City, eventually opening up his own art studio in Manhattan. He was a wildlife artist and one of the most extraordinary fishermen ever. He has fished all over the world, most notably founding a river in Newfoundland in the name of the Queen of England. As past President of the Sunrise Fish & Game Association in Amityville, NY, and as a member of the Theodore Gordon Flyfisher's Association and the Squaw Island Fishing Club, he lobbied and fought for the preservation of the environment, especially the Oceans. He maintained homes in Sebastian, FL, and Playa de Nosara on the Pacific coast of Costa Rica, where he not only fished, but helped out the local townspeople. As a part owner and Vice President of Scheidl Manufacturing and Linden Industries in Long Island, NY, he was responsible for the invention of new technology in thermo plastics. His radar feedome was on Apollo 13. He has received numerous awards in his field, among those cited were from Grumman Aircraft in Long Island, NY. John was a member of the Unqua Corinthian Yacht Club in Amityville, NY, and was a member of the Rotary Club, serving on the Special Committees for Foreign Exchange Students and Aid to Hospitals in Africa. John is survived by his wife Mary Manning Naimoli and daughters Christine Fanelli and her husband Patrick, Kate Weiman, his son Steven Naimoli and his wife Kim; his grandchildren Andrew, Dina, Eben, Michael and Peter; greatgrandchildren Ethan, Jack, Abby and his sister Grace Persico. A Celebration of Life service was held on February 5, 2004, at the Powell Funeral Home in Amityville, NY, with a Mass held at St. Martin of Tours Church in Amityville. Deacon James O'Neill S.F.O., of St. Anthony's Church in Oceanside, NY, assisted and delivered the Homily for his uncle. Cremation was private. Interment will be in the Urn Garden at the Amityville Cemetery in Amityville, NY. A tribute to Mr. Naimoli will be held in Florida, scheduled for April, 2004. Donations may be made to the American Parkinson's Disease Association, 50 Route 25A, Smithtown, NY 11787.
      