
        STRAUS--Philip A. Sr. Of Mamaroneck, NY died on February 4, 2004 at the age of 88. Born in New York City in 1915 to Albert and Hilda Fisher Straus, Mr. Straus was a graduate of Fieldston High School and Harvard University, majoring in Economics. After serving in Italy with the US Army Air Force in WW II, he joined the firm of Neuberger & Berman where he became a Senior Partner and Investment Manager, and excelled for more than 50 years until retiring at the age of 84. An extraordinary businessman, he was a world traveler, adventurer, and lover of the arts, history, politics, skiing, tennis, and sailing. A lifelong philanthropist, he was an ardent supporter of early childhood education, a rational defense policy, and the visual arts. He was the loving husband of Lynn (Gross) for 54 years, the devoted father of Philip A. Jr. (Margaret Harris), Donald (Carol Goss) and Katherine, cherished grandfather of Miriam, Peter, Elizabeth, and Sarah as well as a dear uncle of Jane Weinberg Butcher. His sister Bella Weinberg predeceased him. The family is receiving visitors Friday evening and Saturday and Sunday afternoons (Feb. 6-8). A memorial service is scheduled for 2PM on February 29 at the Ethical Culture Society of Westchester, 7 Saxon Wood Rd., White Plains, NY., 914 948-1120, www.ethicalsocietywestches ter.org/events.htm. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the Bank Street College of Education, 610 W. 112th St., NY, NY 10025 or the Center for Defense Information, 1779 Mass. Ave NW, Washington DC 20036.
        STRAUS--Philip. With deepest sorrow Neuberger Berman marks the passing of our retired partner Philip Straus. He embodied the spirit of integrity in the pursuit of excellence that is the foundation of our firm's culture. He was one of our first partners, joining Roy Neuberger in 1947, and the two men remained deepest friends. For many years, he was our leading investment manager for client accounts. He was not only a shrewd investor but also an insightful businessman, and his leadership enabled us to grow as a firm and to thrive in changing times. Most of all, his ethics, his humanity, his philanthropic generosity, and his willingness to teach are what enabled our firm's success. We will miss him, as will his many clients. Our condolences go out to his wife Lynn and his family, and all the people who were touched by his achievements. The employess of Neuberger Berman
        STRAUS--Philip. Members of the Purchase College community, SUNY and the Board of Directors of the Friends of the Neuberger Museum of Art, mourn the passing of Friends Board member Philip Straus, a true philanthropist and supporter of the visual arts and education. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Lynn and the the entire Straus family. Thomas J. Schwarz, Pres., Purchase College Lucinda H. Gedeon, Dir., Neuberger Museum of Art Emily S. Tait, Chair, Board of the Friends, Neuberger Museum of Art
        STRAUS--Philip. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Philip Straus, a cherished friend who earned enormous respect for his commitment to the New York Jewish community and humanitariancauses. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Lynn, and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        STRAUS--Philip. ZERO TO THREE, expresses profound sorrow on the passing of a true champion of babies and toddlers. Phil, along with his beloved wife Lynn, have been passionate supporters of our country's youngest citizens through their unwavering advocacy and exceptional generosity. Lynn and the entire family have our deepest sympathies. The Board and Staff of ZERO TO THREE
        STRAUS--Philip A. Thank you for the precious gift of your constant friendship, humor, and delight in art and life. We will think of you always. Our love to Lynn and the children. Liz Prelinger, Steve Messner, Benjy, and Fred
      