
        BROWN--Stefanie Lynn. Age 39. Beloved wife of David Brown. Adored mother of Emma Jo and Nikki Leigh. Cherished daughter of Diane Steiner and Paul Bernstein. Sister of David Bernstein. Daughter-in-law of Miriam Brown and Matt Brown. Stefanie's radiance, warmth, generosity and lust for life will live on in the hearts and memories of her family and many friends. She was beautiful and brave and benevolent. Contributions may be made to The Brain Tumor Center at Duke University, C/O Henry Friedman, M.D., Box 3624, Durham, N.C. 27710. Services at The Riverside, 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave, February 1, 2004, at 10 AM.
        BROWN--Stefanie L. I was graced having such a wonderful daughter who touched the lives of so many friends, family and business associates. I wish every father could enjoy his daughter asmuch as I did. She leaves us much too early. Donations in her name would be appreciated to Seeds of Peace, 370 Lexington Ave, NY NY 10017. Your Loving Daddy
        BROWN--Stefanie. Life is a gift. Stefanie was the essence of that gift. She was energy, joy, love and passion. That is her great legacy to all of us. She will remain in our hearts and thoughts. To Diane and Buddy, Paul and Peggy, David and Kim, Caroline, Jacqueline and Rebecca, David, her beloved husband, Nikki and Emma, we send our love and condolences. Nancy and Joel Portnoy Nina and Jonathan Mattana Peter and Barbara Delman
        BROWN--Stefanie (nee Bernstein). Oh, yes, we had such fun together. From your wild teen years through your magical transformation into a responsible wife and mother, I've been in awe of your energy, boundless love and extraordinary compassion. Remembering your smile is contagious; now, I'm smiling through tears for all your family and friends. Your adoring ''stepmonster'' Carol Tambor
        BROWN--Stefanie. We send our heartfelt condolences to our dear partner, Diane Steiner, on the loss of her beloved daughter Stephanie. We know she will always remain the light in your heart. Our deepest sympathy to her husband Buddy, son-in-law David Brown, and granddaughters Emma and Nikki. The partners, associates and staff at Sheresky, Aronson & Mayefsky, LLP.
        BROWN -- Stefanie. Thank you for touching our lives as only you could have. Your amazing soul and energy will always be with us. We will always remember your wit, your optimism and your laugh. You had it all. Thank you for sharing that with us. Your ''Joie de Vivre'' was contagious and it will endure. We will miss you, our friend and cousin. With all our love, Leslie, Devin and Gary
        BROWN--Stefanie (nee Bernstein). The Board of Directors and the staff of Seeds of Peace express our heartfelt grief for our fellow Board member, Paul Bernstein, on the loss of his beloved daughter. Our hearts go out to you and your family.
        BROWN--Stefanie L. There is no earthly measure that can sum up the gift you have been to our lives. You will always be part of us. Gail, Frank and Whitney
        BROWN--Stefanie L. Dearest Stef, thank you for your caring, kindness, jokes, laughter and love. Sleep well, our friend. Peg and Kristina
      