
        STRAUS--Philip A. Sr. Of Mamaroneck, NY died on February 4, 2004 at the age of 88. Born in New York City in 1915 to Albert and Hilda Fisher Straus, Mr. Straus was a graduate of Fieldston High School and Harvard University, majoring in Economics. After serving in Italy with the US Army Air Force in WW II, he joined the firm of Neuberger & Berman where he became a Senior Partner and Investment Manager, and excelled for more than 50 years until retiring at the age of 84. An extraordinary businessman, he was a world traveler, adventurer, and lover of the arts, history, politics, skiing, tennis, and sailing. A lifelong philanthropist, he was an ardent supporter of early childhood education, a rational defense policy, and the visual arts. He was the loving husband of Lynn (Gross) for 54 years, the devoted father of Philip A. Jr. (Margaret Harris), Donald (Carol Goss) and Katherine, cherished grandfather of Miriam, Peter, Elizabeth, and Sarah as well as a dear uncle of Jane Weinberg Butcher. His sister Bella Weinberg predeceased him. The family is receiving visitors Friday evening and Saturday and Sunday afternoons (Feb. 6-8). A memorial service is tentatively scheduled for 2PM on February 29 at the Ethical Culture Society of Westchester, 7 Saxon Wood Rd., White Plains, NY. To confirm the date and time, please call 914 948-1120 or check www.ethicalsocie tywestchester.org/ events.htm. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the Bank Street College of Education, 610 W. 112th St., NY, NY 10025 or the Center for Defense Information, 1779 Mass. Ave NW, Washington DC 20036.
        STRAUS -- Philip A. The Trustees, administration, faculty, staff, students and alumni of Bank Street College of Education mourn the passing of Philip A. Straus. Phil began his involvement with Bank Street in 1958, eventually joining the Board of Trustees, where he served until 1986 when he was elected to serve as a Life Trustee, the Board's highest honor. He has been a spirited advocate and champion for Bank Street and the students we serve on our campus and beyond. Together with his wife Lynn, a Bank Street alumna, Phil helped Bank Street to meet many of its ambitious goals and to improve education for all children. We are extremely fortunate to have benefitted from his leadership, wise counsel and friendship over the past four decades. ''He was a man, take him for all in all, I shall not look upon his like again.'' The entire Bank Street Community joins together in offering condolences to Lynn, his beloved wife, and the entire Straus family. Augusta Souza Kappner, President Sue Kaplan, Chair, Board of Trustees
        STRAUS--Philip. With deepest sorrow Neuberger Berman marks the passing of our retired partner Philip Straus. He embodied the spirit of integrity in the pursuit of excellence that is the foundation of our firm's culture. He was one of our first partners, joining Roy Neuberger in 1947, and the two men remained deepest friends. For many years, he was our leading investment manager for client accounts. He was not only a shrewd investor but also an insightful businessman, and his leadership enabled us to grow as a firm and to thrive in changing times. Most of all, his ethics, his humanity, his philanthropic generosity, and his willingness to teach are what enabled our firm's success. We will miss him, as will his many clients. Our condolences go out to his wife Lynn and his family, and all the people who were touched by his achievements. The employess of Neuberger Berman
        STRAUS--Philip. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with great sorrow the death of Philip Straus, an ardent and generous supporter of JBFCS and its Institute for Infants, Children & Families. Phil and his wife Lynn have been true champions for young, underserved children, working over decades to support meaningful and effective services. Phil's compassion for children has left a legacy that will have an impact for generations to come. Our condolences to Lynn and the entire family. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive VP and CEO Rebecca Shahmoon Shanok, MSW, Ph.D., Director, Institute for Infants, Children & Families
        STRAUS--Philip A. Your life was guided by sound judgment and the pursuit of excellence. You were an inspiring friend and mentor and will remain forever in our hearts. Donna and Marvin Schwartz
      