
        MAYER--Dr. Egon, on January 30, at the age of 59. Beloved husband of Marcia Kramer Mayer. Devoted father of Daphne Mayer, Rena Kramer Fox and Danielle Kramer. Loving son of Hedy and the late Eugene Mayer. Dear brother of George. Cherished grandfather of Natalie and Grace. Leading sociologist of American Jewry. His career was distinguished by scholarship infused with a passionate concern about subject matter. Services Sunday, 12:00 noon, at the Reconstructionist Synagogue of the North Shore, 1001 Plandome Road, Manhasset, NY. Contributions may be made to Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Association, Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724.
        MAYER--Egon. The Center for Cultural Judaism and the Posen Foundation grieve the death of our esteemed colleague and friend, Professor Egon Mayer. He was unwavering in his love of Jewish peoplehood and in his dedication to the idea of a more inclusive Jewish community. A leading demographer of the Jewish population, his intelligence and insight brought greater understanding to the changing population, recently documented in two important studies he directed, The American Religious Identity Survey (ARIS) and The American Jewish Identity Survey (AJIS), the first studies in North America to examine secularity as well as religiosity. We were inspired by his commitment to complete the analysis of his most recent study on the perspectives of Jewish parents into their children's education, which we will be proud to publish in his memory. Through his life and especially in the face of his illness he embraced humor, lived with dignity and displayed remarkable courage. It was an honor to work closely with him and to be his friend. We extend our deepest condolences to Marcia and the Mayer family.
        MAYER--Prof. Egon. Brooklyn College mourns the passing of Egon Mayer, distinguished graduate and chairman of the Department of Sociology. He received his B.A. from the College in 1967 and joined the faculty in 1970. His series of studies on the American Jewish experience will stand for years to come as a model of scholarship. Dr. Mayer brought stability and vigor to his role as chairman and served as a fond mentor to many of his colleagues. His dedication to Brooklyn College for the last 24 years was greatly appreciated by the entire community. Brooklyn College extends its heartfelt condolences to his family. Christoph M. Kimmich, President
      