
        HADDEN--Sarah R., 82, died peacefully surrounded by family and her dear friend on Monday, February 23, 2004 in Wellington, FL. Sally was a strong presence in the lives of all who knew her; there was almost no adversity she was unable to surmount. She inspired and engaged and entertained us. Born in Keene, NH in 1921, she grew up in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, and graduated from the Beaver Country Day School. In 1942 in the midst of WW II she married her husband of 54 years, Hamilton Hadden, Jr. They settled in Westbury (and later Brookville), NY. Sally was a devoted wife and mother, whose family danced mostly to her tune amidst numerous dogs and horses. She was a longstanding member of the Colony Club of New York. She loved and fortified her homestead in Manchester, VT. In 1996, at the age of 75, she and her husband moved to Duncaster in Bloomfield, CT, where she found an inviting community in which to knit supportive and stimulating friendships. She was a former President of Planned Parenthood of Nassau County, NY, and an Endowment Trustee of the Greater Hartford Association for Retarded Citizens (HARC) in CT. She passionately embraced her causes and those of her family. She was predeceased by her husband, Hamilton, and grandson, Sam Hadden; and survived by her children and children-in-law, Kitty and Harry Lee, Susie and David Lawrence, Ham and Hilary Hadden, and David and Sara Hadden; as well as her grandchildren, and their spouses, all of whom delighted her: Johnny and Ashley Lee, Bob Lee, Claire Lee, John and Tara Lawrence, Katie Lawrence and Matt Sawatzky, Sarah Lawrence, Ham and Patricia Hadden, Alice Hadden, Lee Hadden, Jamie Hadden and Liza Hadden. A service of celebration will be held on Saturday, February 28 at 12:30 PM in the meeting hall at Duncaster, 40 Loeffler Road, Bloomfield, Connecticut. Contributions in her honor may be made to HARC (for the Samuel Taylor Hadden Endowment Fund), 900 Asylum Avenue, Hartford, CT 06105; the Duncaster Foundation, 40 Loeffler Road, Bloomfield, CT 06002; or Planned Parenthood of Nassau County, 540 Fulton Ave., Hempstead, New York 11550.
      