
        HARVEY--Robert W. Former member of the Board of Directors and Executive Vice President of the Prudential Insurance Company, responsible for all sales activities, group insurance and group annuities, and planning and development, died on Monday, at a rehabilitation facility in Jupiter, FL. He was 84. A 1940 graduate of Harvard University, he began his career as an actuary with the Prudential where he met his wife to be, Rita Emmett. During WWII he served for four years in the US Army Air Corps as a navigator, rising to captain. After returning to the Prudential, in the words of former president Orville Beal, ''Bob Harvey had moved out of the Actuarial Department into Administration. Then I chose him to succeed me as head of sales operations for Prudential. That's quite unusual--to have an actuary as head of sales-but he was that kind of man-highly respected by everybody.'' Then came ''a very heavy blow.'' Near the top of the company, Harvey's career ended in 1967 following a tragic automobile accident. Beyond his activities in the insurance business, he served as Chairman, Scholarship Committee of Harvard; President, Health and Hospital Council of Newark and vicinity; and member, Boards of Directors, Life Office Management Association, Welfare Federation of Newark, and United Community Corporation (Newark). As part of his civic activities, Mr. Harvey worked closely with the Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. on what he found to be ''one of the most stimulating and potentially rewarding fields of all,'' assisting urban youth in Newark. A man of admirable strength and perseverance, in the accident's aftermath he maintained his uncanny intelligence and wit along with love and care for his family. Besides his wife he is survied by his daughter and son-inlaw, Judy and John McCormack, and son-in-law Joseph McNamara, all of New Jersey, five grandchildren, brother-in-law and sister-inlaw Robert and Lynn Emmett, and two nephews. He was predeceased by his daughter Susan McNamara and grandson John McCormack III.
      