
        MOSES--Carol Whitehill. Age 71, died at home in McLean, Virginia, on February 19, of cancer. After finishing public school in Scarsdale, New York, where she was born, she attended Vassar College, graduating in 1954 with a degree in child development, which became her lifelong career. Following graduation, she first taught at the Bank Street School in New York City. Following her marriage in 1955, she moved to Washington where she taught at Beauvoir, the National Cathedral Elementary School, and later at the Holton Arms Lower School and at its then Junior College where she inaugurated its courses in early childhood development. For over 20 years she taught learning disabled children at The Potomac School in McLean, Virginia, where she was credited with enabling young children to conquer their disabilities. Many of her students went on to distinguished academic careers. In addition to her work in child development, she was a past president of Planned Parenthood of Metropolitan Washington and a founder of the Ovarian Cancer National Alliance, the first such group to focus on early diagnosis of ovarian cancer, saving countless lives. She was an early member of the Women's Board of Children's Hospital and of the Smithsonian Institution. She is survived by her husband, Alfred H. Moses, a Washington lawyer and former U.S. ambassador, and four children, Barbara Moses (Grayson) of New York City, Jennifer Moses (Green) of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, David Moses of McLean, and Amalie Moses Reichblum of Bennington, Vermont, 11 grandchildren, a brother, Dr. Richard P. Whitehill of Evergreen, Colorado, and a sister, Jane Whitehill Silberman of Dallas, Texas.
        MOSES--Carol. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of Carol Moses, beloved wife of our honorary president, dear friend and colleague, Ambassador Alfred H. Moses. Carol was a gifted teacher and photographer whose warm and gracious personality endeared her to all. Her courageous spirit and love of life will long be remembered. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to Alfred, their four children, 11 grandchildren and the rest of the grieving family. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Exec. Dir. Shulamith Bahat Assoc. Executive Director
      