
        LANDAUER--Eva, a distinguished child psychoanalyst born on October 9, 1917 in Heilbron, Germany. died on February 14, 2004. Ms. Landauer was the daughter of Dr. Karl Landauer, a prominent German-Jewish psychoanalyst who was one of the founders of the Frankfurt Psychoanalytic Institute. In 1933, the family had to leave Nazi Germany and established residence in Holland, where Dr. Landauer started a private practice and the Landauer children, Eva, her younger sister (Susan) and brother (Paul) resumed their schooling. It was Eva's intent to follow in the footsteps of her father as a psychoanalyst. However, all that was to change as a result of the harsh realities of the German conquest of Holland. Schooling was no longer an option for Jewish children. Eventually, Dr. Landauer, his wife Karolina, and Eva were transferred to a Dutch internment camp and later shipped to the German concentration camp of Bergen-Belsen, where Dr. Landauer died of starvation. Miraculously both Eva and her mother survived and later emigrated to the United States, where they were joined by Susan and Paul, both of whom had managed to avoid capture with the assistance of the Dutch underground. Once again the family had to start life anew. Eva was able to resume her schooling by obtaining a scholarship to Columbia University where she eventually obtained a Master's degree. Later she attended the London School of Economics on a Fulbright scholarship and also attended the Hempstead Clinic. She then returned to the United States and was able to work as a child analyst for the rest of her professional life. She became a member of The New York Freudian Society, International Psychoanalytic Association and The Association for Child Psychoanalysis where she served on the Executive Committee. In addition, she worked for the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, both at the Child Development Center and later as a valued senior clinical supervisor in the agency's Advanced Training Program. She will be greatly missed by her colleagues, students and friends, many of whom were unaware of the horrors of her past since she was never one to invoke the sympathy of others by dwelling on her personal hardships. She is survived by her sister Susan, her brother-in-law, Dr. Martin Fleishman, her sister-in-law, Joyce Landauer, her nephews Matthew and Charles Landauer and Charles' wife Susan Stafford Landauer and children, Ben and Megan Landauer.
        LANDAUER--Eva. On February 14th, 2004, age 86. The New York Freudian Society mourns the death of our valued and loved colleague and friend. Eva was a gifted child psychoanalyst, trained in London with Anna Freud. Her father, Karl Landauer, a close associate of Sigmund Freud, founded the Frankfort Psychoanalytic Institute. Dedicated teacher, supervisor and mentor to countless of our members and candidates and to those of the Association for Child Psychoanalysis and the Jewish Board of Family & Children's Services where she worked for 50 years.
        LANDAUER--Eva. The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services notes with sadness the death of Eva Landauer, former Senior Supervisor at the Child Development Center and teacher at the JBFCS Advanced Training Program in Child Therapy. A seminal thinker who had a major influence on theory and practice in child treatment, Eva was well-respected and beloved by many years of students and supervisees. She was a true teacher. Jean L. Troubh, President Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive VP and CEO
      