
        SHEINKMAN--Jack. The administration and board of Amalgamated Bank mourns the death of Jack Sheinkman, former Chairman of the Bank and President of the Amalgamated Closing and Textile Workers Union (now known as UNITE!). An exceptional fighter for labor in the boardroom and on the ground, Mr. Sheinkman pioneered the area of corporate governance when, in 1992, he founded a set of institutional investment funds, the LongView Funds, to enhance shareholder value through active and involved ownership. He also led the labor union in two historic struggles: the campaign to bring social and economic justice to 4,000 workers at the Farah Manufacturing plants in Texas in 1972, which took 22 months before its successful conclusion; and the struggle to unionize J.P. Stevens textile plants, which took over four years and ended in a contractual agreement in 1980. His passing is a sad loss to banking and labor communities, and our hearts go out to his family and all who loved him. The Administration & Board of Amalgamated Bank and UNITE! Labor Union
        SHEINKMAN--Jack. The officers, members and staff of the Jewish Labor Committee mourn the loss of Jack Sheinkman, trade union and human rights activist, and past president of our organization. He was a strong and devoted leader of the JLC, serving on our National Executive Board and for two terms as President of the Jewish Labor Committee, beginning in 1974. He believed in the rights of all workers to be treated with dignity, justice and respect, and devoted his life to advancing their cause. People throughout the world have been touched by his dedication and commitment. Heartfelt condolences to wife Betty; three sons, Joshua, Michael, and Mark; and brother Shepard. Stuart Appelbaum, President Avram B. Lyon, Executive Director
        SHEINKMAN--Jack. UNITE mourns the passing of a hero of our movement and extends our profound condolences to his wife, Betty and their sons, Michael, Joshua and Mark. As President of the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, he pioneered innovative organizing, fought for a progressive role for American labor around the world and helped carry out the merger that created UNITE. He will be remembered as one of the great labor leaders of the 20th century. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Workmen's Circle Multicare Center, 31-55 Grace Ave, Bronx, NY 10469. A memorial service will be held on March 17, at 4:00 PM at the NY Joint Board of UNITE, 31 W. 15 St, The family of UNITE our affiliates and members officers and staff.
        SHEINKMAN--Jack. A true American hero, he fought for the rights of workers both on and off the job. We salute him, his life, his work, his wonderful family. United Housing Foundation Harold Ostroff, Chairman Harvey Sigelbaum, President
      