
        POLLACK--Julia Moselle. February 13th, 2004. Born in Fayetteville, Arkansas to Flora and Harry Baum. Married Isadore Erlich 1934 (died 1968). Survived by her adoring husband of 32 years, the Honorable Milton Pollack, United States District Judge of the Southern District of New York. Moselle, her first name Julia, walked with dignity and grace. She was a woman of great elegance and taste. She was a woman of unconceivable vision, incisiveness and purpose. Utterly selfless and self-effacing--a southern beauty with comprehensive understanding and devotion to family. She glorified in its achievements. A true lady, she was known for her style, charm, intelligence and wit and her presence always illuminated a room. Her charisma and graciousness were an inspiration. Moselle was a devoted matriarch of an extended family and a pioneer businesswoman in Houston, Texas, where she began her illustrious career at Neiman Marcus. She opened the children's clothing department at The Fashion in Houston. With her first husband, Isadore Erlich, she founded a chain of department stores that included the Palais Royal Stores in Texas and neighboring states. After the death of her husband, Moselle remained the active chairman until the company was sold in 1988. Throughout her life, Moselle was always revered as an extraordinary, sweet, genuine and accomplished woman who exercised philanthropic efforts in a private and anonymous manner. Her amazing life full of love, joy and kindness will be celebrated by her family in Houston, Texas. She will always be cherished by her daughters, Joan and husband Marvin Kaplan, Judy and husband Rodney Margolis, Phyllis and husband George Asch, Stephanie and husband William Miller, and sister, Elka Warren, and her grandchildren, Karen and Roy Brooks, Susan and Forrest Bruch, Deborah and Richard Kaplan, Nancy and Robert Risman, Melanie and Lawrence Margolis, Jill and Jeff Levenson, Elizabeth and Daniel Treinish, Drs. Debra Singer and Hal Stein and Marcy Singer Gabella and William Gabella plus 18 greatgrandchildren. Predeceased by sister, Claire Meyers. We will always love you Mimi and you will always be alive in our memory and our hearts.
        POLLACK -- Julia Moselle. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to Judge Milton Pollack, esteemed Board of Trustees member, and his family, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of the passing of his wife, our devoted member, Julia Moselle Pollack. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who loved her be comforted. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. Herbert C. Bernard, Sec'y.
      