
        HARTH--Robert. Columbia Artists Management Inc. is deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and colleague, Robert Harth. Throughout his life he worked tirelessly to ensure that the music he loved so deeply would flourish and thrive. Robert's remarkable ability to inspire others, the strength of his passion, the steadiness of his vision, and his great personal warmth will be greatly missed by all of us who have known him. We will remember him with great affection and esteem, and extend our sincere sympathy to his family, his Carnegie Hall colleagues and musical friends throughout the world. Ronald A. Wilford, Chairman and the Board of Directors and staff of Columbia Artists Management Inc.
        HARTH--Robert. The Board, Artists and staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center extend our deepest sympathies to the family of Robert Harth and to all of our colleagues at Carnegie Hall. Mr. Harth's inspired commitment to his work brought him the respect, admiration and friendship of colleagues throughout our profession. His tireless efforts enriched our cultural life in New York City and set an example that we were proud to follow. We will miss him deeply. Donaldson C. Pillsbury, Chairman Peter Frelinghuysen, President David Shifrin, Artistic Director Norma Hurlburt, Executive Director
        HARTH--Robert. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the untimely death of Robert Harth. He brought extraordinary leadership and vision to one of the great cultural institutions of our nation and will be missed by everyone in the arts community. We are grateful to have had the privilege of working with him for the Met Orchestra concert series at Carnegie Hall, and the Met Chamber Ensemble performances at Weill Hall and Zankel Hall. We offer our sincerest condolences to his family, friends, and colleagues, and join in their profound sadness. Joseph Volpe General Manager James Levine Artistic Director
        HARTH -- Robert. Former President and CEO of the Aspen Music Festival and School. The Musicians of the Aspen Music Festival and School mourn the sudden passing of Robert Harth, our friend and leader for more than 12 years. Robert was a courageous and brilliant visionary who secured the foundations for the current and future success of our Festival and School. His fire and inspiration will be missed deeply by all. Our condolences to all of Robert's family and friends. The Music Faculty of the Aspen Music Festival and School
        HARTH--Robert. The Orchestra of Saint Luke's Board, staff and musicians mourn with great sadness the untimely passing of our wonderful friend, Robert Harth. The inestimable loss of his vision and humanity will be felt by us all. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family and with everyone at Carnegie Hall. Marianne C. Lockwood, President and Exec. Dir. Edward P. Sweeney, V.P. and General Mgr Donald Runnicles, Principal Conductor Norman Benzaquen, Board Chairman
        HARTH--Robert. The administration, Board, faculty and staff of the Aspen Music Festival and School, express their deep sorrow at the untimely passing of immediate past President Robert Harth. His passing is a tragic loss for music, and especially for all those who had the privilege and honor to work with this strong and gentle man. There is a vacant feeling today in the heart and soul of our Aspen music family. May all who loved him be comforted. Joan Harris, Chair Don Roth, President David Zinman, Music Director
        HARTH--Robert. Manhattan School of Music is deeply saddened by the loss of Robert Harth. We will miss his friendship, leadership, brilliance, warmth and vision. His untimely passing is a tragic loss to the music world and we are grateful for all that he did to encourage and support the enrichment of so many young musicians. Our heartfelt condolences to Sidney, Teresa and his entire family as well as his colleagues at Carnegie Hall. David A. Rahm, Chairman, Board of Trustees Marta Istomin, President
        HARTH--Robert. It is with anguish that Nonesuch Records recognizes the loss of Robert Harth, our friend and collaborator. Robert brought warmth, enthusiasm and honesty to everything he did and everyone he knew. In an amazingly short time, he reinvigorated Carnegie Hall with the power of his ideas and his personality. He will be sorely missed by the musical community of New York, and the world, and by all of us at Nonesuch. Robert Hurwitz, President Nonesuch Records
        HARTH--Robert J. The Los Angeles Philharmonic family mourns the untimely loss of our dear friend and former associate Robert Harth. We remember Robert for his vision, dedication to the field, sense of humor and collegiality. On behalf of the musicians, staff and Board we send our condolences to Robert's family and our Carnegie Hall colleagues. He will be deeply missed by us all. Esa-Pekka Salonen, Music Director John Hotchkis, Chairman Deborah Borda, President
        HARTH--Robert. The New York Philharmonic notes with sadness the untimely passing of our exteemed colleague, Robert Harth, a great leader in the classical music world. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family, his companion Stacey Buck, and to all our friends at Carnegie Hall. Lorin Maazel, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Zarin Mehta, Exec. Director Members of the Staff
        HARTH--Robert. ICM Artists mourns the premature death of our colleague, Robert Harth, who combined impeccable musical taste with infectious humor and unfailing honesty. Carnegie Hall and the international world of music have lost a powerful champion, and we have lost a beloved friend. Lee Lamont, Chairman Emeritus David V. Foster, President Jenny Vogel, Exec. V.P. Byron Gustafson, Exec. V.P.
        HARTH--Robert. The Partners and staff of Polshek Partnership Architects are devastated by the loss of this remarkable man. Robert Harth was a musical visionary. We will miss his friendship, support and spirited artistic leadership. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his family and to the Board and staff of Carnegie Hall. James S. Polshek Joseph L. Fleischer Richard M. Olcott
        HARTH--Robert. The family of the Curtis Institute of Music mourns the sudden passing of our overseer, Robert Harth. Our heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and our colleagues at Carnegie Hall. Gary Graffman, President/Director Richard A. Doran, Chairman Efrem Zimbalist III, Chairman, Board of Overseers The Curtis Institute of Music
        HARTH--Robert. The entire Orpheus Chamber Orchestra family mourns the sudden loss of our friend and colleague, Robert Harth. Our musical landscape is tragically altered with the passing of so bright a light. Deepest sympathies to his family and our partners at Carnegie Hall. Connie Steensma, Chairman Ronnie Bauch, Violin and Managing Director Board, Orchestra & Staff
        HARTH--Robert J. On behalf of the Board of Directors and staff of the American Symphony Orchestra League, we extend our sincere condolences to the family, friends, and colleagues of Robert J. Harth. We are all deeply indebted to his invaluable service to classical music and America's orchestras. He inspired us all and we will miss him.
        HARTH -- Robert J. The friends and members of the Board of the Lauri Strauss Leukemia Foundation mourn the untimely death of the gifted Executive and Artistic Director of Carnegie Hall, Robert J. Harth. A friend to all the arts, he will be missed by all of us. Evelyn I. Strauss and Herbert H. Strauss
        HARTH -- Robert. Chamber Music America mourns the untimely passing of Robert Harth, whose commitment to musical excellence and diversity inspired us all. We extend our sympathy to his family and our colleagues at Carnegie Hall. Board and Staff of CMA
        HARTH--Robert. The CIG mourns the untimely passing of our dear colleague Robert Harth of Carnegie Hall. Cultural Institutions Group Karen Brooks Hopkins, Chair Janet Schneider, Director
        HARTH--Robert. Miller Theatre mourns the loss of our colleague and friend, Robert Harth. He will be sorely missed. George Steel, Exec. Dir.
      