
        McMAHON--Thomas Vaughan, of Westhampton Beach, NY, died on February 17, 2004, surrounded by his family. Tom is survived by Barbara, his devoted wife of 50 years, as well as four children and their spouses, Don and Kate Galletly of Houston, TX, Molly and Frank Maguire of Darien, CT, Tom and Hilary McMahon of Hillsborough, CA, and Mimi and Frank Melo of Walpole, MA. Known to his grandchildren and their friends as ''Dear'', Tom's seven grandchildren are Barbara and Patrice Galletly, Julie and Frank Maguire, and Tommy, Michael and Erin McMahon. Also surviving Tom are a brother, James, and a sister, Joan. Tom was predeceased by his brother, Edward. Born to Edward W. and Gertrude V. McMahon on October 19, 1924, Tom was reared in Brooklyn and schooled at Poly Prep, Class of '42. He earned his college degree from Princeton University, Class of '46. Tom served his country in the U.S. Army during World War II. Upon completing his legal studies at St. John's Law School, Tom joined and later became a partner of Conboy, Hewitt, O'Brien & Boardman. He practiced law for more than 55 years, principally as a trial lawyer in the New York region. Of that career, he was most proud of the last 14 years which were spent as a partner of the New York area firm of Ahmuty, Demers & McManus, where he helped build the firm's practice on the east end of Long Island. He was a member of the New York State Bar Association, the National Association of Rail Road Trial Counsel, the Knights of Malta, the Princeton Club and the Westhampton Country Club. Visitation will take place at Follett & Werner Funeral Home (60 Mill Road, Westhampton Beach, NY 11978) from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. on February 20, 2004. A funeral Mass will be held at Immaculate Conception Church (580 Main Street, Westhampton Beach) at 9:30 a.m. on February 21, 2004. In lieu of flowers, donations to East End Hospice (PO Box 1048, Westhampton Beach, NY 11978) are appreciated.
        McMAHON -- Thomas. The East End Hospice Board of Directors, staff and volunteers note with great sadness the death of Thomas McMahon. Devoted husband to Hospice board member and patron, Barbara McMahon. Thomas was a loyal supporter of Hospice. We are truly grateful to have had his counsel and friendship. We extend our deepest sympathy to Barbara, his children, grandchildren, family and to his many friends. We shall miss him dearly. Priscilla Ruffin, Exec Dir W. Michael Pitcher, President of the Board of Directors East End Hospice Westhampton Beach, NY
      