
        KELLEN--Stephen M. died at Lenox Hill Hospital on February 11, 2004 in New York City. He is survived by his wife Anna-Maria Kellen, his daughter Marina French, his son Michael M. Kellen, his granddaughters Annabelle Garrett and Caroline Kellen, his grandsons Andrew Gundlach and Christopher Kellen, and one great grandchild. The funeral service will be private and the interment will be in Lausanne, Switzerland. A memorial service will be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions to the American Academy in Berlin, 14 E 60th St, NY, NY 10021, The Cancer Research Institute, 681 Fifth Ave, NY, NY 10022, The Third Street Music School Settlement, 235 E. 11th St, NY, NY 10003 or the InterFaith Center of New York, 40 E 30th St, NY, NY 10016.
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The Trustees and Staff of The American Academy in Berlin are profoundly saddened by the passing of Stephen M. Kellen, our founding father, colleague and friend. It was a privilege to have been associated with him, a person known for his integrity, vision, and magnanimity. His drive and vision led him to help rebuild the country he had to leave. His equal passions were Berlin and New York, and he expressed his love for both by tirelessly supporting those cultural institutions which would strengthen their bond. As he always said with pride ''I have become a good New Yorker while remaining a true Berliner.'' We will never forget him; his vision will continue to guide us. Richard C. Holbrooke Chairman Robert H. Mundheim President The American Academy in Berlin
        KELLEN -- Stephen. The Trustees, Faculty and staff of New School University and the Board of Governors of Parsons School of Design mourn the loss of Stephen M. Kellen, a profoundly meaningful friend and benefactor. Along with his wife, AnnaMaria, Stephen generously provided an invaluable resource for the greater design and art communities through the creation of the Anna-Maria and Stephen Kellen Archives Center at Parsons. Although no longer with us, his presence remains in his work and the lives he has enhanced, and we were privileged to have his involvement and support. Our condolences go to Anna-Maria, his children Marina and Michael, and their families. Philip Scaturro, Chairman, Board of Trustees Bob Kerrey, President, New School University H. Randolph Swearer, Dean, Parsons School of Design
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Interfaith Center of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Stephen M. Kellen. A devoted supporter and Charter Board Member of The Interfaith Center since its beginning in 1997, Stephen perceived the critical need for both practical collaboration and sincere respect among the leaders and members of the many diverse religious communities of our city. His immense generosity and delightful humor were invaluable to our work and spirit. Our love to his wife, Anna Maria, his children, Marina and Michael, his grandchildren and his great - grandchildren, of whom he was so proud. The Very Reverend James Parks Morton Founder and President Mary Jane Brock Chair, Board of Directors The Interfaith Center of NY
        KELLEN--Stephen. The officers, Board of Directors, andstaff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stephen Kellen, a cherished friend who was committed to humanitarian causes. Through his involvement in the Centennial Foundation, Mr. Kellen was a longtime supporter of UJA-Federation, as well as the performing arts, education, and healthcare. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        KELLEN--Stephen M. His generosity towards New York's great cultural institutions is celebrated. Less well known are his contributions to our city's neighborhoods-from the restoration of the Heinrich Heine fountain in the Bronx to the conservation of WPA murals at the library in Astoria. Having witnessed the wartime devastation of cities in his native Germany, he cherished the architectural treasures and monuments of New York. A citizen of the world, his interests greatly affected the civility of his adopted city. The Municipal Art Society of New York
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The Board of Directors and staff of Third Street Music School Settlement are deeply saddened by the death of Stephen M. Kellen, beloved husband of our Chairman, AnnaMaria Kellen. His wisdom, caring and generosity benefited us all and made a profound difference in the lives of thousands of Third Street children and their families. With Anna-Maria, he has made New York City a more vibrant place to live. We will miss him greatly and offer our love and heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Gerald D. Cohen, President Barbara E. Field, Exec. Dir.
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The Board of Trustees of The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine mourns the death of Stephen M. Kellen, a longtime devoted friend. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Anna-Maria, and all of his family. We thank God for his many years of faithful and generous support of the Cathedral. The Rt. Rev. Mark S. Sisk, Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New York Henry L. King, President of the Board The Very Rev. Dr. James A. Kowalski, Dean
        KELLEN--Stephen M. The entire family of the American Council on Germany --directors, members, staff, fellows and young leaders --notes with deepest grief the passing of their inspiring friend, steadfast supporter, dedicated mentor, and fellow director, Stephen M. Kellen, after 40 years of close association.
      