
        KAYES--Cecily Elmes, who served on active duty as one of the youngest members of the Women's Air Force Service Pilots during World War II, died in her residence in Manhattan on Monday, February 2nd. She had recently undergone surgery for colon cancer that had spread to other vital organs of her body, according to a family spokesperson. She was 80 years old. Mrs. Kayes was born in Chicago, where her father, Cecil Elmes, an Englishman who had become an American citizen, headed a firm of engineering consultants. When her family moved to New York City, she was enrolled at the Nightingale-Bamford School and subsequently on graduation, Vassar College. Her collegiate studies ended when the Women's Air Force Service Pilots lowered its age limit and she promptly withdrew from Vassar to join the volunteer organization headed by Jacqueline Cochrane. Mrs. Kayes entered the WASP as a licensed aviation pilot. At the age of fifteen she had begun taking flying lessons in Sarasota, where her parents had a winter home, and she joined the WASP as a qualified flight pilot and instructor. In addition to her duties as a flight instructor, she piloted B-26s on target towing missions during gunnery practice for Air Force and Navy student pilots, remaining with the WASP until it was disbanded shortly before the end of the war. In later years Mrs. Kayes, a member of the New York Junior League, served as its vice-president and was actively involved in its volunteer social work programs. In addition to participating in its annual Mardi Gras fundraising events as a Beauty Queen, she focused on the activities of the Women's Prison Association, where she served as a member of its board of directors and as president of the organization. Despite her commitment to volunteer social service work and the rigorous task of raising 3 children as a divorced single mother, Mrs. Kayes had a professional career as Cecily Crawford in residental real estate in New York City. Her specialty was cooperative apartment sales, and she had a long association with the firm of Kenneth Ives, which was subsequently merged into the Douglas Elliman organization. Surviving are 3 children by her marriage to James W. Crawford: James W. Crawford III of New Berlin, WI, Lillian Aronow of Coconut Grove, FL, Elizabeth Crawford of Lambertville, NJ, 7 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren. Her husband, Alan Kayes, a longtime resident of Water Mill and Southampton, who now resides at Peconic Landing in Greenport, NY also survives. A memorial service will take place in the chapel of Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street on Thursday, February 5th at 3:30 PM.
      