
        BENENSON--Charles B. Devoted and beloved husband of Jane. Devoted and beloved father of Bruce William, Frederick and Lawrence. Cherished brother of Lawrence and Raymond. Passed away suddenly on February 22 in Palm Beach, FL. He lived to be 91 years old and remained active in his many pursuits to the very end. In addition to his sons and his brothers, he will be greatly missed by his four grandchildren, dedicated office staff, nieces, nephews, cousins and business associates, all of whom benefited from his wonderful qualities and dedication. His business career, spanning a remarkable 70 years, and his passion for the arts brought him in close intimate contact with all aspects of New York City life. His contributions to the arts, education for inner-city children and Jewish philanthropic causes were known to all, as was his personal commitment to Yale University. He was a founding member of the Association for a Better New York, the Realty Foundation, the Lincoln Center Real Estate and Construction Council, the New York Junior Tennis League, the I Have a Dream Program, and the Museum of African Art and numerous other charitable organizations. Widely respected for his wisdom and integrity in the real estate industry, his humor, optimism and vitality enriched the lives of all who came to know him. His sophistication and intellect were an inspiration to all who knew him. His devotion and love were of inestimable value to those closest to him; their loss is irreplaceable. Funeral services at Temple Emanu-El, 65th Street and Fifth Avenue, at 10 am, Friday, February 27. Visiting at Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue, Wednesday, February 25, and Thursday, February 26, 6 pm to 9 pm. In lieu of flowers, send donations to the American Jewish Committee, 165 East 56th Street, New York, NY 10022, Inner-City Scholarship Fund, 1011 1st Avenue, New York, NY 10022, or the New York Junior Tennis League, 24-16 Queens Plaza South, Long Island City, NY 11101.
        BENENSON--Charles B. Our dear Charlie, our hearts are saddened at your passing. Charlie was a motivating force within our organization for five decades, serving as Director, Vice President, Chairman of our Scholarship Committee -- always only with the best interests of all concerned, the consummate professional. He gave of his time, wisdom, his heart. A wonderful, gentle man, always smiling--always contributing his joy of life, art and laughter to those around. In 2000, we honored Charlie as our ''Man of the Year''--taking the podium to a thunderous roar of applause and laughter--he lit up the room as only Charlie could do. Rest gently, dear man. We shall miss you terribly. You shall remain in our hearts and we will smile when we gather at our meetings and think of you at the table. You will alwys be the heart of the Foundation. Our deepest condolences to his wife Jane, sons Bill, Fred, Lawrence, extended family, and employees of Benenson Capital Corp. L.A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        BENENSON -- Charles. We deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend and trusted advisor, Charles Benenson, who served Loews Corporation as a Director for 41 years, until his retirement from the Board in 2001. Charlie has been witness to--and instrumental in--a stellar period of growth of Loews Corporation, since 1960 when he first joined the Board. His close friendship with Larry and Bob Tisch spanned that period and beyond. He was a distinguished business leader and a visionary philanthropist. We will truly miss his wise counsel, his sage perception and his deep intellect. We express our sympathy to his wife, Jane, and his entire family. Loews Corporation Board of Directors
        BENENSON--Charles B. Was a leading builder, philanthropist and art collector who will be sorely missed by all who knew him. He created scholarship funds for employees in the building industry and their children. This fund has in the past 30 years assisted hundreds of students to earn their college degrees. Charlie was active on behalf of the Inner Cities Scholarship Foundation and a sponsor of the ''I Have a Dream Foundation.'' He recently endowed a Curatorship in African Art at his alma mater, Yale University. Charlie's accomplishments were many and varied, but above all he was my very special friend. Sheldon H. Solow Solow Building Company
        BENENSON--Charles B. The American Jewish Committee is profoundly saddened by the death of Charles Benenson, a longtime and cherished member of AJC's National Leadership Council and a major patron of our humanitarian relief efforts around the world. We were proud to honor Charles with our National Human Relations Award in 2001 for his lifetime of achievements in the real estate industry and unceasing devotion to philanthropy. His leadership and friendship will be sorely missed. We send heartfelt condolences to his family. Harold Tanner, President David A. Harris, Exec. Dir.
        BENENSON--Charles B. Benenson Capital Partners mourns the loss of our distinguished leader. Charlie, we will miss your intelligence, leadership, wit and sense of humor. We will always remember your extraordinary achievements as a real estate genius, business leader and philanthropist. New Yorkers will miss your vision, charity and dedication to New York. Our deepest sympathy goes to his wife, Jane, his sons, Bill, Fred and Lawrence, his brothers, Lawrence and Raymond, and the entire Benenson family. Your Benenson Capital Partners Family
        BENENSON -- Charles. We mourn the loss of Charles B. Benenson. A giant in the industry, he had a brilliant instinct for business, a great heart for philanthropy, and an unerring eye for art. His partnership with the Weiler Arnow families spanned more than half a century, and we benefited through the generations from his thoughtful counsel, his integrity and his generosity. A leader in the community and a great friend to us all, we mourn his loss and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Jane and his family. Weiler Arnow Families
        BENENSON--Charles B. It is with great sadness that the Inner City Scholarship Fund family notes the passing of a longtime member of our Board of Trustees and the President of Benenson Capital Company. We are so grateful for his profound commitment to our children attending the inner city schools of the Archdiocese of New York. His generous spirit will never be forgotten. Our hearts go out to his wife Jane and his three sons, Bruce, Frederick and Lawrence, in this time of loss.
        BENENSON--Charles B. Charlie, you were my mentor for 25 years. I will always remember the valuable lessons you taught me about the real estate business. I have taken your insights in business and charity and made them a part of my life. Working for you has brought me both personal & professional success. I will miss you. Stephanie and I offer our heartfelt condolences to Jane, Bill, Fred, Lawrence, his brothers, Lawrence and Raymond, and the entire Benenson family. Richard & Stephanie Kessler
        BENENSON -- Charles. The Board and Staff of the Mosholu Montefiore Community Center express our deepest condolences to our Board Member, Lawrence Benenson and his family on the passing of his father. Charles Benenson was a major benefactor of the restoration of our Gun Hill Road building. He truly cared for the children and families of the Bronx. Andrew Berkman, President Donald Bluestone, Exec. Dir.
        BENENSON--Charles B. The Advisory Board, faculty and students of the Real Estate Institute of New York University mourn the passing of Charles Benenson, a true leader in our industry. Charles was a great friend and supporter of the Real Estate Institute. We extend our condolences to his family. D. Kenneth Patton, Associate Dean James D. Kuhn, Chairman, Advisory Board
        BENENSON--Charles. We are saddened by the passing of our good friend and trusted partner Charles Benenson. He was a true legend in our industry, and he was equally respected for his philanthropic efforts on behalf of our community. We extend our condolences to Lawrence and the entire Benenson family. We are grateful for the joy he brought to our lives and will miss his wise counsel. Aaron and Jeffrey Gural
        BENENSON--Charles. The partners of Newmark & Company Real Estate would like to express their deepest sympathies to Lawrence and the entire Benenson family on the loss of Charles Benenson. He was a loyal friend and dedicated philanthropist. Our lives are all enriched for having known him, and his legacy will live on forever. Newmark & Company Real Estate, Inc.
        BENENSON--Charles B. The members and staff of Goldfarb & Fleece express our deep sorrow and condolences to the entire Benenson family for the passing of Charlie. His integrity, business savvy and understated generosity was an inspiration to us all. Charlie was a great man and we are all blessed to have had him as our client and friend.
        BENENSON--Charles B. The New York Junior Tennis League and the Sports & Arts in Schools Foundation mourn the death of our dear friend and advisor and member of our Board for 20 years, whose generous spirit, support and wisdom made our work with New York City youth succesful. Our heartfelt condolences to his family.
        BENENSON--Charles B. We offer our most heartfelt sympathy to Jane, Bill, Fred and Lawrence. Charlie was a friend and guiding light throughout our lives. We will miss him terribly. Midge Nutman and Leonard Kreppel
        BENENSON--Charles. Charlie, you will be with us always. Our heartfelt sympathy to Jane, sons Billy, Fred and Lawrence, brothers Lawrence and Raymond and the entire Benenson Family Jim and Maureen
        BENENSON--Charles B. We are saddened by the loss of an extraordinary, generous and kind man. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the Benenson family. The Lax Family
        BENENSON--Charles B. I miss you. Shaun
      