
        TISHMAN -- Margaret W. (Peggy). The leadership, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities note with deep sorrow the loss of Peggy Tishman, an extraordinary and articulate advocate for the needs of the Jewish community. In addition to sixty years of inspired leadership and dedicated service to the Jewish community, Peggy had the unique distinction of being the first woman president of a major Jewish federation. Her compassion for the plight of needy elderly and the unselfish manner with which she opened her heart and home to those around her, set a standard of leadership that was unprecedented. Peggy served as the president of the UJA-Federation of New York from 1986-1989 through the merger, which established the organization. She helped found the Jewish Association for the Aged and developed an endowments program to secure the community's future. She served as a board member of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Jewish Home and Hospital, and as President of the Jewish Community Relations Council of NY. Peggy's contributions to the Jewish community were nationally recognized. Her tireless spirit, honesty and determination serve as a model of grace under pressure, the best in voluntary leadership. Her humanitarian spirit and ability to turn ideas into action will be sorely missed. To Peggy's daughter, Pat Hall, and to the entire Tishman Family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. May they all be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Robert Goldberg Chairman of the UJC Board Morton B. Plant Chairman of the Executive Committee Kathy Manning Treasurer Stephen H. Hoffman President and CEO
        TISHMAN--Margaret Peggy. The International Longevity Center-U.S.A. (ILC), its Board and its Staff, deeply mourn the loss of one of the city's and the nation's most caring and brilliant women who, in myriad ways, contributed to the lives of all of us. Peggy especially helped older persons including service on The Council of The Geriatrics Department at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and as Honorary Board Member of The ILC. We extend our deepest sympathy to her daughter, Pat Hall, and other loving family members who have lost one of the most radiant, generous, and resilient members of the human family. Robert N. Butler, M.D., President and CEO, ILC Professor of Geriatrics Mount Sinai School of Medicine
      