
        FURMAN--Carol M. Loving mother of Debbie and Billy Wolff and Patti Miller. Beloved husband of Robert. Adored grandmother of Natalie and Jared. Special friend of Julie, Ted, Judy, Matt, Emily, Michelle, Sidney and Susan Laden. Services Monday, 9:30 am, at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th Street and Madison Ave.
        FURMAN--Carol. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our devoted friend and supporter, a member of the Board of our National Women's Division and a past president of its New York Chapter. She was also a member of our Society of Founders and a dedicated and articulate advocate for our institution over many years. She will be greatly missed for her warmth and wisdom, and well as for her leadership abilities. We extend heartfelt condolences to her husband Robert Furman, her daughters Patti Miller and Debbi Wolff, her grandchildren Jared and Natalie, and to the entire family. Yeshiva University Richard Joel, President Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman, Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Robert A. Belfer, Chairperson, Board of Overseers Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Linda Altman, President National Women's Division Leslie D. Toepfer, President, New York Chapter Judy R. Rosenberg, Chairwoman, Executive Committee
        FURMAN--Carol. It is with profound sadness that we mourn the passing of our esteemed Board member, Carol Furman, beloved wife of Robert Furman. All of us at the New York Chapter extend our deepest condolences to Bob and the entire family. Wendy C. Schmidt, President Alexandra Ziogas, Exec Dir New York Chapter Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International
        FURMAN--Carol. To our dear friend Carol, you were an inspiration to us all. You fought a lengthy battle with grace, courage and never a complaint. To Bob, her devoted husband, beloved daughters Patti and Debbie, son-in-law Billy and adored grandchildren Natalie and Jared, we extend our sincerest sympathy. Nancy and Harold Oelbaum Nancy and Jeffrey Lane
        FURMAN--Carol. To my best friend Carol, a jewel to all who knew her. A person of great warmth and generosity who cared deeply for her family and friends. My heartfelt sympathies to her daughters Debbie and Patti and her husband Bob. Susan
        FURMAN--Carol. Carol, you were a shining star to all who knew you. Your courage and positive attitude and warmth will always be an example to all of us. We will sorely miss you. Judith and Norman Cohen
        FURMAN--Carol. Your courageous battle has come to an end, but your memory will live on forever. Our condolences to Bob and your entire family. Joyce and Bob
        FURMAN--Carol. We miss you, your smile, your love, your daily phone calls. You will always be a part of us. Rest in peace. Debbie, Patti, Billy Natalie and Jared
        FURMAN -- Carol. Beloved friend, incredible woman. You lived life to the fullest up to the last minute. You will always be in our hearts. Barbara, Joan and Bob
        FURMAN--Carol. Goodbye, Mommy. We will always love you, now you are our special angel. Debbie and Patti
        FURMAN--Carol. We love you. Condolences to Bob and the family. Patti and Herb Frumkes
      