
        DRAZEN--Martin, 85, formerly of Armonk, NY, passed away after a long illness in Jupiter, FL on March 4, 2004. A graduate of NYU with a Doctor of Laws and a Master of Laws in taxation former Senior Partner of McCarthy, Fingar, Donovan, Drazen & Smith in White Plains, Past President of the Westchester County Bar Association and its former Chairman and Founder of the Section on Taxation and former President of the White Plains Bar Association. Founder and Board Member of the Life Long Learning Society of Florida Atlantic University. Survived by his loving wife and best friend of 61 years Margaret (Paul) Drazen, his devoted daughters and sonin-law, Laurel Drazen and Karen and Martin Berger, his adoring granddaughters Staci Barber, Sueann McCarthy and Ryan Krobath, his two grandsons-in-law John and Peter, and three great grandchildren Morgan, Matthew and Eric. He is also survived by three step-grandchildren and five step-great grandchildren. A great man and a brilliant lawyer, he deeply cherished his family. All will sorely miss his wise, kind and gentle nature. We love you GG Marty. Funeral service Sunday, March 7, 1:30 PM at Temple Beth Am, 2250 Central Blvd, Jupiter. In lieu of flowers, we would be grateful for contributions in his memory to CARE LINK C/O Dr. Rosenberg, 412 Center Street, Jupiter, FL. 33458.
        DRAZEN--Martin. ''GG Marty''--as half of the fabulous duo of ''M&M'', you were a tremendous inspiration, source of strength, beacon of integrity, and fount of fatherly love. We will cherish our time together forever. We love you. Staci, John and Eric Barber
        DRAZEN--Martin. Our hearts go out to our dear friend Karen Berger over the loss of her beloved father. Our thoughts and prayers are with Karen's mother, Margaret, and her sister, Laurel, and the entire Drazen and Berger family. Gwen and Lester Fisher
        DRAZEN--Martin. Distinctive attorney, retired in Jupiter. Sincere condolences to his beloved and devoted wife Marge, his daughters Karen and Laurel, and his four grandchildren. The Rudin Family
        DRAZEN--Martin. We mourn the passing of a wonderful man. Caring husband of Marge, father of our Karen and father-in-law of our Dad, Martin. With love, Brad and Greg Berger and Leslie Berger Mendell
        DRAZEN--Martin. Beloved husband of Margaret. Father of Karen and Laurel, son-inlaw Martin Berger. In memory of a man who left his compassionate mark upon us all. Marola and Charles Persico
        DRAZEN--Martin. We mourn the passing of our grand and great-grandfather. He was truly an inspiration to all of us and will never be forgotten. Sueann, Peter, Morgan and Matthew McCarthy
        DRAZEN--Martin. We join Marge, Karen and Laurel in mourning the loss of their most distinguished husband and father. Marilyn & Robert Weinberg
        DRAZEN--Martin. Our sincerest sympathy to Margaret, Laurel and our dear friend Karen on your loss. Phyllis & Marty Berman
      