
        CULLMAN--Joan. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Joan Cullman, beloved wife of Joseph Cullman III. Joseph and Joan, cherished friends of UJA-Federation, have been deeply devoted to the Jewish community, humanitarian causes, and cultural arts initiatives. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation are indebted to Joseph for his support and extend their deepest sympathies to him; Joan's son, Barney Straus Jr.; her daughter, Tracy Straus; her grandson; and her entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        CULLMAN--Joan. The American Folk Art Museum records with sorrow the death of Joan Cullman, wife of the museum's deeply respected Trustee Emeritus, Joseph F. Cullman 3rd. A great benefactor of the performing arts and a widely admired producer of award-winning Broadway plays, Joan will be remembered with abiding gratitude for her encouragement of creativity in the arts and her spirited commitment to the city and its cultural life. To our dear friend, Joe, and to Joan's family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Ralph Esmerian, Chairman L. John Wilkerson, President Board of Trustees Gerard C. Wertkin, Director
        CULLMAN -- Joan Paley Straus. The Board and Staff of National Dance Institute mourn the passing of arts advocate, visionary producer and philanthropist Joan Cullman, mother of our Associate Artistic Director and Board member Tracy Straus. NDI joins the numerous arts organizations and artists whose work she helped make possible in remembering and celebrating her life. We extend our sincere sympathy to her beloved family. Elliott Slade and Diane Volk Co-Chairmen Jacques D'Amboise, Founder Ellen Weinstein Artistic Director Lesli Kapell Executive Director
        CULLMAN -- Joan Paley Straus. The Artists, Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are dismayed by the grievous news of the untimely death of our extraordinary Vice Chairman. Joan has been a powerful force in the re-creation of this theater, a devoted Trustee whose passionate advocacy and irresistible charm advanced the cause of the theater at every opportunity. We miss her so much and wish succor and comfort to beloved Joe, Tracy and Barney. John B. Beinecke, Chairman John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Dir. Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer
        CULLMAN--Joan Straus. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Joan Straus Cullman, a highly respected theater producer, and the wife of Joseph Cullman III. Four generations of the Cullman Family have been involved in supporting patient care at Mount Sinai. Their generosity is a treasured legacy to all of us at the Medical Center. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Joseph Cullman III, and the entire family. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, M.D. President and CEO
        CULLMAN--Joan. We wish to express our deepest and profound sadness on the passing of our dear friend, Joan Cullman, a person of great stature and achievement in her love of the theater and the arts. Joan was the beloved wife of our special friend and esteemed trustee, Joseph Cullman, III. Our hearts and prayers are with him. The members of the Board of Trustees of the Silver Shield Foundation express our deepest sympathy to the extended Cullman family. James E. Fuchs, President Silver Shield Foundation
        CULLMAN--Joan. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of our esteemed congregant, Honorary Trustee and former Board member, Joan Cullman, beloved and devoted wife of Joseph Cullman 3rd, co-chair of our Honorary Board. We extend our deepest condolences to Joseph and the family. May her memory be for a blessing. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        CULLMAN--Joan. On behalf of the Trustees, Council and staff of the Gomez Foundation for Mill House, we wish to express our deepest sympathies to our Chairman Joseph F. Cullman 3rd on the passing of his wife, and to the family of Joan Cullman. Our prayers are with them and their families. Robert Jacobs, President Ruth Abrahams, Executive Director
        CULLMAN -- Joan. World Wildlife Fund celebrates the life of our friend Joan Cullman, beloved wife of Joseph Cullman III, longtime WWF Board Member. Joan's talent and creativity enriched the Broadway stage. Her love of wildlife and wild places brought hope for our living planet. She will be deeply missed. Kathryn S. Fuller, President and CEO World Wildlife Fund
        CULLMAN--Joan. We are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our neighbor and dear friend Joan Cullman. A vital member of our community, we will miss her warm smile and her elegant presence. Our deepest condolences to Joe and the family. The 19 East 72nd St Corp Cary A. Koplin, President
        CULLMAN--Joan P. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of Joan Cullman, wife of fellow member and golfer Joseph F. Cullman, III. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to Joe and the Cullman family. Robert E. Morrow, President Harvey L. Radler, Secretary
        CULLMAN--Joan. A dear colleague and friend, whose charm, sunny disposition and dedication to the theatre will be sadly missed. With condolences to Joe and her children. Martin Richards, Sam Crothers and all of us at The Producer Circle
        CULLMAN--Joan. We have lost a beautiful, courageous and very special friend. Our hearts go out to Joe and her children Barney and Tracy. Sherry and Gene Zuriff
      