
        LEVINE--Florence (Tananbaum) of Middletown, New York. Born on March 25, 1925 as the tenth child of the late Harry and Minnie Tananbaum. She died peacefully on March 28, 2004. Beloved wife of nearly 60 years of Jacques Levine; adored mother of Harold (Carol) of Goshen, New York; Alan of New York City; Minna (Ron Calvanio) of Boston; and David (Sherrie Zacharius) of Los Angeles; loving grandmother of Rachel (Matt Steinberg), Eric, Emily, Malcolm, Sam, Ben, Aaron and Miriam; devoted sister of Beatrice and Sidney Solomon and Stanley and Doris Tananbaum and sister-in-law of June and the late Richard Kamil; loving great-aunt; aunt, cousin to the extended Tananbaum and Levine families. A woman of valor and of extraordinary energy and integrity; tireless and selfless worker for her community and for Jewish communal affairs throughout her entire adult life. Funeral services will be held on March 30, 2004 at 3:00 P.M. Temple Sinai, Highland Avenue, Middletown, New York.
        LEVINE--Florence. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Florence Levine, who with her family has expressed an exemplary commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes. Florence's spirit of leadership will continue through her son Alan Levine, vice chair of UJA-Federation's Lawyers Division; and through her brother, Stanley Tananbaum and his wife Doris, devoted leaders of the New York Jewish community. We extend our deepest sympathies to her beloved husband Jacques; to her children, Alan, David, Harold, and Minna; to her brother, Stanley and his wife Doris; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        LEVINE -- Florence. We mourn our beloved aunt Florence Levine, whose love of family has been a guiding force in our lives. We will always remember her loving kindness and compassionate spirit. Janet and Rudi de Winter Deedy and David Goldstick Susan and Bob Klein Susan and Bruce Waterfall Ricki and Bob Conway
        LEVINE -- Florence. The Board of the Martin Tananbaum Foundation mourns the passing of our beloved founding Director. Her devotion and strength of character were a light to all her family. We extend our deepest sympathy to Jack, Minna, Harold, Allen and David. Janet de Winter, President
        LEVINE -- Florence. We mourn the passing of our baby sister, Florence, but we will forever be grateful that she lived. We will miss you ''Cutie'', but we know that you will be in our hearts forever. Doris and Stanley Tananbaum
      