
        O'HERRON--Shirley, of Darien, CT and Quissett, MA, age 74, died peacefully at the Richard Rosenthal Hospice Residence in Stamford on March 27, 2004 after a courageous battle with cancer. She had the good fortune of benefitting from 3 years of expert care provided by the physicians and staffs of New York Presbyterian and the Stamford Hospitals, the Rosenthal Hospice and by several very special ladies, formerly of Jamaica. She was the beloved wife of Jonathan O'Herron and devoted mother to Jonathan O'Herron Jr, Anne Burleigh and Sarah Casey. She is survived by 11 adoring grandchildren. Shirley had a lively intelligence, great character, and remarkable courage. She cared deeply for those less fortunate and had a deep faith in her religion. She was a fabulous cook and a gifted artist. ''Wherever people gather, her deeds will speak her praise.'' Her children and grandchildren have inherited her character and integrity. A graduate of Brown University, she also held a masters degree in religion from Fordham University and was a former member of its Board of Trustees and Executive Committee. She was recently elected a trustee emerita. She was a former board member of the Education for Parish Services, which trains lay people to minister in local communities, and was deeply committed in her support of St. Margaret Mary School in the Bronx and St. Vincent's Hospital in NYC. There will be no calling hours. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held privately at St. John's Church in Darien, followed by interment at Spring Grove Cemetery. A Memorial Mass will be held at 11AM on Friday, April 2, 2004 at St. Thomas Moore Church, 374 Middlesex Rd, Darien. The Rev. Gerald Blaszczak, S.J., of Fordham University, will officiate. Edward Cardinal Egan, the Archbishop of NY, will offer a Mass celebrating her life at St. Patrick's Cathedral at a date to be announced. Memorial donations may be made to Fordham University Development Fund, Bronx, NY 10458.
        O'HERRON -- Shirley. Ford ham University and the Board of Trustees mourn the loss of our colleague and great friend, Shirley O'Herron. A graduate of Fordham University's Graduate School of Religion and Religious Education, she was a valued member of the University's Board of Trustees for many years and a Trustee Emerita until her recent death. Her exemplary service as the Chair of the Board's Student Affairs Committee and a member of the Board's Executive Committee demonstrated her commitment to Fordham University and her deep concern for the University's students. Our thoughts and prayers are with her husband, Jonathan, their children, Jonathan, Jr., Anne, and Sarah, and the other members of the O'Herron family. Paul B. Guenther, Chairman, Board of Trustees Joseph M. McShane, S.J. President
      