
        STERN--Harry J. Born Kirchain, Germany, August 18, 1919, passed away March 21, 2004, Stuart, FL. Beloved husband of Lou. Loving father of Russell, Kenneth and Susan Stern Getz. Caring father-inlaw of Jane Stern, Ilene Stern and David Getz. Very proud grandfather of Ernie and Anabel Getz, and Douglas Stern. Services Tuesday, March 23, 1 pm, Riverside Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY.
        STERN--Harry J. With deep sadness, the officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague and beloved friend Harry J. Stern of Sands Point, NY and Palm Beach, FL. A long-standing and zealous supporter of the ATS, Technion and Israel, he was active on the National Board of Directors, the Technion International Board of Governors and as a local leader. As Technion Guardians, he and his wife Lou's heartfelt devotion to Israel's youth and the future of science was evident in their establishment of SciTech: An International Summer Research Program for Talented High School Students at the Technion, which they have personally nurtured for many years. Their deep sense of commitment also included funding of the Harry J. Stern and Family Science and Technology Youth Center; the Harry J. and Lou Stern Laboratory for Nonlinear Optics in the Barbara and Norman Seiden New York Metropolitan Region Center for Advanced Optoelectronics; and support for the TELEM Project for tutoring in mathematics. Founder and chairman of Norca Industrial Company, LLC, Mr. Stern received both a Technion Honorary Doctorate (2000) and Honorary Fellowship (1996) for his visionary leadership. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Lou, children Russell, Kenneth and Susan, and the entire Stern family. American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Dr. Stephen A. Laser, President Evelyn Berger, Chairman of the Board Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Aaron Etra, Chairman, NY Metropolitan Region Joseph Huber, Director, NY Metropolitan Region
        STERN--Harry. North Shore Country Club records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Harry Stern. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Lou and his family. Peter J. Baum, President Stuart Bednoff, Secretary
        STERN--Harry J. A giant of a man who walked with kings is gone, but his footprint will be with me always. Eddie Rabinowitz
      