
        HAUSMAN--Leo. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System is saddened by the death of Leo Hausman of Manhattan and Hollywood, FL, a retired textile manufacturer, a life trustee of the Health System and one of the community-spirited leaders who came together to found Long Island Jewish Hospital, which opened in 1954. A generous supporter for more than a half-century, he continued to serve on the LIJ Board of Trustees and later the North Shore-LIJ Health System Board for the rest of his life. Mr. Hausman, a former executive with Belding Heminway & Co., was also active with United Cerebral Palsy of NYC, where he served as president and chairman. His late brother Jack was one of the founders of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. We extend our condolences to his family. Roy Zuckerberg, Chairman Michael Dowling President & CEO North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System
        HAUSMAN--Leo. Our sincere condolences to the Hausman family. For 21 years I had the pleasure of working with Leo in United Cerebral Palsy of New York City. For him, life was an adventure and a novelty. His work on behalf of disabled people in our city resulted in the construction and renovation of over 1 million sq ft of program space for cerebral palsied children and adults. In 1988, about 3,000 disabled people were served on a daily basis with an annual charitable budget of more than $50 million. These numbers are larger today. His legacy lives on in the lives of many disabled people and their families who are served by his unselfish dedication. Les Park, Chairman Disabled and Alone/ Life Services for the Handicapped
        HAUSMAN--Leo. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Leo Hausman, a cherished friend, who with his family expressed an unwavering commitment to the Jewish community around the globe. Leo was a founder of the Great Neck Division of UJAFederation and a leader for the cause of Russian Jewish emigres. We extend our deepest sympathies to his children, Martin and Jane; to his grandchildren; to his great-grandchildren; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        HAUSMAN--Leo. What a glorious man and what a glorious life. Leo saw health problems and tried all his life to not merely ameliorate those problems, but sought every possible method to eliminate them. He gave of his money. He gave of his time. But most importantly he gave of himself and enthused others to do the same. He was never satisfied with status quo. He was a rare human being: both a dreamer and a doer. I've spent over 20 years at his side and was always amazed at his energy, his drive and his gentleness. He will forever be missed. Jerome & Maxine Belson
        HAUSMAN--Leo. The Officers and the Board of United Cerebral Palsy of NYC note with deep sorrow the passing of our Board Chairman, Leo Hausman. Active in the organization since 1958, his guidance has led UCP/NYC to become the largest provider of health and program services for people with severe disabilities in New York City. We extend our sincere sympathy to his children, Martin and Helaine Hausman and Jane and Richard Karp, and their entire family. Edward R. Matthews Executive Director UCP of NYC, Inc.
        HAUSMAN--Leo. Leo, a very dear friend. Your spirit, generosity and love of people is an inspiration to all of us who were privileged to know you. Dear Leo, you will be sorely missed. Virginia Sloane Heckscher Foundation for Children
      