
        WEIN--Stewart. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stewart Wein, beloved father of Evan and Teri Wein, whose generosity on behalf of the New York Jewish community has touched the lives of so many. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        WEIN--Stewart. The Hochfelder, Cohen and Lerner families are all so saddened by the sudden loss of our dear Stewie. We will miss his company, charm, wit, smile and true compassion for others that made him such a treasure. Our heartfelt sympathies to his adoring wife Ina, and to his devoted children, Evan and Terri, and beautiful grandchildren Max, Julia, Nicholas and Lauren, as well as the entire Wein family. Our thoughts and prayers are with you, and we love you.
        WEIN--Stewart. We mourn the passing of our dear friend Stewart, devoted husband of Ina, loving father of Evan & Terri, Ilene & Adam, and Marc. Doting grandfather of nine who was so intimately involved in his grandchildren's lives. Stew lived a life devoted to family, friends and Torah. He was as a father to me and to so many. He will always be remembered by us. Leon & Marsha Wagner
        WEIN--Stewart. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Ina, his children Marc, Ilene, and Terri and Evan Wein and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Steven Chill, President Deborah Schiff, Chairman
        WEIN--Stewart A. ''A Giant of a man.'' You touched so many with your kindness, generosity, spirit, wit, love of teaching and Torah. Your memory will forever be in our hearts. Our deepest sympathies to your adoring wife, Ina, loving children and grandchildren. With much Love, The Hochberg and Friedman Families
        WEIN--Stewart. It is with great sadness that Congregation KTI mourns the death of Stewart Wein, our dedicated Officer and Board member, Hebrew School teacher, and ''daily minyanaire''. A devoted friend to so many, memories of his compassion, commitment, generosity and laughter will be a lasting tribute. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family.
        WEIN--Stewart. A friend, a teacher, and a wonderful example of what it is to be a mensch. Thank you for being a shining light in our lives. We will miss you. Much Love, Julie, Martin, Robert, Sam, Michael and Annabel Franklin
        WEIN -- Stewart. Stewart, you're a true mensch, teacher, loving father, grandfather, husband and friend. We will all miss you forever. We love you. The Brown and Schwartz Families
      