
        COGAN--Arrial Seelye. Age 74, died on March 9, 2004. Widow of the late James R. Cogan, she is survived by her children, Sarah E., George W. and Julia C. Finney, and nine grandchildren. Memorial service on Friday, March 12, at 4 PM at The Church of the Ascension, 5th Ave., and 10th St. For those who wish, contributions to Voices of Ascension, 12 W. 11th St., NY, NY 10011.
        COGAN--Arrial. We mourn the passing of Arrial Cogan, our trusted advisor and friend. Over many years, we have had the benefit of her intellect, her legal skill, her grace, and her judgment. She had a profound understanding of human nature, an unerring sense of fairness, and absolute integrity. She played an important role in all of our lives. We will miss her greatly and extend condolences to her family and to her colleagues at Seward & Kissel. Diane & Tom Smith Linda & Alan Englander Priscilla & Mike Wolfensohn Victoria & John McKenzie Sue K. Smith Lori Curley Julia & Dan Englander Kris Sebastian Prescott Investors
        COGAN--Arrial S. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Seward & Kissel LLP deeply mourn the untimely passing on March 9, 2004 of Arrial S. Cogan, our beloved partner and friend. Arrial was the head of the firm's Trust and Estate practice for over 35 years and her keen intellect, sage counsel and quiet grace will be profoundly missed by her many clients, colleagues and friends. We extend our sincerest condolences to her children, Sarah, George and Julia, and the entire family. Seward & Kissel LLP
        COGAN--Arrial. Partnership with Children, Inc. mourns the loss of our Honorary Board member and former Board of Directors President, Arrial Cogan--an extraordinary woman, friend and supporter. Our heartfelt condolences to her family and friends and colleagues. Allison Bodenmann, Pres. Board of Directors Michelle Sidrane, Exec. Dir.
        COGAN -- Arrial. Dearest friend, brilliant lawyer, elegant lady and now a shining star in our universe. Estelle Cohen
      