
        SADIN--Sam. On March 21. He is survived by his wife of 63 years, Terry Cooper Sadin, his sons Arthur and Robert, his grandson, Steven and Robert's companion Laura Pearlman. His much loved daughter, Madeline, died in 1970. Other surviving relatives include Anita and Dr. Gadiel Smith, Dan Cooper and his wife Doris Tanner, and Bea Sadin. His family, nieces, nephews, close cousins, many friends and colleagues, and the aides who lovingly cared for him for six years deeply mourn this remarkable man. He dedicated his life to causes for social justice from his student days at City College 23rd Street in the 30s. He served in World War II as a Captain in the Quartermaster Corps and after the war was an active member of the Jewish War Veterans. He ran a successful wholesale lumber business, Seaway Lumber. After the death of his daughter, he retired from the business and helped found the Institute on Law and Rights of Older People at the Brookdale Center on Aging of Hunter College. He was an active participant on the boards of many major organizations and advocacy groups. He supported the NY Quarterly poetry magazine and Greenwich House Pottery. In the 60's he was cochairman of the Interracial Council on Business Opportunity. He was a man of enormous generosity of spirit; thoughtful, charming, and witty. He dedicated his life to his family, his friends, and to a just and ethical society. His brilliance, sense of commitment, leadership and creative thinking helped enrich the lives of the elderly and of all who were fortunate to know him. Services 11 am, Monday, at Riverside Nassau North Chapel in Great Neck, opposite the LIRR station. The family will sit Shiva at 6 Peter Lane, New Hyde Park through Sunday, March 28. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be madeto the Sadin Law Institute, 425 E. 25th St, New York, NY 10010; Hospice Care Network, 900 Merchants Concourse, Westbury, NY 11590, or to a cause of one's choice.
        SADIN--Sam. Beloved friend, tireless advocate, compassionate voice for the rights of elders. You bore witness for justice and your work has lifted up the lives of thousands who came before you and who will come after you. We love you; we are all in your debt; and you are in our memory forever. Rick and Rose
      