
        EVANS--Dr. Jane. Born to the late James Harry Evans and Maybelle Holden Evans on October 31, 1907 passed away on March 24, 2004 after a year of illness. A woman of great intellect, integrity, and energy, who devoted herself to Jewish and philanthropic causes throughout her long and active life. Widely known as a distinguished national leader, a religious pacifist and an advocate for human rights and world peace. Dr. Evans was President of the Jewish Braille Institute, Executive Director of the National Federation of Temple Sisterhoods and a Life Honorary Officer of the World Union for Progressive Judaism. She was awarded an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters Degree from the Hebrew Union College Jewish Institute of Religion. A founder and former president of the Jewish Peace Fellowship, she was awarded the Abraham Joshua Heschel Award for peace work in the Jewish tradition. Named ''A Woman of Distinction in Religion'' by New York Governor Mario Cuomo as a result of her involvement in world affairs. An inventor, avid sports fan, boating enthusiast, art collector and animal lover. A cherished friend and revered colleague, Jane Evans will be deeply mourned. Funeral services will be held at Temple Israel of New Rochelle (1000 Pinebrook Boulevard, New Rochelle, New York) at 12:00 P.M. on Friday, March 26, 2004. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the Jewish Braille Institute, Women of Reform Judaism, Jewish Peace Fellowship, or Temple Israel of New Rochelle.
        EVANS--Jane. JBI International, formerly the Jewish Braille Institute, deeply mourns the passing at age 96 of our longtime Trustee and Honorary President, Dr. Jane Evans. Jane Evans joined the JBI board in 1933, 2 years after its inception, and served as president with extraordinary devotion and distinction from 1979 to 1993. Her commitment to improving the lives of the blind and visually impaired set an example to all her colleagues and friends--and they were legion. Dr. Evans exemplified the Jewish ideal of ''Tikkun Olam.'' We will all miss her very much. Barbara B. Friedman, President Dr. Ellen Isler, Executive Vice President Gerald M. Kass, E.V.P. Emeritus
        EVANS--Dr. Jane. The Union for Reform Judaism mourns with deep sorrow the passing of Dr. Jane Evans, 96, a dedicated leader of Reform Judaism since 1933. For more than seven decades, Dr. Evans lovingly and diligently devoted herself to the sacred work of our Movement. With quiet dignity, sound judgment and gentle guidance, she shaped Reform Judaism in countless ways and was a treasured colleague, mentor and friend. She will be missed. May her memory be for a blessing. Robert M. Heller, Chairman Rabbi Eric H. Yoffie, Pres.
        EVANS--Jane. Temple Israel of New Rochelle records with sorrow the death of its Honorary Trustee and devoted servant and extends its heartfelt sympathy to the family. Patricia Lampl, President Michael Z. Cahana, Rabbi
      