
        MAZZUCCA--Michael Lawrence, of Valley Cottage, NY, passed away Thursday, March 4, 2004 at the age of 60. Born in NYC on June 6, 1943, he was the son of Michael Alexander and Viola Piccolino Mazzucca. Mr. Mazzucca married Mary Driscoll on June 26, 1965 at St. Barnabas Church, Bronx, NY. He was the President of Regional Scaffolding & Hoisting Co., Inc. on Webster Ave. in the Bronx. Survived by his wife Mary and his loving children, Catherine McGrath, Paul Mazzucca and Daniel Mazzucca, and by his cherished grandchildren, Hannah, Ethan and Michael, and his sister, Lenore Gavigan. Friends may call Sunday and Monday March 7th and 8th, 24 and 7-9pm, at the familyowned and operated Joseph W. Sorce F.H. Inc., 728 W Nyack Rd., W. Nyack, NY 845358-4433. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held Tuesday, March 9th at 9:45am at St. Francis of Assisi Church. Interment Woodlawn Cemetery, Bronx. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in Michael's name to the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, 432 Park Ave. So., 15th Flr., NY NY 10016 (212) 689-2860 or to the Hudson Valley Council, Boy Scouts of America Endowment Fund, PO Box 374, Salisbury Mills, New York 12477.
        MAZZUCCA--Michael. The Boy Scouts of America, Greater New York Councils acknowledges the passing of Michael Mazzucca and extends its sympathy to his wife, Mary, children, Catherine, Paul and Daniel, and his many friends. As a member of the BSA for more than 30 years, he received many honors for his volunteer service including the Silver Beaver, the Whitney M. Young, Jr. Service Award and the George Meany AFL-CIO Award. He has served on the boards of three local councils of the BSA including the Bronx Council. In 1990 Mike was given The National Heroism Award for saving a life. Mike was a true friend who could always be counted on-even in the toughest of times. He will be greatly missed. John F. McGillicuddy, Pres. Daniel R. Gasparo, CEO Richard Martin, CEO--Bronx Council David Gingras, Bronx Council Commissioner
        MAZZUCCA--Michael. The Officers, Board of Directors, Staff and members of the Subcontractors Trade Association (STA) deeply mourn the untimely passing of Michael Mazzucca, a former President of our organization, a great industry leader, a good friend and a recipient of the organization's most distinguished award, ''Subcontractor of the Year'' in 1991 and a special award for ''Industry Leadership and Achievement'' in 2003. We will sorely miss his leadership and support. He will always be remembered as an icon and legend of our industry.
      