
        TISHMAN -- Margaret W., (Peggy), 84, passed away peacefully on Friday, March 5, 2004. Beloved wife of 62 years of the late Alan V. Tishman, who predeceased her by seven weeks. Darling mother of Peggy (Pat) T., the late David Henry Tishman and the late Virginia (Nina) Alexander. Adored grandmother of Adam and Laurie Bramwell, Margaret and David Doyle, and David and Lauren Alexander. Cherished mother-in-law of Richard Alexander and James Q. Hall. Beloved great-grandmother of Patrick, Christopher and Katharine Doyle. Loving sister-in-law of Robert V. Tishman and Virginia Meyerson. Also survived by many nieces, nephews and cousins. Mrs. Tishman served as the first president of United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies. A graduate of Wellesley College, she served on its Board of Trustees and was past president of its National Development Fund Council. Family will receive at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, at 1076 Madison Ave., on Sunday, March 7, 2004 between 4:00 and 7:00. Funeral services at Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 E. 79 St., on Monday, March 8, 2004, at 11 AM. The Shiva observance will be at the Tishman residence on Monday, March 8, 2004, from 6:00-9:00, and Tuesday, March 9, 2004, from 5:00-8:00. Interment private. Gifts to UJA-Federation, Wellesley College and the charity of your choice would be greatly appreciated.
        TISHMAN--Margaret (Peggy). The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are devastated by the loss of Peggy Tishman, a beloved leader and cherished friend, who strengthened our community through six decades of extraordinary service. As one of the first women in the nation to serve as president of a major federation, she set an inspiring standard for communal leadership. In 1986, she was among those who led our organization through the merger that established UJAFederation of New York. Through the years, Peggy was nationally recognized for her outstanding efforts on behalf of the Jewish community, and her tireless dedication to improving the plight of the low-income elderly. Peggy helped to established the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged and developed an endowments program to secure our community's future. She served as a board member of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Jewish Home and Hospital, and as president of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York. Through all of her endeavors, she shared a deep devotion to Jewish and humanitarian causes with her beloved late husband, Alan V. Tishman. In honoring a lifetime of service, our community will fondly remember Peggy's courage, honesty, and determination to bring people into the communal enterprise. We extend our deepest sympathies to Peggy's daughter, Pat Hall, and to the entire Tishman family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Executive V.P. and CEO
      