
        MINES -- Herbert. Herbert Mines died peacefully on March 5, 2004, after a long illness. He is loved and will be missed by his wife Barbara, his daughter Susan, and his grandchildren Laicy and Larry. He had a long and successful career in human resources and administration beginning at Macy's, Neiman Marcus and Revlon. In the early 80's, he founded Herbert Mines Associates, which is now one of the leading executive search firms in the country. He was involved in many charitable and community organizations, but his primary efforts were devoted to the American Jewish Committee where he served on the Executive Board. Funeral services will be at Larchmont Temple, time and date to be announced. Contributions should be to the charity of your choice or to the American Jewish Committee, 165 E. 56 St, New York, NY 10022.
        MINES -- Herbert T. The American Jewish Committee mourns with profound sadness the death of Herbert Mines, one of our most active and beloved officers. Herb was an inspirational leader, serving with distinction on the Executive Committee of AJC's Board of Governers, as Chair of Organizational Development, and on the steering committees of our International Relations and National Affairs Commissions. As a member of both our New York and Westchester chapters, he spearheaded innovative initiatives in intergroup relations and public policy that demonstrated a steadfast and principled commitment to opportunity for all. We were proud to honor Herb on both the national and local levels. In countless ways, this thoughtful, gentle and unassuming man epitomized the values and ideals of AJC. His abiding love for Israel, the Jewish people and social justice was evidenced in his lifetime of work for a more just and humane world for us all to share. Although we will greatly miss his warmth and generous spirit, we have been enriched for having known him. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to his wife Barbara, his children, grandchildren and the rest of the grieving family. Harold Tanner, President E. Robert Goodkind, Chair Board of Governors David A. Harris, Exec. Dir. Shulamith Bahat, Assoc. Exec. Dir.
        MINES--Herbert. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member and past President, Herbert Mines, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Alex C. Solowey, President
        MINES--Herb. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and mentor. Our hearts and prayers are with Barbara, Susan, Laicy and Larry. The Tropp Family
      