
        TISHMAN -- Margaret W., (Peggy) nee Westheimer, 84, passed away peacefully on Friday, March 5, 2004. Beloved wife of 62 years of the late Alan V. Tishman, who predeceased her by seven weeks. Darling mother of Peggy (Pat) T. Hall, the late David Henry Tishman and the late Virginia (Nina) Alexander. Adored grandmother of Adam and Laurie Bramwell, Margaret and David Doyle, and David and Lauren Alexander. Cherished mother-in-law of Richard Alexander and James Q. Hall. Beloved great-grandmother of Patrick, Christopher and Katharine Doyle. Loving sister-in-law of Robert V. Tishman and Virginia Meyerson. Also survived by many nieces, nephews and cousins. Mrs. Tishman served as the first president of United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies. A graduate of Wellesley College, she served on its Board of Trustees and was past president of its National Development Fund Council. Family will receive at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, at 1076 Madison Ave., on Sunday, March 7, 2004 between 4:00 and 7:00. Funeral services at Temple Shaaray Tefila, 250 E. 79 St., on Monday, March 8, 2004, at 11 AM. The Shiva observance will be at the Tishman residence on Monday, March 8, 2004, from 6:00-9:00, and Tuesday, March 9, 2004, from 5:00-8:00. Interment private. Gifts to UJA-Federation, Wellesley College and the charity of your choice would be greatly appreciated.
        TISHMAN--Margaret (Peggy). The Board, Faculty and Staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership deeply mourn the loss of our beloved and esteemed Board member, Peggy Tishman. She was such a special person, filled with wisdom, dedication and vision, and elegance and stature. Dedicated to the care and concern of humanity, she helped to make a remarkable difference at CLAL and throughout Jewish life. She was loved and respected by everyone. May her memory be a blessing and may her family find a place of comfort in her great legacy which will continue to live on. Thomas O. Katz, Chairman Rabbi Irwin Kula, President Donna M. Rosenthal, Executive Vice Chairman Rabbi Brad Hirschfield, Vice President
        TISHMAN -- Margaret W. (Peggy). The Board and Staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged (JASA) expresses its sorrow at the passing of Peggy Tishman. Mrs. Tishman served as a member of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies' Committee on Communal Planning, which recommended the establishment of JASA in 1967. This report led to the Federation Board's approval of the establishment of JASA in April 1968. We extend our condolences to Robert V. Tishman, founding Trustee and his daughter Trustee Dr. Nancy Gonchar, Mrs. Tishman's daughter and the entire Tishman family. David M. Warren, President Aileen Gitelson, CEO
        TISHMAN--Margaret (Peggy). We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear and inspiring Peggy, so soon after her husband Alan left us, and extend deepest sympathy to their daughter, Pat Hall, their grandchildren and greatgrandchildren, and to her enormous extended family. Her intelligence, determination, and elegance empowered legions of people to become involved in numerous charitable organizations and to give generously to them. She was truly a role model for all of us, in improving society and helping those less fortunate. We promise to carry on that tradition in Peggy and Alan's memory. John and Dan Tishman and Their Families
        TISHMAN--Margaret (Peggy). The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with great sorrow the death of Peggy Tishman. She was a devoted and visionary leader of the Jewish community. A past JBFCS honoree, with her late husband, Alan, Peggy Understood and was deeply committed to the mission and work of our agency. Peggy was admired and respected by all of us. We will miss her. Our deepest condolences to her family. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive VP and CEO
        TISHMAN--Margaret (Peggy). It is with great sadness that the trustees and staff of the NYC Police Foundation mourn the passing of our trustee emeritus, Peggy. From the Foundation's earliest days, Peggy was an innovative thinker and doer. Her diligence, charm and benevolence for more than 30 years will continue to inspire us. Our sincerest sympathies in this difficult time are extended to her family and we hope that the happy memories of her exemplary life and legendary good works will comfort them. George D. Benjamin Chairman Pamela D. Delaney, President
        TISHMAN--Margaret Peggy. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York mourn the death of a giant. Peggy was our third president (1983-1986). She used her wit, charm and extraordinary intelligence to bring disparate people together for the benefit of the Jewish community in New York and in Israel, and for her fellow New Yorkers. May her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ezra G. Levin, President Matthew Maryles, President-Elect Michael S. Miller, Exec. Vice President & CEO
        TISHMAN--Margaret (Peggy). The Board of Trustees, management and staff of The Jewish Home & Hospital Lifecare System mourn the passing of our beloved past Trustee and devoted friend. A true woman of valor, her name is synonymous with great works of philanthropy and loving kindness. The community has lost an extraordinary leader. We will miss her sage counsel. We extend our sincerest sympathies to her children, grandchildren and other family members. Fred M. Lowenfels Chairman of the Board Audrey S. Weiner, DSW President and CEO
        TISHMAN--Margaret (Peggy). The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of our friend and patron, Peggy Tishman. Devoted to the Jewish community, Peggy believed in the mission of the Y and was well known for her service to UJA-Federation. We will miss her dedication and enthusiasm. Our hearts and prayers are with her and her family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Michael Goldstein, President Matthew Bronfman, Chair Sol Adler, Exec Director
        TISHMAN--Margaret (Peggy). It is with great sadness that we mourn the passing of Peggy. Our deepest sympathy to her cherished daughter, Pat. Our sincerest condolences to her beloved grandchildren, Lauren, David, and son-in-law Richard Alexander and the entire Tishman family. Peggy was an extraordinary woman who enriched everyone's lives she touched. May they carry the strength of her love with them always. Abby, Alex, Andrew, Ashley and the Modell Family
        TISHMAN--Margaret (Peggy). We mourn the loss of a dear family friend, Margaret (Peggy) Tishman, who always inspired us with her strength, determination and elegance. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Pat Hall and her family, Jim, Adam and Margaret, as well as to the family of the late Virginia (Nina) Alexander, Dick, David and Lauren. Lynn and Martin Halbfinger
        TISHMAN -- Margaret. We mourn the loss of our distinguished member, friend, and advisor, Peggy Tishman, and extend sincere condolences to her entire family. Geriatrics Advisory Council Albert L. Siu, MD, MSPH Ellen & Howard C. Katz Chairman's Chair, Brookdale Dept. of Geriatrics & Adult Development Mt. Sinai School of Medicine
        TISHMAN--Margaret (Peggy). On behalf of the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 1095 Park Ave. Corp we extend our sincerest sympathies to the family of Peggy Tishman, a longtime resident and advisor to the Board. She will be greatly missed by all who knew her.
        TISHMAN -- Margaret. The Women's Forum records with deep sorrow the death of longtime member, Peggy Tishman, and extends condolences to her daughter and family. Dede Bartlett, President Women's Forum, Inc.
      