
        FURMAN--Carol M. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband Robert, her children and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President
        FURMAN--Carol. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Carol, a woman of strength, intelligence, compassion and boundless love for her daughters, husband and grandchildren. She will always be in our hearts and we are grateful for our many years of friendship. Karen and Howard Sherman Eileen and Leon Genet Jessica and Stanley Shapiro
        FURMAN--Carol. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Carol Furman, a valued member of ADL's Women's Division. We extend our sincere condolences to her husband Robert and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        FURMAN--Carol. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Robert, her son Matthew and daughter-in-law Judy. Ronald M. Stuart, President Joyce Baumgarten, Sec'y
        FURMAN--Carol. To my best friend Carol, a jewel to all who knew her. A person of great warmth and generosity who cared deeply for her family and friends. My heartfelt sympathies to her daughters Debbie and Patti and her husband Bob. Susan
        FURMAN--Carol. To our beloved friend, a Superwoman, you will be in our hearts forever and we will miss you so much. Our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Sandy, Kevin, Jaime and Lauren Zeluck Rest in peace.
        FURMAN--Carol. We miss you, your smile, your love, your daily phone calls. You will always be a part of us. Rest in peace. Debbie, Patti, Billy Natalie and Jared
        FURMAN--Carol. A courageous lady who will be missed by family and friends. Our heartfelt sympathies to Bob, Patti, Debbie and Billy. Rosalie and Aaron
        FURMAN--Carol. ''My oldest friend,'' my greatest inspiration. Your love and laughter will remain forever in my heart. Barbara Silver
        FURMAN--Carol. Goodbye, Mommy. We will always love you, now you are our special angel. Debbie and Patti
        FURMAN--Carol. We love you. Condolences to Bob and the family. Patti and Herb Frumkes
      