
        BERNSTEIN--Harold P., on March 21, 2004, of Palm Beach, FL and Cove Neck, LI. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Gene and Pam Bernstein, Jay and Jill Bernstein, Donna Bernstein, Linda and Tony Rubin, Matthew and Natalie Bernstein, Josh and Joann Lipman, Dorian Lipman and Ann Louise Lipman. Loving grandfather of Jennifer, Mindy and Marc, Juli, Samantha, Jamie, Samuel, Jacob, Gena, Justin, Adam, Brooke and Rory. Cherished great-grandfather of Eliza. Services Wednesday, 1:30 PM, at Temple Sinai, 425 Roslyn Road, Roslyn Heights, Long Island. Interment Beth Moses Cemetery, Pinelawn, New York.
        BERNSTEIN--Harold. For 50 years, through 4 generations, our families were part of each others lives. He always carried himself with dignity, immaculately dressed, quietly incisive and deeply responsive to everyone's personal needs. Next to the definition of ''charitable'' in any thesaurus is his name in bold print. Community leader, Synagogue president, lynchpin of every charity imaginable. His presence was sought not only for its donative capacity but for his intellectual acumen. He was charismatic, charming, forceful and caring. His presence will be both always with us and missed. Our condolences to his wife, children and grandchildren. The Dolgin Family
        BERNSTEIN--Harold. Harold, we have lost a great friend and father. Your spirit and guidance have enriched our lives and will live on within all of us. A special human being, always giving to others, lending a kind thought. A teacher and mentor, a prince and gentleman, who taught us what true friendship is all about. We will never forget you. The Sanders Family
        BERNSTEIN -- Harold. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Harold Bernstein. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Helen, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary
        BERNSTEIN -- Harold. We mourn the passing of a dear lifelong friend. Loving, caring, compassionate. He will be in our hearts forever. Our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved Helen and the entire extended Bernstein family. Wally and Marilyn Schlessel
        BERNSTEIN -- Harold. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and Past President and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President
        BERNSTEIN -- Harold. We shall miss our dear friend Harold. His warmth and sincerity was an inspiration to all who knew him. Our condolences to Helen and the entire Bernstein family. Terry and Seymour Sobel
      