
        ADAMSON--Arthur Learoyd II, respected businessman, sailor, sportsman and civic leader, passed away from heart failure following hip surgery on February 2. Lea was 90 years old and lived at his home on the Shrewsbury River in Rumson, NJ. A Princeton Phi Beta Kappa and Harvard Law School graduate, Lea and the Signal Corps team he served with during World War II founded Electronics Associates, Inc. to build analog computers. As Executive Vice President, and later President, he helped grow EAI from a small startup to a large manufacturing company with a listing on the New York Stock Exchange. He served as Pack Leader of the local Cub Scouts and was President of the Board of Education during the 1950's and 60's, leading the successful campaign to combine the local high schools into the Rumson Fair Haven Regional High School. An active sailor, he was Commodore of the Shrewsbury Sailing and Yacht Club, as well as longtime member of the New York Yacht Club. His yacht ''Wing II,'' which he raced for many years, was one of the first Cal-40 racing sloops on the east coast. He is also a founding member of the ''Polly's Pond Sailing Association,'' a group of fun-loving sailors which grew over 45 years to include three generations. A founder of Wayside Skeet Club, he won the state skeet shooting championship in 1964 and helped coach teams at Fort Monmouth and the Lawrenceville School. A member of the Sea Bright Beach Club and the Navesink Country Club, Lea was an avid golfer, playing rain or shine, summer and winter well into his 80's, when he claims to have finally shot his age. He is the husband of the late Martha Adamson, father of Lee, Nick, Jim, and the late Robert, the brother of Catherine Montgomery and the late Cassel Adamson, and the grandfather of Terry Adamson and Robert Musser. We will all miss him, his logic and ability to best in argument anyone foolish enough to engage him. A memorial service will be held at 11:00 am on March 27 at St. George's by-the-River in Rumson.
      