
        CULLMAN -- Joan Paley Straus. The Board and Staff of National Dance Institute mourn the passing of arts advocate, visionary producer and philanthropist Joan Cullman, mother of our Associate Artistic Director and Board member Tracy Straus. NDI joins the numerous arts organizations and artists whose work she helped make possible in remembering and celebrating her life. We extend our sincere sympathy to her beloved family. Elliott Slade and Diane Volk Co-Chairmen Jacques D'Amboise, Founder Ellen Weinstein Artistic Director Lesli Kapell Executive Director
        CULLMAN -- Joan Paley Straus. The Artists, Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are dismayed by the grievous news of the untimely death of our extraordinary Vice Chairman. Joan has been a powerful force in the re-creation of this theater, a devoted Trustee whose passionate advocacy and irresistible charm advanced the cause of the theater at every opportunity. We miss her so much and wish succor and comfort to beloved Joe, Tracy and Barney. John B. Beinecke, Chairman John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop, Artistic Dir. Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer
        CULLMAN--Joan. We wish to express our deepest and profound sadness on the passing of our dear friend, Joan Cullman, a person of great stature and achievement in her love of the theater and the arts. Joan was the beloved wife of our special friend and esteemed trustee, Joseph Cullman, III. Our hearts and prayers are with him. The members of the Board of Trustees of the Silver Shield Foundation express our deepest sympathy to the extended Cullman family. James E. Fuchs, President Silver Shield Foundation
        CULLMAN--Joan. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of our esteemed congregant, Honorary Trustee and former Board member, Joan Cullman, beloved and devoted wife of Joseph Cullman 3rd, co-chair of our Honorary Board. We extend our deepest condolences to Joseph and the family. May her memory be for a blessing. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        CULLMAN--Joan Straus. The measurement of a meaningful life is to live it to the fullest--you certainly did it your way. We are truly the lucky ones to have shared your life through our daughter Nancy and our wonderful son-in-law Barney Straus, Jr., and of course our grandchild Graham. Our heartfelt condolences to Joe, Tracy and Leon. Mimi and Alan Bercow
        CULLMAN--Joan. We are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our neighbor and dear friend Joan Cullman. A vital member of our community, we will miss her warm smile and her elegant presence. Our deepest condolences to Joe and the family. The 19 East 72nd St Corp Cary A. Koplin, President
        CULLMAN--Joan P. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of Joan Cullman, wife of fellow member and golfer Joseph F. Cullman, III. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to Joe and the Cullman family. Robert E. Morrow, President Harvey L. Radler, Secretary
      