
        ROSENTHAL--John P. On March 27, 2004 in LaQuinta, CA at age 71. Cherished husband of Jacqueline. Loving father of John Paul, Jr., Laura Riese and her husband Jeff, Ronald Rothstein and his wife Karyn and Lisa Rosenthal. Adoring grandfather of Allison, Marina and Jordan. Dear brother of Peter and his wife Frances, Professor Mary Lefkowitz and her husband Hugh and Patricia Ross and her husband Paul. Devoted sonin-law of Jessica Cone. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday, March 31st, 7-9 PM. Services Thursday, April 1st, 11:30 AM, at Temple EmanuEl, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street. Contributions in his memory may be made to the 92nd Street YMYWHA.
        ROSENTHAL--John P. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn with a heavy heart the passing of John Rosenthal, our beloved Board member of 36 years and a former president. No organization could have a more devoted friend and supporter. John's warmth, intelligence and sincerity made him a most admired and beloved colleague and friend. For three generations, the Y was privileged to serve as the Rosenthal family's community and cultural center. We will deeply miss John's enthusiasm for all the Y does-in particular, the lectures, poetry readings and concerts he enjoyed so much. A longtime major benefactor of the 92nd Street Y, John was a founder of the Milstein/ Rosenthal Center for Media & Technology, enabling his vision of the Y as the first cultural center to broadcast its programs nationally and internationally a reality. Our hearts and prayers go out to his wife Jacqueline, his children John Paul Jr., Laura Reise and her husband Jeff, Ronald Rothstein and his wife Karyn, and Lisa Rosenthal, and his three grandchildren Allison, Marina and Jordan, and the rest of his family. While John's passing leaves an enormous void, he will live on in the hearts and minds of those who were blessed to know him. Michael Goldstein, President Matthew Bronfman, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        ROSENTHAL--John. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of John Rosenthal, a cherished friend who expressed an unwavering commitment to the New York Jewish community. John was a member of the board of directors of UJA-Federation and a past president of the 92nd Street Y. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife Jacqueline; to his children, John Paul Jr, Laura, Lisa, and Ronald; to his grandchildren; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        ROSENTHAL--John P. The National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression (NARSAD) mourns the passing of a Founding Director and longtime friend and supporter of our brain and behavior research. His work with our organization demonstrated his strong conviction that scientific research could overcome the disabilities of mental disorders. To his wife, Jacqueline, and his entire family, we extend our deepest sympathies. Constance E. Lieber, Pres.
        ROSENTHAL--John P. The Board of Directors and Shareholders of ElevenTwelve Corporation are terribly saddened to learn of the passing of our esteemed neighbor, John P. Rosenthal. John was the longest serving member of our Board of Directors and had been Treasurer of the Corporation for more than twenty-five years. His wisdom and friendship will be sorely missed by all of us. To his wife, Jackie, and to all the member of his family, our sincere condolences.
        ROSENTHAL--John P. It is with the most profound sorrow that we note the sudden passing of our beloved partner and close friend, John P. Rosenthal. His interest, advice and mentoring to all of us was constantly sought and always promptly and freely given. We loved him very much and he will be sorely missed. Our hearts go out to Jackie, Laura, Ron, Lisa, John Paul and his three grandchildren. Jon M. Burnham, on behalf of Burnham Financial Group
        ROSENTHAL--John. Partner, friend, mentor, philanthropist and extraordinary human being. He achieved unrivaled success in the game of life. We will miss his wisdom, his passion, his caring, his generosity and his sense of humility. He was one of a kind and we are everlastingly grateful to have had him in our lives. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Jackie and his entire family on their loss. He will be missed by all who knew him. Allyson, Andrew, Samson & Jonah Wiener
        ROSENTHAL--John. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, John Rosenthal. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Jackie, and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard J. Bronstein, Secy
        ROSENTHAL--John P. Our deepest sympathies to Jacqueline and family for the tragic loss of our devoted member and friend. NAMI-NYC Metro Charlotte Fischman, Pres Evelyn Roberts, Exec Dir
      