
        GARVEY--Dr. Glenda J. Died on Monday, March 22. Esteemed and beloved Professor of Medicine at Columbia University for nearly three decades. Survived by her brother Dr. Thomas Q. Garvey III, sister-in-law Dr. Carol Garvey, and nephew Dr. Thomas Q. Garvey IV. Funeral Mass Friday at 11 AM, St. Ignatius Loyola Church, 980 Park Ave at 83rd. Memorial contributions should be sent to Glenda Garvey Academy of Medical Education, C/O Dean's Office, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, 630 West 168th St., New York, NY 10032.
        GARVEY--Glenda, M.D. The faculty, staff, students, and alumni of the College of Physicians & Surgeons of Columbia University mourn the death of Glenda Garvey, a consummate clinician, teacher, and alumnus at the medical center for nearly 40 years. She graduated from the medical school in 1969, then pursued residency and fellowship training at Presbyterian Hospital before joining the medical faculty. At the time of her death she was professor of clinical medicine and a legendary figure in the halls of the medical school, loved by students and colleagues alike. She served Columbia and the medical school in many capacities, building a legacy that will continue in the new Glenda Garvey Academy of Medical Education. She influenced generations of medical students and the academy will ensure that the standards she taught through formal educational methods and through example will continue through future generations. Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D. Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine Columbia University Medical Center
        GARVEY--Glenda, M.D. It is with great sadness that we acknowledge the death of our esteemed colleague, teacher and mentor. Glenda was the epitome of the physicianscholar; elegant, erudite and at the same time incredibly warm and concerned about her patients, colleagues, and above all, her students. Fortunately, we were all her students, benefitting not only from her vast clinical experience, but also from her profound intellectual curiosity and desire to learn as well as teach. We will miss her wise insights and thoughtful advice. Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases, Columbia University, College of Physicians & Surgeons New York, New York
        GARVEY--Glenda, M.D. The Division of Infectious Diseases at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons and the NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital deeply mourns the loss of Dr. Glenda Garvey, who for decades set a standard for the care of patients and the teaching of students, residents, and fellows that is unparalleled in our history. She exemplified what it truly means to be a physician and was the heart, soul, and conscience of our Division. We will miss her terribly and wish to extend our deepest sympathies to her family. Scott M. Hammer, M.D. Division of Infectious Diseases Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        GARVEY--Glenda J., M.D. The Class of 1969 of Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons mourns the loss of our classmate, an exemplary physician, beloved teacher and loyal friend. We extend our sympathy to her brother, Dr. Thomas Garvey, to her sister-in-law, our classmate, Dr. Carol Wilson Garvey, and to her nephew, Dr. Thomas Garvey IV, and his family.
      