
        MACIAG--Thomas, PhD., internationally recognized molecular and cell biologist, died March 8, 2004 in Freeport, ME, at 57. Dr. Maciag was a scientist of the highest distinction, with extraordinary intellect, keen insight and an artist's vision of how complex biological systems work. He made seminal contributions in angiogenesis. His discovery of fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) led him to be the first to propagate human endothelial cells in vitro for long periods of time and to identify many genes for angiogenic behavior. The generation of scientists he mentored in the fields of angiogenesis, growth factor biology, proteases, cell growth and development were profoundly affected by his aggressive and fearless approach to science. Born in 1946 in Bayonne, NJ, he earned a B.A. from Rutgers University in 1968, and served in the U.S. Army Medical Corps from 1969 to 1971. He earned his Ph.D. in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry from the University of Pennsylvania in 1975 and did postdoctoral study there. Highlights from his career include appointment as Assistant Professor of Pathology, Harvard Medical School in 1980 and work as Head of the Department of Molecular Biology, American Red Cross, Rockville, MD with teaching at George Washington University. In 1997 he accepted the challenge to establish the Center for Molecular Medicine at Maine Medical Center Research Institute (MMCRI). NIH recognized his success with an $11 million award for a Center of Biomedical Research Excellence in angiogenesis. Dr. Maciag was Scientific Director of MMCRI and Presidential Professor of the Biomedical Sciences, University of Maine. He published over 150 scientific articles, earned many patents, and received numerous awards for his contributions to science. He was an accomplished artist whose interpretations of cellular function were featured on the covers of scientific journals. Tom is survived by his wife, Lorrie, and son, Andrei, of Freeport, ME, his parents, Edward and Agnes Maciag, and sister, Arlene Arzulowicz, of Sommerville, NJ. A memorial service will be held at MMCRI, Scarborough, ME, March 26, 2004, 2-5 P.M. In lieu of flowers, the Maciag Family requests donations to the Thomas Maciag Memorial Fund, C/O Maine Medical Center Development Dept., 22 Bramhall St., Portland, ME 04102.
      