
        LEWIS--Sherman R. Jr., on March 11, 2004, at age 67. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Loving father of Thomas, Catherine, Elizabeth and Michael and grandfather of Olivia and Riley. Dear brother of Robin and Randal. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday 2-5 and 79pm. Funeral services at Brick Presbyterian Church, Park Avenue at 92 Street, Tuesday 10:30am. Interment private.
        LEWIS--Sherman R., Jr., 67 of Manhattan, New York, died March 11, 2004. Mr. Lewis was a vice chairman and international investment banker at Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. Throughout his 30-year career at Lehman Brothers, he held numerous senior positions, including partner in the Corporate Finance Department at Loeb Rhoades & Co., a predecessor firm of Lehman Brothers, and, after Loeb Rhoades was acquired by Shearson Hayden Stone, Mr. Lewis was named president. Born in Ottawa, IL, Mr. Lewis was a graduate of Northwestern University and the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business Administration. He served on the President's Commission on Housing and the President's Council for International Youth Exchange during the Reagan administration. He was a University Trustee, a founding member and past Chairman of the Board of Visitors of the College of Arts and Sciences and a former Alumni Regent at Northwestern University. Mr. Lewis was also a member of the Advisory Council to the Graduate School of Business at the University of Chicago. In addition, Mr. Lewis served as a member of the Board of Directors of the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, the U.S.-Japan Business Council, The Korea Society, The U.S.Greece Business Council, Euro-Amer Holding S.A., Infraworks Corporation and was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Marine Corps Heritage Center Founders' Group. Mr. Lewis served in the United States Marine Corps and was a commissioned officer on active duty from 1958 to 1961. He is survived by his devoted wife of 37 years, Dorothy, and by his beloved children, Thomas, Catherine, Elizabeth, and Michael, and cherished granddaughters Olivia and Riley, and brothers Robin and Randal. Calling hours are from 2:00-5:00 p.m. and 7:009:00 p.m. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave., in New York City, on Monday, March 15. The funeral service will be held on Tuesday, March 16 at 10:30 a.m. at the Brick Presbyterian Church, 1140 Park Ave. at 91st St. Contributions can be made to the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, P.O. Box 19024, J5-200, Seattle, WA 98109 to Dr. Rainer Storb's research in memory of Sherman R. Lewis, Jr. or Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Ave., New York, NY 10021 to Dr. Mark Heaney's research in memory of Sherman R. Lewis, attention Jennifer Jacobson, Development Office.
        LEWIS--Sherman R. With great sorrow, Lehman Brothers mourns the passing of our trusted and respected colleague and dear friend, of over 30 years, Sherman R. Lewis, Jr. Mr. Lewis held a number of senior positions at Lehman Brothers, including Vice Chairman and Director of the firm. A beloved friend and partner, he carried with him, in both his career and his life, the highest level of professionalism, loyalty, ethics, generosity, and, above all kindness. His keen intellect and sage counsel will always be remembered by his clients, colleagues, and friends. A remarkable man, he served as an inspiring teacher, mentor, humanitarian, and role model. He will be profoundly missed by all who had the privilege to have known him. We extend our deepest sympathy and prayers to his wife Dorothy, his four children, and two granddaughters. Richard S. Fuld, Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Joseph M. Gregory, Chief Operating Officer Bradley H. Jack, Chief Operating Officer
        LEWIS--Sherman R., Jr. A valued friend whose sense of honor, credibility, and integrity is an inspiration to all of us who were fortunate to know him. We are saddened by this great loss, and our deepest sympathies go out to his wife, Dorothy, and his family. Kathleen and Richard S. Fuld, Jr.
        LEWIS--Sherman R., Jr. Our dear friend, neighbor and esteemed Board member. A man who exemplified integrity, leadership and guidance, whose friendship will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to Dorothy and the entire family. Linda and Dennis Herman
        LEWIS--Sherman R., Jr. We are devastated by the loss of an irreplaceable, true and kind gentleman. We will miss Sherman as will all those privileged to know him and call him a friend. Our heartfelt condolences to Dorothy and the entire Lewis Family. Fran and Ed Kittredge
        LEWIS--Sherman R. Jr. The members of the Wall Street Fantasy Football League mourn the passing of our beloved and respected colleague and friend. His spirit and camaraderie will be missed and never forgotten.
      