
        LEVITAN -- Judith Morley (nee Renee Greenfield). Born April 29, 1923, died at home March 28, 2004. Beloved wife for 56 years of David M. Levitan, mother of Barbara and Stuart, daughter of Ada Wolpert and Andrew Greenfield, sister of Daniel Morley and Janice Weiss, beloved friend, mentor and confidant of all who knew her. A longtime resident of Glen Head and Roslyn Harbor, L.I., she recently divided her time between Manhattan and Deerfield Beach, FL. Proud holder of a B.A., University of Miami; M.A., International College; and Ph.D., William Lyon University. Her career included the Committee for a Free Palestine, where she met her husband, David; broadcaster for Voice of America and NBC; theater as actor, playwright and producer; 50-year member of Actors' Equity; Democratic Party State Committeewoman; Dromenon Society; Jean Houston's Mystery School. A volume of collected poetry, Miss Laughinghouse and the Reluctant Mystic, was published in 1995. Services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St & Amsterdam Ave, Wednesday, March 31, 1:30pm, interment following at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, Queens. In lieu of flowers, please make contributions to The Nature Conservancy, Long Island Chapter.
        LEVITAN--Judith. Our entire American Friends family is heartbroken over the loss of Judy Levitan, our very good friend and beloved wife of our Executive Committee member, David Levitan. Judy was always a heartfelt friend of The Open University and brightened our gala events with her ever-present smile. She was an esteemed author of arts and letters and generously contributed her works and collections to the new library of The Open University of Israel in Raanana. Our prayers are with the Levitan family. May her memory be for a blessing. Irwin Hochberg, Chairman Irving M. Rosenbaum, Chair Emeritus Eric G. Heffler, Executive VP American Friends of The Open University of Israel
        LEVITAN--Judith. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband, David, and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President
      