
        HERMAN--Howard R. Most beloved and loving husband of Arline. Devoted father of Joshua and Melissa Herman, and Rachel and Andrew Scheff. Adored grandfather of Matthew and Lauren Scheff, and Dylan and Olivia Herman. Beloved brother of Lovey and Murray Beer, Paul and Malka Herman, and Alan and Sandra Rubin. Devoted son-in-law of Pauline Rubin. Loved by his nephews, nieces and their children. Devoted son of the late Murry and Mickey Herman, and devoted son-in-law of the late Judge Charles Rubin. Funeral services will take place Wednesday, March 31st, 10AM at the Fair Lawn Jewish Center, Fair Lawn, New Jersey. Shiva will be observed at home. Contributions in Howard's name can be made to the Fair Lawn Jewish Center or to Hackensack University Medical Center.
        HERMAN--Howard R. Daddy, Grandpa, your joyful life was a gift to us. We will forever treasure every moment we laughed with delight together. We will carry your love with us always. Rachel, Andy, Matthew, Lauren, Josh, Melissa, Dylan & Olivia
        HERMAN--Howard R. The staff and tenants of the Fifth Avenue Jewelers Exchange express their sincere sympathy to the family of Howard R. Herman, a real ''gem'' of a man. We will miss him forever.
        HERMAN--Howard R. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and employer. He was a pillar of 47th Street and he will be sorely missed. Midtown Vault Corp.
        HERMAN--Howard R. My dearest love, I have been in heaven with you for 42 years. Always, Your Love
        HERMAN--Howard R. Howard R. Herman, a well known and respected jeweler in New York's Diamond District passed away on Monday, March 29, 2004. He will be deeply missed. His integrity, charisma and fairness in the world of jewelry and diamonds are attributes very few men possessed. Howard served as the president of the 47th Street Business Improvement District since its inception in 1997. Under his leadership, the organization successfully worked to positively publicize the Diamond District and improve the economic climate. Howard worked tirelessly in his role as president and helped bring together various parts of the diamond and jewelry industry to the common goal of making the Diamond District the best place to shop for jewelry in the world. His love of the Diamond District serves as an inspiration to the members of the 47th Street Business Improvement District, and the jewelry industry. We will profoundly miss his presence, guidance and leadership. The 47th Street Business Improvement District expresses its deepest sympathy to the Herman family.
        HERMAN--Howard R. ''Now cracks a noble heart. Goodnight, sweet prince, And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.'' We are deeply shaken and saddened by the passing of this vibrant, sweet and honest mensch, the twin brother of Paul, our very wonderful and beloved partner for over 30 years. Howard's joie de vivre, deeds of derring-do, positive outlook on life, lovingkindness towards all and ''maaseem tovim'' will always live on in the hearts and minds of all who were fortunate enough to come to know the quality of this fine man, most particularly, Howard's children and grandchildren. We grieve along with Arline, Joshua and Melissa, Rachel and Andrew, their children and the entire Herman family and send to each our heartfelt and sincere condolences. Herrick, Feinstein LLP
        HERMAN--Howard. Our heartfelt sympathy to the family of Howard Herman OBM. Radio City Synagogue pays tribute to our devoted President and friend Howard Herman OBM for his dedication, devotion and zealous concern for the welfare of our Congregation. He was a man for all seasons. Howard's tireless efforts on behalf of worthy causes, our people, Yidishkeit and Torah values, assures him an honorable place in his heavenly abode. He graced our lives with pride and delight and will be missed by family, friends and all who knew him. Rabbi Jonah Weinberg Rabbi Moshe Weinberg and the entire Congregation
        HERMAN--Howard. JBI International, formerly the Jewish Braille Institute, is saddened by the passing of the brother of our esteemed Trustee and Officer, Paul Herman. Our heartfelt thoughts and condolences are with the family during this time of sorrow. We pray that his memory will endure as a continuing blessing and inspiration to the entire family. Barbara B. Friedman, President Dr. Ellen Isler, Executive Vice President
        HERMAN--Howard R. We will miss the smile, the jokes and, most of all, the warmth and love that Howard gave with a full heart. Our love and friendship will last forever. Our deepest sympathies to Arline, Josh and Melissa, Rachel and Andy, grandchildren and family. He will be missed by all who knew him. Leslie and Barbara Dubs and family
        HERMAN--Howard R. To our Uncle Howard, you will always live in our hearts. It has been our great fortune to have your humor, generous spirit, love of family, heartfulness, and unmatched character in our lives. We love you forever. All your nieces and nephews
        HERMAN--Howard R. Our beloved Uncle Howard always spiced up life with jokes and Tabasco sauce. Uncle Howard's animated stories of family lore wove together five generations. His memory inspires us to make every day full of fireworks. Murry & Tali
        HERMAN--Howard. Warm and wonderful, his enthusiasm for life was unparalleled. We will miss his sparkle. Lucille and Mike, Aimee and Marvin, Melissa and Greg
        HERMAN--Howard R. A most loving, kind and generous human being. We will miss our dear friend enormously. Carol and Bob Berliner
      