
        RESTOUT--Denise Theresa. 88, of 63 Millerton Rd, died Tuesday, at the St. Francis Medical Center in Hartford, CT. She was born November 24, 1915, in Paris, France, daughter of the late Fernand and Julitte (Frangois) Restout. Miss Restout has been a resident of the United States since 1941. She arrived in America December 7, 1941, through Ellis Island, accompanied by her mentor Wanda Landowska, and became a naturalized citizen in 1961. She received a Certificate of Primary Studies with honors from the public schools in Paris, and then had five years of private tutoring. She studied drawing, geometry, history of arts, and painting at the Bazot Studios in Paris, and was admitted to the school of Applied Arts of the City of Paris in 1928. Miss Restout also received the Frist Medal of the National Conservatory of Music (Paris) in 1930, and studied piano, harmony, counterpoint, musicology, voice and organ with expert teachers, and harpsicord, along with keyboard repertoire of the 15th and 18th centuries, with the noted Wanda Landowska, beginning in 1933. As a performer, Miss Restout gave numerous appearances as a harpsicord soloist at the Landowska's Public Master Classes in France and the Netherlands; recitals in Paris, Strausbourg, and elsewhere. From 1935 to 1959 she was Landowska's only assistant. She also taught piano and harpsicord at the Brooklyn School of Music for two years and at the Barlow School in Amenia, NY, for five years. Miss Restout was a member at large of the faculties of Peabody Institute, Hartt College of Music, Southern University of Mississippi, Purchase College, and others. She lectured in Connecticut and New York between 1960 and 1969. She and Madame Landowska recorded a Bach Concerto together. She was a member of the French and American Musicological Societies, American Federation of Musicians, American Guild of Organists, and the 1961 and 1981 Juries of the Johann Sebastian Bach International Competitions (of which she is an honory patron). She served St. Mary's Church as the secretary of the parish council, a religious instructor, and organist. She was honored with the ''Amicus Poloniae'' Citation. A Mass of Christian Burial was offered on Saturday, March 13, 2004, at St. Mary's Church, Lakeville, CT. Bishop Peter A. Rosazza was the principal celebrant. There are no calling hours. Burial will be in St. Mary's Cemetery in the spring. Memorial donations may be sent to Father Forte Scholarship Fund, in care of Church of St. Mary, 76 Sharon Rd, Lakeville, CT 06039. For information contact Newkirk-Palmer Funeral Home, 118 Main St, North Canann, CT 06018.
      