
        SEIDLER--Lynn. With profound sadness her family announces that Lynn passed away peacefully March 18, 2004 of lung cancer. She died doing her heart's desire, traveling with her beloved husband of 45 years, Lee. She was the loving daughter of William Lopatin and stepdaughter of Joan. The cherished mother of Laurie, the respected mother-in-law of Maurice and the doting grandmother of Isaac. We will miss her strength, guidance, warmth and wit. Services Thursday, March 25 at Temple Shalom, 122 Kent Road, New Milford, CT. Donations in lieu of flowers to the Multiple Sclerosis Research & Treatment Center at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital, 425 W. 59th St., Suite 7C, NY, NY 10019.
        SEIDLER--Lynn. The Board and staff of The Shubert Foundation are deeply saddened by the loss of Lynn Seidler, our longtime Executive Director. Her exceptional vision and dedication were instrumental in the development of The Foundation as a leading supporter of not-forprofit theatre and dance companies in America. Lynn was also the motivating force behind the establishment of The Shubert Archive, which has become one of the foremost theatre research institutions in the country. She will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathy to our dear friend and Board member, Lee, daughter, Laurie, and grandson, Isaac. Gerald Schoenfeld, Chairman Michael I. Sovern, President Vicki Reiss, Exec. Director The Shubert Foundation
        SEIDLER--Lynn. In celebrating the life of Lynn Seidler, the entire medical, professional and administrative staffs of the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Multiple Sclerosis Research & Treatment Center join their Advisory Board of Trustees in thankfulness to her for her courageous example and unfaltering support of our efforts to explore the secrets of MS. With her help and sage counsel we have been able to plumb the mysteries of this disease. With her as an example we have also been able to push towards the frontier of a great medical mystery. We shall miss her with a profound sense of loss, but also with fond memories of her bravery, indomitable spirit and down-to-earth wisdom. Dr. Saud Sadiq, Director
        SEIDLER--Lynn. A good friend who taught us how to live life. We will miss her. Steven, Ina, David and Daniel Tay
      