
        ANGELILLI--Josephine. We offer our deepest sympathy and sincere condolences to the President of our company, Arlene & Peter Angelilli for the loss of their mother. Our hearts go out to her husband Professor Frank Angell, her daughter Marietta Schiff & husband Larry Schiff, her grandchildren Lauren Angelilli & Jeffrey Preston, Allison Angelilli & Evan Boulukos, Jonathan Angelilli, Kristen Angelilli, Bradley Schiff & Jennifer Roff, James Schiff, Elizabeth Schiff & Ronald LeVine and great grandchild Josephine Schiff. Josephine was a devoted wife, loving mother, cherished grandmother & great grandmother whose strength and perseverance never faltered and who touched the hearts of anyone that was fortunate enough to have known her. The Employees of Atwell, Curtis & Brooks, Ltd.
        ANGELILLI--Josephine Danza. Beloved wife for 62 years of Prof. Frank Angell (Prof. Emeritus NYU). Of Atlantic Beach NY and Hollywood FL. Devoted mother of Marietta and Larry Schiff of Manhattan, Peter and Arlene Angelilli of Douglas Manor NY, cherished grandmother of Bradley Schiff and Jennifer Roff, James Schiff, Lauren Angelilli and Jeffrey Preston, Elizabeth Schiff and Ronald LeVine, Allison Angelilli and Evan Boulukos, Jonathan Angelilli, and Kristen Angelilli. Loving new great-grandmother of Josephine Schiff. She was a woman of strength, integrity and caring whose kindness and class were unsurpassed. She will continue to be an inspiration to us, and will be dearly missed by all who were fortunate enough to know her.
        ANGELILLI--Josephine. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to Arlene & Peter Angelilli for the loss of their mother. Our condolences are also extended to her husband Professor Frank Angell, their children, grandchildren and great grandchild. May they carry the strength of her love with them always. University Management Associates & Consultants Corp. Paul Rome, President
        ANGELILLI--Josephine. We express sincere condolences to Arlene & Peter Angelilli for the recent passing of their mother. Further condolences are extended to her husband Professor Frank Angell, their children, grandchildren and great grandchild. May they be comforted by all they've shared and the memories they hold dear. The Management & Staff of Credit International
      