
        JAICKS--David P., 78, a pioneer in food processing and education activist, successfully introduced new technologies to the production and distribution of food processing for an ever larger population, and, among other community actions, was a leader in the integration of local schools in the 1960s and 1970s, died Monday at a nursing home in Ridgewood, NJ. The cause was complications from Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. Born in Lake Forest, IL, he entered the US Navy in 1943 at the age of 18. The Navy selected him for the V12 program for officer training. In 1945, while the war in the Pacific was still raging, he shipped out to Japan, arriving just after the second atomic bomb. His first task was to lead his men in the SEABEES in the clean-up and re-building of Nagasaki's infrastructure. After the War, Mr. Jaicks took his family to the East Coast to join American Home Products Corporation (now Wyeth) in their foods division. American Home Foods, makers of Chef-BoyAr-Dee, Gulden's Mustard, and Jiffy Pop-Corn, was just beginning to be an important company when he joined in 1964. In 1990 when he retired from the company as CEO and President of seven plants, he had introduced state of the art technology and a major R and D department run by scientists. Mr. Jaicks also led the movement to integrate both in his company and in the community. He campaigned successfully to join the Waldwick Board of Education, ultimately becoming president of the Board. Together with a small band of community activists, he canvassed door-to-door to win an election giving the community the funds to build a school. The Waldwick High School still stands as a monument to that Board. In the 1960s and the 1970s Mr. Jaicks worked tirelessly with Fair Housing and Ridgewood Association of Good Schools (RAGS) to move his new town, Ridgewood, away from de-facto segregation. He had a reputation for scrupulous fairness and for mentoring. ''He showed me that he had faith in me--he pushed me to broaden my expertise and my experiences in the company. Everyone loved him,'' Ken Martin, CFO of Wyeth Corporation, said yesterday. Not content with staying home as a retiree in the 1990s, Mr. Jaicks accepted lengthy tours of duty in Ukraine and Poland working as a volunteer for the Citizens Corps for Democracy and the International Executive Service Corps. Mr. Jaicks, who lived in Ridgewood, NJ with his wife, Nancy, is survived by her, by four sons, Bryan of Ridgewood, Andrew of Tucson, Perry of Mesa, AZ, Cameron of Vail, two stepsons, Raul Cintra-Leite of Saddle Brook, NJ and Alex Cintra-Leite of San Mateo, CA, and five grandchildren. The funeral will be held at Christ Church in Ridgewood, NJ on Friday at 12 Noon.
      