
        SADIN--Sam. The Board and Staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged (JASA) express its profound sorrow at the passing of Sam Sadin. Sam served on JASA's Board of Trustees from 1976 until 1993. He developed the framework for establishing JASA's Joint Public Affairs Committee (JPAC), which has provided information and advocacy training to elderly New Yorkers for more than 25 years. He also provided guidance to a succession of JPAC directors and members. Sam was deeply committed to enriching the lives of the elderly and to the cause of social justice. We extend our condolences to his wife Terry, his sons Arthur and Robert, his extended family and to all those in the aging services community who looked to Sam for leadership and guidance. He will indeed be missed. David M. Warren, President Aileen Gitelson, CEO
        SADIN--Sam. Beloved friend, tireless advocate, compassionate voice for the rights of elders. You bore witness for justice and your work has lifted up the lives of thousands who came before you and who will come after you. We love you; we are all in your debt; and you are in our memory forever. Rick and Rose
        SADIN--Sam. The Hunter College community notes the passing of our esteemed colleague. His commitment to serving the elderly will always be cherished. Jennifer J. Raab, President, Hunter College Dennis L. Kodner, The Rose Dobrof Exec. Dir. of Brookdale Center on Aging
        SADIN--Sam. The Alzheimer's Association, NYC Chapter mourns the loss of Sam Sadin, a pioneer and leader in the field of equal justice for elders. Sincere condolences to his family. Lou-Ellen Barkan President and CEO Ann Berson Coordinator, Public Policy
        SADIN--Sam. Penn South Social Services, Inc. mourns the loss of our friend Sam Sadin. He taught us true compassion for older people and the will to fight for social justice. We extend our love to Terry and the entire family. Nat Yalowitz, President David Smith, Chairman
        SADIN--Sam. The Board of Directors and Staff extend heartfelt condolences to Terry and family. Sam was a man of vision, respected by all, and will be missed. Stephen L. Schwartz, Pres. The Brookdale Foundation
        SADIN--Sam. Our dear friend touched all our lives. His compassion, understanding and commitment made a difference in the world. Anne, Bea, Ceil, Emma and Joe, Henry, Jean, Jeanette and Nat, Ruth and Jesse, Vic
      