
        CONNOLLY -- Arthur Guild, died at the age of 98 on March 21, 2004 at his home in Wilmington where he had lived since 1939. For many years, Mr. Connolly was one of the top intellectual property litigators in the country. Among the U.S. and international clients for whom he tried cases were Pfizer, General Foods, General Motors, Kodak, Scott Paper, Rohm & Haas, Siemens and North American Philips. Mr. Connolly was also a Director of the Sprague Electric Company in Williamstown, MA. He was one of the first Delaware members of the American College of Trial lawyers, an organization whose membership is limited to no more than one percent of the lawyers in each state. He tried many cases in the New York courts. His offices were located in Midtown Manhattan and he was a member of the Canadian Club of New York, located in the Waldorf Astoria Hotel and the Metropolitan Club. Mr. Connolly was born in Boston, Mass. on November 8, 1905. He graduated from MIT in 1927 and Harvard Law School in 1930. Following law school, he worked for the Universal Oil Company in Chicago. He then came to Wilmington where he worked in the Patent Department of the Dupont Company. After eight years, he decided to found his own law firm. The small practice that he started is now the firm of Connolly, Bove, Lodge, and Hutz, with over eighty-five attorneys in Wilmington and Washington, D.C. His son Arthur G. Connolly, Jr. and his grandson, Arthur G. Connolly, III are partners in the firm. In 1926, Mr. Connolly was critically wounded in an accident that threatened his life. While working his way through college, he served as a Lieutenant in the Army Reserves. As he was instructing a training program at MIT, a recruit prematurely pulled the pin of a hand grenade, causing it to explode in Lt. Connolly's face. Doctors at Cambridge Hospital feared that Lt. Connolly would never regain his vision. After several months in the Intensive Care Unit, he had recovered completely. A long and active participant in charitable causes, Mr. Connolly served for twenty-five years as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Laffey-McHugh Foundation. He was also President of the Arguild Foundation, which he co-founded with his wife Gerardine. Some of Mr. Connollys happiest moments were spent on the shores of Sebago Lake in Maine, surrounded by members of his large and loving family. Five generations of his family had vacationed there for many decades. He was also a member of the Wilmington Country Club and the Union League Club of Chicago. Mr. Connolly was preceded in death in 1986 by his wife of almost fifty years, Gerardine Laffey Connolly. He is survived by his six children and their spouses: Arthur G. Jr and his wife, Joan of Wilmington; Dr. Ronald G. Connolly and his wife,Sieglinde, of Lafayette, CA; Dr. Christopher G. Connolly of Lexington, M A; Thomas A. Connolly and his wife, Nouchine, of New York City; Mary C. Braun and her husband, Wilson, of Wilmington; and Gerardine C. DiSabatino, and her husband, Andy, of Aspen, CO. He is also survived by thirteen grandchildren: Arthur G. Connolly, III; Amy C. Doherty, Michael M. Connolly, Gerardine A. Connolly, Ronald C. Connolly, Jr, Maria S. Connolly, Christina A. Connolly, Anna J. Connolly, Christopher B. Connolly, Lisa C. DiSabatino, Megan C.H. DiSabatino, Courtney C. Braun and Wilson J.C. Braun, III; and seven great grandchildren, Elizabeth L, Caroline M. and Arthur G. Connolly, IV; Megan and Katherine Doherty; and Arthur and Cecilia Connolly. A funeral service will be held at St. Joseph s on the Brandywine Catholic Church, Greenville on Wednesday, March 24 at 10AM. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to The Salvation Army, Wilmington Delaware, the Sunday Breakfast Mission, Wilmington, Delaware, or the Ministry of Caring, Wilmington, Delaware. For information, Chandler Funeral Homes, www.chandlerfuneralhome.com
      