
        GARVEY--Dr. Glenda J. Died on Monday, March 22. Esteemed and beloved Professor of Medicine at Columbia University for nearly three decades. Survived by her brother Dr. Thomas Q. Garvey III, sister-in-law Dr. Carol Garvey, and nephew Dr. Thomas Q. Garvey IV. Funeral Mass Friday at 11 AM, St. Ignatius Loyola Church, 980 Park Ave at 83rd. Memorial contributions should be sent to Glenda Garvey Academy of Medical Education, C/O Dean's Office, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, 630 West 168th St., New York, NY 10032.
        GARVEY--Glenda J., M.D. New York-Presbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Glenda J. Garvey, MD. After graduating from Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1969, Dr. Garvey completed her residency and a fellowship at The Presbyterian Hospital and spent her entire career there. She served the hospital as director of its medical intensive care unit, program director for its infectious diseases fellowship, and interim chief of the Department of Medicine's infectious diseases division. A deeply compassionate physician and a highly effective teacher, Dr. Garvey gave unstintingly of herself to the patients she cared for and to the medical students and residents she helped train. In 1998 the Society of Practitioners of New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia named her Distinguished Practitioner of the Year, recognizing her as a role model for others and citing her devotion to the highest standards. The New York-Presbyterian community extends its deepest sympathy to Dr. Garvey's family. Herbert Pardes, MD President and Chief Executive Officer NY-Presbyterian Hospital
        GARVEY--Glenda, MD. The Medical Board of the New York Presbyterian Hospital expresses its deep regret on the death of Dr. Glenda Garvey. She taught and inspired generations of medical students, residents and fellows. As an outstanding teacher and superb clinician Dr. Garvey served as an exemplaryrole model. She was a wonderful colleague and an inspiration to all of us. We shall not see her like again.
      