
        BERNSTEIN--Harold P., on March 21, 2004, of Palm Beach, FL and Cove Neck, LI. Beloved husband of Helen. Devoted father of Gene and Pam Bernstein, Jay and Jill Bernstein, Donna Bernstein, Linda and Tony Rubin, Matthew and Natalie Bernstein, Josh and Joann Lipman, Dorian Lipman and Ann Louise Lipman. Loving grandfather of Jennifer, Mindy and Marc, Juli, Samantha, Jamie, Samuel, Jacob, Gena, Justin, Adam, Brooke and Rory. Cherished great-grandfather of Eliza. Services Wednesday, 1:30 PM, at Temple Sinai, 425 Roslyn Road, Roslyn Heights, Long Island. Interment Beth Moses Cemetery, Pinelawn, New York.
        BERNSTEIN--Harold. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Harold Bernstein, beloved father of Jay and Jill Bernstein; Gene and Pamela Bernstein; Matthew and Natalie Bernstein; Donna Bernstein; and Linda and Tony Rubin, devoted friends of the New York Jewish community. Harold's legacy of Jewish values will continue through the efforts of his family. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Helen; to his children; his grandchildren; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        BERNSTEIN -- Harold. With deep sorrow, we extend our heartfelt condolences to the Bernstein family. An exceptionally dynamic, philanthropic man whose tremendous passion for life was only surpassed by his love for family and friends. His presence exuded great strength, intelligence, charisma, together with much warmth and caring. Our lives were enriched by him and we will cherish our memories forever. Steven, Phyllis, Richard and David Gallin
        BERNSTEIN--Harold. Harold, we have lost a great friend and father. Your spirit and guidance have enriched our lives and will live on within all of us. A special human being, always giving to others, lending a kind thought. A teacher and mentor, a prince and gentleman, who taught us what true friendship is all about. We will never forget you. The Sanders Family
        BERNSTEIN -- Harold. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express our deepest sorrow at the passing of our esteemed member, Harold, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Helen, and his family. Board of Governors Alan Goldberg, President
        BERNSTEIN -- Harold. We shall miss our dear friend Harold. His warmth and sincerity was an inspiration to all who knew him. Our condolences to Helen and the entire Bernstein family. Terry and Seymour Sobel
        BERNSTEIN--Harold. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire Bernstein family on the loss of their beloved husband, father, grandfather and great grandfather. Judy and Jay Feinberg
        BERNSTEIN--Harold. Farewell to a longtime special and caring friend. Adele Seton
      