
        QUADROZZI--John, born August 18, 1928, the son of a Blacksmith. Starting his life, he swung his father's hammer as he learned the trade of a steel man. Most noting his physical stature said he was the Man of Steel. His repertoire expanded to truck building and mechanics. However in 1964, John changed gears and became co-founder and President of Quadrozzi Concrete Corporation, a company now celebrating its 40th year anniversary as New York's oldest and most respected name in concrete. The company John sculpted from conception has become synonymous with quality. With his dedicated family at his side, John thrusted Quadrozzi into the major leagues with its first mammoth project, the Cross Bay Bridge -- gracefully swung across Jamaica Bay into the Rockaway's to John and his company's birthplace. John then swung Quadrozzi across the bay, as it increased its range and added multiple concrete plants throughout the boroughs. Now, as the industry - recognized pioneer and leader in high strength concrete, Quadrozzi Concrete supports the all-concrete Trump World Tower on Manhattan's 1st Avenue--standing virtuously as the tallest residential building in the world, and the AOL Time Warner building on Manhattan's Columbus Circle--the Making of a Landmark and single largest and most expensive private building project in North America's history. It is said that these two projects, requiring a consistent delivery of the highest strength concrete ever produced in the city, could not have been built if not for Quadrozzi. John's legacy continues as the company he created actively supplies Building 7 of the new World Trade Center. A philanthropist, John generously gave to all that asked--especially his hometown, the Rockaway's. He was a Rockaway Chamber of Commerce-Member of the Presidents Club and 3 times Man of the Year, Rockaway's Peninsula HospitalBoard Member, former President and Co-founder of the Association of NYC Concrete Producers and recipient of countless awards for his contribution to the industry. Loyal son of the late Costantino and surviving Catherine Quadrozzi. Beloved husband of Theresa Quadrozzi. Devoted father of their four daughters Juliana, Regina, Theresa, Catherine and their only son John, Jr. Cherished grandfather of their children Darien, Quinn, Leonor, Theresa and Isabella. John died Sunday, March 7, in the year 2004, one year after a long fight against multiple ailments. He defied medical science as he cheated death again and again. Those who said he was the Man of Steel were wrong, he was ''The Man of Concrete''--John Quadrozzi goes out a winner! Reposing at Denis S. O'Connor Funeral Home, 91-05 Beach Channel Dr, Rockaway Beach, NY. Visiting Wednesday 2pm-5pm & 7pm-10pm and Thursday 2pm-5pm & 6pm-10pm. Mass of Christian Burial on Friday 9:45am at St. Rose of Lima Church, Rockaway Beach, NY. Interment St. Charles Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations in John's name be sent to the Chamber of Commerce of the Rockaway's, 253 B. 116th St, Rockaway Park, NY 11694. Some of us will remember him for his brilliance--others as simply the nicest man they ever met, but those who knew him best--will remember him for both.
      