
        LAUDER--Estee. The faculty members and staff of The Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya (IDC) in Israel and the members of the board of directors and staff of The American Friends of IDC are saddened by the passing of Mrs. Estee Lauder, beloved mother of Mr. Ronald S. Lauder, a member of the Board of the American Friends of IDC and the founder of the Lauder School of Government, Diplomacy and Strategy at the IDC Herzliya. Mrs. Estee Lauder, a pioneer of her industry and an accomplished businesswoman ahead of her time committed much of her energy and resources to public service and to public causes. She has left a legacy of charitable activism that has continued and perpetuated by her sons. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mr. Ronald S. Lauder and the entire family. Professor Uriel Reichman, President, IDC Sam Zell, Chairman of the Board, AFIDC
        LAUDER--Estee. The Columbia University Medical Center faculty, alumni and staff mourn the loss of Mrs. Estee Lauder, a remarkable woman of grace and accomplishment. We extend our sincere condolences to grandson Gary Mark Lauder and his wife Laura Heller Lauder, who are kind and generous benefactors of the Department of Pediatrics at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons. With deepest sympathies to the entire Lauder family. Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D., Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Columbia University. John M. Driscoll, Jr. M.D. Chairman of the Dept. of Pediatrics, Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons
        LAUDER -- Estee. The Trustees, faculty and staff of the University of Pennsylvania are saddened by the death of Estee Lauder. Mother of two Penn alumni-Leonard A. Lauder, our fellow Trustee, and Ronald S. Lauder--and grandmother to several more Penn alumni, she has also been a source of inspiration and philanthropy to the Joseph H. Lauder Institute of Management and International Studies at Penn. Beyond her well - known achievements in the business world, Mrs. Lauder instilled in her family a love of learning and a commitment to giving back to society. The Penn community mourns her death and extends our sympathy to Leonard and Ronald Lauder and their families. Judith Rodin, President James Riepe, Chairman
        LAUDER--Estee. We mourn the loss of Estee Lauder. May her memory always be a blessing. Our thoughts and prayers are with Ronald Lauder, a dear friend and our partner in creating a vision for the New Israel in the Negev. Our deepest sympathies go to Ronald, Leonard and the entire Lauder family. Lord Weidenfeld of Chelsea Chairman Board of Governors, BGU Prof. Avishay Braverman President, BGU Lis Gaines President, AABGU Vivien K. Marion Executive VP, AABGU American Associates Ben-Gurion University of the Negev
        LAUDER--Estee. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum are deeply saddened by the death of Estee Lauder, mother of our generous supporters Evelyn and Leonard Lauder and our Director's Circle members Jo Carole and Ronald Lauder. We offer heartfelt condolences to the Lauder family. Ronnie F. Heyman President, AFIM James S. Snyder Anne & Jerome Fisher Dir., IM
        LAUDER--Estee. The Board of Directors and The Paper Bag Players extend our deepest sympathies to our dear Board Member, Evelyn Lauder, Leonard, and their children, William and Gary, on the passing of Leonard's mother, Estee Lauder. Katherine Mele, Board President Judith Martin, Artistic Director Judith Liss, Managing Director The Paper Bag Players
        LAUDER--Estee. A woman of great vision and substance, Estee will be remembered for her elegance, grace, generosity and selfless commitment to her family, friends and the numerous organizations she supported. To her children, Leonard, Evelyn, Ronald, Jo Carole and her entire family we extend heartfelt sympathies at this sad time. George and Mariana Kaufman
        LAUDER--Estee. We mourn with our friend, Leonard, and the rest of the Lauder family, the passing of Estee Lauder, a dynamic, extraordinary leader in her industry and a wonderful human being. Our heartfelt condolences to her two sons, Leonard and Ronald, and the rest of this truly remarkable family. Emily Fisher Landau Richard L. Fisher.
        LAUDER--Estee. The American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and the Tel Aviv Museum of Art express our deepest sympathies upon the passing of Estee Lauder, beloved mother of our distinguished Board member Ronald Lauder. We extend our sincere condolences to the entire Lauder family on their profound loss.
        LAUDER--Estee. The Institute of Contemporary Art, University of Pennsylvania sends their heartfelt sympathies to Leonard Lauder and the entire Lauder family on the passing of their beloved mother. Katherine Sachs, Chair Claudia Gould, Director And the staff of the ICA
        LAUDER--Estee. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Trinity School note with sorrow the passing of Estee Lauder and express our sincere condolences to our esteemed trustees Evelyn Lauder and William Lauder. Benjamin R. Shute, President Henry C. Moses, Headmaster
        LAUDER--Estee. The Alumni Association and the Endowment Fund of The Bronx High School of Science extends its condolences to our esteemed alumni Leonard Lauder and Ronald Lauder on the passing of their mother, Estee Lauder.
      