
        HAMPFORD -- Clare (Tee) Malarkey. Age 68. A resident of Trumbull, CT. Died Sunday April 11, 2004, in her home. Mrs. Hampford was born in St. Clair, PA, on March 21, 1936, the daughter of Martin and Clare McCarthy Malarkey. She was a graduate of Pottsville Catholic High School and Manhattanville College in Purchase, NY. Tee was an active community volunteer who was primarily interested in children and education. She served on numerous local boards and commissions including 12 years as a member of the Trumbull Board of Education, six of those as Chairman. Tee was a member of the Manhattanville College Board of Trustees since 1989 and the first female President of the Brooklawn Country Club. She is survived by her husband John E. Hampford of Trumbull, and her five children, Kate Hampford Donahue and her husband Joseph of Trumbull, John E. Hampford Jr., and his wife Andrea of Trumbull, Anne Hampford of Westport, Marty Hampford of Shelton and Tim Hampford and his wife Lori Carroll of Trumbull, eight grandchildren, Katy, Grace and Jimmy Donahue, Johnny and Will Hampford and Mia, Clare and Maeve Hampford. Friends may attend a Mass of Christian Burial on Wednesday, at 10 am, in St. Theresa Church, Trumbull, with interment to follow in Gate of Heaven Cemetery. Friends may call on Tuesday from 4 to 8 pm, in the Redgate - Hennessy Funeral Home, Main Street and Gorham Place, Trumbull. In lieu of flowers those who so desire may make contributions to the Clare M. Hampford Media Center at Trumbull High School or the Class of 1958 Scholarship Fund at Manhattanville College.
        HAMPFORD -- Clare (Tee) Malarkey. The Manhattanville College Community mourns the loss of Mrs. Clare (Tee) Malarkey Hampford, a dedicated alumna, who died April 11, 2004. Mrs. Hampford, a 1958 graduate of Manhattanville College, served on the college's board of trustees since 1989. In 1983 she was honored by the school with a distinguished alumni award, presented to her for her years of service. Mrs. Hampford served on the college's alumni board, and was elected its president, a position she held from 1981 to 1982. She is survived by her husband John E. Hampford of Trumbull, and her five children, Kate (Manhattanville 1980), John Jr., Anne, Marty and Tim. Contributions may be sent in her name to the Class of 1958 Scholarship Fund at Manhattanville College, 2900 Purchase Street, Purchase, NY. 10577.
      