
        LAWRENCE--H. Sherwood, M.D. Died Monday, April 5, St. Luke's Hospital, Manhattan, after a long illness. He was born in 1916 in Astoria, NY, son of Victor John and Agnes Brigid Whalen Lawrence. Beloved husband of sixty years of Dorothea Lawrence. Cherished father of Dorothea Lawrence Browne, Victor John Lawrence, M.D. and Geoffrey Douglas Lawrence. Dear father-in-law of Patricia and Ida Lawrence. Dearest grandfather of Alexander and Hillary Browne, Andrew Lawrence and Susannah Lawrence. Dr. Lawrence graduated from Stuyvesant High School, New York University Washington Square College and New York University School of Medicine, Class of '43D. He enlisted in the United States Navy following Pearl Harbor and served in World War II as a medical officer on several LSTs. He participated in the Normandy invasion at Omaha Beach and was part of the invasions of Southern France and Okinawa. Upon return from the War, he began his long and distinguished association with NYU School of Medicine and Bellevue Hospital. He concentrated his research in immunology, most notably in Transfer Factor. He was a member of the National Academy of Science and recipient of many other awards and honors. His long and distinguished career as a Bellevue physician, teacher, and researcher ceased only when he was in his eighties. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 Street Tuesday, April 6 from 2-5 and 7-9PM. Funeral Mass on Wednesday, April 7 at 10AM at the Church of the Epiphany, 2nd Ave and 22 Street, NY NY. Interment to follow at Mt Hebron Cemetery, Upper Montclair, NJ. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in Dr. Lawrence's memory to Michael Freedman, M.D. at the Department of Geriatrics, New York University Medical Center, 530 First Avenue, NY NY 10016.
        LAWRENCE--H. Sherwood, M.D. The faculty and staff of New York University School of Medicine express their deep sadness over the death of H. Sherwood Lawrence, M.D., a beloved faculty member whose tenure at NYU spanned more than half a century. Dr. Lawrence was a graduate of New York University and NYU School of Medicine, and he completed his residency at Bellevue Hospital. He also was a decorated veteran of WWII, having served as a lieutenant in the Medical Corps of the U.S. Naval Reserve during the invasions of Normandy, Okinawa and Southern France. Dr. Lawrence was a pioneering figure in the field of cellular immunology and conducted some of the earliest research on mechanisms of tissue damage and homograft rejection in humans. He served as both the Associate Chair of the Department of Medicine and as Chief of the Division of Infectious Diseases & Immunology for more than 40 years. A member of the National Academy of Sciences, he was the recipient of many honors and awards for his contributions to medicine. Dr. Lawrence was also a superb clinician and an inspiring teacher to generations of students. He will be remembered for his great intellect, his warm sense of humor, and his kindness. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Dorothea, his three children, and the entire Lawrence family. Robert M. Glickman, M.D. Dean, NYU School of Medicine Martin J. Blaser, M.D. Chairman, Department of Medicine NYU School of Medicine
      