
        CAMERON -- Donald John, M.D., 74, of Bronxville and Point O' Woods, NY died on April 23 at home of complications from cancer. Dr. Cameron, son of the late Gertrude and James K. Cameron was born in Rochester, NY, raised in Scarsdale, NY, graduated from Scarsdale High School, Amherst College, and Cornell University Medical College. After serving as a Captain in the U.S. Medical Corps, 195658, 10th Field Hospital, Wurzburg, Germany, he became a resident on the 2nd Cornell Medical Division of Bellevue Hospital. In the private practice of internal medicine for over 40 years, Dr. Cameron was Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine at Cornell University Medical College, a respected clinician and revered teacher. He was Attending Physician at Doctor's Hospital from 1970-95 and Attending Physician at New York Hospital. Upon retirement, he became an associate at the Rogisin Lipid Center. A Fellow of the American College of Physicians and the New York Academy of Medicine, he was also a Director of the Griffis Faculty Club, a member of the Physicians Scientific Society, the Medical Strollers and a Physician of The St. Andrew's Society of the State of New York. Beloved husband of Alison for 48 years, loving father of son Douglas W. and his wife Tara, of Tiburon, CA and daughter Laura C. Hale and her husband Tyler, of Manhattan and devoted grandfather of Douglas W. Jr. He is also survived by sisters Gail C. Wescott of Atlanta and Jean C. Phleger of San Francisco as well as many nephews and nieces. Donald was a 20 year Director of the Point O' Woods Association, a member of Siwanoy Country Club, The University Club and The Hillsboro Club of Florida. An enthusiastic skier, golfer, ocean swimmer, bridge, backgammon and croquet player, he will be dearly missed by family, friends and colleagues. A memorial service will be held Friday, April 30 at 11AM at The Reformed Church, Pondfield Road, Bronxville, NY. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to The Reformed Church, The Church at Point O' Woods, or The Fund for Research, Department of Medicine, New York Hospital, 525 East 68th Street, New York, New York 10021.
      