
        EDELMAN--William. 82, died April 23, surrounded by his beloved family. At his side were his children, Norma Penn, Neil Edelman, Terry Tannenbaum, son-in-law David Penn, daughter-in-law Shelley Edelman and his grandchildren Jonathan, Ricki, Jeremy, Jessica, Jillian, Ryanne and Evan. William's beloved wife Esther had passed away suddenly in 1991. Both of them, Holocaust survivors, had endured so many difficult years of devastating experiences and the annihilation of most of their families. Yet, together they persevered, overcame their tragedies and created a wonderful and loving life for them and their children here, in America. William was a man of slight build, but a ''Giant of a Man'' as he towered among everyone with his kindness, generosity, intellect, warmth and love. For he was truly ''over 10 feet tall.'' He leaves a legacy to those who knew and loved him as a relative, friend and business associate, of a human being who knew how to live, how to survive, how to deal with life's adversities. There was always a warm greeting, a kind word, and a true interest in your well-being when you were with William. You knew he cared about you and you respected him and loved him for it. William was born on December 27, 1921 in BiallerPodliask, Poland, one of five children. At the age of 19, he left for Russia as the Nazis entered Poland. He joined the Russian army and fought in a Polish division. He and one other member of his division were the sole survivors of a brutal onslaught by the Nazis. At the end of the war he returned to his hometown to see if anyone else had survived. His entire famlily with the exception of one sister had been slaughtered. It was upon his return that he met Esther, who, with one of her sisters, were the sole survivors of their family. He eventually married Esther and lived in a Displaced Persons Camp, where their first child Norma was born. Soon thereafter in 1950, the family left for America, where they first settled in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn. William was a butcher, struggling and working to support and feed three children, which now included Neil and Terry. At the same time, he attended Brooklyn College in an effort to educate himself with the hope and expectation of being able to create a better life for his family. He managed, in spite of the financial difficulties, to save money and miraculously became a Real Estate Builder and Developer. He actually had to leave college a few credits short of a Bachelor of Science Degree because the business had grown to such an extent that it required 100% of his time. In the late 1950s William became a major developer of the Canarsie section of Brooklyn and in Staten Island. In the 1970s he built The Georgetowne hi-rise on Ocean Avenue in Brooklyn. Eventually his son Neil and son-inlaw David joined the business. Throughout the 1950s and even today, he and his firm, Forest View, and the Georgetowne are well-regarded and respected in the building construction industry. William was a member of the Board of Directors of the Israeli Humanitarian Foundation and Secretary of the Bialler Society (an organization of survivors of the Holocaust from the area surrounding his birthplace). William will truly be missed by all those whose paths he crossed, but the experience of life took on a unique meaning for each of them because of the richness of what he had imparted, for William was truly a ''Gentleman.''
      