
        SCHULTZ--Chad. A Chicago investment banker, died at home on Thursday, after a long illness. He was 50. Mr. Schultz was a Managing Director of Credit Suisse First Boston, and Group Co-Head of the Private Fund Group, an industry leading placement agent for private equity investment funds. He joined CSFB in November, 2000, when the firm merged with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, where he was a Managing Director, Founder and CoHead of the Private Fund Group. He joined DLJ in 1994 from Merrill Lynch in Chicago, whre he was a Vice President with responsibility for raising institutional private equity for various investment partnerships. Prior to that, Mr. Schultz spent six years with Morgan Stanley in the Fixed Income and Financial Services Group. He received a BA from Trinity College. Mr. Schultz was known for the energy and enthusiasm he brought to his many interests. His avid love of music flowed from his skill at the piano to an encyclopedic knowledge of both popular and classical music. No less a student of the arts and literature, Mr. Schultz brought the intensity and intelligence that drove his business success to bear in these areas as well, providing him with an engaging charm born of his easy familiarity with so many facets of culture. He founded Bordigera Vineyards in 1999, the culmination of his interest in wine, encompassing with typical thoroughness the soil, the vines, and their combination in the wine making process. His daughters' love of horses translated into the establishment of Bordigera Stables, yet another example of the passion Mr. Schultz brought to all of his accomplishments. Mr. Schultz is survived by his wife Noreen McGuire Schultz; his daughters, Claire and Elizabeth Schultz and Lauren Besser; his parents Sigrid and Gerhard Schultz; and his sisters, Dawn Bandolik and Beth Walsh. A Memorial Service was held Monday, April 19, at 10 am, at Fourth Presbyterian Church, Michigan Ave and Delaware Place, Chicago. Interment will be private. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Chad Schultz Cancer Research Fund, C/O the Greater Milwaukee Foundation, 1020 North Broadway, Milwaukee, WI. 53202.
      