
        PECK--Stephen M. Most beloved and loving husband of Judith. Devoted father of Bradford, Kate, Jennifer and Suzanne Peck; father-in-law Craig Barne. Devoted stepfather of Emanuel, Liz, Edward, Stephanie and Andrea Stern. Adored and adoring grandfather of Josie, Ben, Maxine, Gabriel, Avery, Simon, Eliana, Ezra and Oliver. Beloved brother of Alice Soll, Joan Betty Schwarz. Devoted son-in-law of Charlotte Falk. Loved by his nephews, nieces, their children, his friends, and his extended inlaw family. Funeral services will take place Thursday, 1:30 PM, at B'nai Jeshurun, 257 West 88th Street. Shiva will be observed at home.
        PECK--Stephen M. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of Stephen M. Peck, a beloved leader and friend. Stephen held many significant positions at UJA-Federation. He served on our Board of Directors, our Council of Overseers, and was Chair of our Wall Street Division. Stephen's exceptional concern for humanitarian causes will undoubtedly live on in the continuing efforts of his family. Earning enormous respect for his integrity and guidance, Stephen also served as Chairman of Mount Sinai Medical Center and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of The Jewish Theological Seminary of America. Stephen's devotion to the Jewish community was shared with his beloved wife, Judy, one of our most dedicated leaders. Judy, who has held many offices, served most recently as past chair of the UJA-Federation Board of Directors. Through their enthusiastic leadership, they have strengthened our ability to serve those in need, making an indelible impact through their generosity, warmth, and spirit of klal Yisrael. We extend our deepest sympathies to Judy; to their children; and to the entire Peck and Stern families. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        PECK -- Stephen. We are deeply saddened by the tragic and untimely passing of Stephen Peck, a person whose vision of Jewish community had an enormous impact in creating the JCC in Manhattan. Stephen's wisdom, advice, guidance and friendship over the past 14 years has been invaluable, and will be forever remembered and cherished. He was the embodiment of a mensch, and his dedication to making the world a better place is the purest reflection of ''tikkun olam.'' On behalf of the Board of Directors and staff of the JCC, we extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Judy, one of our founding spirits, as well as to his children Jennifer, Suzanne, Brad and Kate. We also send our deep sympathy to his stepchildren--Andrea, our fellow Board members Emanuel and Liz and Stephanie and Eddie--and to all his beloved grandchildren. We mourn this profund loss to his family and the entire community. Elizabeth Scheuer and Peter Joseph, Co-Chairs Nick Bunzl, President The JCC in Manhattan
        PECK -- Stephen M. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of Stephen M. Peck, former Chairman of the Boards of Trustees, who served Mount Sinai with tireless dedication, enthusiasm, and compassion. He was an integral part of the fabric of Mount Sinai, where his devotion was legendary and inspirational for more than 30 years. Stephen's sincere commitment to Mount Sinai's mission, and his many kindnesses to faculty and staff, will long be remembered. His personal generosity included naming the Peck Jewish Chapel at Mount Sinai, and together with his daughter, Jennifer, he was instrumental in raising essential funds for the renovation of the Lauder Center for Maternity Care. Stephen will be profoundly missed by all members of the Mount Sinai family whose lives he touched. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Judy; his children, Jennifer, Bradford, and Suzanne, and the entire family. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, M.D. President and CEO
        PECK--Stephen M. The Jewish Theological Seminary mourns the untimely tragic death of Stephen M. Peck, an exceptionally competent and devoted friend of JTS and the entire Jewish community. A leader of wit and wisdom, grace and gravity, he firmly led the institution through the aftermath of the decision to admit women into the Conservative rabbinate and the selection of a new Chancellor. As chairman of the JTS Board from 1985 to 1991, he promoted consensus through a spirit of inclusion and attention to process. He analyzed problems incisively, treated others sensitively and gave voice to his vision with articulate vigor. A student of history, he readily appreciated JTS's ethos of tradition and change. To the day of his death, Stephen remained an active trustee. In gratitude for his strong leadership, JTS inducted him into its Society of Fellows in 1986 and in 1992 conferred upon him an honorary doctorate. The entire JTS community extends its heartfelt condolences to Judith Stern Peck and family. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Chairman
        PECK--Stephen. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of The Jewish Home & Hospital Lifecare System mourn the untimely passing of Stephen Peck, beloved husband of Judith Stern Peck, generous friends and supporters of the Home. His lifelong commitment to his family, to the Jewish community, and to the cause of tikkun olam leaves behind a legacy that will be carried on for generations to come. As an affiliate agency of The Mount Sinai Medical Center, the Home was a beneficiary of Stephen's vision and leadership as its longtime Board Chair. Our deepest condolences are extended to Judith and the entire Peck and Stern families. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Fred M. Lowenfels Chairman of the Board Audrey S. Weiner, DSW President & CEO
        PECK--Stephen. It is with profound sorrow that the Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge the death of Stephen Peck, father of Brad, a JBFCS trustee. His vision and determined leadership have had a great impact on so many important institutions both in the Jewish and larger community. Our thoughts are with Judith, his beloved wife and a professional colleague and friend of our agency. We know that this is a very painful time for Brad, Jennifer and Suzanne. Our condolences to the entire family. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, PhD Executive VP and CEO
        PECK--Stephen. The staff and Board of Trustees of the Jewish Communal Fund mourn with sorrow the passing of Stephen Peck, beloved husband of our Trustee Judith. Stephen was a pillar of the community, a man of extraordinary integrity and character. Stephen's dedication to making the world a better place and his deep devotion to his family have created a legacy for generations to come. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire family. Andrew H. Tisch, President Harold R. Handler, Chair Executive Committee Susan F. Dickman, Executive Vice President
        PECK--Stephen M. Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion records with deep sorrow the untimely death of Stephen M. Peck whose guidance, direction and wise counsel have contributed to the vitality of Jewish and secular institutions in the City of New York. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Judy, his children, Bradford, Jennifer, and Suzanne, and their family. May they find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson President Burton Lehman, Chair Board of Governors
        PECK--Stephen M. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of our devoted friend and benefactor. Mr. Peck served the institution and its patients as a longstanding member and Chairman of the Board of Trustees. He will be remembered for his lifelong devotion and philanthropic commitment to Mount Sinai. We extend our sincere condolences to his entire family. Michael T. Harris, M.D., Pres. Vicki Lopachin, M.D., V.P. Amy Weinstein, Admin.
        PECK--Stephen M., Dr. C. Warren Olanow and the Department of Neurology of The Mount Sinai School of Medicine are saddened by the passing of Stephen M. Peck, who was the former Chairman of The Board of Trustees at Mount Sinai, and a great personal friend. He was enormously involved in helping with the development of our department and his support and friendship will not be forgotten. We extend our deepest and sincerest condolences to his entire family.
        PECK--Stephen. The entire Heschel School community is saddened to hear of the untimely passing of Stephen Peck, beloved husband of Judy Stern Peck. Judy was a guiding force in the creation of the Abraham Joshua Heschel School, and we are forever indebted to her. We express our heartfelt condolences to the entire Peck/ Stern family. Alisa R. Doctoroff, President Board of Trustees Roanna Shorofsky, Head of School
        PECK--Stephen M. Fresenius Medical Care, its Management Board and Supervisory Board, expresses its deepest sympathies to his family for the tragic loss of our devoted colleague and friend. Stephen's intelligence, his energy and his deep understanding of the health care field will be deeply missed. Most of all, we will miss his rare combination of insight and perspective. Fresenius Medical Care Ben Lipps, CEO Gerd Krick, Chairman
        PECK--Stephen M. Beloved brother-in-law, uncle, grand uncle. It is hard to imagine life without his vital and loving presence. Our lives will be greatly diminished by his loss. Heartfelt condolences to our sister Judy and to the Peck and Stern children and grandchildren. Susan and Ronald Green Jonathan Green, Anne Green Cynthia Green and Joshua Jablons, Zachary, Jonah and Hannah.
        PECK--Stephen. We will miss the smile, the jokes, the floppy hat, the cigar, and most of all the warmth and love that he gave his loved ones. Our deepest sympathies to Judy, Bradford and Kate, Jennifer, Suzanne, Emanuel and Liz, Eddie and Stephanie, Andrea, grandchildren and family. He will be missed by all who knew him. Pam and George Friedman and Family
        PECK--Stephen M. FOJP Service Corporation and its Board of Directors record with sincere sorrow the untimely passing of Stephen M. Peck, husband of our former Board member, Judith Stern Peck. Our deepest sympathy is offered to the entire Peck family. George J. Grumbach, Jr., Chairman Lisa Kramer, President and CEO
        PECK--Stephen. Coach, our second father, twinkle in his eye, big hugs, warm and gracious, always knowing he was there. His strength, his vitality. Camp Peck, tennis whites, what he taught us, we were always made to feel at home. He will be with us always. Our deepest condolences to our adored Bradford, Jennifer, Suzanne, and of course Judy. Sheri, Valerie and Michael
        PECK--Stephen M. A friendship encompassing high school, summer neighbors, stock market interests and support for his leadership of the hospital and school, has ended all too swiftly and been transformed into a memory. Our heartfelt sympathies go to his family. We will miss you greatly. John and Betty
        PECK--Stephen. The Board and staff of Kolot express our heartfelt condolences to Judy and Stephen's family. His voice will be missed. Sally Gottesman, Chair of Kolot Board Deborah Meyer, Managing Director Lori Lefkovitz, Academic Director
        PECK--Stephen . Stephen was our special friend. He brought to our family guidance, wisdom and support which are irreplaceable. We are distraught by his passing and offer our deepest love to Judy and his children. Susan and Bruce Waterfall Sara Guyer and Scott Straus Jane and John Waterfall
        PECK--Stephen. Tennis, Sabbath dinners, Knicks games, business advice, warmth and hospitality -- memories of Stephen, father of our adored friends Bradford, Jennifer and Suzanne--will always be with us. Linda & David Hoffman Alison & Jim Kallman
        PECK--Stephen. Israel Policy Forum mourns the loss of our beloved friend, Stephen Peck, husband of our President, Judith Stern Peck. Stephen inspired us to continue our search for peace. We will miss him deeply.
        PECK -- Stephen M. We mourn the untimely death of our beloved son-in-law and brother-in-law. His memory will forever be in our hearts. Charlotte Falk, Ann and Michael Falk, Sue and Ronnie Green
        PECK--Stephen. The Board of Governors, membership and staff of The East Hampton Tennis Club extend our deepest sympathy to the family of our esteemed member, Stephen Peck. Marshall J. Gluck, President
      