
        PECK -- Stephen. We are deeply saddened by the tragic and untimely passing of Stephen Peck, a person whose vision of Jewish community had an enormous impact in creating the JCC in Manhattan. Stephen's wisdom, advice, guidance and friendship over the past 14 years has been invaluable, and will be forever remembered and cherished. He was the embodiment of a mensch, and his dedication to making the world a better place is the purest reflection of ''tikkun olam.'' On behalf of the Board of Directors and staff of the JCC, we extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Judy, one of our founding spirits, as well as to his children Jennifer, Suzanne, Brad and Kate. We also send our deep sympathy to his stepchildren--Andrea, our fellow Board members Emanuel and Liz and Stephanie and Eddie--and to all his beloved grandchildren. We mourn this profound loss to his family and the entire community. Elizabeth Scheuer and Peter Joseph, Co-Chairs Nick Bunzl, President The JCC in Manhattan
        PECK--Stephen M. The Faculty and Staff of the Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute and the Marie-Josee and Henry R. Kravis Center for Cardiovascular Health at the Mount Sinai Medical Center are deeply saddened by the sudden and untimely passing of Stephen M. Peck, a trusted friend and advisor. His guidance and wisdom, his dedication to improving the lives of those suffering from cardiovascular disease, his unfailing loyalty, and the depth of his commitment to the Medical Center will be remembered forever. We will miss his humanity and generosity of spirit. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Judith Stern Peck, their children and grandchildren. Valentin Fuster, M.D., Ph.D. Director
        PECK--Stephen M. Mount Sinai Hospital of Queens is deeply saddened by the death of Stephen Peck on March 30, 2004. An ardent supporter and friend of Mount Sinai Queens, he will be sincerely missed. He was instrumental in the acquisition of the Hospital by Mount Sinai and made all of us feel immediately a part of the Mount Sinai family. His personal touch and warmth were extended to all staff on his frequent rounds throughout the facility. We extend heartfelt condolences to wife, Judy and the rest of his family. Caryn A. Schwab, Executive Director Arthur N. Gualtieri, M.D., J.D., Medical Director
        PECK--Stephen M. Torrey Associates LLC mourns the sudden loss of our friend, Partner and esteemed colleague Stephen M. Peck. His support, contribution, and most importantly friendship throughout the years cannot be summarized with mere words. He served as a role model, example, and mentor to all that came in contact with him. He touched all of our hearts, and he will be remembered often and fondly. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Judy; and the entire Peck and Stern families.
        PECK--Stephen M. During the 15 years in which Stephen Peck made his office with us, every one of our 75 people not only knew he was here, but each of us, individually, felt his warmth and friendship. He took the time to show us that he was here to listen, to hear, often to act on behalf of each of us. We don't know of a bigger heart on Wall Street; we feel his loss deeply. Our sad condolences to his gallant and loving wife, Judith, to his children, stepchildren and grandchildren. Gilder Gagnon Howe & Co.
        PECK--Stephen. We mourn the loss of Stephen Peck, a founding member of our Palliative Care Advisory Board, and a source of wisdom, advice, and support on behalf of patients and families facing serious illness. Diane E. Meier, M.D., Dir. Lilian & Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute and Members of the Hertzberg Advisory Board Mt. Sinai School of Medicine
        PECK--Stephen M. Robeco USA sends its condolences to the family of Stephen M. Peck, a founding Partner of Weiss, Peck & Greer and father to our former Partner, Bradford Peck. Stephen's creativity and drive was an inspiration to us all. On behalf of the Managing Directors and Employees of Robeco USA and Weiss, Peck & Greer, Stefan Bichsel
        PECK--Stephen. He was a part of our lives for 24 years as Judy's beloved husband and embraced us with warmth and caring. Though his cigar was often not lit, he was a glowing member of our family. We will miss him always. Jean and Armand Lindenbaum Belda and Marcel Lindenbaum
        PECK--Stephen. The Ackerman Institute for the Family extends our deepest condolences to our colleague, Judith Stern Peck, and her family, on the loss of her husband, Stephen, a man of talent, of commitment, and of great personal generosity. Peter Steinglass, MD, Executive Director Jane Donaldson, Chair of the Board of Trustees
        PECK--Stephen M. Suzanne and Stephen Weiss, Nancy and Phil Greer and Caren and Roger Weiss send our condolences to the entire Peck family and want them to know that we share their sorrow. We shared many wonderful years together with Stephen. He was a driving force with energy, vision and enthusiasm that moved our Firm forward.
        PECK--Stephen M. The Members of the Board of Directors, the officers, and the staff of Boston Life Sciences, Inc. express deepest sympathies to his family for the loss of our colleague. He was a sincerely committed professional leader and a dedicated Member of our Board. We shall miss his guidance and friendship.
        PECK -- Stephen M. The Trustees and staff of the Manhattan Institute mourn the passing of Stephen M. Peck. Stephen understood the power of ideas in shaping the world we live in. As a Trustee and friend, his insight and support were invaluable. We share the sadness of his death with his family and many friends.
        PECK--Stephen M. CLAL mourns the loss of a leader of great dignity, integrity and vision who was an early advocate of CLAL's commitment to build a pluralist community. We extend deepest sympathy to Judy and the entire family. May his memory and his legacy be a blessing. The Board, Faculty and Staff of CLAL
        PECK--Stephen. So inclusive, so concerned, so supportive. What an example for us all. Our family stands with Judy and the Peck/Stern families in mourning the devastating loss of our special brother-inlaw and uncle. Ruth, Avi, Jacqui, Michael and Philip Lindenbaum
        PECK--Stephen. Tennis, Sabbath dinners, Knicks games, business advice, warmth and hospitality -- memories of Stephen, father of our adored friends Bradford, Jennifer and Suzanne--will always be with us. Linda & David Hoffman Alison & Jim Kallman
        PECK--Stephen. The Conservative Synagogue of the Hamptons mourns the loss of its dear member Stephen Peck. Our condolences to his wife Judy and to the Peck and Stern families. Jan Uhrbach, Rabbi Stacy Menzer, President
        PECK--Stephen. Silent, gone, your voice that harmonized with ours in moments of joyful praying. Sadness and sorrow overtake our hearts. To Judy and the family, our deepest condolences. Amir Shaviv, Beth Brodsky
        PECK--Stephen. Colleague, friend and mentor. He gave so much to so many. We mourn his untimely passing. Our deepest condolences to Judy and his family. Leslie & Dwight Lee
        PECK--Stephen. A wonderful gentleman loved by all who knew him. Our sincere condolences to the family on this sudden loss. Irving Schneider & Family
        PECK--Stephen. To our dearest friend Jennifer, Bradford, Suzanne and Judy we extend our heartfelt condolences. Hillary and Jeff
      