
        MORAN--Charles F., retired business leader and civic benefactor, passed away at his home in Wheaton on Monday (April 12, 2004). He retired in 1993 as Senior Vice President and as a member of the Sears Roebuck and Co. Management Committee after a forty year career with Sears. Most recently he was Chairman of the Board of Denny's Corporation, and President of the Homan Arthington Foundation, which was responsible for redeveloping the original Sears headquarters location on Chicago's West Side into affordable housing for threehundred families in the North Lawndale neighborhood. Mr. Moran was born in Brooklyn, NY, in 1930, and developed a lifelong love for sports and humor. He starred as a catcher at Drew University in Madison, NJ, played in the Northern League on a team affiliated with the New York Yankees, and earned positions with numerous traveling All-Star baseball teams. He caught batting practice for the Brooklyn Dodgers on several occasions, including for the 1949 Major League All-Star Game held at Ebbets Field. One All-Star team appearance in 1948 led him to Mauch Chunk, PA (now Jim Thorpe, PA), where he met his wife of fifty-two years, Dolores Huber. After a short Army stint, Mr. Moran joined Sears as a trainee in its Hackensack, NJ store. In forty years and seven moves he took on increasing responsibility, ranging from spilling paint as a trainee to selling the Sears Tower, from plowing Sears parking lots to building new parking lots, and from integrating Dean Witter and Coldwell Banker into Sears to then subsequently leading the divestiture of these units. Sears retired Chairman, President and CEO Edward Brennan said ''Charley was a man of great competence and total integrity. Whenever there was a tough challenge, he could be counted on to handle it successfully.'' Mr. Moran also acted as Chairman of Thermadyne Holdings Corporation, and Prodigy Services (a joint venture between Sears and IBM that was a key precursor to the Internet). He acted on numerous corporate boards, including Discover Bank and the Morgan Stanley Trust Company, SPS Transaction Services, Inc., Advantis, Inc., DeSoto, Inc., and Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. His other civic contributions included membership in the Sorin Society at the University of Notre Dame, and as a benefactor to many needy students. He leaves a loving family, and numerous friends and colleagues who will miss him for his many contributions. His ongoing legacy is his family--wife, Dolores; daughter, Mary (William) Deatherage; son, Charles (Dianne) Moran; daughter, Alice Moran; son, John (Laura) Moran; and eleven grandchildren. Visitation will be at 4-9 P.M on Wednesday, April 14, at Williams-Kampp Funeral Home at 430 E. Roosevelt Rd. in Wheaton. A funeral Mass will be held at 10 A.M. on Thursday, April 15, at St. Mark Catholic Church at 303 E. Parkway Drive in Wheaton. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Rush University Medical Center Cancer Institute, 1700 W. Van Buren, Suite 250, Chicago, IL 60612, or to the Homan Arthington Foundation, 3517 W. Arthington Street, Chicago, IL 60624.
      