
        HALPERN--Nathan L. died April 3 at home. A man of strong, agile intellect, life long excellence, high achievement and significant contributions to the quality of life in New York City. He was independent, original and a true American success story. Through his company, Theatre Network Television, he was the USA pioneer and successful business developer of three major areas of television--the multi-city live interactive video conference; the use of large screen TV image magnification for audiences at meetings of all types and special events; and large screen TV presentations of live sports, with replays in major arenas. A tireless, effective Trustee for the Central Park Conservancy, he was proud of being part of and seeing the renaissance of Central Park; as recognition of his efforts, he was made a Life Trustee. He was a benefactor and member of the corporation of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. He was president of the International Center of Photography during an important period of its development; and because of the results, he was made an Honorary Trustee. Born in Sioux City, Iowa to Aaron and Lena Halpern, who had emigrated from Russia, his family finally settled in Los Angeles. Graduating from Theodore Roosevelt High School, he was a top student as well as the basketball scoring leader for the City of Los Angeles. Receiving a scholarship to University of Southern California, he graduated in 1936 with Phi Beta Kappa honors, as well as being a member of three Pacific Conference champion basketball teams. He then came east to Harvard Law School where he was a member and Treasurer of the Law Review. To help with the publication's finances, he developed the idea of publishing volumes of previous years' editions and selling them to interested professionals--a successful venture. Upon graduation, he went as a young lawyer to Washington, D.C. as Assistant to the Chairman of the SEC. While working with the SEC he was given an additional duty to assist in the drafting of the Lend Lease. Then served as Executive Assistant to the Director of WPB 1941-42. During WWII as a Navy Officer, he became Executive Assistant to James Forrestal. Seeking an active role overseas, he became part of the Office of Strategic Services. He participated in the planning of D-Day in London. Executive Assistant to Director of US Information Services (France), he went behind German lines in Belgium and later had duties that brought him all the way through and behind the lines of the advancing Russian troops to start negotiating repatriation of whole populations in Europe. In the course of his OSS assignments, he met William S. Paley, President of CBS and some of the people who worked for him. After the war, he went to work for CBS from 1945-49, becoming Assistant to Mr. Paley during the period. As he learned more about the new medium of television. he developed an innovative concept of closed circuit television--the ''special origination, distribution and display of television to a special audience.'' He left CBS to form his own company. His work over the next 45 years included the first pay-TV events televised live to theatre audiences; the first satellite television telecasts to Europe (Telstar), Japan and China; ten national political conventions in which he was part of changing the entire nature of the televised event through new staging of the rostrum, preparing speakers for TV and special TV presentations for the audience; providing new national private network TV marketing communication for major US companies; designing and providing the high resolution large screen TV technology which NASA used for management of its rocket launches as well as extensive application for all the images from the moon during Apollo 11; breakthrough medical television techniques with live broadcasts from hospitals into major medical meetings involving patient case histories, treatment techniques and live surgeries; many of the biggest sports events and concerts; major meetings of associations, religious denominations, corporations; flight simulator displays and air traffic control. He loved East Hampton and the beach. He became a founding member and president of the East Hampton Beach Preservation Society and, true to form, became an expert as he researched the facts on beaches and erosion/ build up patterns. He was an avid landscaper and tree planter and created a beautiful environment at his home. A voracious reader, a fine eye and appreciation for art and a collector in various categories, a punster, he swam in the ocean and shot baskets regularly until age 85. He is predeceased by Edith, his loving wife of 63 years. He is survived by his son Michael, daughter-in-law Chris Grant and two grandsons. Funeral arrangements were private. A memorial service will be held at a later date.
      