
        LAUDER--Estee. The members of The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art express our heartfelt sadness to the family of Estee Lauder. Estee Lauder was an extraordinary woman whose devotion to her family, genius for business, international vision, and generosity to the many causes in which she passionately believed, are legendary. Our profound sympathy is extended to her sons Leonard and Ronald; to her daughtersin-law Evelyn and Jo Carole, the International Council's President; and to her grandchildren William, Gary, Aerin, and Jane, and their spouses and children. Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman HRH Duke Franz von Bayern, Lewis B. Cullman, Joann K. Phillips, Joanne M. Stern, Beth Straus, Jeanne C. Thayer, Vice Chairmen
        LAUDER -- Estee. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of Estee Lauder, mother of the Chairman of our Board, Ronald and mother-in-law of the President of our International Council, Jo Carole. Estee was a visionary pioneer, a generous benefactor, a gracious hostess, and a beautiful presence throughout New York City and the world. Although she can never be replaced, we are glad that her legacy lives on so wonderfully through her two sons, Leonard and Ronald; her daughters-in-law, Evelyn and Jo Carole; her grandchildren and great-grandchildren. We extend our deepest sympathies to them all. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Robert B. Menschel, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        LAUDER--Estee. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Estee Lauder, beloved mother of Leonard and Ronald Lauder, cherished leaders of the global Jewish community. A renowned businesswoman and philanthropist, Mrs. Lauder's exceptional concern for humanitarian causes is testament to a personality filled with warmth and spirit. Such commitment lives on in the continuing efforts of her family, whose unparalleled devotion to Jewish communities around the world exemplifies their dedication to klal Yisrael. We extend our deepest sympathies to her sons, Leonard and Ronald, and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        LAUDER--Estee. The Hillel Family extends its heartfelt condolences to International Board of Governors member, Ronald S. Lauder and the entire Lauder family on the passing of the beloved Estee Lauder. A pioneering business woman, Mrs Lauder inspired generations of young women and men alike. She saw the beauty in all people and made dreams come true through her work and through her gracious philantropy. May her family be comforted among the mour ners of Zion and Jerusalem. Hillel Edgar M. Bronfman, Chairman, Board of Governors Lynn Schusterman, Co-Chair Michael Steinhardt, Co-Chair Neil M. Moss, Chairman, Board of Directors Avraham Infeld, President
        LAUDER -- Estee. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center are saddened by the passing of Estee Lauder, an important philanthropist and prominent cosmetics executive. Estee's son, Ronald Lauder, former Mount Sinai Trustee and her daughter-inlaw, Jo Carole Lauder, a Sinai Trustee, have provided generous support to Mount Sinai for many years. We extend sincere condolences to the entire family. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, MD President and CEO Michael Brodman, MD On behalf of The Lauder Maternity Care Center Ian R. Holzman, MD On behalf of The Lauder Newborn ICU
        LAUDER--Estee. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of Estee Lauder, grandmother of Board member William and mother of former Board member Leonard. We extend our heartfelt condolences to them, their wives, Karen and Evelyn, son Ronald and his wife, Jo Carole, her other three grandchildren and the six great grandchildren. We grieve with the family, who are long-time supporters of the Y. May the Lauder family celebrate this remarkable woman's life and be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Michael Goldstein, President Matthew Bronfman, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        LAUDER--Estee. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the passing of business pioneer and philanthropist, Estee Lauder. A Museum Founder, she was part of a small group of dedicated visionaries who helped build the Museum. Her generosity and commitment to Holocaust education and remembrance supported the institution's widespread impact during its first decade. We extend our deep condolences to her sons, Leonard A. Lauder and Ronald S. Lauder--a former member of the Museum's Council -- their spouses, and the entire Lauder Family. Fred S. Zeidman, Chair Ruth B. Mandel, Vice Chair Sara J. Bloomfield, Director
        LAUDER -- Estee. Central Synagogue extends condolences to our members Leonard and Evelyn Lauder, and Ronald and Jo Carole Lauder and their families on the death of their mother, Estee Lauder. Estee's accomplishments are legendary, but of greatest importance to Estee was her incredible family: her children and grandchildren William and Karen, Gary and Laura, Aerin and Eric, Jane and Kevin and her great - grandchildren. They filled Estee's life with joy, love and devotion. May her memory be a blessing. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President
        LAUDER--Estee. The Board of Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art mourns the passing of Estee Lauder. Beloved mother of our Chairman and fellow Trustee, Leonard Lauder, Estee possessed an extraordinary degree of elegance, wisdom and grace that will be sorely missed by all of us. Our deepest condolences go out to her sons, Leonard & Ronald, and the entire Lauder family. Robert J. Hurst, President and the Whitney Museum Board of Trustees
        LAUDER--Estee. The Board of Trustees of the Central Park Conservancy extends its condolences to Trustee Evelyn Lauder and her husband Leonard, and Ronald and Jo Carole Lauder and their families on the passing of their beloved mother, Estee Lauder. A generous donor to the Conservancy, her gifts will benefit visitors to Central Park for generations to come. The Board of Trustees of the Central Park Conservancy
        LAUDER--Estee. We mourn the death of Estee Lauder, beloved mother of Leonard and Evelyn and Ronald and Jo Carole, our benefactors and supporters of human rights, religious freedom and tolerance. Our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Appeal of Conscience Foundation Rabbi Arthur Schneier President H.E. Khajag Barsamian Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, S.J. Vice Presidents
        LAUDER--Estee. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the passing of Estee Lauder, mother of Ronald S., member of JTS's Board of Trustees and longtime JTS supporter and benefactor. Mrs. Lauder's generosity of spirit will continue to inspire the members of our community. May her family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Chairman
        LAUDER--Estee. Jewish National Fund's Board of Directors, Trustees and family of contributors are greatly saddened by the passing of Estee Lauder, one of the most accomplished business leaders of the 20th century, and beloved mother of JNF President, Ronald Lauder. May the entire Lauder family be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Mrs. Lauder's memory will indeed be a blessing.
        LAUDER -- Estee. The Trustees of the World Monuments Fund extend their deepest sympathy to fellow trustee Ronald S. Lauder, and to Leonard Lauder, upon the loss of their mother. Her numerous accomplishments and great generosity were an inspiration to us all. Our heartfelt condolences to them and to the entire family. Dr. Marilyn Perry, Chairman Bonnie Burnham, President
        LAUDER--Estee. The Whitney Museum of American Art notes with great sadness the passing of Estee Lauder, dear mother of our Chairman, Leonard Lauder. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to her sons, Leonard and Ronald, and the entire Lauder family. Adam D. Weinberg, Alice Pratt Brown Director and the staff of the Whitney Museum
        LAUDER--Estee. The faculty, students and staff of the Joseph H. Lauder Institute of Management & International Studies at the University of Pennsylvania mourn the loss of Estee Lauder, who with her sons, Leonard and Ronald, founded the Institute in memory of her late husband, Joseph. We are grateful for her vision and generosity and extend our deepest condolences to her family.
        LAUDER--Estee. Our deepest sympathy to our friends Leonard and Evelyn and Ronald and Jo Carole on the death of their beloved mother, Estee Lauder. A creative, wise and compassionate lady, she made a difference and was proud of her children and grandchildren's achievements. Rabbi Arthur and Elisabeth Schneier
        LAUDER--Estee. Park East Synagogue mourns the death of Estee Lauder, beloved mother of Leonard and Evelyn and our dedicated members Ronald and Jo Carole, generous supporters of Jewish education. May the bereaved family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        LAUDER--Estee. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Estee Lauder, mother of our friend and longtime suporter, Ambassador Ronald S. Lauder. We extend our sincere condolences to Ron, his brother Leonard, and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        LAUDER -- Estee. Temple Adas Israel, Sag Harbor, NY mourns the passing of Estee Lauder, beloved mother of our esteemed members Ronald S. and Jo Carole Lauder. Her memory will enrich the lives of those she loved. Our deepest sympathies to the entire family. Rabbi Leon A. Morris Neal Fagin, President
        LAUDER--Estee. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Trinity School note with sorrow the passing of Estee Lauder and express our sincere condolences to our esteemed trustees Evelyn Lauder and William Lauder. Benjamin R. Shute, President Henry C. Moses, Headmaster
      