
        EARLE--Walter R. 67, of Freehold, NJ died Tuesday, April 6, 2004 at New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York City. He was a man of humble beginnings, a self made man. Upon graduating high school he enlisted in the United States Navy and was stationed on the USS Albany, the last two years of his four years of service he earned the position of Gig Coxswain (Admiral's personal boat Captain) and reported directly to Admiral John McCain, the father of Senator John McCain. During his tenure as Gig Coxswain he received a Commendation for Outstanding Performance from Admiral McCain, The commendation read As Gig Coxswain you have shown exceptional pride in making the Albany s Gig one of the smartest boats in the Sixth Fleet. His father had died during the period he was in the service. In 1968 Walter incorporated Earle Asphalt Company with a $25,000.00 loan from a dear personal friend. With the money he then purchased a used pickup truck, small asphalt paver, and small roller. Earle Asphalt Company's first project was for Lakehurst Naval Air Station at a price of $5,800.00. In 1974 Walter then purchased an Asphalt plant in Jackson Township from Gallo Asphalt Co., Gallo family members Mario, Gene, and Vince were instrumental lending advice and guidance during the early years of the company s incorporation. Over time the construction and manufacturing companies have evolved as industry leaders in the State of New Jersey receiving numerous National and State awards, utilizing his trademark style of Quality, Cleanliness, Integrity, and Effiency. He was also a philanthropist donating, often anonymously, money and time to many charitable organizations, including the Catholic Church, St. Rose of Lima Elementary School, Borough of Freehold Police, Freehold First Aid and Emergency Squad, and those less fortunate than he. He was on the Board of Directors of the Central Jersey Bank & Trust Company during the 1970's; Executive Board of Trustees of the Associated Independent Contractors; and the Board of Directors for the New Jersey Asphalt Pavement Association. The Funeral Liturgy will be celebrated at St. Rose of Lima Chapel, Freehold on Monday at 11:30 A.M. followed by interment at the parish cemetery. Visiting will be held at St. Rose of Lima Chapel on Monday from 9:30-11:30 A.M. Memorial donations to the St. Rose of Lima School, 51 Lincoln Place, Freehold, NJ 07728 would be appreciated. For information, contact Higgins Memorial Home, Freehold.
      