
        FOLLINI--Charles F. The beloved husband of Maria, the adored father of Christina and CJ and the cherished grandfather to Charles and Jeremiah Reen, died peacefully of natural causes on Sunday, April 25. He was 91. The son of immigrant parents and born in the Tremont section of the Bronx, Charles' abundant life was the quintessential American success story. At a young age, Charles formed the values and character that made him legendary to friends and strangers alike throughout his life. He placed utmost importance on integrity, loyalty and commitment, so much that he altered his driver's license by two years in order to join the New York Fire Department. As a Fireman 1st Class with Ladder Company 13, Charles was awarded the Walter Scott Medal for Exceptional Valor by Mayor O'Dwyer on June 3, 1946. To rescue a trapped man, Charles forced his way into a blazing building even before other firemen could put a hose to the flames or clear the place of smoke or gas. He carried the man to safety. After retiring from the NYFD, Charles and his brothers founded what became Edenwald Contracting Co, Inc. of Whitestone, Queens. By the 1980's, Edenwald had grown to become one of the largest municipal and utility contractors in New York. During his time, Charles with his brother George were the Chief Executives of the firm which performed hundreds of millions of dollars of construction projects prior to 1994. Edenwald was also responsible for such notable projects as the US Open Tennis Center in Flushing, NY, and the award-winning Washington Market Park in Tribeca. First Lady Nancy Reagan honored Charles and his company's contributions to its design and construction. In later years, Charles became a successful developer in association with the Rockefeller Group in Mount Olive, NJ, and also throughout Whitestone, Queens. Charles spent these later years devoted to his family, especially his grandsons, Charlie and Jeremiah, whose presence for a man so advanced in age was the greatest gift God could bestow. Family, friends and acquaintances honor and treasure the memory of someone so trusted that his word was his bond, and truly a man among men. Services will be held on Wednesday, April 28, at Coxe & Graziano, 767 East Boston Post Rd, Mamaroneck, NY 10543, and a Mass will be held at Our Lady of Perpetual Help, in Pelham, NY, on Thursday, April 29, at 10 am.
      