
        KUSHNER--Rae. The Board and staff of FEGS Health and Human Services System mourn the loss of Rae Kushner, beloved mother of Charles Kushner an esteemed Member of the FEGS Board of Directors. The Kushner family is renowned for its generous philanthropy and concern for Jewish education, continuity and survival. FEGS was honored that Mrs. Kushner was a guest at last years FEGS Partnerships for a Changing World Dinner at which her son Charles received FEGS' highest award. Mrs. Kushner leaves a legacy of caring, compassion and commitment that will last through the generations. We offer Charles, Seryl and the entire Kushner family our heartfelt condolences. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Joseph Stein, Jr. Pres/Chair Alfred P. Miller, CEO
        KUSHNER--Rae. The Joseph Kushner Hebrew Academy/ Kushner Yeshiva High School family mourns the loss of our school Matriarch, Mrs. Rae Kushner. Her legacy of good deeds and philanthropy will live on. Her drive and acts of kindness will continue in her wonderful children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren to whom she was devoted, as they were to her. Our heartfelt condolences go to Charles and Seryl Kushner, Linda and Murray Laulicht, Murray and Lee Kushner, Esther and William Schulder, and their families. Sidney Sayovitz, President Alice Klein, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Dr. Jeffrey Lichtman, Chairman of the Board of Education Board of Trustees Board of Education Administration, Faculty and Students
        KUSHNER--Rae. We mourn the passing of Rae Kushner, a partisan and heroine of the Holocaust, and ashet chayil and matriarch of a great family, a business leader and founder, together with her late beloved husband, Joseph of blessed memory, of Kushner Companies, a philanthropist and role model to us all. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her son Charles and daughter-in-law Seryl; grandchildren Dara and David, Jared, Nicki and Josh; and great grandchildren Nathan, Max and Benjamin; as well as to her daughter Linda and son-in-law Murray Laulicht and their children and grandchildren. May you all know only joy and simchas and no more sorrow. The Ramat Family Emil, Charles, Ora, Hana, Abe, Emma Ramat and Vera Thomas
        KUSHNER--Rae. The Touro Family mourns the loss of Mrs. Rae Kushner, the mother of our Board member Mr. Charles Kushner, and beloved family matriarch. She, along with her late husband Joseph a''h, Holocaust survivors, devoted their lives to furthering the causes of Torah education in the United States and Israel, and inspired their children and grandchildren to even greater heights. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Bernard Lander, President Dr. Mark Hasten, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        KUSHNER--Rae. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum deeply mourns the passing of Rae Kushner, a survivor of the Holocaust. As a Museum Founder, she was an early supporter whose exceptional generosity helped build the Museum and contribute to its success. The Museum extends its deepest condolences to her children Charles, a former member of the Museum's Council; Linda, who has been active with the Museum; Murray and Esther and to all members of the Kushner family. Fred S. Zeidman, Chair Ruth B. Mandel, Vice Chair Sara J. Bloomfield, Director
        KUSHNER--Rae, Mrs. On behalf of Board of Directors, families and children of Chai Lifeline, we extend our heartfelt condolences to our dear friends and supporters, Mr. Charles Kushner, Mrs. Linda Laulicht and the entire Kushner family on the untimely loss of their dear mother, Mrs. Rae Kushner. May the entire family be comforted together with all the mourners of Zion. Rabbi Simcha Scholar, Executive Vice President David Jemal, Sol Mayer, Larry Spiewak, Presidium
        KUSHNER--Rae. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva records with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of Charles Kushner, a friend and supporter of AFYBA and the State of Israel. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Marvin Bienenfeld, Chairman Alan Wildes, President
        KUSHNER--Rae. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Rae Kushner, beloved mother of our devoted members and benefactors, Murray and Lee Kushner. Our deepest sympathies to the entire Kushner family on the loss of their cherished matriarch, generous builder of Torah education. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        KUSHNER--Rae. The officers and students of Chabad House of Rutgers mourn the loss of Rae Kushner ''Aishet Chayil'' and extend our condolences to Murray, Charles, Linda and Esther and their families. Les Turchin, Chairman Rabbi Yosef Carlebach
      