
        VISCARDI--Henry, Jr., on April 13, 2004 at the age of 91. Resident of Kings Point and East Marion, NY. Beloved husband and best friend of Lucile. Cherished father of Nina (Richard Ochoa), Donna (Patrick Shooltz), Lydia, and Lucienne (James Hosford). Adoring grandfather of Adria, Emily, Mary Elizabeth, Max, William Henry, Jesse, Lydia, Jack and Ross; great-grandfather of Olivia, Justin and Hannah. Devoted brother of Rose Rosalie, friend and trusted confidante to many. The family will receive friends at Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, Friday, April 16, 3-5PM & 7-9PM. A memorial service will be held at St. Aloysius Church, 592 Middle Neck Rd, Great Neck, Saturday, April 17, at 10AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in Hank's memory may be made to the Henry Viscardi School, Attn: Development Office, 201 I.U. Willets Rd, Albertson, NY 11507.
        VISCARDI--Dr. Henry Jr., May 10, 1912 through April 13, 2004. The National Center for Disability Services, its Board of Directors, staff and faculty, donors and friends mourn the passing of its founder, Dr. Henry (Hank) Viscardi Jr. Hank's bold vision transformed the way employers, educators and policy makers around the world viewed disabilities, and laid the groundwork for landmark legislation mandating the integration of people with disabilities into everyday life. He served as an advisor on disability issues to every president from Franklin D. Roosevelt through Jimmy Carter. At the urging of Eleanor Roosevelt in 1952, he founded Abilities, Inc., a manufacturing enterprise staffed largely by injured WWII veterans. Adding vocational training pro grams, a research center, a Pre-K-12 school for children with severe medical and physical disabilities (the Henry Viscardi School), and comprehensive services for people with disabilities and businesses who employ them, the organization expanded into the present day National Center for Disability Services. Hank's contributions to education were recognized around the world. Professional organizations lauded him for his revolutionary influence on the business world's approach to employing people with disabilities. Born with underdeveloped legs at a time when people with disabilities were marginalized, Hank's vision was an outgrowth of his own physical challanges. His tenacity and belief in his potential broke down barriers for millions of his contemporaries and for generations of people with disabilities who have followed him. We extend our deepest condolences to Lucile, Hank's wife, their four daughters and sons-in-law, nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Visiting will take place at Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, NY, Friday, April 16, 3-5 and 7-9 PM. A memorial service will be held at St. Aloysius Church, 592 Middle Neck Road, Great Neck, NY, Saturday, April 17 at 10 AM. The family requests that in lieu of flowers donations be made to the Henry Viscardi School, 201 I.U. Willets Road, Albertson, NY 11507. Edmund L. Cortez, President and CEO National Center for Disabilty Services, 201 I.U. Willets Road, Albertson, NY
        VISCARDI--Dr. Henry Jr. It is with deepest sadness that we say good-bye to our cherished friend. We are honored with the memory of his wonderful life and were blessed to share his dreams and visions. Overcoming all challenges, he taught us what effect a human being can have on the world at large. Iris and Saul Katz
      