
        WINSTON--Charles C., Jr. of Rye, New York passed away on March 29, 2004. He was 96 years old. Charles was born in New York, New York on April 26, 1907 to Charles and Edna (Reitmeyer) Winston. Charles attended New York University and enjoyed a life long career in the insurance industry. Many years of which were spent as a principal in his own firm, Goestch, Steimetz and Winston. On June 4, 1932 he married Margaret Joerissen in Harrison New York. She died in June of 1993. He is also predeceased by a son, Major Charles C. Winston III, United States Air Force. Charles raised his family in Scarsdale New York before moving to White Plains in the 1960s. For the past three years he has resided at the Osborne Home in Rye New York in the company of his cherished companion Ruth Grimsey. Charles served in the United States Coast Guard Auxiliary, Third Naval Division during World War II. He was a member of the United States Power Squadron and the N Club. He was also a long standing member of Westchester Hills Golf Club. In addition to Mrs. Grimsey, he is survived by a daughter, Marcia Balzac and her husband John of Scarsdale, NY and a daughter in law Elizabeth Yaffa and her husband Earl of Armonk, NY. He is also survived by five grandchildren: Kathleen Ramsey (Craig) of Pleasantville, NY, Patricia O'Reilly (Kevin) of Mount Pleasant, SC, Kimberly Hartman (Alan) of New York, NY, Charles C. Winston IV (Julia) of Greenwich, CT, and Nancy LeRoux (Pieter) of London, England. And nine great grandchildren Elizabeth, Kristina, James, Christopher, Katie, Kyle, Max, Michael and Andy. A memorial service will be held at the McMahon, Lyon & Hartnett Funeral Home in White Plains, NY on Wednesday, April 7, 2004 at 11:00am. Following will be a luncheon at the Westchester Hills Golf Club. In lieu of flowers donations can be made to The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, 60 East 42nd Street, Suite 1563, New York, NY 10165 or to the Westchester/Putnam Special Olympics, P.O. Box 744, Holmes, New York 12531, Attn: Jerry Peters.
      