
        BENDIXEN--Henrik H. The faculty, alumni and staff of Columbia University Medical Center mourn the death of our former leader, Dr. Henrik Bendixen. He brought rare qualities to the position of vice president and dean and he made even rarer contributions while on the job. Dr. Bendixen joined the College of Physicians & Surgeons at Columbia in 1973 as professor and chairman of anesthesiology after serving in posts at the Harvard Medical School and the University of California at San Diego. He was also director of the anesthesiology service at Presbyterian Hospital. He served as acting provost and vice president for the health sciences at Columbia in 1980-81. He was named Alumni Professor for the college in 1984 and the E.M. Papper Professor of Anesthesiology in 1985. He served as vice president and dean from 1984-89 and then became senior associate vice president and senior associate dean in 1989. During his time as vice president and dean he ushered the medical center's schools into the information age. He supported creation of a medical informatics center (now a P&S department) and established the computer infrastructure that has evolved into a ubiquitous educational, clinical, research, and administrative resource. In anesthesiology he was a leader in intensive care, developed new information on the care of patients with respiratory disease, and created the medical center's first department-wide practice plan. When he was named professor emeritus of anesthesiology in 1994, a portrait was unveiled in the medical center library, where it hangs today to honor his contributions to information technology in education, clinical systems, and administration. We extend our condolences to his family and friends and pledge to continue to honor his legacy to Columbia University. Gerald D. Fischbach, M.D. Executive Vice President for Health and Biomedical Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, Columbia University
        BENDIXEN--Henrik, MD. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Henrik H. Bendixen. This distinguished physician had a long career at Columbia University Health Sciences, culminating in his appointment as Vice President for Health Sciences and Dean of the Faculty of Medicine in the late 1980's. Nursing faculty vividly remember his leadership in the crusade to save the nursing school when the University considered closing it in 1985-86. The courage of Bendixen's convictions about the value of nursing education infused the debate, and the University acceded to his plan to not only continue the school, but to launch it on the road to becoming a vibrant and innovative unit in the University, and in the profession. The faculty have been inspired by his vision for health care education and practice, and sustaining support for research. The Henrik H. Bendixen Chair in International Nursing was established in his honor at the time of his retirement. We will miss his gentle humor, steely resolve, quiet integrity and shining intellectual gifts. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Lilo, and all members of the Bendixen family. Mary O'Neil Mundinger, Dean, and the Faculty of the Columbia University School of Nursing
        BENDIXEN--Henrik, M.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague Dr. Henrik Bendixen. A physician at New York-Presbyterian Hospital for more than thirty years, Dr. Bendixen was Senior Associate Vice President for the Health Sciences, Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology, and Senior Associate Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons. Previously he served as Chairman of Anesthesiology, Dean of the Faculty of Medicine, and Director of the Anesthesiology Service. Dr. Bendixen was the epitome of grace, elegance, and character. He stepped in to direct and support the Medical Center at a critical time. We all remember him as an extraordinary physician and a man of impeccable character who instantly earned the respect and affection of everyone with whom he came into contact. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to the Bendixen family. Dr. Herbert Pardes President and CEO NY-Presbyterian Hospital
      