
        GELB--Richard L. On April 4th, 2004 at age 79. Retired CEO of Bristol-Myers Squibb. Beloved husband of Phyllis (Rusty) Gelb; loving father of Lawrence, Lucy, Jane and Jim Gelb and their spouses Frank Sisto, Anki Gelb and Jennifer Gelb. Adoring grandfather of Matthew and Andrew Sisto, Emily and Richard Gelb and James and Sophie Gelb; devoted brother Bruce and his wife Lueza. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St Wednesday, April 7th, 6-9PM with service Thursday 11:30AM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the New York Police Foundation, 345 Park Ave, NY, NY 10022.
        GELB--Richard L. Through his unique commitment, dedication and love, Dick guided us with a moving force of spirit. In helping to found our organization, he transformed an idea as a spark, into what became the New York City Police Foundation, a light that shone for cities across the nation, improving safety for citizens and police officers alike. A true pioneer, Dick applied world-class business acumen to practical problems in ways that generated the results which could be emulated by the world. For thirty years, he gave selflessly of his time and expertise, serving as Chairman of our Board of Trustees from 1974 to 1975, and as Co-Vice Chairman since 1984. He was Chairman of the Nominating Committee and a member of the Executive Committee, Compensation Committee, and Technology Campaign Steering Committee. Mr. Gelb singlehandedly improved the quality of life, and work for New York City's Police Officers by generously supporting the endeavours that matter most. Mr. Gelb matched the federal goverment's funding for the Precinct Crime Mapping Computer System, supported the Bulletproof Vest Campaign, the Technology Campaign, and provided generous support for the operating budgets, graduates of the Police Academy and the Foundation's Annual Journal and Benefit. Despite all this, and most important, Dick Gelb's contributions to the Foundation greatly exceeded what can be expressed in a simple list. Dick will never be replaced; he can only be succeeded. George D. Benjamin Chairman Pamela D. Delaney, President The Trustess of the New York City Police Foundation
        GELB--Richard L. It is with heartfelt sadness that the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Richard L. Gelb, an intelligent, caring, and generous man. Mr. Gelb joined the Lincoln Center Board in 1969 and continued as Emeritus in 1996. He received the Lincoln Center Laureate Award as Chairman of Bristol-Myers Squibb and was a generous donor to the institution both on the corporate and personal levels. Mr. Gelb's kindness and warmth were experienced by the entire Lincoln Center family and he will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family and friends. Bruce Crawford, Chairman Reynold Levy, President Martin E. Segal, Co-Chair, Directors Emeriti Counsel June Noble Larkin, Co-Chair, Directors Emeriti Counsel Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        GELB -- Richard L. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and the employees of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center note with great sorrow the death of Richard L. Gelb, our friend and colleague. For 22 years, from 1982 until his death, he provided sage leadership as a member of the MSKCC Boards of Overseers and Managers, including long service as Chairman of the Board of the Sloan-Kettering Institute. His valuable guidance, especially for the research programs at MSKCC, was offered with intelligence, wit, generosity, and a compassionate spirit. We will miss him greatly. We convey our sincere condolences to his family, including his wife Phyllis, his four children and his grandchildren. Douglas A. Warner III, Chairman Harold Varmus President, Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center
        GELB--Richard L. The staff of The New York Times Company notes with great sadness the passing of our long-time director, friend and colleague, Richard L. Gelb. During his 27 years as a member of our board of directors, Dick gave unstintingly of his wit, wisdom and humanity, as he helped guide our enterprise. He will be missed by all of us and by the many other individuals whose lives he touched during his remarkable business and philanthropic career. We extend our deepest sympathy to Dick's wife, Phyllis, and their children and grandchildren.
        GELB--Richard L. We wish to express our deepest sympathy to Rusty, his loving family and Bruce, his devoted brother. My very special friend for over 60 years will be greatly missed. The Silver Shield Foundation was honored to include Dick as a generous contributor since its inception in 1982 and a person who was committed to our mission. His involvement in so many other activities to benefit society, including among others the New York City Police Foundation, is a legacy that will always be remembered. James E. Fuchs, President Silver Shield Foundation
        GELB--Richard. 1060 Fifth Avenue mourns the passing of our dear friend and neighbor. Chairman of the Board of Directors of 1060 Fifth Avenue, displayed kindness toward our employees and his concern for his neighbors was deep and selfless. Our deepest condolences to his wife Phyllis and his brother and sister-in-law Bruce and Lueza Gelb, also our dear neighbors. Condolences as well to his children and grandchildren. The Board of Directors, Neighbors and Employees of 1060 Fifth Avenue
        GELB--Richard L. Robert M. Kaufman and the firm of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the loss of Richard L. Gelb, our longtime client and friend. We express our deep condolences to his wife, Phyllis, his children, Lawrence, Lucy, Jane and James, his brother, Bruce, his sister-inlaw, Lueza, and their children, John, Joan, Richard and Mary Constance.
        GELB--Richard L. The employees of Clairol mourn the loss of Richard L. Gelb, the former president of Clairol. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Phyllis, their children, his brother Bruce, and the entire Gelb family. Rob Matteucci, President Clairol
        GELB--Richard L. The Board of Governors and membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President
        GELB--Richard L. Rudin Management Co., Inc., and the Rudin family mourn the loss of Richard Gelb, a wonderful friend and a great New Yorker. Our deepest condolences to the Gelb family during this difficult time. Jack Rudin, Chairman
      