
        KUSHNER--Rae. The worldwide Shaare Zedek family mourns the loss of a cherished friend and a beloved matriarch. She was a gentle person who personified joy, humility, integrity and a deep sense of compassion. Rising from the indescribable horrors of the Holocaust, Mrs. Kushner with her late husband Joseph, of blessed memory, devoted their lives to ensuring the physical survival and spiritual needs of the Jewish people. A past recipient of our ''Woman of Achievement Award'', we will always be grateful for Mrs. Kushner's quick acceptance to become one of the founding members of the Women's Board and for her service as one of its Honorary Board members. Through her son Charles' service on our International Board of Directors, her daughter-in-law Seryl's participation as a member of the American Committee's National Board and the National Women's Division Board, and their status as Benefactors of the new Department of Emergency Medicine, they so meaningfully carry on Mrs. Kushner's deep devotion and commitment to providing for the medical needs of the people of Jerusalem. May the beautiful memories of the times spent together provide Charlie and members of the family with consolation, and may they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, President Dr. Jonathan Halevy Director-General Lee Weinbach, Pres Nat'l Women's Div
        KUSHNER -- Rae. Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a dear friend, prominent philanthropist, and Jewish communal leader, an honorary alumna who, together with her late, beloved husband, Joseph, contributed significantly to the advancement of Yeshiva University and the strengthening of Jewish education. The Rae Kushner Lobby of Stern College for Women on our Israel Henry Beren Campus is an enduring legacy of this gracious woman's devotion to Jewish life. She was a Guardian of YU and a Fellow of RIETS. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to the Kushner family, and especially to her children, YU Benefactors Charles and Seryl Kushner, members of the Stern College Board of Directors, Linda, Stern College Board member Murray Laulicht, Murray and Lee Kushner, and Esther and William Schulder. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman YU Board of Trustees Marjorie Diener Blenden Chairman, SCW Board of Directors
      