
        GELB--Richard L. On April 4th, 2004 at age 79. Retired CEO of Bristol-Myers Squibb. Beloved husband of Phyllis (Rusty) Gelb; loving father of Lawrence, Lucy, Jane and Jim Gelb and their spouses Frank Sisto, Anki Gelb and Jennifer Gelb. Adoring grandfather of Matthew and Andrew Sisto, Emily and Richard Gelb and James and Sophie Gelb; devoted brother Bruce and his wife Lueza. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St Wednesday, April 7th, 6-9PM with service Thursday 11:30AM. Interment private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the New York Police Foundation, 345 Park Ave, NY, NY 10022.
        GELB--Richard L. We wish to express our deepest sympathy to Rusty, his loving family and Bruce, his devoted brother. My very special friend for over 60 years will be greatly missed. The Silver Shield Foundation was honored to include Dick as a generous contributor since its inception in 1982 and a person who was committed to our mission. His involvement in so many other activities to benefit society, including among others the New York City Police Foundation, is a legacy that will always be remembered. James E. Fuchs, President Silver Shield Foundation
        GELB--Richard L. The Board of Directors of New York Life Insurance Company wishes to express its deepest sympathy on the death of Richard L. Gelb, a Director Emeritus of the Company. Mr. Gelb served with distinction as a Director for 16 years. During this time, the Company benefited from his leadership, wisdom and sense of decency. We wish to convey our sincere condolences to his family, including his wife Rusty, children and grandchildren. New York Life
        GELB--Richard L. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Citizens Crime Commission of New York City mourn the passing of Richard L. Gelb, an esteemed member of our Board. His strong leadership and wise counsel will be deeply missed. Paul S. Miller, Chairman Thomas A. Reppetto, Pres.
        GELB--Richard L. Rudin Management Co., Inc., and the Rudin family mourn the loss of Richard Gelb, a wonderful friend and a great New Yorker. Our deepest condolences to the Gelb family during this difficult time. Jack Rudin, Chairman
      