
        CYLAR--Keith. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) family joins with National Development and Research Institutes, Inc. (NDRI) to acknowledge with great sadness the passing of our dear friend and fellow AIDS researcher Keith Cylar, cofounder of Housing Works. Keith's hard work and dedication to provide minorities with greater access to AIDS drug clinical trials exemplifies his tireless efforts in fighting the AIDS epidemic. To his partner and Housing Works co-founder Charles King, his family and all those who loved him, we extend heartfelt condolences. Thomas Killip, MD Interim President/CEO, BIMC Stephen G. Baum, MD Chairman, Department of Medicine, BIMC Donna Mildvan, MD Chief, Division of Infectious Diseases, BIMC Marya Gwadz, Ph.D. Principal Investigator, NDRI
        CYLAR--Keith. The Board of Directors and members of Vidacare deeply mourn the loss of board member and founder, Keith Cylar, co-executive director and founder of Housing Works. We can hardly begin to comprehend the void created by the loss of this fearless and selfless advocate for the most disenfranchised persons living with AIDS. Our consolation goes out to the Housing Works community, and especially to Charles King, Keith's partner and soul mate. Together Charles and Keith created a model for HIV/ AIDS services and leaven for the lives of those they served. Our solace is found in the countless lives made more whole by his touch. Our solace must become our resolve to speak as fearlessly as he spoke, imagine as creatively as he imagined, and work as tireless as he worked.
        CYLAR--Keith. BTQ Financial and the Hudson Planning Group mourn the loss of advocate and friend Keith Cylar. His vision, courage, and commitment to improving the lives of homeless people living with HIV/AIDS were both inspiring and transformative; stated most simply, his work created positive change, in individual lives and throughout communities. We extend our deepest sympathies to the Housing Works community, his partner Charles King, and to the thousands of people personally touched by Keith's work. The world was made better by Keith's example; those who knew him will continue his work.
        CYLAR--Keith. The Board of Directors of the AIDS Day Services Association of New York shares the profound sadness at the loss of our colleague and friend, Keith Cylar. Keith was a national leader in the field of AIDS services, caring for the most disenfranchised in our community. His unceasing advocacy, boundless compassion, and personal courage were truly an inspiration to all of us who worked with him so closely. We express our heartfelt sympathy to Keith's devoted partner, Charles King, his family and the Housing Works community for whom he was a beacon of hope and fearless protector.
        CYLAR--Keith. Inspired all who fight for justice. Love and sympathy to Charles and Housing Works. Anne K. Johnson,
      