
        KLIOT--David, M.D. 71, beloved husband of Harriet. Loving father of Greg, Nancy and Ben. Doting grandfather of Alex and Jay. Will be greatly missed. Dr. Kliot, proponent of natural childbirth, incorporated midwifery and LeBoyer into his Brooklyn OB/GYN practice. He received his B.A. from the University of Chicago and his M.D. from SUNY Downstate, where he served as Clinical Professor of OB/GYN and President of the Alumni Associattion. Dr. Kliot was President of the Brooklyn GYN Society, an active member of AOA, ACOG and a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons. He was an award winning photographer, world traveler and loved living and raising a family in Prospect Park South, Brooklyn. Shiva at the Kliot home, Tuesday through Thursday after 4. Contributions in his memory may be made to the American Diabetes Association.
        KLIOT--David A., M.D. Died May 1, 2004 after an extended illness. The Alumni Association of the SUNY Downstate College of Medicine is saddened by the passing of this much respected past president and active Board member. Dr. Kliot graduated from medical school in 1959 and became a prominent figure in Nurse-Midwife training. He received the Alumni Service Award at the annual reunion on April 24, 2004. We will always remember Dr. Kliot for his skill as a physician; his concern for his patients; and his tireless dedication to the Alumni Association. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Harriet, and his children Gregory, Benjamin, and Nancy, and to his entire family on this sad occasion. Alumni AssociationCollege of Medicine SUNY Downstate Medical Center
        KLIOT--David, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with sorrow the death of Dr. David Kliot. Dr. Kliot was a physician with the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for many years. He will be sorely missed by all his patients, friends and colleagues. Sincere condolences are extended to his entire family. Herbert Lehman, M.D., Pres. Ira Mayer, M.D., Pres. Elect Warren Wexelman, M.D., Sec Steven Farber, M.D., Treas.
      