
        ADAMS--Warren Sanford, 2d. Was born September 4, 1910 in Cleveland, Ohio to Otis Howard Adams and Hermine Weis Adams, and raised in Framingham, Massa chusetts. He passed away peacefully at his home in Austin, Texas on Sunday, April 25, 2004. Mr. Adams was a loving father to his only child Cornelia Adams Foster and father-in-law to Mark Edward Foster, and a loving grandfather to Lucy Piper Foster and Warren Adams Foster. Mr. Adams lived in New York City for most of his adult life prior to retiring in 1976 from CPC International Inc. (formerly Corn Products Co.) for which he served as chief general counsel. In 1986, he moved to Austin, Texas. At the age of 15, Mr. Adams entered Princeton University where his nickname was ''Babe.'' He was a star ice hockey player on a stellar team in Princeton history and, but for a broken collarbone suffered in a practice, would have played on a U.S. Olympic team. He also played on the football team at Princeton. After graduating in 1930, he went on to Harvard Law School, graduating in 1934. In 1935, he joined the New York bar and was in private practice in New York City until 1940. In 1941, he received a J.S.D. from New York University. With the onset of World War II, he went to Washington, D.C. to serve in the War Production Board and later enlisted in the Marine Corps. He fought in the Pacific between 1942 and 1946, and achieved the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. Returning to New York in 1946, he went to work for Corn Products Co. For many years he served on the board of the Washington Square Fund and was a trustee of the Whitehall Foundation, Inc. He was also a member of the American Bar Association, The Pilgrims of the United States, The English Speaking Union, The Racquet and Tennis Club (NYC), the Metropolitan Opera Club of which he was a past president, the Princeton Club, Colonial (Princeton), Ekwanok Golf Club (Vermont), American Society of the Order of St. John (Knight), Royal and Ancient Golf Club (Scotland), Boodles (London), and the Union Club (NYC). He was a lifelong golfer and lover of opera. He survived four wives, including Eve Madsen Adams (medical illustrator and mother of Cornelia), Adele Thompson Adams, and Romaine Clinton Adams. (He was divorved from a first wife prior to World War II.) For most of his life he was a summer resident of a part of the New Hampshire coast called Little Boar's Head. In later years he was a summer resident of Manchester, Vermont, and, during his marriage to Romaine Adams, of Newport, Rhode Island. His family particularly wants to thank Ken Luebke and caregivers who became part of his life following a car accident in 2000; James Mendiola, Mike Arnold, Tigh Walters, and Alfredo Ruiz. A memorial service will be held in Austin, Texas at 11:00 AM on Monday, May 3, 2004 at St. Francis Episcopal Church. In lieu of flowers, memorials may be sent to Hospice Austin, 4107 Spicewood Springs Rd., Austin, TX 78759. A memorial service in New York is pending.
      