
        KNAPP--S. Magnet. On April 22, 2004 in West Palm Beach, FL at the age of 95. Painter, sculptor, enamelist. Arranged the Japan-America Women Artists Exchange Exhibition, 1960, and a similar exhibition with artists of Argentina, 1965. Both exhibitions shown in various foreign and domestic museums. Wife of the late George Knapp and sister to the late Tillie and Laura. Survived by sister Aida Born, son Malcolm and his wife Sue, and granddaughter Abigale. The family wishes to thank her care manager and friend, Cathy Harrison, and her caregivers, Mary Anderson, Uzara Little, Lillian Ratliff and Willie Mae Wright. Born in New York City. Graduated from New York Training School for Teachers; City College of New York; Brooklyn Museum Art School; Atelier 17; Sculptor Center. Exhibited at Hollywood Museum of Florida; Brooklyn Museum; Pennsylvania Academy; Corcoran Gallery of Art; Baltimore Museum; Butler Institute of Art; Silvermine Guild; American Art Today -World's Fair 1964; and in Canada, England, France, Switzerland, Argentina, Mexico, Japan, India, Scotland and Italy. In the collections of the Georgia Museum of Art; Norfolk Museum; Riverside Museum; and private collectors. Enamels instructor at Worcester Crafts Center. Past president, National Association of Women Artists; United States Delegate, International Association of Art in Japan. Member of the National Association of Women Artists; National Society of Painters in Casein; American society of Contemporary Artists; Artists Craftsmen of New York; Baltimore Watercolor Club and Artists Equity. Recipient of awards from the Baltimore Museum; Argent Gallery; Silvermine Guild; National Academy of Design; American Art Heritage Show; and of the Cramer Prize and others. Listed in Who's Who of American Women; Who's Who in American Art; Who's Who in the East; Fellow, International Institute of Arts and Letters; Dictionary of International Biography: Two Thousand Women of Distinction; Who's Who of Women. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory may be made to the S. Magnet Knapp Award, National Association of Women Artists, 80 5th Avenue, Suite 1405, New York, New York 10011. Private services.
      