
        MARCU--Eva D. (nee Gerson), Ph.D. Died at the age of 96 on May 12th, 2004. She was born in Dahlem, Germany, and had an epic life both astounding, amazing and distressing. Her father was a Socialist and the kindest man imaginable. He was a philanthropist, giving his wealth to those who had less than he. He persisted in his altruism giving to so many and was betrayed in Marseilles by, it is believed, his driver, and sent to a concentration camp where he was slaughtered with millions of others. Eva married a Rumanian writer, Valeriu, who had left Bucharest quite early in his adult life for Berlin, where he met his future wife at her father's at one of his famed social revelries. Valeriu was always the life blood of any celebration and went to countless such evenings. Her brother was a gentle soul who died at their house in Grasse, in the South of France, where he lived after the war. He had been in British intelligence. With the threat of WWII, Eva and Valeriu moved to Nice, France where Valeriu helped Varien Fry liberate and help to emigrate thousands of artists. It was in Nice where the Marcu's gave birth to a girl, whom they named Miki. Eva and Valeriu, moved to the U.S. (with the help of significant writers given special visa for authors and other intellectuals) and escaped the Nazis. Valeriu died in New York some years later at the age of 40. Eva, therefore, lost the three most momentous men in her life within a few years of each other. She was always the most munificent person (inheriting her father's trait) and gave money, time and her enormous soul to those whom she also thought had less than she, at a time when she had very little. Her gifts were at all times anonymous. She had the soul of an angel, but too unassuming to ever understand or recognize compliments. Her curiosity was inexhaustible and her intelligence dazzling and incomparable. She was Professor of literature at various Universities (Columbia, Mannes, Rutgers), and wrote books and articles, the most significant of which are the maxims of Montaigne and her analysis on the injurious Nationalism of the 16th century and her hero of heroes. Mme de Sevigne (1646-1705), whose letters warmed Eva's heart. She was her hero of heroes. She cherished languages and spoke several. In her 80's and on, she forced herself to translate an hour of Latin each evening, thinking she would stave off Alzheimer's. She hated those hours, but made this bargain between the devil and her brain. In March 2003, afraid that her health was failing and that she would be a burden to her daughter, as the indomitable woman she was, without ever seeking advice or consent, decided to move to an independent living home at the Hebrew Home in Riverdale, (coincidentally, the same city where her husband had died). After 8 months her leg was arterially so clogged that nothing other than amputation above the knee was possible. From then on her health declined and she went from her charming apartment overlooking the Hudson and the woods, to the hospital and rehabilitation home then back to her apartment. She quickly deteriorated. She was at all times grace under trauma. Despite her brilliance, modesty prevented her from recognizing how many people cared for her. While in the hospital and at home she received ca. 200 email letters and cards and telephone calls. Her daughter, so inestimably grief-stricken inconsolably mourns her.
      