
        PASSIN--Helen Latham. On May 7 at age 82, of complications following pneumonia. After serving in the Army during World War II and making (only!) one parachute jump that she never tired recounting the horrors of, Helen fled her frigid New England roots for the infinitely more cosmopolitan and romantic surroundings of her beloved New York City. She led a successful and varied career in the media and the fashion world, working as a researcher and interviewer for The New Yorker and NBC's ''Today Show'' and ''The Tex & Jinx Show.'' She later served as director of public relations for Best & Co., Franklin-Simon and Lord & Taylor. For most of the 1960s, she was a principal in her own firm with partner and former supermodel Muriel Maxwell, directing the promotional efforts of such designers and accounts as James Galanos, Arnold Scaasi, Kislav Gloves, London Fog and Marcel Rochas. She also served as Fashion Editor for American Weekly, where she worked extensively with leading fashion photographer (and lifelong friend) J. Frederick Smith. She was married for more than 40 years to renowned Japanologist and Columbia University professor Herbert Passin, who pre-deceased her in 2003. It was from the couple's extraordinary Garment Center penthouse loft in the shadow of the Empire State Building that Helen truly established her credentials as an entertainer, friend and mentor to the famous, would-be famous and not-so-famous. With the ease and dexterity of a bartender at the Ritz, she mixed brilliant academics with sixfoot tall fashion models, and futurologists like Herman Kahn and writers like Leo Rosten with musicians, vagabonds, journalists, visiting professors, earnest young graduate students and even, occasionally, impoverished undergrads. It was always a combination of refined elegance and down-to-earth humor. In the process, Helen took many friends, both young and old, under her wing, dispensing advice, wisdom and -- always -- strong opinions wherever she went. When the Passins later moved their base to a sprawling apartment in Morningside Heights, the views of Manhattan may have suffered, but not the personal and family friendships. A large group of admirers gathered there one last time this past week to toast her extraordinary life. She is survived by a son, Scott Latham; three step-children, John Latham, Katharine Butler and Tom Passin; and five grandchildren, Victoria Latham, and James, Laura and Mark Passin, and Luke Butler. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, Tel: 212794-9200.
      