
        O'BRIEN--Mary K. A beloved teacher, linguist, and story teller, Mary K. O'Brien died on Sunday, May 16th. From her mother she inherited a passion for teaching, and from her father the art of story telling. Laughter with an ironic twist was always the common denominator. Ms. O'Brien, the daughter of the late Frank J. and Agnes Ring O'Brien, was born in Cleveland, OH, and grew up in Meriden, CT. Ms. O'Brien, who taught French and the Classics for nearly 50 years, graduated from Albertus Magnus College with a major in Classics, entered the Dominican Sisters of Columbus, OH in 1943, received her MA in French literature at Fordham University, studied in France on a summer Fulbright grant, and taught in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, as well as at Mary Immaculate School in Ossining, NY, Dominican Academy and the Rhodes School, both in Manhattan. After leaving the Dominican community in 1973, she taught until 1987 in New Jersey's Morris Hills Regional school system where she relished deep friendships with colleagues and students for the rest of her life. While leading a student group to France in 1969, she met Mr. Jerry Berlin who has remained her dear companion and confidant until her death. Together, they welcomed friends and relatives to her New Jersey home. An avid world traveler who studied Spanish and Italian at an advanced age, she served as a lector and eucharistic minister in her parish until her recent illness. Deeply committed to peace, Ms. O'Brien deplored our country's preemptive war policy. In addition to Mr. Berlin of Manhattan, Ms. O'Brien leaves behind two sisters, A. Geraldine Sullivan of Wellesley, MA and Joan O'Brien of Carbondale, IL, a brother and his wife, Honorable Francis J. and Ann G. O'Brien of Meriden, CT, and numerous beloved nieces and nephews. The funeral will be held at Norman Dean Home for Services, 16 Righter Ave, Denville, NJ (www.normandean.com Light a Candle at website), on Thursday at 8:30AM for a 9:30AM Liturgy for Christian Burial service at St. Catherine of Siena Church in Mountain Lakes, NJ. Friends will be received Wednesday 2-4 & 79PM. Memorial donations to Atlantic Home Care and Hospice, 33 Bleeker Street, Millburn, NJ 07041.
      