
        CHWATT--Edward A. Late Sunday afternoon I retrieved a phone message that started, ''I have bad news'' and the news was indeed very bad; not only had a valued client, but a friend, Ed Chwatt had suddenly died. The shock was profound. Ed is not a person one remotely associates with death. Being such a vital, energetic, humane and charming person, he belongs to that rare breed of individual that others refuse to acknowledge as mortal. On behalf of my accounting firm, H.J. Behrman and Company, LLP, as well as personally, my sincerest condolences are expressed to Ed Chwatt's wife, Sara; his children, Mitchell, Eric, Jill and Samantha; his brother, Richard; his grandchildren and the entire Chwatt family as well his extended business family and the staff at Chwatt Associates. From a business standpoint, Ed was fair, honorable and appreciative, a stand-up Brooklyn guy. His loss, however, is personally felt beyond a business relationship. After the initial disbelief, my feelings were automatically transformed to tears. My body was instinctively saying without words how I felt about Ed Chwatt. Once Ed suggested I consider what he had done by explaining to my elderly, infirm parents how much I loved them and appreciated what they had done for me. I told him my parents already intuitively understood how grateful I am. Ed responded, of course they do, but tell them anyway. They'll be glad you did and so will you. In that regard, I hope Ed intuitively understood that he was a respected friend of mine. Goodbye, friend. Neal Klinger
        CHWATT--Edward A. On May 1, 2004. A powerful, loving, supportive and stable force in our lives was transformed by the sudden passing of our beloved husband, father, stepfather, brother, grandpa, uncle and friend. He was an adoring husband to Sara, whom he cherished. He was a fiercely devoted father to Mitchell, Sara, Jill, Eric, Nancy, Samantha and Jimm. Eddie was a loving brother and best friend to Robyn and Richard, with whom he shared an extraordinary and unbreakable bond. He delighted in spending time with his grandchildren Sammie, Justin, Corey, Nikki, Dana, Lauren, Kayla and Sierra, all of whom he adored. He loved his nieces and nephews Glenn, Lori, Suzy, Craig, Jaime and Evan. He prized his many friends with whom he shared priceless memories and strong ties. His love, energy, charisma, sense of humor and generosity touched many and as a result he enriched the world. He will continue to guide us, fill us with love and be an ongoing light in our lives. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC, Wednesday, May 5, 2:30 p.m. Donations in his memory may be made to Congregation Schomre Israel, 18 Park Avenue, Poughkeepsie, NY 12603.
        CHWATT--Edward A. Today the world is a much sadder place after your passing. We are all much poorer because of our loss of you. At the same time, our lives have been enriched by our memories of you, which will endure for the rest of our lives. Your unequalled kindness, loyalty and generosity of spirit marked a unique friendship, lasting almost four decades, until your untimely death. Your exceptional ability as the ''consummate listener''-to help a loved one or friend feel that he or she was the only person in your world-was a source of immeasurable comfort that enriched all of us who were favored with your attention. Your warmth will stay with us always. Our deepest heartfelt condolences reach out to Sara, Mitchell and Sarah, Jill, Eric and Nancy, Samantha and Jimm, Richard and Robyn, and all the grandchildren. We will miss our dearest friend. Love, Sugar and Jerry and the Schrager Family
        CHWATT -- Edward. Our heartfelt condolences to the Chwatt family on their loss of this special man. His love & devotion of family will be remembered and cherished forever. A person with great charm, style & warmth, his gracious & caring ways will be missed but never forgotten by all who were fortunate to have known & loved him. The Friedmans
        CHWATT--Edward. ''Uncle Edward,'' we will never forget you! We shared a wonderful friendship and many good times. You were always there for our family. We already miss your infectious smile and warm embrace. Our love and condolences to Sara, Mitchell and Sara, Jill, Eric and Nancy, Samantha and Jimm and the Chwatt family. Brett and Debbie Rosen
        CHWATT--Edward A. Friend, partner, confidant for over 60 years. Taken from us too soon. We will miss you forever. Our hearts go out to Sara, Mitchell, Jill, Eric, Nancy, Sara, Samantha and Jimm, grandchildren and brother Richard. Harriet and Ashley, Steven, and Stacy, Mark and Tammy, Andrew and Lisa
        CHWATT--Edward A. The Partners of London Terrace Gardens mourn the passing of Edward Chwatt. Our deepest condolences to Sara, Mitchell and Sara, Jill, Eric and Samantha and all the grandchildren and to Richard and Robyn. We will forever miss Eddie for his wisdom and guidance.
        CHWATT -- Edward. Dear Friend, you left so suddenly without saying goodbye. We will miss you terribly. Our deepest sympathy to Sara, Mitchell, Jill, Eric, Richard, Samantha and the entire Chwatt family. Judy and Jerry
        CHWATT -- Edward. Your love, laughter and wisdom will live on forever. To our darling Sara, Richard and the entire Chwatt family, we mourn with you. Love, Arlene and Morty and Truen Family
        CHWATT--Edward. Mildred Dworetz and the Ralston, Baron, and Dworetz families mourn the passing of their beloved friend and respected partner, ''Eddie.''
        CHWATT--Edward A. You will never be forgotten. To the best boss ever from the partners and staff of Atlantic Westerly.
        CHWATT--Edward. A close friend and longstanding client. We all will miss you. Global Planning Corporation
      