
        URBAN--Sally. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Yaakov Y. Kermaier, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman J. Ezra Merkin, President
        URBAN--Sarah (Sally) on May 26, 2004. Beloved daughter of the late Ida and Louis Bursky. Cherished wife of Martin Urban, of blessed memory. Loving mother of Goldy and Arthur Fried and Lois and Gerald Kirsh. Cherished grandmother of Lisa and Michael Greenberg, Steven and Robin Fried and Roy Israel Kirsh. Adoring great-grandmother of Martin, Abagail, Gillian, Max and Nicole. Sister of the late Rose Bursky. We will miss her sharp intellect, keen humor and spunk. We celebrate her long life and pray that she rest in peace.
        URBAN--Sally. We mourn the loss of this matriarch who personified understated elegance and charm. A Diamond Founder, she was consistently generous and warmly supportive of our mandate to provide ultra-modern and compassionate health care to the people of Jerusalem. She was also dedicated to a wide variety of charitable causes that strengthen the American Jewish community. She passed on her deep commitment to the medical center to her daughters, Lois Kirsh, a member of our Women's Division Board, and Goldy Fried. Both are Founders in their own right. Sincerest condolences to Lois and Goldy. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem Erica Jesselson, Chair Menno Ratzker, Pres. Sidney G. Adler, Treasurer Lee Weinbach, Pres Nat'l Women's Div Paul S. Glasser, Nat'l Dir.
        URBAN--Sarah (Sally). Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Sally Urban, beloved mother of Lois, sisterhood Co-President, and Gerald Kirsh, grandmother of Roy, devoted members and supporters of our synagogue and day school. To them and the entire family, our deepest sympathy. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        URBAN--Sarah (Sally). Park East Synagogue Sisterhood mourns the passing of Sally Urban, mother of Lois Kirsh, our dedicated Co-President. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ninette Stiskin, Co-President Maguy Naparstek, Chairman
        URBAN--Sarah (Sally). Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School mourns the death of Sally Urban, beloved mother of Lois and Gerald Kirsh, benefactors and supporters of Jewish education.
      