
        COK--Andres. Beloved husband of Violeta, revered father of Silvia and Vivian, respected father-in-law of Manny Wong, passed away on May 23rd in a swimming accident in Miami Beach, FL. He was 84. Andres was loved and respected by all those who were fortunate to know him during his full and interesting life. Happiest when surrounded by his five grandchildren: Olivia, Sabrina, and Marissa Wong, of Miami, FL; and Andrew and Jacqueline Chang, of Fresh Meadows, NY, he cherished his family and friends. Andres spent his early years in his hometown village of Toi San, in southern China. Fleeing the ravages of the Sino-Japanese conflict in 1939, he joined his brother Gustavo in Havana, Cuba. After finishing his studies and completing a stint as assistant secretary to the Chinese Ambassador in Venezuela, he returned to Havana where he established himself as an entrepreneur, owning and managing a food market in La Vibora, a suburb of Havana, and marrying Violeta Pons, the love of his life, with whom he shared fifty-one years of marriage. In 1960, Andres once again uprooted himself and his family to seek ideological and economic freedom away from Fidel Castro's oppressive regime, this time making one final and decisive journey to New York City. After a persistent and laborious start, he simultaneously built up a soy and rice products business, while developing a strong presence in NYC's Chinatown community. He served several terms as President of the CubanChinese Association as well as the Toi San High School Alumni Association, engaging their members in many charitable and communityoriented activities. Having touched the hearts and minds of many, Andres will be dearly missed. The family will receive friends at Wah Wing Sang Funeral Home at 26 Mulberry St. in New York City on Monday, May 31st. A graveside ceremony and burial will take place the following day at noon at Evergreen Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to one's favorite charity.
      