
        ROSENBERG--Sonia. Passed away on Friday, May 7th, 2004. Survived by her loving daughter, Susan, dear son-inlaw, Stuart, and beloved grandchildren, Darin and Danielle. She was the former president of the Sunny and Abe Rosenberg Foundation, lifelong trustee of the Charles Guttman Foundation and generous benefactor to countless philanthropic organizations in Israel, Palm Beach and New York City. Graveside service Wednesday, May 12th at 2:45PM at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, 7800 Myrtle Ave, Glendale NY. For directions, please call the cemetery at 718-821-0200. The Shiva will be directly after the burial on Wednesday until 9PM at her home, 980 Fifth Ave., apt 21A (corner of 79th Street)
        ROSENBERG -- Sonia. You were our guardian angel and matriarch. Our appreciation for not only the generosity you showed us, but always feeling so proud of you and our uncle Abe's wholehearted charitable work. Your ''Sunny'' personality will be missed by us forever. Our sweet mother, Selma Gore, who so recently passed, adored you. Our only solace is imagining you both embracing again. Your legacy of love, compassion and family has already been passed on to our exceptional cousins Susan Goldstein, her husband Stuart and their children, Darin and Danielle. We love you Aunt Sunny, more than you ever knew and no less than you deserved. The Gore family
        ROSENBERG--Sonia. Passed away in Florida at the age of 93 on May 7, 2004. She was a proud and beautiful woman. She was the baby in her family, youngest of four--Fanny, Rebecca and Martha--then ''Sunny.'' We sadly lost my brother Michael last year and recently lost her very special niece, Selma Gore. She had her children late in life and, because of that, she worried so about us, which I now understand completely, having children of my own. I think she wanted to be with my brother and me more than anything else, but, her late husband, Abe Rosenberg, needed her by his side, because of his business commitments. This was extremely important to her and their relationship. She needed him as much as he needed her. She took care of the rest of her family until she had my brother and me years later. I now understand what she had to give up for us and our lives, and I came to realize that financial success does not make you happy, but it's what you give back that truly brings joy to oneself. She had much to give and taught me that you can do many things even when you are not always doing what you want to do. She and Dad gave me that kernel of strength throughout my life, no matter how difficult the time was. I give them much credit for being together all those years and will miss her dearly. I especially will miss her now since we finally developed a close relationship over the past few years. Mom, I will think of you often, but I am glad you are finally out of all your suffering. And Thank God for Ruby, who not only understood her but also loved her dearly and was an inspiration for all of us throughout our lives and continues to be a source of strength for me. I Love You, Mom Susan
        ROSENBERG--Sonia. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Sonia Rosenberg, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Sonia and her late husband, Abraham, ex pressed an unwavering commitment to Jewish and other humanitarian causes through the extraordinary generosity of the Sunny and Abe Rosenberg Foundation. Their contributions will continue to make a difference in the lives of those in need. We extend our deepest sympathies to Sonia's daughter, Susan, and to the entire Rosenberg family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Executive V.P. and CEO
        ROSENBERG -- Sonia. The Board of Directors and staff of the Stella and Charles Guttman Foundation mourn the loss of our much loved and revered Board member, Sonia ''Sunny'' Rosenberg. Sunny was a remarkable woman of grace and accomplishment, and we honor her for her important contribution and many years of service to the Guttman Foundation. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her daughter, Susan Rosenberg Goldstein, and her family.
      