
        CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd. The Atlantic Salmon Federation mourns the loss of our dear friend, former Chairman and longtime Board Member. Joe's passion for Atlantic salmon fishing inspired his involvement as a leader in the conservation movement. His great determination to save the wild Atlantic salmon was matched by his generosity and he supported many programs invaluable to the salmon's survival. The salmon greatly benefited from his vitality and resourcefulness, the same characteristics that made him a leader of industry in the United States. His expertise and support greatly assisted the Atlantic Salmon Federation in achieving recognition as the leading Atlantic salmon conservation organization in the world. Joe Cullman was a remarkable man who lived an extraordinary life. We shall greatly miss this man who excelled as business leader, a sportsman and a conservationist who considered himself to be ''A Lucky Guy.'' Donal C. O'Brien, Jr., Chairman, ASF (US) Michael Meighen, Chairman, ASF (Canada) R. William Taylor, President and CEO, ASF
        CULLMAN--Joseph. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Joseph Cullman III, business leader, and beloved husband of the late Joan Cullman. Joseph and Joan, treasured friends of UJA-Federation, were deeply devoted to the Jewish community, humanitarian causes, and cultural arts initiatives. Through their enthusiastic leadership, they strengthened our ability to serve those in need, making a profound impact through their generosity and warmth. We extend our deepest sympathies to Joseph's daughter, Dorothy; his brothers Edgar and Lewis; and the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3rd. On behalf of the Trustees, Council, and Staff of the Gomez Foundation for Mill House, we extend our heartfelt condolences to Dorothy Treisman, Joel Treisman, and Jeffrey Treisman on the passing of their dear father and grandfather, and to the extended family of Joseph F. Cullman, 3rd. Joe Cullman was the Founder and guiding light of our Foundation, which he founded 35 years ago to preserve and maintain for the enjoyment of the public, the historic Gomez Mill House established in 1714 by his ancestor, Luis Moses Gomez. Joe, you will be greatly missed. Robert A. Jacobs, President Ruth K. Abrahams, Exec Dir William Maurer, Museum Dir
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3rd The students, faculty, staff, and alumni of Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, note with sorrow the death of a dedicated benefactor and friend. Richard L. McCormick, Pres.
      