
        La VINE--Kenneth Nettleton of Vero Beach, FL died at his home on May 9, 2004. He was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1911, a son of the late Louis and Irene (Nettleton) La Vine. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1932 and from Yale Law School in 1935, where he was a member of the Yale Law Journal and was elected to the Order of The Coif, the national honorary legal society. Mr. La Vine joined the law firm of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle in New York in 1935 where he remained until the outbreak of World War II. During the war, Mr. La Vine served in the U.S. Army 77th Division and ''Ultra'' in Army Intelligence in Washington, DC. On his return from the Army, Mr. La Vine rejoined the law firm and was a partner from 1950 until his retirement in 1981. For many years, Mr. La Vine was a director of Carlisle Corporation, Dover Corporation, The Leach Corporation and a number of other companies. During that time, Mr. La Vine lived in Forest Hills, NY. After his retirement, he and his wife, the former Mary Virginia Dailey, relocated to Florida. In 1998, they moved to Vero Beach, FL, where he was a parishioner of St. John of The Cross. An avid tennis and platform tennis player, he was a longtime member of The West Side Tennis Club in Forest Hills, NY. Mr. La Vine was predeceased by his daughter, Carol A. Coogan. He is survived by his wife of 61 years, his son Kenneth N. La Vine Jr. and his wife, Angel, his daughter, Linda Johnson and her husband, John, his son-in-law, James M. Coogan; five grandchildren, and one great grandson. Mr. La Vine will be reposing at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave. NYC on Wednesday, May 12, visiting hours 2-4 PM and 6-8 PM. A Funeral Mass will becelebrated at St. Thomas More Catholic Church, 65 East 89th Street, New York, on May 13 at 10 A.M. In lieu of flowers, the family requests memorial contributions be made to the Hudson Valley National Foundation, 21 Scarsdale Road, Yonkers, NY 10707 in memory of his daughter, Carol A. Coogan, or to the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, 107 East 70th St., NY, NY 10021.
        La VINE--Kenneth N. of Vero Beach, FL, died on May 9, 2004. His partners and colleagues at Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle, remember him as an outstanding corporate lawyer of impeccable integrity and always a reliable counselor in the most difficult circumstances. We extend our deepest sympathy and condolence to his wife, Mary Virginia, and to his family. Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle-LLP
      