
        CHWATT--Edward A. On May 1, 2004. A powerful, loving, supportive and stable force in our lives was transformed by the sudden passing of our beloved husband, father, stepfather, brother, grandpa, uncle and friend. He was an adoring husband to Sara, whom he cherished. He was a fiercely devoted father to Mitchell, Sara, Jill, Eric, Nancy, Samantha and Jimm. Eddie was a loving brother and best friend to Robyn and Richard, with whom he shared an extraordinary and unbreakable bond. He delighted in spending time with his grandchildren Sammie, Justin, Corey, Nikki, Dana, Lauren, Kayla and Sierra, all of whom he adored. He loved his nieces and nephews Glenn, Lori, Suzy, Craig, Jaime and Evan. He prized his many friends with whom he shared priceless memories and strong ties. His love, energy, charisma, sense of humor and generosity touched many and as a result he enriched the world. He will continue to guide us, fill us with love and be an ongoing light in our lives. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC, Wednesday, May 5, 2:30 p.m. Donations in his memory may be made to Congregation Schomre Israel, 18 Park Avenue, Poughkeepsie, NY 12603.
        CHWATT--Edward A. Today the world is a much sadder place after your passing. We are all much poorer because of our loss of you. At the same time, our lives have been enriched by our memories of you, which will endure for the rest of our lives. Your unequalled kindness, loyalty and generosity of spirit marked a unique friendship, lasting almost four decades, until your untimely death. Your exceptional ability as the ''consummate listener''-to help a loved one or friend feel that he or she was the only person in your world-was a source of immeasurable comfort that enriched all of us who were favored with your attention. Your warmth will stay with us always. Our deepest heartfelt condolences reach out to Sara, Mitchell and Sarah, Jill, Eric and Nancy, Samantha and Jimm, Richard and Robyn, and all the grandchildren. We will miss our dearest friend. Love, Sugar and Jerry and the Schrager Family
        CHWATT--Edward. Edward Chwatt was like a father to me. When I heard the news on Saturday I was shocked and overwhelmed. Ed was not only a business associate and a friend but a guiding force in my life. My friendship with the Chwatt family is one that I will cherish forever and he will forever be in my thoughts and my heart. Sara, Eric, Mitchell, Jill, Samantha, we are always here for you. Ed, we will miss you. Richard Chipman and the Chipman family
        CHWATT--Edward A. Friend, partner, confidant for over 60 years. Taken from us too soon. We will miss you forever. Our hearts go out to Sara, Mitchell, Jill, Eric, Nancy, Sara, Samantha and Jimm, grandchildren and brother Richard. Harriet and Ashley, Steven, and Stacy, Mark and Tammy, Andrew and Lisa
        CHWATT--Edward A. Each and every one in our family were truly and gratefully blessed to have known such an extraordinary human being, friend, father figure and boss. Words cannot describe our loss. Our hearts mourn for you today and always. The Grew Family
        CHWATT--Edward. A smile, a nod, a hug, a look with those piercing blue eyes. We will miss you forever. Our love and deepest sympathy to Eric and Nancy and the entire Chwatt family. Love, Jill and Ira Perlman
        CHWATT -- Edward. Dear Captain, the Grey Team will never be the same. Your loyal general and friend. Harris Shapiro and family
        CHWATT--Edward A. You will never be forgotten. To the best boss ever from the partners and staff of Atlantic Westerly.
      