
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened at the death of beloved Joe, bereft and dispirited by the painful loss of Joan just six weeks ago. Joe avidly seconded Joan's devoted commitment to Lincoln Center Theater and was wonderfully supportive and enthusiastic about the plays. Joe's autobiography, aptly titled ''I'm a Lucky Guy'', sums up Joe's sense of how his life turned out. Those who knew him well and enjoyed his friendship and generous spirit were also ''lucky guys''. We send condolences to Joe's family and colleagues. John B. Beinecke Chairman John Chalsty President Andre Bishop Artistic Director Bernard Gersten Executive Producer
        CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd, The Board of Directors and Staff of the International Tennis Hall of Fame mourn the loss of our friend, former President and Chairman Emeritus. During his leadership in the 1980s, he saw the Newport Casino, home to the Hall of Fame, restored to its original grandeur and named a National Historic Landmark. A warm, generous and committed supporter for more than 30 years, he was greatly honored to be inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1990, as a contributor to the sport. Joe Cullman was truly special and will be deeply missed by all who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family.
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3rd. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of our most esteemed congregant, co-chair of our Board of Honorary Trustees and benevolent philanthropist, Joseph F. Cullman 3rd. Our congregation and community will acknowledge his spirit forever and cherish his memory. We extend our deepest condolences to his entire family. May his memory be for a blessing always. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. III. The Sabin family mourns the loss of their dear friend Joseph F. Cullman III. His devotion and generosity to environmental causes will be remembered forever. His dedication and selfless committment to everything he was involved with will also be remembered forever. We extend our most sincere condolences to the Cullman family. Andrew Sabin
        CULLMAN--Joseph. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our neighbor and dear friend, Joe Cullman. An esteemed and active member of our cooperative, we will miss him and extend our deepest condolences to the Cullman family. The 19 East 72nd St Corp Cary A. Koplin, President
        CULLMAN -- Joseph. His friends and admirers at HEAF-The Harlem Educational Activities Fund note with sadness the passing of Joe Cullman, a fine human being who will be greatly missed. Daniel Rose, Chairman
      