
        ABERBACH--Julian J., 95, of New York City, New York, Southampton, New York, Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of 50 years of Anne Marie Aberbach, loving father of Belinda Aberbach Stevenson Agar, loving grandfather of Vanessa Stevenson, Elie Stevenson, Max Stevenson, Ezra Stevenson and Chloe Agar, passed away of heart failure in New York City on Monday, May 17, 2004. Julian J. Aberbach was one of the most respected names in American music publishing as well as music publishing around the world. Having emigrated to America from Austria, he served in WWII in the U.S. Army receiving his commission as Second Lieutenant and served as a multilingual liaison with officers of the Free French. He became interested in country music and developed a major music publishing enterprise along with his brother Joachim Jean Aberbach. Major names in Nashville music such as Red Foley, Ernest Tubb, Johnny Cash, Eddie Arnold, Bill Monroe, Left Frizzel and Hank Snow accounted for close to 75% of Hill and Range Songs' country music hits. One of the most significant publishing deals ever made by the Aberbachs was the acquisition of the exclusive publishing rights to the music of Elvis Presley in 1955. By the early 1970's the Aberbach business had become a worldwide music force. Julian Aberbach was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame on June 15, 2000. Julian and Jean Aberbach went on to develop as major figures in the art world as owners of the Aberbach Fine Art Gallery in New York City. He lost his brother in 1992. Additionally, Mr. Aberbach received the Legion of Honor in June 2003 in recognition of his unique contribution to French culture. He was dearly loved and he will be greatly missed. Services will be held at the Riverside Chapel, 180 W. 76 St, NYC, at 10 A.M. on Wednesday, May 19, 2004. Interment will follow at the Independent Jewish Cemetery in Sag Harbor, NY.
        ABERBACH--Julian J. The Officers and the Board of Directors of The Southampton Fresh Air Home mourn the passing of Julian J. Aberbach, an esteemed friend to the Home and a committed and faithful long-time supporter of its work. His generosity, his enthusiasm and his commitment to the welfare of physically challenged children will be sadly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Anne Marie, to his daughter Belinda and to his grandchildren. Pamela J. Michaelcheck, President Executive Committee and Board of Directors, The Southampton Fresh Air Home
        ABERBACH -- Julian. We mourn the passing of our illustrious benefactor, eponym of The Hampton Synagogue Aberbach Gallery, dedicated in memory of his sons Ronny and Dolfi. Our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Anne Marie, daughter Belinda, grandchildren and to the entire family. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Pres. Seymour G. Siegel, Treas.
        ABERBACH -- Julian. Hus band of our dear friend AnneMarie. Father of Belinda. Grandfather of Vanessa, Ellie, Ezra, Max and Chloe. A man of brilliance, integrity and foresight. He was loved, admired and above all a very good friend. Thank you for all the precious times spent together. We'll miss you dearly. Mr. & Mrs. Richard Strauss Mr. & Mrs. Frank Morini
      