
        CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd on April 30, 2004 at age 92. Loving father of Dorothy Treisman. Dear grandfather of Joel and Jeffrey Treisman, stepfather of Bernard Straus, Jr. and Tracy Straus and great grandfather of three. Devoted brother of Edgar M. and Lewis B. Cullman. Interment private. Memorial service Friday, May 21st at 3:30 pm at the American Museum of Natural History. Contributions in his memory may be made to World Wildlife Fund or The Atlantic Salmon Federation.
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3RD Altria Group, Inc. (formerly Philip Morris Companies Inc.) notes with great sorrow the death of Joseph F. Cullman 3rd, a former company Chairman Emeritus and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Philip Morris Incorporated. He was 92. A legendary figure in the history of Philip Morris, Mr. Cullman also ranks among the most important American chief executives in the generation that emerged following World War II. During his 21 years of service as chief executive from 1957 to 1978, Marlboro became one of the world's most valuable brands. At a time in the late 1950s and early 1960s when most American companies tended toward parochialism, Mr. Cullman had the vision to see opportunities outside the U.S. and helped to build a $1.8 billion international tobacco business by the time he retired. Additionally, a number of acquisitions in the consumer goods business, such as Miller Brewing Company, helped lay the groundwork for the company's successful diversification into the food business in the 1980s and 1990s. Under Mr. Cullman, the company also greatly expanded its philanthropic activities, becoming a significant contributor to the arts, among other areas. Mr. Cullman was himself a committed outdoorsman, conservationist and philanthropist, serving as chairman of the Atlantic Salmon Federation and on the board of the World Wildlife Fund. He also formed the Cullman Wildlife Project in Tanzania. In addition, Mr. Cullman served as Chairman of the U.S. Open Tennis Championship and as Chairman of the Tennis Hall of Fame. During World War II, Mr. Cullman distinguished himself as a U.S. Navy commander in the Pacific. He was awarded a Commendation Ribbon with seven stars for his service. Mr. Cullman led an extraordinary life and left behind a substantial legacy, not only in business, but in his service to his country and the numerous causes he believed in and supported. The Altria Board of Directors and employees of Altria's companies, pay warm tribute to Mr. Cullman's memory and his many accomplishments, and extend their deepest sympathy to his family. Mr. Cullman is survived by a daughter, Dorothy Cullman Treisman and his brothers, Edgar M. Cullman and Lewis B. Cullman. In addition to his daughter and brothers, Mr. Cullman is survived by two grandsons, Joel H. Treisman and Jeffrey D. Treisman; two stepchildren, Tracy Straus and Barnard S. Straus; and two greatgrandchildren.
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3rd. The Board of Trustees and staff of the American Folk Art Museum record with sorrow the death of their dear friend and colleague, Joseph F. Cullman 3rd, a Trustee Emeritus of the Museum. A consummate sportsman and conservationist, Joe was a generous patron of the arts and an enthusiastic supporter of the Museum. His encouragement and wise counsel were springboards to the realization of the Museum's dreams for a new home in New York. He will be remembered by us with affection and esteem, not only for his benefactions, but for the quality of his friendship, his gentlemanly grace and the engaging sparkle in his eye. To all the members of Joe Cullman's family goes this sincere expression of our deepest sympathy. Ralph Esmerian, Chairman L. John Wilkerson, President Board of Trustees Gerard C. Wertkin, Director
        CULLMAN--Joseph. World Wildlife Fund mourns the loss of our longtime board member, first honorary director and very dear friend, Joseph F. Cullman 3rd. In a life filled with interests and commitments, Joe never missed a chance to say or to prove that saving our living planet was his ''number one priority.'' And he delivered. Joe took up the case of nature conservation with the distinctive gusto and determination he brought to everything in life. Elephants and salmon, forests and coral reefs have a brighter future because of Joe. All of us at WWF mourn the loss of an inimitable leader and friend. His life and legacy will long shine bright in our hearts and minds. William K. Reilly, Chairman Russell E. Train Chairman Emeritus Kathryn S. Fuller President and CEO World Wildlife Fund
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. III. The Board of Trustees of the Silver Shield Foundation express our deepest sympathy to his family so soon after the loss of their beloved Joan. We mourn the passing of our treasured and esteemed Trustee. He was a pillar of strength in his advice, counsel, and generosity to the mission of our foundation. Although his attitude towards life was reflected in the title of his book ''I am a Lucky Guy'', it should be noted that those who were fortunate to be his friends, golf or tennis partners will always cherish his memory and admire his spirit, and, in fact, are the truly ''lucky guys.'' James E. Fuchs President Kevin M. McGovern Co-Chairman William G. Walters Co-Chairman Edward T. Broderick Secretary/Treasurer
        CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Joseph F. Cullman 3rd, an outstanding business executive, sportsman, conservationist and philanthropist. His personal commitment, and the commitment of the Cullman family to patient care at Mount Sinai have been extraordinary. Most recently, Joseph and his two brothers, Edgar, a Mount Sinai trustee, and Lewis, created the Joseph F. Cullman Jr. Institute for Patient Care in memory of their father who was also a distinguished member of our board. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Cullman family whose unwavering support for Mount Sinai is a source of inspiration to all of us. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, MD President and CEO
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened at the death of beloved Joe, bereft and dispirited by the painful loss of Joan just six weeks ago. Joe avidly seconded Joan's devoted commitment to Lincoln Center Theater and was wonderfully supportive and enthusiastic about the plays. Joe's autobiography, aptly titled ''I'm a Lucky Guy'', sums up Joe's sense of how his life turned out. Those who knew him well and enjoyed his friendship and generous spirit were also ''lucky guys''. We send condolences to Joe's family and colleagues. John B. Beinecke Chairman John Chalsty President Andre Bishop Artistic Director Bernard Gersten Executive Producer
        CULLMAN--Joseph. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of Thirteen/WNET, we note with deep sorrow the passing of Joseph Cullman. A founding member of the station's Board of Trustees (1961-68), he played an instrumental role in creating a strong public television presence in the New York tri-state area. Together with his late wife, Joan Strauss Cullman, Joe was a generous supporter of arts, culture and the environment. We extend our condolences to his family and join them in mourning the passing of a great New Yorker. Steven Rattner, Chairman William F. Baker, President
        CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd, The Board of Directors and Staff of the International Tennis Hall of Fame mourn the loss of our friend, former President and Chairman Emeritus. During his leadership in the 1980s, he saw the Newport Casino, home to the Hall of Fame, restored to its original grandeur and named a National Historic Landmark. A warm, generous and committed supporter for more than 30 years, he was greatly honored to be inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1990, as a contributor to the sport. Joe Cullman was truly special and will be deeply missed by all who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family.
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3rd. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of our most esteemed congregant, co-chair of our Board of Honorary Trustees and benevolent philanthropist, Joseph F. Cullman 3rd. Our congregation and community will acknowledge his spirit forever and cherish his memory. We extend our deepest condolences to his entire family. May his memory be for a blessing always. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. III. The Sabin family mourns the loss of their dear friend Joseph F. Cullman III. His devotion and generosity to environmental causes will be remembered forever. His dedication and selfless committment to everything he was involved with will also be remembered forever. We extend our most sincere condolences to the Cullman family. Andrew Sabin
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3rd. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of Joseph Cullman, member, past member of the Board of Governors, fellow golfer and friend. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to Joe's family and children. Joe, we'll miss you. Robert E. Morrow, President Harvey L. Radler, Secretary
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3rd. We have lost a friend who will live forever in our memories: his kindness; sense of humor; contributions to enterprise and humanity; the strength of his handshake; and his ''famous navy song.'' Our heartfelt sympathies to the Cullman and Straus families. Sherry and Gene Zuriff
        CULLMAN--Joseph. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our neighbor and dear friend, Joe Cullman. An esteemed and active member of our cooperative, we will miss him and extend our deepest condolences to the Cullman family. The 19 East 72nd St Corp Cary A. Koplin, President
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3rd. Friends at Guild Hall of East Hampton note with sadness the passing of Joe Cullman, a lover of the arts and honoree of the Academy of the Arts in 1999 who will be greatly missed. Melville Straus, Chair Ruth Appelhof, Exec. Dir.
        CULLMAN -- Joseph. We mourn the loss of a great friend, a man of vision, passion, integrity and wit. Joe embraced life to the fullest and his death, along with the untimely passing of Joan, leaves their many friends bereft. Frieda and Roy Furman
        CULLMAN -- Joseph. His friends and admirers at HEAF-The Harlem Educational Activities Fund note with sadness the passing of Joe Cullman, a fine human being who will be greatly missed. Daniel Rose, Chairman
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. III. We mourn the loss of our esteemed tennis partner and extend our sincere regrets to his brother Lewis. Sam Apter Don Wilde Jim Wilson
      