
        EVERETT--Henry. The staff and board of Teach For America mourn the loss of Henry and celebrate his many contributions to our organization. Along with his dear wife Edith, Henry was so interested in the young people who serve through Teach For America, so full of genuine concern for us as people, and so personally committed to our vision. We love him and have treasured his involvement in our community, his warmth, his sense of purpose, his integrity. We will continue to feel his presence as we work toward a better world. Wendy Kopp, Sue Lehmann and the entire Teach For America community
        EVERETT -- Henry. The American Jewish Historical Society mourns the loss of its esteemed Trustee, Henry Everett. Henry and his beloved wife Edith supported the society as part of their commitment to shape the conscience and consciousness of the American Jewish community. Henry sincerely believed that education can advance the human condition and that service to others ennobles the individual. His faith in the future were shaped by his respect for the past. We will miss his wise counsel. Sidney Lapidus, President Kenneth J. Bialkin, Chairman Michael Feldberg, Ph.D Executive Director
        EVERETT -- Henry. The Board, the staff and the global partners of American Jewish World Service mourn the passing of one of our founding Board members. Henry brought broad vision and intense commitment to his Judaism and his philanthropy. We honor him for his passionate beliefs in tikkun olam and extend our deepest sympathies to his life partner Edith, to his daughter Carolyn, our current Board member and to his son David. Marty Friedman, Chair Ruth Messinger, Exec. Dir. American Jewish World Service
        EVERETT--Henry. The Tobacco Control Resource Center mourns the passing of its friend, advisor, and benefactor, Henry Everett. When no one was funding tobacco control, Henry and Edith were generous and enthusiastic in their support. The legacy of that support lives on across this nation in lives saved and futures realized. TCRC extends our heartfelt condolences to Edith and the entire Everett family. Richard A. Daynard, Pres. Kevin Kroner, Exec. Dir. Blake Cady, Board Chairman
        EVERETT--Henry. Brooklyn Children's Museum mourns Henry Everett. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Edith and their entire family. Henry's compassion and devotion to public service have inspired us and the thousands of young men and women who were privileged to be Everett Public Service Interns to become active in creating communities that serve, educate, and especially that support our children and families. Carol Enseki, President Paul Gangsei, Chairman
        EVERETT--Henry. The Jewish Community Centers Association of North America mourns the loss of Henry Everett, esteemed member of the Board of Directors and long-time supporter. The Everetts' vision and commitment enriched the Jewish people, and strengthened communities in New York, America, and all over the world. We extend our deepest condolences to Edith and the entire Everett family. Edward H. Kaplan, Chair Allan Finkelstein, President
        EVERETT -- Henry. The Board and staff of Legal Momentum are deeply saddened by the passing of our longtime dear friend, Henry Everett. Henry, along with his wife Edith, have been steadfast in their support to advance the rights of women and girls. We will miss his kindness, integrity and generosity of spirit. Our thoughts are with Edith and her family. Michele Mayes, Chair Kathy Rodgers, President Susan Karp, Vice President
        EVERETT--Henry. His passion for New York City and dedication to the enlightenment of young men and women -- manifested through the Everett Intern Program-contributed immeasurably to our work and that of other civic organizations. Our deepest condolences go to Edith and the entire Everett family. Municipal Art Society of NY
        EVERETT--Henry. Brooklyn College mourns the passing of Henry Everett, beloved husband of alumna Edith, nee Brenner, '49, and generous supporter of Brooklyn College. We extend our deepest condolence to his family. Christoph M. Kimmich President Brooklyn College
        EVERETT -- Henry. Henry Everett was among the first to share our vision. The entire Summer Camp community sends its condolences to Edith and the Everett family. Peggy E. Tanner, President Nancy Maier, Founder
      