
        HERTZBERG -- Lilian. May 26, 2004. Dr. Diane E. Meier, Director of the Lilian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute, Dr. Albert L. Siu, Ellen and Howard C. Katz Chairman's Chair of Brookdale Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development Mount Sinai School of Medicine, members of the Advisory Board of the Hertzberg Institute, and the entire faculty and staff of the Institute who knew and admired her, mourn the loss of our friend, Lilian Hertzberg. A woman of extraordinary intelligence, culture, wide ranging interests and detemination, Lilian Hertzberg was a visionary benefactor who recognized the need for medical care focused on relief of suffering and support for best quality of life for patients with serious illness and their families. She generously named and endowed, with her late husband, Benjamin Hertzberg, the Lilian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute. We will miss her. Funeral arrangements private. Donations in her memory may be made to Lilian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute, Mount Sinai Medical Center, Box 1070, 1 Gustave L. Levy Place, NY, NY 10029.
        HERTZBERG -- Lilian. The Weizmann Institue of Science and the American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourn the passing of our dear friend, Lilian Hertzberg. A generous supporter of the Weizmann Institute's work, Lilian served on the Institute's Board of Governors and was genuinely devoted to its mission of Science for the Benefit of Humanity. We will miss her, and send our deepest heartfelt condolences to her family. Robert B. Machinist Chairman American Committee Albert Willner, M.D. President Martin S. Kraar Executive Vice President Stuart Eizenstat, Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Prof. Ilan Chet, President Weizmann Institute of Science
        HERTZBERG -- Lilian. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of Lilian Hertzberg, an outstanding philanthropist. For many years, Lilian, and her late husband, Benjamin, shared our special commitment to providing compassionate health care. Together, they generously created The Lilian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute at Mount Sinai, an internationally recognized program providing physical and emotional support to seriously ill patients and their families. They also generously supported our cardiology program. We extend our sincere condolences to Lilian's family and friends. Peter W. May, Chairman, Mount Sinai Medical Center Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., President & CEO, Mount Sinai Medical Center
      