
        KING--Alan. The Officers, Governors and members of the Friars Club are deeply saddened by the passing of their esteemed Abbot and dear friend Alan King. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Actor, comedian, raconteur--Alan was the epitome of show biz. A Friar for more than half a century, he was a loyal and dedicated member long before he was offered the Club's highest position, that of Abbot. Alan succeeded Frank Sinatra in 1997 and his leadership greatly influenced the direction of the Friars Club into the new millennium. Alan's support and participation at our Roasts and Testimoial Dinners is legendary. He was an extraordinary talent who brought laughter to millions. He helped to preserve the rich theatrical roots of the Friars Club and his name joins the legendary and immortal Friars like Jack Benny, Milton Berle, George Burns, George M. Cohan, Cary Grant, George Jessel, Dean Martin and Frank Sinatra. Along with these giants in entertainment he shared a legacy of commitment to the very best. All the Friars tip their hats skyward to salute the man who made their days a little brighter and their hearts a little fuller. There may be an empty bar stool at the corner of the Friars Club bar, but the rich legacy of wonderful stories and jokes that Alan left behind for us will be heard and laughed about till the end of time. For Friars there is no greater gift than that. Services will be held on May 11, at 11:45 am, at Riverside Memorial Chapel on 76h Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Freddie Roman, Dean Sally Jessy Raphael, Prior Fred C. Klein, Treasurer Stu Cantor, Scribe Jean-Pierre Trebot Executive Director
        KING--Alan. We mourn the passing of our brother-in-law and uncle, and extend our sympathy and love to Jeanette and family. We applaud his life, talent and commitment to all causes. Hy and Pearl Sprung Gary, Steven, Adam Sprung Lisa and James Cohen
        KING--Alan. We mourn the passing of our good friend Alan King. We will always cherish the memories of our wonderful times together. Our sincere condolences to Jeanette and the entire King family. Patti and Bob Mosberg
        KING--Alan. We mourn our dear friend Alan, and extend our deepest sympathy to his loving wife Jeanette, his children and beautiful grandchildren. Sue and Herman
      