
        EVERETT--Henry. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) are deeply sorrowed by the passing of our esteemed Board member. Henry Everett's lifelong commitment to social justice and his desire to reach out and help those whose needs are often overlooked is shared with equal determination by his precious life-partner, Edith. Together they participated in the rescue of Ethiopian Jewry, serving as pioneering advocates on the community's behalf. They envisioned, founded and supported major educational initiatives that have benefited tens of thousands of Ethiopian-Israeli parents and children. And their firm commitment to helping Israel better the lives of all of its citizens led them to establish a pioneering effort on behalf of Israeli Druze. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Edith, David, Carolyn and the entire Everett family. Henry's life of righteous deeds is our challenge and inspiration. May his memory be for a blessing. Eugene J. Ribakoff President Jonathan W. Kolker Chairman of the Board Steven Schwager, Exec. Vice-President
        EVERETT -- Henry. The Teachers College, Columbia University community is deeply saddened by the passing of Henry Everett, who was a friend of the College. Mr. Everett and his wife, Edith, an alumna of Teachers College, passionately and tenaciously worked to fix a broken world. There are people throughout New York, around the country and across the world whose lives are better because of the Everetts' philanthropy and activism, even though they never met Henry. Many will never know his name. In the Jewish religion, we believe that to save one life is to save the world. By those standards, Henry Everett saved the world literally millions of times. We can't imagine a world bereft of Henry's warmth, vision, passion and integrity. The TC community offers its sincere condolences to his wife, Edith, his children Carolyn and David and grandchildren. With a big hug, Arthur Levine, President Teachers College, Columbia University
        EVERETT--Henry. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of American ORT are saddened by the passing of a longtime member of the ORT family, Henry Everett, who, together with his wife, Edith, were living examples of philanthropy as it should be practiced. Convinced that education trains youngsters towards an independent life, the Everetts were the founding members of ORT Braude in Karmiel, Israel, and the founders and supporters of two ORT schools in Hatzor, Israel, which bear their names. They regularly visited these two ORT schools many times to meet with their students and faculty. His dedication to the Jewish people, children and education is his legacy to ORT students worldwide. We are grateful for his caring and generosity. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Edith, their children, Carolyn and David, and grandchildren. Joe Cohen, National Pres. Robert L. Sill, Ch. of the Bd. Paul B. Firstenberg, Exec Dir.
        EVERETT -- Henry. We mourn the passing of Henry Everett, a thoughtful and generous soul whose committment to Tikkun Olam was extraordinary. Henry's personal support for and involvement in the educational programs of the Center for Humansistic Education at the Ghetto Fighter's Museum in Israel was instrumental in the development and success of the Center's program. His sincere belief in the need for education and dialogue between young Jews and Arabs as a key to future peace was unshakeable, and his strength of purpose together with his wife, Edith, was a cornerstone of the Center's foundation. He will be sorely missed by the Center's staff and students. Raya Kalisman, Director, Center for Humanistic Ed. Simcha Stein, Director, The Ghetto Fighters Museum Les Stern, Chairman Amy Miller, President Debbie Nahshon, Exec Dir American Friends of The Ghetto Fighters Museum
        EVERETT--Henry J. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of Henry Everett, a member of our Board of Governors, a devoted philanthropist and humanitarian, and a man of incomparable integrity, principle and passion. Henry lent his considerable talents, time and resources to a host of causes and organizations that sought to improve the human conditionphysically, socially and culturally. A generous supporter of AJC for many years along with his beloved wife Edith, he was a dear friend to the Jewish people. Henry touched many lives in countless ways and his legacy of goodness and human kindness will long be remembered. We send our heartfelt condolences to Edith, his children Carolyn and David, his grandchildren and the rest of the grieving family. E. Robert Goodkind, Pres. David A. Harris, Exec. Dir.
        EVERETT--Henry. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of Henry Everett. A devoted patron and longtime supporter of the 92nd Street Y and other Jewish and civic causes, Henry and his wife Edith founded and sustained the Everett Institutes now in their 19th season. At these prestigious seminars, the world's finest scholars explore Jewish thought, philosophy, history and their meaning for today's world. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Edith, their children, David and Carolyn, grandchildren, and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Michael Goldstein, President Matthew Bronfman, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director Helaine Geismar Katz, Associate Executive Director
        EVERETT--Henry. The Israel Education Fund of the United Jewish Communities mourns the passing of Henry Everett. Henry's leadership and fierce dedication to the Jewish community, Israel, education and the underprivileged, touched and inspired all those who knew him. Henry's commitment to enhancing the lives of those in Northern Israel, leaves a lasting impact on both the Jewish and Druze communities. To his beloved wife Edith, their children and grandchildren, we extend our heartfelt condolences. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Terry M. Rubenstein, Pres. Yitzchak Shavit, Vice-Pres. Israel Education Fund
        EVERETT -- Henry. With hearts filled with grief and pain the Jewish Book Council mourns the passing of its Honorary Chairman of the Board, Henry Everett. His love of Jewish learning brought him to champion the work of the Jewish Book Council at a time when his effort was crucial to its survival. We send our loving condolences to his beloved wife, Edith, his committed partner in all his communal work and undertakings, and to their beloved children and grandchildren. May his memory be for a blessing and for inspiration. Maurice S. Corson, President Carolyn Starman Hessel, Dir.
        EVERETT--Henry. The Officers, Board, staff and students of Columbia/Barnard Hillel mourn the passing of our devoted Board member and good friend, Henry Everett. Our heartfelt condolences to Edith and the entire family. A great humanitarian, Henry cared deeply for the Jewish community, education, Israel and Hillel. He and Edith generously supported our Alternative Spring Break in Honduras. Henry will be greatly missed. Ruth E. Horowitz Richard E. Kobrin Earl W. Kazin Arthur O. Sulzberger Charles H. Sheer Joanne Ben-Avi
        EVERETT -- Henry. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a cherished member of its extended family. Henry, together with Edith, his partner in life, and tzedakah, provided generous scholarship assistance over the years enabling disadvantaged Israeli youth to receive a quality education at Boys Town. We extend heartfelt condolences to Edith and the entire family. Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Josh S. Weston, Honorary Chairman Raphael Benaroya, Chairman Michael J. Scharf, President Rabbi Ronald Gray, Exec. VP
        EVERETT--Henry. The New Israel Fund mourns the passing of Henry Everett (z''l), philanthropist, community leader and friend. In memory, as in life, he will inspire us to the values he held most dear: social justice, public service, translating idealism into action and tikkun olam--healing the world. Our hearts go out to Edith and the entire Everett family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. The New Israel Fund Peter Edelman, President Phyllis Teicher Goldman, Director, Israel Ventures Shatil Rachel Liel, Director
        EVERETT--Henry. JESNA, The Jewish Education Service of North America, mourns the passing of our esteemed Board Member, Henry Everett. Henry's vision, values, and remarkable activism in the service of the Jewish people, Jewish future, will always be remembered. We extend heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife and partner, Edith, and to their entire family. Helene Berger, Chair Diane Troderman, First Vice Chair Jonathan Woocher, President
        EVERETT--Henry. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Henry Everett, beloved husband of Edith Everett; and father of Carolyn and David Everett; long-time supporters of UJA-Federation, our network of agencies, and Jewish life throughout the world. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Everett family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        EVERETT--Henry. Women's American ORT mourns the loss of Henry Everett, philanthropist and champion of Jewish and educational causes. Henry and his wife, Edith, have been longtime supporters of the ORT's Edith and Henry Everett Elementary and Comprehensive High School in Hatzor, Israel. We extend our deepest condolences to Edith and their children. Judy Menikoff National President Ina Green National Executive Director Women's American ORT
        EVERETT--Henry. The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester notes with sorrow the death of Henry Everett, father of Schechter parent David Everett, fatherin-law of our esteemed trustee Karen Everett. We extend our condolences to David, Karen, and their children, Elias, Ethan and Hannie. May the memory of Henry Everett be a blessing. M. Mac Schwebel, Chairman, Board of Trustees; James M. Dubin, Vice Chairman; Dr. Elliot Spiegel, Headmaster
        EVERETT -- Henry. The Aleph Society mourns the passing of Henry Everett. Together with his wife and lifelong partner, Edith, he was a warm friend and a passionate and compassionate advocate for the Jewish people. His standards of integrity and clarity leave us with a vital legacy. May Edith and the Everett family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz Jack Nash, Chairman Ludwig Bravmann, President
        EVERETT -- Henry. Yemin Orde Wingate Youth Village in Israel and Friends of Yemin Orde deeply mourn the passing of our beloved friend, Henry Everett. The children, staff and Board of Directors send their heartfelt condolences to Edith, Carolyn, David and their families. Henry was a true partner in spirit and deed. Chaim Peri, Director Yemin Orde Mark Solomon, FYO Chair Susan Pollack, FYO Director
        EVERETT--Henry. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of philanthropist Henry Everett. Along with his partner in life, Edith, Henry was an advocate and activist for the Jewish people, the State of Israel and for a better life for all. We extend our condolences to Edith, his children, David and Carolyn, and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        EVERETT--Henry. The Jewish Publication Society extends condolences to the family of Henry Everett, beloved Trustee, benefactor, and champion. Through his generosity of heart, spirit, and tzedakah, he strengthened Jewish literacy and identity for this and future generations. May his memory be for a blessing. Allan R. Frank, President Dr. Ellen Frankel CEO and Editor-in-Chief
        EVERETT -- Henry. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn the passing of Henry Everett. Henry was a quiet giant who spoke eloquently with his deeds. We will miss this great man and extend our deep condolences to his beloved wife Edith and the entire Everett family. Milton A. Gilbert, President Daniel Reingold, Exec. VP
        EVERETT -- Henry. The Board and staff of The National Center for Jewish Film is deeply saddened by the loss of our longtime friend, Henry Everett. He and Edith with commitment and devotion contributed to the salvaging and restoring of Yiddish film--a legacy that will continue throughout the generations. Our deepest sympathies to Edith, Carolyn, David and his family.
        EVERETT -- Henry. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and the Tel Aviv Museum are deeply saddened by the loss of our generous and loyal Board member, Henry Everett. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Edith and to the entire Everett family. He will be sorely missed.
        EVERETT -- Henry. Meretz USA mourns a wondrous man whose passion for the well being of humankind included a lifelong devotion to a just peace between Israelis and Palestinians. Heartfelt condolences to his partner in countless good deeds, Edith, and family. Harold M. Shapiro, Chair Charney V. Bromberg, Dir.
        EVERETT -- Henry. The Shtetl Foundation and its President and Founder, Dr Yaffa Eliach mourn the passing of Henry Everett, a great visionary and philanthropist. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his wonderful wife Edith and the entire Everett family.
        EVERETT--Henry. We admired him, we loved him, and we will miss him terribly. Francine and Sam Klagsbrun
      