
        LARKIN--Frank Yoakum. Of Greenwich, CT & New York City. Beloved husband of June Noble Larkin, died on Sunday, May 16, 2004, in Greenwich, CT, of heart failure. He was a former Executive Vice President of The Putnam Trust Company of Greenwich, and was a graduate of Princeton University, Fordham University School of Law, and served as a Captain in The U.S. Army during World War II. He was a former Chairman of the Board of Greenwich Academy and former President of the Board of Greenwich Hospital. An ardent naturalist and ornithologist since childhood, he served as a Trustee of the Wildlife Conservation Society since 1973, and became a Life Trustee in 2000. In recognition of his life-long commitment to conservation he was awarded the Society's highest honor, its Gold Medal, which was inscribed ''Frank Y. Larkin-1998-His unique Understanding and Far-ranging Knowledge of Wild Creatures Provides a Special Leadership for us All.'' He also served as a Trustee of the American Museum of Natural History from 1974 to 2001, and became an Honorary Trustee in 2001. In addition, the Museum's education center, the Discovery Room, is named in his honor. As Vice Chairman of the Edward John Noble Foundation, and as President of the St. Catherine's Island Foundation, he stewarded the Foundation's environmental funding programs, focussing efforts on scientific research, education, and the preservation of endangered species. Brother of Mrs. Robert C. Wilson, New York City, father of Barbara Franklin, Washington D.C., Frank Larkin, Wooster, Ohio, Patricia Larkin, Washington D.C., and Edith Hubbell, Norwich, VT. Stepfather of Noble Smith, David Smith, Jeremy Smith, Bradford Smith. Grandfather of Jennifer Del Guercio, Lisa Topchik, John F. Franklin III, Sarah, Jay, and Andrew Hubbell. Great grandfather of Sara Topchik. A Memorial Service will be held on Thursday June 3, 2004, at 6 P.M. at the American Museum of Natural History. Contributions may be sent to the American Museum of Natural History, or the Wildlife Conservation Society in New York.
        LARKIN--Frank Y. The entire Juilliard community mourns the loss of Frank Larkin, husband of our esteemed Chairman Emeritus and Trustee, June Noble Larkin. His vigorous support of The Juilliard School through the Edward John Noble Foundation benefits generations of young actors, dancers and musicians. A thoughtful and caring individual of extraordinary wit, Yoke Larkin was a committed and effective conservationist whose work has saved many endangered species. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Bruce Kovner, Chairman Joseph W. Polisi, President
        LARKIN--Frank. The Board of Directors, Artists and Staff of Jazz At Lincoln Center extend deepest sympathies to our beloved Board Member, June Larkin, on the loss of her husband, Frank. We will miss his participation in so many of JALC's activities, and his gentleness, intelligence, and wonderfully dry wit will live on in our fondest memories. Our thoughts are with June and her family. Lisa Schiff, Chairman Wynton Marsalis, Artistic Director Hughlyn Fierce, President and CEO
        LARKIN--Frank Y. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourns the passing of Frank Y. Larkin, beloved husband of June Noble Larkin, a longtime Board Member and the esteemed Co-chair of our Directors Emeriti Council. A dedicated friend of Lincoln Center, Frank was a generous supporter of its programs and his spirit will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Bruce Crawford, Chairman Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        LARKIN--Frank. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Guild Hall of East Hampton extend deepest sympathies and prayers to our beloved trustee, June Noble Larkin, on the passing of her husband, Frank. Melville Straus, Chair Ruth Appelhof, Exec. Dir.
      