
        LARKIN--Frank Yoakum. Of Greenwich, CT & New York City. Beloved husband of June Noble Larkin, died on Sunday, May 16, 2004, in Greenwich, CT, of heart failure. He was a former Executive Vice President of The Putnam Trust Company of Greenwich, and was a graduate of Princeton University, Fordham University School of Law, and served as a Captain in The U.S. Army during World War II. He was a former Chairman of the Board of Greenwich Academy and former President of the Board of Greenwich Hospital. An ardent naturalist and ornithologist since childhood, he served as a Trustee of the Wildlife Conservation Society since 1973, and became a Life Trustee in 2000. In recognition of his life-long commitment to conservation he was awarded the Society's highest honor, its Gold Medal, which was inscribed ''Frank Y. Larkin-1998-His unique Understanding and Far-ranging Knowledge of Wild Creatures Provides a Special Leadership for us All.'' He also served as a Trustee of the American Museum of Natural History from 1974 to 2001, and became an Honorary Trustee in 2001. In addition, the Museum's education center, the Discovery Room, is named in his honor. As Vice Chairman of the Edward John Noble Foundation, and as President of the St. Catherine's Island Foundation, he stewarded the Foundation's environmental funding programs, focussing efforts on scientific research, education, and the preservation of endangered species. Brother of Mrs. Robert C. Wilson, New York City, father of Barbara Franklin, Washington D.C., Frank Larkin, Wooster, Ohio, Patricia Larkin, Washington D.C., and Edith Hubbell, Norwich, VT. Stepfather of Noble Smith, David Smith, Jeremy Smith, Bradford Smith. Grandfather of Jennifer Del Guercio, Lisa Topchik, John F. Franklin III, Sarah, Jay, and Andrew Hubbell. Great grandfather of Sara Topchik. A Memorial Service will be held on Thursday June 3, 2004, at 6 P.M. at the American Museum of Natural History. Contributions may be sent to the American Museum of Natural History, or the Wildlife Conservation Society in New York.
        LARKIN--Frank Y. The Wildlife Conservation Society mourns the death of Yoke Larkin, a dear and highly esteemed, longtime member of the WCS family whose dedication, acumen and lifelong love of wildlife helped shape the organization for more than three decades. A Trustee of WCS since 1973 and a Life Trustee since 2000, Yoke was an active and vital member of numerous committees, and served as Chairman of the Executive Committee and Vice Chairman of the Conservation Committee. As Vice Chairman and a Director of the Edward John Noble Foundation, Yoke and his wife, June Noble Larkin, brought a unique gift to the cause of wildlife conservation through their generous support of WCS's St. Catherines Island Wildlife Survival Center off the coast of Georgia. Yoke took a personal commitment to wildlife and transformed it into action that made a difference in the protection of endangered species and wild habitats. In 1998, he was awarded the infrequently conferred WCS Gold Medal, joining past recipients including Rachel Carson, Jacques Cousteau, and Roger Tory Peterson. His Gold Medal is inscribed with words that are equally fitting today as we remember him: ''His unique understanding and far-ranging knowledge of wild creatures provides special inspiration for us all.'' David T. Schiff Chairman WCS Board of Trustees Howard Phipps, Jr. Chairman Emeritus WCS Board of Trustees Dr. Steven E. Sanderson WCS President and CEO
        LARKIN -- Frank Y. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council note with sorrow the passing of Yoke Larkin, beloved husband of June Noble Larkin. Yoke's gentle manner, wry humor, and quiet insights into all aspects of life and nature were a welcome addition to any gathering. His deep love for and vast knowledge of St. Catherine's Island was inspirational, and his generosity of spirit was boundless. We extend our sympathies to June and all of their family members. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY Sir Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        LARKIN -- Frank Y. The Trustees and staff of the American Museum of Natural History mourn the loss of longtime Trustee, Yoke Larkin. Serving this institution for over 35 years, he involved himself in every aspect of the Museum's activities and we will sorely miss his wise counsel. The families of New York will especially remember him for the imaginative gift of the Discovery Room, affectionately known as ''Yoke's Room,'' a hands-on educational space visited repeatedly by children, parents, and educators. One of the city's beloved citizens, Yoke always had a twinkle in his eye and we will fondly remember him that way. Lewis W. Bernard, Chairman Ellen V. Futter, President
        LARKIN--Frank Y. The entire Juilliard community mourns the loss of Frank Larkin, husband of our esteemed Chairman Emeritus and Trustee, June Noble Larkin. His vigorous support of The Juilliard School through the Edward John Noble Foundation benefits generations of young actors, dancers and musicians. A thoughtful and caring individual of extraordinary wit, Yoke Larkin was a committed and effective conservationist whose work has saved many endangered species. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Bruce Kovner, Chairman Joseph W. Polisi, President
        LARKIN--Frank. The Board of Directors, Artists and Staff of Jazz At Lincoln Center extend deepest sympathies to our beloved Board Member, June Larkin, on the loss of her husband, Frank. We will miss his participation in so many of JALC's activities, and his gentleness, intelligence, and wonderfully dry wit will live on in our fondest memories. Our thoughts are with June and her family. Lisa Schiff, Chairman Wynton Marsalis, Artistic Director Hughlyn Fierce, President and CEO
      