
        ZARO--Philip. The Yeshiva University family deeply mourns the passing of one of our community's most dedicated and generous supporters, who championed higher education as a respected board member of YU's Wurzweiler School of Social Work. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Dorothy, with whom he endowed a scholarship for Wurzweiler; his brother and sister, Sam and Claire; sons, Stuart and wife, Keri, Joseph and wife, Nancy, Andrew and wife Lois; and his 11 grandchildren. As fellows of WSSW and our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, Philip and Dorothy embodied the highest ideals of Jewish learning. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Wurzweiler School of Social Work Robert Schwalbe, Chair Board of Governors Sheldon R. Gelman Dorothy and David I. Schachne Dean
        ZARO--Philip. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Shield Institute note with great sorrow the death of our esteemed former Chairman, Chairman Emeritus and colleague. Phil was deeply involved in the activities of The Shield for over three decades and was honored at the Plaza Hotel, in 1988, at the Annual Fellowship Awards Dinner Dance as ''Man of the Year.'' His dedication to individuals with developmental disabilities was exemplary. He was instrumental in bringing about the affiliation of The Shield Institute and the Jewish Board of Family & Children's Services which proved to be of great benefit to both agencies. His warmth and humor will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathies go to his beloved wife Dorothy, his children Stuart and Keri Zaro, Andrew and Lois Zaro and Joey and Nancy Zaro & his beloved grandchildren. David J. Sweet, President Dr. Susan Provenzano, Executive Director
        ZARO--Philip. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with sadness the death of Philip Zaro, former JBFCS trustee and, more recently, honorary trustee. Phil was a long-standing Chairman of the Board and generous supporter of the Shield Institute and a key advocate for its affiliation with JBFCS. He was a man of considerable intellect, drive and commitment and we will miss him. Our condolences to his wife, Dorothy, and his children, Stuart and Keri, Andrew and Lois, Joseph and Nancy, and his grandchildren. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive VP and CEO
        ZARO--Philip. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Philip Zaro, beloved father of Andrew Zaro, a cherished supporter of the New York Jewish community. We extend our deepest sympathies to Andrew; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      