
        EVERETT--Henry J. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of former Board member Henry Everett. A supporter of the Weizmann Institute's work, together with his wife Edith, he established the Everett Technology Workshop of the Clore Garden of Science at the Weizmann Institute of Science. He will be remembered for his caring by all children who visit the Garden. We extend our deepest heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Robert B. Machinist Chairman American Committee Albert Willner, M.D. President Martin S. Kraar Executive Vice President Stuart Eizenstat Chairman Weizmann Institute of Science Prof. Ilan Chet, President Weizmann Institute of Science Dr. Moshe Rishpon Creator and Director Clore Garden of Science
        EVERETT -- Henry. The Board and staff of National Public Radio and the trustees of the NPR Foundation mourn the passing of Henry Everett. In partnership with his wife Edith, Henry shared the family's good fortune with countless worthwhile organizations for close to fifty years. We at NPR are privileged to have counted Henry as a thoroughly engaged friend and advocate for public radio, and as a donor and member of NPR's President's Council. We extend our deepest condolences to all of his family, especially his wife, Edith, his daughter, Carolyn and son, David. We wish them comfort in the knowledge of the great good works Henry accomplished during his time with us. Kevin Klose, President and CEO NPR John A. Herrmann, Jr. Chair, NPR Foundation
        EVERETT--Henry J. Reconstructionist Rabbinical College mourns the passing of Henry J. Everett, philanthropist devoted to tikkun olam and klal Yisrael. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Edith, and his family. May his memory be for a blessing. Aaron Ziegelman, General Chairman Donald L. Shapiro, Chair of the Board of Governors Rabbi Dan Ehrenkrantz, President
        EVERETT--Henry. The Medicare Rights Center mourns the loss of its board member and dear friend. We share in the sadness of the Everett family. Henry was a trumpeter for justice--from his work building the coalition for the homeless in the 1980's to his strong support of decent healthcare for all. His flame burned bright, and it will not be extinguished. Robert M. Hayes, President, Medicare Rights Center
        EVERETT--Henry. Brooklyn College Foundation mourns the passing of Henry Everett, beloved husband of alumna Edith, (nee Brenner), '49, and generous supporter of the efforts of the College and the Foundation. Our deepest condolences to his family. Roy Furman Chairman of the Board of Trustees Brooklyn College Foundation
        EVERETT -- Henry. DOC (Doctors Ought to Care) and The University of Alabama Center for the Study of Tobacco and Society mourn the loss of this great public health activist and spiritually guided benefactor. Alan Blum, M.D., Tuscaloosa, Alabama Eric Solberg, M.A., Houston, Texas
        EVERETT--Henry. The National Havurah Committee mourns the passing of a courageous leader and visionary philanthropist.
      