
        GORE--Selma. On Friday, April 30. She was my mother's dear niece and my first cousin, although I always called her my aunt. I thank her from the bottom of my heart for visiting my mother frequently these past few years and they loved each other so. Selma's family was part of what shaped my history growing up in Woodmere, Long Island. I send my love, my condolences, and am particularly grateful for my fond memories of the time spent with her children Billy, Bengy, Tracy and David. You all played such a huge part in my life, living so close to my own family and I appreciate every minute of it. The Sunday BBQ's, hysterical jokes, ballgames and just time spent together made up so much fun in my young life. I will never forget those moments and will treasure them always. Love, Susie
        GORE--Selma. Of Woodmere and NYC. On April 30, 2004. Noted publicist. Unique mother of Billy (Adele), Tracy, Benjy and David (Mara). Wonderful grandmother to Kelly. Sister to Arnold. Member of NY Press Club, the Metropolitan Opera, Silurians, Cartoonist's Society and NYU Alumni. All her friends and relatives will miss her wit and warmth. Memorial Wednesday, 11:45, at The Riverside, 76th and Amsterdam, NYC. Graveside service Mt. Hebron Cemetery following.
        GORE--Selma. We mourn with great sadness the passing of our dear Sel, cherished cousin, dearest niece. You were a loving, kind, wonderful woman. Family was very important to you, you were an angel to all of us, you will surely be one in heaven. You had many friends and were a good friend. You lived life with enthusiasm and a sense of humor. You had a creative mind, a sharp wit, a passion for cooking, and loved being an extra in the opera at Lincoln Center. You were unique. Selma, we love you, and we'll miss you. You will live in our hearts forever. Your loving cousins, The Gelles, Silver, and Mahler Families
        GORE--Selma. Selma, we will never forget your spirit for life, your love of humanity and the kindness you showed to everyone you knew. Kelly will always know how progressive, courageous and dynamic your spirit is, and your love and dreams for her will remain in all of our hearts forever. Your passion for enriching the lives of so many will never be forgotten. We will love and miss you forever. Sincerely, Mara, Paul, June, Teri and Kelly
      