
        RANDALL--Tony, 84, on May 17, 2004. Beloved husband of Heather. Loving father to Julia and Jefferson. Services will be private. A public memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the National Actors Theatre, One Pace Plaza, New York, New York, 10038.
        RANDALL--Tony. The Board of Trustees, staff and consumers of the YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities Network mourn the passing of Tony Randall, longtime friend and Honorary Sponsor of our organization. As a frequent spokesperson for YAI/NIPD, Mr Randall played a pivotal role in promoting the rights and needs of people with developmental disabilities. He graced many of our events with his distinguished presence. The YAI/NIPD Network is greatly sorrowed by the loss of this extraordinary man. He will be missed by all of us. We extend our deepest condolences to the Randall family. Marcella Fava, Chair Paul H. Levitz, Ph.D., Vice Chair Joel M. Levy, D.S.W. Chief Executive Officer Philip H. Levy, Ph.D., President & C.O.O. YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities
        RANDALL--Tony. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our dear friend, Tony Randall, a member of The Metropolitan Opera Association since 1972. His enthusiastic devotion to opera made him a frequent and welcome presence in this house. A witty and popular guest on The Met's radio broadcasts, as well as host for numerous ''Live From The Met'' television broadcasts, he drew new audiences to opera. He was an exemplary advocate for The Met, the performing arts, and the causes he believed in. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Heather and to his children, Julia and Jefferson. Beverly Sills, Chairman of the Board William C. Morris, President Joseph Volpe, General Manager
        RANDALL--Tony. The Pace University community is saddened by the death of the charismatic founder of the National Actors Theatre which performs in residence on our downtown New York City campus. A true master teacher, and recipient of a Doctor of Humane Letters degree in 2002, his vision of artistic integrity, and his insistence on presenting firstclass, professional productions of the greatest works written for the stage, have enlightened generations of Americans, especially the high school students he invited from across the New York region. We are honored to play our role now in continuing his legacy. Aniello A. Bianco, Chairman David A. Caputo, President
        RANDALL--Tony. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Tony Randall, longtime friend of the Weizmann Institute of Science, and member of the Board of Directors of the American Committee. We extend sincere heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Robert B. Machinist, Chairman, American Committee Albert Willner, M.D., President Martin S. Kraar, Executive Vice President Stuart Eizenstat, Chairman, Weizmann Institute of Science Prof. Ilan Chet, President
        RANDALL--Tony. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted member, Tony Randall. We will miss his indomitable spirit, his passionate devotion to family, and his steadfast integrity. We are most grateful for his involvement in our Day Schools, for his generosity with our theater events, and most memorably, for his role as ''God'' in our Midrash Hour Benefit Concerts. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his beloved wife, Heather, their children Julia and Jefferson, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D., Senior Rabbi Nancy Solomon, President
        RANDALL--Tony. The Actors' Fund of America mourns the death of Tony Randall. Tony was a great and longtime supporter of the Actors' Fund and the many people helped by the Fund are eternally grateful for his efforts in improving the lives of all entertainment professionals. Our heartfelt condolences go out to his wife Heather Harlan Randall and their children Julia and Jefferson. Tom Dillon, Pres Emeritus Brian Stokes Mitchell, Pres Joe Benincasa, Exec Director
        RANDALL--Tony. We mourn the passing of a beloved friend, Tony Randall, a true legend and great humanitarian, whose memory we will always cherish. To Heather, Julia, and Jefferson, our heartfelt sympathy in this most difficult period. Diana Feldman, Special Events Committee Amer Cancer Society Eastrn Don Distasio, Hector Batista, Pierre laRamee, Denise, Luis and Terrianne
        RANDALL--Tony. We mourn the loss of our very dear friend and fellow member. His urbane wit and charm made him a welcome figure at our club and in the cultural fabric of New York City. Our love and friendship to Heather, Julia and Jefferson. He'll be sorely missed. The Players Timothy Hutton, President
      