
        KING--Alan. The Board and staff of the National Foundation for Jewish Culture mourn the death of our friend and patron, Alan King. The namesake and first recipient of the Alan King Award in American Jewish Humor, he had a love, and a loving quip, for all things Jewish. He taught us how to laugh at ourselves, in order to better understand our deepest values. May his memory be a blessing and bring a smile to all those whose lives he touched. Charlotte Newberger, President James August, Chairperson Richard Siegel, Executive Director
        KING--Alan. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn the loss of our esteemed friend and supporter. Alan brought so much laughter and friendship. He was always there for us. The world will not be as much fun without Alan King. We extend our condolences to the entire King family. Milton Gilbert, President Daniel Reingold, Exec. VP
        KING--Alan. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Fresh Meadow Country Club, record the passing of Alan King, an esteemed member of our Club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Jeanette, and to the entire family. Mark Claster, President Roger Blumencranz, Secy
        KING--Alan. The Officers and Directors of The Friars Foundation deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed longtime good friend and supporter Alan King. He was fierce in his dedication to support education for young people seeking a career in the Arts. He will be sorely missed. Leo Greenland, Chairman Cy Leslie, President
        KING--Alan. The Gilbert Family extends profound condolences on the loss of our wonderful friend. Alan's talent and subsequent resounding success brought joy and humor to us and to so many around the world. Our thoughts are with Jeanette and family. Milton and Elma Gilbert
        KING--Alan. We already miss your sarcastic smile, twinkling eyes, sense of humor and the magical moments we shared.... We extend our love and sympathies to dear Jeanette and family. ''Thanks for the memories''. Ilene, Larry, Blair & Jason Parsont
        KING--Alan. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Alan. Being a part of his and Jeanette's life for most of our lives has given us joy and laughter. Our love and deep synmpathy to Jeanette and their family Alice and Lou Weiss
        KING--Alan was a very good friend, Somebody I loved and respected for many years. We will miss him. My love and warmth at this time go to his lovely wife, Jeanette, and all their family. Mariana and George Kaufman
        KING--Alan. We extend sincere condolences to Jeanette King and family for the loss of Alan King. We are going to miss him as a loyal customer and a friend, Giorgio, Pasquele and Tony from Stresa Resaurant
        KING--Alan. We will miss our friend and partner who helped build and inspire our efforts. Our sincere condolences to his wife Jeanette and the King family. Kaufman Astoria Studios
        KING--Alan. Thanks for the laughter, thanks for the good times. You filled our lives with treasured memories. Love to Jeanette and the family. Florence and Bob Kaufman
        KING--Alan. Our hearfelt sympathy to Jeanette and the King family. Alan brought joy and laughter to so many. He will be missed by all. Glenna, Hal and the Citrin Family
        KING--Alan. Always elegant and interesting. We say goodbye to an old friend. To Jeanette, our condolences and love always. Barbara and Arthur
        KING--Alan. You've kept us laughing for years and now we are crying. Rest in peace. Grace & Sid
        KING--Alan. Thanks for the memories we shared with you and Jeanette. Joan & Arthur Spiro
      