
        RANDALL--Tony. The Board of Trustees, staff and consumers of the YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities Network mourn the passing of Tony Randall, longtime friend and Honorary Sponsor of our organization. As a frequent spokesperson for YAI/NIPD, Mr Randall played a pivotal role in promoting the rights and needs of people with developmental disabilities. He graced many of our events with his distinguished presence. The YAI/NIPD Network is greatly sorrowed by the loss of this extraordinary man. He will be missed by all of us. We extend our deepest condolences to the Randall family. Marcella Fava, Chair Paul H. Levitz, Ph.D., Vice Chair Joel M. Levy, D.S.W. Chief Executive Officer Philip H. Levy, Ph.D., President & C.O.O. YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities
        RANDALL--Tony. The Board, Staff and Company of the National Actors Theatre mourns the loss of its founder, artistic director and guiding spirit. Tony had a dream to bring the great classical repertoire of the world, with the finest actors, to a theatre that is within reach of all and he perservered tirelessly in seeing his dream come to fruition. He was most proud of the thousands of schoolchildren NAT introduced to classical theatre. Tony was indefatigable in his love for the theatre and the talents which inhabit it. We, and all those who love the theatre will miss him. Tony, your dream will continue.
        RANDALL--Tony. We mourn the passing of a beloved friend, Tony Randall, a true legend and great humanitarian, whose memory we will always cherish. To Heather, Julia, and Jefferson, our heartfelt sympathy in this most difficult period. Diana Feldman, Special Events Committee Amer Cancer Society Eastrn Don Distasio, Hector Batista, Pierre laRamee, Denise, Luis and Terrianne
        RANDALL--Tony. The Princess Grace Foundation-USA mourns the death of Tony Randall, Trustee of the Foundation since 1993. His dedication to emerging artists was evident in his service as capital master of Ceremonies for the Annual Princess Grace Awards Gala on more than one occasion. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Heather, their children, and his entire family.
        RANDALL--Tony. A most lovable man. A most loving man. In a life filled with achievement, he said the best things that ever happened to him were Heather, Julia, and Jefferson. And he was one of the best things that happened for all the rest of us. Tony, we thought you'd live forever. Your memory will. Lynne and Burt Manning
        RANDALL--Tony. New York International Ballet Competition mourns the death of our long time friend Tony Randall. We will always cherish his memory. Our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Ilona Copen Executive Director
        RANDALL--Tony. Man of Arts and Letters; opera devotee; comedian, tragedian, wit and philanthropist. Colleague and friend, given the joys of youth in his later years. We miss you. Alvin Deutsch for McLaughlin & Stern
        RANDALL--Tony. The Guide Dog Foundation for the Blind mourns the passing of our friend and supporter, Tony Randall, honorary Board member and Humanitarian Award recipient. Our deepest sympathy to his family.
      