
        RESNICK -- Lawrence M., M.D. The American Journal of Hypertension, Ltd. sadly announces the passing of its Co-Executive Editor, Lawrence M. Resnick, M.D., on Thursday, May 6. Dr. Resnick was an integral part of the American Society of Hypertension and of the American Journal of Hypertension since the Journal's inception in 1987, where he recently became its Executive Editor. Dr. Resnick was a distinguished research scientist in his chosen fields of internal medicine, hypertension and endocrinology. He was world recognized for his research on the calciotropic hormones and on the renin system, in high blood pressure and for his contributions to the treatment of high blood pressure. He was an astute clinician, beloved by the many patients for whom he provided medical care in his role as Professor of Medicine at the New York Presbyterian HospitalCornell University Medical Center. Larry's warm persona, his quick, engaging wit and skillful use of words enabled him to reach out to his colleagues and make important contributions to the science of medical practice that will be long remembered. The membership and staff of the American Society of Hypertension and the American Journal of Hypertension mourn his loss along with his wife, Molly, their three children, his mother and brother. John H. Laragh, M.D. Editor-in-Chief
        RESNICK -- Lawrence M., M.D. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of Weill Cornell Medical College and New YorkPresbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center mourn the passing of Dr. Lawrence M. Resnick, Professor of Medicine at Weill Cornell Medical College and Attending Physician at New York-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell. An innovative research scientist with a genuine love of medicine and learning, Dr. Resnick broadened our understanding of metabolic disturbances associated with diabetes, obesity, and hypertension. A kind and caring physician beloved by his patients and his colleagues, Dr. Resnick will be much missed. Our condolences to his family.
      