
        EVERETT -- Henry. The Board and Staff of the New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend Henry Everett. Henry, with his wife Edith, brought joy, fun, and learning to hundreds of thousands of NYC schoolchildren and their families through the creation of the Everett Children's Adventure Garden. Henry was committed to fighting for the ideas, causes, and people he believed in. The Garden is honored to be a part of Henry's--and Edith's--wide ranging philanthropic interests and thoughtful advocacy, which include numerous anti-smoking initiatives, Teach for America, Columbia University's Teachers College, International Hillel, National Public Radio, Dance Theater of Harlem, and founding the Everett School in Hatzor, Israel. Henry, with Edith, created and nurtured the Everett Public Service Internship Program, helping nearly 2000 young people across the nation over the last 15 years discover rewarding careers in public service through summer internships, including 60 at the Garden alone. We shall miss Henry's graciousness and genuine warmth, generous and welcoming spirit, attentive creativity and abundant optimism. Our prayers go to his wife Edith and their children and grandchildren. Wilson Nolen, Chairman Gregory Long, President Thomas J. Hubbard, Chairman Emeritus
        EVERETT -- Henry. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with sadness the death of Henry Everett, father of David, devoted Trustee and Chair of our Westchester Divisional Board. With his wife Edith, Henry Everett was a creative philanthropist and visionary focused on civil and human rights, always concerned about bringing opportunities to disadvantaged people. Our condolences to Edith, David and Karen, and Carolyn and the entire family. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive VP and CEO
        EVERETT -- Henry. Hillel joins the Everett family in mourning the passing of our beloved leader, Henry Everett. Henry's profound concern for the Jewish community, Israel, education, young people and the underprivileged permeated his life and inspired those who knew him. Through his example as well as his philanthropy, Henry Everett made the world a better place. We are all diminished by his loss. Edgar M. Bronfman Chair, Board of Governors Lynn Schusterman, Co-Chair Michael Steinhardt, Co-Chair Neil Moss Chair, Board of Directors Avraham Infeld, President
        EVERETT--Henry. The New York Chapter of the American Jewish Committee mourns the passing of Henry Everett. Henry was a cherished member of our ''family''--a man whose generous heart and moral vision inspired love, admiration and emulation. His deeds and commitment have made a lasting imprint on the Jewish people and the broader human community. We grieve with his beloved wife, Edith, his partner in their mission to ''repair the world,'' and with their wonderful children, Carolyn and David. We will miss him. Kenneth S. Brown, President Diane Steinman, Exec. Dir.
        EVERETT--Henry J. JTA, the global news service of the Jewish people, mourns the death of its longtime VP, Henry J. Everett. His boundless generosity, strong sense of ethics, passionate convictions and dogged pursuit of the causes he believed in set an example for all. Our hearts go out to Edith, his partner in life and philanthropy, and their mishpocha. May they find comfort among the mourners of Zion. Howard E. Friedman, Pres Mark J. Joffe Publisher and CEO
        EVERETT--Henry. The City University of New York mourns the passing of Henry Everett, prominent businessman, philanthropist, beloved husband of former CUNY Board Vice Chair Edith B. Everett, and father of David and Carolyn. Our deepest synmpathies are extended to the entire Everett family. Benno Schmidt Chairman Matthew Goldstein Chancellor
        EVERETT -- Henry. The CUNY Graduate Center mourns the loss of Henry Everett. We are grateful for his generosity and his service as a Board member of our Humanities Center and, previously, as a member of the Board of Visitors. Our heartfelt condolences to Edith, Carolyn and David and his family. Frances Degen Horowitz President
        EVERETT--Henry. Husband of our dear friend, Edith, father of David and Carolyn. A man of brilliance and integrity. We will miss him. Louise Mirrer, David Halle and Family
      