
        HAMMEL--Dr. Leslie M., on May 8th, 2004 in Palm Desert, CA. Born-October 5, 1911, Budapest, Hungary. An International Mining Geologist, received his doctorate in 1936 from the Royal Hungarian Joseph Nador University of Technical and Economical Sciences, in Budapest, Hungary. He authored a textbook and lectured extensively in his specialty of the coal industry. He was a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and for 25 years, was the last General Manager of the Hungarian General Collierry Company, Limited. In 1956, the Government of Vienna, Austria recommended him to the Bureau of Mines in Washington, D.C. where he started his second career. This Bureau was the largest coal mining corporation and industrial enterprise in Central Europe. He made significant contributions in the development of coal, iron ore, and copper, in South America, Australia, and South Africa. His position as Vice President of Eisenberg and Company, a large international organization, took him to 19 countries on five continents, where he had a working knowledge of six languages. He was a member of the American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical, and Petroleum Engineers Society, Mining and Exploration Society, and a senior member of the Society of Mining Engineers. In 1983, he was listed in the Who's Who in Mineral Engineering. In addition to his personal and professional achievements, he was a sensitive, G-d-fearing and honorable man, who was kind, considerate, and the personification of a gentleman. He gave his love, time, and boundless energy to his family, where he was looked up to as a father figure. Dr. Hammel was also a very generous man, and was deeply committed to the Park Avenue Synagogue, where he was a member for over 40 years, the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, the 92nd Street Y, and many other organizations which he supported anonymously. He is survived by his wife, Eszter Moritz Hammel, (his first wife of 49 years, Clara Rittersporn Hammel, passed away in 1996), his sister, Gabriella Noszlopi, his nephew, Prof. George Noszlopy, his great-nieces, Dr. Laura Noszlopy and Nina Noszlopy Williams, his great greatnephews, Matthew Noszlopy and Robert Williams, and the LeNard and Schweitzer families in Washington, D.C. A memorial service will be held today at the Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 E. 87th St., NYC, at 12 noon.
      