
        KLEIN--John. Beloved husband of the late Miriam. Devoted father of Ruth and Fred Schwalbe. Loving grandfather of Evan and Jason. Services Monday, 11:30 am, Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67 St. The family would appreciate donations to the Friends of the IDF, 298 5th Ave or Dr. Gail Roboz Leukemia Program, 520 E 70 St, Starr 340A, NY, NY 10021.
        KLEIN--John. The Hampton Synagogue mourns with profound sadness the passing of our beloved and distinguished benefactor, whose leadership and generosity were instrumental in the founding and building of our congregation. A survivor of the Holocaust, an untiring champion for the defense of the State of Israel and the honor of the Jewish people, John transmitted this noble legacy to his children, our benefactors Ruth and Fred Schwalbe and his grandsons Evan and Jason. Our deepest sympathy to the entire family. His passing has left an indelible void in the life of our congregational family. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Pres. Seymour G. Siegel, Treas.
        KLEIN--John. Park East Synagogue mourns our dedicated Trustee John Klein, Holocaust survivor, who with his late wife Miriam transmitted to their children, our devoted members, Ruth and Fred Schwalbe, a love for Torah, Israel and the Jewish people. Funeral services Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67th St, Monday, May 17, 11:30 am. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Julius H. Gewirtz, Chairman
        KLEIN--John. Rabbi Arthur Schneier, Park East Day School, mourns the death of John Klein, a dedicated founder, benefactor to our scholarship fund. Deepest sympathy to his children Ruth and Fred Schwalbe and his grandchildren Evan and Jason, who have continued his commitment to Jewish education from generation to generation.
        KLEIN--John. A mensch in every sense of the word. A true survivor--so full of life, vim and vigor until the very end. We mourn and offer hearfelt condolences to daughter and son-in-law Ruth and Fred Schwalbe, and grandsons Evan and Jason Schwalbe. We all hope for happier days to come. The Schwalbe Family and Hilson Management Corp
        KLEIN--John. A patriarch and our beacon. You survived the Holocaust and taught us how to live a Jewish life. You taught us strong family values and the highest standard of morality. We will miss you forever and think of you everyday. Ruth and Frank Evan and Jason
        KLEIN--John. We mourn the loss of our dear and beloved friend. We will remember you always. Toby, Marc, Sloane, Brendan
      