
        GUSSMAN--Lawrence, 88, of Scarsdale, NY, on May 28, 2004. Devoted husband of the late Catharine. Survived by brother Herbert Gussman of Tulsa, OK. Beloved father of William Gussman of Atlanta, GA, Margaret McCormack of Laurel Hollow, NY, and John Gussman of Hilo, HI. Adoring grandfather of Paul, James, Michael, Catharine, Stuart, Rachel and Catharine. Adoring great-grandfather of Katie, Jonathan, Thomas, Stephanie, Kelly, Scotty and Sara. Graduate of Columbia College Class of 1937, Columbia Engineering School Class of 1939. He was a recipient of the Egleston Medal for Distinguished Achievement from the Columbia Engineering School. Former President, Chairman and CEO of Stein Hall, Inc. from 1953 to 1971. He was Knighted a Knight of Malta in May, 1969 at the United Nations Chapel. Former Chairman of the Albert Schweitzer Fellowship. He was a member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, authored ''A Personal Journey,'' a description of Central African Art. The Art is at the Neuberger Museum of Art in Purchase, NY. He was also a member of the Young Presidents' Organization and subsequently a member of the Chief Executive's Forum. Visitation from 5-7 PM, Saturday at the Ballard-Durand Funeral Home, Maple Ave., White Plains, NY. Services at the same location, 10 AM on Sunday followed by a private interment in Deep River, CT. For directions, call Ballard Durand at 914-949-0566.
        GUSSMAN--Lawrence. My dear brother with whom together we experienced so many of life's joys. We always stood together in friendship, respect and love of family. He shared and later converted me to his love of West African art. To Peggy, Bill, John, their spouses and children and Sarita, I send my love. Herbert Gussman
        GUSSMAN--Lawrence. The Heyman and Adelson families mourn their uncle and great-great-uncle. A wonderful man, he possessed great insight, a wry sense of humor and a compassion for all. Our thoughts and prayers are with Peggy, William, John, their families and to our great friend Sarita Ganz.
      