
        STRAUS--Roger W., on May 25th, age 87. Husband of Dorothea, father of Roger III, grandfather of Laura, Rachel and Tamara. Brother of Florence and Oscar. Founder, president and publisher of Farrar, Straus & Giroux. Funeral at Temple Emanu'El on Friday, May 28. Memorial service at a future date to be announced.
        STRAUS--Roger W. The staff of Farrar, Straus and Giroux mourn the passing of our founder, guiding spirit, inspiration, and chief colleague, Roger W. Straus. He started his publishing company with John Farrar in 1946 and presided over its growth and development for nearly sixty years. A resolute champion of the highest values and standards, he worked with panache, irreverence, and genius to promote the interests of his beloved authors and saw the company that bears his name become a hallmark of American and international publishing. He prized excellence, honesty, and loyalty, and was to generations at FSG an inspiring boss, teammate, and cheerleader. He will be profoundly missed by his colleagues and coworkers and by his many friends and admirers in the publishing community both here and abroad. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Dorothea, his son, Roger, and daughter-in-law, Doris, and his granddaughters, Laura, Rachel, and Tamara. A memorial service will be held later in the year.
        STRAUS--Roger W. The Board of Directors of the Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Foundation mourn the death of Roger W. Straus, the grandson of our founders and a former director. We extend our sympathy to his wife Dorothea, his son Roger W. Straus 3rd, his beloved granddaughters and our fellow director, his sister Florence Hart, and his brother and our Chairman, Oscar S. Straus 2nd. Roger Straus was a man who respected and cherished family, and his insights, intelligence and vibrant presence will be deeply missed by everyone who knew him. Oscar Straus Schafer, President
        STRAUS--Roger W. We had the great privilege of knowing Roger Straus ever since the late 1970's. He was a grand and glamorous friend, always smiling, entertaining, and intemperately outspoken. A man of wit and truth-a rare sovereign. We will miss this very special friend. Farrar, Straus and Giroux, the pubishing house he created and made illustrious, is his great legacy. Dieter von Holtzbrinck Stefan von Holtzbrinck Monika Schoeller
        STRAUS--Roger W. In sorrow, Cogregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished and long-time member, Roger W. Straus. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. Herbert C. Bernard, Sec'y
        STRAUS--Roger. You defined what it means to be a ''regular'' and we will miss you deeply. You introduced us to so many remarkable people, authors and books and made us look better as a result of your friendship and loyalty. We send our condolences to your loving family and brilliant colleagues. Danny Meyer, Paul Bolles-Beaven, Michael Romano and all your friends at Union Square Cafe
      