
        CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd on April 30, 2004 at age 92. Loving father of Dorothy Treisman. Dear grandfather of Joel and Jeffrey Treisman, stepfather of Bernard Straus, Jr. and Tracy Straus and great grandfather of three. Devoted brother of Edgar M. and Lewis B. Cullman. Interment private. Memorial service Friday, May 21st at 3:30 pm at the American Museum of Natural History. Contributions in his memory may be made to World Wildlife Fund or The Atlantic Salmon Federation.
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3RD Altria Group, Inc. (formerly Philip Morris Companies Inc.) notes with great sorrow the death of Joseph F. Cullman 3rd, a former company Chairman Emeritus and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Philip Morris Incorporated. He was 92. A legendary figure in the history of Philip Morris, Mr. Cullman also ranks among the most important American chief executives in the generation that emerged following World War II. During his 21 years of service as chief executive from 1957 to 1978, Marlboro became one of the world's most valuable brands. At a time in the late 1950s and early 1960s when most American companies tended toward parochialism, Mr. Cullman had the vision to see opportunities outside the U.S. and helped to build a $1.8 billion international tobacco business by the time he retired. Additionally, a number of acquisitions in the consumer goods business, such as Miller Brewing Company, helped lay the groundwork for the company's successful diversification into the food business in the 1980s and 1990s. Under Mr. Cullman, the company also greatly expanded its philanthropic activities, becoming a significant contributor to the arts, among other areas. Mr. Cullman was himself a committed outdoorsman, conservationist and philanthropist, serving as chairman of the Atlantic Salmon Federation and on the board of the World Wildlife Fund. He also formed the Cullman Wildlife Project in Tanzania. In addition, Mr. Cullman served as Chairman of the U.S. Open Tennis Championship and as Chairman of the Tennis Hall of Fame. During World War II, Mr. Cullman distinguished himself as a U.S. Navy commander in the Pacific. He was awarded a Commendation Ribbon with seven stars for his service. Mr. Cullman led an extraordinary life and left behind a substantial legacy, not only in business, but in his service to his country and the numerous causes he believed in and supported. The Altria Board of Directors and employees of Altria's companies, pay warm tribute to Mr. Cullman's memory and his many accomplishments, and extend their deepest sympathy to his family. Mr. Cullman is survived by a daughter, Dorothy Cullman Treisman and his brothers, Edgar M. Cullman and Lewis B. Cullman. In addition to his daughter and brothers, Mr. Cullman is survived by two grandsons, Joel H. Treisman and Jeffrey D. Treisman; two stepchildren, Tracy Straus and Barnard S. Straus; and two greatgrandchildren.
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. III. The Board of Trustees of the Silver Shield Foundation express our deepest sympathy to his family so soon after the loss of their beloved Joan. We mourn the passing of our treasured and esteemed Trustee. He was a pillar of strength in his advice, counsel, and generosity to the mission of our foundation. Although his attitude towards life was reflected in the title of his book ''I am a Lucky Guy'', it should be noted that those who were fortunate to be his friends, golf or tennis partners will always cherish his memory and admire his spirit, and, in fact, are the truly ''lucky guys.'' James E. Fuchs President Kevin M. McGovern Co-Chairman William G. Walters Co-Chairman Edward T. Broderick Secretary/Treasurer
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened at the death of beloved Joe, bereft and dispirited by the painful loss of Joan just six weeks ago. Joe avidly seconded Joan's devoted commitment to Lincoln Center Theater and was wonderfully supportive and enthusiastic about the plays. Joe's autobiography, aptly titled ''I'm a Lucky Guy'', sums up Joe's sense of how his life turned out. Those who knew him well and enjoyed his friendship and generous spirit were also ''lucky guys''. We send condolences to Joe's family and colleagues. John B. Beinecke Chairman John Chalsty President Andre Bishop Artistic Director Bernard Gersten Executive Producer
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. III. The Board and Staff of the American Museum of Natural History are deeply saddened by the death of our longtime Trustee, Honorary Trustee and devoted friend, Joe Cullman. Joe cared deeply about the preservation of all life on earth and his spirit, commitment and support of the mission of the Museum will continue to inspire our work long into the future. Joe was indeed a man for all seasons. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family on the loss of this great humanitarian. Lewis W. Bernard, Chairman Ellen V. Futter, President
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. III. Game, set and match. This remarkable man, incredibly talented, and a true leader, is gone from us. To me, he was totally focused, and I have lost a true and real friend in every way. His caring helped to shape my life. Daniel I. Leonard
        CULLMAN -- Joseph. We mourn the loss of a great friend, a man of vision, passion, integrity and wit. Joe embraced life to the fullest and his death, along with the untimely passing of Joan, leaves their many friends bereft. Frieda and Roy Furman
      