
        CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd. The Atlantic Salmon Federation mourns the loss of our dear friend, former Chairman and longtime Board Member. Joe's passion for Atlantic salmon fishing inspired his involvement as a leader in the conservation movement. His great determination to save the wild Atlantic salmon was matched by his generosity and he supported many programs invaluable to the salmon's survival. The salmon greatly benefited from his vitality and resourcefulness, the same characteristics that made him a leader of industry in the United States. His expertise and support greatly assisted the Atlantic Salmon Federation in achieving recognition as the leading Atlantic salmon conservation organization in the world. Joe Cullman was a remarkable man who lived an extraordinary life. We shall greatly miss this man who excelled as business leader, a sportsman and a conservationist who considered himself to be ''A Lucky Guy.'' Donal C. O'Brien, Jr., Chairman, ASF (US) Michael Meighen, Chairman, ASF (Canada) R. William Taylor, President and CEO, ASF
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3rd. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and our International Council note with sorrow the passing of Joe Cullman, an important supporter of the Museum and brother of our devoted Trustee Lewis Cullman. We are comforted by the innumerable ways he lives on in the lives and organizations he has touched. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Cullman family. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3rd. On behalf of the Trustees, Council, and Staff of the Gomez Foundation for Mill House, we extend our heartfelt condolences to Dorothy Treisman, Joel Treisman, and Jeffrey Treisman on the passing of their dear father and grandfather, and to the extended family of Joseph F. Cullman, 3rd. Joe Cullman was the Founder and guiding light of our Foundation, which he founded 35 years ago to preserve and maintain for the enjoyment of the public, the historic Gomez Mill House established in 1714 by his ancestor, Luis Moses Gomez. Joe, you will be greatly missed. Robert A. Jacobs, President Ruth K. Abrahams, Exec Dir William Maurer, Museum Dir
        CULLMAN--Joseph F. 3rd The Board of Directors and staff of The Film Society of Lincoln Center note with great sadness the loss of a friend and dedicated supporter of the arts. We extend our sincere condolences to his family and colleagues. He will surely be missed but remembered with great appreciation by those who have been touched by his friendship and generosity. Ira M. Resnick, Chairman Henry McGee, Daniel Stern, Co-Presidents Joanne Koch, Exec. VP Claudia Bonn, Exec. Director
        CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd. The Board and Staff of People For the American Way are profoundly saddened by the passing of our longtime friend and advocate, Joe Cullman. A dedicated supporter of First Amendment issues and devoted defender of freedom of expression, Joe will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family, friends and colleagues. Ralph G. Neas, President People For the American Way
      