
        POOL--J. Lawrence. We note with sadness the passing of Dr. J. Lawrence Pool, Professor Emeritus of Neurological Surgery at Columbia University's College of Physicians & Surgeons and former Chairman of the Department of Neurological Surgery at the Neurological Institute of New York of Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Dr. Pool was one of the greatest neurosurgeons of the 20th century. A masterful and innovative surgeon, he paved the way for many advances in the care of neurosurgical patients. He possessed a brilliant intellect, a keen wit, and an abundance of charm. He was multi-talented: erudite, intellectual, a superb athlete, an excellent water colorist and a thoughtful and interesting author, having written many books on subjects as varied as fly fishing to Revolutionary War history. He was a superb teacher and mentor to countless students and young doctors. His unique combination of talents, wide range of interests, and multiple accomplishments in many fields made him truly one of the most remarkable and inspiring individuals one could ever hope to meet. Our condolences to his family. The Department of Neurological Surgery New York Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia Univ College of Physicians & Surgeons
        POOL--J. Lawrence, M.D. The Department of Neurology at Columbia University Medical Center and the Neurological Institute of New York at the New York-Presbyterian Hospital mourns the death of J. Lawrence Pool, M.D., professor of neurological surgery emeritus and chairman of the Department of Neurological Surgery from 1949 to 1972. Under Dr. Pool's leadership, the Department of Neurological Surgery at Columbia and the Presbyterian Hospital became the largest and most prestigious neurosurgical service in North America. In partnership with H. Houston Merritt, Chairman of the Department of Neurology during the same era, the Neurological Institute of New York became one of the world's great institutions for research, teaching, and patient care in the clinical neurosciences. Dr. Pool himself made unparalleled contributions to the field of neurological surgery; his influence continues through the many neurosurgeons he trained. His was a life well lived and one we continue to celebrate. Timothy A. Pedley, M.D. Chairman Department of Neurology Columbia University Lewis P. Rowland, M.D. Chairman, Emeritus Department of Neurology Columbia University
      