
        FARMER--Carol. World renowned futurist, consumer trend analyst, captivating keynote speaker and strategic advisor to the Fortune 50 on issues of marketing and positioning. Carol died, unexpectedly, of a massive stroke on June 19, 2004, in Delray Beach, Florida, while visiting from her home, Brenguelven, in Landudec, France. Born in Columbus, Ohio on August 14, 1944 to John Edwin Farmer and the late Ruth Cooper Farmer, she is survived by her father and stepmother, Jeannine of Columbus. She graduated from DePauw University in Greencastle, Indiana and spent her early business career with the strategic consulting firms, Management Horizons and The Doody Company in Columbus, and then as Executive Vice President, Marketing, for Lerner Stores and the retail divisions of American Can, both in New York. Her prominence and recognition grew in the mid - eighties when she opened her own firm, Carol Farmer Associates, first in New York City, then in Boca Raton, Florida and, in 1994 in France. Carol was actively involved in numerous management and retail-related organizations and served as a director of two NYSE listed companies ---The Sports Authority and Lowe's Corporation. She was respected for her unique angle of vision, one that translated complex social, economic, political and cultural issues into business solutions. In the early nineties, Carol launched trendtrax as an interactive video newsletter for senior management. Her latest body of work converged in the concept she termed, ''Second Wind,'' insights and analysis of how baby boomers are continuing to re-define the aging process. Carol was a voracious reader, a lifelong learner and an early adopter of the creative use of computer technology. She was loved deeply by a worldwide circle of friends who have come together this past week to express their grief and console one another via e-mail and telephone. Carol will be remembered for her infectious curiosity; her generosity to friends; her beloved Bedlington terriers; and her latest passions ---Brittany and combining her life-long skill in painting with photography, video and digitized imagery. Her remains will be cremated and her ashes scattered over the waters at Pte. du Brezelec in Brittany. Celebrations of the life of Carol Farmer will be held in both Columbus and New York City and will be announced at a later date. Contributions can be made in her memory to the Animal Rescue League, 3200 N. Military Trail, W. Palm Beach, Florida, 33409, 561-686-3663.
      