
        EDWARDS--Kathleen Bryan Taylor. Of Greensboro, North Carolina died on June 11, 2004. She was the granddaughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Julian Price of Greensboro, NC and the late Mr. and Mrs. Bart Bryan of Florida, and the daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Bryan. A Mass celebrating the life of Kay Bryan Edwards will be celebrated by Monsignor Anthony J. Marcaccio, Monday at 11:00 AM in Our Lady of Grace Catholic Church. There will be a private burial service. Mrs. Edwards graduated from the Madeira School in Washington, DC, attended UNCG, and graduated from Sweet Briar College. She received honorary doctorates from Sacred Heart College and Belmont Abbey College. Bennett College awarded her Outstanding Leadership to Education. She served on many local, state and national boards. She was President of The Kathleen Price Bryan Foundation and The Julian Price Family Foundation. Mrs. Edwards was a member of the Wednesday Study Club, Wednesday Literary Club, Little Gate Garden Club, The Friday Club, Greensboro Junior League, Greensboro Women's Investment Club, and Greensboro Committee of the Colonial Dames of America in the State of North Carolina and gave support to many groups of charitable, cultural, historical and environmental non-profit organizations. Surviving are her children: Laura Edwards of Chapel Hill, Susan Edwards of Greensboro, Pricey Taylor Harrison of Greensboro, Melanie Taylor and her daughters, Kathleen Clay, Anne and Margaret Farland of Chapel Hill, NC; John Taylor, his wife, Leslie, and their daughters, Saskia and Annelies of Madison, WI; Kathleen Clay Taylor of Cranberry Island, Maine, Bryan Taylor, his wife, Carolyn and their children, McKinley, Caroline and Julian of Charlotte, NC; Howard Taylor, his wife, Shawn and their daughters, Gavin, Victoria and Kathleen of McLean, VA; Mrs. Edwards' sister, Nancy Faircloth, and brother, Joseph Bryan, Jr. Memorial contributions may be made to Greensboro Urban Ministry, 305 W. Lee St., Greensboro, NC 27406 or the charity of your choice. For more information, contact Hanes-Lineberry N. Elm Street Funeral Home in Greensboro, NC. Online condolences may be sent to www.haneslineberry.com
      