
        KELMAN--Charles D., MD. Died on June 1, 2004 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Ann. Devoted father to Lesley Kelman Koeppel; Jennifer, Evan, Jason and Seth Kelman, and deceased son David. Beloved father-in-law to David Koeppel. Brother and brother-in-law to Ruth and Robert Dorfman and grandfather (beloved Poppy) to Noah, Adam and Claire Koeppel. Funeral services will be held on Friday, June 4th at 1:30PM. Temple BethEl, 333 SW 4th Ave, Boca Raton, FL. Family considering a Memorial Service in NY at future date. Contributions in his memory may be made to: The Dr. Charles and Ann Kelman Family Foundation, Inc, 220 Madison Ave, New York, New York 10016.
        KELMAN--Charles D. The NY Intraocular Lens Implant Society will sorely miss the legendary leader of our generation who revolutionized ophthalmology, and in doing so liberated our growing senior population from blindness due to cataracts. He single-handedly developed a method of cataract removal that made a tedious hospital procedure fraught with complications into an ambulatory operation allowing almost immediate full recovery. As a founding member of the NYILIS, he helped develop plastic lenses that could be placed inside the eye to replace the cataractous lens. The societal impact of this feat is monumental as it mobilizes a vast population that would otherwise be severely visually handicapped. Charlie also had a joyous lifestyle from virtuoso saxophonist, helicopter pilot, champion golfer, but most of all a loving husband to Ann and a devoted father. He played a major role as a teacher and traveled the world simplifying complicated concepts and generously sharing his genius with worldwide ophthalmology. He was a courageous innovator and has been honored by many ophthalmic societies. He will be sorely missed by his friends and colleagues.
        KELMAN--Charles D., M.D. The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary Medical Staff and Administration note with sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague and attending surgeon in the Department of Ophthalmology. A pioneer in the field, Dr. Kelman developed the technique of phacoemulsification, which revolutionized cataract surgery. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Ann and his entire family. Joseph B. Walsh, M.D., Chairman, Dept. of Ophthalmology Joseph P. Corcoran, President and CEO
        KELMAN--Charles. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Dr. Charles Kelman, a pioneering physician, and cherished friend of the New York Jewish community. We extend our deepest sympathies to his children; to his grandchildren; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        KELMAN--Charles D., MD. Charlie-We have shared our lives personally, business and every other facet for what seems an eternity. You have left your imprint and a legacy that will live on forever. What a privilege it has been to have been part of this incredible journey. The memories could never be eradicated from my memory and heart. Your dear friend Meyer (Mike) Temkin
        KELMAN--Charles D. M.D. We mourn the loss of our dear and special friend. A man of many special talents, we will miss his extraordinary sense of humor, compassion and friendship. We were fortunate to be considered his friend. Our deepest sympathy to Ann, his children and family. Lynne and Jack Dodick
        KELMAN--Charles D., MD. A teacher, a friend, a humanitarian. He changed the way the world sees. In our hearts forever, our deepest sympathy and love to Ann and the family. Susan and Sol Liebowitz, MD
        KELMAN -- Charles, M.D. Friends for 27 years. You made a difference in the world. Rest in peace. Love, Myrna, Mike, Terri, Joanne and Karen
        KELMAN--Charles D., MD. Our sincere condolences to the entire Kelman family. Meyer (Mike) Temkin, Liz and Michael
        KELMAN--Charles, MD. He was an easy guy to love... Eda and Steve Baruch
      