
        BUTCHER -- Charles. Busi nessman and philanthropist known for his generosity and passion for knowledge and justice, died at his home on June 12, 2004 after a long illness. At the time of his death, he lived in Boulder, CO, and maintained a family home in Maine. Charles Butcher was born in 1916 in Cambridge, MA, and attended Harvard University, where he earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Mathematical Economics. He was a conscientious objector during World War II and, as a consequence, received what he called his ''postgraduate education'' in federal prison and work camps. He continued to live his values for the rest of his life. In 1951, after several years in the printing business, Charles Butcher joined the Butcher Company, a familyowned floor care products company in Massachusetts. He became CEO shortly thereafter. Over the next five decades, he developed the Butcher Company from a small regional firm into a large, successful, socially responsible company with international reach, 100 times its original size. A pioneer in thinking about socially responsible business practices, he was invited to lecture at business schools and consult with business leaders. When he sold the Butcher Company, then headquartered in Marlborough, MA, to Johnson Wax Professional in 2000, Charles Butcher and his wife, distributed $18 million of the sale proceeds to the company's 325 employees. He published a book, How to Succeed in Business by Giving Away Millions. A lifelong fascination with science led Charles Butcher, in 1965, to found the Lazy Eight, a network of scientists interested in cross - disciplinary ap proaches to technical problem-solving, education and issues of poverty. In 1973 he began working with Dr. Larry Gold in the lab of the Molecular Cellular and Developmental Biology Department of the University of Colorado. In 1986, he was chairman of the board of Clonetics, a biotech start-up that gained international recognition for its genetic research; in 1991 he joined the board of NeXagen, a biomedical company. With Dr. Gold, he designed the Discovery Exchange to promote cooperation between academic scientists and business. In addition to his direction of the Butcher Company, his work with high-tech and biotech startups, and his own scientific research, Charles Butcher spent decades as an active and creative philanthropist. He dedicated his giving to encouraging and promoting civil liberties, -big-picturescientific thinking and creative cross-disciplinary research. In 2002, in recognition of his longstanding, continuous support for civil liberties and his leadership as a board member, the American Civil Liberties Union of Colorado presented Charles Butcher its 50th Anniversary Champion of Liberty Award. Charles Butcher, with his wife, in 2002, contributed $1.1 million to the University of Colorado to fund the launch of the Colorado Initiative in Molecular Biotechnology, which is using a multidisciplinary approach to unlock genomics secrets to improve the quality of life and health for all people. An energetic entrepreneur, a master sailor, and a generous friend and mentor, Charles Butcher was the father of eight children. His wife, the former Jane Weinberg, is a founder of the Women of the West Museum, the Co-Chair of the University of Colorado Conference on World Affairs and Co-Chair of Mother Jones magazine. Charles Butcher is survived by his wife, Jane, his children Catherine Butcher and husband Ben Pfohl, Susan Butcher and husband David Monson, Kimiko Butcher and husband Neil Grundy, Benjamin Butcher, Claudine Butcher and husband Michael Hannigan, Gina Lasky and husband David Lasky, and Andrew Butcher and grandchildren Ethan Pfohl, Naomi Pfohl, Tekla Monson, Chisana Monson, Charles Grundy and Rachel Grundy. His son, Charles Evan Butcher, predeceased him. Donations in memory of Charles Butcher may be sent to the American Civil Liberties Union of Colorado, 400 Corona Street, Denver, CO 80218; the Colorado Initiative in Molecular Biotechnology, C/O the CU Foundation, 4740 Walnut Street, Boulder, CO 80306; Hospice Care of Boulder and Broomfield Counties, 2594 Trailridge Drive E., Ste A, Lafayette, CO 80026; or Hemlock Foundation, PO Box 101801, Denver, CO 80246. A private memorial service was held in Boulder June 19.
      