
        SUSSMAN -- Albert. Died peacefully at home on June 8, 2004 after a long illness. Predeceased by his loving wife, Phyllis. Beloved father and grandfather of Bernard (Katherine), Daniel (Jill), Phyllis (Zachary), Rachel and Melanie. Executive VicePresident Emeritus, International Council of Shopping Centers. Funeral services on June 10 at 10 AM, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Ave and 91st Street.
        SUSSMAN--Albert. We have lost a beloved cousin and dear friend. He filled our lives with love, humor and warmth; with a devotion to study and learning; and with his enormous pride in his family and his heritage. He leaves to us and to the world a wonderful legacy of caring and generous children and grandchildren. He always gave to us ''that best portion of a good man's life--his little, nameless, unremembered acts of kindness and of love.'' We will miss him always. Charlotte Schluger Neil & Leona Schluger Olga & Philip Prince James & Rosemary Schluger
        SUSSMAN--Albert. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President
        SUSSMAN--Albert. We are so grateful for our lives being enriched by Al Sussman. We remember him with great appreciation and gratitude for the enormous contribution to our industry. He was a ''mensch.'' Kimco Realty Corporation Martin S. Kimmel Milton Cooper
        SUSSMAN -- Albert. We mourn the passing of our very dear friend. A special person who has always been a warm, loving influence in our lives. Albie, we will remember with joy, the happy memories of our many times spent together. Carol & the Chandler Family
        SUSSMAN--Al. The Board of Directors of The City College Fund expresses its deepest sympathy to the family of its former member Al Sussman. Stanley H. Kaplan, Chair Herbert Robinson, President James L. Schatz, Exec. Dir.
      