
        NEUWIRTH--Benjamin. CPA, died at his home in New York City June 16, 2004 at the age of 102. He is survived by his wife of seventy-three years, Anna. Beloved father of Sylvia Wagner (Robert), of Rockville, MD., and Paul D. Neuwirth (Delany), of Philadelphia, PA. He is also survived by grandchildren, Stephen R. Neuwirth (Nataly), James G. Neuwirth (Sandra), Leslie R. Wagner, David E. Wagner, and Richard H. Neuwirth, and four great grandchildren. Ben Neuwirth graduated The City College of New York in 1923. He was a partner in the international certified public accounting firm, Grant, Thornton, LLP., until his retirement in 1971. Prior to his Grant Thornton affiliation, he was a senior partner in the New York CPA firm, Klein, Hines and Finke. Mr. Neuwirth was an Adjunct Lecturer in accounting at Baruch College for two decades. He was a Vice President and Chairman of the publications committee of The New York State Society of CPA's. Mr. Neuwirth was a director and honorary chairman of The Board of The Riverdale YMYWHA where the auditorium and training facility are named in his honor. Until his death, he was a Trustee of the charitable Harry DeJur Foundation. Funeral service June 17th at 10 A.M. at The Park East Synagogue, 164 East 68th Street. Burial will follow in Mount Zion Cemetery in Maspeth, Long Island. Contributions may be made to The Riverdale YM-YWHA, 5625 Arlington Avenue, Bronx, NY 10471.
        NEUWIRTH--Benjamin. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our centenarian member, Benjamin Neuwirth. Beloved husband of Anna, father of Paul and Delaney Neuwirth, Sylvia and Robert Wagner, grandfather of Stephen, James and Richard Neuwirth, Lesley and David Wagner. Deepest sympathy to the entire family. Funeral services Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67 St., Thursday, June 17, 10 AM. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President
        NEUWIRTH--Benjamin. The Trustees and staff of the Riverdale Y mourn the loss of our Honorary Board Chairman, esteemed colleague, friend and benefactor. We will miss his keen insights and devotion to our mission. May Anna and his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. January Akselrad, President Judy Kaufthal, Chair Diane Rubin, Exec VP
      