
        SANDS--Bruce A., 72, of Longboat Key, FL and Rye Brook, NY on June 13 of colon cancer at home surrounded by loved ones. He is survived by his devoted and beloved wife Lillian, his greatly loved and loving children Leslie, Karen, Stephen, Allison and Jennifer, his steadfastly devoted stepdaughters, Hope and Rebecca, his loving brother Robert, his adored and adoring grandchildren Emma, Graham, Rachel, Jenna, Benjamin, Hannah, Jesse and Greyson, his always supportive and caring sons-in-law Michael Milsom, Andrew Greenspan and Scott Oling and loving daughter-in-law Jill Sands. Born and raised on the West side of Manhattan, he moved to Longboat Key in 1990. After graduating from Horace Mann and Yale, he served as an officer in the US Navy. He has been involved in community service since moving to Florida. He served on the boards of the Jewish Community Center and Temple Beth Israel as President, as well as the American Jewish Committee. He served as the first Chairman of the Center for Catholic/ Jewish Studies (an outgrowth of the American Jewish Committee and Saint Leo University). His passion for the Temple Beth Israel Men's Club, of which he is Past President, and the importance of children is highlighted with his deep involvement in helping to send children to Camp Coleman in Cleveland, GA. He was a recipient of the Jewish National Fund's Tree of Life award and greatly appreciated the beauty and love of his extended family in Longboat Key and at Temple Beth Israel. He recognized the power of family, friends and service and the importance of making a difference. He will never forget the great fortune of having a loving, caring family and he will never be forgotten. Funeral service to be held at Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Boston Post Rd. in Rye New York on June 15 at 1 P.M. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent in his name to Camp Coleman, 201 Camp Coleman Dr., Cleveland, GA 30528.
        SANDS--Bruce. To our dear Karen, our hearts are broken for you and your family. Your Dad's determination was an inspiration for all. We're always here for you. Karen, Ray, Michael, Spencer and Chelsea
      