
        WATERS--Michael F. X. On June 10, 2004 at age 71, of Manhattan and Tivoli, NY. Proud graduate of Cardinal Hayes High School, Saint John's University, and Saint John's University School of Law. Director of Academic Affairs and Associate Clinical Professor at the Real Estate Institute, New York University. Survived by his wife of 48 years, Dr. Margaret (Peggy) Waters. Father of Dr. Mary C. Waters, Michael Waters, Dr. Anne Waters, Dr. Elizabeth Waters, Thomas Waters, Margaret Waters, Dr. John P. Waters, and The Honorable Joan Waters. Beloved ''PopPop'' of 16 grandchildren. Brother of John Waters and Margaret Martin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81 St., Sunday and Monday, 2:005:00-and 7:00-9:00 PM. Mass of Christian Burial at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Ave. at 84 St., Tuesday 11:00 AM. Interment to follow at Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Sleepy Hollow, NY. Contributions in his memory may be made to The American Heart Association. Requiescat in Pace.
        WATERS--Michael F. X. It is with profound sadness that the Real Estate Institute at New York University's School of Continuing and Professional Studies mourns the loss of its esteemed colleague and friend, Michael F. X. Waters. As Director of Academic Affairs and Clinical Associate Professor for the Master of Science in Real Estate program, Mike has served the students, faculty, the real estate industry and the NYU community almost from the inception of the graduate program which began in 1989. His wisdom, kindness, integrity and generosity of spirit have touched all of us through the years. Our love and deepest sympathy are extended to Mike's wife, Peggy, and to his children and grandchildren. He will be dearly missed. May he rest in peace. Visiting hours will be Sunday, June 13th, and Monday, June 14th, from 2 to 5 p.m. and from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, Madison Avenue and 81st Street, New York City. The Funeral Mass will be held on Tuesday, June 15th at 11:00 a.m. at the St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Avenue and 84th St., New York City. D. Kenneth Patton Associate Dean James D. Kuhn Advisory Board Chairman
      