
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. On June 1, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Frank Dickstein and the late Stanley I. Gilbert. Loving mother of Dennis and Nancy Gilbert, Pam and Jeffrey Gittleman, Lauren and Barry Siegel, and Judith Dickstein. Adoring grandmother of Shane and Lee Gilbert, Hallie and Jill Gittleman, Jodi and Stuart Zgodny and Matthew Wood. Great-grandmother of Jordan and Dylan Zgodny. Dear sister of Harold and Thelma Shuster, and George and Lucille Shuster. Devoted sister-in-law of Henrietta and Howard Sanford. She is also survived by her devoted caregiver and friend, Cecelia Nunez. Funeral service on Friday, June 4, 2004, 1:00 PM at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, NY. Contributions in memory of Mrs. Dickstein may be made to The White Plains Hospital Center.
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Edith Dickstein, a treasured supporter of the New York Jewish community. We extend our deepest sympathies to her children; to her grandchildren; and to the entire family. Larry Zicklin, President Morris W. Offit, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. Always helping and caring for others. A true and special friend. You will always be remembered as a class act. We shall miss you. Terry and Seymour Sobel
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. A wonderful and generous friend. You will be missed. May you and Albert continue your meaningful ties. Condolences to your entire family. Barbara Berger
        DICKSTEIN -- Edith. My closest friend and confidante; a caring and charming woman of valor, you will be sorely missed. Beatrice Bergman
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. A best friend, we laughed together at everything. I shall miss her honesty and spirit. Peg Candee Lurie
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. We join your many friends who realize we were lucky to have known you and loved you. Irma and Paul Milstein
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. Bei mir bist du schon. Treasured memories forever. Selma and Marty Rosen
      