
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. On June 1, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Frank Dickstein and the late Stanley I. Gilbert. Loving mother of Dennis and Nancy Gilbert, Pam and Jeffrey Gittleman, Lauren and Barry Siegel, and Judith Dickstein. Adoring grandmother of Shane and Lee Gilbert, Hallie and Jill Gittleman, Jodi and Stuart Zgodny and Matthew Wood. Great-grandmother of Jordan and Dylan Zgodny. Dear sister of Harold and Thelma Shuster, and George and Lucille Shuster. Devoted sister-in-law of Henrietta and Howard Sanford. She is also survived by her devoted caregiver and friend, Cecelia Nunez. Funeral service on Friday, June 4, 2004, 1:00 PM at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, NY. Contributions in memory of Mrs. Dickstein may be made to The White Plains Hospital Center.
        DICKSTEIN -- Edith. The Board of Directors, management and staff of White Plains Hospital Center mourn with extreme sorrow the passing of our dear friend, Board member and benefactor, Mrs. Edith Dickstein. Edie's, along with her beloved late husband Frank's, participation and contributions to our Hospital spanned more than 30 years and did a great deal to make possible our pre-eminent position as the leading health care provider in Westchester County. Her continuing support and inspirational leadership created the Dickstein Cancer Treatment Center, Westchester's only free-standing cancer treatment facility, which offers compassionate stateof-the-art cancer care. Edie's devotion to the Hospital was extraordinary. She was a respected philanthropist who was deeply committed to improving the quality of life for families and children. Her endearing nature and vivacious spirit will be missed by all of us. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her children: Dennis and Nancy Gilbert, Pam and Jeffrey Gittleman, and Laurie and Barry Siegel and their children and grandchildren. Robert Feder, Chairman of the Board of Directors Jon B. Schandler, President and CEO
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. The children of Thelma and Harold Shuster mourn the loss of our aunt, Edith Dickstein, who passed away Tuesday, June 1. Tanta Edie was a person of great warmth, humor, generosity and blessed with an unparalleled spirit for life. She personified her motto of Live, Love, Laugh and brought joy to all who came to know her. We will all greatly miss our Auntie Mame. Condolences to our cousins Pam, Jeff, Hallie, and Jill Gittleman and Nancy, Dennis, Shane and Lee Gilbert. Ellen Eskenazi and Andrew Shuster, Phyllis Shuster, Karen and Alan Medoff, and Steven and Denise Shuster
        DICKSTEIN -- Edith. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn the loss of our beloved Director and friend. Edith was a charming, warm and generous person who devoted herself to making the world a better place. We will miss her terribly. The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale Milton A. Gilbert, President Daniel Reingold, Exec. VP
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. Our beloved Edith was a fighter who championed many causes. Her determination was equalled by her wonderful sense of humor, loyalty and great friendship. We were so fortunate to be considered her friends. Our loss is deeply felt. We extend our condolences to the entire Dickstein family. Milton and Elma Gilbert
        DICKSTEIN -- Edith. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Edith Dickstein. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary
        DICKSTEIN -- Edith. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, Edith Dickstein. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her entire family. Paul Levy, President Monty Davis, Secretary
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. A most giving, loyal, talented friend who loved life. She leaves so many happy, fun memories. Our deepest sympathy to Pam, Dennis, Hank and her grandchildren. Rest in peace, our dear friend. Carole & Al Schragis
        DICKSTEIN -- Edith. Witty, charming, gregarious was our dear friend Edye. We grieve her passing. We will miss her sorely. Muriel and Howard Weingrow
        DICKSTEIN--Edie. Adieu dear friend. We share in the family's loss. Edie--a charming, warm hearted, caring friend whom we will miss sorely. Caryl and Stanley Schaffer
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. We join your many friends who realize we were lucky to have known you and loved you. Irma and Paul Milstein
        DICKSTEIN--Edith. A true woman of valor and a very dear friend. Rest in peace. Karen and Martin Berger
      