
        KELMAN--Charles D., MD. Died on June 1, 2004 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Ann. Devoted father to Lesley Kelman Koeppel; Jennifer, Evan, Jason and Seth Kelman, and deceased son David. Beloved father-in-law to David Koeppel. Brother and brother-in-law to Ruth and Robert Dorfman and grandfather (beloved Poppy) to Noah, Adam and Claire Koeppel. Funeral services will be held on Friday, June 4th at 1:30PM. Temple BethEl, 333 SW 4th Ave, Boca Raton, FL. Family considering a Memorial Service in NY at future date. Contributions in his memory may be made to: The Dr. Charles and Ann Kelman Family Foundation, Inc, 220 Madison Ave, New York, New York 10016.
        KELMAN--Dr. Charles D. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of Dr. Charles D. Kelman member, fellow golfer, friend and past Senior Club Champion. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to Charlie's wife Ann, his children Lesley, Jennifer, Evan, Jason and Seth and the rest of his family. Robert E. Morrow, President Harvey L. Radler, Secretary
        KELMAN--Charles D., MD. The membership and Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, FL, announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member Charles D. Kelman, M.D. and extend our sincerest condolences to his wife Ann and their family. Melvin S. Taub, President Boca Rio Golf Club, Inc.
        KELMAN--Charles, M.D. We will remember Charlie as a physician, inventor, musician, author, pilot and most of all, a great husband, father, grandfather and friend. He was a true friend who was ready to serve his friends at any time on any day. Our love to Ann and the family. Sandi and Robert Adler
        KELMAN--Charles D. Charlie, you were a dear, dear friend and will be missed forever. Knowing you was a joy and a privilege. Deepest sympathy to Ann, the children and his sister Ruth. Tibby & Abby
        KELMAN--Charles, M.D. If Charlie had lived to be 110 he would have passed away too soon. A great loss to his family and all his friends. Sandy and Joel Busel Susan and Sam Posner
      