
        TYSON--Michael M., retired Kidder, Peabody and Company Vice-President, active volunteer and athlete, died suddenly Sunday while biking near his Santa Fe, New Mexico home. The cause was a massive heart attack. Michael was born in Bryn Mawr, PA, in May 1933. After spending most of his youth working summers on the family dairy farm in Falls Village, CT, Michael graduated from Phillips Andover Academy in 1952. Following school, he served four years in the U.S. Navy, then attended Babson College where he received a BSBA (1959) and an MBA (1963). He began his professional career in 1959 at United Business Service as an investment consultant, and then moved to Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. in 1963 as a securities analyst. In 1966, Michael worked as a broker for Smith Barney, and left there as Vice-President in 1980 to open and manage the first Kidder, Peabody and Co. office in Hartford, CT. Michael retired from Kidder in 1993. A lifelong traveler, Michael and his wife, Sarah, moved to France in 1994 to spend a year in Annecy. Upon their return from France, Michael and Sarah moved to Santa Fe, NM, where he immediately immersed himself in a wide range of volunteer activities with various organizations, including the St. Vincent Hospital Board, Kitchen Angels, Habitat for Humanity, AARP tax preparation, numerous Las Campanas boards, and the Kaune School. He is survived by his wife, Sarah Tyson; his sister, Rosemary Beer of Farmington, CT, and his three daughters, Jennifer Mandrack, of Denver, CO, Abigail Ciambrone of New York, NY, and Amanda Tyson of San Juan de Plan, Spain. He is also survived by his two stepchildren, James Condon of Easton, MA, and Jeanine Keay of Baltimore, MD, and his six grandchildren, Evan, Jennifer, Julia, Lino, Maya, and Micaela. Michael's friends and family will always remember him as a strong individual with a tremendous love of life whose hard work, great humor, and generosity were an inspiration and example to us all. Bat da da dat dat, da dat! A celebration of Michael's life will be held at 7:00 P.M., Sunday, June 20th, at the Las Campanas Spa in Santa Fe. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that contributions be made to the Kitchen Angels Endowment Fund, 1222 Siler Road, Santa Fe, NM 87507. The family thanks the Good Samaritans who tried.
      