
        GOTESMAN -- Natan. 1914-2004. Beloved husband of Berta for 57 years, cherished father of Mike and Margaret, Toby and Marc, grandfather of Mardi Sloane and Brendan, survivor of the holocaust, man of extraordinary faith and builder of the Portland Orthodox community. Funeral services today at 10 AM ''The Riverside'' 180 W. 76 St, NYC. Interment Portland, Oregon. Contributions in his memory to The Hampton Synagogue. You will forever be in our hearts.
        GOTESMAN -- Natan. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of an extraordinary righteous and saintly man who was the very model of Torah and Chesed. He took great delight in the achievements of his cherished daughter, our Rebetzin Toby Schneier and his son-in-law, our esteemed Rabbi Marc Schneier. Heartfelt sympathy to his beloved family, his wife Berta, son Mike, daughter-inlaw Margaret and grandchildren Mardi, Sloane and Brendan. He touched the lives of countless members in our community. He leaves behind a legacy of profound grace, keen intellect, abiding faith and deep humility. Funeral service today, 10AM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St and Amsterdam Avenue. Ariel Konstantyn Associate Rabbi Israel Rand Cantor Michael B. Weisbrod President Seymour G. Siegel Treasurer Gerald Rausnitz Secretary
        GOTESMAN -- Natan. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of the father of Toby Schneier, a valued member of the board of directors of Stern College. Together with his wife, Berta, both Holocaust survivors, Natan was a highly respected leader of the Orthodox Jewish community in Portland, OR. Ms. Schneier emulated his example of service by cofounding The Hampton Synagogue in Westhampton Beach, NY, with her husband, Rabbi Marc Schneier, for which she was honored by Yeshiva University Women's Organization (YUWO) and Stern College. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her and her entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Ronald P. Stanton, Chairman Board of Trustees Marjorie Diener Blenden Chairman SCW Board of Directors
        GOTESMAN--Natan. We are saddened by the loss of Natan Gotesman, beloved husband of Berta, loving father of our children Toby and Rabbi Marc Schneier and adoring grandfather of Sloane and Brendan. A man of faith, he emerged from the Holocaust to see nachat from his children and grandchildren. May they find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Our love and deepest sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur and Elisabeth Schneier
        GOTESMAN -- Natan. The North American Board of Rabbis mourns the passing of Natan Gotesman, father of Toby Schneier, father-in-law of Rabbi Marc Schneier, President of NABOR and extends its heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. Rabbi Jay H. Rosenbaum Secretary General Rabbi Ronald Brown Vice President Rabbi Lionel Moses Secretary Rabbi Dannel Schwartz Treasurer
        GOTESMAN -- Natan. We mourn the passing of our very dear friend. He filled our lives with love and warmth; with a devotion to study and learning; and with enormous pride in his family and his heritage. He will be dearly missed. Heartfelt condolences to the entire family. The Rausnitz Family
        GOTESMAN -- Natan. The Foundation for Ethnic Understanding mourns the passing of the beloved father of Toby Schneier and father-in-law of Rabbi Marc Schneier. We extend our heartfelt sympathy. Russell Simmons, Chairman Lawrence Kopp, Exec Dir
        GOTESMAN--Natan. A gentle man with a warm heart and a true love of Yiddishkeit. Always in our hearts, never to be forgotten. Janie, Robert & Todd Fisher
      