
        ABRAMSON--Ruth, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. A pillar of the Mount Sinai community for more that 40 years, Dr. Abramson was a clinician, researcher, administrator, teacher, mentor and a role model to all. Her passion for scholarship and commitment to medical excellence inspired the hundreds of young physicians she trained in the specialty of renal disease. In 1997 The Mount Sinai Alunmi presented its most coveted award the Jacobi Medallion to Dr. Abramson in acknowledgment of her outstanding professional achievements and her extraordinary service to the Medical Center and the alumni. Our sincere condolences are extended to her family. William G. Stein, M.D. President Barry D. Stimmel, M.D. Vice President Elliot J. Rayfield, M.D. Secretary Betty J. Mintz, M.D. Treasurer
        ABRAMSON -- Ruth. The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourns the passing of Ruth G. Abramson, MD, Professor in the Samuel A. Bronfman Department of Medicine and Director of the Mount Sinai Institutional Review Board. A renowned researcher and clinician, she set standards of ethical conduct and effective administrative oversight that have ensured the successful and safe conduct of human subjects research at Mount Sinai and reset national standards. She was a remarkable teacher who trained countless medical students and served as a mentor to many junior faculty members. Her patients praised her dedication to their individual concerns. Every day she challenged the Mount Sinai community to live up to its highest values of caring, communicating, teaching and seeking new knowledge. We extend our sincerest sympathy to her family and friends. Peter W. May, Chairman of the Boards of Trustees Kenneth L. Davis, MD President, CEO and Dean
        ABRAMSON--Ruth, M.D. We mourn the passing of our beloved cousin Ruth Abramson, M.D. on June 4, 2004 in New York City. She was the devoted daughter of the late Abraham and Grace Abramson. Ruth will be warmly remembered by her family, friends and colleagues at Mount Sinai Medical Center and School of Medicine for her lifelong commitment to research and teaching. Lila and Herb Abramson
      