
        IMPERATORE--George E., 82, of Boca Raton, Florida formerly of Franklin Lakes died on June 25, 2004 in Boca Raton. Family sources report that Mr. Imperatore's death resulted from a chronic heart condition. Mr. Imperatore was born in West New York, New Jersey, educated in the local schools, served in the Civilian Conservation Corps. and as a Seabee in the Navy during World War II. Upon his discharge from the service, Mr. Imperatore and four of his brothers founded in 1947 what became A-P-A Transport Corp., which was for many years one of the most successful transporation companies in the United States. Mr. Imperatore served A-P-A, based in North Bergen, New Jersey with terminals throughout the eastern United States and Canada, as Executive Vice President and Director of Sales until his retirement from A-PA in 1982. Among many transportation industry honors and distinctions that Mr. Imperatore earned was his Presidency for many years of the Traffic Club of Northern New Jersey. Upon his retirement from A-P-A, Mr. Imperatore and two of his sons founded in 1985 Imperatore Courier Systems, Inc., a courier service based in Little Ferry, New Jersey. Mr. Imperatore was also a significant investor in real estate projects in New Jersey and in Florida, to which he moved in the early 1990's. Mr. Imperatore was extremely committed to a large number of charitable and civic causes, including The Paige Whitney Babies Center in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, Deborah Hospital in New Jersey, The Boy Scouts of America and The American Cancer Society. Mr. Imperatore also served with distinction as Vice Chairman of The Palisades Interstate Commission in New Jersey and New York in the late 1980's, in which capacity Mr. Imperatore assisted in curbing development above The Palisades in New York and New Jersey. Mr. Imperatore is survived by his wife, Sandra, of Boca Raton; his sister, Anna Kortrey of Bogota, New Jersey and his brother, Arthur E. Imperatore, Sr. of Weehawken, New Jersey; five sons, George G. of River Vale, New Jersey; Mark H. of Franklin Lakes, New Jersey; Harold J. of Basking Ridge, New Jersey; John A. of Wyckoff, New Jersey; Luke E. of Riverside, Connecticut; and sixteen grandchildren. Mr. Imperatore may be viewed at Vander - Plaat - Vermeulen Memorial Home, 530 High Mountain Road, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey on Wednesday, June 30, 2004 from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. There will be a Mass of the Resurrection for Mr. Imperatore at Most Blessed Sacrament Roman Catholic Church, 787 Franklin Lake Road, Franklin Lakes on Thursday, July 1, 2004 at 10:00 a.m. Mr. Imperatore's family requests that, in lieu of flowers, donations be made to the Paige Whitney Babies Center, One East Oak Street, Basking Ridge, New Jersey 07920. For further information www.vanderplaat.com
      