
        ELLMAN--Alexander, M.D. 86, died June 10, 2004. Survived by his beloved wife of 60 years, Violet; son Jonathan Ellman, M.D., daughter-inlaw Tracy; grandsons David and Alexander; daughter Margery; sister Harriet Finkelstein, brother - in - law George Edwards, nephews Robert Millman, M.D., Howard Millman, M.D., Larry and David Finkelstein and Richard Ellman, nieces Brenda Cooperman and Enid Ellman and their children and grandchildren; and many loving cousins, friends and patients. Pre-deceased by son David. Ally served as a doctor in the Pacific during WW II where he met and married a beautiful nurse named Vi. He was a founding member of HIP of New York and maintained a practice in Brooklyn for over 50 years. Services Sunday, June 13, 11:45AM at The Riverside, 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.
        ELLMAN -- Dr. Alexander. The management and employees of HIP Health Plan of New York deeply regret the passing of Dr. Alexander Ellman, one of HIP's first physicians and later one of its first medical directors heading the Central Brooklyn Medical Group. Dr. Ellman was also a member of HIP's Board of Directors for many years. Through all the years of his dedicated association with HIP, Dr. Ellman gave unwavering loyalty to his patients and colleagues. Personally, he was generous and kind and could win you over and inspire confidence with a twinkle in his eye and a warm smile. In many ways, Dr. Ellman set professional and personal standards for others to follow. We will miss him and we express our deepest condolences to his family. Services will be held on Sunday, June 13th, at 11:45 AM, Riverside Chapels, 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Fruits may be sent to Harriet Finkelstein, Dr. Ellman's sister, at 419 Beach 136th St., Belle Harbor, NY 11694.
        ELLMAN--Alexander, M.D. For 77 years we shared our lives, joys and sorrows, finances and illnesses, family successes, etc. May you rest in peace. A prince among men. Condolences to the family. Jerry and Rita Kabat and family
        ELLMAN--Dr. Alexander. I lost a wonderful friend. We shared our lives for 77 years. My love to Vi. Artie Cohen
      