
        LAUTENBACH -- Terry R. Long time Darien, Conn., resident and retired IBM senior executive, Terry R. Lautenbach died Wednesday in Bedford Hills, NY. He was 65. He died of heart failure, according to his family. He was with his nephew, Marc Lautenbach, at the time of his death. Born August 10, 1938, in Cincinnati, Ohio, Mr. Lautenbach was the second son of the late Frances Herbert and Robert Charles Lautenbach. Mr. Lautenbach graduated from Xavier University in Cincinnati in 1959 and joined IBM that same year. Mr. Lautenbach and his wife, Carole, moved to Darien in 1974, where they raised their six daughters. He held a variety of senior executive positions while at IBM. When he retired in 1992, he was a senior vice president and a member of the four-person IBM Management Committee. He oversaw a large part of IBM's operations, including its U.S. sales force and its worldwide manufacturing and development. He held a number of marketing and management posts during his rise to become the youngest president of the data processing division in 1976. Afterward, he served in a series of senior positions in the United States and internationally, including chairman IBM Americas, Far East, and Group Executive Information Systems and Communication Group. Mr. Lautenbach left a strong legacy at IBM. Retired IBM Chairman and CEO, John Opel, said of Mr. Lautenbach ''Terry has an extremely bright and quick intellect matched with his sensitive good humor and energy that gave him the ability to be excellent in everything he pursued -- family, business, career and social and civic endeavors--every place he added value. We all wanted him on our team.'' Part of Mr. Lautenbach's legacy included contributions to the advancement of women and African Americans at IBM. Ted Childs, IBM vice president, said of Mr. Lautenbach, ''Terry was committed to all people and ensured that everyone has a fair chance. He hated intolerance and injustice and had a profound impact on my career and ability to do the work that I do at IBM.'' Mr. Lautenbach was also an active member of the Darien community, serving as president of the board of trustees of the Darien Library, Campaign Chairman for the Darien United Way, and on his church council. After retiring from IBM, Mr. Lautenbach moved to Sanibel, Fla., but continued to visit Darien frequently. Mr. Lautenbach remained active after his retirement, serving as a director on various corporate boards, including Varian Medical Systems, CVS, Footstar, Air Products, and Loomis Sayles. Mr. Lautenbach was also an avid golfer and a founding member and first president of the Sanctuary Golf Club in Sanibel, Fla. While known primarily as a leader in the business world, Mr. Lautenbach was most proud of his family, both immediate and extended. He was a beloved husband, father and grandfather known to his thirteen grandchildren as Poppop. He was at his happiest when surrounded by as many family members as possible. Mr. Lautenbach is survived by his wife of 44 years, Carole; his six daughters, Jennifer Streeter of Darien, Conn., Susan Bates, Julie Maxman, Martha Lautenbach, Mary Lautenbach, and Anne Stern of Atlanta, Ga.; three brothers, Ned Lautenbach, Dan Lautenbach, Jim Lautenbach and one sister, Cynthia Chappell. Mr. Lautenbach's oldest brother, Thom, is deceased. Mr. Lautenbach is also survived by his thirteen grandchildren and four godsons. A memorial service will be held at the Harvey - Englehardt - Metz Funeral Home, 1600 Colonial Boulevard, Fort Meyers, Fla., Sunday, June 6, 4-8 PM. The mass of Christian burial will be celebrated on Monday, June 7 at the Saint Isabel Catholic Church, 3559 Sanibel Captiva Road, Sanibel, Fla., at 1 PM. Private urnment will be at a later date. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Elder High School in Cincinnati, Ohio, The Lautenbach Scholarship Fund.
      