
        HOLZMAN--Philip S. With great sorrow and a deep sense of loss, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences mourns the passing of its Communications Secretary, Philip Holzman. The Esther and Sidney R. Rabb Professor at Harvard University and an innovative researcher on schizophrenia, Phil was widely recognized for the breadth of his accomplishments and his contributions to the field of serious mental illness. He instilled in his students the scientific curiosity and integrity that defined his career and he set a standard of excellence for them to follow. A beloved Fellow of the Academy for twenty-two years, he brought his far-ranging interests and insights to every aspect of its work, and his wise counsel to all who sought his guidance and advice. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Ann; to his family, and to all those who were fortunate to experience his wit and wisdom, his sensitivity, kindness, and generosity. Patricia Meyer Spacks President Leslie C. Berlowitz Executive Officer Louis W. Cabot, Vice President Emilio Bizzi, Secretary John S. Reed, Treasurer
        HOLZMAN--Philip. The National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression (NARSAD) mourns the death of its esteemed Scientific Council member, Philip S. Holzman, on June 1, 2004. Dr. Holzman, the Esther and Sidney R. Rabb Professor of Psychology Emeritus at Harvard University, was a key committee leader in the work of our Scientific Council in selecting and guiding leading scientists in psychiatric research. We extend our condolences to his beloved family; his wife Hannah Holzman, and his children, Natalie, Bernardoni, Carl Holzman, Paul Holzman and his three grandchildren. In his remarkable career as a pioneer in brain science and mental health, Dr. Holzman opened new horizons of hope for the mentally ill. Our Council and Board members, together with all who knew and admired him, mourn his loss. Herbert S. Pardes, MD President of the NARSAD Scientific Council Constance E. Lieber President of the NARSAD Board of Directors
      