
        TURETSKY--Rabbi Arnold S. Husband of Noemie, father of Justin, Jonathan, Daniel, David, father-in-law of Wendy, Andrea, Jill, grandfather of Laura, Zev, Dylan, Adin, brother of Eileen Weltz, Aviva Hoschander, nephew of Pearl Ganz, uncle and cousin of many. Renowned spiritual leader, teacher, loving friend and relative touched countless hearts, spirits and minds. Devoted teacher of Talmud and Torah; inspired young and old, locally and internationally, at J.T.S. and Jewish University of Budapest. Thrilled with strengthening and revitalizing Jewish communities in Europe and Israel as NGO representative for Synagogue Council to the U.N., founding Rabbi of Beit Praha in Prague, education department Israel Bonds. Rabbi of Temple Israel Center in White Plains, Jackson Heights, Jacksonville, Youngstown. Rabbi in Residence Cornell University. Chaplain U.S. Navy and Marines. Opening prayer for U.S. Congress 1961 introduced Hebrew into Congresional Record.
        TURETSKY--Rabbi Arnold. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of a champion of Israel who served for many years on the Executive Committee of its National Rabbinic Cabinet. We extend sincere condolences to his wife Noemie and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Joshua Matza President and CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Bobbie Goldstein Natl Campaign Chairman Rabbi Gary A. Glickstein Chairman National Rabbinic Cabinet Rabbi Yaacov Rone Natl Director, Synagogue and Rabbinic Activities
        TURETSKY--Rabbi Arnold. The Board of Directors of the Schechter Institute of Jewish Studies in Jerusalem mourns the loss of our colleague, friend and teacher, Rabbi Arnold Turetsky. His devoted and unflagging support for the University of Jewish Studies in Budapest and for Midreshet Yerushalayim in Israel was an invaluable source of strength. We send our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Noemie and to his family. Robert S. Rifkind, Chairman Board of Governors Prof. David Golinkin, Pres. Prof. Edith Frankel, Chair Midreshet Yerushalayim Raquel H. Flatow, U.S. National Executive Dir.
        TURETSKY--Rabbi Arnold. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi emeritus of Temple Israel of White Pl ains, NY who served as our secretary and treasurer and taught homiletics at the Jewish Theological Seminary. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.
        TURETSKY--Rabbi Arnold S. Died July 27, 2004. Husband of Noemie, father of Justin, Jo nathan, Daniel and David; father-in-law of Wendy, An drea and Jill; grandfather of Laura, Zev, Dylan and Adin; brother of Eileen Weltz and Aviva Hoschander. Funeral services were Wednesday.
        TURETSKY--Arnold. I will always be proud of my 60 years of friendship with you. Herb Behrens
      