
        STEIN--Marion, of Scarsdale, NY, age 83, died peacefully on June 30, 2004, after a long and courageous struggle with emphysema. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Stein; loving mother of Robert Stein (Mara Greenberg) and Ellen Lazarus (Howard Lazarus); adored grandmother of Andrew (Stephanie), David, Laura, Reyna and Bart; wonderful great-grandmother of Marissa Brooke. Loving sister of Jack Holtsberg (Elaine) and Josephine Woog (James), and the late Rosalie Mayer; sister-in-law of Morton Stein (Gloria) and the late Jerome Stein. Marion's warmth, strength, and her caring and concern for all she met were an inspiration to her family, friends, and community. Her love will live on forever. She will be sorely missed. Funeral services will be Thursday, July 1, at 1 PM, Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Avenue, White Plains, NY
        STEIN--Marion. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of The Jewish Home & Hospital Lifecare System deeply mourn the passing of the devoted Life Trustee and great benefactor of our Westchester facilty, Sarah Neuman. A dedicated volunteer, she served with grace and dignity. A visionary philanthropist with her beloved late husband Bernard, she supported significant capital projects and has an endowed annual lecture on Alzheimer's Disease named in her honor. We extend our sincerest sympathies to her children Ellen and Howard Lazarus and Robert and Mara Stein, her grandchildren Andrew and Stephanie Lazarus, David Lazarus, Laura Lazarus, Bart Stein and Reina Stein, great grandchild and other family members. She will be missed by all. Fred M. Lowenfels, Chairman of the Board William A. Blumstein, Chair, Sarah Neuman Audrey S. Weiner, President & CEO Rita Morgan, Administrator, Sarah Neuman
        STEIN -- Marion. Purchase College and the Purchase College Foundation mourn the passing of our beloved friend and major benefactor, whose lifelong enthusiasm for education, endeared her to the College's faculty and students. She joined the Foundation Board in 1999. Her keen intellect motivated her to take many classes in history, literature, and Asian studies. Mrs. Stein was a founding member of the President's Club and the Friends of Humanities. She also supported the Neuberger Museum of Art and the Conservatory of Dance. The Bernard and Marion Stein Scholarship Fund, which she founded with her late husband Bernard, has benefited generations of students. We will miss her insightfulness, enthusiasm and passion for learning. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the family of Marion Stein. Thomas J. Schwarz President Purchase College Emily Grant, Chair Purchase College Foundation
        STEIN--Marion. The Board of Directors and Staff of the JCC of Mid-Westchester mourn the loss of Marion Stein, mother of former Chairman of the Board and President, Ellen Lazarus. Marion and her late husband Bernie were long time supporters and generous benefactors. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to the entire family.
        STEIN--Marion. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member Marion Stein and extend sincere condolences to her family. Alex C. Solowey, President
      