
        BUXTON--Anne Taylor. 87, passed away peacefully at her home Friday, July 2, 2004. Born in Rochester, New York, she was the eldest of Earl Burt Taylor's and Judith Ogden Taylor's four daughters. Mrs. Buxton received her early education in Le Roy, New York, where her father was the Superintendant of Schools for 11 years. The Taylor family returned to Rochester when Mr. Taylor became Dean of the Extension School and head of the Education Department at the University of Rochester. Mrs. Buxton attended the University of Rochester majoring in French. After her graduation in 1939, Mrs. Buxton was hired to teach French in Bath, New York. She resigned from that job in 1942 to marry the love of her life, William Perrin Buxton, whom she had met at the University of Rochester. Mr. Buxton was serving in the army in Georgia and the couple wed in Savannah. When Mr. Buxton's tour of duty ended, the couple lived in New York State, Illinois, and Washington, DC, before settling with their, by then, four children in Connecticut in 1953. Mr. Buxton was employed by The New Yorker Magazine, retiring in 1980 as Vice President and Director of Advertising. Mrs. Buxton returned to public school teaching in Connecticut when her own children were school age. From 1957 until 1969 Mrs. Buxton held full and part-time teaching positions in both Fairfield and Stratford while continuing to devote herself to caring for her children and husband. Mrs. Buxton's loss of Mr. Buxton on March 16 of this year was very hard for her to bear. She is survived by her loving children, Sally Buxton of Phoenix, Arizona, Jeffrey Taylor Buxton and his wife Janelle Pote Buxton of Yardley, Pennsylvania, Lucy Buxton of Bel Air, Maryland, Mary Perrin Buxton of Haverford, Pennsylvania and by her granddaughter, Katherine Taylor Buxton of Haverford, Pennsylvania. In accordance with Mrs. Buxton's wishes, services will be private. For information contact the Redgate-Hennessy Funeral Home, 4 Gorham Pl., Trumbull, CT 06611. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the Americares Foundation, 88 Hamilton Avenue, Stamford, CT 06902 and to the University of Rochester, Rochester, New York.
      