
        KING--Susan Bennett, a former chair of the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission whose leadership career in government, the private sector and education spanned four decades, died of cancer on July 22, 2004 in Hillsborough, N.C. She was 64. She was born April 29, 1940, in Sioux City, Iowa, to Francis M. Bennett and Marjorie Bennett Sillin, and was raised in Atlanta, Ga. She graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1962 from Duke University, where she received a B.A. degree in political science. Inspired by President John F. Kennedy's call to public service, Ms. King's first jobs were in Washington, D.C., as a legislative assistant for the United States Courts and later for U.S. Sen. Thomas J. Dodd of Connecticut. In 1967, she became Washington director of the National Committee for an Effective Congress. In 1973, she was named executive director of the Center for Public Financing of Elections, and in 1975 she served as the executive assistant to the chairman of the Federal Election Commission. In March 1978, President Jimmy Carter appointed Ms. King commissioner of the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission, and within the year Carter appointed her chairman of the Commission. After leaving the Commission in 1981 following President Ronald Reagan's election, she became a fellow-inresidence at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, before starting her career in the private sector. In 1982, she joined Corning Glass Works, Corning, N.Y., as the director of consumer affairs. She was named director of corporate communications and consumer affairs in 1983, was promoted to vice president in 1984, and became president of Corning's prestigious operating unit, Steuben Glass in New York City, in 1986. In 1992, she returned to Corning, N.Y., as a senior vice president, corporate affairs, of Corning, Incorporated, and remained in that position until she retired in May 1994. Ms. King was active throughout her career in the affairs of her alma mater and returned to Duke following her retirement from Corning. She served as a university trustee for 14 years. She also served as the leader-in-residence of the Hart Leadership Program in Duke's Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy and was a member of the Sanford Institute Board of Visitors, which she chaired for three years. She also was chairman of The Leadership Initiative, a support corporation established by Duke to strengthen undergraduate leadership programs. In 2001, she received the Duke University Medal for Distinguished Meritorious Service, the school's highest honor. Among other professional activities, Ms. King was a member of the board of directors of The Coca-Cola Company, and of Guidant Corporation, a company that designs and develops cardiovascular medical products. She was a director of Triangle Community Foundation and Chairman of the Board of MDC, Inc. (Chapel Hill, N.C.), a private, nonprofit organization whose mission is to advance the South through strategies that expand opportunity, reduce poverty and build inclusive communities. She also was a trustee of the Eurasia Foundation, a privately managed organization dedicated to funding programs that build democratic and free market institutions in the former Soviet Union. Ms. King was a charter trustee and vice chair of the National Public Radio Foundation. In 2003, NPR named the boardroom at its Washington, D.C., headquarters the Susan Bennett King Board Room in recognition of her years of leadership and service to public radio. Her cremated remains will be buried next to her parents at a graveside service for family and friends at Arlington Memorial Park, Atlanta, at 10:30 a.m. on Tuesday, July 27, 2004. Funeral arrangements are under the direction of H.M. Patterson & Son, 1020 Spring Street, Atlanta, Ga. 30309, 404-876-1022. A memorial service will be held on October 7, 2004 at the Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy, Duke University. King is survived by her husband, Stephen P. Glantz of Hillsborough, N.C.; her brother, Bruce R. Bennett of Atlanta, Ga.; stepdaughters Karynn Needel of Marblehead, Mass., and Gayle Sebastian of Coral Springs, Fla.; nephew David R. Bennett of Marietta, Ga..; nieces Molly B. Bennett of Charleston, S.C., and Christine B. Gartland of Austin, Tx. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that contributions be made to the NPR Foundation and mailed to The NPR Foundation, Susan B. King Memorial Fund, 635 Massachusetts Ave. NW, Washington, D.C., 20001-3753; or to MDC, Inc., P.O. Box 17268, Chapel Hill, N.C., 27516-7268.
      