
        HOFHEIMER -- Natalie Doernberg. Beloved wife of Joseph, devoted mother of Judy and Larry Wiesen, Jean and Jim Bennett, Joanne and Paul Egerman, Jim and Teresa Hofheimer and Josie and Jerry Funchess. Adored grandmother to twelve grandchildren. Loving sister of Dudley Doernberg Jr., Margery Bruno and the late Beatrice Hecht. Funeral service at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale at 10 AM Thursday, July 29. The family will receive visitors Friday, July 30, 2-5 PM and Saturday July 31, 2-5 PM. In lieu of flowers please make donations to White Plains Hospital Center, Davis Avenue at East Post Road, White Plains NY 10601.
        HOFHEIMER--Natalie. The Board of Directors, management, staff and volunteers of White Plains Hospital Center mourn with extreme sorrow the passing of our dear friend, Board member, and dedicated volunteer, Natalie Hofheimer. Natalie played a major role as a volunteer at the Hospital from 1961 through 2004. Many will remember her kindness in the Hospital Coffee Shop, where she dedicated many hours of service for 43 years. She also served as president of the Scarsdale Auxiliary, and upon completion of her term, was elected to the Honorary Board of Directors of the Hospital. Natalie, along with her husband Joe, was a loyal and dedicated philanthropist and was deeply committed to the Hospital mission. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Joe, her children, and her grandchildren. Robert Feder, Chairman of the Board of Directors Jon B. Schandler, President and CEO
        HOFHEIMER--Natalie. The Trustees, Administration and Staff of Blythedale Children's Hospital are saddened to learn of the passing of Natalie, beloved wife of our dear friend, Trustee and former Chair of the Board, Joseph Hofheimer. Natalie was a loving wife, mother, and grandmother. In her relationships with her friends, Natalie was always caring, compassionate and gracious. She was a wonderful and generous woman in every sense of the word. We will miss her, and extend our heartfelt condolences to Joe, their children, and their entire family. Laurence W. Cohen Chair, Board of Trustees Larry Levine, PResident & CEO
      