
        ECKEL--John W.J., On Tuesday, July 20, 2004, John W.J. Eckel, formerly of Haworth, NJ, 90, passed away at Reeds Landing in Springfield, MA. Born in Jersey City, NJ on October 1, 1913, he was the son of the late John W. and Mary (Ficke) Eckel. As a lifelong resident of New Jersey, he was a graduate of Dickenson Evening High School and a graduate of St. Peter's College. Mr. Eckel proudly served our country in the Army in Europe during World War II, and was an active member of the American Legion Post 13 in Haworth, NJ. He was employed for 45 years at B. Altman & Co. in NYC and retired as a merchandise manager in 1981. He traveled extensively as a buyer for Altman's throughout Europe and the Far East for many years. He was employed for Bardwil Industries in NYC for 10 years. Mr. Eckel was a parishioner of Sacred Heart Church in Haworth for 45 years. He was a member of the Tennis Committee in Haworth and a member of Home Textiles Association. Besides his parents, he was predeceased by his son, Richard A. Eckel 1998, a daughter, Diane P. Eckel in 2000, and a sister, Madeline Merton. He is survived by his wife Catherine D. (Hill) Eckel of Springfield, formerly of Haworth, NJ, three sons, John W. Eckel and his wife Catherine Ruth of Simsbury, CT; Charles T. Eckel and his wife Lynda of Galloway, NJ; and Kenneth J. Eckel and his wife Virginia of Dallas, TX; one daughter, Catherine A. Martel and her husband Robert of Harrisville, NH; one daughter-inlaw, Catherine A. Eckel of Florida; one brother, Eugene Eckel and his wife Darlene of Summit, NJ; ten grandchildren, Christian, Ryan, Isaac, Theodore, Lauren, Beth, Emily, Melissa and Catrina Eckel and April Martel. Mr. Eckel's funeral will be held on Friday at 9:30am from the Barrett Funeral Home, 148 Dean Drive, Tenafly, NJ, followed by a Liturgy of Christian Burial at Sacred Heart Church at 10:30am. Rites of Committal will follow at George Washington Memorial Park Cemetery in New Jersey. Calling hours will be held on Thursday from 7-9pm at the funeral home. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to Tomorrow's Children Hackensack Hospital, 30 Prospect Ave., Hackensack NJ 07601.
      