
        EISENBERG -- Richard P., died on July 12 of gastric cancer at the age of 60. He was the most beloved husband of Ruth, adored father of Erika and Jessica, and father-in-law of Ben, ''uncle-fun Richie'' to all of his nieces and nephews, cherished brother-in-law of Josh, Brooks, Marilyn, Ralph, Sol, and Yaffa, and best friend to many. No one loved life as much as he did or fought harder for it. Those who knew him were lucky to benefit from his kindness, intelligence, and humor. He had the unique ability to see and appreciate the best qualities in each person he knew. He brought us endless love, joy, fun, and hope. He will be deeply missed. Funeral Thursday, 10AM, ''The Riverside,'' 76th and Amsterdam. For those desiring, donations can be made to the Richard P. Eisenberg fund for gastric cancer research, NYU Medical Center, office of development, 1 Park Ave. 9th flr, NYC 10016 (attn: Omayra Velez).
        EISENBERG--Richard. Richard, you had legions of friends who will miss you terribly. Jill and I were fortunate to be among them. You were so much fun...enthusiastically sharing your interests in golf, movies, opera, books, crossword puzzles, politics, travel or your red MGA. You left us all wanting more of you. We will always remember your devotion to Ruth, Jessica, Ben, Erika and Charles and their constant delight as you entertained them and us with your wonderful stories and unique observations about life. Golf will never be the same without you. We love you and you will be in our hearts forever. Jill and Ken
        EISENBERG--Richard P. The Board of Trustees, management and staff of The Jewish Home & Hospital Lifecare System mourn the passing of our devoted friend and loving husband of our past Trustee, Ruth Brand Eisenberg, who served with distinction on both our Bronx and Lifecare Community Services Boards. We extend our sincerest sympathies to his beloved Ruth, and children, Erika, and Jessica and Ben. Fred M. Lowenfels, Chairman of the Board Audrey S. Weiner, President & CEO
        EISENBERG--Richard. The Board of Governors and members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime beloved friend and esteemed member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Charles Roden, President
        EISENBERG--Richard. His struggle is over and with it, our journey together. Our family's great, good friend has gone and we cannot yet know the enormity his loss will bring to our lives. David and Denise Levine Michael and Aly Levine Joanna and Gregg Nadel
      