
        DEBLASIO--Michael Peter of Rye, NY and North Palm Beach, FL died of colon cancer on Wednesday, June 30th, 2004 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in NY. He was born in Brooklyn, NY on January 13, 1937. Michael was the former Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of the Loral Corporation for whom he worked for 29 years. He was a Certified Public Accountant and served on the Board of Trustees for St. Francis College (his alma mater) as well as being a Trustee for Dickinson College, Our Lady of Mercy Hospital, and the NY Philharmonia Virtuosi. He was the beloved husband of Kathleen Elizabeth O'Reilly and the devoted father of Deirdre-Noel and her husband Todd Engels of Rye, NY. The proud grandfather of Jamison Michael and Amanda Kaitlin and the beloved brother of Ann and Constantine Clemente. He will be remembered for his love of family, his many friends, his generous heart, and the happiness that he brought to all who knew him. Family will receive friends on Tuesday, July 6th, 2004 from 2-4PM and 7-9PM at the Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Boston Post Road, Rye, NY. Funeral Mass is 10AM on Wednesday, July 7th, 2004 at Church of the Resurrection, 910 Boston Post Road, Rye, NY. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Pump Research Fellowship Fund, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021 or St. Francis College, 180 Remsen Street, Brooklyn Heights, New York.
        DeBLASIO--Michael P. The employees of Loral Space & Communications express their sorrow at the death of their beloved colleague and friend, Michael DeBlasio. In his nearly thirty years at Loral as our senior financial executive, Michael was a compelling and significant participant in the collaborative management of Loral, capping his career with us in 2002 as first senior vice president. He was tireless, loyal, generous and funny. We join Michael's family in mourning the loss of our friend. We will miss him. Bernard L. Schwartz, Chairman and the emploloyees of Loral
        DeBLASIO--Michael P. On the sad occasion of the passing of our dear colleague and friend, the Board of Directors and staff of Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center extend their deepest sympathies to the family of Michael P. DeBlasio, a member of the Our Lady of Mercy Board of Directors since 1995. We are thankful for his many gifts to us and wish him the Lord's eternal peace. Our Lady of Mercy Board of Directors
      