
        HOFHEIMER -- Natalie Doernberg. Beloved wife of Joseph, devoted mother of Judy and Larry Wiesen, Jean and Jim Bennett, Joanne and Paul Egerman, Jim and Teresa Hofheimer and Josie and Jerry Funchess. Adored grandmother to twelve grandchildren. Loving sister of Dudley Doernberg Jr., Margery Bruno and the late Beatrice Hecht. Funeral service at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale at 10 AM Thursday, July 29. The family will receive visitors Friday, July 30, 2-5 PM and Saturday July 31, 2-5 PM. In lieu of flowers please make donations to White Plains Hospital Center, Davis Avenue at East Post Road, White Plains NY 10601.
        HOFHEIMER--Natalie. The Trustees, Administration and Staff of Blythedale Children's Hospital are saddened to learn of the passing of Natalie, beloved wife of our dear friend, Trustee and former Chair of the Board, Joseph Hofheimer. Natalie was a loving wife, mother, and grandmother. In her relationships with her friends, Natalie was always caring, compassionate and gracious. She was a wonderful and generous woman in every sense of the word. We will miss her, and extend our heartfelt condolences to Joe, their children, and their entire family. Laurence W. Cohen Chair, Board of Trustees Larry Levine, PResident & CEO
        HOFHEIMER--Natalie. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Natalie Hofheimer, beloved wife of Joseph Hofheimer, whose devoted leadership as trustee of Blythedale Children's Hospital has strengthened the New York Jewish community. We extend our deepest sympathies to Joseph; to their children and grandchildren; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        HOFHEIMER--Natalie. Past President of the Scarsdale Auxiliary committed to serving the work of the Auxiliary for the benefit of White plains Hospital Center. She worked tirelessly at the coffee shop of the hospital that is now named ''Natalie's Place'' in her honor. Her leadership and insight will be sorely missed.
      