
        OSTER--Abe. It is with deep sadness that the Board and staff of the JCC on the Palisades mourn the loss of Abe Oster, a great friend and humanitarian, who devoted his life to making a meaningful difference in the lives of others. A son of Holocaust survivors, Abe made a lifelong commitment to fostering Jewish continuity and preserving spiritual sustenance. A generous benefactor, he was involved in the JCC since its founding. He and his wife Ann, also the child of Holocaust survivors, embraced a shared mission--to ensure that the tragedy of the Holocaust would never be forgotten or repeated--and created the Community Holocaust Memorial at the JCC; a garden of remembrance, Gan Hazikaron, which they named in memory of Abe's two siblings who perished in the Shoah. We can be assured that his legacy will continue to inspire future generations and we will honor his memory and the indelible mark he has left on all our lives. We send our sincerest condolences to his wife, Ann, and their children, Avi and Jane. May you be comforted amongst all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Daniel Rubin, President Avi Lewinson Executive Director JCC on the Palisades
        OSTER--Abe. The Officers, Trustees and staff of UJA Federation of Northern New Jersey notes with great sadness the passing of Abe Oster, our greatly respected Trustee, long time generous supporter and dear friend. We will always remember his deep commitment to our Jewish community and Tikkun Olam-building a better world for all mankind. Our sincerest condolences are extended to his wife, Ann, his children Jane and Avi, and the entire Oster family. Dr. Leonard Cole, Pres Howard E. Charish, Exec VP
        OSTER--Abe. To Ann, Avi and Jane, the world has lost a unique and beautiful person. His kindness, generosity, wisdom, thoughtfulness and intelligence have impacted each of us. He is with us every day wherever we go. We will cherish the times we shared and wish there were more of them. Our thoughts and prayers are with you. Our love and friendship is eternal. We will always be here for you. Kellie, Paul, Ali and Andrew
        OSTER--Abe. We mourn the loss of Abe Oster and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Ann, his children Avi and Jane, and his entire family. Abe will be missed by everyone who had the privilege of knowing him. Peter, Mary, Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow
        OSTER--Abe. The Board of Trustees of Englewood Hospital and Medical Center acknowledges with sadness the passing of Abe Oster on July 14, 2004 and extends sincere condolences to his family. May he rest in peace.
      