
        KATZ--Gerald. It is with the deepest of sorrow that we mourn the passing of Gerald Katz at the age of 66 years. Getty was a very special and unique human being, who was loved and admired by everyone who he encountered in life. Getty's most important priority was first and foremost his family and friends. Those who knew him will remember him as a modest, unpretentious individual who was always there for anyone needing his help and support. His love for his wife, children and grandchildren was contagious and whether it was playing at ''Grandpa's Farm'' or watching his most precious Giants, they were always there with him. Getty was a graduate of M.I.T. with a B.S. and M.S. in Chemical Engineering, and received his M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School. A very successful businessman, he spent his entire career in the chemical industry. After 35+ years with Witco Chemical Corp., he retired as a Senior Vice President, working in operations, corporate development and mergers and acquisitions. He then went on to a consulting career, working with among others Goldman Sachs. He served as a mentor and friend to countless individuals who crossed his path in both business and life. Getty was highly respected for his intelligence, integrity and ''can do'' attitude. He leaves his beloved wife Annbeth, children Jill and Philip Wolf, Debra and David Horowitz and the joy of his life his grandchildren, Austin and Skyler Wolf, Laurence and Andie Horowitz, his sister Mindy Katz and nieces and nephews. Funeral services will be held on Monday at 9:30 am, at ''Gutterman-Musicant'', Hackensack, NJ. It would be greatly appreciated if all donations in Getty's memory be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC), c/o of the Getty Katz Family Foundation for Cancer Research, 38 Athens Rd, Short Hills, NJ 07078.
        KATZ--Jerry. A beloved friend... An example how to live one's life--filled with warmth, kindness, intel ligence, great pride in family and devotion to friends. You will be in our hearts and memories forever. The Zuckermans
      