
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The Boards, Physicians, Faculty, and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Cornell Medical College are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and benefactor Laurance Rockefeller. As a passionate conservationist, investor, and philanthropist, Mr. Rockefeller made unique contributions that have left a lasting impact on the environment, medicine, and business. Mr. Rockefeller joined the Board of Governors of The New York Hospital in 1963, was named Life Governor in 1975, and became a Life Trustee of New YorkPresbyterian Hospital in 1998. He also served on the Board of Overseers of Weill Cornell Medical College from 1981 to 1982. He brought his keen intellect and uncommon skills to bear in contributing to the Hospital's commitment to providing the highest quality patient care-supporting the AIDS Care Center-and to the Medical College's education and research mission-supporting the establishment of the Lewis Thomas Professorship, among other contributions. He leaves a lasting legacy of stewardship and benevolence. We will miss his wisdom and his friendship, and we join with all those who knew him in mourning his loss. Our deepest condolences are extended to the entire Rockefeller family. John Mack, Chairman Board of Trustees Dr. Herbert Pardes President and CEO NY-Presbyterian Hospital Sanford I. Weill, Chairman Board of Overseers Dr. Antonio M. Gotto, Dean Weill Cornell Medical College
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The faculty and staff of the Zena and Michael A. Wiener Cardiovascular Institute and the Marie-Josee and Henry R. Kravis Center for Cadiovascular Health at The Mount Sinai Medical Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Laurance S. Rockefeller, a trusted friend and advisor who made significant contributions to the advancement of cardiovascular research and patient care. As a member of the Institute's Advisory Board, he shared our deep commitment to improving the lives of those suffering from cardiovascular disease. We extend our sincere condolences to his children, and the entire Rockefeller family.
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The Board of Governors of the New York College of Osteopathic Medicine of NYIT and the entire NYCOM community mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and benefactor, Laurance S. Rockefeller. Mr. Laurance had been a fervent supporter of our profession. He was a critical force in enabling our school to come into being from its inception and in its evolving into the largest institution of osteopathic education worldwide. His commitment and compassion will be sorely missed. We extend our condolences to his family and colleagues. G. Bruce Leib, Chairman Brian J. Waldron, D.O., Secy
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The patients and staff of the Center for Special Studies of New York Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of Laurance S. Rockefeller. His encouragement and support for healthcare programs featuring a unified approach to the needs of the body, mind and spirit will be one of his many legacies. We will miss our thoughtful, kind and dear friend. Jonathan Jacobs Executive Director Samuel Merrick Medical Director
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The board, staff and members of the YWCA of the City of New York greatly mourn the passing of our friend and benefactor Laurance S. Rockefeller. We honor his spirit and compassion, demonstrated by his life-long commitment to our organization and its mission to empower women and girls. We extend our deep sympathies to his entire family. Rennie Roberts, Exec. Dir. Grace Richardson, President
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The trustees and staff of Common Good mourn the death of Laurance Rockefeller, whose beneficial influence extended far beyond his generosity. His judgments about new ventures, whether for profit or for social good, provided a seal of worthiness that helped propel countless worthwhile projects towards success. Philip K. Howard Chair, Common Good
      