
        RAFKIND--Toni. On July 8, 2004. Beloved wife of Arthur. Devoted mother of David, Nicholas and Buddy. Dear sister of Sheldon Kronen and sisterin-law of Arlene Kronen, Sheila Rafkind and Murray Dorfman. Loving aunt of Stephanie and Gary Kronen, Steven Rafkind, Randy Dorfman, Gary Dorfman and Stacie Dorfman. Daughter of the late Jules and Mona Kronenberg, daughter-in-law of the late George and Dorothy Rafkind. Sister-in-law of the late Arlene Dorfman and Stuart B. Rafkind. Services Sunday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Variety The Childrens Charity, 350 5th Avenue, Suite 1234 New York, New York 10118.
        RAFKIND--Toni. The entire Shopkorn family mourns the loss of our Aunt Toni. Her friendship, understanding, warmth, outlook, grace and charm will be sorely missed and cannot be replaced. We feel so lucky that she was a part of our lives. We are all better off for it. Her memory is deeply burnt in our hearts and minds. She will be with us always. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Arthur, David and Nicholas. We will be there for you. Sue, Ed, Dani, Niki, Amy, Kate, Eric, Hayim, Alex, Jack, Julia and Cooper
        RAFKIND--Toni. Variety-The Children's Charity extends heartfelt sympathy to our highly valued, long-standing Board member Arthur Rafkind, and his family, on the untimely passing of his beloved wife Toni. Bruce Morrow, President Frederick M. Friedman Chairman Emeritus Leni Anders Executive Director
        RAFKIND--Toni. A woman of grace and dignity, humor and love, inner and outer beauty who was always there for our family. She made such a difference in our lives. We cherish her memory. Linda, David, Rachel and Ali
        RAFKIND--Toni. A woman of valor who will be missed dearly. Your friendship, warmth and love of family were an inspiration for all who knew you. Howard and Jeanette Lasher
        RAFKIND--Toni. Toni, you touched so many lives, you will be missed. Our heartfelt sympathy to Art, David and Nick. The Buracks and the Marinos
        RAFKIND--Toni. You were the love and life of all around you, especially Art, David, and Nick. We will all miss you. The Rosner & Tager families
        RAFKIND--Toni. To my darling wife, Toni, of forty years. I love you forever. Love, Arthur
      