
        RAFKIND--Toni. The entire Shopkorn family mourns the loss of our Aunt Toni. Her friendship, understanding, warmth, outlook, grace and charm will be sorely missed and cannot be replaced. We feel so lucky that she was a part of our lives. We are all better off for it. Her memory is deeply burnt in our hearts and minds. She will be with us always. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Arthur, David and Nicholas. We will be there for you. Sue, Ed, Dani, Niki, Amy, Kate, Eric, Hayim, Alex, Jack, Julia and Cooper
        RAFKIND--Toni. Variety-The Children's Charity extends heartfelt sympathy to our highly valued, long-standing Board member Arthur Rafkind, and his family, on the untimely passing of his beloved wife Toni. Bruce Morrow, President Frederick M. Friedman Chairman Emeritus Leni Anders Executive Director
        RAFKIND--Toni. Who could ask for a better friend. We will miss you. You will always be in our hearts forever. We salute your love and devotion to Arthur, David, Nicky, and Buddy and your commitment to Variety the Children's Charity and Forward Face. Herb, Martha, and Ashleigh
        RAFKIND--Toni. The Board of Directors of Forward Face extends their heartfelt sympathy to Mr. Arthur Rafkind and his family. The children and families of our organization were truly blessed by Toni's warm smile & generosity.
        RAFKIND--Toni. A woman of grace and dignity, humor and love, inner and outer beauty who was always there for our family. She made such a difference in our lives. We cherish her memory. Linda, David, Rachel and Ali
        RAFKIND--Toni. A true woman of substance; she loved with depth, she guided with wisdom, and she supported with strength. She was the glue that held all she loved so tightly bound. For 37 years we shared family and friends and we are so thankful to have had the gift of Toni. Sue, Freddy, Andrea, Stephanie and David
        RAFKIND -- Toni. Tonette, You listened, you shared, you respected, you appreciated, you honored, you laughed, you cried--and you played golf with me. What more could anyone ask of a friend. With my deepest love, Sue
      