
        MILLER--James ''Jimmy'' F. Was many things in life: stockbroker, Fortune 500 CEO, financier, philanthropist, insatiable reader, conversationalist and a devotee of fine arts of all descriptions...a true Renaissance man. Mr. Miller died June 3, 2004 in Portland, OR at the age of 99. Born in 1905 and raised in Oregon, James Miller began working as an office boy at Blyth & Co. (predecessor to PaineWebber/UBS Financial Services) in Portland. Ultimately rising to President of Blyth & Co. in the 1960's, his skills at research, a photographic memory and a head for numbers propelled him to the top of one of Wall Street's leading investment banks. His passion for education as seen in his philanthropic support for both scholarships and buildings in part arose from his life-long regret at not being able to complete his own formal education. Investing was Mr. Miller's forte and in his 82-year career he made himself wealthy doing so. In an era of great corporate growth in America, he distinguished himself and his firm by doing some of the most creative financing in his time. Among the many corporations he served as either director or financier were Albermarle Paper Ethyl Corp., Fiberboard Corp., Georgia Pacific, Morse Shoe, Dant & Russell, Maine Central Railroad, Louisiana Pacific and Willamette Industries. Mr. Miller's success as an investor was based upon buying good companies and holding onto them, some for literally decades. Well into his 90's he could list more than 100 companies in which he was invested, describe their worth and current activities. Early on, Mr. Miller also turned his passion for learning away from business to languages, history, literature, art, ballet, music and education. Beginning in the 1940's, he and his wife Marion supported scores of worthy institutions literally throughout the country. He served on the boards or gave generously to the New York Metropolitan Opera, Metropolitan Museum of Art and New York City Library. Both as a New Yorker and after returning to Oregon, Mr. Miller also generously supported many educational and arts organizations. Later in life, Mr. Miller expressed pride that he was not a ''first class tightwad'' and that ''the art and culture of society must be saved for its heirs''. Mr. Miller's philanthropy will be continued through his foundation benefiting the arts and education in Oregon. It was his hope this legacy would serve as an example to mankind as to what was possible given commitment, hard work, and a gift of time. Preceding Mr. Miller in death was his wife of nearly 68 years, Marion, and their daughter, Jacqueline, who passed away early this year. Survivers include two granddaughters, O'Shaughnassy Rice of Portland, and Hillary Dawn Rice of Montana and a new great-grandchild. Also surviving Miller are several nieces, nephews and related family members. Private family services have been held and a celebration of his life was held at the Oregon Historical Society.
      