
        RAFKIND--Toni. On July 8, 2004. Beloved wife of Arthur. Devoted mother of David, Nicholas and Buddy. Dear sister of Sheldon Kronen and sisterin-law of Arlene Kronen, Sheila Rafkind and Murray Dorfman. Loving aunt of Stephanie and Gary Kronen, Steven Rafkind, Randy Dorfman, Gary Dorfman and Stacie Dorfman. Daughter of the late Jules and Mona Kronenberg, daughter-in-law of the late George and Dorothy Rafkind. Sister-in-law of the late Arlene Dorfman and Stuart B. Rafkind. Services Sunday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Variety The Childrens Charity, 350 5th Avenue, Suite 1234 New York, New York 10118.
        RAFKIND--Toni. The entire Shopkorn family mourns the loss of our Aunt Toni. Her friendship, understanding, warmth, outlook, grace and charm will be sorely missed and cannot be replaced. We feel so lucky that she was a part of our lives. We are all better off for it. Her memory is deeply burnt in our hearts and minds. She will be with us always. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to Arthur, David and Nicholas. We will be there for you. Sue, Ed, Dani, Niki, Amy, Kate, Eric, Hayim, Alex, Jack, Julia and Cooper
        RAFKIND--Toni. Variety-The Children's Charity extends heartfelt sympathy to our highly valued, long-standing Board member Arthur Rafkind, and his family, on the untimely passing of his beloved wife Toni. Bruce Morrow, President Frederick M. Friedman Chairman Emeritus Leni Anders Executive Director
        RAFKIND--Toni. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, Toni Rafkind. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband and member, Arthur, and to her entire family. Paul Levy, President Monty Davis, Secretary
        RAFKIND--Toni. Our dear cherished friend, we are thankful for all of the wonderful memories of the times we shared together throughout so many years. You will live in our hearts forever. Joan & Steven, Felicia & Greg, Hillary & Adam
        RAFKIND--Toni. Our deepest condolences to Artie, David and Nicky. We will all miss our special friend. Peter, Rita, Eric and Adam
        RAFKIND--Toni. To my darling wife, Toni, of forty years. I love you forever. Love, Arthur
        RAFKIND--Toni. A true woman of substance; she loved with depth, she guided with wisdom, and she supported with strength. She was the glue that held all she loved so tightly bound. For 37 years we shared family and friends and we are so thankful to have had the gift of Toni. Sue, Freddy, Andrea, Stephanie and David
        RAFKIND -- Toni. Tonette, You listened, you shared, you respected, you appreciated, you honored, you laughed, you cried--and you played golf with me. What more could anyone ask of a friend. With my deepest love, Sue
      