
        MARTINI--Nael, M.D. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center express their sincere sorrow at the death of their friend and colleague, Nael Martini. Dr. Martini was an extraordinary physician and teacher. He was born in Aleppo, Syria, where he attended college; he received his MD from the American University of Beirut in Lebanon and after completing his residency in Chicago, he returned to Aleppo to practice for a number of years before returning to the U.S. He joined the Thoracic Service of Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases in 1968. From 1975 to 1990, he served as Chief of the Thoracic Service, Department of Surgery. From 1970 to 1978, Dr. Martini was Director of Surgical Education. His clinical expertise centered on the treatment of lung cancer and the early diagnosis of this disease. Generations of physicians and patients have been touched by his leadership in patient care, clinical research, and surgical education. His eminent career at Memorial Sloan-Kettering will be long remembered by staff and patients. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Laurance S. Rockefeller Honorary Co-Chairman James D. Robinson III Honorary Co-Chairman Douglas A. Warner III Chairman Richard I. Beattie Vice Chairman Louis V. Gerstner, Jr. Vice Chairman Harold Varmus, M.D. President Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        MARTINI--Nael, M.D. With heavy heart, the staff of the Department of Surgery at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center notes with sorrow the death of their longtime colleague, teacher and friend, Nael Martini. Dr. Martini's distinguished career at Memorial Sloan - Kettering was characterized by dedication, compassion, enthusiasm and perseverance. Dr. Martini, who was born in Aleppo, Syria, attended Aleppo College and received his MD from the American University of Beirut in Lebanon. He completed his residency at St. Luke's Hospital in Chicago before returning to Syria to practice in his home city for five years. In 1968, Dr. Martini joined the staff of MemorialSloan Kettering. In 1975, he was appointed Chief of the Thoracic Service in the Department of Surgery, a position that he held for over 15 years. During his tenure, he held many teaching positions, including Director of Surgical Education. His legacies to medicine are his innovations in treatment modalities that continue to prolong the lives of lung cancer patients and the hundreds of young physicians who learned their art and science from him. He will be greatly missed. We extend our sincerest condolences to his family who can be justly proud of his accomplishments. Murray F. Brennan, M.D. Chairman, and Staff, Department of Surgery Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
      