
        HIRSCHBERG--Ruth Burchard: We are deeply grieved to record the passing of our beloved Ruth Hirschberg, daughter of the late Otto and Hedda Burchard, wife of our dear Senior Rabbi of blessed memory, Gunter Hirschberg. Born and educated in Germany, Ruth immigrated to Australia via England in 1939, escaping the Holocaust. She married Cantor Gunter Hirschberg in 1944 and they came to the US in 1948. Ruth came to New York in 1952 when her husband was elected Cantor of Congregation Rodeph Sholom and became our devoted Rebettzin in 1963 when Cantor Hirschberg became Rabbi Hirschberg. She held this title proudly, in addition to her highly successful professional life in the lingerie industry from which she retired in the 1980's. In 1976 she was cited by Cosmopolitan Magazine as ''one of 36 women with real power,'' representing the first woman executive in apparel manufacturing. We will miss Ruth's indomitable energy and irrepressible commitment to the Congregation, its clergy, its programs, its schools. She took particular pride in the Rabbi Gunter Hirschberg Elementary Division of the Rodeph Sholom School, named for her beloved partner of 45 years. She was also steadfastly dedicated to the Union of Reform Judaism and its affiliated institutions, including the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, the World Union for Progressive Judaism, the Religious Action Center and the Central Conference of American Rabbis. Our deepest condolences to her sister, Ursula Cohn, niece Rosalyn and her husband Ross Jarvis, and their children. Funeral services will be held at Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83rd Street, on Wednesday, July 14th, at 10:00AM. Shiva minyan services will be held at the Congregation on Wednesday and Thursday evenings at 6:30PM. Donations in her memory to Congregation Rodeph Sholom or to the World Union for Progressive Judaism. We are all diminished by her death. May she rest in peace. Robert N. Levine, D.D., Senior Rabbi President Nancy Solomon, President and The Board of Trustees of Congregaton Rodeph Sholom
      