
        TAYLOR--Walter Jennings. Walt Taylor passed away surrounded by his family on Wednesday, July 14, 2004 of complications related to lung disease. He was born on March 8, 1921 in New York, NY to Henry C. and Jeanette J. Taylor of Cold Spring Harbor and New York, NY. He graduated from St. Paul's School in Concord, NH in 1939. He attended Yale University in New Haven, CT for two years before enlisting in the U.S. Navy. He served in both the Atlantic and Pacific theatres and was honorably discharged in 1945 as a First Lieutenant. While stationed in Chicago he met Shirley Hopkins and they were married in Lake Forest, IL on April 15, 1944. Walt began his business career with Standard Oil of New York (now Exxon-Mobil) in New York City. After two years of living in New York, his love of wide open spaces pulled him to the West, where he traveled in search of the perfect ranch finally settling in Kirby, MT in the fall of 1948. Shirley joined him in the spring of 1949 with three children under the age of four. Over the years the family grew and the ranch was expanded. His son, Watty, and his family operate the ranch today. Walt was an avid sailor and oarsman in his early life. He rowed on the first crew at St. Paul's School and Yale. He remained close to many of his friends from those years. In the company of his father and brothers, he won the 1938 and 1948 Bermuda Races in their ocean-racing yawl, Baruna. He was an avid skier, first skiing in Aspen in 1945. Shirley and he bought their first winter home in 1955 and continued living and skiing there until 2003. Walt was a dedicated rancher, always trying to improve and enhance his ranch. He was an active member and supporter of the Montana Stockgrowers Association and the National Cattlemen's Beef Association. He had many friends from all walks of life and was a highly respected member of his community. Never one for idle conversation, he was well read and always interesting. He led by quiet example, and was an inspiration to his extended family. His parents and two brothers, Henry Stillman Taylor and Peter Burr Taylor, preceded Walt in death. He is survived by his wife of sixty years; his sister, Jean T. Johnson of Essex, CT; his four children, James Taylor and his wife Anne of Billings, MT, Susanna Meyer and her husband David of Woodbury, MN, Walter (Watty) Taylor, Jr. and his wife Lila of Kirby, MT, and Margie Taylor of Bozeman, MT; his grandchildren Marett, Farley, Kirby, Peter, Walter (Jay) III and wife Cheri Taylor, David and Etta Meyer; and numerous nieces and nephews. There will be a memorial service at the family ranch in Kirby at 11:00 A.M., Friday, July 23, 2004. Lunch will follow the service. Memorials in lieu of flowers may be made to: Mountain States Legal Foundation at 2596 South Lewis Way; Lakewood, CO 80227 or St. Paul's School for the benefit of the Cook Scholarship at 325 Pleasant Street, Concord, NH 03301. For information: Bullis Mortuary, Hardin, MT.
      