
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and the staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center note with great sorrow the death of Laurance S. Rockefeller. Fifty-seven years ago, in 1947, Mr. Rockefeller joined the Boards of Managers of Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases. For more than half a century, Mr. Rockefeller lent his vision, his wisdom, his generous philanthropic support, and his unflagging enthusiasm to Memorial Sloan-Kettering to create what is recognized today as one of the premier cancer centers in the world. His advocacy for integrating the care of cancer patients with an active program of teaching and research has been a vital factor in sustaining Memorial Sloan-Kettering's years of leadership, and we have been fortunate to receive his guidance and friendship as well. Mr. Rockefeller served as Chairman of the Boards of Overseers and Managers from 1960 to 1982. At the time of his death, he was Honorary Co-Chairman of the Boards. Laurance Rockefeller will be remembered for his help in creating a unified Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, as well as for his support of a building program that resulted in the Rockefeller Research Laboratories and the Rockefeller Outpatient Pavilion. Mr. Rockefeller's greatest contribution was his creative, collaborative, and thoughtful approach to managing and overcoming challenges. Patients with cancer and their families, and the Memorial Sloan - Kettering community will be forever in his debt. His spiritual and intellectual stewardship will be deeply missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the Rockefeller family. James D. Robinson III Honorary Co-Chairman of Boards Douglas A. Warner III Chairman of Boards Richard I. Beattie Vice Chairman of Boards Louis V. Gerstner, Jr. Vice Chairman of Boards Harold Varmus, MD President Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance Spelman. The Board of Trustees, faculty, students, and staff of The Rockefeller University deeply mourn the passing of our cherished friend, Laurance S. Rockefeller, beloved brother of our Honorary Chairman, David Rockefeller, and grandson of our founder, John D. Rockefeller. We join all Americans in saluting the enormous accomplishments of his unique and original life. His prodigious contributions to society cut across many fields and disciplines, including environmental conservation, recreation, ecological concerns, wilderness preservation, and leadership support for medical research and cancer care. He was a brilliant, risk-taking investor whose vision gave birth to the field of venture capitalism. Equally, he was a philanthropist of enormous distinction. His generosity, in company with his late wife, Mary, helped shape many of this country's premier academic, medical, and cultural institutions, including our partner in the Tri-Institutional Research Community, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. With David, he took great joy in the recent development of many collaborative relationships between Memorial Sloan - Kettering and Rockefeller University, two institutions that they served with distinction in their pro bono lives. He was also an avid photographer, who funded archival photography projects at the Rockefeller Archive Center. The Center continues to be a vital resource for scholars and researchers throughout the world. We extend our heartfelt and deepest sympathy to his brother David, our Life Trustee; his children, Laura, Marion, Lucy, and Larry; his eight grandchildren, his 12 great - grandchildren; and their families. Paul Nurse, President Richard B. Fisher, Chairman The Rockefeller University
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Central Park Convervancy note with deep sadness the passing of Laurance S. Rockefeller, a member of the Board from 1984 to 1992, and one of the first named ''Life Trustees'' from 1992 to present. During his tenure with the Conservancy, and throughout its formative years, Laurance's strong leadership and generosity provided a solid foundation for Central Park's continuing renaissance. As the Honorary Chair of and leadership donor to a 1987 capital campaign he helped raise $50 million over five years. He also gave significant gifts to the Park's Preservation Crew, Park statuary and the Ira Millstein Recreation Endowment that funds youth recreational programming in the upper park. Today, millions of New Yorkers and visitors from around the world enjoy the fruits of his commitment to the treasure that is Central Park. The progress made in revitalizing the Park will stand as a lasting tribute to a special man. We extend our sympathies to his friends and family. A.J.C. Smith, Chairman The Board of Trustees Central Park Conservancy
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of Laurance Rockefeller, beloved brother of David Rockefeller, our Chairman Emeritus. Laurance's gentle manner belied his keen business sense and his passionate devotion to philanthropy. His generosity preserved many natural spaces in this country, strengthened medical research and supported the work of numerous cultural and educational organizations. He will be sorely missed, but his legacy will endure. We extend our deepest sympathies to his children: Laura R. Chasin, Marion R. Weber, Dr. Lucy R. Waletzky, and Larry Rockefeller; and to the entire Rockefeller family. Agnes Gund, President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, New York
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The International Longevity Center-its trustees, officers and staff and Men's Forummourn the loss of our Honorary Chairman Laurance S. Rockefeller, philanthropist, philospher and environmentalist. His instinctive understanding of the vital connections between population aging and the environment also recognized the need for the productive engagement of all persons even into advanced age. We will especially miss his reflective, philosophical commitment to the maintenance of meaning in later life. Our condolences to his family, colleagues and friends. Robert N. Butler, M.D., President and CEO, International Longevity Center-USA 60 E. 86 St., New York City
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The Board of Governors of the New York College of Osteopathic Medicine of NYIT and the entire NYCOM community mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and benefactor, Laurance S. Rockefeller. Mr. Laurance had been a fervent supporter of our profession. He was a critical force in enabling our school to come into being from its inception and in its evolving into the largest institution of osteopathic education worldwide. His commitment and compassion will be sorely missed. We extend our condolences to his family and colleagues. G. Bruce Leib, Chairman Brian J. Waldron, D.O., Secy
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance Spelman. If the care of others is one measure of a life well lived, then Laurance's stature and accomplishment far exceed his 94 years. The HealthCare Chaplaincy was but one recipient of his love, friendship, counsel, cosmic optimism, and unfailing generosity. With his family and exceptionally devoted staff, we mourn his loss but celebrate his faithfulness on the journey to the new life he now embraces. Lawrence J. Toal, Chairman of the Board of Trustess Rev. Dr. Walter J. Smith, S.J. President & CEO
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The patients and staff of the Center for Special Studies of New York Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of Laurance S. Rockefeller. His encouragement and support for healthcare programs featuring a unified approach to the needs of the body, mind and spirit will be one of his many legacies. We will miss our thoughtful, kind and dear friend. Jonathan Jacobs Executive Director Samuel Merrick Medical Director
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance. NARAL Pro-Choice New York mourns the loss of Laurance S. Rockefeller, champion of reproductive rights for all women. A long time supporter of the Pro Choice movement and our organization, he was a stalwart friend and ally in the battle for reproductive freedom. His commitment, leadership and courage will be deeply missed. We send our heartfelt condolences to Mr. Rockefeller's family and all those who were touched by his legacy.
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance. The trustees and staff of the New York Hall of Science extend their deepest sympathies to his family as they mourn his loss. A good and generous friend of the Hall. He will be missed. Ivan G. Seidenberg, Chairman Alan J. Friedman, Director
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Laurance Rockefeller, and send condolences to his family.
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) mourns the death of Laurance Rockefeller, a superlative friend of conservation and a dedicated member of the WCS family for nearly 70 years. He brought singular integrity, a sense of personal mission and extraordinary commitment to his work with WCS. A member of the Board of Trustees since 1935, Laurance became an Honorary Trustee in 1986 and a Life Trustee in 1990. He served on our Executive Committee for 50 years, nearly half that time as its Chairman. In 1969, Laurance was elected President of WCS (then, the New York Zoological Society). In 1971, he took the position as Chairman of the Board of Trustees and acted as Honorary Chairman from 1975-1985. His active and important role in shaping the Bronx Zoo and New York Aquarium was matched by his work supporting the protection of wild places. In 1946, he and his brother John D. Rockefeller, in cooperation with WCS, founded Jackson Hole Wildlife Park, Wyoming. In 1986, we awarded Laurance our Gold Medal, in recognition of his 50 years of distinguished service. His advancement of conservation for the enrichment of humanity will live on as our inspiration; his legacy will be held tightly in our hearts always. We extend our deepest sympathies to his entire family. David T. Schiff Chairman WCS Board of Trustees Dr. Steven E. Sanderson WCS President and Chief Executive Officer
        ROCKEFELLER -- Laurance S. The Trustees and staff of Historic Hudson Valley are deeply saddened by the passing of Laurance S. Rockefeller, our Chairman Emeritus and an active, committed participant in the preservation and conservation of historic sites and landscapes. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his brother, his children and the entire Rockefeller family. Laurance S. Rockefeller's kindness, generosity and guidance over the last 30 years, also as a Trustee and Chairman of our organization, has ensured its longevity and prosperity. Mark F. Rockefeller, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Waddell W. Stillman, Pres
      