
        OSTER--Abe. It is with deep sadness that the Board and staff of the JCC on the Palisades mourn the loss of Abe Oster, a great friend and humanitarian, who devoted his life to making a meaningful difference in the lives of others. A son of Holocaust survivors, Abe made a lifelong commitment to fostering Jewish continuity and preserving spiritual sustenance. A generous benefactor, he was involved in the JCC since its founding. He and his wife Ann, also the child of Holocaust survivors, embraced a shared mission--to ensure that the tragedy of the Holocaust would never be forgotten or repeated--and created the Community Holocaust Memorial at the JCC; a garden of remembrance, Gan Hazikaron, which they named in memory of Abe's two siblings who perished in the Shoah. We can be assured that his legacy will continue to inspire future generations and we will honor his memory and the indelible mark he has left on all our lives. We send our sincerest condolences to his wife, Ann, and their children, Avi and Jane. May you be comforted amongst all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Daniel Rubin, President Avi Lewinson Executive Director JCC on the Palisades
        OSTER -- Abe. We are shocked at the sudden death of Abe Oster, son of Holocaust survivors, dedicated to the history of our past. A man of few words but many deeds. We express our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Ann, and to the entire family. On behalf of the Officers and members of the American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors. Benjamin Meed, President
        OSTER--Abe. The American Friends of Beth Hatefutsoth and the Museum in Tel Aviv, its Board and Staff mourn the sudden loss of our dear friend and benefactor. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Ann, his children Avi and Jane, his mother Miriam and brother Daniel. May his memory be for a blessing. Sam E. Bloch, Chairman Aaron Feingold, President Gloria Golan, Director
        OSTER--Abe. To Ann, Avi and Jane, we will always be there for you. Our hearts are broken. We lost one of our most valued friends. Our families shared so many wonderful times which will last in our memories forever. Nothing can replace this man of many faces. We love you always. Donna, David, Jamie, Brad and Tina
        OSTER--Abe. We mourn the loss of Abe Oster and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Ann, his children Avi and Jane, and his entire family. Abe will be missed by everyone who had the privilege of knowing him. Peter, Mary, Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow
        OSTER--Abe. Beloved and devoted husband, father, son, brother and friend. We will miss your wonderful kindness, humor and friendship. Your presence will always be with us. Shelley, Steven, Elisabeth, and Andrew Holm
        OSTER--Abe. The Board of Trustees of Englewood Hospital and Medical Center acknowledges with sadness the passing of Abe Oster on July 14, 2004 and extends sincere condolences to his family. May he rest in peace.
      