
        DANE--Maxwell (Mac). Died peacefully at home August 8, 2004. Will be sadly missed by his loving wife Esther, son Henry, grandsons Abe (Jane), Mike (Sue), Samuel, granddaughter Marion Abrams (Wilbur), three great grandchildren, step-daughter Sonia Simon Cummings (James K.) and nephew Andrew Feinstein (Sara) and his two children, Ricki and Katy. Donations may be made to the UJA (United Jewish Appeal) or ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union).
        DANE--Maxwell. On August 8th. Founder of Doyle, Dane and Bernbach. Funeral services will be held today, Wednesday, August 11th, 1 PM at Central Synagogue, 55th Street and Lexington Ave.
        DANE--Maxwell. DDB Worldwide and its staff are deeply saddened by the death of one of the company's founders. A pioneer in the advertising industry, he was renowned for his commitment to social justice that was recognized in 1996 when the UJA-Federation, for which he was a trustee, introduced the Maxwell Dane Humanitarian Award in his honor. He was a former director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, former chairman of the Anti-Defamation League's National Program Committee, chairman of the Public Relations Committee of the UJA-Federation Joint Campaign, a former trustee of the Citizens Union and member emeritus of the Board of Managers of Haverford College. We are grateful to have benefited from his knowledge, his counsel, his wit and warmth, and express our deepest sympathy to the Dane family. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, August 11th, 1PM at Central Synagogue, 123 E. 55 St., New York, N.Y. Keith Reinhard, Chairman, Ken Kaess, President & CEO
        DANE--Maxwell. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Maxwell Dane, a longtime supporter and friend who served for many years as Chairman of ADL's Program Division. Maxwell was an Honorary Vice Chair and Life Member of the National Executive Committee. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Esther, and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        DANE--Maxwell. The Board of Directors of 650 Park Avenue mourns the passing of Mac Dane, an esteemed member of the Board for over 30 years. We shall miss his invaluable advice and counsel. He was a dear friend and neighbor. Our sincere condolences to his wife Esther and family. Board of Directors 650 Park Avenue Marc Schauer, President
        DANE--Maxwell. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Maxwell Dane. Mac was a beloved member of our Board of Trustees and an adored friend. We extend heartfelt sympathy to Esther and his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President
        DANE--Maxwell. Uncle Mac--through the years you have been a guiding light. We will sorely miss your wit, wisdom and love. Andy, Sara, Rick, Katie
      