
        WACHSBERGER--Sylvia. It is with a heavy heart that the Abraham Joshua Heschel School community mourns the tragic death of our dear Sylvia Wachsberger, age 6. To her parents, Liz Neumark, Chaim Wachsberger, as well as to her siblings, our dear students, Sam, Kaitlin, and Nell, our hearts go out to you. Sylvia was full of life and spirit and we shall always remember her that way. She was loved by all who had the good fortune to have known her. To Liz, our devoted board member, and dear Chaim, we are all here for you as you have been for us. May you and your entire extended family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Alisa Doctoroff, President Board of Trustees Roanna Shorofsky Head of School The Abraham Joshua Heschel School
        WACHSBERGER -- Sylvia Rose Neumark. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the sudden and tragic death of our members Chaim Wachsberger and Liz Neumark's daughter, Sylvia Wachsberger. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to her entire family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Daniel J. Beller, President
        WACHSBERGER--Sylvia. To Chaim, Liz, Nell, Katie, and Sam. All our sympathy and our thoughts, our wishes and our prayers, are with you in your time of unutterable sadness and loss. May Sylvia's memory be a blessing to everyone who was touched by her life. The Weinstein, the Jaffe and the Cytryn families
        WACHSBERGER -- Sylvia Rose Neumark. The friends, neighbors, doormen and staff of 45 East 82nd Street and 40 East 83rd Street mourn the sudden and untimely loss of Sylvia Wachsberger. We extend our deepest sympathy to her devoted parents Liz & Chaim and her entire family. 82-83 Tenants Corp.
        WACHSBERGER--Sylvia. All of us at the firm of Chadbourne & Parke LLP express our deepest sympathies to Chaim and Liz Neumark Wachsberger and their entire family on the loss of Sylvia. Our hearts and prayers are with all of you. Chadbourne & Parke LLP
        WACHSBERGER -- Sylvia Rose Neumark. We offer the bonds of devotion and friendship to the entire NeumarkWachsberger families during their days of travail. Alvin and Davida Deutsch
        WACHSBERGER -- Sylvia Rose Neumark. In six short years you touched many lives. Your sparkling eyes and energetic smile will be with us forever. Barbara, Gary, Ali, Andrew
        WACHSBERGER -- Sylvia Rose Neumark. The Mohegan Park Jewish Center joins the Wachsberger, Neumark families in mourning the tragically untimely passing of their beloved Sylvia.
      