
        POLLACK--Honorable Milton, age 97, United States Senior Judge for the Southern District of New York, died Friday, August 13, 2004. He was the son of the late Julius and Betty Pollack and was born September 29, 1906 in Brooklyn, New York. Judge Pollack was blessed with two outstanding careers and two wonderful marriages. After more than thirty years as a distinguished trial lawyer in New York, he was appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson to the Federal Judiciary in 1967. In 1932 he married Lillian Klein who died in 1967. In 1971 he married Moselle Baum Erlich of Houston who died February 13, 2004. Beloved father of Stephanie and William Miller, Daniel and Susan Pollack, Joan and Marvin Kaplan, Judy and Rodney Margolis, and Phyllis and George Asch. Adoring and proud grandfather of Drs. Debra Singer and Hal Stein, Drs. Marcy Singer Gabella and William Gabella, Samuel and Laura Pollack, Gabriella Pollack, Jill and Jeff Levenson, Elizabeth and Daniel Treinish, Karen and Roy Brooks, Susan and Forrest Bruch, Deborah and Richard Kaplan, Nancy and Robert Risman, Melanie and Lawrence Margolis, Elizabeth and Randolph Guggenheimer, Mark and Tonya Miller, Drs. Rachel Miller and Kent Becker and Dr. Steven Miller. Cherished great - grandfather of 23. Brother of Muriel Brody and Lillian and Leo Morse and the late George Pollack. Services Wednesday, August 18th, 11 AM at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
        POLLACK -- Judge Milton. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York mourns the passing of Judge Milton Pollack, eminent jurist and member of the Temple's Board of Trustees. Judge Pollack's life was an embodiment of the ideal that was expressed by David in the Book of Psalms: ''Mercy and Truth are met together; Righteousness and Peace have kissed each other.'' We shall forever remember the years when the Judge sat in the chamber of our Board, and with a spirit that bore the stamp of the wisdom of the ages, he counselled us and he inspired us with words that reflected his love for God, his reverence for Judaism, and his devotion to the Jewish people and to all of humanity. His stature and his presence will never be forgotten. Dr. David M. Posner, Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi Emeritus Robert A. Bernhard, President Herbert C. Bernard, Secretary
      