
        ROSS--Lois. A resident of Westport, CT for over 18 years, died peacefully in her sleep at her home on August 10, 2004, after a long and difficult struggle with lupus. She was 62 years of age. A former spokesperson for Kodak in their National Campaign on Family Portrait Photography during the mid 1980's, her family became the ''Kodak Family'' appearing in publicity photos taken at Ca d'Zan, the John and Mabel Ringling Winter Residence on Sarasota Bay in Sarasota, FL. by the internationally acclaimed photographer Christopher Der Mannuelian, of San Mateo. Her career began in fashion modeling in the 1970's and grew into fashion consulting, staging many fashion events for Neiman Marcus, Macy's, Bloomingdales, Saks Fifth Avenue, J C Penney and Filene's, locally, and from Washington DC to Boston. Ultimately she produced major fashion events for the Stamford Town Center amphitheater in Stamford, CT. During this period she appeared in numerous tv commercials, print ads and billboards for major US companies, from AT&T, Pepsi and Charmin, a member of SAG and AFTRA, and was a very busy hand model for major products, as well. She completed her undergraduate studies at Syracuse University, Finch College and Columbia University as an art history major. She leaves behind Arthur, her beloved husband of 44 years, three adult children, Cheri Sarner of Jupiter, FL, Robert Ross of Darien, CT and Steven Ross of Sterling, VA, as well as five beloved grandchildren, Harrison and Arden Sarner, and Morgan, Madeleine and Meridith Ross. She was the daughter of the late Seymour and Syde Goldberg of Purchase, NY and Palm Beach, FL, and is survived by her step-mother, Bella Goldberg of Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Services will be held on Friday, August 13, 2004 at Riverside Memorial Chapel at noon at 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon, NY (914-664-6800). Burial services will follow at Beth David Cemetery in Elmont, NY. Lois will be sorely missed by her friends and family. In lieu of flowers please make a memorial donation in memory of Lois Ross to the Lupus Foundation of America, Inc., 2000 L Street, NW Suite 710, Washington, DC 20036.
      