
        SOLOMON--Susan. On August 15, 2004 after a brief illness. Beloved daughter of Max and the late Doris. Loving sister of Steven and the late Cindy. Dear sister-in-law of Bess Miller and cherished aunt of David and Matthew. Services Wednesday, 11:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in her memory may be made to Judges and Lawyers Breast Cancer Alert, 1369 Madison Ave, PMB 424, N.Y., N.Y. 10128.
        SOLOMON -- Susan. passed away on Sunday August 15 following a valiant struggle against breast cancer. Susan had been an active member of Judges and Lawyers Breast Cancer Alert since the organization was formed over ten years ago. Susan devoted endless hours and her great talent for organization to making our Courthouse Alert successful. The Courthouse Alert provides information about breast cancer as well as free mammograms at the various courthouses throughout the State. Susan was JALBCA's Secretary and co-Chair of its Committee of the Women's Bar Association of the State of New York Board. She received the Volunteer Service Award from JALBCA in 2004. An active member of both the Brooklyn and New York Chapters of the Women's Bar Association of the State of New York, Susan was also active in the courthouse community. She sat on the Executive Committee of the Law Secretaries' and Law Assistants' Collegium, Inc., Supreme and Surrogates Court, First Department, and was a member of the Anti-Bias Committee of the Supreme Court, Civil Branch, New York County. She is a graduate of Barnard College and Fordham University School of Law and, upon graduation, worked in the Appellate Division Second Department, as a Court Attorney and Law Clerk to Justice William C. Thompson Sr. She was Court Attorney to Justice Robert D. Lippmann. Prior to attending law school, Ms. Solomon held positions in the Office of the Mayor, the Office of the City Council President and the New York City Office of Economic Development as well as in the private sector in the area of media and public relations. She is survived by her father Max Solomon, her brother Steven Solomon, her sister-in-law Bess Miller, nephews David and Matthew Solomon and many friends. Donations in her memory maybe made to JALBCA, 1369 Madison Ave, PMB 424, New York, NY, 10128.
      