
        SHATTUCK--Martha Merrill. Died peacefully at her home in Guilford, CT on August 21. She is survived by the family that she was devoted to and who love her and miss her: James, her husband of 63 years; her three sons, Bradlee, Alden and Jonathan; her daughter-in-law, Marianne; her five grandchildren, Johan, Kyle, Trevor, Brendan and Avery; her granddaughters-in-law, Trisha and Emily; and her great-grandchildren, Xavier, Johan and Elise. Apart from the satisfaction she found in caring for her family and friends, Martha found peace and guidance in her faith as well as great happiness in charity, activity, travel and learning. She was born Martha Merrill, the only child of Guy and Alice Merrill, in Cambridge, MA on March 29th, 1920. She graduated from Tufts (Jackson) College in 1941 and married James H. Shattuck of Neenah, WI that same year. Two years later, in 1943, Martha began a lifelong avocation of contributing her time and energy to a total of 23 philanthropic, educational and other organizations starting with the Prisoner of War Committee of the American Red Cross in Appleton, WI (Chairman) and ending with her membership on the Board of Friends of Grove Street Cemetery in 2001. It's not possible to list them all but a sample of the roles she played would include Chairman of the New Haven Unit of Recording for the Blind; member and Chairwoman (1980-83) of the Board of Trustees of Quinnipiac College; founding member of the Board of Directors of the Friends of the New Haven Library; Director of the First Constitution Financial Corporation; member of the Board of Directors of the Dorothy Whitfield Historical Society in Guilford, CT; and member of the Board of Trustees of Yale-New Haven Hospital. In 2003, Quinnipiac College awarded Martha an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters. In lieu of flowers, please send a contribution in her name for the use of the Oncology Department of Yale-New Haven Hospital. Burial will be private. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, September 1, at 1 PM at the First Congregational Church, Broad and Church Streets, Guilford, CT.
      