
        POLLACK--Honorable Milton, age 97, United States Senior Judge for the Southern District of New York, died Friday, August 13, 2004. He was the son of the late Julius and Betty Pollack and was born September 29, 1906 in Brooklyn, New York. Judge Pollack was blessed with two outstanding careers and two wonderful marriages. After more than thirty years as a distinguished trial lawyer in New York, he was appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson to the Federal Judiciary in 1967. In 1932 he married Lillian Klein who died in 1967. In 1971 he married Moselle Baum Erlich of Houston who died February 13, 2004. Beloved father of Stephanie and William Miller, Daniel and Susan Pollack, Joan and Marvin Kaplan, Judy and Rodney Margolis, and Phyllis and George Asch. Adoring and proud grandfather of Drs. Debra Singer and Hal Stein, Drs. Marcy Singer Gabella and William Gabella, Samuel and Laura Pollack, Gabriella Pollack, Jill and Jeff Levenson, Elizabeth and Daniel Treinish, Karen and Roy Brooks, Susan and Forrest Bruch, Deborah and Richard Kaplan, Nancy and Robert Risman, Melanie and Lawrence Margolis, Elizabeth and Randolph Guggenheimer, Mark and Tonya Miller, Drs. Rachel Miller and Kent Becker and Dr. Steven Miller. Cherished great - grandfather of 23. Brother of Muriel Brody and Lillian and Leo Morse and the late George Pollack. Services Wednesday, August 18th, 11 AM at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue at 65th Street.
        POLLACK--Milton. The Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend Milton Pollack, who served our institution for many years as a member of the Beth Israel Board of Trustees. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Judge Pollack's family, friends, colleagues and loved ones. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Board of Trustees Thomas Killip, M.D. Interim President & CEO Donald M. Kastenbaum, M.D. President, Medical Board
        POLLACK--Milton. The Judges of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York are deeply saddened by the death of our colleague, a Senior Judge of our Court and extend our sympathy to his family. Michael B. Mukasey, Chief Judge
      