
        BERKOWITZ--William. Age 62, died peacefully in his sleep at his home in Sarasota, FL, on Sunday, August 22, 2004, after a long battle with cancer. Mr. Berkowitz, as President of one of the nation's first and largest retail Money Market Mutual Funds, Dreyfus Liquid Assets, helped to transform the way Americans save. As he told ''Forbes'' in 1980, ''...the savings public is becoming more sophisticated. It will not stand for this 5% rate on passbooks (savings accounts).'' He fought against the regulation of the money market industry and welcomed competition from banks by testifying in favor of lifting Regulation Q--which prevented banks from paying prevailing high interest rates on savings accounts. In 1964 a twenty-three year old William ''Bill'' Berkowitz came to work at The Dreyfus Corporation, the New York based investment management firm. By 1974 Bill Berkowitz had become an officer of The Dreyfus Corporation, and soon thereafter he created and became President of Dreyfus Liquid Assets, one of the first retail oriented Money Market Mutual Funds. Dreyfus' money market services and assets grew to a top industry position under his leadership. By 1981 most of Dreyfus' $12.4 billion of assets under management was in short-term money in over 300,000 accounts. Bill became President of the Reich & Tang, L.P. Mutual Funds Group and Executive Vice President and Director of Reich & Tang L.P. in 1982. The Mutual Funds Group grew rapidly under his leadership until 1994 when Reich & Tang, L.P. merged with the asset management division of the New England Companies, creating one of the largest investment management companies in the world. He was also a VicePresident and Board member of various third party mutual funds like Gabelli Asset Growth, Equitable Life's money market mutual funds and Speers, Benzak, Solomon and Farrell Funds. He was born September 20, 1941, in Bronx, NY. Before receiving his Bachelor of Science in Finance from New York University in 1963, he attended Syracuse University and graduated from Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan in 1959. He lived in Middletown, NJ, and commuted to New York City for 16 years before moving to Sarasota, FL, in 1982. He retired from Reich and Tang, L.P. in 1994. Through the William and Dale S. Berkowitz Family Foundation and through invididual efforts, Bill supported the Flanzer Jewish Community Center of Sarasota, FL, and its Maccabi Games. He also supported the Florida Studio Theatre and the Sarasota YMCA Foundation. Bill was an avid art collector and a patron of a number of local Sarasota artists. Survivors include his beloved wife of 41 years, Dale S.; a daughter and son in law, Dana B. and John Snyder of Columbia, MD; sons and daughters in law David L. and Patti C. of Middletown, NJ, Barry J. and Chrissy of Potomac, MD, and Jeffrey A. and Susan of Sarasota; a sister Harriet Fortgang of Atlanta; and six grandchildren, Matthew, Dylan, Daniel, Bryce, Anna and Alexandra. Services and entombment were held on August 25, 2004, at the Palms Funeral Home and Memorial Park, 170 Honore Ave, Sarasota, FL 34232. Memorial donations may be made to Hospice of Southwest Florida, 5955 Rand Blvd, Sarasota, FL 34228.
      