
        HENICK--Nita H. 79, died on August 14 after a courageous six year fight against cancer. ''It was a second honeymoon,'' said her beloved husband of 55 years, William, referring to the nonstop schedule of family visits, world travel, the theater, the opera and visits with friends. She will be greatly missed by her children, Daniel (Rita), Arthur (Sharon Cromwell), and Susan (Jack Bellis) and by her grandchildren, Maggie, Adam, Ian, Jessica and Kira. She is also survived by her sister, Dr. Ruth Lebovitz and her nephews, Richard and Roger Lebovitz. Nita was dedicated to her family and to her profession. She was a social work supervisor at the Coler - Goldwater Hospital Complex for over 25 years. She served on the long-term care panel for the Health Systems Agency, the federal overseer for NY hospitals, and on the board of the NYC Health and Hospitals Corporation, its successor organization. In addition, she served the NYC Chapter of the National Association of Social Workers in many capacities and served as its president for two years. In all her endeavors, Nita showed uncommon zestful energy, expertise, and determination. Contributions in her memory may be made to a charity of the donor's choice. Services will be held on Monday, August 16 at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 98-60 Queens Boulevard, Forest Hills at 12 noon. Shiva will be observed at 2110 33rd Road, Long Island City on Tuesday, August 17 and Wednesday, August 18.
        HENICK--Nita H. Board member and strong advocate for seniors. We mourn her death and will miss her. Her work is done. Our sympathies to Bill and her family. Nat Yalowitz, President David Smith, Chairman Ed Yaker, Vice President NORC Supportive Services Center, Inc.
        HENICK--Nita. The Board of Directors of the NYC Chapter, National Association of Social Workers mourns the death of our former president. Nita's strength, vision and commitment to the profession inspire us all. Paul Kurzman, PhD, Pres. Robert Schachter, DSW, Dir.
        HENICK--Nita. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Nita Henick. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President
      