
        PALMER--Nancie B. Aged 86, has died peacefully in Ridgewood, NJ, on August 2nd. Born Nancie Harriet Brown on October 12, 1917, in Milwaukee, WI, she was the daughter of Victor L. Brown and Harriet Z. Brown, longterm residents of Milwaukee. Her father Victor, an immigrant from Denmark, graduated in the very first class of Harvard Business School and became a successful financier. His Milwaukeebased firm, Motors Acceptance, pioneered automobile finance in the United States. Nancie attended Downer Seminary in Milwaukee, Rosemary Hall in Wallingford, CT, and Vassar College. In 1938 she was married to Thomas Nichols of New York, NY, then an executive with E.I. DuPont and subsequently a member of the U.S. Government War Production Board and the Harriman Mission to London. They were divorced in 1944 and in 1947 she married George J. Stewart of London, UK, and New York, NY. Mr. Stewart was a wellknown Lloyds underwriter and broker, whose firm Stewart, Smith maintained offices in many countries. From 1956 to 1974 Mr. Stewart was the owner of Sam Lord's Castle in Barbados. They lived in New York City and London. Mr. Stewart died in 1975 and Nancie married Harold C. Palmer. The couple lived in New York City and Indian Wells, CA. Palmer died in 1988. For many years, Nancie played a very prominent role in numerous New York City charities. In addition to being a vice president of the Junior League, from 1956 to 1970, Nancie was Chairman of the Day Care Council of New York City, a pioneering agency for early childhood care and education, and subsequently became a national vice president of that agency. She was also active with the International Social Service and the Hunger Task Force. For many years Nancie had been a member of the Colony Club and Cosmopolitan Club in New York City, and the Eldorado Country Club in Indian Wells, CA. She is survived by her four children: Timothy Nichols of Annapolis, MD, and Jamaica, VT, George J. Stewart of San Francisco, CA, Victor E. Stewart of Ridgewood, NJ, and Caroline Nation, of New York City, as well as three grandchildren. An older sister, Victoria, died in 1958. A funeral service is planned for Tuesday, August 10, at 11 am, at the St. Elizabeth's Episcopal Church in Ridgewood, with interment at a later date in the Brown family plot in Milwaukee. For information, contact C.C. Van Emburgh Funeral Home, Ridgewood, www.vanemburgh.com
      