
        KAMEN--Dr. Saul, 88 died of a stroke on August 23, 2004. Beloved father of Dr. Paul Kamen, Dr. Leonard Kamen and Jon Kamen. Beloved brother of Rebecca Jarmon. Beloved grandfather of Sasha, Ashley, Zoe, Max, Jacob, Lisa and Zack. Beloved father-in-law of Nancy, Sandra, Sandy and Angela. He was bereft from the recent losses of his beloved wife Helen and his beloved son Michael, the noted composer. His deep commitment to human values led him to devote his professional career to pioneering the advancement of dental care for patients with special needs. After receiving a BA from NYU, he attended the University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine, graduating in 1940. For 30 years he served as Chief of Pediatric Dentistry at the Long Island JewishHillside Medical Center. There, he designed and conducted a continuing education program in the Dental Management of Developmentally Disabled Persons, most of them children. This course trained thousands of dental professional throughout the world in this specialized area of dental care. He later focused his interest on older persons with special needs, serving from 1971-1987 as Chief of Dental Service at the Parker Geriatric Institute. This was the first approved geriatric dental training program in the US. He was one of the early organizers of the American Society for Geriatric Dentistry and the Federation of Special Care Organizations in Dentistry. He was Professor of Dental Health at SUNY Stony Brook, and held numerous other faculty appointments, including the Columbia University School of Dental and Oral Surgery, St. Barnabas Hospital, the Bronx VA Medical Center and Goldwater Hospital. Through his teaching and prolific writings, he inspired thousands of dental professionals throughout the world to devote themselves to caring for patients with special needs. His legacy will be the vastly improved quality of life for many thousands of people throughout the world, demonstrated by their smiles. To his friends he was a perpetual source of warmth and great humor. To his family he was warm, loving, and generous; unstinting in his devotion. He will be sorely missed. Services Wednesday 10 am at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
      