
        HAWKINS--Priscilla Finn, of Bronxville, NY, on August 8th, after a mercifully brief battle with lung cancer. Wife of Frederic Hyde Hawkins, mother of Elizabeth Sokmensuer of Bronxville, Cynthia Guarino of Berlin, Germany, and Faith Kirkham Hawkins of Decatur, GA; mother-in-law of Hakan Sokmensuer and John Guarino; grandmother of six beloved grandchildren. Sister of Harold Bolton Finn III of Greenwich, CT and the late Marian Finn Mullen of Dayton, OH. A graduate of Wellesley College, Mrs. Hawkins was the Special Assistant to the President and Secretary of the College at Sarah Lawrence College, where she had worked since 1976. Family and friends will remember her strength, wisdom, compassion and enormous enthusiasm for life. Calling hours at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, Bronxville, between the hours of 2 to 4 and 7 to 9 PM Thursday. Mass of Christian Burial, St. Joseph's Church, Bronxville on Friday, August 13th, at 10 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Priscilla Finn Hawkins Scholarship Fund at Sarah Lawrence College.
        HAWKINS -- Priscilla. Sarah Lawrence College mourns the death of our beloved Priscilla Hawkins, Secretary of the College and Special Assistant to the President. Priscilla came to Sarah Lawrence on June 1, 1976 to be Director of Administrative Services, responsible for managing human resources. Over her nearly 30-year tenure she stepped in to play a significant role in numerous areas across the College, including admimission, communica tions, fund-raising and financial aid, to name only a few. She was an invaluable source of wise counsel and support to the President and the Board of Trustees. Her remarkable mind was a repository of almost three decades of College history and knowledge, spanning the tenure of three presidents. She was a woman of generosity and grace, of virtue and wit, of humor and compassion. She will be long remembered for her sense of justice and equity, her mastery of critical detail and precise writing, her intuitiveness, her sense of the strategic, her integrity and, above all, her deep understanding of and devotion to the College. Our lives at Sarah Lawrence are diminished by this loss of a great woman who was a friend to us all. We at Sarah Lawrence College extend our sympathy and love to her husband, Ted, also a cherished friend of the College, and to her entire family. Robert Riggs, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Michele Tolela Myers, President Barbara Kaplan, Dean of the College
      