
        ROBINSON--Dr. Roscoe Ross, ''Ike'', 74, died on Saturday, Aug. 7 after a lengthy illness. A 1954 graduate of the University of Oklahoma Medical School, Dr. Robinson received his post-graduate training at Duke University and Columbia University. He then spent 24 years working at Duke, where he started and headed its first Division of Nephrology and where he later served as the Chief Executive Officer of Duke Hospital. In 1981, Dr. Robinson came to Vanderbilt as Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs, a position he held until 1997. Under his leadership, Vanderbilt experienced a period of major growth and development in the areas of patient care, faculty, facilities, and research. Upon his retirement, Vanderbilt and friends recognized his contributions to the university by the establishment in his name of two endowed chairs, a lectureship, and a library collection. In addition, the Ann and Roscoe Robinson Medical Research Building was named in his honor. Dr. Robinson was the recipient of many awards and honors recognizing his work in academic medicine and as a civic leader. He served as president of both the American and International Societies of Nephrology, was a past chairman of the Nephrology Board, and was the founding editor of the most prestigious journal in nephrology, Kidney International. He was a trustee at Duke University, a life trustee at Montgomery Bell Academy in Nashville, and a past member of the boards of Cheekwood, the YMCA, the United Way, and Hospital Hospitality House, all in Nashville. He served on the boards of Sun Health, Inc., ClinTrials, Inc., and First American Corporation. He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Ann Allen Robinson, and two daughters, Brooke Robinson of Nashville, and Susan Solberg of Baltimore, Md. Two grandchildren, John Robinson Solberg and Sarah Allen Solberg, both of Baltimore, and his sister, Lucy Hill of San Marcos, Texas, also survive him. Donations may be made to the Robinson Medical Student Scholarship Fund at Vanderbilt, Vanderbilt Gift Processing, Vanderbilt University, PO Box Station B, Nashville, Tenn., 37235-7727, or to the charity of the donor's choice.
      