
        KOCH--Peggy (Edelstein). 70, on August 7, 2004, after a heroic battle with cancer. Devoted mother of Rabbi Jacqueline Koch Ellenson (Rabbi David), Daniel (Nicole), Robert, and Sharon (Francois). Adoring grandmother of Hannah, Naomi, Raphael, Ruthie (Robert), Micah, Charles and Charlotte. Sister of Arnold and Marvin Edson. Loving sister-in-law, aunt and devoted friend. A true Upper West-Sider and gourmet chef. She lived life to the fullest and will be deeply missed. Funeral services Tuesday, August 10 at noon at Plaza Community Chapel, 91 St and Amsterdam Ave., NY, NY. Contributions may be made to the Irwin Gelernt Scholarship Fund at the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine.
        KOCH--Peggy. Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion records with profound sorrow the death of Peggy Koch. Peggy was an exceptionally dedicated mother to her children, Robert, Daniel and Nicole, Jacqueline Koch Ellenson and to her son-in-law David. As a doting grandmother she was essential to each family member's life. Her broad winsome smile embraced old friends and new. As a member of the Museum Advisory Committee of the College-Institute, she took personal pride in the vision set forth by the College. Peggy maintained her strength and grace while struggling with her difficult illness during these last few years. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
        KOCH--Peggy. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the passing of our beloved member, Peggy Koch. We will always remember her unselfish devotion to family and friends and her passion for living. We send our deepest condolences to her children, Rabbi Jackie Koch Ellenson and Rabbi David Ellenson, Daniel and Nicole and Robert, her grandchildren, and all their dear ones. May her memory be a blessing. Robert N. Levine, D.D., Senior Rabbi Nancy Solomon, President
        KOCH--Peggy. Dear Peggy, you were such an important part of our lives. Your love, friendship and indomitable spirit will remain with us always. We love you. Lois, Lee, Risa, Cal, Alicia, Tony, Isaiah and Michelle
        KOCH--Peggy. We mourn the loss of our Aunt Peggy. We will truly miss her. We extend our condolences to our cousins and their children. Richard, Lynn, Steven, Ellen, Susan, Michael & our children
      