
        KNAUTH--Behri Pratt, 82, of Stonington, CT died peacefully at Fairview Manor on August 19, 2004. She was born in New York City, November 10, 1921, the daughter of Richard Pratt and Marjorie Marsh. She was graduated from Julia Richmond High School in 1939, where she excelled in the arts. She went on to study art at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts and the Art Students League. After working as First Piece Inspector at Sperry Gyroscope in 1943, she began a career in magazine design with Seventeen, Junior Bazaar, Engineering News Record and Life Magazine. It was there that she met her husband Percy. In the coming years she kept busy doing freelance work while raising a family in NYC. In 1966 the family moved to Paris where Percy served as Foreign Editor for Time-Life. It was during this time that she learned French cuisine and studied under Simone Beck. In 1970 they moved to Stonington, CT where she continued to explore her passion for cooking, teaching and for a time, running the Club 145 in Stonington. In 1975 she joined the staff at Mystic Seaport Museum and returned to publication design, retiring in 1980. Throughout her life she shared her passion of the arts and music with all around her. She was predeceased by her husband Percy, in 1995, and her brother Timothy Ashe. She is survived by her sons Timothy Pratt Knauth of Stonington, Geoffrey Stanton Knauth of Williamsport, PA and her daughter Elisabeth Anne Knauth of Mystic, CT, four stepsons, Peter Gries Knauth of Kilmarnik, VA, Phillip Whitman Knauth of Hong Kong, Allan Roediger Knauth of Munster, Germany and Steven Alexander Knauth of Ivoryton, CT, her brother Thane Ashe and sister Maedra Kellam. She had three grandchildren, Mary Wright of Mystic, CT and Alexander and William Knauth of Williamsport, PA. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Donations in her memory may be made to the VNA of Southeastern Connecticut, 403 North Frontage Road, Waterford, CT 06385-4349. For information: Mystic Funeral Home, Route 1, Mystic.
      