
        SCHEUER--Walter. An investor, philanthropist, and producer of documentary films, died on Monday, September 20, 2004, after a period of decline. Wally will be remembered with great love by his devoted wife, Marge, his children, David, Jeffrey, Susan, and Judith, their spouses, his seven grandchildren, and his many friends and associates. Wally was born in New York City in 1922, and attended The Ethical Culture School, Fieldston School, and Swarthmore College, from which he graduated with high honors. During World War II, he served in the U.S. Army Signal Corps, in the South Pacific, including New Guinea and the Philippines, aboard The U.S.S. Blue Ridge. In 1979, in the middle of a successful career on Wall Street, he produced a documentary film about the violinist Issac Stern's tour of China, the first by a major Western classical musician. The film ''From Mao To Mozart: Isaac Stern in China'' won an Academy Award in 1981 for best documentary. In addition to ''From Mao To Mozart'' Walter Scheuer produced a number of other documentary films, including ''High Fidelity'' (1988) about the Guarneri Quartet, ''November's Children'' a 1991 film about the Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia, ''Dancemaker'' about The Paul Taylor Dance Company, and ''Small Wonders'' a film about Roberta Tzavaras and Opus 110 an organization devoted to teaching music to inner city children which was an Academy Award nominee in 1995, and became the basis for the feature film ''Music Of The Heart.'' Mr. Scheuer served on the Boards of Carnegie Hall, Symphony Space, and The Paul Taylor Dance Company. He privately sponsored many young students from around the world to come to study in New York and supported other documentary filmmakers. In 1999, Mr. Scheuer was awarded his most cherished honor: an Honorary Degree from his alma mater, Swarthmore College. Services will be held on Thursday, September 23, at Riverside Chapel, West 76Street at 2:30 PM.
        SCHEUER -- Walter. The Board and Staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the loss of beloved friend and dedicated Trustee, Walter Scheuer, who died on September 20, 2004, at the age of eighty-two. Wally has been a mainstay at Carnegie Hall during virtually all of its non-profit life. He became a Board Member in 1977, and was quietly at the forefront of every important development in Carnegie Hall's renaissance, working collegially with his beloved friend, Isaac Stern, and with the entire Carnegie Hall family. Wally was a man completely without a personal agenda. His love and his passion were for music and for developing the careers, and enriching the lives of all those who have music in them. He found in Marge an equally graceful and sophisticated partner who shared his passions. All of us at Carnegie Hall feel personally bereft by this loss, for Wally's family was all encompassing, and his generosity was limitless and unstinting. We express our heartfelt condolences to Marge, and to Susan, Judith, David, Jeffrey, and the extended family. Sanford I. Weill, Chairman
        SCHEUER--Walter. Symphony Space mourns the passing of its beloved leader, supporter and friend, Walter Scheuer. From our earliest seasons, Wally's amazing generosity was exceeded only by his cheerful optimism in the face of all our challenges, his constant encouragment of and enthusiasm for new artistic projects, his mischevious and wicked sense of humor, and the zest and joie de vivre he brought to every phase of our growth. We will miss the fun and the brightness he brought to us and to so many others. Our hearts go out to his darling Marge and to the whole Scheuer family. Isaiah Sheffer, Artistic Dir. Allan Miller, Co-Founder Cynthia Elliott, Exec. Dir. Steven M. Alden, Bd. Chrmn. Richard Mittenthal, Pres.
      