
        HARRIS--Irving Brooks. A beloved gentle giant, a hero for our times. He chose to champion the cause of those who have no voice -- babies, young children and their families, especially those in poverty. With his passion, curiosity, brilliance, tireless advocacy and generosity, Irving Harris rallied others to help create the ''Zero to Three'' field where previously there was none. A visionary, it took Irving Harris to discern the effectiveness of our model programs and invest in them. He always gave with trusting respect, a model for the field itself. His passing leaves a painful gap, but his light lives on in us, in countless babies, children, parents, workers, clinicians, researchers, and programs across North America, Israel, and beyond. We send deepest sympathies to Irving's loving wife, Joan, and to his entire family of children, grandchildren and great grandchildren, each of whom were so precious to him. Rebecca Shahmoon Shanok, LCSW, Ph.D., Director Renee Ward, Chair, Leadership Council Maureen Cogan, Chair-elect, Institute for Infants, Children & Families Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services
        HARRIS--Irving B. The American Jewish Committee mourns the passing of Irving B. Harris, one of our most devoted leaders and generous benefactors for more than half a century. Irving was a member of AJC's National Leadership Council, President's Cabinet and was a Founder of AJC's Institute on American Jewish-Israeli Relations. In his local Chicago Chapter, he served on the Advisory Council for 35 years and co-chaired its Major Gifts Event for nearly as long. He was awarded our prestigious Human Rights Medallion for his longstanding work to battle anti-Semitism and promote positive intergroup relations. Irving was a wise and gentle man with an abiding love for the Jewish people and all the world's children. He will be sorely missed. We send our heartfelt condolences to his wife Joan, his children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. E. Robert Goodkind, Pres David A. Harris, Exec Dir
        HARRIS--Irving B. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of longtime friend and supporter, Irving B. Harris. A member of the Institute's Board of Governors, he provided generous support, including the creation of the Irving B. Harris Fund for Brain Research. He was twice honored, along with his wife Joan Harris, by the Chicago Region ACWIS, and earlier this year was the recipient of the Weizmann Award in the Sciences and Humanities. We express our deepest sympathies to his beloved family. Robert B. Machinist, Chair, American Committee Dr. Albert Willner, Pres., American Committee Martin S. Kraar, Exec. V.P., American Committee Stuart Eizenstat, Chair, Weizmann Institute Prof. Ilan Chet, Pres., Weizmann Institute
        HARRIS--Irving Brooks. The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledges with great sadness the death of Irving Harris. He pioneered state - of - the - art programs for at risk children. He inspired and guided the creation of the JBFCS Institute for Infants, Children & Families, now a national leader in the training of practitioners working with young children and their families. He deeply believed in the Institute and its mission, and we are so grateful to him for his extraordinary vision and support. The Irving Brooks Harris Lecture will serve as a lasting reminder of his commitment to bettering the lives of young children. Our condolences to his entire family. Jean L. Troubh, President Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Exec. VP and CEO
        HARRIS -- Irving. Zero to Three expresses profound sorrow on the passing of a true champion of babies and toddlers. Without Irving's passion and vision, society's youngest children would not be as well understood or supported. His leadership and generosity helped to create and sustain the Ounce of Prevention Fund, the Yale Child Study Center, Erikson Institute and Zero to Three, among others. Joan, Bill and the entire family have our deepest sympathies. The Board and Staff of Zero to Three
      