
        ELIAS--Eli. Beloved husband of Sara. Loving father of Roslyn Hazan, Allan and Richard. Adored grandfather to nine and great grandfather to ten. He was the beloved patriarch of our family and will be deeply missed. Services today, 10AM ''Boulevard-Riverside Chapels'', 1450 Bdwy, Hewlett, L.I.
        ELIAS--Eli. The officers and members of the New York Skirt & Sportswear Association, Inc. record with profound sorrow the passing of Eli Elias, retired President and Executive Director of the Association. For many decades, he devoted his energy and ability to the advancement of the interests of all association members and of the entire apparel industry and to the maintenance of harmonious management-labor relations. He served with distinction on the Boards of the Federation of Apparel Manufacturers, the Garment Industry Development Corporation, the Educational Foundation of the Fashion Institute of Technology, the High School of Fashion Industries and the Council for American Fashion. He was a long-time management trustee of many union benefit funds. He was truly a giant in the apparel industry and his leadership, integrity, creativity and dedication will be sorely missed. We express our heartfelt condolences to the Elias family. New York Skirt & Sportswear Association, Inc. Jack Glauberman, Exec Dir Counsel
        ELIAS--Eli. The Sephardic Temple of Cedarhurst, NY records with deep regret the passing of Eli Elias. A Founder of the Congregation, he was a very proud Jew committed to the Sephardic tradition. Throughout his life he served in every leadership role of the Sephardic community and his name was a symbol of commitment to the traditions of his ancestors. As Honorary President of the United Sephardim of Brooklyn he inspired a generation of Sephardim to form a congregation in New Lots which ultimately served as the model for the Sephardic Temple in Cedarhurst. His life was a symbol of the grandeur and aristocracy of the Balkan Sephardic tradition. His memory will serve us as an everlasting inspiration of the power of an individual to lead and inspire. Condolences to his wife Sara and the entire family. May they be consoled among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Arnold B. Marans Hazzan David Abikzer Joseph Camhi, President Isaac J. Russo, Chairman Tina Erbesh, Sist. Pres.
        ELIAS--Eli. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of a most beloved friend, a great Sephardic statesman and benefactor of the Sephardic Home. Eli was an esteemed founder and recipient of the Home's first humanitarian award for over 55 years of extraordinary service. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Sara, children: Roz and Marty Hazan and family, Richard and Terry and family and Alan and Midge Elias and family. Officers and Board of Directors of the Sephardic Home and LASHA Ira Rousso, Chairman of the Board Cliff Russo, President Michael New, Executive Director Reggie Goldberg, LASHA Honorary President Marion Crespi, LASHA Honorary President
        ELIAS--Eli. The Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries and the Fashion Institute of Technology note with great sadness the passing of Eli Elias, one of our first emeritus members and a longtime supporter of the college's academic mission and New York City's fashion industry. He was a valued advisor and steadfast friend whose wisdom, wit, and unfailing generosity will not be forgotten. John J. Pomerantz, Chairman Dr. Joyce F. Brown, CEO
      