
        STEIN--Malcolm L. On September 11, 2004. Beloved husband of Harriet Weiss Stein. Loving father of Jonathan W. Stein (Sharon Merriam) and Alison Eve Stein (Andrew Isaacs). Son of the late Charles and Lillian Stein. Brother of Dr. Marjorie L. Stein. Son-in-law of Blanche Barasch Weiss and the late David Weiss. Brother-in-law of Howard and Karen Weiss, uncle of Bara and Alex Tisch, Sabrina Weiss and Adam Weiss. A loved and respected friend and advisor. Graduate of Columbia Univerity School of Law, 1965; LL.M. 1967. Lecturer in law, Columbia University School of Law, 1967-1969. Attorney-advisor, Office of Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy, U.S. Treasury Department, Washington, DC, 1969 - 1971. Partner, Roberts & Holland, 1975-1991. Founder and Partner, Stein, Shiers & Goldsmith, 1992-present. Funeral services will be held September 13, at 11:45, at Riverside Memorial Chapel.
        STEIN--Malcolm L. The staff and Board of Trustees of the Jewish Communal Fund mourn with sorrow the passing of Malcolm L. Stein, JCF's attorney for over twenty years. Malcolm was a man of extraordinary integrity and character. His professional dedication and his deep devotion to his family have created a legacy for generations. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire Stein and Weiss families. Andrew H. Tisch, President Harold R. Handler, Chair of the Exec. Committee Susan F. Dickman, Exec. V.P.
        STEIN--Malcolm L. The attorneys and staff of Stein Shiers & Goldsmith mourn the passing of our founding partner, esteemed colleague and dear friend, Malcolm L. Stein, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Harriet, and his children, Jonathan and Alison. His wise counsel and generous spirit will always guide us.
        STEIN--Malcolm L. The management of Bottom Line Information, Inc. deeply regrets the demise of our good friend and thoughtful advisor. Our sincere condolences to his wonderful family and close associates. Martin Edelston, President Boardroom Inc.
        STEIN--Malcolm L. Our family mourns the death of Malcolm Stein, trusted friend and associate of a great many years. His thoughtful counsel, caring and true loyalty will be greatly missed by all of us. June Noble Larkin & Family
        STEIN--Malcolm. A life fully lived, but too short. We will remember you forever, dear friend. Adrienne and Bob Sharon
      