
        CALIGOR--Leopold and Judith. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute and Society mourn the sudden and untimely deaths of our esteemed graduate, Leopold Caligor, Ph.D. and our distinguished colleague, Judith Caligor, Ph.D. Dr. Leopold Caligor became a faculty member at White in 1959 and had sustained the Institute with his acumen, creativity and limitless vigor for 45 years. He wrote numerous papers and co-authored the book, ''Dreams and Symbols'' with Rollo May and ''Clinical Prospectives on the Supervision of Psychoanalysis and Psychotherapy'' with Philip Bromberg and James Meltzer. Lee was currently Director of Psychoanalytic Curriculum to which he made the kinds of penetrating and innovative contributions that made him a much sought-after psychoanalyst, supervisor and teacher. He shared his knowledge with abundant generosity, and his profound warmth was always in evidence. Lee's robust investment in his areas of expertise was contagious and students were always eager for the courses on dreams that he taught at White and elsewhere. A pioneer in the field, Leopold Caligor co-founded and co-directed the Institute's Union Therapy Project 40 years ago, and participated significantly in the creation of the Tel Aviv University's program in psychoanalysis. Lee also directed his energies to founding the APA's Division of Psychoanalysis in which he continued to participate in essential roles. In the course of his long and devoted tenure at the Institute he touched the lives of many. He was an inspired and inspiring mentor for younger colleagues. He could be demanding but he always showed kindness and concern. He looked for excellence but was patient with process. He was an alive, keenly sensitive presence at meetings where one could count on his giving, sooner or later, a well reasoned but passionate comment. He was one to take a stand and didn't like to equivocate. With all his being he showed us that he loved the Institute. We shall miss him sorely. Our love and deep condolences to the Caligor's beloved family, and to their friends, colleagues and patients. Joerg Bose, M.D., Director White Institute Charles C. Harrington, Ph.D., President, Board of Trustees Gurmeet Kanwal, M.D., Pres. White Society
      