
        BAILEY--Lynn Gordon, Jr. (''Gordie'') of Dallas, TX died tragically in his sleep the morning of September 17, 2004, at 18 years of age in Boulder, CO where he had recently enrolled as a freshman at the University of Colorado, Leeds School of Business. In his short time at the University, Gordie had been named to the club lacrosse team and had become a pledge at Chi Psi Fraternity. Gordie went to Colorado after three years at Deerfield Academy in Deerfield, MA where he excelled in athletics and drama. In his senior year he was co-captain of the varsity football team. He also started at defense on the school's New England championship lacrosse team. At graduation he received the Class of 2004 Award of Excellence in Drama. Gordie mentored younger students as a Proctor in an underclass dormitory. Prior to Deerfield, Gordie attended St. Marks School of Texas in Dallas where he developed his love for football and lacrosse. He especially enjoyed his time in Sun Valley, ID visiting his father where he loved to snowboard, fly fish, hike and play golf. He also vacationed frequently in Jamaica and was a huge fan of its Reggae music. Gordie taught himself to play the guitar, which had become a passion. The many people whose lives he touched remember Gordie for his intelligence, leadership, compassion, humor, happiness and an uplifting attitude towards everyone and everything he encountered. All who knew him felt his joy for life. His goal to be a positive role model was enabled by his gift of putting a smile on everyone's face. At Deerfield, Gordie and some friends started the ''Hug Club,'' just one of the many legendary ''Gordieisms.'' Gordie cherished his special relationship with his closest friend, Lily. Gordie is survived by his extended family including his mother, Leslie Herrlinger Lanahan; father, Lynn Gordon Bailey; step-mother Claire Bailey; step-father, Michael Lanahan; sisters Bibb Bailey and Lily Lanahan; grandparents Marcia and Richard Rorick; Kim and Edward F. Herrlinger; W. Wallace Lanahan, Jr. and greatgrandmother, Ruth Mills Van Every. Gordie also has four step-brothers, five uncles, five aunts, nine first cousins and a nephew. There will be a memorial gathering at Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, MA on Sunday, September 26th at 1:00pm. A memorial service was held in Dallas at St. Mark's School of Texas. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, donations be sent to the newly established Gordie Bailey Memorial Fund, Deerfield, MA, 01342
      