
        RUTTENBERG--Derald H. 88, was born in Lafayette, IN, on February 17, 1916, and died on September 19, 2004, in New York City. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1937, Yale Law School in 1940, and Harvard University Graduate School of Business in 1942. In 1943, he entered the armed forces and served in the European Theater of Operations in the U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey; he was discharged as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force in 1945. Following his honorable discharge, he owned and ran various closely-held foundry and manufacturing companies in the midwest. He later moved to New York City and became Chairman of ITE-Circuit Breaker Co. in 1967. In 1969 he became President and Chief Executive Officer of Studebaker-Worthington, Inc. and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1971, in which capacities he served until 1980. He then returned to private investing through Tinicum Incorporated, his family owned investment firm. He is survived by his wife Janet of 53 years and their four children John, Eric, Kathy and Hattie, as well as eight grandchildren. Shiva will be held Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday from 6PM-8PM. For more information please call 212-446-9304. A memorial service will be held at a later date to be announced. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent to either Yale Law School or the Derald H. Ruttenberg Cancer Center at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City.
        RUTTENBERG -- Derald H. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the passing of Derald H. Ruttenberg, who served with distinction as a Trustee and Honorary Trustee for the past 35 years. Mr. Ruttenberg's personal philanthropy and the generosity of his family to Mount Sinai have been extraordinary, comprising the creation of the Ruttenberg Cancer Center, the Ruttenberg Treatment Center and the Ruttenberg Floor in the Guggenheim Pavilion, and important long-time support for many other health and scientific programs. Derald Ruttenberg's leadership and commitment to health care were inspiring, and his munificence will long be remembered. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Janet, to his son Eric, our esteemed Trustee, to his daughters, Katherine and Hattie, to his son John and to the entire Ruttenberg Family. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., President and CEO
        RUTTENBERG -- Derald H. The Board of Governors and Membership of Deepdale Golf Club note with sorrow the untimely passing of our esteemed member. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the bereaved family. John D. Martin, President
      