
        PIEL--Gerard. The Board of Directors of the Marconi Foundation at Columbia University celebrates the life of Gerard Piel, a long-standing friend and director. A public intellectual, scientific pioneer and founder/publisher of Scientific American, Gerry interpreted the nuances of 20th century science for both citizens and scientists through his many books, articles and publications. The recipient of 20 honorary degrees and honors, including the George Polk Award, Arches of Science Award and Rosenberg Medal of the University of Chicago, Gerry served as president of the American Association of the Advancement of Science and member of the Board of Overseers of Harvard University. We join his wife, Eleanor Jackson Piel, and children, Eleanor and Jonathan, in remembering Gerard Piel's humanity, humor and sagacity. John Jay Iselin, President, Marconi Foundation at Columbia University
        PIEL--Gerard. The Trustees and staff of the American Museum of Natural History are deeply saddened by the death of Gerard Piel, who served as Museum Trustee and Honorary Trustee since 1955. Gerry gave generously of his time to many areas of the Museum's work, but his special passion was for the Museum's scientific endeavors. His wisdom, focus, breadth of knowledge and insightful intellect will be missed and he will be remembered with great affection for the twinkle in his eye, his self-deprecating sense of humor, and his love for the institution. We send our deepest sympathies to his wife Eleanor and the entire Piel family. Lewis W. Bernard, Chairman Ellen V. Futter, President
        PIEL--Gerard. The Women's City Club of New York mourns the passing of our supporter, Civic Spirit Honoree and spouse of our Director and Counsel, Eleanor Jackson Piel. Mr. Piel embodied the same commitment to civic causes that has motivated The WCCNY for 90 years. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Blanche E. Lawton, President
        PIEL--Gerard. The Board of The Fortune Society mourns the passing of Gerard Piel. Our deeply felt condolences to his wife, Eleanor Jackson Piel, our long time Trustee, their children & their families. Roland Nicholson Jr., Chair JoAnne Page, Exec Director
      