
        SACKS--David G. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of David G. Sacks, a beloved leader and friend. Respected for his guidance and wisdom, David served as president of UJAFederation from 1989 to 1992. As a leader within our network of agencies, he was president of Westchester Jewish Community Services and a member of the board of the 92nd Street Y. David also served as chairman and president of the Jewish Outreach Institute, as well as on the board of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Jewish Communal Fund. David's concern for humanitarian causes will undoubtedly live on in the continuing efforts of his family. David's devotion to the Jewish community was shared with his wife, Marcella Rosen, who like David, was committed to the development of future Jewish leaders. Through their involvement, they have strengthened our ability to serve those in need, making an enduring impact on the Jewish community and all New Yorkers. We extend our deepest sympathies to Marcella; to David's children: Jonathan, Deborah, Judith, and Joshua; and to the entire Sacks and Rosen families. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        SACKS--David G. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn with a heavy heart the passing of David Sacks, our long time Board member, and beloved husband of Marcella Rosen, also Board member of The 92nd Street Y. David's warmth, care and humanity will long be remembered. The entire Y family mourns the loss of David's deep devotion to the Jewish community and the world at large. David joined the 92nd Street Y Board in 1992 and greatly contributed intellecturally and spiritually to our Bronfman Center for Jewish Life. David also spent many years on the Board of Directors of the UJA-Federation serving as the President from 1989 to 1992. We extend our deepest sympathy to Marcella, and the entire Sacks and Rosen families. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Michael Goldstein, President Matthew Bronfman, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        SACKS--David. On behalf of the entire Heschel School community we mourn the loss of our close friend and the husband of devoted trustee, Marcella Rosen Sacks. David was an esteemed and well known leader in the Jewish community when he took an interest in our school through Marcella's work. He was a man of passion and great integrity. We will miss him. We extend our sincere sympathies to Marcella, his children and grandchildren and the extended Sacks and Rosen families. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Alisa R. Doctoroff, President Roanna Shorofsky, Head of School
      