
        SCHEUER -- Walter. The Trustees, dancers and staff of the Paul Taylor Dance Foundation mourn the death of our beloved Walter Scheuer, Executive Vice President of the Board. A deeply devoted friend to Paul Taylor, Wally was the longest-serving Trustee in the 50-year history of the Taylor Company, having joined the Board in 1978. A philanthropist of extraordinary generosity, he played a leading role in such major initiatives as the Repertory Preservation Project and New Works Fund, and underwrote the Company's first tour to the People's Republic of China in 1996. He was also the creative force behind the documentary ''Dancemaker,'' which has played a pivotal role in the Company's success. We will miss Wally's warmth, enthusiasm and friendship. We send our heartfelt condolences to Marge and his entire family. Paul Taylor Chairman of the Board Norton Belknap President of the Board Wallace Chappell Executive Director
        SCHEUER--Walter. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Walter Scheuer, who was deeply devoted to the Jewish community, humanitarian causes, and cultural arts initiatives. Walter upheld the Scheuer family's commitment to tikkun olam and has made an indelible impact through his generosity and vision. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife Marge; to his children: David, Jeffery, Susan, and Judith; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        SCHEUER--Walter. It is with deep sadness that Citizen's Committee for Children of New York mourns the passing of Walter Scheuer, husband of longtime Board member Marge Scheuer. Wally and Marge have long recognized the critical need to advocate for New York City children, and have provided wisdom, leadership and generous support to CCC in its efforts. Our heartfelt condolences to Marge, David, Jeffrey, Susan, Judith and the entire Scheuer family. Heidi Stamas, Chairman Judith A. Garson, Esq., Pres. Gail Nayowith, Exec. Dir.
        SCHEUER -- Walter. The Board and employees of Sterling Capital Corporation mourn the loss of their beloved Chairman and friend, Walter Scheuer. Wally's warmth, wit and compassion for others will be greatly missed. He was one of a kind both as a man and as a leader who enriched the lives of those fortunate enough to have known him. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Marge; children David, Jeffrey, Susan and Judith; and his grandchildren. Wayne Reisner, President
        SCHEUER--Walter. All of us at the Bridgehampton Chamber Music Festival sadly mourn the loss of our great friend, Walter Scheuer. From the outset, Wally's inspiration, encouragement and generosity helped make our dream a reality. We will miss him. We send our love and heartfelt sympathy to Marge and the entire family. Marya Martin, Artist Director Ken Davidson, Chairman
        SCHEUER--Wally. We mourn our dear friend, Wally, and will always be grateful for his visionary gift of ''Mao To Mozart,'' a unique document which changed our lives. We will always remember his love, generosity and loyal support of our family. Our hearts go out to Marge and family. Shira, Michael, David, and Vera Stern
      