
        DONNELL--John Randolph. Of Palm Beach. Oilman, banker and philanthropist, died at his home in Newport, RI, September 8, 2004. He was 92 years old. In recent years he has divided his time, between homes in Newport and Palm Beach, FL. Mr. Donnell was born June 22, 1912 in Findlay, OH, second of three sons born to Otto Dewey and Glenn McClelland Donnell. His grandfather James C. Donnell founded the Ohio Oil Co., which was then renamed the Marathon Oil Co. in 1962. He attended Findlay city schools and received a Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering from Case Institute of Technology, now Case Western Reserve University, in Cleveland, Ohio. Thereafter he attended the Harvard Business School. Mr. Donnell joined the Ohio Oil Co. in 1936 as special representative in the executive office. In 1954 he became a director and vice president in charge of supply and transportation. From 1961 until 1966, he was responsible for the company's worldwide activities with the title of president, of international operations. He retained his interest in the oil industry throughout his retirement, and was a member of the American Petroleum Institute, until his death. Mr. Donnell was elected a director of the First National Bank of Findlay in 1939, and succeeded his father as chairman of the board in 1947, serving in that capacity until it was sold to the Fifth Third Bank of Ohio. He was also a director of the Toledo Trust Company. Long active in civic affairs, he was president of the Findlay Board of Education. He also chaired the Hancock County War Finance Committee during World War II. He was also a past president of the Blanchard Valley Hospital Association and the Findlay Country Club. In 1982, he received a Distinguished Volunteer Award from the United Way of Hancock County in recognition of his leaadership of its initial campaign. He was also a founding member of the Findlay Skeet Club. In 1954, he was elected to the board of Case Institute Technology, and in 1967, to the board of its successor, Case Western Reserve University. He established the Donnell Institute Professorship at Case to honor his father, Otto, and his son, John, Jr., both Case graduates. In 1995 he received the Case Gold Medal, highest award of the Case Alumni Association, for his service to the university and the community at large. In honor of his deceased stepdaughter, he funded the building of the Nancy Caraboolad Arts Center, in Hathaway Brown School for Girls, in Shaker Heights, Ohio. Mr. Donnell received honorary doctorates from Salem College in Salem, West Virginia, and from the University of Findlay in Ohio. He was very interested and involved in committees, of the Winterthur Musuem in Delaware and the National Gallery in Washington, DC. He was a board member in Palm Beach of the Society for the Four Arts. He is a honorary board member of the Toledo Museum of Art. Of all his interest, Mr. Donnell was most devoted to the Boy Scouts. He was awarded the Silver Antelope, the Silver Beaver, and the Silver Buffalo, the National Council's highest honor, in 1958. In his later years he was on the board of the World Scout Foundation, and for his service, was awarded the Bronze Wolf, the organization's highest award, for his service. He was a wine connoisseur and had one of the most important wine cellars in this country. He was the Grand Senechal of Toledo Sous-Commanderie of the Confrerie des Chevaliers du Tastevin, for eight years and in Ohio he belonged to the Cleveland and Toledo chapters. He was also a member of the Palm Beach chapter. In sports, he loved golf, fishing, shooting and croquet. He was an avid supporter of the Newport Croquet Club and he was on the national level. He was on the Croquet Foundation of America's board of directors. He was inducted into their National Croquet Hall of Fame in 1989. In Newport, he belonged to the Clambake Club, The Reading Room and the Spouting Rock Beach Association. In Palm Beach, he belonged to the Bath and Tennis Club, The Everglades Club, The Beach Club and The Old Guard. In Cleveland, Ohio, he belonged to the Union Club, the Country Club and the Chagrin Valley Hunt Club. In Pennsylvania, the Rolling Rock Club. His interests in Newport were the Newport Art Museum, The Redwood Library and The Preservation Society. Mr. Donnell married Margaret Louise Watt of Long Beach, California on February 1, 1939. Mrs. Donnell died in 1980. He married Maureen N. Caraboolad of Shaker Heights, Ohio, on July 31, 1981, and she survives, as well as do five children from his first marriage, John R. Jr., of Atlanta, GA, Ann D. Davis of Tiburon, CA, William W. of New York, NY, Thomas B. of Findlay and Richard H. of Topsham, ME. Also surviving are his three stepsons, Geoffrey S. Caraboolad of Boston, MA and Edgartown, MA, Michael S. Caraboolad of Gates Mills, Ohio, and Richard S. Caraboolad of Clevland, Ohio, and the Late Nancy Caraboolad Hayes. He also leaves six grandchildren, eight great-grandchildren and six step-grandchildren. His brothers James and Dewey, preceded him in death. A family memorial service will be held in Findlay, Ohio on September 18, 2004 at The First Presbyterian Church. A memorial service for all his friends, will take place in Palm Beach, Florida on Thanksgiving weekend. Memorial contributions may be sent to the Gulf Stream Boy Scouts of America, 8335 North Military Trail, FL, 33484. The Society of the Four Arts, 2 Four Arts Plaza, Palm Beach, FL, 33480.
      