
        HOCHFELDER--J. Gene. 82, patriarch of the Hochfelder Family. War hero, businessman, philanthropist, trusted friend, advisor to many. Born in NYC April 27, 1922. Died peacefully in his sleep at home September 20, 2004. Raised in Cedarhurst, NY, graduated Lawrence H.S. 1939, the Wharton School at University of Pennsylvannia, 1943. Enlisted U.S. Marine Corps in 1943, served with the 5th Marine Division Iwo Jima, Guadalcanal, and Guam, Capt. Hochfelder was awarded the Silver Star, Bronze Star and Presidential Citation for bravery and heroism in WW II's bloodiest battle. Predeceased by parents Lillian and Jake and beloved wife of 39 years, Patricia Beldoch. Founder of Bogene Closet Accesories, and later, Chairman of Beldoch Ind. Honorary Chairman, Brahman Management. Retired 1995. Former President National Notions Assoc., Olympic Tower Condo and Glen Head C.C. Industry Chairman and honoree UJA, ADL, Israel Bonds. Survived by his five proud sons: Jim (and Ellen), Tom (and Lynda), John (and Janet), Andrew (and Patricia), Peter (and Stacy); and his beloved wife of 20 years, Carol. Also survived by 13 adoring grandchildren: Amy and Scott Smith, Adam and Amy Hochfelder, Lauren, David, Jason, Julie, Josh, Alyssa, Robyn, Jake, Harrison, Charles and Lily; and four greatgrandchildren: Samantha, Hunter, Henry and Preston. Brother and life-long friend to Fred and Barbara; adored uncle to Maggie and Joanna. Brother-in-law and advisor to Michael Beldoch and Philip Hanan. Services Tuesday, September 21 at 12 noon at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th St., NYC. Contributions may be made in his honor to UJA and/or ADL.
        HOCHFELDER -- Gene. Tough as nails but soft on the inside, it was our honor and pleasure to get to know you these last 15 years. You were one of the last of the Greatest Generation, a true American hero. From the University of Pennsylvania to Iwo Jima, you were someone we all looked up to. We are certain the boys know how lucky they were to have you as their father. You have left a legacy of service to one's country, honesty, integrity and honor. You will be missed by all those who were lucky to know you. Our sympathy to the entire Hochfelder clan. Amelia and Richard A. Bernstein Bradley Bernstein Jennifer and Gregg Rothkin
        HOCHFELDER--J. Gene. The Board of Directors and Membership of Glen Head Country Club announce with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed honorary member, former President and Board Member J. Gene Hochfelder. Our sympathy is extended to the bereaved family Ted Tashlik, President
        HOCHFELDER--Gene. A modern hero who did it his way. He will be sorely missed by all who knew and loved him. Lucy and Richard Halperin
        HOCHFELDER--J. Gene. A beloved and admired man by all who knew him. He leaves behind a legacy of greatness. Love, The Franklins and the Weins
      