
        HOENE--Burkhard. 46, beloved son, brother, and adored friend of many, died peacefully at home on September 21, 2004 of pancreatic cancer. Born on December 10, 1957, he was raised in New Hampshire. In 1981, he graduated from UVM and began his career in fashion at Brooks Brothers. He was founder and designer of the Espionage clothing label and also helped establish the denim division of Harley Davidson. He founded Digital Fashion in 1993 to deliver expertise in pioneering digital media technologies in fashion. In 1995, he founded Fashion Planet Inc., as a joint venture between Digital Fashion and Digital Planet. His extraordinary photographic work that enriches humanity's visual journey, together with his beautiful and inspiring poetry, are his greatest achievements. He will be missed by all who love him. He is survived by his mother Ursula R. Hoene, siblings Eberhard, Barbara, Christina, Max, and their families. Donations may be made in memory of Burkhard Hoene, Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, research of Dr. G. Abu-Alfa, PO Box 27106, NY, NY 10087. Services at the Riverside Church, September 29, at 3:00 PM.
        HOENE--Burkhard. Our dearest Burk. You have taught us the definition of unconditional love, compassion and generosity. You have given these gifts to the world in purest forms. You were our friend, our family, and our guardian angel. You showed us the ability of a man of great intellect to also be humble. It was a privilege to have known you to the very end, when you showed us the greatest example of dignity we have ever witnessed. It is difficult to say good bye, so (auvoir chere amie). Condolences to family Hoene. With love, Laura and Julian
        HOENE--Burkhard. With profound sorrow, we mourn our dear friend Burke. We will always be grateful for the countless ways in which he made our lives better. Our thoughts are with his family and his friends. His passion for life and his great friendship will always be remembered by us. We bid him farewell and send him our love and affection to surround him on his great journey forward. We will always miss him. Brian, Lavinia and Ophelia
        HOENE -- Burkhard. Dear (Uncle) Burkie, we will miss you to infinity. Thank you for your boundless love, faith, protection and friendship. Oceans of love. Condolences to family Hoene. Simone and Emma-Victoria Alexandre and Elizabeth
        HOENE -- Burkhard. Burky, we love you always. Stephane, Maria, Maia, and Artur
      