
        PALL--David B. Ph.D., Born April 2, 1914 in Thunder Bay, Ontario, died peacefully September 21, 2004 after a long illness. Loving husband of the late Josephine B. Pall and the late Helen R. Pall. Beloved father of Ellen Pall, Jane Block and Abigail Weinshank and the late Stephanie Pall and William Pall. Father-inlaw of Richard Dicker, Fred Weinshank and Olivia Pall. Grandfather of Stephen (Lauren), Kathryn (Bob), Elizabeth, Hillary, Alex, KK, Scott and Ben. Great-grandfather of Kameron, Mikayla, Adam, Helen and Brian. Founder of Pall Corporation, inventor, innovator in fine filtration systems, winner of the National Medal of Technology for his signficant contributions to science and medicine. Philanthropist, generous supporter of the arts and medicine, avid hiker, skier, music-lover. He was a brilliant man whose contributions to society left the world a better place. Services today, Thursday September 23rd at 2pm at Sunset Chapels, 1285 Northern Blvd, Manhasset. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Alzheimer's Association, Long Island Chapter, 3281 Veterans Memorial Highway, Suite E13, Ronkonkoma, NY 11779
        PALL--David B., PhD. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System is saddened by the passing of David B. Pall, PhD, the founder and former chairman of the Pall Corp. A life trustee of the health system, Dr. Pall joined the North Shore University Hospital Board of Trustees in 1970 and was highly regarded throughout the community for his philanthropic activity. We are eternally grateful for his commitment and generosity to the North Shore-LIJ Health System. He was an extraordinary businessman and a true gentleman. We will miss him. We extend our condolences to his family and friends. Michael Dowling, President & CEO Daniel de Roulet, Chairman North Shore-LIJ Health System
        PALL--David B. I am deeply saddened by the death of David B. Pall who was a good friend and intellectual mentor for over 30 years. My thoughts are with David's family. This extraordinary man enriched our lives and he will be greatly missed. Sandy Schlesinger
      