
        HOCHFELDER--J. Gene. 82, patriarch of the Hochfelder Family. War hero, businessman, philanthropist, trusted friend, advisor to many. Born in NYC April 27, 1922. Died peacefully in his sleep at home September 20, 2004. Raised in Cedarhurst, NY, graduated Lawrence H.S. 1939, the Wharton School at University of Pennsylvannia, 1943. Enlisted U.S. Marine Corps in 1943, served with the 5th Marine Division Iwo Jima, Guadalcanal, and Guam, Capt. Hochfelder was awarded the Silver Star, Bronze Star and Presidential Citation for bravery and heroism in WW II's bloodiest battle. Predeceased by parents Lillian and Jake and beloved wife of 39 years, Patricia Beldoch. Founder of Bogene Closet Accesories, and later, Chairman of Beldoch Ind. Honorary Chairman, Brahman Management. Retired 1995. Former President National Notions Assoc., Olympic Tower Condo and Glen Head C.C. Industry Chairman and honoree UJA, ADL, Israel Bonds. Survived by his five proud sons: Jim (and Ellen), Tom (and Lynda), John (and Janet), Andrew (and Patricia), Peter (and Stacy); and his beloved wife of 20 years, Carol. Also survived by 13 adoring grandchildren: Amy and Scott Smith, Adam and Amy Hochfelder, Lauren, David, Jason, Julie, Josh, Alyssa, Robyn, Jake, Harrison, Charles and Lily; and four greatgrandchildren: Samantha, Hunter, Henry and Preston. Brother and life-long friend to Fred and Barbara; adored uncle to Maggie and Joanna. Brother-in-law and advisor to Michael Beldoch and Philip Hanan. Services Tuesday, September 21 at 12 noon at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th St., NYC. Contributions may be made in his honor to UJA and/or ADL.
        HOCHFELDER--Gene. Peter, our deepest sympathy on the loss of your Dad. We love and respect your father, Gene, the valiant Marine. His memory will live in our hearts forever. We wish your entire family strength at this time. Arthur and Barbara, Scot, Marissa, Stefanie, Eric and Cooper
        HOCHFELDER -- Gene. Tough as nails but soft on the inside, it was our honor and pleasure to get to know you these last 15 years. You were one of the last of the Greatest Generation, a true American hero. From the University of Pennsylvania to Iwo Jima, you were someone we all looked up to. We are certain the boys know how lucky they were to have you as their father. You have left a legacy of service to one's country, honesty, integrity and honor. You will be missed by all those who were lucky to know you. Our sympathy to the entire Hochfelder clan. Amelia and Richard A. Bernstein Bradley Bernstein Jennifer and Gregg Rothkin
        HOCHFELDER--J. Gene. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of J. Gene Hochfelder, beloved father of James and Peter Hochfelder, treasured leaders whose dedication and generosity has helped renew Jewish life in New York and around the world. We extend our deepest sympathies to Gene's children: Andrew, and his wife Patricia; James, and his wife Ellen; John, and his wife Janet; Peter, and his wife Stacy; Thomas, and his wife Lynda; to his grandchildren; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        HOCHFELDER--J. Gene. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of J. Gene Hochfelder, longtime ADL friend and supporter and beloved husband of Carol, a member of ADL's NY Regional Board and past Chair of our Women's Division. Gene's commitment to ADL's agenda is a legacy he leaves to his five sons. We extend our sincerest condolences to Carol, his sons and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National Director Benjamin Sax, Chair, NY Regional Board Joel J. Levy, NY Regional Director
        HOCHFELDER -- J. Gene. 1922-2004. Brahman Capital and the Kuflik and Sobel Families deeply mourn the loss of our Honorary Chairman of the Board, role model and friend. Gene provided invaluable counsel in matters of business, and we will always feel his inspirational presence in our office and in our lives. Our love and prayers go out to Peter and Stacy, his brothers, Carol, and all the grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Mitchell Kuflik and Robert Sobel, Partners, Brahman Capital Corp.
        HOCHFELDER--J. Gene, Gene was a man of valor, honor, patriotism and intelligence whose presence will not be forgotten. Our sincerest condolences to Carol, Jim, Tom, John, Andrew, Peter and their families. With love, Patti and Marty
        HOCHFELDER--J. Gene. A beloved and admired man by all who knew him. He leaves behind a legacy of greatness. Love, The Franklins and the Weins
        HOCHFELDER--Gene. Peter and Stacy, our thoughts are with you and the whole family. Debbie & Michael Doppelt
      