
        THORNBROUGH -- Albert Adam passed away September 8th as a result of complications from a stroke he suffered six weeks ago. He had just celebrated his 92nd birthday. He was born on the plains in Lakin, Kansas and lived there through the Dust Bowl and the Depression. After graduating from Kansas State University in 1934 with high honors, he began graduate studies at Harvard which led to a Master's Degree in Agricultural Economics before WWII intervened. He served in Washington in the Office of Price Administration and the Army Corps of Engineers during the War, eventually joining the Reserves as a Lieutenant Colonel in 1946. His business career began with Harry Ferguson Inc., the farm equipment manufacturer, in Detroit in 1946. After the company merged with Massey Harris in 1953, he advanced to the President of the combined entity in 1956. He became Chief Executive Officer in 1966 and served in that role until his retirement in 1978. He presided over Massey's global expansion in the 60's and 70's. During much of this period he and his family resided in Toronto, Canada. However, he considered Boca Raton his home for the last 40 years. During his career and his retirement he served as a director and trustee of numerous boards including the University of Guelph, Lynn University, the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, the Farm Equipment Institute and the Royal Palm Yacht and Country Club. Mr. Thornbrough, devoted husband for 61 years to Virginia Thornbrough, is survived by his three children: Susan Thornbrough Staiger and Jon Staiger; Wayne Thornbrough and his wife Barbara; Grant Thornbrough and his wife Diana. In addition, he leaves six adult grandchildren and one new great-grandchild. He also leaves behind his beloved Marlene Fay whose companionship enriched his later years. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, September 26th at 2PM at the First Presbyterian Church of Boca Raton. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Albert Thornbrough Scholarship Fund at Lynn University, 3601 North Military Trail, Boca Raton, Florida 33431, or to the charity of your choice. His path from the plains, to the highest levels of academia, to successful global businessman while serving his country and community has been an inspiration to his family and friends around the world.
      