
        HUDNER--M. Ripley, aged 23, died on September 6 when the vehicle he was driving struck a curbstone in Tiverton, R.I. and veered out of control. Death was instantaneous. ''Rip'' Hudner was born on January 10, 1981 in New York City to Michael S. and Hope Freeman Hudner, of Little Compton and Providence, R.I. He attended the Episcopal and the Buckley Schools in Manhattan through seventh grade. He attended Moses Brown School, Providence, for grades eight and nine. He graduated from Phillips Academy, Andover, Massachusetts, In the class of 1999, where he wrote an opinion column for the school paper and hosted a DJ and commentary show on the school radio station. He was also an alumnus of Hurricane Island Outward Bound School. He was accepted at Harvard College with the class of 2003, but was never able to attend due to developing health issues. He studied at Oxford Tutorial College in England, cooperated in establishing an eco-tourism project in Fiji, interned in the Singapore office of the family shipping business, and studied for three semesters at Harvard Extension School. He loved to travel. Some of his experiences included riding a camel at the Great Wall of China at age three, he spent the Millennium New Year's in the Antarctic, and he traveled by rail through Europe when studying in England. He was an avid backpacker with a particular love of Acadia National Park in Maine, and loved being on the water. He participated in the Newport - to - Bermuda race in 1992, when he was the youngest person in the fleet at age eleven, and again in 1996. In 2000, he sailed with his family from Newport to Ireland. He was an ardent practioner of yoga and meditation and had a deep and abiding love of music. Eventually, in 2001, he was diagnosed with a several forms of thought disorder. He struggled incessantly to overcome these issues and had made considerable progress at the time of his death. He was committed to living a fulfilling life. In addition to his parents, he is survived by his sister, Bay Adams Hudner, a freshman at Harvard. He is the grandson of the late Harold K. and Dorothy S. Hudner of Swansea, Massachusetts and the late Charles W. and Carla P. Freeman of Providence and Nassau. A memorial service in celebration of the life and spirit of Rip Hudner will be held on Friday, September 10 at 11:00 at the Sakonnet Vineyard, Little Compton. Attendees are encouraged to share their memories of Rip Hudner at the service. The family asks that in lieu of flowers, contributions be made to the Rip Hudner Memorial Fund at Moses Brown School, 250 Lloyd Avenue, Providence, RI 02906-2398 or in his memory to the National Association For Mental Illness (NAMI).
      