
        BERNSTEIN--Sidney J. On August 30 at 100 years of age. Husband of the late Anita M. Survived by his children Elaine, Paul and Anne. Daughter - in - law Barbara. Grandchildren Erika Bernstein-Kelble, Jeremy and Matthew Bernstein, Jeff Kelble, Julia Gruenewald-Bernstein. Born in Brooklyn in 1904 Mr. Bernstein attended Boys High and Columbia College, graduating in 1924. In 1925 he founded Sidney J. Bernstein Inc. in which he was active until age 95. He served in the 119th Batallion in the Pacific during WWII. He was Vice President of The Educational Foundation of FIT, Treasurer of The American Committee of Shenkar College in Israel. President of the Midtown Realty Association from 1960 to 1977. Raconteur, dancer, philosopher, Beethoven lover, loving and beloved friend, gentleman. Services will be held 11:45AM Friday September 3 at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to The American Committee for Shenkar College, 855 Avenue of the Americas, NY, NY 10001.
        BERNSTEIN--Sidney J. The American Committee for Shenkar College in Israel deeply mourns the passing of our Founding Board Member, Treasurer Emeritus, generous benefactor and spirited leader. Patron and Founder of the Sidney and Anita Bernstein Library on the campus in Ramat Gan, Israel, he was part of the creation of the Bennett and Pauline Rose Archives housing historical garments and textiles. Since the founding of the American Committee in 1971, Sidney J. Bernstein was committed to the upbuilding of the College adding to its importance in the educational picture of the State of Israel. Beloved by so many, he will be sorely missed by all who had the opportunity to know him. Heartfelt condolences to his daughters Anne L. Bernstein, our devoted Board Member, Elaine S. Bernstein, son Paul Bernstein (Barbara) and to their families. Bruce Pernick, President Charlotte Fainblatt, Exec. Dir.
        BERNSTEIN--Sidney J. Shenkar College of Engineering and Design, Ramat Gan, Israel, records with great sadness the passing of Sidney J. Bernstein, devoted friend, benefactor and Governor. He was beloved by faculty and students who knew him over the years on his many visits to the College. The Sidney and Anita Bernstein Library, a vital part of our campus, outstanding of its kind in Israel, is also used by industry and academic institutions. An Honorary Fellow of the College, his support and steadfast dedication provide a shining example for generations to come. Deepest condolences to Anne L. Bernstein, Governor, Elaine S. Bernstein, Paul Bernstein and their families. David Pernick, Chancellor R. Stephen Rubin, Chair Board of Governors Prof. Amotz Weinberg, Pres. Moshe Golos, Vice Chair
        BERNSTEIN--Sidney J. The Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries mourns the loss and celebrates the life of Sidney J. Bernstein, the longest serving member of the Fashion Institute of Technology's Support Foundation. His legacy of 50 years of commitment and dedication to FIT is inspiration to us all. John J. Pomerantz, Chrmn Joyce F. Brown, CEO
      