
        HARRIS--David F., 84, of 352 Canaan Road, ''Fairfield'', Salisbury, CT, and Fishers Island, NY, died at home on the afternoon of October 21, 2004. He was the husband of Jane M. Harris. Mr. Harris was born in Geneva, NY on April 18, 1920, the son of the late Laura (Houghton) and Ieuan Harris. He attended the 8th grade at Salisbury School and completed four years at The Hotchkiss School, graduating with the class of 1938. Entering Yale University in the fall of 1938, he graduated with his class in 1942, having majored in Spanish. Entering the military shortly thereafter, he completed O.C.S., graduating as a 2nd Lt. Infantry, in the Army. He trained extensively with the 10th Mountain Division at Camp Hale, Colorado, and he was severly wounded while participating in an action in the Aleutian Islands. After a period of recuperation, he rejoined the 10th Mountain Division and he participated fully in the Italian Campaign. Upon discharge in the summer of 1945, he had risen to the rank of Captain, Infantry, and aside from receiving the Purple Heart, he was also awarded the Bronze Star. Mr. Harris subsequently attended the Harvard Business School, earning an M.B.A. and upon returning to the Salisbury area, he became a faculty member at Salisbury School, teaching Spanish, Mathematics, and coaching skiing. Next, he entered business as a private investor, but he maintained a strong link to the Salisbury School, serving as a trustee and, for many years, as an active trustee emeritus. As both a trustee and trustee emeritus he was instrumental in raising support for major improvements to the Salisbury School campus. Mr. Harris was also the major contributor in the conversion of the Headmaster's house into office space at the Hotchkiss School; that conversion is named Harris House in honor of his brother, John H. Harris. Additionally, for many years, Mr. Harris served on the board of the Sharon Hospital. In addition to his wife, survivors include his three children, David F. Harris Jr., of Carlisle, MA; G. Anne Harris Milliken of Salisbury, CT; and John M. Harris of Manchester, MA; and three grandchildren. Funeral services will be held at 11:00 AM October 29th, in St. John's Church, Main St. Salisbury, CT 06068. Memorial contributions may be made to the Salisbury School, The Hotchkiss School, or Yale University. For more information call the NewkirkPalmer Funeral Home, phone (860) 824-7350.
      