
        REEVE--Christopher. It is with an overwhelming sense of loss that the faculty and staff of the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine note the passing of Christopher Reeve. He was an inspirational leader in creating the resources that will enable scientists to find ways to cure paralysis and permit clinicians to help people with paralysis to enjoy good health and quality of life. He was a true friend of all people with disability and of those who care about them. His legacy will live in all the programs that he started or supported across the country. Our deepest sympathy goes to his wife Dana and the entire family. Kristjan T. Ragnarsson, M.D. Lucy G. Moses Professor Chairman, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine Mt Sinai School of Medicine
        REEVE--Christopher. The entire Juilliard community mourns the passing of Christopher Reeve. One of Juilliard's most distinguished graduates, Christopher transcended the severe challenges he faced and brought extraordinary courage and determination to all that he addressed. He stood as a role model for all of us at the School and showed us how his exceptional artistry and creativity could be used to make a positive impact on our entire society. We send our deepest condolences to his wife Dana and all his family and friends. His legacy will live on at Juilliard for many years to come. Bruce Kovner, Chairman Joseph W. Polisi, President Michael Kahn, Director of Juilliard Drama Division
        REEVE -- Christopher. The Trustees, staff, artists and students of the Williamstown Theatre Festival are profoundly saddened by the loss of Trustee and ''family'' member Christopher Reeve. Each summer Chris was in Williamstown, he lent his inimitable sparkle and passion to the roles he played on stage, as well as to the softball team. As a Trustee, he gave his compassion and wisdom toward the furtherance of the organization. Our warmest condolences to Dana, Will, Matthew and Alexandra. Ira Lapidus, President Michael Ritchie, Producer
        REEVE--Christopher. We extend our deepest sympathies to the family of Christopher Reeve and to the Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation on the passing of a truly great leader in the quest for a cure for paralysis. Like the ''Superman'' he was, we know Christopher's unrelenting efforts will ultimately rescue all victims of paraylsis and assure his legacy. Daniel Heumann, Carl Frischling, Armand Weiss, Steven Oser and The Daniel Heumann Fund for Spinal Cord Research
        REEVE--Christopher. Those who care deeply about the rights and needs of the disabled, along with those who advocate for the freedom of medical scientists to explore all appropriate means for easing human suffering, have lost a courageous, articulate champion and a generous friend. Christopher Reeve's many admirers at the Parkinson's Disease Foundation extend to his family their wishes for comfort at this time. Page M. Black, Chairman Robin A. Elliott, Exec. Dir.
        REEVE -- Christopher. The Creative Coalition's Board of Directors and all its Members, mourn the passing of our past President Christopher Reeve. His unique contributions and thinking will always be part of our mission. Chris and Dana's courage will always be our inspiration.
      