
        WESTON--Michaela, on October 3, 2004. We deeply regret the loss of this most vibrant woman, who was born to a Viennese stage actress, Alice von Herdan, and an anti-Hitler revolutionary, Karl Frank, on June 13, 1924, in Munich. At a young age, Michaela Maria Magdalena Agatha Frank graced the cover of a leading Austrian magazine that extolled her looks as a quintessential Austrian beauty. Schooled in Salzburg, and raised by her mother and stepfather, Carl Zuckmayer, German screenwriter of ''The Blue Angel'' and a prominent playwright, Michaela began a journey that would take her to boarding school in England, then, at 16, across the Atlantic with the help of Ingrid Warburg of the Italian banking family, to America at the outbreak of WWII, and to New York City. There, she found not only refuge -- with her parents' friends, writers Sinclair Lewis and Dorothy Thompson--but also a true home. Graduating from Sarah Lawrence in 1945, she was a journalist for the Washington Post and married a Pentagon Intelligence Officer, Harold Weston. In New York City, she raised two sons and a daughter, played tennis tournaments in Central Park, and zealously followed the New York Mets. Her husband, a labor attorney, and she moved the family to Hastings-on-Hudson, where she continued to win tennis tournaments at the Euclid Tennis Club and became a much-revered counselor of women afflicted by alcoholism. She was, morever, a Mets devotee, Clintonite, tennis star, gardener, and beloved friend to all who knew her. She was the beloved wife of the late Harold, loving mother of David and Elizabeth, and Peter Michael St. Clair, a musician with ''The Hello People'', who passed away in 1981, dear grandmother of Adam Weston, loving sister of Winnetou Guttenbrunner - Zuchmayer, and cherished aunt of Katarina Guttenbrunner. Graveside funeral 11 AM, Tuesday, Mt. Pleasant Cemetery, Hawthorne, NY. Visiting Sunday 24 PM and Monday 2-4 and 7-9 PM, Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave., Dobbs Ferry, NY (Saw Mill Parkway Exit 17), www. edwardsanddowdle.com. A memorial service will be held November 2, at 3:30 PM at Temple Emanu-El, 1 E. 65th, NYC, to celebrate Michele's life. All friends of Bill W. and Michele are invited. Memorials to the Halfway House of Westchester, Hawthorne House, 14 Longview Avenue, White Plains, NY 10605.
      