
        MICHEL--Clifford L., retired partner with the New York City law firm of Cahill, Gordon & Reindel, died on Tuesday, October 19, 2004 at his home in Gladstone, N.J. He was 65. The cause was lung cancer. Mr. Michel, known to all as Mickey, began his career at Cahill, Gordon & Reindel in 1964. From 1972 to 1976, he was the resident partner in the firm's office in Paris, France, where he specialized in corporate, securities and international law. He was also the president of the Wenonah Development Company, an investment holding company. Since 1997, he had served as managing partner of Railhead Ventures with World Headquarters in Bedminster, N.J. Beginning in the late 1970s, Mr. Michel held directorships on boards of a variety of both public and privately held companies. At various times, he was a director of the Sperry & Hutchinson Company, Cities Service Company, Fruehauf France S.A., Tempo Technology Corporation and Faber-Castell Corporation. In 1983, he became a director of The Alliance Fund and more than 30 other mutual funds managed by Alliance Capital Management. In 1987, he became a director of Placer Dome, the Canadian mining concern. He held both positions until his death. His work included a long tenure as a trustee of Morristown Memorial Hospital and Morristown Memorial Health Foundation in Morristown, N.J. He started as a trustee in 1980 and he became chairman in 1991. After the consolidation of Morristown Memorial, Overlook and Mountainside hospitals in 1996, he served as director of Atlantic Health Systems. From 2000 through 2002, he served as chairman of Atlantic Health and he continued as a trustee of the Foundation and the Morristown Memorial Advisory Board. For more than two decades he was a trustee of St. Mark's School in Southborough, MA, of which he was a graduate. From 1988 through 1994, he was chairman of the board of trustees. He was also chairman of the Lonely Hearts Club, a single woman's support group based in New York City. Clifford Lloyd Michel was born in New York City on August 9, 1939. He graduated from Princeton University with a B.A. in Economics and Public Affairs from the Woodrow Wilson School in 1961 and earned a J.D. from Yale University in 1964. That same year he married Betsy Shirley. They were married for over forty years and lived on a farm in Gladstone, N.J. where they raised pigs, chickens, donkeys and cattle. They spent summers in Siasconset, MA. Mr. Michel was a co-founder of the European Challenge, a loose affiliation of American golfing enthusiasts for which he served as Honorable Secretary for many years. He was also a member of the United States Seniors Golf Assocation. Besides his wife, Mr. Michel is survived by three children: Fritz of Los Angeles, CA, Jake of Washington, D.C., and Katie of New York City, N.Y. and two grandaughters, Stella Sperry Michel and Sadie Michel Schlesinger. The family asks that in lieu of flowers memorial contributions be made to St. Mark's School, Southborough, MA 01772 or Morristown Memorial Health Foundation, 100 Madison Avenue, Morristown, N.J. 07960. A memorial service will be held at St. Luke's Church, Gladstone, N.J. on Friday, October 22 at 11AM. For more information, contact Bailey Funeral Home of Peapack, N.J. 908-234-0590
      