
        HELLER--Ronald G. Ronald G. Heller, a vice president of Ingersoll-Rand Company Limited and the firm's corporate secretary and corporate governance officer, died September 28 in Brooklyn, NY. He was 58 years old and lived in Fair Lawn, NJ. Ronald G. Heller was born May 29, 1946, in New York. He joined Ingersoll-Rand in 1988 as assistant general counsel. His contributions to the company were quickly recognized and he held a series of positions of increasing responsibility. In 1991, Heller was named corporate secretary. He was elected vice president in 2000. This year, he was named to the newly created position of corporate governance officer. ''For those of us fortunate enough to know him, our respect for Ron's abilities was matched only by the admiration that we felt for him as a trusted confidant and valued friend,'' said Herbert L. Henkel, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Ingersoll-Rand. ''A person of keen intellect and compassion, Ron made a positive, substantial impact on virtually every area of the organization.'' Before joining IngersollRand, Heller served as vice president, secretary and general counsel for the apparel manufacturer Cluett Peabody and Co. Before that, he was an associate with the law firm Cahill, Gordon & Reindell. A graduate of the College of the City of New York, Heller earned a juris doctor degree cum laude from Fordham University School of Law, where he was a member of the law review. He was a member of the American Bar Association, the New York State Bar Association and the American Society of Corporate Secretaries. Heller is survived by his wife, Joyce, and daughters, Beth of Fair Lawn, Amy of New York, and Caren of Los Angeles. Heller is also survived by an aunt, Toni Heller, of Fort Lee, NJ. A funeral service was held in Fair Lawn on September 29. Donations in memory of Ronald G. Heller can be made to the American Cancer Society or to Camp Simcha for Terminally Ill Children, 151 West 30 Street, New York, NY 10001.
      