
        MILLER--Steven Z. The faculty, staff and students of Columbia University Medical Center mourn the tragic loss of our friend and colleague, Dr. Steven Miller. A much beloved teacher and member of the pediatrics faculty since 1993, he was honored with numerous prestigious awards for his exceptional teaching skills, including the Columbia University Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching. His students at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons (P&S) named him Teacher of the Year on numerous occasions. He was named Arnold P. Gold Associate Professor at P&S in recognition of his contributions to humanism in medicine. Dr. Miller graduated from Columbia College in 1980 and from P&S in 1984. Dr Miller was a dedicated, caring and thoughtful educator and pediatrician. Our deepest condolences go out to his wife, Dodi Meyer, M.D., assistant clinical professor of pediatrics at P&S, his children, his family and all who knew and loved him. Services will be Sunday, October 24, at 11 AM, at Congregation B'nai Jeshurun, 257 W. 88th St at West End Avenue. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Steven Z. Miller Family Fund, c/o The Meyer Family, 133 W. 81st St, NY NY 10024. Gerald Fischbach, M.D., EVP Columbia Univ. Medical Ctr.
        MILLER--Steven Zane. We, the staff of the Division of Pediatric Emergency Medicine of the Children's Hospital of NY-Presbyterian, have no way to adequately express our grief for the tragic loss of our irreplaceable leader. None of us would be the medical professionals we are today if it were not for Steve. Moreover, we would not be the human beings we are today without having had Steve as our mentor and spiritual leader. He believed in each and every one of us, and pushed us to achieve our own personal goals. He had boundless plans for our Emergency Department but, at the same time, never overlooked that its fabric was the people who worked with him and those who sought medical care. In his characteristic humble and modest way, he was our tower of strength, the glue that held us together. No one will be able to fill his void. Our hearts go out to his parents, his brother, his wife Dodi, and to his children, Jesse, Maya and Nico, whom he adored.
        MILLER--Steve Z. We are heartbroken by the tragic loss of our much beloved Steve. We will miss him desperately. Our love goes to Dodi, Jesse, Maya, Nico and his entire family. Roly, Talia, Yahel, Maya, Marcelo, Juliana, Mickey, Gaby, Dana
        MILLER--Steven Z., M.D. In loving memory to a scholar and a gentleman: you had it all, from the moment you walked through the door as an intern. Elizabeth K. Goldman, M.D.
        MILLER--Steven Z., M.D. NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened by the sudden and tragic loss of our dear friend and beloved colleague Dr. Steven Miller, the highly respected director of pediatric emergency medicine and pediatric medical student education at Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of NewYork - Presbyterian/Co lumbia University Medical Center. A great doctor, and a gifted teacher, Dr. Miller was an enthusiastic and energetic advocate for humanism in medicine. He was devoted to treating with compassion, attune to the needs of patients and their families, and committed to improving the lives of children. A member of the Hospital family since 1993, Dr. Miller was responsible for building our program in Pediatric Emergency Medicine, including an outstanding Fellowship program. He was a true inspiration to his students and colleagues. His unique and captivating talent for teaching changed the way medicine is taught and practiced. While his brilliant career has been cut short, he leaves a legacy of service that will long be remembered by all those whose lives he touched. Steve was a husband, a father, a friend, and an extraordinary individual whom we will never forget. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife and our dear colleague Dr. Dodi Meyer, their children, and his entire family. Herbert Pardes, M.D. President & CEO NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        MILLER--Steven Z., M.D. The entire staff of the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of NewYork - Presbyterian grieve at the tragic loss of our beloved colleague and friend. Our hearts go out to his wife and our staff member Dr. Dodi Meyer and their children Jesse, Maya and Nico and to the rest of his family. To know Steve was a joy and a privilege for all of us. As Director of our Emergency Department and as a leader in teaching the next generation of pediatricians, Steve demonstrated a complete commitment and a unique talent. His many contributions to the life of the Hospital and to the children we serve are incalculable. We will miss him terribly and cherish his memory forever. Cynthia N. Sparer Executive Director Children's Hospital of NewYork-Presbyterian
      