
        JACOBS -- Joseph J. The Board of Trustees, administration, faculty, students and alumni of Polytechnic University mourn the passing of Dr. Joseph J. Jacobs, alumnus, generous benefactor and 1986 Honorary Doctorate of Engineering recipient of the University. He twice served as chairman of Polytechnic's Board of Trustees and was a lifetime trustee. Dr. Jacobs held four Polytechnic degrees, and was founder and board chairman of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., an international engineering and construction firm based in Pasadena, CA. His humanitarian endeavors included the establishment of the Jacobs Family Foundation to promote community-based economic development, aid families and youths at risk and provide educational and other opportunities to underrepresented groups. In 2002, in recognition of his selfless dedication to his alma mater, Polytechnic named its new academic building in his and his wife's honor. The Joseph J. and Violet J. Jacobs Building at Metro Tech Center in downtown Brooklyn, NY, stands as a tribute to the generosity and devotion of the Jacobs family to Polytechnic. Among the many honors bestowed upon him, Dr. Jacobs was elected to the National Academy of Engineering and named a fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, of the American Institute of Chemists and of the Institute for the Advancement of Engineering. In 1983, President Ronald Reagan presented him with the Hoover Medal, which recognizes the civic and humanitarian achievements of professional engineers. Dr. Jacobs was also an accomplished author and published two books, The Anatomy of an Entrepreneur: Family, Culture and Ethics and The Compassionate Conservative: Assuming Responsibility and Respecting Human Dignity. Joe's wise counsel, generous spirit and gentle humor will be sorely missed by the University, but his memory will live on at Polytechnic. Our sympathies are with his wife and three daughters, Dr. Linda Jacobs, Margaret Jacobs and Valerie Jacobs Hapke and their families. Stewart G. Nagler, Chairman David C. Chang, President Polytechnic University
      