
        LILLY--John R., 76, Financial Executive, of Greenwich, CT died October 19, 2004 at Greenwich Hospital. He died of cancer after a long illness with Parkinson's and Diabetes. Born August 15, 1928 in St. Paul, Minnesota, he was the son of the late Richard J. and Katherine Kaye Lilly of Lincoln, Nebraska. Mr. Lilly is survived by his wife of 46 years, Marcella Seymour Lilly of Greenwich, CT a daughter, Marcella Dresdale of Bronxville, NY a son, John R. Lilly, Jr. of Greenwich, CT and four grandchildren. He was predeceased by a sister, Katherine Gibbs, of Lincoln, Nebraska. Mr. Lilly received his B.A. degree from the University of Nebraska and Juris Doctor degree from Georgetown University Law School. He did post-graduate work in Economics at Oxford University in England and was a research and teaching fellow in international trade law at Goethe University, Frankfurt am Main, Germany. Mr. Lilly's business management experience included serving as Chairman, President, Chief Financial Officer, Director and member of Senior management of multi-national Fortune 500 companies. He started with the international staff of the Ford Motor Company and then was associated with the Singer Co., Richardson-Merrell, Inc., U.S. Industries, Inc., Food Fair Inc. and Atlantic Energy Inc. In the late 1960's, Mr. Lilly founded the Treasurer's Club in New York City. He was a past governor of the Riverside Yacht Club. He served in the Korean War as 1st lieutenant and was awarded the Bronze Star for bravery. Mr. Lilly was active in community, charitable and educational affairs. He was a member of the Declarations Committee of the National Foreign Trade Convention, the International Section of the American Bar Association and, under Presidents Johnson and Nixon, was a member of the Business Advisory Council on Federal Reporting of the Office of Management and Budget. He also served as a member of the Financial Advisory Council of the American Management Association and was admitted to State and Federal Bar associations.
      