
        RUDICK--Patricia L. Survived by guardian angel cousin Paul, children Jennifer and Jonathan Goodman, Lyris and Charles Mansoor, Daniel Rudick, sister Ellen Linsky, grandchildren Jake, Evan, Ethan, Noah, Anna and husband Sam. A legend in her own time, she always gave spiritually, emotionally and unconditionally. Services Thursday 9:30AM, ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave, New York City.
        RUDICK--Patricia L., The Members of The New York Branch of the International Dyslexia Assoc. mourn the loss of its devoted board member and former Board President, Pat Rudick. The Branch extends deepest sympathy to her husband Sam, children, Jennifer and Jonathan Goodman, Lyris and Charles Mansoor, Daniel Rudick, sister Ellen Linsky, and grandchildren Jake, Evan, Ethan, Noah, and Anna. Pat was a gifted and passionate educational therapist. Her students prospered under her guidance. She was forward thinking and her can-do philosophy influenced every aspect of her being. She was a life force extraordinaire. She will be deeply missed and will long be remembered by her students, colleagues and members of the Branch. Linda Selvin Executive Director Judith Birsh President New York Branch International Dyslexia Assoc.
        RUDICK -- Patricia. The Hampton Synagogue sorrowfully mourns the passing of our cherished and devoted benefactor. To her husband, Sam, her children, Daniel, Lyris and Jennifer, and to the entire family, our heartfelt sympathy. Her memory will always be a source of blessing and inspiration. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Pres. Seymour G. Siegel, Treas.
        RUDICK--Patricia L. We miss you so Mrs. ''Rudnik''--our beloved and saintly friend. You truly were the most special person we've ever known! Steve and ''Dixie'' Steinberg
        RUDICK--Patricia L. To our president, Dan, and all of your family, our deepest condolences on the passing of your mother. Members of the Aspatuck Tennis Club
        RUDICK--Patricia. With overwhelming sadness our sympathy to the Rudick family on the loss of the angelic Pat and her beatific smile. Teri and Larry Schaen
      