
        STEIN--Richard C., Esq. 81, on Friday, October 1, 2004. Survived by his adoring family, his precious wife of 59 years, his Edith, his children Gary, Geri, Melinda and Tom and his wonderful grandchildren to whom he was entirely devoted, Leslie, Michael, Taylor, Hayley and Ryder and his loving sister-in-law Marilyn and her children Marc, Evan and Daniel and his brother Seymour. The most extraordinary man with a lifetime of achievements. Most important to him was the joy and bond he brought to and received from his family. His impact on the many generations from peers to grandchildren is measured by the vacuum his absence has already created. Beyond family, his passions were the law which he loved, business where he succeeded, charity work to help those who could not help themselves and thoroughbred horses which he bred and raised. He passed the New York State Bar at age 20 and was admitted when he turned 21, an achievement made possible by his rare talent. While waiting to be admitted he successfully tutored others, including Franklin D. Roosevelt, Jr. Soon after he became involved in the then newly created United Nations and worked with Trygvie Lie, the first Secretary-General. Active in politics he was a charter member of the Young Liberals of Brooklyn and was a speechwriter for Eleanor Roosevelt. Later in life he sponsored one of the first fund raisers for Walter Mondale's Presidential campaign. As a result of religious prejudice he exited the legal profession early in his career and went on to a successful 20 years in business. He then returned to law, his love, and was the founding partner of the law firm that became Stein, Davidoff and Malito. He had been in private practice for the last 15 years. His charitable work included serving as President of the United Neighborhood Centers of America (UNCA), working with Arthur Ashe in establishing tennis training centers for underprivileged children and serving on President Eisenhower's National Physical Fitness Committee as well as with the Young Men's Philanthropic League. The funeral will be held at 11:15 on Monday, October 4, at Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76th Street, NYC. Shiva will be held at the familiy home on Monday evening. Memorial contributions may be made to the American Heart Association, American Cancer Association or UNCA, 3631 Perkins Avenue #
      