
        SMITH--Bernard E. Jr. 79, of Hanahan, SC and New York died October 13, 2004 after a brief illness. He became a member of the New York Stock Exchange in 1950, and at his death, ranked seventeenth in seniority among members of the Exchange. For many years he was a specialist in the stocks of several of America's premier companies. Most recently, he was a senior partner of Lawrence, O'Donnell, Marcus & Company. He retired in 1994 and moved to South Carolina, where he became active as a member of the board of Yeaman's Hall Club. Mr. Smith was for seventeen years a Trustee and Treasurer of the Board of the Choate School, from which he graduated in 1942. He was a graduate of the United States Naval Academy, and served in the Navy with distinction between 1946 and 1952, during which time he was awarded the Secretary of the Navy Commendation medal. In 1981 he was appointed by President Ronald Reagan to serve on the U.S. Naval Academy Board of Visitors, and was elected its Chairman from 1982 through 1985. Throughout his life, Mr. Smith remained committed to the value and promise of education. He was honored in 2002 with the creation of an endowment in his name to support the U.S. Naval Academy Writing Center. He served on the boards of many different companies and he was a longtime member of the Bohemian Club of San Francisco, CA. Mr. Smith is survived by his wife of 38 years, Jean Ford Smith, and seven children: Bernard E. Smith III of Old Town, ME; Katharine S. Overlock of Greenwich, CT; Deborah S. Roberts of Landenberg, PA; Audrey S. Abbott of New York, NY; Barbara E. O'Brien of Washington, DC; Leonore S. Cunningham of Bethesda, MD and Carol S. Gould of Baltimore, MD. He is also survived by four step-children: Wilder F. Bellamy of East Windsor, NJ; Peter S.W. Bellamy of Brooklyn, NY; Jean B. Hoyt of Wilton, CT and Gayer D. Bellamy Jr. of Brooklyn, NY. Additionally, he is survived by 2 brothers: James S. Smith of New York, NY; David W. Smith of Calgary, Canada; a sister, 29 grandchildren and 3 greatgrandchildren. Visiting hours will be Friday, Oct. 15th from 5-7 PM at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. NY, NY. A funeral service will be held Saturday Oct. 16th at 11 AM at St. Bartholomew's Church, 50th St. and Park Ave. NY. Contributions may be made to the Bernard E. Smith Jr. '47 Endowment for the U.S. Naval Academy Writing Center, Annapolis, MD; St. Bartholomew's Church, 109 E. 50th St. NY, NY; or Grace Episcopal Church, 90 Wentworth St. Charleston, SC.
      