
        GRUEN--William (Bill). Died on October 16, 2004, at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital after a valiant battle with cancer, at the age of 85. Born Wilhelm Gruenberg on July 19, 1919, in Vienna, Austria, to the late Hugo Gruenberg and Frances Weiss, Bill was educated in Vienna at the TGM Verband der Technologen where he graduated in 1938. After emigrating to the United States, he served in the U.S. Army and was stationed in Germany with Occupation Forces after WWII in charge of medical supplies. He subsequently graduated from the Institute of Radio Engineers in 1957, and obtained a M.A. from NYU in 1976. Bill pursued a career as a medical device entrepreneur and in the 1970's founded Ambulatory Monitoring Inc. He became a leader in the development of innovative medical products especially relating to the study of sleep. He was co-inventor of the Respitrace/Inductotrace respiratory monitor, which is well known in sleep and pulmonary laboratories throughout the world, and he pioneered the now well - accepted science of actigraphy which uses body motion as a diagnostic tool. In 1944, he married Gerta Weiniger in New York City. She predeceased him in 1997. He is survived by his brother - in - law Peter Vered of Israel, sister-in-law Mrs. Hans Kirsheimer, his cousin Robert Wright of Greece, niece Opie Rosenfield, his beloved companion Ann Moynihan, and many loving relatives and friends. He will be sorely missed by all. Mr. Gruen will best be remembered for his devotion to human well-being, particularly bringing instruments into the medical field to aid and sustain optimum quality of life. His humanitarian nature through which he touched many lives will never be forgotten, with his support of the Foundation for Research in Sleep Disorders and Associated Camps, and many worthy causes. Bill will also be remembered for his creative spirit, his kindness and generosity, his devotion to his office ''family,'' and his good sense of humor. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Chapel, 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue in New York City on Monday, October 18th, at 11:15 A.M.. Interment at Rose Hill Cemetery, in Putnam Valley. Information for memorial contributions to Bill's favorite charities is available at AMI, 1-800341-0066.
        GRUEN--William. Peacefully, on October 16, 2004, at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, NY. Beloved husband of the late Gerta Gruen. Dearly loved and respected by Michael, Marie-Louise, Jacqueline & Andrew Thorpy. Fondly remembered by John & Estelle Morris, New Zealand.
      