
        PITCHERSKY -- Carol. The American Civil Liberties Union, its officers, Board of Directors and staff deeply mourn the passing of a dear colleague and friend, Carol Pitchersky. Serving as the ACLU Foundation's Development Director and Associate Director from 1979 to 1988, Carol was an exceptionally talented development professional, whose passion and devotion to civil liberties and social justice led her to the ACLU where she made a unique contribution at an extraordinarily difficult period in the organization's long history. At a time when principles reigned but resources were severely diminished, Carol brought unparalleled integrity, vision and an unflagging commitment to defending civil liberties for all. She played a key role in helping the ACLU emerge from the shadows of crisis following the Skokie controversy to a position of stability and vigor, strengthening the organization's infrastructure, both financial and organizational. It is no exaggeration to say that her leadership role in developing the Major Gifts Program, expanding the Foundation Gifts Program and initiating the Planned Giving Program made the ACLU what it is today. From her tireless labors, ACLU contributors became not just checkbook participants, but proud card-carrying members whose donations would provide the firm foundation for the reinvigorated civil liberties organization that the ACLU is now today. We will joyously celebrate her exemplary life by continuing our work in the principled, forthright and fervent way in which Carol lived her life--and ultimately enriched ours. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband and our former colleague, Morton Halperin, and to all those whose lives she so graciously touched.
        PITCHERSKY -- Carol. The Open Society Institute mourns the death of Carol Pitchersky, the wife of our dear colleague Morton H. Halperin. Carol had a long and brilliant career as a development professional working with the ACLU and other human rights and social justice organizations. Her wisdom, integrity, warmth and good humor left an indelible impact on many lives, both those of her countless friends and on the millions served by the many organizations she helped strengthen.
      