
        SILVER--Edward. The partners, counsel, senior counsel, associates and staff of Proskauer Rose LLP mourn the loss of our esteemed senior partner and former chairman Edward Silver. Having joined Proskauer as a young associate in 1948, after graduating from Cornell Law School, where he was the managing editor of the Cornell Law Review, Ed set his sights on labor-management relations from the very start, and went on to enjoy a 40-year career as one of the country's preeminent labor lawyers. Ed represented some of the nation's largest employers, serving a wide range of clients in almost every industry, including telecommunications, broadcasting, publishing, transportation, health care, brewing, maritime, and insurance. Although Ed was a ''management - side'' labor lawyer and a skilled and successful negotiator, he enjoyed the respect, if not admiration, of those on the ''other side of the table'' because of his fairness, decency and unswerving integrity--qualities that he prized above all others. Ed was a key figure in the labor affairs of New York City and was appointed by three mayors as a City representative to the Board of Collective Bargaining. He also served as special labor counsel to the City and participated for twenty years in negotiations representing municipal employees. Ed also served as Arbitrator in the settlement of outstanding issues in the 1983 Metro North strike. Noting his important role in New York City labor relations, The New York Times applauded Ed for his ''tough, fair bargaining'' and referred to him as a ''muchneeded pro.'' Ed's leadership and sense of fairness and decency also served Proskauer well. As Chairman of the Firm until 1991, Ed helped to change the Firm's management style by bridging the generations. A visionary and true pioneer, Ed was also instrumental in the Firm's 1990 move to Manhattan's West Side. Ed was a Director and Member of the Executive Committee of the American Arbitration Association; a Member of the New York City Commission on School Facilities and Maintenance Reform and a Director of the Citizens Budget Commission. Ed served on the Labor Committees of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, the American Bar Association and the New York Country Lawyers' Association. A life-long champion of the underdog, Ed received the Judge Learned Hand Human Relations Award from the American Jewish Committee in 1984 and the 1988 B'nai B'rith International Distinguished Achievement Award. In 1989, he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Hofstra University. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Marlys, children Ann, Eric, Owen and Adam; grandson Elijah and all his family and friends. Alan S. Jaffe Chairman Proskauer Rose LLP
        SILVER--Edward. The National Basketball Association is deeply saddened by the loss of Edward Silver, beloved father of our colleague Adam Silver. Loving husband of Marlys Silver and devoted father of Ann, Erik, Owen and Adam, he was preceded in death earlier this year by his first wife and mother of his four children, Melba Silver. Edward Silver will be remembered as one of the nation's leading labor lawyers and as the former Chairman of Proskauer Rose, one of the country's most prominent law firms. Over the span of 48 years with Proskauer Rose, Ed counseled his clients, including the NBA, with wisdom, integrity and devotion. All the members of the NBA Family send their heartfelt condolences to Adam and his family. A service to celebrate the life of Edward Silver will be held in New York at the Museum of Natural History on Thursday, October 7, at 10:30 AM. The entrance is on Columbus Avenue at 79th Street. David J. Stern, Commissioner Russell T. Granik, Deputy Commissioner National Basketball Association
      