
        KUHN--Leo J. (Pop-Pop). 1918-2004. Beloved father of James and Robert. Father-inlaw to Marjorie and Rona. Loved companion to Charlotte Wilson. Beloved husband to the late Lenore ''Sunnie'' Kuhn. Loving grandfather of Joseph, Carly, Justin, Jake and Remy. Brother of the late Florence Dumanis and Helen Lorling. Passed away October 16, at the age of 86. Born in Brownsville. Attended Boys High School. Graduated from Brooklyn College and then attended the Air Force training program at Yale University for radio electronics for the B-24 bomber, serving in WWII. Upon honorable discharge from the Air Force, he worked for the Department of the Treasury. He worked for the David Jarrett Company, National General Cinema, Jerry Lewis Theatres and finally, from 1978-1997, he was the Senior Vice President of Leasing for the Mendik Company, running 866 United Nations Plaza and dubbed the Mayor of UN Plaza. He was married to Lenore ''Sunnie'' Kuhn October 11, 1942, and widowed on October 24, 2000. He was Professor of Real Estate for Pratt Institute and a die-hard fisherman and poker player. He was a selfless, loving father, and friend to all, and one of a kind. He will always be in our hearts. Funeral services will be held at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Avenue, on Monday, October 18, at 1:30 pm.
        KUHN--Leo J. From the depths of our hearts, we offer Jimmy and Bobby and their families, our sincere condolences on the passing of their beloved father. We hope memories of happy times and a life full of blessings will help you through this profound grief. Leo's big smile is looking down on us all. Marci, Brian, David and Kayla Waterman
        KUHN--Leo J. In memory of Leo Kuhn, sweet and kind Father of James, who always remembered a special dance from happier times long ago. With deepest condolences to Jimmy and his family. Alice DiMarzio, Patricia & Christina
        KUHN--Leo. Our deepest condolences to the entire Kuhn family on the loss of ''a true original''. He will be fondly remembered by all who knew him. Susan, Michael, Hillary and Jonathan
        KUHN--Leo. We wish to extend our sincere and heartfelt sympathy to our friend and partner, Jim Kuhn, and his family, in the loss of his dearly loved father. Arthur and Jane Rosenbloom Gerald Rosenbloom
      