
        MILLS--Dr. Kenneth George, peacefully passed away on the morning of October 8th, 2004. Since 1976, Dr. Mills resided in Palgrave, Ontario, Canada. Born in St. Stephen, New Brunswick, Canada, Kenneth G. Mills attended Mount Allison University and pursued a successful career as a concert pianist, and for 25 years as a teacher and adjudicator. His lifelong quest for answers to the eternal questions of life revealed to him extraordinary innate abilities of speech and artistic expression. He will be remembered most for his 50,000 recorded hours of spontaneous philosophical lectures called Unfoldments, a vast selection of which can be found in his 13 books and over 30 CDs, and for founding and conducting the internationally acclaimed vocal ensemble, The Star-Scape Singers in 7 Carnegie Hall performances, 8 European tours and 17 recordings. Dr. Mills inspired those he met in countries around the world with his prose and poetry, landscape and floral paintings, haute couture designs, and recorded choral and orchestral compositions, including ''The Fire Mass'' and symphony ''Majestic Landscape.'' Special honours received by him include an Honorary Doctorate from Wolfe's University of King's College, Cambridge; The Senate of Canada Award of Excellence for outstanding achievement in the Humanities, Education, Philosophy and Arts; the MedArt USA Special Recognition Award ''for the outstanding healing power of his Art'' and as the 1997 Honorary PRIME Mentor of Canada ''for being an exemplary mentor and for serving as a role model par excellence whom society could look up to for inspiration and guidance.'' Dr. Mills was Founder of the philanthropic charitable organization Patrons of Wisdom which provided significant opportunities for young classical performers and cultural exchange since 1980. He also founded the Earthstage Actors whose dramatic performances based on his words have been called ''a modern-day Shakespeare.'' Dr. Mills is survived by his sister, Mrs. Eleanor Nickerson of St. Stephen, New Brunswick and Mr. David Kennet. He will be dearly missed by the thousands who had the honour and privilege of knowing him. At the request of the deceased, there will be no memorial service. To commemorate Dr. Mills' life, donations can be made to The Kenneth G. Mills Foundation, P.O. Box 790, Station F, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M4N 2Y7, to foster the extensive legacy of recorded metaphysical philosophical lectures, musical scores, artistic documentation, collections, and publications of his work. Condolences for the family may be offered at www.eganfuneralhome.com
      