
        SHAPIRO--Harris Lee. Dearly loved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, cousin and friend. Died October 5th after a long illness. Born in Chicago, he grew up in Brooklyn, graduating from Brooklyn Technical High School and with an engineering degree from City College of New York. After several years working as an engineer for Curtiss-Wright Co., he found his true calling in the real estate business. With his colleagues, Ralph Kern, Arnold Midlarsky and Ashley Hoffman, he developed and managed residential properties in New York and New Jersey. A confident visionary and devoted philanthropist, he gave generously of his time and resources to a multitude of organizations. He served on many boards including the Jewish Theological Seminary, the Solomon Schechter Day School of New Milford, NJ, Solomon Schechter High School of Teaneck, NJ, Temple Emanu-El in Closter, NJ, the Tenafly Zoning Board of Adjustment, the Bergen County Cerebral Palsy League and the Jewish Home for the Elderly in Rockleigh, NJ. He particularly enjoyed serving on building committees and took great pride in his contributions to the development of new Jewish day schools and temples. His interest in disabled children led to the founding of Camp Sunshine in Ridgewood, NJ, and the development of the Children's Therapy Center in Fair Lawn, NJ. Harris was an avid fisherman and a lively companion on numerous fishing expeditions with his friends and family. Married for 53 years, he was an adoring husband to Shirley Shapiro, a loving father to his children, Elaine Appellof and Jerry Saunders, Beth and Jim Steele, and Diane and Bari Shamas, and a doting grandfather to Rachel, Ellie, Sara, Jake, Emily, Irene and Raphi. He was a devoted brother to Sylvia and Austin Fried, and brother-in-law to Lee and Ralph Kern, and a cherished uncle to all of their children and grandchildren. We will all miss his wise counsel, his kind and giving disposition, and his endless love. Funeral will take place at Temple EmanuEl, 180 Piermont Rd., Closter, New Jersey at 1 PM on Wednesday, October 6th. The family would appreciate donations to the Children's Therapy Center, 29-01 Berkshire Rd., Fair Lawn, NJ 07410 or to a charity of your choice.
        SHAPIRO--Harris. We have dreaded this day, but we must satisfy an overwhelming need to recount a small snapshot of our love and admiration for Harris L. Shapiro. In spite of enormous hardships, Harris Shapiro, with the help of his beloved wife Shirley and a loving family led a wonderful life of accomplishment and we all know of his extraordinary achievements. In the face of continuing adversity, they maintained a successful, emotional balance, discharged taxing familial obligations beyond any kind of reasonable expectations and still have the energy and emotional strength to voluntarily contribute both time and money to charity to the broader community at large. Harris had an extraordinary temperament, always ready for compromise and reasoned and good judgment. But perhaps the best achievement of all is that they had managed to be there for each other, and we see the sad day as a testament of their extraordinarily successful relationship. I would draw an analogy to sports, where the end game can become the most important part of a successful afternoon. And the longer the end game goes on, the harder it gets. As you grow older, and perhaps your prosperity increases, however your horizons and physical prowess diminish, and it is precisely at that point that it takes the most courage and fortitude to cherish your partner and maintain your successful relationships. Lee and I are in awe of the great Shapiro achievements and can still appreciate and admire their profound ability to make those enduring achievements happen. We profoundly mourn the untimely death of our dear Brother-in-Law, Friend and Partner. His untimely, but post Yom Kippur/ pre Hashanah Rabba (h) passing is evidence of his peace with the world. Harris' loving exuberance remains strong in our hearts and minds. We are confident, but nevertheless pray, that he will encounter a kinder and gentler providence, and extend our most sincere love and sympathy to his beloved dear wife Shirley, all of his beloved children and grandchildren, all of which he held so dear. Lee and Ralph Kern and Family
        SHAPIRO--Harris. Struggling valiantly with his health for most of this year, Harris can now rest in peace, while we remember this generous and thoughtful family man. His relationship with my accounting firm, H.J. Behrman and Company, spanned about 50 years and with me more than 13 years. We offer his dear wife, Shirley, and their daughters, Elaine, Beth and Diane, and their grandchildren, our sincere sympathy. Our sympathy extends as well to his business families at London Terrace and River Terrace. I know they, and I personally, will miss the wisdom of his counsel, which transcended business. Harris' ready philanthropy reflected a caring heart that set an example for us all. Those examples are there for us to remember a man who can truly be characterized as a doer in the most positive sense. It is as a doer of good that he left his mark on us forever.
        SHAPIRO -- Harris. The trustees, families and friends of the Schechter Regional High School in Teaneck, NJ are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend, trustee and co-founder, Harris Shapiro. His wisdom, warmth and generosity, for which he was known throughout our community, were instrumental in the creation of our school. Our condolences to Shirley and the family. Adam Brown Chair, Board of Trustees Rhonda Rosenheck Principal Jay Dewey Director
        SHAPIRO--Harris. It is with extreme sadness that we mourn the passing of our partner and friend, Harris Shapiro, after a long and valiant fight. Our condolences to his beloved wife, Shirley, his children Elaine Appellof and Jerry Saunders, Diane and Bari Shamas, Beth and Jim Steele, and grandchildren Rachel Appellof, Eleanor Appellof, Sara Appellof, Jacob Appellof, Emily Steele, Irene Shamas and Raphael Shamas. We will miss Harris's guidance and insight. The Partners of London Terrace Gardens
        SHAPIRO--Harris. To my friend and partner for 50 years, I will miss you. We had a wonderful relationship as friends, not just in business. We have shared good times and bad times. I want to thank you for the input instilled in mine and my family's life. Love Arnold and Helene Midlarsky, Steven and Lisa Midlarsky, Lauren Midlarsky, and all my grandchildren
        SHAPIRO--Harris. Your love, wisdom and humor were an integral part of our growing up. And we are thankful for your advice, guidance and hospitality over the years. We will miss you. William Kern, Mariye Inouye, Marion and Bennett Borko, Franklin and Julie Kern
        SHAPIRO--Harris. To our dear friend, Harris for over 60 years. We will miss him greatly. All our love to Shirley. Harriet and Ashley Hoffman Steven and Stacy Hoffman Mark and Tammy Hoffman Andrew and Lisa Hoffman
      