
        KAHN--Ivan J., MD. On October 12, 2004. Beloved husband of Jewel. Loving father of Shari and Todd Krouner, Lisa and Jeff Gold, and Jeff Kahn. Adoring grandfather of Jessie, Sammie, Emily and Jason. Dear brother of Carolyn and Larry Davis and Larry and Barbara Blatte. Dedicated Physician, Mentor, Professor of Gastroenterology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, and Director of the Montefiore Medical Group. Funeral service on Thursday, October 14th, 10:30 A.M., at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Rd, Scarsdale, NY. Contributions in memory of Dr. Kahn may be made to the Dr. Ivan J. Kahn Memorial Fund, Care of the Development Department, Montefiore Medical Center, 111 East 210th St, Bronx, NY 10467.
        KAHN--Ivan, M.D. The President and Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the passing of Ivan Kahn, M.D., an esteemed colleague and friend. Dr. Kahn was a devoted mentor and longtime attending physician in the Division of Gastroenterology who always took a great interest in the inner workings of the medical center in his 35 years teaching and caring for patients. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his dear wife, Jewel; his children Lisa Gold and her husband Jeff; Shari Krouner and her husband Todd; Dr. Kahn's son, Jeff and four grandchildren. Spencer Foreman, M.D., President Jay B. Langner, Chairman Board of Trustees, Montefiore Medical Center
        KAHN--Ivan, M.D. Our wonderful, dear friend, we will miss you. We were all fortunate to know you and have had occasion to be touched by your compassion, wisdom and knowledge. You always made our golf vacations better with your sense of humor and laughter. Your joy and spirit will always be remembered. Our lives were all touched by your being a part of it. Our love goes out to Jewel, Shari, Lisa, Jeff and their families. The Saint Croix Group
        KAHN--Ivan, M.D. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its long time devoted member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Jr., Rabbi Emeritus
        KAHN--Ivan. Love, devotion, and respect were the most important things in his life. This was the beauty of Ivan. This is what he gave us always. We will love him forever and ever. Carolyn and Larry Davis
      