
        MERRILL--Robert. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member and Honorary Officer, Robert Merrill. Robert was a consummate Friar who shared his gift of music with the world. He brought class and dignity to all Friars events, even our Roast with his powerful rendition of ''The Star Spangled Banner''. He will be sorely missed by all the Friars. We are honored and proud to have been touched by this musical genius with the magical voice. Freddie Roman, Dean Sally Jessy Raphael, Prior Fred C. Klein, Treasurer Stu Cantor, Scribe Jean Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        MERRILL--Robert. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Robert Merrill, one of the great baritones in our company's history. Beautiful singing was the touchstone of his art, and he offered it unstintingly to Met audiences in a career spanning three decades and nearly 800 performances. He triumphed in Verdi and holds the company record for performances of the leading baritone roles in ''La Traviata,'' ''Aida,'' ''Un Ballo in Maschera,'' ''Don Carlo.'' ''Il Trovatore,'' as well as Gounod's ''Faust.'' We extend our sincerest sympathies to his wife, Marion, and to all his family. Joseph Volpe, General Mgr James Levine, Music Dir.
        MERRILL--Robert. The Richard Tucker Music Foundation and the Tucker family mourn the passing of Robert Merrill, a great artist and a beloved friend and magnificent singing partner of Richard Tucker. His glorious voice will always be remembered. We extend our sincerest sympathy to Marion and the entire Merrill family. Jeffrey Tabak, Chairman Barry Tucker, President
        MERRILL--Robert. The Juilliard School mourns the passing of Robert Merrill, an extraordinary artist and a good friend. With his beloved wife, Juilliard alumna Marion (Machno) Merrill, he helped the School in many projects during his long career. We send our deepest condolences to his entire family. Joseph W. Polisi, President and the Juilliard Community
        MERRILL -- Robert. The Members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and long time friend, Robert Merrill and send condolences to his family.
        MERRILL--Robert. Temple Israel of New Rochelle expresses condolences to the family of Robert Merrill. Patricia Lampl, President Michael Z. Cahana, Rabbi
      