
        KLARFELD--Neil C. Most wonderful husband and father, died with dignity and grace at home with his loved ones around him. A leader in the real estate industry, Neil was a quiet giant known for his integrity and talent as much as his great success. He was a gentle man who had much to brag about, but never did. In the business world, he fulfilled his dream of owning his own company and with The Clarett Group, he built a number of beautiful towers throughout Manhattan. He leaves a magnificent imprint on New York's skyline, but an even taller impression upon all who knew him, especially his family. Neil traveled the world with his childhood sweetheart and wife, Charlette, settling in New York, a City he loved. He was an adoring son who took extraordinary care of his mother and father, and loved to take care of everyone in his life. ''Don't worry, I'll take care of it'' was one of his most favorite sayings. Generous of spirit and with plenty to spare, Neil was a legendary ice cream eater, Yankee fan and wine connoisseur, who most enjoyed his evenings home with his family. He will be loved and missed forever. He is survived by his wife, Charlette, his daughter, Elise, his son, Jonathan, his daughter-in-law, Debbie, his father, Sydney, his sister, Sandra, and his sister-in-law, Debra Shabas Heller. A memorial service will be held today, October 29, at noon at Riverside Chapel. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in memory of Neil C. Klarfeld to the American Cancer Society for Gall Bladder Cancer Research.
        KLARFELD--Neil C. The Clarett Group mourns the loss of our long time friend and Co-Founder, Neil Klarfeld. A visionary and leader, Neil made a lasting impression within the real estate community and was an inspiration to us in our work. He will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family.
        KLARFELD--Neil. The management, brokers and staff of Fox Residential Group deeply mourn the untimely passing of the beloved husband and true lifelong partner of our dear colleague, Charlette Klarfeld. Our love and sincerest condolences are sent to Charlette, her children, Jonathan and Elise, and the entire extended family.
        KLARFELD--Neil. The Board of Directors of the John F. Kennedy Jr. Institute for Worker Education mourn the loss of our friend Neil Klarfeld. Neil worked hard and always brought a smile to all of our faces. Our condolences to Charlette, Jonathan and Elise. We will miss you, Neil. Jeffrey Sachs, Co-Chairman
        KLARFELD--Neil. To Charlette, Elise, Jonathan and Debbie. Our hearts are broken. Our thoughts and love are with you. Margo and Tom Roni and Howard Stephanie and Ronny
        KLARFELD--Neil C. Our deepest sympathy and condolences to the family. Neil was a wonderful husband, father and colleague. His lively presence will be missed. Tina & Harold Jupiter
      