
        CRYSTAL--Robert G., 87, former President of the Haymaker division of David Crystal Inc., passed away peacefully on Sunday night, October 10, 2004, in the arms of his children at his residence. Mr. Crystal's apparel business career spanned 35 years. During his college summers he began his career with the pushcarts on Seventh Avenue moving the merchandise from warehouse to retailer. After attending the University of North Carolina, where he played football and was ACC heavy weight wrestling champion, he entered the firm as a salesman. In 1968, David Crystal was brought public and sold a couple of years later to General Mills. After leaving the apparel industry, Mr. Crystal began a successful second career in the then new option arbitrage field where he managed money for family and friends for an additional decade. Mr. Crystal's two favorite passions were sports and flying. He founded the Westchester Pilots Association and spent countless enjoyable hours flying his Navajo. In sports, he coached youth leagues in Scarsdale, NY for 15 years. As a near scratch golfer, he won the Quaker Ridge Golf Club championship five times in four different decades. He was the first member to shoot below his age when he was 80 years old (by four strokes). Mr. Crystal gave generously to many different charities and was always there to lend a hand. His lasting legacy to his children included his belief that real honor lies in one's commitment to the endeavor. While the outcome may be in doubt, no level of preparation should be spared. Hard work would be rewarded and success had to be earned. Even in his last days, his major concern was his surviving wife, Luella of 60 years. This was as true a love story as can be found. In addition to his wife, Mr. Crystal is survived by his sister Beatrice Newman, his four sons, Robert G. Crystal Jr., Jonathan A. Crystal, Todd W.D. Crystal, Bruce P. Crystal and his only daughter Wendy C. Jacobi. In addition he leaves 16 grandchildren; 13 great grandchildren with two more on the way. He lived a charmed life. Being the son of an immigrant, he was a great athlete, astute businessman, charitable giver, loving husband and father, and proudly lived the American dream. A memorial service will be held at 11:00 AM this Friday October 15 at the McMahon, Lyon & Hartnett Funeral Home located at 491 Mamaroneck Ave., White Plains, NY (914949-7777). In lieu of flowers, please send donations in honor of Mr. Robert G. Crystal to: Jansen Memorial Hospice 69 Main St. Tuckahoe, NY 10707: or, Memorial SloanKettering Hospital The Gastric and Mixed Tumor Service, 1275 York Avenue, New York, New York 10021.
        CRYSTAL -- Robert. THe Board of Directors and members of Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Robert Crystal. For over 71 years, Bob Crystal was a respected friend, and we will miss him. We send our heartfelt condolences to his family. Steven M. Slaven, President Thomas W. Brock, Secretary
      