
        KAHN--Ivan J., MD. On October 12, 2004. Beloved husband of Jewel. Loving father of Shari and Todd Krouner, Lisa and Jeff Gold, and Jeff Kahn. Adoring grandfather of Jessie, Sammie, Emily and Jason. Dear brother of Carolyn and Larry Davis and Larry and Barbara Blatte. Dedicated Physician, Mentor, Professor of Gastroenterology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, and Director of the Montefiore Medical Group. Funeral service on Thursday, October 14th, 10:30 A.M., at Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Rd, Scarsdale, NY. Contributions in memory of Dr. Kahn may be made to the Dr. Ivan J. Kahn Memorial Fund, Care of the Development Department, Montefiore Medical Center, 111 East 210th St, Bronx, NY 10467.
        KAHN--Ivan J., M.D., F.A.C.P. The Medical Director of Montefiore Medical Group 3 and Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, died October 11, 2004 at age 71. Ivan was a distinguished graduate of the Universities of Michigan (BA, 1955) and Rochester (MD 1959), who trained in Internal Medicine at Bronx Municipal Hospital Center and in Gastroenterology at Cornell Medical Center, and then joined our faculty. After over 20 years in private practice he joined the New York Medical Group. Ivan was a successful and effective clinician, consultant teacher and administrator who will be missed by his colleagues and family. Victor Schuster, M.D. Baumritter Professor and Chairman, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center; Philip Lief, M.D. Professor and Vice Chairman for Clinical Affairs, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center; Milford Fulop, M.D., Gertrude and David Feinson Professor of Medicine and Vice Chairman for Academic Affairs, Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
        KAHN--Ivan J., M.D. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend, doctor, brotherin-law and uncle. Ivan was a very special person whose time with us was much too short. His warmth and medical brilliance will be missed by all who knew him. Our thoughts and love go out to our sister, Jewel, our nieces and nephew and his entire family. Ivan will live in our hearts forever. Barbara, Larry and David Blatte Amy and Richard Braunstein
        KAHN--Ivan, M.D. ''Goodnight, sweet prince; and flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!'' We will always miss you, dear friend. Karen, Whitey, Allyne, Fred, Carol and Lenny
      