
        MILLER--Steven Zane. We, the staff of the Division of Pediatric Emergency Medicine of the Children's Hospital of NY-Presbyterian, have no way to adequately express our grief for the tragic loss of our irreplaceable leader. None of us would be the medical professionals we are today if it were not for Steve. Moreover, we would not be the human beings we are today without having had Steve as our mentor and spiritual leader. He believed in each and every one of us, and pushed us to achieve our own personal goals. He had boundless plans for our Emergency Department but, at the same time, never overlooked that its fabric was the people who worked with him and those who sought medical care. In his characteristic humble and modest way, he was our tower of strength, the glue that held us together. No one will be able to fill his void. Our hearts go out to his parents, his brother, his wife Dodi, and to his children, Jesse, Maya and Nico, whom he adored.
        MILLER--Steven Z., M.D. The physicians and staff of the Department of Pediatrics at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons deeply mourn the loss of Steve Miller. Adored by all his medical students and equally admired by his colleagues, Steve embodied the best of our profession and lived every day to the fullest, while setting an unparalleled example as dedicated teacher, compassionate clinician, selfless mentor and champion of children. To have know Steve was truly an honor; to work with him a privilege; to hear him lecture an enriching experience. He has left a profound mark on the Department, the College of Physicans & Surgeons, and medical students across the country. Steve will be sorely missed and we extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Dr. Dodi Meyer and children, Jesse, Maya and Nicolas. John M. Driscoll Jr., M.D. Reuben S. Carpentier Professor Chairman, Dept of Pediatrics
        MILLER--Steven Z. The Arnold P. Gold Foundation grieves for those who perished in the Missouri plane crash. Among them were two extraordinary physicians/ teachers, husbands and fathers: Steven Z. Miller, M.D., Arnold P. Gold Foundation Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics and Director of Pediatric Medical Student Education at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons, and Richard Sarkin, M.D., Ed.M., Associate Professor of Clinical Pediatrics and Director of Pediatric Medical Student Education at SUNY Buffalo School of Medicine. As the Foundation's Traveling Fellows, they presented nationwide workshops on ''the habit of humanism'' to the medical community. The Foundation's Trustees, Advisory Council and staff mourn the loss of these remarkable teachers and practitioners of humanistic healthcare. Arnold P. Gold, M.D., Pres.
        MILLER--Steven, Dr. The entire staff of the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of New York Presbyterian grieve at the tragic loss of our beloved colleague and friend. Our hearts go out to his wife and our staff member, Dr. Dodi Meyer and their children, Jessey, Mya and Nicholas, and to the rest of his family. To know Steve was a joy and a privilege for all of us. As director of our emergency department and as a leader in teaching the next generation of pediatricians, Steven demonstrated a complete commitment and a unique talent. His many contributions to the life of the hospital and to the children we serve are incalcuable. We will miss him terribly and cherish his memory forever. Cynthia N. Sparer, Executive Director
        MILLER--Steve Z. The entire Heschel School community is profoundly saddened by the untimely and tragic loss of Dr. Steve Z. Miller, adoring husband of Dodi Miller, loving father of Heschel students Jesse, Maya and Nico. Steve's warmth and compassion were evident in his every interaction with the children, families and staff at Heschel. His commitment to humanity guided his life and serves as an inspiration for all of us. The world is a better place for having had Steve in our midst. We send our heartfelt sympathies to the entire Miller and Meyer families. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Alisa R. Doctoroff, President Roanna Shorofsky, Head of School
        MILLER--Steve Z. General Pediatrics at Columbia University mourns the passing of our colleague and friend, Steve Miller who died October 19, 2004. He and his wife Dodi dedicated their careers to changing the practice of medicine to a more humanistic approach by teaching physicians to actively listen to their patients and to be advocates for families. We grieve with Dodi, their children and Steve's parents and his brother for this tragic loss.
        MILLER--Steven Z., M.D. NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened by the sudden and tragic loss of our dear friend and beloved colleague Dr. Steven Miller, the highly respected director of pediatric emergency medicine and pediatric medical student education at Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of NewYork - Presbyterian/Co lumbia University Medical Center. A great doctor, and a gifted teacher, Dr. Miller was an enthusiastic and energetic advocate for humanism in medicine. He was devoted to treating with compassion, attune to the needs of patients and their families, and committed to improving the lives of children. A member of the Hospital family since 1993, Dr. Miller was responsible for building our program in Pediatric Emergency Medicine, including an outstanding Fellowship program. He was a true inspiration to his students and colleagues. His unique and captivating talent for teaching changed the way medicine is taught and practiced. While his brilliant career has been cut short, he leaves a legacy of service that will long be remembered by all those whose lives he touched. Steve was a husband, a father, a friend, and an extraordinary individual whom we will never forget. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife and our dear colleague Dr. Dodi Meyer, their children, and his entire family. Herbert Pardes, M.D. President & CEO NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital
        MILLER--Steven Z., M.D. The entire staff of the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of NewYork - Presbyterian grieve at the tragic loss of our beloved colleague and friend. Our hearts go out to his wife and our staff member Dr. Dodi Meyer and their children Jesse, Maya and Nico and to the rest of his family. To know Steve was a joy and a privilege for all of us. As Director of our Emergency Department and as a leader in teaching the next generation of pediatricians, Steve demonstrated a complete commitment and a unique talent. His many contributions to the life of the Hospital and to the children we serve are incalculable. We will miss him terribly and cherish his memory forever. Cynthia N. Sparer Executive Director Children's Hospital of NewYork-Presbyterian
      