
        SILVER--Edward. Leading labor attorney and former Chairman of Proskauer Rose, whose commitment to the firm helped to fuel its growth and worldwide reputation, died on October 1, at his home in Greenwich, CT. The cause was cancer. Born in New York City's Hell's Kitchen, Edward graduated with distinction from Cornell Unversity Law School, where he was Managing Editor of the Law Review, having previously served as an aerial navigator in World War II, earning recognition for his courage in combat over the Pacific. He joined Proskauer in 1948 and immediately distinguished himself in the field of labor relations, earning the respect of both management and labor. He served as a member of the Labor Committee of the New York City and State Bar Associations and on the New York City Board of Collective Bargaining for 23 years. Edward was appointed special labor counsel to the City of New York by former mayors Lindsey, Beame, Koch and Dinkins. He was also a former Director and member of the Executive Committee of the American Arbitration Association and served as an arbitrator until the time of his death. Edward was a consummate New Yorker, tall and gracious, whose intellect, kindness, sense of humor, and passion for fairness will be missed by all who kenw him. He is survived by his loving wife Marlys, and his adoring children from his former marriage to Melba Silver, Ann, Erik, Owen, and Adam, daughterin-law Carlotta Mast Silver, and grandson Eli Edward Silver. A memorial service will be held at 10:30 am, on Thursday, October 7, 2004, at the American Museum of Natural History, entrance on Columbus Ave at 79th St. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to charities dedicated to securing equal rights and educational opportunities for those less advantaged.
        SILVER--Edward. The officers and staff of 1199SEIU New York's Health & Human Service Union, mourn the death of this trusted and beloved friend of our Union and our industry. As counsel for the League of Voluntary Hospitals and Homes, Ed Silver was a powerful advocate for humane patient care and fainancial stability in our region's great medical institutions. But he was also deeply sensitive to the needs of health care workers. In the dozen years during which Ed and League President Bruce McIver led the League of Voluntary Hospitals in contract negotiations with our Union, Ed was a constant voice for labor peace and shared progress. Those dozen years, which came after a period of turmoil and labor strife, have been the longest period of peace and stability in our industry's history. Working together, we created innovative labor/management, child care, job security and patient care programs that are unmatched in this nation. We preserved unparalleled health care benefits. And we avoided strikes. A tall, courteous gentleman, Ed had a bearing, wisdom and experience that enabled him to calm excitable colleagues on both sides. He brought out the best in us. We trusted him totally. His passing is an immense loss. But his legacy includes a revived and growing League of Voluntary Hospitals and Homes, the largest management health care bargaining agent in the nation. We look forward to continued cooperation with that organization in the spirit of empathy for the needs of others that Ed Silver exemplified so magnificently. Our condolences to his loving family. Dennis Rivera, President 1199SEIU New York's Health & Human Service Union
      