
        COLEMAN--Cy. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved member Cy Coleman. He helped us preserve the rich theatrical roots of the Friars Club and his name belongs among the legendary and immortal Friars like Rodgers, Hammerstein, Porter, Berlin and Gershwin and like them he shared a legacy of commitment to the very best. We are honored and proud to have been touched by this musical genius and we extend our sincere condolences to his family. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave, Sunday, November 21st at 7:00 PM. Freddie Roman, Dean Sally Jessy Raphael, Prior Fred C. Klein, Treasurer Stu Cantor, Scribe Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec Dir
        COLEMAN--Cy. We mourn the loss of this enormously talented man, a dear friend, whose music reflected his grace and wit and warmth. It was our privilege to have worked with Cy on several productions and he gave us some of our happiest memoments in the theatre. He leaves us with treasured and joyous memories and we will sorely miss him. With deepest sympathy to Shelby and Lily Cye. Martin Richards Sam Crothers The Producer Circle Co
        COLEMAN--Cy. The New York Pops family mourns the loss of our friend and musical colleague. A gifted composer and performer, he blazed a trail across the American musical scene. We were honored to devote an entire evening to him recently at Carnegie Hall. We send our love to Shelby and Lily Cye. It Started With a Dream, Cy, your music will live forever. The New York Pops Skitch Henderson, Founder and Music Director Ruth Henderson, President
        COLEMAN--Cy. The Officers and Directors of the Friars Foundation deeply mourn the loss of their former guest of honor Cy Coleman. He has enchanted the world with his musical shows and we are honored and proud to have been touched by this legendary musical genius. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Leo Greenland, Chairman Cy Leslie, President
        COLEMAN--Cy. The Actors' Fund is saddened by the loss of the irreplaceable Cy Coleman. The Fund just honored Cy and are extremely proud to have the opportunity to show him how much he was respected and loved by the entertainment community. Brian Stokes Mitchell President Joseph Benincasa Executive Director
        COLEMAN--Cy. I am deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and musical brother, Cy Coleman. Having known with him for 33 years, I consider him one of the most gifted artists I've ever worked with. His piano, popular songs and Broadway shows will remain his greatest legacy. Goodbye, dear friend. Mike Berniker
        COLEMAN--Cy. With deep sorrow, we regret the passing of our friend, colleague and honored inductee in the Song Writers Hall of Fame. He will be greatly missed. Hal David, Chairman/CEO The Officers and Board of Directors
      