
        GRAY--Arthur A., M.D. The staff and physicians of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System and Forest Hills Hospital are greatly saddened by the passing of Arthur A. Gray, M.D., the senior vice president and chief of staff at Forest Hills Hospital. Dr. Gray was a trusted physician, administor, colleague and friend to the hospital, its staff and physicians for 28 years. As a tribute to Dr. Gray's leadership and the legacy he leaves, Forest Hills Hospital is naming its Orthopedic program in his memory. In addition to his leadership positions at Forest Hills Hospital, Dr. Gray was an orthopedic surgeon, and served as a shareholder and board member of the Queens Long Island Medical Group. He also served the North Shore-LIJ Health System on many committees, focusing on such issues as medical leadership, quality management, strategic planning and community services. Dr. Gray's leadership at Forest Hills Hospital dates back to 1976, when it was known as LaGuardia Hospital. The highest-ranking physician within the administration at Forest Hills Hospital, Dr. Gray helped develop the hospital's medical staff membership and chaired the hospital's Performance Improvement Coordinating Group focusing on quality. In 2003, he was awarded the Lawrence Scherr, MD Award for Medical Excellence in recognition of his leadership in developing the hospital's medical and surgical programs. He graduated from the Howard University College of Medicine and earned his residency in orthopedics at Harlem Hospital. He is survived by his mother, Ida Gray, his wife, Sigrid, two daughters Nicole and Heather, a sister, Pamela, and a brother, Victor. Michael Dowling President & CEO North Shore-LIJ Health System Robert Hettenbach Executive Director Forest Hills Hospital
        GRAY--Arthur, M.D. The physicians and staff of Queens-Long Island Medical Group are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved friend, esteemed shareholder, and cherished member of our Board of Directors. Dr. Gray was a distinguished and dedicated Orthopedist with our Group for almost 30 years. He was admired and respected by his patients and colleagues. Those of us who knew him well loved him and will profoundly miss him. We extend our condolences to his beloved Sigrid, to his daughters, Nichole and Heather, and to all of his family and friends. Suman Reejsinghani, M.D., President and CEO
        GRAY--Arthur, M.D. The Board of Directors, staff and officers of Health Insurance Plan Administrators, Inc. note, with profound sorrow, the passing of Arthur Gray, M.D. Dr. Gray, a distinguished surgeon, was admired by his colleagues and by those of us who came to know him over the decades for his excellent service. Our heartfelt sympathy and our prayerful condolences extend to the members of his family. James E. Greenidge, Vice President Florida Regional Operations
      