
        OSTROVE--Paul Stuart. We sadly mourn the death of our beloved husband, father and friend, who died on November 21, 2004, at the age of 73 after a long and valiant struggle with cancer. Paul will be remembered as warmhearted, generous and outgoing. He made everyone feel comfortable and welcomed in his presence. Until the latter stages of his illness, he enjoyed life to the fullest. Paul was co-owner of Paul Stuart, The Clothing Company, started by his father, Ralph Ostrove. The original store, which opened in 1938, was named after Paul when he was still a boy. Although Paul was formerly in charge of buying and clothing operations, he was best known as the heart and soul of the store. He had a friendly and unpretentious manner that endeared him to everyone. His customers, a great many of whom became personal friends, will sadly miss being greeted and hugged by ''the sweet guy at the top of the stairs.'' He never forgot anyone's name or suit size, a remarkable talent given the multitude of people he knew. He began working at the store while he was in high school and always knew that he would go into the family business. After graduating from Colby College in 1953, Paul was in the Army for two years and then began his lifetime work at Paul Stuart. He was an overseer for Colby College from 1994 to 2003, an active member of the Lymphoma Research Foundation, and a member of the North Shore Country Club in Glen Cove, N.Y. Paul was an avid sportsman who especially loved golf, squash and skiing. He is survived by his beloved and devoted wife Estelle. They were about to celebrate their 50th anniversary in 3 weeks. He is also survived by his loving children and their spouses, Gail and Robert Kantor, who live in New York, Michael, who represents the third generation at Paul Stuart, and Lisa Ostrove, David and Lily Ostrove, who live in California, his eight wonderful grandchildren, Danielle, Jason, Zachary, Drew, Ryan, Daniel, Emma and Sophie, his sister Barbara Grodd, his brotherin-law and business partner of many years, Clifford Grodd, and several nieces and nephews. He will be terribly missed by everone who knew and loved him. He will be in our hearts and memories forever. A funeral service will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 81 St at Madison Ave on Wednesday, November 24th at 9:30AM. In lieu of flowers, donations in Paul's memory may be made to the Lymphoma Reserch Foundation, 111 Broadway, 19th floor, New York, N.Y. 10006.
        OSTROVE--Paul. Paul had only goodness in his heart. Our love and sympathy to Estelle and her wonderful family will be missed by all. Anita and Arthur Grodd
      