
        FRANKEL--Dr. Alice Kross. On November 12th, 2004, after a brief illness. Cherished wife of the late Hon. Marvin E. Frankel. Devoted mother of David Kross Schorr, Ellen Schorr, Mara Frankel Wallace and stepmother of Eleanor Frankel Perlman. Loving mother - in - law of Judith Krones, Nathaniel Polish, Rick Wallace and Joseph Perlman. Dear sister of Dr. Helen Kross Golden. Magnificent grandmother of Jeffrey, Rachel, Ronit, Natanya, Anna Rose, Lucy, Jake, Isadora and Kira. Services Sunday, 11:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations to Child Development Center of JBFCS, 120 West 57th St, NY NY 10019.
        FRANKEL--Dr. Alice K. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with profound sadness the death of Dr. Alice Frankel. As director of the JBFCS Child Development Center for many years and more recently as its Chief Psychiatrist, Dr. Frankel had a special magic with children with special needs and enormous compassion for their families. She combined an incredible intelligence and great clinical skill with a no nonsense common sense approach that reassured parents and staff and encouraged both to maximize their potential as therapeutic agents with children. Dr. Frankel had a national reputation as an extraordinary child analyst and child psychiatrist. She leaves a wonderful legacy to JBFCS and the many thousands of children and families she served. We extend our condolences to her children and grandchildren whom she loved deeply and to the staff of our Child Development Center who have lost a good friend and mentor. We will miss her. Jean L. Troubh President Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Executive VP and CEO
        FRANKEL--Dr. Alice K. The staff and board of the Child Development Center acknowledge with profound sorrow the passing of Alice Kross Frankel, M.D., Director Emerita and Chief Psychiatrist of CDC. Director of CDC from 1984 to 2000, Alice was one of a kind. Her wisdom, talent, skillfulness, compassion, respect and caring for all people made her an extraordinary clinician, teacher, colleague and friend. She was a mentor to generations of professionals, families and staff at JBFCS. She was a devoted, adoring and beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Our condolences to her four children, their spouses and her nine grandchildren. We are stronger for having known Alice and we will miss her deeply. Marian Davidson-Amodeo Director, CDC Lori Fife Terrie Fortgang Co-chairs, CDC Committee
        FRANKEL--Alice K. The Board of Directors and Staff of Human Rights First mourn the passing of Alice Frankel. Dr. Frankel was a cherished friend of Human Rights First and carried on a family tradition in her counseling work with refugees seeking asylum in this country. We will remember her for the passion, humor and humanity that she brought to everything she did. We honor her memory, the memory of her late husband Judge Marvin Frankel, the longtime chair of Human Rights First's Board and all of those whose lives they touched.
        FRANKEL--Alice K., MD. The Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research and The Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine express our deepest sorrow over the death of our esteemed colleague. Dr. Alice Frankel, supervising and training analyst at the Center was an active and valuable member of the psychoanalytic community. We send our condolences to her children, David, Ellen and Mara and her family. Robert A. Glick, MD Director George Sagi, MD President, APM
      