
        KIERNAN--Terence C. 63, of Trumbull, CT, formerly of Brooklyn, died peacefully in the Connecticut Hospice on Thursday, October 21 after a brief illness. Terry had retired to Teresian Towers in Trumbull in August 2003. Terry grew up in Stratford. He graduated from Fairfield Prep, earned a Bachelor's degree from Fairfield University and did graduate studies in Spanish at the University of Connecticut. In a career spanning 40 years he taught high school Spanish for 20 years and spent the next 20 as an executive assistant to presidents of several non-profit organizations in NYC. Terry's interests in diverse cultures led him to travel to other countries including Russia, Chile and Holland. While there he established friendships that enriched the lives of his family and other friends and which lasted for the rest of his life. Terry was a person of quiet warmth, strength and compassion, qualities consistently lived in every facet of his life. These were specially reflected in his ministry to persons with AIDS and his support of the Nature Conservancy. Along with Julian of Norwich and her cat, Terry shared with others the peace and grace at the center of contemplative prayer as well as his own love of cats. Terry's serenity in approaching his untimely death will forever serve as an inspiration to family and friends. He is survived by his sister, Celeste Mahmood and her husband Robert of Stratford, a brother, Jeffrey and his wife Barbara of Bridgeport, an aunt, Margaret Eleanor Kiernan of Stratford, a cousin, Nicholas Viner of Westport, and seven nephews, Sean, Brendan, Timothy, Randy and Christopher Kiernan and Michael and Nicholas Mahmood. Those who especially touched his life included William Strom, a decade's long friend; soul mate, Janet Waterston and spiritual companion Sr. Meg Holden FSP. In keeping with Terry's wishes there were no calling hours. A memorial mass will be celebrated at noon on Saturday, November 20, at St. James Church, 2070 Main St, Stratford, CT. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent to St. Joseph's Manor, 6448 Main St, Trumbull, CT 06611. For further information contact Dennis and D'Arcy Funeral Home, 2611 Main St, Stratford, CT.
      