
        KANE--Jasper Herbert, 101 years old, of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Shelter Island, LI, NY, passed away peacefully on November 16, 2004. He is survived by his sister, Evelyn Kane; son-in-law, Walter C.A. Schrader, and grandsons, W. Kurt Schrader, Mark J. Schrader and Scott K. Schrader, and great-grandchildren, Clare, Maren, Steven, Ryan, Danielle, Craig and Sophia Schrader. Dr. Kane was a pioneer in the field of microbiology and chemistry. He started working for Charles Pfizer and Company at age 16 and retired as vicepresident in charge of research and production. Dr. Kane received his degree at Brooklyn Polytechnic University by attending evening classes. His citric acid fermentation process revolutionized the industry in the 1920's. It was Dr. Kane's Pfizer team that developed the process to mass-produce penicillin during World War II and made it available to treat everyday Americans and wounded GI's, thus saving thousands of lives. As head of the Research and Development team at Pfizer he was also responsible for the discovery and development of the antibiotic Terramycin. Dr. Kane's funeral mass will be held Thursday, November 18, 2004, at St. Lucy's Church, 3510 S. Ocean Blvd., Highland Beach, FL. He will be buried Saturday, 10 A.M., November 20, 2004, in Calvary Cemetery, Queens, New York, next to his wife Isabel Kane.
        KANE--Dr. Jasper. Former Director of Research at Pfizer, brother of Sr. Evelyn Kane, RSCJ, and wise and cherished friend of our School, died peacefully November 16th in Florida at the age of 101. A most dedicated donor to Sacred Heart, Dr. Kane was a strong advocate of women's education. He combined strong faith with an appreciation for the world of science education and research. Generations of students, faculty, alumnae, Religious of the Sacred Heart, and the Board of Trustees are in debt to Dr. Kane for his goodness to us all. We send our most heartfelt sympathy to his family and to all those who knew and loved him. Convent of the Sacred Heart, Greenwich John N. Irwin III Chair, Board of Trustees Joan Magnetti, RSCJ Head Mistress
      