
        FRIEDMAN--Dr. Gerald J. Beloved husband of Dorothy, died peacefully at home on Thursday, November 25, at the age of 91. Son of the late Abraham and Flora, and brother of the late Samuel J. and Estelle Gervis. He received his BS at NYU College of Arts and Sciences, and his MD from NYU School of Medicine at the age of 24. His specialties in diabetes and metabolism, endocrinology and internal medicine generated many published articles in leading journals including pioneering texts in nutrition and diabetes. He held various positions at Beth Israel Hospital including Chief of Medical Intensive Care Unit, Chief of Diabetes and Metabolism, and served two terms as President of the Medical Board. He served as National Director of Medicine for United Parcel Service for 37 years until his retirement in 1992. He was the recipient of many awards, served on numerous professional boards and held associate professorships at NYU School of Medicine and Mount Sinai. After retiring, he made many philanthropic contributions and named the Gerald J. and Dorothy R. Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University, and endowed chairs in Nephrology at Tufts, in diabetes at Beth Isreal Medical Center, and in Alzheimer's at NYU Medical Center. He was a longtime member of Brotherhood Synagogue Congregation in New York and served many terms as President. He will be greatly missed by all who knew and loved him. Service private. A memorial service will be held at a later date.
        FRIEDMAN--Gerald J., M.D. The Beth Israel Medical Center family and its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, are saddened by the death of our dear colleague and generous supporter, Dr. Gerald J. Friedmnan. Dr. Friedman was a dedicated member of the medical staff for more than 40 years. He served in several leadership positions during his long association with Beth Israel, including Chief of Diabetes and Metabolism, and President of the Medical Board. In honor of his years of service and of the generous philanthropic support of the Friedman family, the conference center at the Phillips Ambulatory Care Center at BI was named for Dr. Friedman and his wife, as was the medical intensive care unit at the Petrie Division. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to the entire Friedman family over the death of this fine man. Morton P. Hyman Chairman, Beth Israel and Continuum Thomas Killip, M.D. Interim President and CEO Beth Israel Stanley Brezenoff President and CEO Continuum Robert G. Newman, M.D. President Emeritus Continuum Donald Kastenbaum, M.D. President Medical Board, BI
        FRIEDMAN--Gerald J., MD. The Brotherhood Synagogue mourns the passing of our longtime member, past President, Honorary President and generous benefactor. He was a dynamic leader, a man of great integrity and a physician of consummate skill. We will always remember his devoted service to this congregation, and our Gerald J. and Dorothy R. Friedman Center for Education is a testament to his enduring legacy. Condolences to his wife, Dorothy and to his niece, Jane.
      