
        CORMAN--Judith. The directors, staff, and residents of Phoenix House mourn the loss of a dear friend and colleague. Judy Corman was an officer of Phoenix House, who started and ran our volunteer program and headed our national communications department. She believed passionately in our mission and relished her work with young people struggling to start new lives. She went on to pursue a brilliant career in public relations but remained forever devoted to Phoenix House and her friends here. Loyalty was Judy's strong suit, for she would do anything for a friend. We will miss her--her wit, her humor, and her good sense. Edward D. Miller, Chairman Mitchell S. Rosenthal, M.D., President Kevin E. McEneaney, Executive Vice President
        CORMAN--Judith A. Senior Vice President Corporate Communications and Media Relations, for Scholastic Inc. A veteran media strategist, who brought tenacity and passion to promote the company's businesses and literacy mission. A wide ranging career in public relations in the business and non-profit worlds steered her to Scholastic, where she led the charge for the unprecedented Harry Potter phenomenon, for which she received a 2001 Matrix Award from New York Women in Communications. Her creativity, intellect, warmth, and professionalism will be fondly remembered by her staff, colleagues and friends at Scholastic. Family and friends will celebrate Judy's life at 9:30AM on November 17 at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 W 68 St, NYC.
        CORMAN--Judy. The Board and staff of City Parks Foundation mourn the passing of Judy Corman, wife of Avery Corman, one of our founding trustees. Judy was a great lover of parks and of New York City and arranged the donation of thousands of books every summer to kids who attended our free reading series. We will miss her deeply, and we send our condolences to Avery and her entire family.
        CORMAN--Judy. Judy was wonderful. A warm sun for her family and legions of friends. We are so sorry. We will miss her so much. Our love to Avery, Nicky, Matt, Dawn and Marcio. Peggy, Lizzy and Gordon
        CORMAN--Judy. The staff of Goodman Media International, Inc. mourns the loss of a dear friend and extraordinary client. We will miss Judy immensely. Tom Goodman, President
      