
        YOUNG--Adam, 91, died on November 15, 2004 of a stroke, at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, FL. He was a native of New York City. Adam Young, a page for the National Broadcasting Company while in his teens who then went on to co-found Young Broadcasting, Inc., one of the country's 25 largest television station groups. A broadcast pioneer who worked in both radio and television during their formative years, Mr. Young spent his entire professional life in the industry, having begun his career at NBC radio at the age of 17. The oldest of eight children, his income was needed to help support the family. During this time he also served as a page for the grand opening of Radio City Music Hall and was involved in NBC's move to its new Rockefeller Center headquarters. He eventually moved from the position of Head Page, through the Programming Department, and on to the Research and Promotion Department, where he developed a flair for mathematics which he successfully applied throughout his career. At night, Mr. Young managed the New Amsterdam Theater for NBC where many of the popular Big Bands of the era performed for live radio broadcasts. In 1936 he left NBC Radio and went into the advertising industry. Within eight years, he started his own business, Adam Young, Inc., representing radio stations in the United States, Canada and around the world. Eventually, with the development of a new broadcast technology, the focus of the Company shifted from representing radio stations to representing television stations. In 1986, Mr. Young co-founded Young Broadcasting Inc. with his son, Vincent, which began with the purchase of two television stations. Today the NASDAQ - traded company owns and operates 10 television stations across the United States. The Young Broadcasting station group includes ABC, CBS and NBC affiliates, as well as the nation's largest independent station--KRONTV in San Francisco. Mr. Young continued to be fully active in the business, and at the time of his death, he was the Treasurer of Young Broadcasting Inc., and President Emeritus of Adam Young Inc. In recognition of his achievement of starting with nothing and building successful radio and television businesses, Mr. Young received the Horatio Alger Association award in 1957. He was a founder of the Station Representative Association and went on to serve as President of the Association from 1955-1957. He served on the Board of Directors of the Television Bureau of Advertising from 1977-1980, and for many years he headed up its Research Committee. He was a board member of the Radio Advertising Bureau and also served as ViceChairman of the Standards Committee of the International Advertising Association. Mr. Young served as president of the Westhampton Country Club; and until recently, he was president of BioMotion Foundation, a medical research organization based in West Palm Beach, FL, dedicated to improving the technology of artificial joints. He was constantly selfeducating and he was also an avid painter. Mr. Young is survived by his wife of 68 years, Margaret Kelly Young, a daughter Sharon Conroy of Palm Beach, FL, a son Richard of Greenwich, CT and a son Vincent of Bedford, NY. A daughter, Susan Quinn, predeceased him. He also leaves nine grandchildren and two great grandchildren. There will be a viewing at Quattlebaum Funeral Home in West Palm Beach, FL on Thursday from 6:30 to 8:30 PM; and a service at the Royal Poinciana Chapel in Palm Beach on Friday at 11 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to BioMotion Foundation, P.O. Box 248, Palm Beach, FL 33480.
      