
        SILBERT--Gerald, age 82. With great sadness but knowing he is at peace, the family of Gerald Silbert announce his passing on November 22, 2004 during his final battle with Alzheimer's disease. Loving and devoted husband to Ramie (nee Jasper) for over 60 years, adoring and loving father of Terry, son of the late Herbert and Mollie Silbert, brother of Robert Silbert MD and his wife Phyllis; uncle of Joanne and Tom, Donna and Kevin, Joellen and Tracy; great-uncle of six. Beloved brother-in-law of Rita Nelson. Funeral services will be held at The Park Avenue Synagogue, Madison Avenue and 87th St., on Wednesday, November 24, at 9:30am. Shiva will be observed at the Silbert home, Wednesday through Sunday, 1-3pm and 7:30-9pm. Contributions may be made to The American Technion Society, Women's Division, 55 E. 59 St., NY NY 10022 or The Park Avenue Synagogue.
        SILBERT--Gerald. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Gerald Silbert of New York, an outstanding friend of Israel and the Jewish people. Devoted husband of Ramie Silbert, who is honorary president of the ATS Women's Division and a member of the national Board of Directors, Mr. Silbert was a brilliant attorney with the firm of Proskauer, Rose, Goetz and Mendelsohn, and shared his wife's decades-long devotion to the ATS, the Technion and Israel. Technion Guardians who reached the highest level of support, the Silberts have provided generously for numerous Women's Division priorities, including medical engineering projects and faculty development. They are responsible for the Ramie and Gerald Silbert Molecular Bacteriology Research Facility, the Women's Division Ramie and Gerald Silbert VIP Lounge, and the Silbert Scholarship Fund. Through Mr. Silbert's efforts, the Rashi Foundation, of which he was a trustee and legal counsel, became a major Technion supporter, also at the Guardian level. In recognition of the couple's long-term, vital support, the Silberts were both awarded honorary Technion fellowships. We extend our sincere condolences to Ramie Silbert, daughter Terry Silbert and the entire Silbert family. The American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Stephen A. Laser, President Evelyn Berger, Chairman, Board of Directors Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Ilse Blumenfeld, Women's Division President Natalie Lyons, Women's Division Chair Gloria Neimark, Women's Leadership Director
        SILBERT--Gerald. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of Gerald Silbert, an Honorary Vice President. We extend to his wife Ramie and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft, President
        SILBERT--Gerald. We shall treasure the times spent with our dear friend, mentor and fearless leader--Jerry. Rosalie, Marty and Nita, and Mel and Pearl
      