
        MINTZ--Walter. Died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday, November 16, 2004 after a long illness. He was the dearly loved husband of Sandra Earl Mintz. Born February 23, 1929 in Vienna, Austria the son of the late Maximillian and Ilse Schueller Mintz, he came to the United States with his family in 1938. After attending public schools in the Bronx, he graduated from Reed College in Portland, Oregon in 1950, and then did post-graduate work in economics at Columbia University. He was an Associate Editor at Barron's before he began his career in the investment business at Shearson Hammill Co. in 1956. There, he was the Director of Research, 1962-69, and Executive Vice President of their Investment Division, 1965-70. In 1970, he co-founded Cumberland Associates, an investment management company in New York. He retired as a Managing partner from that firm in 1982, remaining a special limited partner. Mr. Mintz was a Trustee of Reed College for 33 years, 1971-2003. He was Vice Chairman of the Board of Trustees, 1991-98, and Chairman 1998-2002. He established the Walter Mintz Economics Scholarship for students, and co-sponsored a Chair in Economic History. In New York, he was a Trustee of The Manhattan Institute, 1990-2003, and served as Vice Chairman, 1994-2003. He was also on the Boards of Merrill Lynch Phoenix Fund and Federal Security Trust, 1982-2001; on the Board of the Citizen's Union Foundation, 1985-2003, and was a member of the N.Y. Society of Security Analysts, where he served on their Board of Directors, 196975. In addition to his wife of 33 years, he is survived by his sister and brother-in-law, Marjorie and Dr. Joseph K. Perloff, and their two daughters, Nancy and Carey, all of California. Services were privately held, but it is hoped that all who knew him will set aside some time to remember his great ability to think and reason fairly; his enjoyment of life and his work; his good nature, compassion and generous spirit. He cherished his friends and was grateful for them.
        MINTZ--Walter. The Trustees and staff of the Manhattan Institute mourn the passing of Walter Mintz, our beloved trustee. As Vice Chairman of the Manhattan Institute, Walter was a generous supporter of our efforts. His concern for, and sense of debt to, New York's public school system initiated his strong commitment to public school reform and to the Manhattan Institute as a lever of change. He was an intellectual architect and partner in many of our most important accomplishments. Beyond that he was a gentleman and a good friend. We shall never forget him. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family.
        MINTZ--Walter. A devoted and respected member of the Board of the Citizens Union Foundation and its Treasurer for many years. New York has lost a humane, effective and committed leader. Robert Abrams, President Citizens Union Foundation Richard Davis, Chair Citizens Union Dick Dadey, Exec. Dir.
        MINTZ--Walter. I have lost my boss, mentor, friend, counselor, tennis partner. When I lost my father, our then 5 year old said ''It's not so bad, we still have Grandma.'' We still have Sandy, which is a profound consolation. Sara & Mort Richter
        MINTZ--Walter. My closest friend & business partner for over 40 yrs, an irreplaceable loss. I will miss his smile, wisdom & friendship every day. Our condolences go out to Sandy, his wonderful, loving wife & our close friend. Jane and Don
      