
        LOEB--Peter K. November 16, 2004. Beloved husband of Jeanette. Loving father of Peter, Karen, James and Alexander. Cherished grandfather of Ashley, Marina and Victoria. Devoted brother of Carl & Constance. Memorial service Monday, November 22nd, 11AM at City Center, West 55th Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues.
        LOEB--Peter K. The AllenStevenson School community mourns the passing of a valued alumnus, past parent and Trustee Emeritus, Peter K. Loeb '51. Mr. Loeb served as a Trustee from 1969 until 1997; his advice and counsel were invaluable. He became a Trustee Emeritus in 1997 and remained a loyal supporter of the School. We extend our sympathy to his wife, Jeanette, his daughter, Karen, and his three sons, James, Alexander and Peter '75. Ronald S. Rolfe, President Board of Trustees David R. Trower Headmaster
        LOEB--Peter K. Director of the Jacob and Valeria Langeloth Foundation since 1971 and Treasurer since 1996, he served with distinction during these decades bringing his wise counsel to our deliberations and lightening our gatherings with his gentle humor. With clear vision and an ability to grasp complex issues, he always found a ready solution and reached for the heart of the problem. Having lost a devoted colleague and dear friend, the Directors of the Langeloth Foundation express their collective sympathy to his wife, Jeanette and to his extended family.
        LOEB--Peter K. The Board of Trustees, Headmaster, Faculty, Staff, Students and the Collegiate School Community mourn the loss of Peter K. Loeb, husband of Board of Trustees member Jeanette W. Loeb and father of Alexander, class of '06. Peter's wisdom and kindness have benefited Collegiate over the many years he and his family have been involved with the School. The Collegiate Community extends heartfelt condolences to Jeanette, Alex and the entire Loeb family. David B. Forer, President, Board of Trustees W. Lee Pierson, Headmaster
        LOEB--Peter K. The Board and staff of City Harvest deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend and former Board member, Peter K. Loeb. Peter believed in the power of working together and was devoted to ending hunger, locally and nationally. We will miss him dearly--his passion, guidance and support were beyond measure. With great sadness, we send our condolences to Jeanette, his children and the entire family. Susan Marks, Chairman Julia Erickson, Exec. Dir.
        LOEB--Peter. The faculty, students and staff of Columbia Business School mourn the loss of our Board of Overseers member, alumnus and dear friend Peter Loeb. Our deepest sympathies and prayers are with his family. His successful and interesting life made him a role model for all of us. We will miss him greatly and remember him fondly.
        LOEB--Peter. The Columbia Business School Board of Overseers expresses its heartfelt condolences to the Loeb Family on the loss of their father and husband, and our friend and colleague Peter Loeb. We will miss his steadfastness, his generosity to his friends and his commitment to living his values.
        LOEB--Peter. Our deepest sympathy to the Loeb family on their loss of Peter, our dear friend. The Madoff Family
      