
        KOFFLER--Stephen A., adoring husband to Enid, and loving father to two daughters, Samara and Debra, passed away on Friday November 5, 2004 after a long, courageous battle with cancer. Born in Providence, Rhode Island in 1942, Stephen earned his doctorate at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in solid state physics and material science engineering. He resided with his family in Pacific Palisades, California for 32 years. Stephen was deeply loved and respected by his family, friends and business associates as a warm-hearted, honest and incredibly generous individual. He will always be remembered for his intelligent wit, offbeat sense of humor and an endless spirit and passion for life. Stephen A. Koffler was a Managing Director at Barrington Associates and formerly a Managing Director with both Smith Barney and Merrill Lynch & Co. He also launched his own firm Koffler & Co., which was eventually acquired by Barrington Associates. ''Steve was a valuable partner and a dedicated family man,'' said Jim Freedman, Managing Director of Barrington Associates. ''His guidance and presence at our Firm will be greatly missed.'' After a successful career on Wall Street, Mr. Koffler joined Mattel, Inc. as a senior financial executive, and went on to run the west coast operations of several firms, including Smith Barney, Merrill Lynch & Co, and Sutro & Co. He was well known as one of the leading investment bankers in the country, pivotal in highprofile deals including the sale of Jenny Craig to Deutsche Bank in 2002, Midas Rex to Medtronics, and Avia to Reebok, as well as many others. Mr. Koffler served on the Board of many organizations including Saint John's Health Center Foundation, the Greater Los Angeles Zoo Association, Sandel Medical Industries, and the Los Angeles Music Center Opera. A memorial service will be held at the Leo Baeck Temple 1300 North Sepulveda Blvd. in Los Angeles, California on Thursday, November 11th at 11:00 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to: St. John's Nurse Endowment Fund 1328 22nd Street Santa Monica, CA 90404; St. John's Health Center, 1328 22nd Street Santa Monica, CA 90404; Conscious Youth Media Crew -Stephen A. Koffler Scholarship Fund c/o Debra Koffler, 349 San Jose Avenue San Francisco, CA 94110
      