
        MALAMUT -- Abraham L. The Board of Trustees, Administration, Associate Board and League of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation deeply mourn the passing of our beloved friend & past Chairman of the Board, Abraham L. Malamut. On behalf of the thousands of elderly men and women whose lives were touched by the health care programs and services he helped promote and generously support, we will forever remain grateful. His name will be an indelible part of our history, and his commitment will inspire us to perpetuate the Institute's mission, which he held in such high esteem. We wish to offer children, Carole and Richard, grandchildren Alexandra, Jeffrey, Vicki and Seth, and the entire Malamut family, our most heartfelt condolences. May the sympathies of friends and warm memories of shared love ease your burden at this most difficult time. Jerry Landsberg, Chairman of the Board Michael N. Rosenblut, President and Chief Executive Officer
        MALAMUT--Abraham. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Abraham Malamut, a longtime member of the Beth Israel Board of Trustees and former Treasurer of the Board. Abe will forever be remembered for his dedication and commitment to the Mission of the hospital, and will be greatly missed by all those who knew him and worked with him. To his family, friends and loved ones, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman Chairman Boards of Trustees Continuum and Beth Israel Stanley Brezenoff President and CEO Continuum Thomas Killip, MD Interim President and CEO Beth Israel Donald M. Kastenbaum, MD President, Medical Board Beth Israel
        MALAMUT--Abraham. The Officers, Trustees, and Members of The Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the death of Abraham Malamut, past President of our synagogue and outstanding communal leader. His remarkable record of achievement will always be an inspiration to those of us who have been blessed with the legacy of his good works. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his family. Rabbi Gerald C. Skolnik Cantor Adam Frei Matthew R. Beizer, President Shira Shapiro, Exec Director
      