
        COLEMAN--Dr. Lester Laudy. Death came peacefully on November 11th. A man beloved by the patients whom he served in a career that spanned 70 years. Dr. Coleman was a graduate of Johns Hopkins University and Long Island College of Medicine. He held the position of Attending Surgeon in Otolaryngology at both Manhattan Eye and Ear and New York Hospitals and was a Clinical Professor at Albert Einstein School of Medicine in New York City. He was a diplomate of the American Board of Otolaryngology and a Fellow of the American Triological Society and past Vice President of the American Academy of Psychosomatic Medicine. Dr. Coleman trained and guided the careers of many medical students. He was a nationally syndicated columnist for King Features Syndicate writing the ''Speaking of your Health'' column for more than 25 years and the author and narrator of ''A Guide to your Health'' a nationally syndicated radio program. Dr. Coleman created and produced ''Here's to your Health'' an early television series for the Medical Society of New York County and the National Broadcasting Company. He authored several books including ''Freedom from Fear'' which was translated in 12 languages and another widely used children's book ''A Visit to the Hospital'' intended to allay the fears of children facing surgery. Shortly before his retirement in 1999, Dr. Coleman spoke of how gratifying his life in medicine had been made by his patients and how grateful he was to them for their devotion to him. Dr. Coleman is survived by his wife Elizabeth, daughters Lynn Dale and Lisa and his beloved grand-daughter Sarah Elizabeth. A memorial service will be held Tuesday, November 16th at 2:00 PM at Frank E. Campbell (The Funeral Chapel) Madison Ave at 81 St.
        COLEMAN--Dr. Lester Laudy. If we can somehow apply just little bits of what we've tried learning from Lester, all of our lives and everyone we touch will be far more enriched. Lester taught me what a hemi demi semi quaver is; the sound between the notes. ''Pay attention to that sound'' was something he told me. ''Trust Elizabeth and me and love yourself'' was another. Lester painted twinkling stars on the dark skies of life's ordinariness. Goodnight sweet prince. Goodnight Dad. Alex
        COLEMAN--Dr. Lester. The Chapman family mourns the loss of their cousin, Dr. Lester Coleman. Of service to everyone, he was loved by so many.
      