
        CLARK--George John ''Jack'' and LaJean Avery--Died on Wednesday, November 17, in an automobile accident a mile away from their home of 40 years in New Canaan, Connecticut. LaJean Avery was born in Aberdeen, South Dakota, on July 23, 1923, and raised in Huron, South Dakota. After attending Carleton College, she worked for the State Department in Athens, Greece, as part of the postWorld War II Marshall Plan reconstruction of Europe. Jack Clark was born in Springfield, Massachusetts on January 18, 1925. After undergraduate work at Yale University and graduate work at Harvard, he went to work for the Greek government in Athens, where he met and married LaJean. Upon returning to the United States, the Clarks lived in Arlington, Massachusetts, Bethesda, Maryland and La Paz, Bolivia, while Jack worked for the International Monetary Fund. In 1964 he joined First National City Bank (now Citigroup) and the family moved to New Canaan, Connecticut. Jack spent 26 years at Citigroup, working in international finance and retiring as an Executive Vice President. LaJean earned her Masters in Special Education from Fairfield University and returned to work teaching special education and directing the special education department at the New Canaan High School for over a decade. Jack retired in 1990 and LaJean in 1991. During the last 14 years of their lives they spent a great deal of time with their children and grandchildren, traveling extensively around the country and the world, and enjoying gardening, swimming, birdwatching, fine dining, and other activities at their house in New Canaan. They are survived by their three children: Constance of Coral Springs, Florida; Catherine of Great Barrington, Massachusetts; and Christopher of Wayland, Massachusetts; and eight adoring grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at the St. Michael's Lutheran Church in New Canaan on December 10. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to The Birdcraft Museum, Audubon Society of Connecticut, at (203) 259-0416.
      