
        LOEB--Peter K. November 16, 2004. Beloved husband of Jeanette. Loving father of Peter, Karen, James and Alexander. Cherished grandfather of Ashley, Marina and Victoria. Devoted brother of Carl & Constance. Memorial service Monday, November 22nd, 11AM at City Center, West 55th Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to City Center, City Harvest, Special Olympics International, and the New York City Baseball Federation.
        LOEB--Peter K. The AllenStevenson School community mourns the passing of a valued alumnus, past parent and Trustee Emeritus, Peter K. Loeb '51. Mr. Loeb served as a Trustee from 1969 until 1997; his advice and counsel were invaluable. He became a Trustee Emeritus in 1997 and remained a loyal supporter of the School. We extend our sympathy to his wife, Jeanette, his daughter, Karen, and his three sons, James, Alexander and Peter '75. Ronald S. Rolfe, President Board of Trustees David R. Trower Headmaster
        LOEB--Peter K. The Board of Trustees, Headmaster, Faculty, Staff, Students and the Collegiate School Community mourn the loss of Peter K. Loeb, husband of Board of Trustees member Jeanette W. Loeb and father of Alexander, class of '06. Peter's wisdom and kindness have benefited Collegiate over the many years he and his family have been involved with the School. The Collegiate Community extends heartfelt condolences to Jeanette, Alex and the entire Loeb family. David B. Forer, President, Board of Trustees W. Lee Pierson, Headmaster
        LOEB -- Peter. The PGA TOUR, Barclays Classic and tournament volunteers mourn the loss of our friend Peter Loeb. His dedication and positive attitude were unsurpassed. Over the past thirty-eight years his passion and level of commitment to the tournament and its charities contributed greatly to its success. We will miss him dearly. Barclays Classic Organizing Committee
        LOEB--Peter K. We are deeply saddened by the sudden loss of our dear friend who tirelessly worked for the less fortunate and had many talents and interests. We will miss you Peter. Our deepest sympathy to Jeanette, Alexander and the Loeb family. Marie and Ben
        LOEB -- Peter K. Cousin, friend, a person deeply involved in caring for others, you will be missed by so many people. Our love and sympathy to your family. Betty and John
      