
        HOCHBERG--Rita. On November 28, 2004. After a long illness surrounded by her family. Adored wife of Irwin, beloved mother of Mitchell, Richard & Jonathan. Loving mother-in-law of Suzan and Stacy, Cherished Bubbe of Isabelle, Julia, Jordan, Ethan and Sabrina, loving sister-in-law of Sybil Barer and sister of Martin Tausner. She committed her time and energy in support of American Jewry and the State of Israel. She served on the Boards of U.J.A.-Federation of New York, Project Renewal-Hatikvah, N.Y. Association For New Americans, and Open University of Israel. She was a Hadassah Life Member and former chairman of the Great Neck ORT Chapter. She devoted her life to her family, especially her five grandchildren who meant so much to her. Her dedication to family and tzedakah will forever live on through her children and grandchildren. She will be missed dearly by so many and her memory will eternally remain in the hearts of all of us that loved her so much. The funeral was held Monday November 29, 2004 at Congregation Kneses Tifereth Israel, 575 King Street, Port Chester, NY. Interment followed at Sharon Gardens, Valhalla, NY. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the American Friends of the Open University of Israel or to the Rita Hochberg Fund at Westchester Medical Center to support the nurses in the Intensive Care Unit.
        HOCHBERG--Rita. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Rita Hochberg, beloved wife of Irwin, former chairman of the board & long time leader of UJA-Federation, whose unparalleled commitment and generosity touched many Jewish causes worldwide. A cherished partner in her husband's philanthropic leadership efforts, Rita lived an exemplary life filled with love for her family, the State of Israel, and the Jewish people, passing on to her children a dedication and commitment to strengthening our ability to serve those in need. We extend our deepest sympathies to Irwin; their children: Mitchell and his wife Suzan, Jonathan and his wife Stacy, and Richard; their five grandchildren; and the entire Hochberg family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        HOCHBERG--Rita. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved wife of Irwin Hochberg, Chairman of its National Campaign Advisory Board and former National Campaign Chairman. She was a widely respected Jewish communal leader in her own right and a devoted supporter of the Israel Bonds program. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Irwin and the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Joshua Matza President and CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Michael Siegal Vice Chairman of the Board Bobbie Goldstein Nat'l Campaign Chairman Joel Gutterman National Campaign Director
        HOCHBERG--Rita. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Rita Hochberg, beloved wife of Irwin, a Vice Chair of ADL's National Commission. Rita joined Irwin in his support of ADL's agenda and shared his passion and commitment for the well being and security of Israel and the Jewish people everywhere. We extend our sincerest condolences to Irwin, his sons and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        HOCHBERG--Rita. All of us at Bloom Hochberg & Co. mourn the death of Rita Hochberg, the wife of our esteemed senior partner, Irwin. The mutual love and respect Rita and Irwin showed for each other was always there, and always heart warming. We pray Rita's memory will give her family strength during this sad and difficult period. The partners and staff of Bloom Hochberg & Co.
        HOCHBERG--Rita. Barbara and I, together with our parents and children, mourn the death of our friend Rita Hochberg. Rita's enthusiasm for life and her philanthropic work were inspirational. When she fell ill, her courage and Irwin's devotion showed us, by example, how to deal with adversity. She will be sorely missed. Myron Bloom
        HOCHBERG -- Rita. The Trustees, Officers and Staff of The Caroline and Joseph S. Gruss Life Monument Funds mourn the passing of Rita Hochberg, wife of our devoted board member, Irwin Hochberg. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Martin D. Gruss, Chairman Jason G. Cury, President
      