
        ORBACH--Jerry. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member and Honorary Officer Jerry Orbach. Jerry was a consummate Friar who shared his talent with the world. His contributions to the world of entertainment were immeasurable. His guidance and wisdom kept law and order among the Friars and while he will be deeply missed we're comforted for the performing arts legacy that he has left behind. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Friday December 31, 11:30 AM, located at 180 W, 76 St. & Amsterdam. Freddie Roman, Dean Sally Jessy Raphael, Prior Fred C. Klein, Treasurer Stu Cantor, Scribe Jean Pierre Trebot, Executive Director
        ORBACH--Jerry. Our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to Elaine and family. We've all lost a dear friend whose friendship knew no boundaries, whose celebrity was worn with graciousness and whose straight talk and story telling fascinated everyone within earshot. Jerry, we will miss the golf and the dinners, the crosswords, the poker and pool stories, but most of all, we are sad not to see those shining eyes and bright smile light up the room as you walked in. We don't have to ''Try to Remember.'' We'll never forget you. Donny and Nancy Carter and family
        ORBACH--Jerry. The Board of Directors and volunteers of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with deep sorrow the passing of Jerry Orbach, our longtime friend and a frequent golfer at our annual Tony Darrow Celebrity Tournament. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Elaine. Martin Hausman, President Edward R. Matthews, Executive Director UCP/NYC
        ORBACH--Jerry. Jerry was a constant star, the kind you navigate by, and everyone at The Actors' Fund of America mourns the loss of a dear friend. He offered his talent when it counted most and we will miss him sorely. Brian Stokes Mitchell, Pres. Joseph P. Benincasa, Executive Director The Actors' Fund of America
        ORBACH--Jerry. We will sorely miss our member of thirty years, Jerry Orbach. Devoted members, friends Board of Directors The Lone Star Boat Club
      