
        ZIMMERMAN--Anne Templeton, M.D. The John Templeton Foundation mourns the passing of Anne Templeton Zimmerman, M.D., a physician and activist, who died Thursday December 16 while undergoing heart surgery. Zimmerman was the only daughter of the world-renowned pioneer of the global mutual fund, Sir John Templeton, and the wife of former Wyoming State Senator, Gail Zimmerman. Dr. Zimmerman earned her medical degree from Case-Western Reserve University School of Medicine in 1974. Prior to that she worked in neuropsychological research at Massachusetts General Hospital and taught Biological Sciences near Boston and in Gaberones, Botswana, with the Peace Corps. After her marriage to Gail Zimmerman, Ph.D. in 1980, she opened a surgical practice in Casper, Wyoming. In addition, Dr. Zimmerman practiced clinical medicine in an urgent care clinic, and served as the Medical Director of the Natrona County Detention Center in Casper. She retired from her medical practice in 2003 to devote more time to the cause of international religious freedom, to take aid to those who are suffering and dying because of their faith and to specifically come alongside fellow Christians worldwide. In 1997, Zimmerman, Betsy Vigneri and Lisa Scaling founded the American chapter of the international human rights organization Christian Solidarity Worldwide (CSW). The group promotes human rights around the world, and in particular the basic rights of Christians in nations where they are persecuted. Her involvement with CSW took Zimmerman to the Sudan many times. Zimmerman's first trip to the war-torn African nation was made with Baroness Caroline Cox, the founder of CSW and a member of the House of Lords in the UK. She participated as a leading member of CSW buying the freedom of women and children who had been enslaved. Anne Templeton Zimmerman was a trustee of the John Templeton Foundation, established by her Father, Sir John Templeton in 1987 in Conshohocken, Pennsylvania. She is survived by her husband; her father; her children Rhonda, Mitchell, Michael and Renee Sterling; brothers John Templeton Jr., M.D., president of the John Templeton Foundation, and Christopher Templeton; a stepsister Wendy Brooks, and seven grandchildren. The funeral will be on Wednesday, December 22, 2004 at Highland Park Church, 411 South Walsh Drive in Casper, Wyoming. The John Templeton Foundation
      