
        KESSEL--Morris C., age 101, on November 30, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Jeanette. Loving father of Paul Kessel. Cherished grandfather of Erika Kessel. Devoted uncle of Muriel Gayle. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Service Sunday, December 5, 9:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Parker Jewish Institute, 291-11 76th Avenue, New Hyde Park, NY 11040.
        KESSEL -- Morris C. The Board of Trustees, Administration, Associate Board and League of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation deeply mourn the passing of Murry Kessel, a beloved friend & Chairman Emeritus. Murry Kessel's interest, enthusiasm & commitment to Parker were truly extraordinary. He became one of our elder statesmen, whose extended ''family'' always included the residents and patients of Parker Jewish Institute. On behalf of the thousands upon thousands of elderly men & women whose health and well being is improved by the programs and services which he championed and so generously supported, we will forever be grateful. His strong sense of caring and spirit of giving stand as a model of dedication to the mission of the Institute and the older adults we serve. We offer our sincere condolences to son, Dr. Paul Kessel, granddaughter Erika and the entire Kessel family. Jerry Landsberg, Chairman of the Board Michael N. Rosenblut, President and Chief Executive Officer
        KESSEL--Morris C. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family--particularly our more than 700 volunteers-acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and Honorary Trustee Morris C. Kessel. His generosity to Beth Israel is reflected in the naming of The Jeanette and Morris C. Kessel Volunteer Services Department, which serves as a lasting memorial to him and to his late wife who served for more than 50 years as a Beth Israel volunteer. Mr. Kessel's philanthropic endeavors also were a reflection of his deep friendships with Martin M. Feuer, M.D., former Associate Chairman of the Department of Medicine, and the late Beth Israel Trustee Abraham Malamut. To his son Paul, his granddaughter Erica, the entire Kessel family and all of his loved ones, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Thomas Killip, M.D. Interim President & CEO Donald Kastenbaum, M.D. President, Medical Board Terry Williams, Director of Volunteer Services
      