
        ROTHSCHILD--Steven J. On December 23rd, 2004, Mr. Rothschild passed away in his Greenville home at the age of 60. He was surrounded by his loving family. For the past 15 months he valiantly battled a rare form of brain cancer. Mr. Rothschild's legacy included a life filled with passion for his family, serving his community, achieving excellence in the workplace, and a desire to travel the world. Steve exemplified the rare combination of high intelligence tempered by gentle humor. He lived every day to its fullest, never wasting a moment. In his limited spare time he ran marathons, baked breads that he delivered to any and all who would accept them, raced cars and took up golf. He devoted his private time to his family, a value taught to him by his parents, the late Alfred and Ilse Rothschild. He was the Managing Partner of the Delaware office of Skadden Arps, which he helped found more than 25 years ago. In addition to being a successful attorney and business leader, Mr. Rothschild was committed to and passionate about serving his community. His community service included, but was not limited to, having served as President of United Way, President of The Kutz Home for the Aged, President of The Delaware Art Museum, and Finance Chair for Senator Carper. As importantly, he was a mentor not only to his sons, but also to young leaders in the broader community. Steven Rothschild touched the lives of those who knew him. His desire to give back to his professional and social communities carried over into the field of education. Mr. Rothschild taught at the law schools of both Georgetown and The University of Pennsylvania as an adjunct professor, and served as a trustee of the University of Delaware. He is survived by his wife and soul mate of 38 years Carol, sons Jeffrey Lee (Debra) and Peter Elliot (Elana), brother Edgar and grandchildren Jonathan Evan and Sydney Eva. A private interment will be held in New York. Shiva will be observed at 7 pm, Tuesday and Wednesday, December 28th and 29th, at his residence. A memorial service will be held at 12 noon, Tuesday, January 4th, 2005, at Congregation Beth Shalom, 18th and Baynard Blvd, Wilmington, DE. In lieu of flowers, the family suggests contributions to either the Jewish Federation of Delaware, Suite 301, 100 W. 10th St, Wilmington, DE 19801; American Cancer Society, 92 Reads Way, New Castle, DE 19720; or United Way of Delaware, 625 N. Orange St, Wilmington, DE 19801. For information, Schoenberg Memorial Chapel.
        ROTHSCHILD--Steven J. The partners, associates and staff of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom mourn the loss of our beloved partner and friend Steven J. Rothschild who died on December 23, 2004 at home in Wilmington, Delaware. We extend our deepest condolences to Carol and the entire Rothschild family. A memorial service will be planned at a later date.
      