
        STRAUSS -- Alice Hanauer, passed away on Monday, December 6, 2004 at Brandy Station, VA. She was born March 15, 1903 in New York City, the daughter of Jerome J. and Carrie H. Hanauer and was the wife of the late Rear Admiral Lewis L. Strauss. Mrs. Strauss grew up in New York City and attended Vassar College. She was a skilled potter and also competed in saddle horse shows in Westchester County, NY. She moved to Washington, DC in early 1941 with her husband and she was an operating room nurse's aide during World War II. She maintained a DC residence until her death. Mrs. Strauss was a member of the board of The Robert E. Lee Foundation, President of the board of the Women's Hospital of Philadelphia and a DC trustee of the National Symphony Orchestra Association. Information: Joseph Gawler's Sons, Inc. Funeral service will be held at Washington Hebrew Congregation, 3935 Macomb St. NW, Wash., DC 20016 on Thursday, December 9, 2004 at 3PM and interment will be at Salem Fields Cemetery on Long Island, NY. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to one of the following charitable organizations: Recording for the Blind & Dyslexic of Metropolitan Washington, 5225 Wisconsin Ave. NW, Wash., DC 20015; MWC ARCS Foundation, Inc, c/o Mrs. Jane G. Poe, Endowment Treasurer, 1324 Pine Tree Rd., McLean, VA 22101; Culpeper VA Regional Hospital Foundation, Attn: Ms. Melinda S. Hancock, Executive Director, 219 E. Davis St., Suite 330, Culpeper, VA 22701. Survivors include a son (another son died in infancy), three grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
        STRAUSS--Alice H. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Alice H. Strauss. Wife of our late Past President Admiral Lewis L. Strauss. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres Herbert C. Bernard, Sec'y
      