
        O'CONNOR--Thomas D. 74, of Loudonville, NY, beloved husband of Nancy Breck O'Connor for over 49 years died Tuesday November 30, 2004 at Albany Medical Center. Born in Waterford he was the son of the late George E. and Annabel Gallagher O'Connor. He was raised in Waterford and attended Albany Academy and graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in Portsmouth, NH. He was a graduate of Yale University with a B.A. degree in English. He was a Lieutenant in the United States Air Force serving in the Korean War. Mr. O'Connor was currently the Chairman of the family owned and operated Mohawk Paper Mills, Inc. in Cohoes where he also formerly served as president and has been a part of for over 50 years. He was resided in Loudonville for over 48 years and maintained a summer residence in Watch Hill, RI and a winter home in North Palm Beach, FL. He was a communicate of St Pius X Roman Catholic Church. Tom was a member of the Knights of Malta, the Fort Orange Club and Schuyler Meadows Country Club, the Misquamicut Club and the Lost Tree Club. He was a former member of the Albany Medical Center Board of Directors and also a past-president. He was the past-president of the board of trustees of Siena College in Loudonville. He was a founder and past-president of St. Gregory's School. He was also a member of the board of directors for the State Bank of Albany and later Norstar and Fleet-Norstar. Survivors in addition to his wife include his loving children, Tom (Susie) O'Connor, Ted (Trish) O'Connor, Joe (Joan) O'Connor, John (Carrie) O'Connor all of Loudonville, Elizabeth (Stan) McInnes of Bethel, PA, Mary (Chris) Morgan, of Amherst, NH and Mark (Deirdre) O'Connor of Darien, CT; his two sisters, Annabel (Peter) Strife of New York City and Frances Hardart of Bronxville. He is also survived by 26 cherished grandchildren, several nieces and nephews. Tom was predeceased by his brother George O'Connor and brother-in-law Frank Hardart. Funeral services will be Friday, December 3, 2004 at 12:00 noon in St Pius X Roman Catholic Church, 23 Crumite Road, Loudonville where a Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated byFather William McConville OFM and the Very Reverend Michael Farano. Relatives and friends are invited and may call at St. Pius X Roman Catholic Church on Thursday from 3-8 p.m. Interment will be in St. Agnes Cemetery in Menands. Contributions to the Massachusetts General Hospital, Cancer Center, 55 Fruit St. Boston, MA 02114 in memory of Thomas D. O'Connor would be appreciated. For information contact Dufresne and Cavanaugh Funeral Home in Latham. 518-785-8161
      