
        FISHER--Richard B. The Rockefeller University deeply mourns the death of our beloved Board Chairman, Richard Fisher. Our sense of loss is immense, and our hearts and thoughts are with the Fisher family at this difficult time. Dick was a cherished member of the University community. He joined the Rockefeller board in 1994 and became its Chairman in 1998. The University was fortunate to have the benefit of his enormously effective leadership. His quiet strength and deep integrity meshed beautifully with a generosity and hugeness of heart. Dick possessed a remarkable ability to listen to others and build consensus, while encouraging debate and ensuring that all voices were heard. While we are bereft of a beloved leader, colleague, and friend, we give thanks for a life extraordinarily well lived. A man of deep intellectual curiosity, Dick was a remarkable business and civic leader, an enlightened patron of the arts, and a philanthropist of generosity and distinction. Among many other qualities, he will be remembered for his warmth, wit, and kindness. He was a great man, and he will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Jeanne; his three children; and everyone whose life he touched. ''The ball I threw while playing in the park has not yet reached the ground.'' -Dylan Thomas. Paul Nurse, President Torsten Wiesel President Emeritus David Rockefeller Honorary Chairman Richard Furlaud Chairman Emeritus Russell Carson Vice Chairman of the Board Michael Young, Richard and Jeanne Fisher Professor The Rockefeller University
        FISHER--Richard B. The staff and Trustees and The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of Richard Fisher. Dick was a member of our Chairman's Council and a collector of American art. Along with his wife Jeanne, he was a civic leader and a dynamic supporter of the arts. We extend our sympathies to his entire family, and especially to Jeanne and his three children. David Rockefeller Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder Chairman Robert B. Menschel President Glenn D. Lowry Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        FISHER--Richard B. The Trustees of the American Fund for the Tate Gallery are deeply saddened by the death of their fellow Trustee and Benefactor of Tate Modern, Richard B. Fisher. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Jeannie, and all members of his family. Henry Christensen III Sir Edwin Manton Sandra Niles Lady Lynn de Rothschild Sir Nicholas Serota Allen Staley
        FISHER--Richard B. Knoedler & Company deeply mourns the passing of Richard B. Fisher. Dick was a passionate and spirited collector, a hugely respected, devoted patron, and always a loyal and generous friend. A man of integrity and courage, Dick was truly ''best in class''. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wonderful wife, Jeanne Donovan Fisher, and the entire family. Ann Freedman, President Knoedler & Company
        FISHER--Richard B. The Paris Review notes with sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague Richard B. Fisher. A director of The Paris Review Foundation, he was a generous supporter of the magazine and a truly unique friend to the literary world and the arts. We extend our deepest sympathies to the Fisher family.
      