
        FATEMI--Shayesteh S. Wife of the late diplomat, author and Fairleigh Dickinson University distinguished professor, Dr. Nasrollah S. Fatemi, died Friday at Pascack Valley Hospital. She was 90 years old and lived in Saddle River, NJ, for the last 50 years. Mrs. Fatemi, whose maiden name was Ostovar, was born in Isfahan, Iran. She was the president of the Red Crescent Society, the counterpart of the the American Red Cross, during the 1940's. She taught literature before coming to the United States in 1948, with her three sons, to join her husband. Dr. Fatemi, who died in 1990, served as Iran's delegate to the United Nations in the early 1950's. He often credited his wife as his inspiration for his involvement in public service, including his earlier service as a mayor, governor and member of the Iranian Parliament. Mrs. Fatemi worked side-by-side with her husband during his teaching career at Princeton University and Fairleigh Dickinson University where, in 1971, he founded the Graduate Institute of International Studies and wrote most of his nine books. Over the years, Mrs. Fatemi hosted many political leaders and foreign dignitaries at her home in Saddle River. She is survived by three sons, Faramarz and his wife Afsar of Ho Ho Kus, NJ, Fariborz and his wife Nancy of McLean, VA, and Farivar and his wife Sondae of Hewitt, NJ, and two grandchildren, Roshanak and Hussein. Also surviving is her sister, Andalib Ravar of Geneva, Switzerland. She was predeceased by a granddaughter, Faranak Fatemi Moir, in 2002. Funeral services are private. The family will receive friends on Sunday, December 26, 2004, from 5-8 pm, at 47 Chestnut Ridge Rd, Saddle River, NJ. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that contributions be made to the Dr. Nasrollah S. Fatemi University Chair in International Affairs, c/o School of History, Political and International Studies, FDU, 1000 River Rd, Teaneck, NJ 07666. For information, Vander Plaat Funeral Home, 257 Godwin Ave, Wyckoff, NJ 07481. www.vanderplaatfuneral home.com
      