
        SILBERSTEIN--William, a devoted family man and a passionate and accomplished athlete, who after an extraordinary career as an entrepreneur, generously devoted his life to philanthropy, died Wednesday night at New York University Medical Center. He was 88. Born in Brooklyn, NY, in 1916, Silberstein was a 'Hoosier' at heart. He attended Indiana University on a basketball and tennis scholarship and was a key member of the university's 1935 ''Big 10'' Basketball championship team. It was there he met his wife of 61 years, Sylvia Levin. They married October 12, 1937, in Crown Point, Ind. Shortly after college Mr. Silberstein started a chain of jewelry stores. He also ventured into the real estate business. It was after the Silbersteins moved to Scarsdale in 1950 that Mr. Silberstein with the dedicated help of his wife founded Sealectro Corp., a lucrative electronic components company, which went public in the 1970s and was later sold to BICC in 1981. Today the company is currently known as ITT Sealectro. The Silbersteins relocated to Rye in 1968, where Mr. Silberstein has resided since. Mrs. Silberstein passed away in 1998. In 1985 Mr. Silberstein established William Silberstein Associates, Inc. in Mamaroneck, New York. The organization provides operational assistance to manufacturing concerns, acquisitional evaluation of companies and organizes capital ventures. The Silbersteins shared a deep philosophy for giving back to the community. The couple owns the distinction as donors of the first fully endowed athletic scholarship in the history of Indiana University. Each year three fully endowed athletic scholarships are given to the basketball players for notable achievements. Locally, their generosity has extended to the medical community. At the White Plains Hospital Center, The William and Sylvia Silberstein Neonatal and Maternity Center, Silberstein Pavilion and Silberstein Cardiology Center and the sponsored William and Sylvia Silberstein Aging and Dementia Research Institute at New York University Medical Center were all established through the financial support of Mr. and Mrs. Silberstein. The couple also established a foundation in their names, the William and Sylvia Silberstein Foundation, to support other charitable causes including The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation and the United Jewish Appeal. Above all of his successful enterprises and life accomplishments, William Silberstein always placed his family and friends first. He gave and received bounteous love, joy, and wholeness through his children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. William Silberstein is survived by a daughter, Betsy Levinson; a son, Bruce, and his wife, Carolyn; a son, Sigmund; his five grandchildren, Beth Grotta, Jill Altneu, Debbie Deitz, Michael Silberstein and Matthew Silberstein; and three great - grandchildren, Mat thew and Lindsey Grotta, and Brooke Altneu. ''I had a life replete with excitement and challenges. My success can be attributed to luck, hard work, and timing. I love being around people and have been fortunate in having in my life, my family and many good friends,'' said Silberstein, reflecting on his life in a 2000 interview. A service will be held at 1 PM on Sunday, January 2, 2005, Congregation Emanuel in Rye, NY. The surviving family of William Silberstein has requested all donations be sent to the White Plains Hospital Center Neonatal and Maternity Center, Davis Avenue and East Post Road, White Plains, NY 10601.
        SILBERSTEIN--William. The Board of Directors, management and staff of White Plains Hospital Center mourn with extreme sorrow the passing of our dear friend, board member and benefactor, Mr. William Silberstein. Willie's, along with his beloved late wife Sylvia's, participation and contribution to our hospital stand nearly 20 years and have done much to make possible our preeminent position as the leading health care provider in Westchester County. His dedicated support helped to create the William and Sylvia Silberstein Neonatal and Maternity Center, the William and Sylvia Silberstein Cardiology Center, and the William and Sylvia Silberstein Pavilion. Willie's devotion to the Hospital was extraordinary and he was a respected philanthropist who was deeply committed to improving the quality of life for families and children. His endearing nature and vivacious spirit will be missed by all of us. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his children: Sigmund Silberstein, Betsy Levinson, Bruce Silberstein, and his grandchildren and greatgrandchildren.
        SILBERSTEIN--William. The faculty and staff of New York University School of Medicine express their deep regret and sadness on the death of our friend and benefactor. Mr. Silberstein and his family have been long time supporters of the School, and their generosity and participation have touched the lives of students, colleagues and many other members of our community. NYU's William and Sylvia Silberstein Institute for Aging and Dementia will stand as an enduring tribute to his vision and commitment. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire Silberstein family. Kenneth G. Langone, Chairman, NYU School of Medicine, Foundation Board of Trustees Robert M. Glickman, M.D., Dean, NYU School of Medicine
        SILBERSTEIN--William. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of William Silberstein, whose generosity and vision helped strengthen the Jewish community in Westchester & beyond. William, along with his beloved late wife Sylvia, were philanthropic leaders, esteemed for their lifelong commitment to Jewish, academic, and health-related causes. We extend our deepest sympathies to his children Betsy, Bruce, and Sigmund; to his grandchildren; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        SILBERSTEIN--William. The world has lost a wonderful man. Our heartfelt condolences extend to our dear friends Carolyn and Bruce, their children Michael, Matthew and Devon and the entire Silberstein family. Joel, Maura, Glen, Juliet and Eric
        SILBERSTEIN--William. The Board of Directors and members of Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, William Silberstein. We send our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Steven M. Slaven, President Thomas W. Brock, Secretary
        SILBERSTEIN--William. The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation mourns the passing of a caring friend and benefactor whose generosity impacted the future lives of many. Doris Tulcin
      