
        HERSCHER--Sylvia. On Wednesday, December 29, 2004, age 91, peacefully at home. Beloved wife of the late Seymour. She leaves behind her many many dear relatives and friends. Survived by children Miriam, David, Elaine, and Leonard; and grandchildren Michael and Sam. Funeral service Friday, December 31, 10AM at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave. (crnr of 91st St., tel: 212-769-4400). In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be made to either the Visiting Nurse Service of NY Hospice Care (VNSNY), 1250 Broadway, NY NY 10001-3701 or Mt. Sinai Visiting Doctors Program, 5 E. 102 St., 8th flr, New York New York 10029-6547.
        HERSCHER--Sylvia. Honorary Trustee and Trustee for over 30 years. Her wise counsel, devotion to musical theatre, uncanny ability to select dramatic-musical works of enduring value (ANNIE), and genuine love of theatre represented a unique contribution to Goodspeed. On behalf of the Trustees and staff members privileged to work with her, we extend to Miriam, David and Leonard our sympathy. We share your loss. Goodspeed Opera House Foundation DeRoy C. Thomas, President Michael P. Price Executive Director
        HERSCHER -- Sylvia. Dear Sylvia, You have left an indelible imprint on my life as my mentor, my guide, my most valued critic, and my life-long loyal and loving friend. How I'll miss you. How I loved you. And how many times I'll hear your voice in my mind when I wonder--what would Sylvia say? I was so privileged to be a part of your extended family, and send my heartfelt sympathy to Miriam, David, Michael and Sam. Jerry Herman
        HERSCHER -- Sylvia. More than mourning her passing, I am one of the many who will greatly miss her presence. Her interest, warmth and enthusiastic support is legendary. With deepfelt condolences to her children Miriam and David, her grandsons Michael and Sam, and to the members of her extended family and her many devoted friends. Bella Linden
        HERSCHER--Sylvia. Mentor, friend, confidant. A towering strength to all who were graced by her presence. For those privileged to bask in her wisdom, our lives will forever reflect her devotion to life's joys. A true daughter of Zion and Jerusalem. Davida and Alvin Deutsch
        HERSCHER--Sylvia. We will miss our esteemed member and colleague. The League of Professional Theatre Women
      