
        JUDD--Eugene C., age 80, passed away peacefully on December 12, 2004. Beloved husband, partner and friend for 40 years of Inge, father of Jamie, Jason, Jodie, Jeramie and Heidi. Grandfather to Ryan, Jessie, Jordan, Skye, Zoe and Jake. Gene Cofounded and served as President of Judd-Falk, the innovative New York based executive search firm specializing in the world of consumer packaged goods, financial services, and direct marketing. Respected as a leader in the recruiting industry Gene was instrumental in guiding the company to one of the most highly successful boutique firms of its time. Gene started his professional career in the advertising industry first writing copy then switching to account management at such prestigious firms as Doyle Dane Bernbach and Ted Bates. He was an ex-vice president and member of the New York Amateur Comedy Club, the oldest continuous amateur acting club in the United States. For many years the Club served as a forum for his wide range of acting skills, comedy being his forte. He served as a Combat Infantryman and Lieutenant with the Army's C.I.D in Germany and France during World War II. Gene proudly held a B.A. from Penn State and performed post-graduate work at New York University. He is survived by his beloved wife, Inge, brother Jerry, sister Edith Ruben, children and grandchildren. His fabulous wit and humor will be sorely missed by friends and family. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Alzheimer's Foundation.
        JUDD--Eugene C. 1924-2004, beloved husband of Inge Judd. Gene darling, thank you for 40 years of being my friend, partner and husband. For having the foresight, imagination, creativity and knowledge to build Judd Falk into a premier recruiting firm acknowledged and respected in the industry. For the adventures of traveling the globe, working hard, playing hard, eating well and learning about fine wines. For promising to give me a laugh or giggle every day of our married life and leaving me with a surplus. You are in my heart. Inge Sweetheart
        JUDD--Eugene C., retired Member of the Amateur Comedy Club, passed away on Saturday, December 11, 2004. Gene joined the Club in 1967. He was active both on stage and backstage, appearing in a number of major productions as well as producing several plays. Gene served on a number of committees and was Vice President of the Club when he retired. Together with his dear wife, Inge, he brought laughter and good cheer to the Club. We will not forget the wonderful parties at their Murray Hill town house. We will miss him.
      