
        LANDAU--Martin, peacefully passed away the evening of Dec 27, 2004, surrounded by his wife of 61 years, Bernice F. Landau (Bobbie), his oldest daughter Madeline Landau, a political anthropologist, and his youngest daughter Claudia Landau, MD, gerontology. Marty Landau (as he would say, ''the school teacher, not the actor'') was born in 1921 in Brooklyn, New York, to Harry and Clara Landau and is survived by his brothers, Gerry and Herb, and his sister Bernice. After distinguished service in the U.S. Army during World War II, Martin received his BA from Brooklyn College and Ph.D. in Political Science from New York University of New York-joining the Department of Political Science at U.C. Berkeley in 1971, where he taught until retirement. He was the recipient of numerous awards for his renowned teaching and scholarly work in organization theory, decision theory and the philosophy of social science-which included the application of the theory of redundancy to the design of effective organizational systems. His awards include the Danforth Foundation Harbison Award for Distinguished Teaching and Scholarship, and the Docteur Honoris Causa from the University of Paris. He served as a John Simon Guggenheim Fellow; a fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences; and as a senior fellow at the National Academy of Public Administration. Martin founded and directed the Hong Kong Project for 17 years-a professional development program in organization and decision theory, funded by the Hong Kong Government, at the Goldman School of Public Policy. He served as a consultant on organizational design in the United States and abroad, including Thailand, Italy, France, the Philippines and Nepal. Martin Landau supported the labor movement and the civil rights movement - contributing to Thurgood Marshall's historic planning sessions for Brown Vs the Board of Education. He was dedicated to the racial integration of education and all institutions - and worked closely with Horace Bond at Lincoln University and with John H. Franklin at Brooklyn College. His motto was FDR's ''the only thing to fear is fear itself''. His political and intellectual commitment will continue through an application of organization theory to effective strategies of social change for the poor and discriminated ethnic communities in the United States. Gifts and donations in his memory can be made to the Martin Landau Center on Organization and Social Change at the Institute of Governmental Studies, at U.C. Berkeley (510) 642-1474. Or contact Madeline Landau at (510) 841-5948.
      