
        GOULD--Stuart S. Our family announces with sorrow the passing of a wonderful father, father - in - law, grandfather and great-grandfather at 98 years of age. He truly lived the American dream and we all benefited from that. Although he is gone, he will never be forgotten and we will all cherish the wonderful memories of the good times we had together. We were fortunate to have you for a very, very long time but it doesn't make losing you any easier. We love you and always will. Funeral will be held on Tuesday, December 21 at noon at Temple Judea in Manhasset located at 333 Searingtown Road (on the westerly side of Searingtown Road just north of the Long Island Expressway).
        GOULD--Stuart S. the partners, officers, directors and employees of Gould Investors L.P., BRT Realty Trust and One Liberty Properties, Inc. mourn with profound sadness the loss of one of their beloved founders. Stuart leaves us lasting impressions of inspiring leadership matched only by his unequaled and unwavering integrity and morality, which will always remain a part of our heritage. He built a lifelong reputation for his business acumen mixed with steadfast civic leadership and widespread philanthropic endeavors. He will be fondly remembered forever, as a leader, mentor, teacher and role model, by all of us who were fortunate enough to have witnessed him enriching the lives of so many around him.
        GOULD--Stuart. We all know from whence came the twinkle in Stuart's eyes. A lifetime of embracing and loving life itself, sharing so many joyful celebrations with the girl of his dreams, his adoring, fun-loving Byrdie, and living to see his children become fine men and wonderful husbands and fathers who imbued in their children the lessons Stuart had taught them-to be charitable and kind and considerate and helpful to others and to understand the importance of a good name. We extend our sincere condolences to Fred and Helaine, Jay and Luetta and to all of Stuart's fabulous grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Our thoughts are with you. Herrick, Feinstein LLP
        GOULD--Stuart. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stuart Gould, a treasured leader who, together with his family, helped renew and strengthen Jewish life. We extend our deepest sympathies to Stuart's children: Fred, and his wife Helaine; Jay, and his wife Louetta; to his grandchildren: Wendy, and her husband Steven; Jeff, & his wife, Bonni; Matthew, & his wife, Fern; Susan; and Hal; to his eight great-grandchildren; & to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        GOULD--Stuart S. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board and Administration of Parker Jewish Institute deeply mourn the passing of Stuart Gould. A Founder of the Institute, Stuart and his late wife, Byrdie, were wonderful friends whose kindness and generosity helped thousands of elderly. Our heartfelt condolences to children Fred and Helaine, Jay and Luetta, and the entire Gould family. Jerry Landsberg, Chairman of the Board Michael N. Rosenblut, President/CEO
        GOULD--Stuart S. Stuart led by example. Kind, considerate, understanding, generous and philanthropic, we will never forget the lessons he imparted and cherish the 45 years we were privileged to have known him. We mourn with Fred and Helaine, Jay and Luetta, the family and the extended family. The Brinbergs/Lundys
        GOULD--Stuart S. Truly a man who placed responsibilities above selfishness and personal gain. His central thought in life was ''think of what I can do for someone else.'' Stuart's 98 years certianly was a life long in achievement. Robin and Mike Brooke and Gary Robin and Keith
      