
        SAFFER--Charles Martin Jr. A devoted spouse to his surviving wife, Elizabeth, an ever supportive hand to his son, Martin, and loving family patriarch. Charles Saffer, the son of the late Charles M. Saffer and Helen (Ellen) F. Nevins Saffer, was born in Salem, MA on December 15, 1914 and died peacefully at home in the presence of his son, wife, stepdaughter and two grandchildren on November 21, 2004. Charles received his PhD in Chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1938 and was awarded the Moore Traveling Fellowship to Oxford University where he was a Research Fellow in Chemistry in 1939. He was subsequently awarded an Honorary M.A. from Christ Church, Oxford in 1973. He was also a Research Assistant in Chemistry at Harvard University in 1940. He was a member of the Philadelphia Branch of the Oxford Society and served as Honorary Secretary. Dr. Saffer was awarded several U.S. Patents and one French Patent. Dr. Saffer was Technical Director of Inorganic Specialties Division of Witco Corporation and retired in 1982. Dr. Saffer was a Naval Officer from 1941-46 and saw two tours of duty in combat (E.T.O.) and retired for physical disability as Lieutenant Commander. Dr. Saffer was a member of the Army and Navy Club, Washington D.C., the American Chemical Society and the Association of Harvard Chemists. Dr. Saffer published articles in the Journal of the American Chemical Society, Proceedings of the Royal Society and the Journal of Organic Chemistry. In addition to his wife and son, Charles was survived by Jo-Ann Willison and Diane Thomas, his stepdaughters, his sister, Lucille Ackerman, his niece, Ellen Kaviar, and nephew, Dr. Joseph Ackerman, three grandsons, Charles, Patrick and Shannon Saffer, and step grandchildren, Guy Brudahl, Scott Brudahl, Lisa Wolf, Anna Jo Thomas and Sarah Beth Thomas. As well, he was survived by Robert Wolford and Barry Wolford, stepsons. Our revels now are ended. These our actors, As I foretold you, were all spirits and Are melted into the air, into thin air: And, like the baseless fabric of this vision, The cloud-capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces, The solemn temples, the great globe itself, Ye all which it inherit, shall dissolve And, like this insubstantial pageant faded, Leave not a rack behind. We are such stuff As dreams are made on, and our little life is rounded with a sleep The Tempest Act 4, Scene 1. For information contact the James J. Dougherty Funeral Home, Inc., Levittown, PA.
      