
        GOLDMAN--Enid. December 21. Age 73, New York City. Beloved mother of Richard and Jonathan, and the late David Goldman. Wife of the late Frederick Goldman and late Abe Terkowitz. Enid loved and adored her grandchildren Arielle, Chloe, Mikella, Chelsea, Grant, Ian, Jake and Clancy. Her grandchildren meant the world to her and in return, they gave her great Nachas. Enid leaves behind two sisters, Ellie and Eleanor, who prized their little sister Enid. In addition, Enid had a special relationship with Daniel and Beth Shak, who are truly wonderful. Enid was a founder of Frederick Goldman, Inc., and was loved and respected by all who knew her. She took a personal interest in making sure that all Goldman associates were comfortable and that their environment was friendly, bright and cheerful. Enid was also a Clinical Social Worker and a Credentialed Alcoholism Substance Abuse Counselor (CASAC). She was devoted to her patients and their wellbeing and her only concern was that she could not be available to them during her illness. Enid succumbed to her battle with pancreatic cancer. She fought hard for three years, and against all odds, participated in many Simchas during this struggle. She is eternally indebted to the fine staff at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, especially Dr. Robert Fine and his team. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the Enid Goldman Pancreatic Research Fund at New York Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia, 654 West 170th Street, N.Y., N.Y. 10032. The Family extends a special thanks to cousin Shelby and William Modell. Their devotion, love and guidance throughout Enid's illness will not be forgotten. Funeral Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street, NY, Thursday, 11:15 AM.
        GOLDMAN--Enid. The employees of Frederick Goldman, Inc. mourn the loss of one of their beloved family members and founders, Enid Goldman. Enid and her husband Frederick founded our company in 1948 and developed it into a worldwide leading manufacturer of fine jewelry. Her vision and guidance has been an inspiration to all of us. Enid leaves us with memories of her kindness, fortitude and integrity. Her strength and spirit showed all of us how important living each day was. We will remember her as a friend, a teacher, and a role model. Our condolences to children Jonathan and Richard, and the entire Goldman family.
      