
        FISHER--Richard B. The Rockefeller University deeply mourns the death of our beloved Board Chairman, Richard Fisher. Our sense of loss is immense, and our hearts and thoughts are with the Fisher family at this difficult time. Dick was a cherished member of the University community. He joined the Rockefeller board in 1994 and became its Chairman in 1998. The University was fortunate to have the benefit of his enormously effective leadership. His quiet strength and deep integrity meshed beautifully with a generosity and hugeness of heart. Dick possessed a remarkable ability to listen to others and build consensus, while encouraging debate and ensuring that all voices were heard. While we are bereft of a beloved leader, colleague, and friend, we give thanks for a life extraordinarily well lived. A man of deep intellectual curiosity, Dick was a remarkable business and civic leader, an enlightened patron of the arts, and a philanthropist of generosity and distinction. Among many other qualities, he will be remembered for his warmth, wit, and kindness. He was a great man, and he will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Jeanne; his three children; and everyone whose life he touched. ''The ball I threw while playing in the park has not yet reached the ground.'' -Dylan Thomas. Paul Nurse, President Torsten Wiesel President Emeritus David Rockefeller Honorary Chairman Richard Furlaud Chairman Emeritus Russell Carson Vice Chairman of the Board Michael Young, Richard and Jeanne Fisher Professor The Rockefeller University
        FISHER -- Richard B. We mourn Dick Fisher's untimely death and extend our sympathy and support to his wife, Jeanne, and family. Our paths never crossed on Wall Street but over the past ten years we got to know, esteem and love this extraordinary man who gave so much back while enriching the academic world and the performing arts. Dick's generosity is well documented, but he gave more than money. He was the leader who lead by example, intensity of purpose, compromise and intellectual commitment to seemingly unobtainable goals. He was a true Renaissance man whose scope embraced the financial world and the arts with equal brilliance. This is a terrible loss for all, because Dick Fisher had so much more to do. Toni and Martin Sosnoff
        FISHER--Richard B. The Board of Directors and staff of Manhattan Theatre Club mourn the passing of Richard B. Fisher. Dick was a steadfast friend and generous supporter of MTC since its earliest days as an Off-Off Broadway theatre. Recently he and his wife, Jeanne, provided vital support for our restoration of Broadway's historic Biltmore Theatre. Dick's love of theatre and the arts endeared him to all of us in New York's cultural community. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to Jeanne and to all his family. Peter J. Solomon, Chairman of the Board Michael Coles, Chairman Emeritus Lynne Meadow, Artistic Director Barry Grove, Executive Producer
        FISHER--Richard B. Knoedler & Company deeply mourns the passing of Richard B. Fisher. Dick was a passionate and spirited collector, a hugely respected, devoted patron, and always a loyal and generous friend. A man of integrity and courage, Dick was truly ''best in class''. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wonderful wife, Jeanne Donovan Fisher, and the entire family. Ann Freedman, President Knoedler & Company
        FISHER--Richard. Very few people are lucky enough to have a guardian angel come into their life. I was fortunate enough to have Dick Fisher as my guardian angel. Dick was the personification of honesty, integrity, kindness and gentleness. I will miss him and remember him always. Dick will be my mentor for the rest of my life. Jeffrey Kalinsky Jeffrey Atlanta & New York
        FISHER--Richard B. The Board of Directors of Classroom Inc., mourns the loss of Richard B. Fisher, longtime director, wise counselor, generous donor and exceptional colleague. He touched the lives of so many people. He will be deeply missed but never forgotten. Lewis W. Bernard, Chairman Stephen Perepeluk, President
        FISHER--Richard B. The trustees and staff of The Library of America are saddened by the death of Richard B. Fisher, a friend and patron of American letters. We send our sympathy to his family and colleagues. Cheryl Hurley, President Richard Poirier, Chairman
      