
        FISHER--Richard B. The Rockefeller University deeply mourns the death of our beloved Board Chairman, Richard Fisher. Our sense of loss is immense, and our hearts and thoughts are with the Fisher family at this difficult time. Dick was a cherished member of the University community. He joined the Rockefeller board in 1994 and became its Chairman in 1998. The University was fortunate to have the benefit of his enormously effective leadership. His quiet strength and deep integrity meshed beautifully with a generosity and hugeness of heart. Dick possessed a remarkable ability to listen to others and build consensus, while encouraging debate and ensuring that all voices were heard. While we are bereft of a beloved leader, colleague, and friend, we give thanks for a life extraordinarily well lived. A man of deep intellectual curiosity, Dick was a remarkable business and civic leader, an enlightened patron of the arts, and a philanthropist of generosity and distinction. Among many other qualities, he will be remembered for his warmth, wit, and kindness. He was a great man, and he will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Jeanne; his three children; and everyone whose life he touched. ''The ball I threw while playing in the park has not yet reached the ground.'' -Dylan Thomas. Paul Nurse, President Torsten Wiesel President Emeritus David Rockefeller Honorary Chairman Richard Furlaud Chairman Emeritus Russell Carson Vice Chairman of the Board Michael Young, Richard and Jeanne Fisher Professor The Rockefeller University
        FISHER--Richard B. The Board of Trustees, faculty, staff, and students of Bard College mourn the passing of Richard B. Fisher, Chair and former Treasurer of the Board of Trustees and recipient of the 2004 Bard Medal, on December 16, 2004. We extend our condolences to his family. Bard will cherish the memory and spirit of this extraordinary gentleman, patron, and friend. He is survived by a large and loving family, including his wife, Jeanne Donovan Fisher; three children, Britton, Kate (A.A. '85 Simon's Rock College of Bard), and Alexander (M.F.A.'96); their mother, Emily H. Fisher, Second Vice Chair of the Board of Trustees of Bard College and Chair of the Board of Overseers of Simon's Rock College of Bard; and his brother, David, and his family. Funeral services will be private; a memorial service will be held in late January in NYC. David E. Schwab II Chair Emeritus Leon Botstein President
        FISHER--Richard B. We are heartbroken that our dear friend and benefactor Dick Fisher, BAM Endowment Trust Chair since 1992, has passed. This institution would not be the success it is today without his guidance, leadership and support. There are no words adequate to describe the impact Dick had on everyone who knew him. He was brilliant, tough, kind, funny and possessed a singular love of life and strength of character. Our deepest condolences go to his wonderful wife, Jeanne Donovan Fisher; his daughter, Kate; and his sons, Alex and Britton Fisher and their wives, Jennifer and our own Lynn Stirrup. Karen Brooks Hopkins Joseph V. Melillo Alan H. Fishman Harvey Lichtenstein Brooklyn Academy of Music
        FISHER--Richard B. The Trustees, staff and dance artists of The Joyce Theater Foundation mourn the passing of our good friend. Father of our Trustee, Britton Fisher, Richard Fisher was a loyal supporter of The Joyce and was a tremendous force working on behalf of the arts for many years. We extend our deepest sympathy and condolences to Britton and his family. Stephen D. Weinroth, Chairman Linda Shelton, Executive Director
        FISHER--Richard B. The Board of Overseers, faculty, staff, and students of Simon's Rock College of Bard deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend Richard B. Fisher. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Mary B. Marcy, Vice President and Provost Emily H. Fisher, Chair U Ba Win, Dean
        FISHER--Richard B. We at the American Symphony Orchestra mourn the passing of Richard B. Fisher, respected friend. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Leon Botstein, Music Director Robert Fippinger, Chair Lynne Meloccaro, Executive Director
      