
        HOCHBERG--Rita. On November 28, 2004. After a long illness surrounded by her family. Adored wife of Irwin, beloved mother of Mitchell, Richard & Jonathan. Loving mother-in-law of Suzan and Stacy, Cherished Bubbe of Isabelle, Julia, Jordan, Ethan and Sabrina, loving sister-in-law of Sybil Barer and sister of Martin Tausner. She committed her time and energy in support of American Jewry and the State of Israel. She served on the Boards of U.J.A.-Federation of New York, Project Renewal-Hatikvah, N.Y. Association For New Americans, and Open University of Israel. She was a Hadassah Life Member and former chairman of the Great Neck ORT Chapter. She devoted her life to her family, especially her five grandchildren who meant so much to her. Her dedication to family and tzedakah will forever live on through her children and grandchildren. She will be missed dearly by so many and her memory will eternally remain in the hearts of all of us that loved her so much. The funeral was held Monday November 29, 2004 at Congregation Kneses Tifereth Israel, 575 King Street, Port Chester, NY. Interment followed at Sharon Gardens, Valhalla, NY. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the American Friends of the Open University of Israel or to the Rita Hochberg Fund at Westchester Medical Center to support the nurses in the Intensive Care Unit.
        HOCHBERG--Rita. The officers, board and staff of the American Friends and the Open University of Israel mourn the passing of Rita Hochberg, beloved wife of our President Irwin Hochberg. A cherished partner in her husband's philanthropic leadership efforts and a communal leader in her own right, Rita lived an inspirational life devoted to her family, Israel and the Jewish people. We extend our deepest sympathies to Irwin, their children Mitchell and Suzan, Jonathan and Stacey, Richard, their five grandchildren and the entire Hochberg family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jersusalem. Irving M. Rosenbaum, Chairman Emeritus, AFOUI Gershon Ben-Shakhar, President, Open University of Israel Shoshana Weisser, Director of Development
        HOCHBERG--Rita. The Officers and Board of Directors of the America-Israel Friendship League mourn the passing of the beloved wife of our dear friend and colleague, Irwin Hochberg. We extend our sincerest expressions of sympathy to him and to the entire Hochberg family. Kenneth J. Bialkin, Chairman of the Board Ilana Artman, Executive Vice President
      