
        BYRNE--Robert Atwell, Sr. Bank Executive Robert A. Byrne, a longtime member of the New York Financial Services and Banking industry, died Sunday at his home in Remsenburg, NY at the age of 77. His optimism, warmth, wit and loyalty endeared him to family, friends and colleagues alike. Born on October 6th, 1927 in Great Neck, N.Y., he attended the Great Neck Public Schools with his four brothers and sister. He entered the U.S. Army, serving until 1947. He then attended Yale University, graduating with the class of 1950 and spent his summers as a lifeguard at Jones Beach, N.Y. On June 26th, 1954, Mr. Byrne was lucky enough, as he often said, to marry the ''girl of his dreams and best friend'', Adelyn G. Stier, also of Great Neck, with whom he recently celebrated a 50th wedding anniversary. He began his professional career with Chase Manhattan Bank and earned his law degree from St. John's University before joining the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company in 1959. Mr. Byrne remained with Manufacturers Hanover for the remainder of his career, serving as Executive Vice President of the Corporate Trust Department (Geoserve Division). There he was renowned for his good faith, good humor and memorable client events that grew the Geoserve Business to become one of the most important to the institution. During his tenure, he earned an MBA from Harvard University. His ability to bring out the best in people earned him the admiration, friendship and respect of clients, colleagues and staff alike. An avid traveler, Mr. Byrne visited many countries throughout the world accompanied always by his wife. He loved to play golf, read mysteries, help others and most of all, to socialize with family and friends. His wife, Lynn; a daughter, Lindsay; two sons Robert Jr. and Christopher; 10 grandchildren; and a large, loving network of extended family and friends survive Mr. Byrne. For further information please contact Fairchild & Sons in Manhasset, N.Y., 516627-2000. Wake December 9, 3-5 and 7-9 P.M. Funeral December 10, 10:30 A.M. If desired, donations in lieu of flowers may be made in Mr. Byrne's memory to the St. Thomas Moore Building Fund at Yale University Fund or to the Westminster School Annual Fund in Simsbury, CT.
      