
        JOHNSON -- Philip. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our esteemed Trustee Philip Johnson. Philip was present at the opening of the Museum in 1929. He organized the Museum's first architecture and design exhibitions: ''The International Style'' in 1932 and ''Machine Art'' in 1934. In 1949 he was appointed the first director of the recently unified Department of Architecture and Design, stepping down in 1954 to become the first Chairman of the Trustee Committee on Architecture and Design, a position in which he served for thirty-seven years. Beginning in 1949, Philip designed numerous structures and spaces that visually enhanced the Museum, including the beloved Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden. The south facade of his 1964 East Wing, now beautifully restored as part of the Museum's recent renovation and expansion, stands as a tribute to his mid-career devotion to the International Style architecture of Mies van der Rohe. Philip bestowed upon the Museum an astounding munificence--in works of art as well as financial support--that will long be remembered in an institution that is known for the generosity of its leaders. Instrumental to the extraordinary breadth of the collection of the Department of Architecture and Design, his giving also touched almost every other curatorial department. The experience of visitors to The Museum of Modern Art would be decidedly diminished without the magnificent paintings Philip gave it, including Oskar Schlemmer's Bauhaus Stairway, Mark Rothko's Number 10, Jasper Johns's Flag, Andy Warhol's Gold Marilyn Monroe, and Roy Lichtenstein's Girl with a Ball. We extend our sympathies to David Whitney, his partner of forty-two years, to Mrs. John B. Dempsey, his sister, and to his entire family. David Rockefeller Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel President Glenn D. Lowry, Director Terence Riley, The Philip Johnson Chief Curator of Architecture and Design The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        JOHNSON--Philip. The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art notes with great sadness the passing of Philip Johnson, a member of the Council since 1955. Philip was one of the first people actively involved in shaping the Museum from the moment of its opening in 1929, and his contributions in architecture and design are legend. In additiion, he has immeasurably built our painting and sculpture collection with some of the most iconic works we own. His legacy is long and illustrious, but his wicked wit, sparkling presence and zest for life can never be replicated. We extend our deepest sympathy to his entire family, and especially to David Whitney, his partner, and Mrs. John B. Dempsey, his sister. Sir Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        JOHNSON -- Philip. Philip Johnson designed many buildings. We are proud he chose to live in Museum Tower overlooking the Sculpture Garden he created. Our sympathy to our neighbor and former board member, David Whitney. Toni Ausnit Flynn, President Ted Voss, Vice President Mary Jo Hausmann, Secy Richard Kandel, Treasurer Museum Tower Condominium
      