
        RAND--Harry I. Died on January 22, 2005, at the age of 92. A graduate of CCNY (1932) and NYU Law School (1936), he was a lover of humanity, poetry, music and always the law. Harry worked in the New Deal from 1938-1948 and then in private practice until his retirement in 2004. During that time, he represented scores of people before loyalty security boards and in federal courts during the McCarthy era. He was a pioneer in the field of art recovery law and represented publishing companies in many copyright matters. Harry was a general practitioner in the truest sense, enjoying and mastering every aspect of the practice of law. A consummate litigator and graceful advocate, whose writing was known for its simplicity and clarity. In addition, Harry was a revered teacher to many younger lawyers. He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Dr. Anna T. Rand; his children Steven (Marlyse), Deborah, Naomi (David); his grandchildren Sascha (Kalpana), Travis and Cody; his sister Jeanne; his in-laws Sam and Adele, to whom he was the most wonderful friend, husband, father, brother and grandfather imaginable. We are all proud and grateful to have loved and been loved by Harry. A memorial service will be held at the Ethical Culture Society, 2 W. 64 St., at 12 noon, on Sunday January 30, 2005.
        RAND--Harry I. We mourn with deep sorrow the passing on January 22, 2005 of Harry I. Rand, our friend & esteemed colleague who was counsel to our firm since January 1, 1990. His love for the practice of law was unparalleled, and he retired only a few months ago at the age of 92 after an extraordinary seventy year career in Washington, D.C. and New York. A superb advocate, a gifted trial lawyer and a special human being, Harry was truly a ''giant of the bar''. He proved time and time again that you can be a successful and tenacious litigator without compromising your civility and humanity. He elevated the law to an art and pursued it with a passion. Harry was indefatigable in his representation of his clients, often taking on unpopular causes or seemingly unwinnable cases and working miracles. Also a masterful writer and communicator, he was a teacher and mentor to so many young people who went on to become successful lawyers, judges and professors. And he did it all with wit, grace and charm. But he was also especially devoted to his wonderful family, and we extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Dr. Anna T. Rand, his children Steven (and his wife, Marlyse), Deborah and Naomi (and her husband, David), his grandchildren Sascha (and his wife, Kalpana), Travis and Cody and his entire family. Brilliant and incisive to the end, his contributions to the law will remain a lasting legacy. We shall always treasure his dignity, intelligence, creativity, energy and thoughtful counsel. We will miss him dearly. Herrick, Feinstein LLP
        RAND--Harry I. The legal profession has lost a great practitioner. We personally have lost a mentor, teacher, friend and partner. We have known Harry since our legal careers began more than thirty years ago. He taught us to strive for excellence in everything we do and to appreciate the unique adventure provided by a life in the law: the wonderful personal relationships forged, and the exquisite art of zealously representing clients while exhibiting dignity and grace. These were among his gifts to us and we will treasure them always. Thank you, Harry, for sharing your life in the law with us. Larry Kaye Howard Spiegler
      