
        SCHARF--Blanche. ''Her husband's heart relies on her and he shall lack nothing...She repays his good all the days of her life...Strength and majesty are her garb...She opens her mouth with wisdom and a lesson of kindness is on her tongue...Her children rise and praise her, her husband, and he lauds her; many daughters have attained achievement, but you surpassed them all ...Let her be praised by her very own deeds.'' (Proverbs). Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Blanche Scharf, mother of our esteemed President, Michael Scharf, whose reverence, respect and love of his parents led him to dedicate Boys Town's Aaron and Blanche Scharf Institute of Advanced Jewish Studies in their honor. Her lofty value system, which guided her in life, is evident in her children and grandchildren, ensuring a lasting and inspirational legacy. Blanche Scharf's deeds truly speak her praise. The boundless care and devotion of her loving family was most certainly a life-giving factor during her recent illness. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her beloved husband of 64 years, Aaron Scharf, her loving sons Michael and Gilbert, devoted daughters-in-law, Fiona and Ruth, and her grandchildren, Andrew, William and Benjamin. In the merit of the daily intensive study of Torah at the Aaron and Blanche Scharf Institute of Advanced Jewish Studies, may the soul of Blanche Scharf ascend to the highest Heavenly spheres and always be a source of blessing. Rabbi Moshe Linchner, Dean Josh S. Weston, Honorary Chairman Raphael Benaroya, Chairman Rabbi Ronald Gray, Executive V.P.
        SCHARF--Blanche. Yeshiva University expresses sorrow on the passing of Blanche Scharf, beloved mother of our esteemed friend and Benefactor, Michael Scharf. An admired and respected woman of valor, Blanche was devoted to her family and community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Michael (and Fiona), brother Gilbert (and Ruth), and their families. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees
        SCHARF--Blanche. Our deepest heartfelt condolences to her loving and devoted husband, Aaron, and her loving children, Michael (Fiona) and Gilbert (Ruth) and grandchildren, Andrew, William and Benjamin. Blanche was a truly courageous and remarkable woman. It is impossible to put into words the character and strength of a woman such as Blanche, but for those who knew her, that is unnecessary. Our deepest sympathy to the entire family. Steven Greenberg and Elizabeth Ray
      