
        BAILEY--William O. Former president, chief operating officer, and vice chairman of Aetna Life & Casualty Company and former CEO and chairman of the board of MBIA Inc., died January 28, 2005 of pneumonia at age 78. A leading figure in the insurance and financial guarantee industries for five decades, Mr. Bailey played a key role in launching the financial guarantee industry in the early 1970's, a multi-billion dollar industry today. He was most recently chairman, CEO and president of Terra Nova (Bermuda) Holdings and Terra Nova Reinsurance Ltd., (London). Born on July 1, 1926 in Syracuse, NY, the son of William E. and Kate Olliver Bailey, he grew up in Northampton, MA, served in the United States Navy during World War II, and graduated from Dartmouth College in 1947. He received his MBA in Insurance from the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce at the University of Pennsylvania in 1949. A former resident of West Hartford, CT, Southampton, Bermuda, and Moultonborough, NH, he was predeceased by his parents, his sister Ann Bailey Doane and two sons, John Mason Bailey and Thomas Wood Bailey. He is survived by his wife of 26 years, Carole Parsons Bailey, and three children, son George (wife Marsha) Bailey of Northampton, MA; daughter Janet (husband Wilson) Faude of West Hartford, CT, and daughter Carolyn Bailey of Lexington, MA, as well as six beloved grandchildren, Kai and Aquila Bailey, Sarah and Paul Faude, and Adriana and Dylan Akers. Also surviving are nephews George Woodward Doane of Richmond, WA, and Robert Bailey Doane of Vallejo, CA. He is also survived by his longtime caregiver and friend Sylvia Grant-Reeves. Friends may call Tuesday, February 1 from 5-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell's Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, February 2 at 10:30 AM at St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Avenue at 51 St. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, February 5 at 11:00 AM at St. John's Episcopal Church in West Hartford, CT. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the St. Bartholomew's Church Flower Fund, The William O. Bailey Scholarship Fund at Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, or the Squam Lakes Association Sailing Program, Holderness, NH 03245.
      