
        HARTOG -- Joseph J. Of Scarsdale, New York, died on January 14, 2005, at home. He was 94. Mr. Hartog was born in Nijmegen, The Netherlands, on December 18, 1910. He married Ada Menko in 1937, and they had five children, of whom four are surviving. Mr. Hartog served in the Dutch Army in World War II, and then fled the Nazi occupation with his wife and child. He served the balance of the war in Surinam as an Army artillery officer. He and Ada immigrated to the United States in 1948 and settled in Westchester County, where Joseph resided for the next 56 years. He lived in Scarsdale for 54 of those years. His wife Ada died in 1965, and Joseph subsequently married Lotte Smith; they were married for 32 years until her death in 1998. Joseph was an entrepeneur and successful small businessman until his retirement. He was a hard bargainer who believed that ethical business practices inevitably led to professional success. Joseph was a member of the Community Unitarian Church at White Plains for nearly 55 years. He served as an officer of the congregation in numerous capacities for multiple terms. He helped build the present facility, and participated in the employment of more than one clergy member. He was a man of diverse interests, with a keen curiosity and a continual desire to expand the breadth of his knowledge and experience. Of all the aspects of his life his family was the most important. He was a patriarch in the best sense of the word, standing at the ready for his children and grandchildren, nephews and nieces, as the need arose. He is survived by his daughters Elzelien (Robert Klaeger), Annemarie (Jan Hendrik deLeeuw), Fay (Daniel Levin), his son John (Margaret Hand) and stepson Thomas Smith (Jean McMahon). He is also survived by eight grandchildren: Erika Small, Emery Silva, Jocelyn Stanton, Alyssa Rapp, Jeffrey Rapp, Jorik deLeeuw, Julie deLeeuw, Lea Hartog, and two great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, February 6, at 2 PM, at the Community Unitarian Church, 468 Rosedale Avenue, White Plains, New York. The family requests that in lieu of flowers donations be made in Joseph's memory to the Church.
      