
        JERVIS--Wayne Talmage, Jr. Beloved husband of 37 years to Ruth G. Jervis, passed away the evening of January 18, 2005 in Los Angeles, CA. The son of Wayne Talmage Jervis, Sr. and Virginia Wheeler Jervis, he was the loving father of Margaret Sculley Allnatt, John Blackburn Sculley, Wayne Talmage Jervis, III, and Geoffrey Grace Jervis and beloved ''Poppa'' of seven grandchildren. He is also survived by his brother, Oliver Wheeler Jervis, of Monteagle, TN, and his family. Wayne Jervis was born on April 25, 1927 in Charlotte, NC, graduated from Webb School in Bell Buckle, TN, the University of the South in Sewanee, TN (B.A. 1950) and the University of Chicago School of Business (M.B.A. 1960). Wayne was a World War II veteran (USN), and his career culminated with the founding of Jervismark, a marketing firm based in Los Angeles, CA. Jervismark was instrumental in the development and deployment of statistical analysis for new product development and marketing and consumer purchasing motivations in the consumer products industry. Wayne Jervis is known for his graciousness, impeccable character, integrity and loyalty by his friends, colleagues and family. A devoted Christian, Wayne Jervis was a member and Deacon of Bel Air Presbyterian Church. He was an ardent supporter of Christian charities and medical research, specifically the Cancer Research Institute of New York, NY where he was a Director, He was a valued mentor to many, especially his children and grandchildren, in academics, athletics and the lifelong development of character. He loved American history, golf, tennis, reading, sailing, world travel, summers in Martha's Vineyard and his beloved Tennessee, where he spent as much time as possible at his residence in Monteagle. His generousity, humor, great common sense and kindness will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Memorial services will be held at 11:30am on Friday January 21, 2005, at Bel Air Presbyterian Church in Los Angeles, CA. In lieu of flowers the family suggests donations to the Cancer Research nstitute or the John Douglas French Alzheimer's Foundation.
      