
        ZACHARIA--Isaac Herman. After a long and brave battle. Loving husband and best friend to MaryAnn, cherished father of Rachel and (Shelley) and Dr. Norman Brier, Mona Beerman, Estelle and Andrew Ross, Zachary and Laura Lawrence. Adoring grandfather of Shauna, Alena, Stacey, Issac, Talia, Suzanne and Joseph. Treasured brother of Stella Testa, Betty and Barry Trager, Dorothy Goldsmith and Sonia Zacharia. He will live in our hearts forever. Funeral Service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St., on Friday, 11:30AM.
        ZACHARIA--Isaac (Izzy) Herman. We record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed colleague, major benefactor and friend of The Sephardic Home. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Sephardic Nursing and Rehab Center Clifton Russo, President Ira Rousso, Chairman of the Board Michael New, Exec Director
        ZACHARIA--Isaac Herman. The Goldsmith family mourns the passing of our beloved brother and uncle. He was a brilliant, witty but confident cornerstone of our family. A family-first, philanthropic-minded giant. In our hearts. Always. Dorothy, Herman and Susan Ricki and Mitch Scott and Jeffrey Dara, Beth, Dani, Elizabeth and Miller
        ZACHARIA--Isaac H. Our beloved cousin and dear friend. We will forever remember and cherish the special times we shared. Our deepest sympathies to MaryAnn and the children. You will always be in our hearts. Eli and Dianne Zacharia Richard and Debra Zacharia Irving Zacharia
        ZACHARIA--Isaac. He was wonderful, kind, a gentle man with quiet wisdom and wit. Patron of artists, a generous philanthropist and our best friend. Our hearts are broken. We will always miss him. Our deepest condolences to his terrific wife MaryAnn and his family. Irving and Barbara
        ZACHARIA--Isaac H. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of the The Jewish Guild for the Blind note with sadness the death of Isaac H. Zacharia, beloved father of Shelly Brier, esteemed Trustee of The Guild. Pauline Raiff, Bd. Chairman Alan R. Morse, Pres. and CEO
        ZACHARIA--Isidore (Izzy). We will always remember your wonderful humor, warmth and generosity. Above all, we will miss our dear friend Izzy. Our love and deepest sympathy to Maryann and the Zacharia family. Michele and Jerry Wolkoff
        ZACHARIA--Isaac. A brave man, a courageous man, and a wonderful friend. We will miss you. Our hearts go out to Maryanne and all of Izzy's family. Roni and Sam Jacobson
      