
        SEGAL--John B., of Larchmont, NY, and Westport, MA, beloved husband for 50 years of Janet Z. Segal, Chief Operating Officer of Four Winds Hospital, Katonah, NY, died on January 6, 2005 of melanoma. He was 76 years old. He was a cherished father, adored uncle, beloved grandfather, and a joyful, quick-witted and dynamic spirit among his friends and business colleagues. An innovator in the cultivation of new hop varieties, he successfully propagated the Cascade hop, among others, which became a mainstay of the brewing industry. He was an active voice for the use of American-grown hops in beer production. He owned a ranch in Grandview, WA, the base of his agricultural operations and brokered the sale of hops, as his father had done since the repeal of Prohibition. He also propagated poplar trees for environmental remediation and at the time of his death, was exploring the medical uses of hops. Born in NY and raised in Great Neck, he attended Westtown School in Westtown, PA and Bard College in Annandale, NY. In addition to his wife, he is survived by his brother, actor, George Segal, and his children and their spouses, John and Robyn Segal of Scarsdale, NY, Jeanne Segal and Tom Trainer of Bethesda, MD, Joanne Fryer (and the late Gary Fryer), also of Larchmont, and special nephew and niece, Nicholas Segal, Polly Segal, and the lights of his life, nine grandchildren, Adam Segal, William Segal, Matthew Fryer, Jenny Fryer, Rebecca Fryer, Eliza Trainer, Ben Trainer, Annie Segal and Teddy Segal. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations be made to the Melanoma Immuno Fund, c/o Dr. Jed Wolchock, Memorial Sloan Kettering, 1275 York Ave., NY NY 10021, or Westport River Watershed Alliance (WRWA), PO Box 3427, Westport, MA 02790. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, January 9th, at 11:30am at Frank E. Campbell ''The Funeral Chapel'', 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., NYC.
        SEGAL--John. He had a generous heart and nature. The Paul family wishes to express our heartfelt sorrow.
        SEGAL--John. A bright and sparkling light is dark. Our hearts are broken. His friends will remember him forever.
      