
        PUNT--William R. The Grand Lodge of Free & Accepted Masons of the State of New York, records with profound sorrow the passing of The Most Worshipful William R. Punt, Senior Past Grand Master and Permanent Member of the Grand Lodge on Friday, January 7, 2005. He died peacefully at the age of 90 at his home in Largo, Florida, with his wife Elsie at his side. William R. Punt was a 50-year member of Floral Park Lodge No. 1016. He was elected Grand Master at the 197th Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge F. & A.M. of the State of New York on May 4, 1978 and was re-elected to a second term on May 2, 1979. He was born in St. Louis, Missouri and was educated at St. Louis University, New York University and the American Institute of Banking. He was prominent in the electrical insulation industry. He was President of Punt, Incorporated from 1955 to 1971, after which he was a marketing executive with the Essex Group, Inc., a subsidiary of United Technology Corporation, until retiring in 1981. He was a founding member and past director of the Electrical Insulation Distributors Association of America and served 26 years as a Trustee of the Roosevelt Savings Bank. For four years he served as a member of the Board of Directors of Bethany Methodist Home in Brooklyn, New York. William R. Punt's Masonic legacy is his positive influence upon and wise counsel for the Masonic brotherhood he loved so deeply. He was an unparalleled proponent of the Home, now the Masonic Care Community in Utica, New York. During his administration as Grand Master, the ''Think Big and Build Campaign'' to remodel, refurbish and modernize the Masonic Home's facilities was undertaken and today it is a state of the art facility where residents are treated with a special kind of dignity and certain quality of life that Masons give for their residents. Grand Master Punt was a Past Master of his Lodge, a member of the Scottish Rite (33 degree), a Shriner, a former Director of the Masonic Medical Research Laboratory, a former Trustee of the Masonic Hall and Home, and the holder of the Active DeMolay Legion of Honor. From 1977 to 1984. he served as Chairman of the Masonic Home Building Fund (Think Big and Build Campaign) which realized close to $15 million. He served as Chief Commissioner of Appeals for Grand Lodge, and four years as Grand Representative for India following his appointment in 1982. Brother Punt held innumerable honorary memberships in Lodges throughout the State and was the recipient of the Charles Henry Johnson Medal in 1982. Brother Punt and his wife, Elsie, were Floral Park residents for 31 years and attend Hillside United Methodist Church, New Hyde Park, where he served as Trustee and Finance Chairman and a lay speaker. Predeceased by his son Robert in 1995, William Punt is survived by his wife Elsie, a daughter, Bonita, four grandchildren and nine great-granddaughters and two great-great grandsons. On behalf of the Grand Lodge, the entire Grand Line of Officers and the Trustee of the Masonic Hall and Home, extend condolences to the Punt family, as well as to his Masonic Brothers. M.W. Edward R. Trosin, Grand Master R.W. Gilbert Savitzky, Grand Secretary
      