
        COHEN -- Herbert George, M.D. Was the devoted husband and best friend of Rhoda (Weiskopf) for almost 54 years. He was the loving and dedicated father of Mark and Alice (Knapp), and proud Grandpa to his adored granddaughters, Alexandra and Gabriella. He had three great loves in his life: his country, the practice of medicine, and his family and friends. He was a young orthopedic surgeon in the United States Medical Corps and went on to earn Five Battle Stars for his service in the United States Army during World War II. He was a pioneer in cerebral palsy and was granted a private audience with Pope Pius XII in connection with his work. For many years he served New York City both as Honorary Surgeon for the Police Department and as Honorary Surgeon for the Fire Department and cared pro bono as well as for countless other civil and military personnel. He and his brother Samuel, also a noted orthopedic surgeon, practiced together for several years representing numerous world-renowned ballet stars, Rocky Marciano and other celebrated athletes, numerous political figures, and countless charitable patients. He had a long, distinguished, internationally-recognized medical career both as a private practitioner and as a medical professor. He was a devoted son, father, brother, uncle, great-uncle and friend. His dedication, determination, and loyalty to all was unfailing. Family and friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday, January 2 and Monday, January 3, 7-9 PM. Services will be held on Tuesday, January 4, at Campbell's at 9:30 AM with interment to follow at Wellwood Cemetery.
        COHEN--Herbert G., M.D. Beloved husband of my dearest friend Rhoda. You were a kind, loving, giving person who lived life with compassion, honor and humor. You will be greatly missed. Rest in peace. Love, Joan
        COHEN--Herbert G., M.D. You were always a loving, caring friend. Our love to Rhoda, Mark and Alice. Audrey and family
        COHEN--Herbert, M.D. My mentor and my friend. For me 'tis such a loss. Anne V. McKnight
      