
        BERGMANN--David W., a respected executive and community volunteer, died Friday (December 24) after falling through the ice on a pond near his home while successfully rescuing his beloved dog, Red. He was 55 and a resident of Huntleigh, MO. Mr. Bergmann was an experienced venture capitalist and investment professional. In 1992, he co-founded Advantage Capital Partners, a venture capital and private equity firm focused on raising investment capital for entrepreneurs in states and communities historically underserved by venture capital. Mr. Bergmann's tireless work through Advantage contributed dramatically to the growth of many entrepreneurial businesses and the creation of thousands of jobs at these firms. Reflecting his keen interest in small business capital formation, in 1995 he served as a delegate to the White House Conference on Small Business. In 1998, Mr. Bergmann was presented an Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award for being a supporter of entrepreneurship. In 1999, he received a Financial Services Advocate award from the U.S. Small Business Administration. In addition to enjoying his family and his Welsh Springer Spaniels, Mr. Bergmann was active in the St. Louis community, giving his time and energy to the Old Newsboys Charities and other organizations. Born and raised in St. Louis, Mr. Bergmann attended Northwestern University in Evanston, IL., and Washington University in St. Louis, where he earned an MBA degree. Mr. Bergmann began his professional career with the investment firm of Halsey, Stuart & Co. in Dallas in the 1970s and subsequently joined the local office of Drexel Burnham Lambert. While in Texas he married the former Peggy Timmons in 1979 and four years later they moved to Los Angeles, where Mr. Bergmann joined Drexel's High-Yield Securities Department. In 1991, Mr. Bergmann returned to St. Louis and soon afterward partnered with Steven T. Stull to found Advantage. In addition to his wife, survivors include a daughter, Katherine A. Bergmann, and a son, John D. Bergmann, both of the home; a sister, Susan Bergmann Calhoun of St. Louis, MO, and a brother, J. Stephen Bergmann, and his wife, Nancy, of Jamestown, R.I. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to Old Newsboys Charities, 14522 S. Outer 40 Dr., Chesterfield, MO 63017; Epworth Children and Family Services, 110 N. Elm Ave., Webster Groves, MO. 63119; or Logos School, 9137 Old Bonhomme Rd., Olivette, MO. 63132.
      