
        ABRONS--Herbert Lehman died in his 93rd year on January 15, 2005 in Naples, FL. He was a son of Louis Abrons and Anne Schroeder and attended Yale College and Yale Law School. During World War II he served in the Navy as gunnery officer on a ship carrying munitions to the Philippines. He was an assistant U.S. Attorney General and then counsel for General Aniline & Film Corp. After retiring, he managed Overlook Groves, a citrus grove in Hardee County, FL. A trustee of The Louis and Anne Abrons Foundation, he supported settlement houses, AfricanAmerican education, opera, and parks. He served as President and Chairman of The Henry Street Settlement on the Lower East Side, where his parents met at a dance in 1903, and on the boards of Wilberforce University and Wave Hill. He is survived by his children, Henry, Alix, and Anne, four grandchildren, a great grandchild, siblings Rita Aranow and Richard Abrons, and his extended family. He is also survived by his third wife, Hyonja Lee Abrons and her children, Jai, Jason, and Janet. He will be greatly missed by his family and friends. Services will be private. Contributions may be made to the Abrons-Aranow Scholarship Fund, c/o The Henry Street Settlement, 265 Henry St., NY NY 10002.
        ABRONS -- Herbert. The board and staff of the Henry Street Settlement mourn the passing of our former President and Chairman. His extraordinary service to the people of the Lower East Side extended more than 75 years. He was instrumental in the building of the Abrons Arts Center as well as the expansion of many programs provided by the Settlement. We send condolences to his wife, Hyonja; brother, Vice Chairman, Richard Abrons; daughter, Anne, a valued board member; and sister, Rita Aranow. Our sympathy also goes to the extended Abrons family. Robert S. Harrison, Chairman Dale J. Burch, President Henry Street Settlement
        ABRONS--Herbert. The Members and staff of the Council on the Environment of New York City mourn the passing of Herbert Abrons and extend deep condolences to his brother Richard and family. Forrest Church, Chair Lys McLaughlin, ED
      