
        WRISTON--Walter B. On January 19, 2005 in New York City after an 18 month fight with pancreatic cancer. He was 85. Mr. Wriston was one of the most innovative financiers of our time. Mr. Wriston was born in Middletown, CT, and graduated from Wesleyan University and the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. Following a year's service as a U.S. State Department officer and a four-year tour with the U.S. Army during World War II, Mr. Wriston joined Citibank in 1946. He held numerous positions at Citibank and served as chairman and chief executive officer of Citicorp for 17 years before retiring in 1984 after 38 years with the company. Mr. Wriston was a visionary who saw the future of the banking industry and the important role it would play in the global economy. He is credited with jumpstarting the electronic banking revolution with the introduction of the ATM as well as the expansion of Citibank's international franchise. At the time of Mr. Wriston's retirement, Citibank had bcome the world's largest bank with branches in 79 countries and its investment in computers and software surpassing $1.75 billion. An outspoken advocate on the need for the deregulation of the banking industry and the free flow of capital, Mr. Wriston was also a powerful voice in Washington and was named chairman of President Reagan's Economic Policy Advisory Board in 1982. Widely quoted for his forward thinking remarks, his most famous quote, ''Information about money has become almost as important as money itself,'' is inscribed in the lobby of the New York Library of Science, Industry and Business. Mr. Wriston served as a director of several corporations including General Mills, General Electric, J.C. Penney, Pfizer and ICOS. In June 2004, Mr. Wriston received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the Nation's highest civilian award. He is also the author of two books, In the Twilight of Sovereignty and Risk and Other Four-Letter Words. He is survived by his wife, Kathryn; daughter, Catherine Quintal; son-in-law, Richard Quintal; two grandchildren, Christopher and Barbara Catherine; and his sister, Barbara Wriston. Burial services will be private. A memorial service will be held in New York City on a date in February. In lieu of flowers, contributions should be made to The Lust Garten Foundation for Pancreatic Cancer, 1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, New York 11714.
      