
        PAGE--Frank Jarvis, 88, died peacefully on December 30, 2004, in his home in Quail Ridge Country Club, Boynton Beach, FL. Known as Jarvis, he was born in Maplewood, N.J., September 3, 1916, one of four sons of Leslie M. and Margaret Owen Page. Jarvis was a member of one of the first graduating classes of Columbia High School and attended the University of Virginia. After Pearl Harbor, he enlisted in the Army Air Corps, becoming an instructor pilot for P-47 Thunderbolt aircraft, and specialized in aerial dog fighting. He served in the Pacific theater in 1944. He was promoted personally by President Roosevelt, who asked him why he had washed out two well-connected West Point graduates. He replied, ''I felt they were a danger to the other men, sir.'' On February 10, 1944, he married the former Virginia Ferrell Barfield of Hahira, Georgia. After the war, Jarvis and Virginia moved to Garden City, L.I., and Jarvis continued in his family's hat business with his brothers Homer and Chauncey. In 1954, he was caught in the LIRR commuter train wreck, sold his business in the city and bought a precision metal parts manufacturer in L.I. An avid amateur golfer his whole life, Jarvis competed in the Walter J. Travis at Garden City Golf Club, where he was a former member, in various tournaments at Cherry Valley Golf Club, where he was a lifetime member. He was the founding President of the Midland Golf Club, an invitational golf tournament, named for the predecessor golf course to Cherry Valley, and remained as Honorary Chairman until his death. He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Virginia Barfield Page of Boynton Beach, FL, and his two daughters, Ferrell Page McClean of Oyster Bay, N.Y. and Hobe Sound, FL and Beatty Page Cramer of N.Y. and Southampton, two grandchildren, Ferrell Page McClean and William Chichester McClean IV and a brother, Chauncey Owen Page of New Canaan, CT. In lieu of flowers donations in honor of Jarvis may be made to Hospice by the Sea, Palm Beach County, 1531 West Palmetto Park Road, Boca Raton, FL 33441; or The Page Family Endowment at Foxcroft School, Development Office, P.O. Box 5555, Middleburg, Virginia, 20118 or The Green Vale School, Valentine's Lane, Glen Head, N.Y. 11545. A memorial service will be scheduled with the Spring meeting of the Midland Golf Club in Garden City, New York.
      