
        JOHNSON -- Philip. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our esteemed Trustee Philip Johnson. Philip was present at the opening of the Museum in 1929. He organized the Museum's first architecture and design exhibitions: ''The International Style'' in 1932 and ''Machine Art'' in 1934. In 1949 he was appointed the first director of the recently unified Department of Architecture and Design, stepping down in 1954 to become the first Chairman of the Trustee Committee on Architecture and Design, a position in which he served for thirty-seven years. Beginning in 1949, Philip designed numerous structures and spaces that visually enhanced the Museum, including the beloved Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden. The south facade of his 1964 East Wing, now beautifully restored as part of the Museum's recent renovation and expansion, stands as a tribute to his mid-career devotion to the International Style architecture of Mies van der Rohe. Philip bestowed upon the Museum an astounding munificence--in works of art as well as financial support--that will long be remembered in an institution that is known for the generosity of its leaders. Instrumental to the extraordinary breadth of the collection of the Department of Architecture and Design, his giving also touched almost every other curatorial department. The experience of visitors to The Museum of Modern Art would be decidedly diminished without the magnificent paintings Philip gave it, including Oskar Schlemmer's Bauhaus Stairway, Mark Rothko's Number 10, Jasper Johns's Flag, Andy Warhol's Gold Marilyn Monroe, and Roy Lichtenstein's Girl with a Ball. We extend our sympathies to David Whitney, his partner of forty-two years, to Mrs. John B. Dempsey, his sister, and to his entire family. David Rockefeller Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel President Glenn D. Lowry, Director Terence Riley, The Philip Johnson Chief Curator of Architecture and Design The Museum of Modern Art, NY
        JOHNSON--Philip. In a statement today (27), Thomas J. Pritzker, president of The Hyatt Foundation, expressed the sadness of the jurors of the Pritzker Architecture Prize, as well as the Pritzker family, over the death of Philip Johnson. ''Philip Johnson was the first Pritzker Architecture Prize Laureate in 1979,'' said Pritzker, ''and the jury praised him for his work as a critic and historian who not only championed the cause of modern architecture, but went on to design some of the 20th Century's great buildings. At that time, he was being honored for 50 years of imaginative and vital structures. His career continued undiminished for another quarter of a century.'' When Mr. Johnson accepted the Pritzker Prize, he thanked The Hyatt Foundation ''in the name of all the architects of the world.'' He called the moment ''a symbol of impending change...'' marking the end of second class status of the visual arts and architecture. Pritzker added, ''We are grateful that as the first Pritzker Laureate, Philip became an inspiration for the field of architecture. We are also grateful to have had his guidance and vision as a member of the jury from 1980 through 1985.''
        JOHNSON--Philip. The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art notes with great sadness the passing of Philip Johnson, a member of the Council since 1955. Philip was one of the first people actively involved in shaping the Museum from the moment of its opening in 1929, and his contributions in architecture and design are legend. In additiion, he has immeasurably built our painting and sculpture collection with some of the most iconic works we own. His legacy is long and illustrious, but his wicked wit, sparkling presence and zest for life can never be replicated. We extend our deepest sympathy to his entire family, and especially to David Whitney, his partner, and Mrs. John B. Dempsey, his sister. Sir Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        JOHNSON -- Philip. Costas Kondylis and Partners mourn the death of Philip Johnson, a true American master. As historian, curator and practicing architect, he played a pivotal part understanding and shaping the skylines of our cities. We celebrate his legacy of visionary work that spans more than 60 years. We are proud to have collaborated with Mr. Johnson on the design of several buildings in New York City. His generosity as a fellow architect, remarkable energy and striking wit will always be remembered with great fondness and admiration. We will always have great memories of our work together. Costas Kondylis Costas Kondylis and Partners
        JOHNSON--Philip. Peter Martins and the Board of Directors, dancers, and staff of New York City Ballet note with sorrow the death of Philip Johnson. Together with George Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein, Mr. Johnson created our home, the New York State Theater at Lincoln Center, where we have happily worked, rehearsed, and performed since 1964. When we travel the world, we are always glad to return to this greatest of dance theaters. The building's simplicity, elegance, and strength inspire us at every performance. Philip Johnson gave us a wonderful gift, and we will be forever grateful.
      