
        LINTON--Laurie Ann. On January 10, 2005, in New York City, at the age of 46, after a long illness. Laurie is survived by her brother Robert, her longtime companion, Murphy, and a host of beloved friends. Laurie was a native--and devoted--New Yorker. A graduate of Hunter College High School, Wesleyan University, and Columbia Law School, Laurie began as a litigator at Weil, Gotshal & Manges. She then turned her attention to the public sector, where she spent the remainder of her career dedicated to serving the people of New York. In positions with the Attorney General's Office, the NYC Human Resources Administration, the NYC Comptroller's Office, and as counsel to the Governor's Office under Mario Cuomo, Laurie's work affected everything from campaign finance legislation to welfare reform, the state budget to charities fraud. Laurie's contribution as an activist in the gay and lesbian community was, if possible, even more profound. She was a founder and board member of the Empire State Pride Agenda, and was instrumental in their work to pass both the Hate Crimes Bill and the Sexual Orientation Nondiscrimination Act. She also served as a Director of the Lesbian and Gay Law Association of Greater New York, and was, until her death, Vice President of the Stonewall Community Foundation's Board of Directors. The vast legion of people who counted her as their very good friend will miss her, and they would agree: her enormous love of life was surpassed only by her generosity of spirit. A memorial service will be held Wednesday, January 12, at 9:30am at ''The Riverside,'' 76 St & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, Laurie wished donations to be made to the Stonewall Community Foundation.
        LINTON--Laurie. The Board of Directors and Staff of Stonewall Community Foundation celebrate the life of our friend and Board Member. Laurie dedicated her career to public service and her volunteer time to the LGBT community. Her example and passion were, and will remain, inspiring --we are all fortunate to have crossed her path. Her contribtutions to Stonewall through the Grants Advisory Committee, of which she was a past Chair, as Co-Chair of the Annual Fund, and as Vice-President of the Board have shaped the growth and direction of this organization and our community. Our lives will be poorer with her passing but richer for the experience of having known this extraordinary woman. The Board of Directors and Staff, Stonewall Community Foundation
        LINTON--Laurie. The board and staff of the Empire State Pride Agenda commemorate the life of Laurie Linton, political activist and champion of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) rights. Laurie was a leader in building community organizations that changed the political and cultural climate in New York State toward LGBT people. A board member of the Pride Agenda for much of the 1990's, Laurie's time and commitment to all aspects of our work helped secure landmark civil rights legislation in New York for lesbians and gay men. Her achievements make all our lives better and strengthen us for the work that lies ahead. Gregory Kerr, MD and Duffy Palmer, Co-Chairs Alan Van Capelle, Exec. Dir.
        LINTON--Laurie. The Board, staff and members of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force mourn the death of Laurie Linton, a courageous and tireless leader for gay and lesbian rights. In government and as a longtime board member of the Pride Agenda and the Stonewall Community Foundation, she was instrumental in reforming anti-gay policies, passing civil rights legislation, and building our community's organizations. Her extraordinary intel ligence, wisdom, humor, and commitment touched us all and will be sorely missed. Jeff Soref and Beth Zemsky, Co-Chairs Matt Foreman, Executive Director
        LINTON--Laurie. Your friendship and love will live in our hearts forever. Jon Wilner and Bob Howard
      