
        GREENFIELD -- Gordon Kraus. Died at the age of 89 on January 7, 2005, after a short illness at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Survived by wife of nearly 60 years, Harriet Copelin Greenfield; his children, Juliet Six, Gordon K. Greenfield, Jr., Faith Lewis, Hope Greenfield and James Greenfield; seven grandchildren; sister Elizabeth Zeidman and brother Albert M. Greenfield, Jr. Mr. Greenfield was a graduate of The Lawrenceville School in 1933 and Princeton in 1937. His business career began in journalism at the Washington Star before volunteering for training on the USS Wyoming in the lead-up to World War II. During the War he ws Lt. Commander on the USS Ludlow in the North Atlantic and survived losing a ship in battle off the coast of Dakar, Senegal, in 1942. For 12 years, Mr. Greenfield was president of City Specialty Stores in New York, which included the department stores of Franklin Simon and Oppenheim Collins. He then became President of America Corporation, a diversified holding company which included Pathe Film Laboraties. After that he became President of the Franchard Corporation, real estate and freight holding company. From 1965 until 2000 Mr. Greenfield was Chairman and President of QCo Industries, later named Autocue Holdings, a manufacturer and provider of a diverse range of products and services for the broadcast and media industries, with headquarters in New York and London. Equally distinguished were his accomplishments as a patron of the music world and a sponsor of several non-profit endeavors; he served as Chairman of the Board of Manhattan School of Music for 13 years and served on its Board for 29 years; he helped found, along with Dorothy Maynard as its first director, The Harlem School of the Arts; he served on the Boards of The Opera Orchestra of NY, the Little Orchestra Society, Young Concert Artists, the Santa Fe Opera, and was Past President of the Metropolitan Opera Club. He was on the Board of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, and was a deacon at the All Souls Unitarian Church in Manhattan; he served on the Committee for Romance Languages at Princeton. In the 1950's he was made a member of the Young Presidents Association and in 1969 received the Distinguished Service Award for his work on the Board of the National Arthritis Foundation. From 1966 to 1971 he was president of the Board of the Dakota Apartments in New York. Mr. Greenfield will be best remembered by his family for his fierce individualism, challenging intellect and formidable wit. He will be envisioned riding horses, which he continued to do into his 80's, at his farm in Hartland, Vermont, followed by his Jack Russell terriers. His latest dog, ''Ronnie,'' named for Ronald Reagan, was his constant companion in his last years. A memorial service will be held at Manhattan School of Music in Greenfield Hall at a later date.
        GREENFIELD -- Gordon K. The entire Manhattan School of Music community mourns the passing of our dear friend and trustee emeritus, Gordon K. Greenfield. At the School, he served as a vital and honored trustee from 1964-1998 and as Chairman of the Board from 1981-1994. His astute advice and dedicated leadership contributed greatly to placing Manhattan School of Music in the forefront of musical institutions in North America. A committed supporter and lover of all the arts, Mr. Greenfield's special devotion was to opera, and in particular, to the support of the emerging careers of young vocal artists. In recognition of his long-standing friendship, service and generosity, Manhattan School of Music bestowed upon him the degree of Doctor of Musical Arts, honoris causa in May, 1994. His unique 41 years of service leaves a legacy that will live on with future generations of aspiring musicians by the renaming of one of the School's major concert halls, the Gordon K. and Harriet Greenfield Recital Hall in November, 2002. His passion and dedication for the arts will be missed, but remembered with gratitude throughout the years to come. With heartfelt sorrow, Manhattan School of Music extends condolences to the Greenfield family. David A. Rahm, Chairman, Board of Trustees Marta Istomin, President
        GREENFIELD -- Gordon K. The Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Opera Club mourn the death of Gordon K. Greenfield, a former president and longtime member of the Club. A music lover with an educated and refined taste for opera, he was a popular figure among the membership. His warmth and friendly presence in the Club will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Harriet and the members of his family. J. Donald McNamara, Pres. Philip E. Beekman, Sec'y.
      