
        MEANS--Steven Allen of Dallas TX, born January 5, 1945 at Banana River Naval Air Station, FL, died unexpectedly January 19, 2005. We are profoundly saddened by the passing of this extraordinary man-respected, admired and loved by all those privileged and honored to know him. Reared in Fort Worth, TX, he attended Meadowbrook Elementary/Jr. High and Eastern Hills High School. He earned a BA degree from Southern Methodist University in Dallas in 1967 where he was a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. He then went on to earn an MBA degree from University of Texas at Austin in 1974. Prior to receiving his graduate degree, he served as a pilot in the Air National Guard Tactical Fighter Squadron in San Antonio, TX and earned the rank of Captain. It was there that he learned three of his favorite words: ''unrestricted climb approved''-that would prove to be a guiding philosophy of his life. In 1970 Mr. Means began his career with Lincoln Property Company in Charlotte, N.C. In 1980 he went on to become one of the founding partners of Paragon Group, a Texas-based, national real estate development firm, and served as CEO of its Central Region and a member of its board of directors. From 1996 to 1998, he was founder and sole shareholder of Means Interests, a Dallas - based commercial real estate company and predecessor to Means-Knaus, LLP, of which he was CEO. He is past chairman of the Urban Land Institute and cofounder and past chairman of the Dallas Real Estate Council. He also co-founded the Dallas Real Estate Council's Unsung Heroes annual event honoring great volunteers in Dallas. His board activities included the North Texas Chapter of the National Association of Industrial and Office Parks, The Hockaday School, The Science Place, The First Tee of Dallas, and the construction management committee for the Dallas Center for Performing Arts. He was a member of the Sons of the Republic of Texas. Jack London said, ''The function of man is to live, not to exist. I shall not waste my days in trying to prolong them. I shall use my time.'' Steve Means was a man who lived-''a dreamer, doer, and pyramid builder.'' Having traversed continents from Africa to Asia, he believed that personal travel was part of the richness of life. He was an avid and accomplished tennis player and golfer and had recently won the Senior Club Championship in both at the Dallas Country Club. He raced cars, flew fighter jets, rode motorcycles, and loved to do it all fast. He was a wine connoisseur and seeker of knowledge. Above all, he loved his family who thought he was the ''coolest, funniest, smartest, most generous man in the world.''To cherish his life's memories he leaves his beautiful and loving wife of 34 years, Susan Lancaster Means, his five beloved daughters, Courtney Hester Means of Washington D.C., Blake Lancaster Means of New York, NY, Loren Winslow Means of Dallas, TX, Sutton Lawrence Means of Athens, GA and Chandler Sinclair Means of Boston, MA, his wonderful and adoring mother Lottie Hester Means of Denison, TX , his brother Donald Bert Means of Sausalito, CA, and two sisters, Gerry Means Hairgrove of Colleyville, TX and Gaye Means O'Neill of Santa Monica, CA, two nephews, Landon Barrett Hairgrove and Logan Patrick Hairgrove of Colleyville, TX and many devoted aunts, uncles, cousins and in-laws. He was preceded in death by his father, Dr. Bert Leonard Means of Denison, TX. We will all live to carry on his passion for life and remember him in our hearts forever. He was our Hero. A memorial service in celebration of his life will be held Wednesday, January 26 at The St. Michael and All Angels Episcopal Church at 4:00pm. Steve had always hoped to create a philanthropic organization to provide educational opportunities for talented young people. In lieu of flowers or gifts, please make donations to an educational cause of your choice.
      