
        JENTOFT-NILSEN--Marit R. Died Sunday, January 16, 2005 in East Greenbush, NY, aged 66. Born in New York City, Marit received her A.B. and M.A. degrees in Latin at SUNY Albany. For several years she taught Latin in Clarkstown, NY, before receiving her Ph.D. in Classics at the USC in '85 with her dissertation on ''Diana on Roman Coins.'' She was a Fulbright scholar at the American Academy in Rome and studied at the American School of Classical Studies at Athens. She traveled frequently, and participated in archeological studies in Greece and North Africa. In 1977 she brought her expertise in numismatics and archaeology to the Getty Museum's Department of Antiquities, where she served as Curatorial Assistant, Assistant Curator, and Associate Curator for Research. While at Getty she published a number of articles related to objects in the collection and most recently authored a three volume CVA (Corpus Vasorum Antiquorum) of the South Italian vases in the Getty collection. She was a wonderful hostess and guide to the Getty for her friends. In addition to her scholarly pursuits, Marit is remembered fondly for her comic sensibilities and quick wit. She was always ready for fun and adventure. At the age of 60, she earned her pilot's license. She loved to travel, around the world and often to New York City, where she attended the Broadway Theatre, her true love, as often as possible. She shared many laughs and a few martinis with her friends, and is remembered as a friend upon whom one could rely. She is survived by her brother, Robert M. JentoftNilsen of Delhi, NY; niece Emilie ''Tobi'' Saulnier, her husband Gary and their children Kelsey and Erik, of East Greenbush, NY; niece Marit A. Jentoft-Nilsen of Maryland; and niece Kristi L. Bridges - Jentoft - Nilsen and her husband Jeb, of California. She is also survived by several cousins and many dear friends. Memorial services will be held at a later date. Contributions can be made to The University at Albany Foundation for the Marit R. Jentoft - Nilsen Memorial Scholarship in the Classics, c/o Richard Ingles, Director of Gift Planning, 1400 Washington Ave., UAB 226, Albany, New York 12222.
      