
        BLOOM--Frances R. Died after a long illness on January 15, 2005. She was the most beloved wife of Barry M. Bloom, most devoted mother of the late Haven R. Bloom, dear sister of Jessica Roller and most cherished friend of Steven, Kristiina, Alexandra and Juliana Harwin. She received her BA Degree at Sarah Lawrence College and her MA at Columbia University. Her career included teaching at Mamaroneck High School and the Packer Collegiate Institute in Brooklyn Heights, before she began her 32 year tenure at The Chapin School. There she taught history, became Department Chair, and then was appointed Director of Academic Studies. She was a Trustee and Secretary of the Board of the New York Institute for Special Education and a Member of the Steering Committee of the Cornerstone National Literacy Initiative. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Haven R. Bloom Scholarship Funds at The Chapin School, 100 East End Avenue, NY, NY 10028. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday, January 18th, 11:30 AM.
        BLOOM--Frances. The Steering Committee of Cornerstone, a national literacy initiative of the New York Institute for Special Education in collaboration with the University of Pennsylvania are profoundly saddened by the loss of Fran Bloom, valued trustee, colleague, mentor and friend. She was foremost a teacher in the very best sense, insatiably curious, thoughtful, patient and kind. She possessed an unwavering belief that children, regardless of their circumstance, share vastly greater similarities than differences. That commitment and her ever present support and encouragement fuel this work. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Barry, other family and her countless friends who like us are so grateful to have had her in our midst. Donna Braton, Chair, Board of Trustees, NY Inst. for Special Ed. John Rhodes, Chair, Cornerstone Steering Comm. Steven Prigohzy, Director, Cornerstone
        BLOOM--Frances R. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longterm member Frances Bloom. We extend heartfelt condolences to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, President
      