
        JOHNSON -- Philip. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our esteemed Trustee Philip Johnson, whose devotion to the Museum spans its entire seventy-five-year existence. A leading member of the circle of young aesthetes who both supported and were nurtured by the vision of Alfred H. Barr, Jr., MoMA's founding director, Philip passionately devoted his energies to the institution throughout its history. A great number of its critically important milestones bear his imprint. Philip was present at the opening of the Museum, in 1929; he was the first director of MoMA's Department of Architecture -- unique among museums at the time--in 1931; with Henry-Russell Hitchcock, he organized the Museum's first architectural exhibition, the landmark ''International Style'' show, in 1932; and he organized ''Machine Art,'' the Museum's first major exhibition on industrial design, in 1934. In 1949 he was appointed the first director of the recently unified Department of Architecture and Design, stepping down in 1954 to become the first Chairman of the Trustee Committee on Architecture and Design, a position in which he served for thirty-seven years. He joined the newly formed International Council of The Museum of Modern Art in 1955 and was named a Trustee of the Museum in 1957. Philip's devotion to Barr and to MoMA helped shape the institution not only intellectually but physically. Having returned to Harvard at the age of thirty-four to train as a professional architect, he became the Museum's principal adviser in its building programs and often served as its architect himself. Beginning in 1949, with the Grace Rainey Rogers Annex, he designed numerous structures and spaces that visually enhanced the Museum, including the beloved Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden, for fifty years the institution's very heart--a cherished restful space within the metropolitan bustle of midtown Manhattan. The south facade of his 1964 East Wing, now beautifully restored as part of the Museum's recent renovation and expansion, stands as a tribute to his midcareer devotion to the International Style architecture of Mies van der Rohe, whose reputation in America was largely built upon Philip's faithful support. Philip not only gave of his energies and talents but also bestowed upon the Museum an astounding munificence -- in works of art as well as financial support--that will long be remembered in an institution that is known for the generosity of its leaders. Instrumental to the extraordinary breadth of the collection of the Department of Architecture and Design, his giving also touched every other curatorial department, from drawings by Marcel Duchamp to prints by Donald Judd to photographs by Lionel Feininger. The experience of visitors to The Museum of Modern Art would be decidedly diminished without the magnificent paintings Philip gave it, including Oskar Schlemmer's ''Bauhaus Stairway,'' Mark Rothko's ''Number 10,'' Jasper Johns's ''Flag,'' Andy Warhol's ''Gold Marilyn Monroe,'' and Roy Lichtenstein's ''Girl with a Ball.'' While crisscrossing Europe with Henry-Russell Hitchcock in 1930 to see the new architecture they would soon dub the International Style, the twenty-four-yearold Philip wrote to his mother of what had become a notable event: ''Last night I hardly dreamt of buildings at all. It is a strange fact that not one night has gone by but that I have had some dream of architecture.'' Indeed, Philip never stopped dreaming of architecture, and for this, the staff, the Department of Architecture and Design, and the Trustees of The Museum of Modern Art will always be grateful. We extend our sympathies to David Whitney, his partner of forty-two years, to Mrs. John B. Dempsey, his sister, and to his entire family. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director Patricia Phelps de Cisneros, Chairman, Trustee Committee on Architecture and Design Terence Riley, The Philip Johnson Chief Curator of Architecture and Design Leon D. Black, Chairman, Trustee Committee on Painting and Sculpture John Elderfield, The Marie-Jose and Henry Kravis Chief Curator of Painting and Sculpture The Museum of Modern Art, New York
        JOHNSON--Philip. The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art notes with great sadness the passing of Philip Johnson, a member of the Council since 1955. Philip was one of the first people actively invovled in shaping the Museum from the moment of its opening in 1929, and his contributions in architecture and design are legend. In additiion, he has immeasurably built our painting and sculpture collection with some of the most iconic works we own. His legacy is long and illustrious, but his wicked wit, sparkling presence and zest for life can never be replicated. We extend our deepest sympathy to his entire family, and especially to David Whitney, his partner, and Mrs. John B. Dempsey, his sister. Sir Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        JOHNSON--Philip. The Board of Directors and staff of Aging in America sincerely regret the passing of Philip Johnson, our friend, mentor and the architect of our nursing facility, Morningside House Nursing Home, on Pel ham Parkway in the Bronx, New York.
        JOHNSON--Philip. The members of the American Academy of Arts and Letters note with sorrow the death of their esteemed colleague whose passing will be mourned by the world of architecture.
      