
        FINNERAN--Gerard Buckley (''Jerry''). A longtime Greenwich resident, died December 29 at the Nathaniel Witherell Nursing Home in Greenwich, CT. He died of complications of Alzheimer's disease, according to his wife of 44 years, Judy Finneran of Stamford. Jerry was born February 16, 1937 in New York City to John Finneran and Dorothy Buckley Finneran, both of whom are deceased. He grew up in Larchmont, NY, and graduated from Iona Preparatory School in New Rochelle, NY in 1955. He then became part of the first graduating class from the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO, graduating in 1959. Subsequently, the Air Force sent him to the University of Michigan Graduate School of Business. After leaving the Air Force, Jerry took additional graduate courses at the N.Y.U. School of Business and completed the Advanced Management Program at the Harvard University School of Business. While in the Air Force, Jerry was stationed in Germany and Greece until his retirement in 1965 as a Captain. He joined Citibank's European Division in 1965 and was sent to London in 1966. He was then put in charge of opening and managing Citibank's subsidiary in Jersey, Channel Islands. In 1973, he returned to New York to set up and run Citibank's Latin American Investment Bank, which included investment banking offices in the major latin american countries. In 1983, he assumed responsibility for the North American Investment Bank for Citibank. He was a Senior Vice President and Senior Credit Officer at Citibank, and had worldwide investment banking responsibilities for the syndicated loan product. In 1985, he joined Drexel Burnham as a Managing Director to establish a Latin American Investment Banking Division for Drexel. He created a fund with one hundred seventy two million dollars to invest in Latin American debt and equities and became President of the Fund, DBL, America's Development Associations LP. In 1990, Trust Company of the West acquired the fund, changing the name to TCW America's Development Association, LP. In 1991, the charter of the fund was changed to encompass emerging markets debt and equity worldwide, and he also assumed responsibility for the co-management of the Argentine Investment Company, a private equity fund. In recent years, he volunteered with the South Forty Corporation, a non-profit organization that assists newly-released convicts in finding employment and reestablishing their lives. Jerry was involved in sports all of his life, lettering in football, baseball, basketball and diving in high school, and received sports scholarships to over 15 colleges. He was also the first person to receive the Con Edison Sportsman of the Week Award in two sports, football and diving. At the Air Force Academy, he was a quarterback for the football team and a member of the diving and baseball teams. As a member of the Millbrook Club for over 31 years, he enjoyed golf, tennis and paddle tennis. Besides his wife, Jerry is survived by his daughter, Laurie Calder of Bethesda, MD, his son, Mark Finneran of Fairfield, CT, two sisters, Judith Finneran of Greenwich, CT and Susan Ashley of Westport, CT, a brother, William Finneran of New York City, and three grandchildren. He was predeceased by his son, Scott Finneran, and his brother, John Finneran. A memorial service will be held at St. Mary's Church in Greenwich, CT, on Tuesday, January 4, 2005 at 10 AM. There are no calling hours. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to the Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research, 1 Intrepid Square, West 46 St and 12 Ave, NY, NY 10036, or by contacting www.alzinfo.org
        FINNERAN--Gerard B. Jerry was one of the founding partners of TCW Worldwide and the author of its eclectic but very successful investment style. He was a consummate value investor who could see around corners. And he was a wonderful boss who focused on what people could do, not on what they couldn't. He engendered loyalty and love from those who were lucky enough to have the opportunity to work with him. His enthusiasm, caring and absolute fearlessness will be sorely missed. Penny, Dave, Consuelo, Stacey, Julie, Edna and Maureen TCW Worldwide Opportunities Fund
      