
        BLOCH--Gerald Constant. Retired President of Bloch Bros. Paper Co. Inc., he died on January 9th at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He succumbed to multiple myeloma after a gallant struggle of five years. Born in Brooklyn, NY on May 30, 1925, Mr. Bloch was graduated from the Poly Prep School and from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1949. During WWII, he served in the European Theatre in the Corps of Engineers from early 1944 to the end of the European conflict. Mr. Bloch, a lifelong resident of New York, was President of Bloch Bros. Paper from 1948 until his retirement in 1990. The firm was founded by his father, Charles C. Bloch, in 1919. The family-run business flourished and became one of the most successful smaller fine paper companies in the United States. After his retirement, Mr. Bloch remained in real estate and other financial ventures, built a house in rural Vermont and then designed a final family home in Roxbury, CT. Devoted to the pursuit of diverse personal interests, he nurtured a lifelong appreciation of nature, was an accomplished birder whose most avid hobby was photography, particularly of birds in flight. Some of these pictures appeared in a Harry N. Abrams book. Mr. Bloch was also a highly respected photographer of the human form. An exhibit of some of his photos was displayed at the Gunn Memorial Library Gallery in Washington, CT. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Nedra Simmons Bloch; four daughters: Susan Bloch of NYC, Janice Bloch Roth of Scarsdale, NY, Dr. Amy Bloch of Larchmont, NY and Elizabeth Bloch of Chicago, IL; a sister, Myra B. Low of Guilford, CT; eight grandchildren; and three sons-in-law. A member of the University Club, Mr. Bloch served on the Paper Industry Council and on the Board of Temple Israel of the City of New York. Interment will be private. A memorial service will be held at a future date. Friends are invited to pay their respects at the Bloch home at 21 East 87th Street, NYC between 5 PM and 7 PM on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, January 10th, 11th and 12th.
        BLOCH -- Gerald C. The Trustees and Staff of the New York City Police Foundation note with sorrow the passing of Gerald Bloch. His interest in our work through his friendship with Trustee Richard Heffner, and his help with our projects, were greatly appreciated. Our sincere condolences are extended to his wife Nedra S. Bloch and her family. May the thoughts and prayers of all those who loved Gerry comfort and strengthen you at this difficult time. Valerie Salembier, Chair Pamela D. Delaney, Pres
        BLOCH--Gerald C. ''I endow those who love me with substance''. We did, and he did. We will love and miss this truly courageous and creative friend forever. Elaine & Dick Heffner
      