
        WASHBURN--George 90, died January 3, 2005 after a long fight with Alzheimer's. Beloved husband for 57 years of Anne Gibson Clark Washburn, and loving father of Constance Clark Washburn of Lagunitas, CA, and Lynn Washburn Hanke of New York. He leaves five grandchildren: Andrew and William Castle and Leigh, Randall and David Hanke. Mr. Washburn was born in Reading, PA in 1914. During the Depression, he worked his way through New York University (Class of 1936). During World War II, he served in the U.S. Navy from 1941 to 1945 on patrol in the North Atlantic with experimental subchasers and later in command of the Destroyer Escort USS Vammen, which saw combat in the Okinawa invasion. Managing men, arms and supplies prepared him for the responsible leadership he would later demonstrate during a forty-plusyear career as a pioneer of the mutual fund industry. He managed the first mutual fund department on Wall Street at Kidder Peabody from 1949 to 1953. By 1961 he formed the Sales Training Institute to prepare a fast-growing sales force, and served as the first President of the National Mutual Fund Managers Association in 1967. He was a partner at Paine Webber Jackson & Curtis from 1963 to 1971, and later with Loeb Rhodes & Co. and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette he continued to advance the development and marketing of mutual funds. From postwar years in Forest Hills where he joined the West Side Tennis Club to The Maidstone Club in East Hampton and The Bath & Tennis in Palm Beach, Mr. Washburn was a fixture on the tennis court and the dance floor. A lifetime of skiing, skating, sailing, golf and ocean swimming made him a tireless ballroom dancing partner. He also had a passion for sailboat racing where he often served as both cook and navigator on Bermuda races. A gracious gentleman who could never be found without his warm smile and engaging sense of humor, George Washburn will be missed by all who knew him. A memorial service will be held at St. Luke's Church in East Hampton at 4PM on Sunday, May 29th of Memorial Day Weekend.
      