
        KRISSEL--Janet Carter. Jan passed away peacefullly on January 15, 2005 after an eight month battle with lung cancer. Jan was married to Bob Krissel for over 47 years and they enjoyed a wonderful life divided between New York, Lakeville, CT, Santa Fe, NM and Vail, CO. She was very active in the communities where she lived and took great pride in her contributions and involvement in the organizations on which she served. Jan was on the Board of National Museum of the American Indian, the Lifecenter and Childrens Museum of Santa Fe, NM. She was an inspiration to her family and friends for her courage, positive attitude, and her determination to overcome her medical problems. Jan's focus was never on her ailments or how she was feeling, she was always more interested in the activities or concerns of others. Jan is survived by her husband Bob; children Kimberly Jones (Matt) of Denver, CO, James Krissel (Jessica) of Sharon, CT and Dina Jaeger (Clifton) of Falls Village, CT and NY; eight grandchildren; brother Ben Carter and mother Mary Carter of Dallas, TX. She was preceded in death by her father Clyde Carter.
        KRISSEL--Janet C. My darling daughter-in-law has left us too soon. She was a loving wife, mother, and grandmother. We will all miss her very much. She will be in my thoughts constantly. With deepest love, Mom Ricka.
        KRISSEL--Janet. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Santa Fe Opera note with sadness the death of Janet Carter Krissel, wife of Robert Krissel, member of the Board of Directors and former President. Mrs. Krissel was an enthusiastic advocate for The Santa Fe Opera and will be remembered by her friends for her spirit and generosity. The entire company expresses its sympathy to her family. Paul R. Hoffman, Chairman Susan F. Morris, President Richard Gaddes, General Director The Santa Fe Opera
        KRISSEL--Janet Carter. The Board of Directors of the Smithonian's National Museum of the American Indian, N.Y., is saddened by the death of founding board member, Janet C. Krissel. Jan inspired us all. Our heartfelt sympathies to her husband, Robert, and family. Charles and Valerie Diker, Co-Chairs. National Museum of the American Indian, N.Y.
      