
        CUNNIFF--Carol Lesley (Baxter). Carley Cunniff (Baxter) died of breast cancer on January 16, 2005, at her home in Lyme, Connecticut. Born on April 1, 1950, in Rockville Centre, NY, Carley was a graduate of Swarthmore College and Harvard Business School. She began her career at Dillon, Read & Co. and, after brief stints at Harry Winston and Warburg, Paribas, Becker, joined Ruane, Cunniff & Co. in 1983, where she was serving as executive vice president and director of both the firm and The Sequoia Fund upon her retirement in 2002. Carley had been diagnosed with breast cancer in late 2001. Famously generous with her time and energy, Carley sat on the Board of Managers at Swarthmore College, the Overseers Visiting Committee at Harvard Business School and the executive committee of the Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering. Most recently, she served on the board and as director of the investment committee of the Florence Griswold Museum in Old Lyme, Ct. Though Carley was a sharp-eyed investment analyst, she always had time to share with younger people in the investment business and at her firm. A number of her former associates have gone on to found their own successful firms and credit Carley's advice, support and friendship as critical to their success. Upon her retirement at the end of 2002, Carley and her husband Andy spent most of their time at their home in Lyme, Ct. Carley's natural creativity came to the fore as she spent much of her time landscaping and planting glorious gardens which surrounded her during her final years. She derived enormous pleasure from the radiance she created after she left the world of finance. Carley was a great beauty with impeccable taste, and a creature of unsurpassed kindness. She was a doting aunt and godmother, her husband Andy's perfect mate, a peerless friend and the best possible sport. She will be deeply missed by a wide circle of friends, former associates, and by her dear family. She is survived by her devoted husband, Andy of Lyme, Ct.; her parents, Richard and Marilyn Cunniff of Lloyd Harbor, NY; sisters, Hilary Cunniff of Pennington, NJ, and Jeanne Foussard of St. Paul, MN; brothers, Richard, Jr. of NYC and Peter of Harrington Park, NJ, and her stepdaughter, Eliza Riley of Mill Valley, Ca. A memorial service will be announced shortly. In lieu of flowers, Carley's family would appreciate contributions to The Carley CunniffPeter S. Dixon, M.D. Foundation, a charitable trust in formation, in memory of Carley. Its principal mission is to further understand the power of the human spirit during health and illness as it relates to the practice of medicine. Contributions may be directed to P.O. Box 800, Essex, Ct. 06426.
        CUNNIFF--Carley, on January 16, 2005, at home in Lyme, CT, of breast cancer at age 54. Until her retirement in 2002, Carley was Executive Vice President of Ruane, Cunniff & Co., Inc., and a Director of the firm's flagship Sequoia Fund. She joined the firm in 1983 and over the next 19 years worked diligently to make it a better place. All who knew her respected her integrity and judgment and admired her warmth and good will. She was a perceptive and skeptical analyst who proved a wonderful mentor. She was a trusted adviser who spoke to clients with clarity and wisdom about our investment philosophies and results. We were proud to have her as a colleague, but prouder to know her as a friend. We extend our affection and condolences to her family. Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb Inc.
        CUNNIFF -- Carley Baxter. The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourns the passing of its Treasurer, Carley Cunniff Baxter. As a member of The Society's Executive Committee, Carley's wise counsel and sensitive leadership will be greatly missed. We offer our sincerest condolences to those who loved her. Mrs. Arie L. Kopelman Pres., The Society of MSKCC
        CUNNIFF--Carley. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Florence Griswold Museum in Old Lyme, CT mourn the passing of their beloved Trustee on January 16, 2005. We honor her accomplishments on our behalf and will always remember Carley's brilliant mind, wonderful sense of humor and gracious spirit.
      