
        KREITMAN--Phyllis Wisser. On January 24th, 2005 at 6PM, Phyllis Kreitman, loving wife of Stanley Kreitman lost her long valiant battle against leukemia. Phyllis was an angel in a human body and a joy to a multitude of friends. Up until her death, Phyllis actively served selflessly on many charitable boards including the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society and Education and Assistance Corporation. She leaves behind a loving husband and a brother, Bill Wisser. Services will be held on Wednesday, January 26 at 10AM at Gutterman's Chapel in Woodbury, Long Island, New York. In lieu of flowers, the family would appreciate donations to the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society of LI
        KREITMAN--Phyllis . Dearest Phyllis: No one can possibly come close to your energetic devotion, commitment, affection, friendship and handson-love we shared with you from the first moment we met until the very last. You're a part of the Spring family always and ever. Thank you for your gifts of wit, grace, humor and love. Stanley and Billy, we're always here for you. With love, Jeanne, Richard, Danny, Jean-Marc, Jenny, Chris, Adam, Jill
        KREITMAN--Phyllis. Stony Brook University and the Stony Brook Foundation Board mourn the passing of Phyllis Kreitman, beloved wife of Stanley Kreitman, and the sister of our colleague and board member William Wisser. We express deep sorrow and extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Shirley Strum Kenny President, Stony Brook University Richard L. Gelfond, Chair, Stony Brook Foundation Board
        KREITMAN -- Phyllis. The Board of Directors and employees of Medallion Financial Corp. mourn the passing of Phyllis Kreitman, beloved wife of our esteemed Board member and colleague, Stanley Kreitman. Phyllis was a remarkable and unique woman who will be missed. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband Stanley and brother William. Alvin Murstein, Chairman Andrew Murstein, President
        KREITMAN--Phyllis W. Our sincerest condolences to Stanley and Billy. We will remember your great lady for a long time to come. The Rush Family
      