
        MEADOW--Phyllis W. The Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies in New York City mourns deeply the loss of a beloved and inspiring leader, Phyllis W. Meadow, in New York City on January 19, after a brief illness. She brought to her work an extraordinary ability to engage others in the psychoanalytic experience. She demonstrated her commitment to the field of psychoanalysis as a student, analyst, supervisor, teacher and researcher and advocate for analytic training. She fought for the recognition of psychoanalysis as a distinct discipline and for its establishment as an academic specialty. A most significant achievement, won with her colleagues' collaboration, was to secure accreditation to grant doctoral and master's level degrees in psychoanalysis at the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis and its affiliates, becoming the first in the country to do so. She was also founder and editor of the journal Modern Psychoanalysis established in 1976. Her published works include Emotional Education: The Theory and Process of Educating Psychoanalysts; Selected Theoretical and Clinical Papers; she was co-author of Treatment of the Narcissistic Neuroses; her most recent book, The New Psychoanalysis, appeared in 2003. She was Chair of the Board of Trustees for the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies and former President of the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis. She was also founder and former President of the Society of Modern Psychoanalysts. She served on the Board of Directors of the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis as Membership Director, and was a founder and past president of the National Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis. We will miss her contagious enthusiasm, her creative mind, and her boundless energy. Her singular gifts as a psychoanalyst were revealed in her profound attunement to our emotions, in her uncommon understanding of our psychic conflicts, and in her ability to say the words that never failed to reach our unconscious. A memorial will be held in New York City at a later date. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies in New York City and to the Boston Graduate School for Psychoanalysis in Brookline, MA. Visitation will be held on Saturday, January 22nd, 12:304:30 PM, at 245 West Thirteenth Street, New York City.
      