
        CHISHOLM--Shirley. The City University of New York mourns the passing of our distinguished, barrier-breaking alumna, Shirley Chisholm. The first black woman to serve in Congress and one of the first women to seek the presidential nomination of a major party, she was a proud graduate of Brooklyn College. Her independent spirit and unyielding determination to make representative democracy work won her a permanent place in the pantheon of great Americans. She will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Benno C. Schmidt, Jr. Chairman Matthew Goldstein, Chancellor
        CHISHOLM--Shirley. Brooklyn College mourns the passing of one of its most illustrious graduates, former congresswoman and presidential candidate, Shirley Chisholm. Although she was offered scholarships to Vassar and Oberlin Colleges, she chose to attend Brooklyn College, where she graduated Cum Laude with a degree in Sociology in 1946. In a life dedicated to community involvement and bettering the lives of all Americans, she exemplified the best of Brooklyn College. Christoph M. Kimmich, Pres. Brooklyn College
        CHISHOLM--Shirley. The Women's Studies Program at Brooklyn College/CUNY mourns the passing but celebrates the life of the Honorable Shirley Chisholm, our 1946 alum. An ardent feminist, internationalist, Chisholm will always be an inspiration to Brooklyn College students and to everyone who champions social justice. In September '04 the Women's Studies Program at Brooklyn College inaugurated the Shirley Chisholm Center for the Study of Women. Her legacy will continue.
        CHISHOLM -- Shirley. The Board, Staff and Children of Hamilton - Madison House fondly remember Shirley Chisholm for her 40 year commitment to the House, first as a nursery school teacher and then as an esteemed Board Member. She was a trailblazer for women in politics and will be remembered for her commitment to the education of children. Debra A. Thompson, Board President Frank T. Modica, Exec Dir Hamilton-Madison House
        CHISHOLM--Shirley. We remember Shirley Chisholm, an unwavering advocate for poor communities, for women's rights, who opposed the Vietnam War, supported abortion rights, whose 1972 presidential campaign drew new life into national politics. We need more Shirley Chisholms, especially today. History in Action, a web group of feminist activists from 2nd and 3rd wave feminism., Some of us worked on her campaign.
      