
        WILSON--Glen Parten Jr., 82, Executive Director Emeritus for the National Space Society, died in Fort Worth, Texas, on January 8, 2005. Interment: Arlington National Cemetery. Memorials: Gifts in his honor may be made to The National Space Society, 1620 I Street NW, Suite 615, Washington, DC 20006. Glen P. Wilson was born in Waco, Texas, on December 10, 1922. He lived in Houston until moving to Austin to complete his education at the University of Texas with three degrees: a B.S. in Aeronautical Engineering, 1943; MA, 1948 and Ph.D. in Psychology, 1952. He served honorably in the US Navy during World War II. In 1955, he came from Austin, where he had done research and taught at the University of Texas, to work as assistant to Senator Lyndon B. Johnson in Washington, DC. In 1957, as the result of Sputnik, and because of his background as an engineer and scientist, he was transferred to the Armed Services Committee's Preparedness Investigating Subcommittee, chaired by Senator Johnson, and later transferred to the Special Committee on Space and Astronautics, also chaired by Senator Johnson. This is the committee that wrote the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 and created the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. In 1958, the standing Senate Committee on Aeronautical and Space Sciences was also created and Glen Wilson was a key staff member of this committee until it was abolished by a Senate reorganization in 1977. He was the only staff person to serve on the committee throughout its entire existence. This committee played a crucial role in supporting NASA's Apollo program and post-Apollo Space Shuttle development. In 1978, he became a member of the senior executive service at NASA, where he developed the Shuttle Student Involvement Program (SSIP) for the agency. This innovative program is designed to increase students' interest in mathematics and science by encouraging them to compete by proposing experiments to fly on the Space Shuttle. Since its inception, several million students have used materials developed for this program and more than 20 experiments have actually flown. For this outstanding work, he was awarded NASA's Exceptional Service Medal in 1981. He retired from NASA in 1982. In 1982 he also established the Marie D. and Glen P. Wilson Foundation, which served as a supporting organization to the National Space Institute at a crucial time in its development. The Foundation also established and provided financial support for the Space Educator Award, awarded annually by the National Space Club, to an outstanding high school teacher who has had a national winner in the SSIP program. In 1984, he became Executive Director of the National Space Society (formerly Institute), an advocacy organization devoted to promoting research, exploration, development and habitation of space. In 1985-87 he played a key role in the negotiations with the L5 Society which led to the merger of the two organizations in 1978. By the time of his retirement from NSS in 1988, he had more than doubled (to 20,000) the membership of the organization and laid the foundation for its continued growth. Upon his retirement, he was given the title of Executive Director Emeritus and served on the Board of Governors until his death. He received AIAA's Special Presidential Citation and had also been honored by being elected to the International Academy of Astronautics and to the Cosmos Club of Washington, DC. He was selected by the Engineering Foundation Advisory Council as one of five alumni to be honored as a Distinguished Engineering Graduate for 2000 of the College of Engineering at the University of Texas at Austin. He is in numerous Who's Whos, including the 48th and subsequent editions of Who's Who in America. Glen Wilson had more than 45 years of experience in Washington and had been continuously involved in the Nation's space program since its inception in 1957. He was preceded in death by his wife, Marie. He is survived by his brother, Thomas W. Wilson, M.D., and his wife, Jean, and their family. For more information contact Thompson's Harveson & Cole Funeral Home, Fort Worth, Texas, 817-336-0345.
      