
        KREITMAN--Phyllis Wisser. On January 24th, 2005 at 6PM, Phyllis Kreitman, loving wife of Stanley Kreitman lost her long valiant battle against leukemia. Phyllis was an angel in a human body and a joy to a multitude of friends. Up until her death, Phyllis actively served selflessly on many charitable boards including the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society and Education and Assistance Corporation. She leaves behind a loving husband and a brother, Bill Wisser. Services will be held on Wednesday, January 26 at 10AM at Gutterman's Chapel in Woodbury, Long Island, New York. In lieu of flowers, the family would appreciate donations to the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society of LI
        KREITMAN--Phyllis. We will miss you. You are always in our hearts. Seymour, Beth, Bob, Rick, Jane, Matt, and Alex Meyer.
        KREITMAN--Phyllis. How do you describe the essence of a woman you have known and adored for more than 35 years? Foremost, Phyllis was strong with great resolve. She was brave beyond question. She was kind with great compassion. She was considerate--never missed your birthday. She was organized--no one could make a better party. Phyllis straddled the ages. Her friends were from 8 to 80, and she embraced every person from all walks of life. Above all, Phyllis was a phenomenal wife, incredible sister and the best friend anyone could ever have. We love you. We will miss you, but your memory will live on in all of us. Aileen and Al, Barbara and Andrew, Amie and John
        KREITMAN -- Phyllis. The Board of Directors and employees of Medallion Financial Corp. mourn the passing of Phyllis Kreitman, beloved wife of our esteemed Board member and colleague, Stanley Kreitman. Phyllis was a remarkable and unique woman who will be missed. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband Stanley and brother William. Alvin Murstein, Chairman Andrew Murstein, President
        KREITMAN -- Phyllis. The Board of Governors and the members of Glen Oaks Club express our deepest sorrow at the passing of Phyllis, wife of our esteemed member and officer of the Board of Governors, Stanley, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Board of Governors Alan Goldberg, President
        KREITMAN--Phyllis. With a profound, overwhelming sadness, we offer our heartfelt condolences to you, Stanley and Billy. We will miss Phyllis. She was warm, caring, generous and a most important part of our lives. Barbara and Jonathan will always be grateful. Joan and Ira W. Berman
        KREITMAN -- Phyllis. Cher ished memories will never fade. You will always be in my heart. Lovingly, Estelle.
      