
        BRIDGE--John Gordon, retired Senior VP, Communications Services of GlobeCast, died January 14 at New York Presbyterian Hospital following a lengthy illness. He was 76. In a radio and television career beginning at a small Upstate NY radio station where he recreated live playby-play baseball from Western Union ticker tapes to executive positions with several television and communications giants providing major league sports with worldwide satellite TV networks, Mr. Bridge was widely respected for both his technical innovation and personal integrity. Many of his proteges went on to senior positions with major networks, cable TV and the entertainment industry. Born in Batavia, New York, Mr. Bridge worked as an engineer, announcer and sportscaster at WBTA while in high school. He went on to produce live radio drama and appeared in summer repertory theater. After enlisting in the US Navy, Mr. Bridge was assigned to Armed Forces Radio in New York City where he rose from sportscaster to civilian Director of Armed Forces Radio Television Sports. In 1967, he joined the Clearance Department of Sports Network Incorporated, later Hughes TV, Paramount Pictures and MSG Network. As Contracts Manager of the Atlantic Richfield account, he provided on-air talent and radio/TV originations for several major league baseball teams. HTN Associates, later IDB Communications, WorldComm and Keystone Communications, hired Mr. Bridge as Manager, Communications Services Dept. There he implemented the move from terrestrial to satellite TV transmission of professional sports for Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, the Professional Golf Association and professional tennis. Mr. Bridge is survived by his brother, Kelly Bridge and a niece, Katherine Silver, of Los Angeles and a nephew, Andrew Bridge, of Portland, OR. A memorial service will be conducted Friday, January 21st at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home at 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street, New York, NY. Mr. Bridge will be buried Saturday, January 22 in Daytona Beach, FL next to his mother, Irene, and father, Russell Bridge.
      