
        WRISTON--Walter B. On January 19, 2005 in New York City after an 18 month fight with pancreatic cancer. He was 85. Mr. Wriston was one of the most innovative financiers of our time. Mr. Wriston was born in Middletown, CT, and graduated from Wesleyan University and the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. Following a year's service as a U.S. State Department officer and a four-year tour with the U.S. Army during World War II, Mr. Wriston joined Citibank in 1946. He held numerous positions at Citibank and served as chairman and chief executive officer of Citicorp for 17 years before retiring in 1984 after 38 years with the company. Mr. Wriston was a visionary who saw the future of the banking industry and the important role it would play in the global economy. He is credited with jumpstarting the electronic banking revolution with the introduction of the ATM as well as the expansion of Citibank's international franchise. At the time of Mr. Wriston's retirement, Citibank had bcome the world's largest bank with branches in 79 countries and its investment in computers and software surpassing $1.75 billion. An outspoken advocate on the need for the deregulation of the banking industry and the free flow of capital, Mr. Wriston was also a powerful voice in Washington and was named chairman of President Reagan's Economic Policy Advisory Board in 1982. Widely quoted for his forward thinking remarks, his most famous quote, ''Information about money has become almost as important as money itself,'' is inscribed in the lobby of the New York Library of Science, Industry and Business. Mr. Wriston served as a director of several corporations including General Mills, General Electric, J.C. Penney, Pfizer and ICOS. In June 2004, Mr. Wriston received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the Nation's highest civilian award. He is also the author of two books, In the Twilight of Sovereignty and Risk and Other Four-Letter Words. He is survived by his wife, Kathryn; daughter, Catherine Quintal; son-in-law, Richard Quintal; two grandchildren, Christopher and Barbara Catherine; and his sister, Barbara Wriston. Burial services will be private. A memorial service will be held in New York City on a date in February. In lieu of flowers, contributions should be made to The Lust Garten Foundation for Pancreatic Cancer, 1111 Stewart Avenue, Bethpage, New York 11714.
        WRISTON--Walter B. The Trustees, Life Trustees, Physicians and Staff of NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital and the Overseers, Faculty and Staff of Weill Medical College of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend, Walter B. Wriston. A financier, philanthropist and Presidential Medal of Freedom recipient, Mr. Wriston championed the democratizing effects of globalization and information technology. A member of the Board of Trustees of the Hospital since 1975, he lent his uncommon vision, keen intellect and leadership skills to furthering our mission of excellence in patient care. We especially appreciate his early and prescient efforts to bring the benefits of information technology to the Hospital and Medical College as a member of the institutions' Joint Board. We also remember him as the co-founder of ''Cabaret!,'' NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center's annual fund-raising event. He leaves an outstanding legacy of stewardship and benevolence. We will miss his wisdom, kindness, and friendship, and join with all those who knew him in mourning his loss. Our deepest condolences are extended to his beloved wife, Kathryn, and to the entire Wriston family. John J. Mack, Chairman, Board of Trustees Dr. Herbert Pardes, President & CEO Frank A. Bennack, Jr., Vice Chairman Charlotte M. Ford, Vice Chairman Peter A. Georgescu, Vice Chairman Jerry I. Speyer, Vice Chairman NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital Sanford I. Weill, Chairman, Board of Overseers Dr. Antonio M. Gotto, Dean Weill Medical College of Cornell University
      