
        McCLOUD--Stewart C. The Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of New York records with profound sorrow the passing of Most Worshipful Stewart C. McCloud, Past Grand Master, on Sunday, January 16 at his home in Monroe Township, NJ after a long illness. He is survived by Irene, his wife of 17 years, and sons Geoffrey and Stewart II, grandchildren Stewart III, Jason, Theresa and Geoffrey Jee Ho. His first wife, Georgine, passed away in 1987. The McClouds were residents of Floral Park, LI for many years prior to moving to Rossmoor in New Jersey five years ago. They also had a home in Ormond Beach, Florida. He was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1927. He served in the United States Navy in both World War II and the Korean conflict. He joined the Long Island Railroad in 1946 and rose thru the ranks to become Assistant Superintendent - Transporta tion and then an executive in the Training Department before retiring in 1978. In 1979 he became Consultant to Taconic International Rail-Transit Operations, followed by several years as Manager Test and Acceptance of Equipment at Bombadier Inc. for Metro North Commuter Railroad before he retired again in 1990. Grand Master McCloud had a long and distinguished Masonic career culminating in his Election as Grand Master in 1998 and his reelection in 1999. His theme as Grand Master was ''Together We Build.'' During his term he established The Grand Lodge Fund to assist Lodges and indigent Masons in overcoming financial difficulties. A Mason for 47 years, he joined Dunton Lodge 1017 (now Springfield Gardens Lodge 1057) in November 1957 and served as its Master in 1970. In 1979 he became Assistant Grand Lecturer and District Deputy Grand Master in 1981. In the Grand Line he served as an Assistant Grand Marshal, Deputy Grand Marshal, and then Grand Marshal. From 1990, through 1992 he was the elected Grand Treasurer of the New York Grand Lodge of Masons. In 1995 he was elected Deputy Grand Master. Past Grand Master McCloud was a distinguished member of the Royal Arch Masons. In 1978 he was elected Grand High Priest of the Grand Chapter-R.A.M. of the State of New York. He served as a Trustee of the R.A.M. Medical Research Foundation, Inc. from its inception until his passing; for the past 20 years as its President. The Foundation supports the world famous Masonic Medical Research Laboratory in Utica, where a conference room in the new Molecular Genetics facility was named in his honor in June 2004. Past Grand Master McCloud was a proud member of the York Rite, Scottish Rite, and Blue Lodge Masonry and he received numerous awards, honors and honorary memberships. He received the highest honorary Masonic Degree having been coroneted Thirty Third Degree in 1997. The Grand Lodge of New Jersey accorded him the title of ''Honorary Past Grand Master'', and this past year he received one of the highest honors that can be bestowed by the New York Grand Lodge, The Charles Henry Johnson Medal. On behalf of the entire Masonic family in New York, the Grand Lodge extends condolences to the McCloud family and his Masonic Brothers. M..W.. Edward R. Trosin, Grand Master R..W..Gilbert Savitzky, Grand Secretary
      