
        BINGHAM--Harry Payne, Jr. 92 years old, died on Tuesday, January 18, 2005 in Palm Beach. He was a seasonal resident of Florida since infancy. Born in Cleveland, Ohio he was a grandson of Charles William Bingham, an early settler of Palm Beach. A long-term resident of Jupiter Island, he more recently moved to the Watermark in West Palm Beach. From his marriage to Lilla Fiske, which ended in divorce, he had two children: Harry Payne Bingham III, M.D. and Belinda Bingham Jewell Pierce, both of whom predeceased him. He then married Martha Kramer Gerry who died in 1993. In 1994 he married Helen Ramsdell de Bustamante, a long-term resident of Palm Beach. He is survived by his widow, two grandchildren: Pliny Jewell IV (Elizabeth), and Lucinda Jewell Donohoe (Peter) both of the Boston area, three great grandchildren, and his son-in-law, Dr. Gerald G. Pierce of Palm Beach Gardens. His sisters, Barbara Moore and Burks Lapham, both of Washington D.C. survive. He leaves two stepchildren, Robert Gerry III (Judy) of Houston and Nancy Gerry Bedford of Virginia. A graduate of the Boeing School of Aviation, he served as a Naval Aviator in World War II and had been a pilot for Eastern Air Lines. His clubs included the Everglades Club, Jupiter Island Club and Seminole Club in Florida. He was also a member of the Links and the Racquet and Tennis Club in New York City among others. A quiet and mostly anonymous philanthropist he was a major benefactor of Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington, Vermont for many years and recently gave his Vermont home, Stone Gate Farm, to the hospital where the Ambulatory Care Center is named in his honor. He had previously given his ranch in Stuart, Florida to the Audubon Society. With his family before him, he was a benefactor of the Taft School in Watertown, Connecticut, from which he graduated, and was a patron of Jupiter Medical Center and The Boy Scouts Of America among others. A Memorial Service will be held at St. James Episcopal Church in Arlington, Vermont in the spring. In lieu of flowers the family suggests donations to ''Helping Hands'' at Hospice Of Palm Beach County, 5300 East Avenue, West Palm Beach, Florida 33407.
      