
        SCHARF--Blanche, of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL and formerly of Sands Point, NY, passed away on January 5, 2005. Beloved wife of Aaron Scharf for 64 years, loving mother of Michael and Gilbert, and loving mother-in-law to Fiona and Ruth. Beloved grandmother to Andrew, William and Benjamin. Adored aunt and friend to many. She was a true woman of valor to whom family and ethical values were most important. A woman of beauty, intelligence, kindness, graciousness and exceptional aesthetic taste. She extended munificent hospitality to family and friends. She was a passionate lover of Israel, and her warmth of spirit and kindness to others less fortunate were what characterized her life. Funeral services will be held on Friday, January 7, 2005 at 9:30am at Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67 St., New York, NY.
        SCHARF--Blanche. Park East Synagogue, its Officers and Trustees, deeply mourn the loss of Blanche Scharf, beloved wife of our esteemed member, Aaron, mother of our dedicated President, Michael Scharf (Fiona), and dedicated member, Gilbert Scharf (Ruth), grandmother of Andrew, William and Benjamin. A fitting tribute to her memory has been the generosity of the Scharf Family to our Synagogue and the advancement of Torah in our schools. Funeral services Park East Synagogue, 163 E. 67th St., Friday, January 7th 9:30AM. May the family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Julius H. Gewirtz, Chairman Joseph Wilf, Vice-President
        SCHARF -- Blanche. Sister hood Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Blanche Scharf, devoted wife of Aaron, beloved mother of Synagogue President and Sisterhood Trustee Michael and Fiona Scharf, and devoted members Gilbert and Ruth Scharf, adored grandmother of Andrew, William and Benjamin. Deepest sympathies to the entire family. Lois Kirsh & Ninette Stiskin, Co-Presidents Maguy Naparstek, Bd. Chair
        SCHARF--Blanche. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School mourns the death of Blanche Scharf, beloved mother of our dedicated founders and benefactors, Michael and Fiona, and Gilbert and Ruth Scharf. To them, to Aaron, her beloved husband, and the grandchildren Andrew, William and Benjamin, our deepest sympathies.
        SCHARF -- Blanche. Men's Club Park East Synagogue records with sorrow the death of Blanche Scharf, mother of Synagogue President Michael Scharf and fellow member brother Gilbert, mother-in-law of Fiona and Ruth, grandmother of Andrew, William and Benjamin. Condolences to the family. Dr. Barry Zimmerman, Pres. Herman Hochberg, Chair
        SCHARF--Blanche. Heartfelt condolences to our dear friends, Aaron, Michael and Fiona, Gilbert and Ruth, on the loss of their beloved ''Woman of Valor.'' Her children and grandchildren Andrew, William and Benjamin, are the beneficiaries of her love for education. Rabbi Arthur and Elisabeth Schneier
      