
        GOUDSMIT--Arnoldus, M.D. Rochester, NY, Friday, February 11, 2005. Age 96. Predeceased by his wife, Hellen C. Goudsmit. He is survived by by four daughters, Doris Albert of Pittsford, NY, Frances (Allan) Tessler of Jackson, WY, Jacqueline Ann Nieman of NYC, and Eleanor (Douglas) Miller of Sandy Hook, CT; a cousin Ini Lederer of Haifa, Israel; nine grandchildren; 15 great-grandchildren; five nieces and a nephew. Born in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, Dr. Goudsmit earned his M.D, there in 1931. In 1933 he and his wife Hellen came to the US, where each earned a Ph.D. in biochemistry at Cornell Medical College (1936). His training in Internal Medicine was at the Mayo Clinic. Beginning in 1939 he was Assistant Professor of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania; and during WWII he was a medical officer on Iwo Jima with the Army Air Corps. He practiced medicine in Youngstown, OH, taught at the University of Pittsburgh Medical School, and served as the first president of the Ohio chapter of the American Society of Internal Medicine. His vision and leadership led to the founding of the American Society of Clinical Oncology in 1964 (for which he was honored last June). In the late '60's he left private practice to assume a role as Oncologist at the Dearborn VA Hospital. Later he became Chief of Surgical Oncology at the Minneapolis VA Hospital. At age 70, Noldus enrolled in Divinity School. For a time he was Associate Minister at the First Unitarian Society of Minneapolis. He then combined his love of medicine and theology by becoming a hospital chaplain. He was a wonderful pianist, an avid hiker, an active cyclist and cross-country skier. After he moved to Rochester, NY, in 1998, he continued to attend numerous medical meetings and traveled extensively. He enriched our lives with his wisdom, kindness and vitality, as well as his warmth and optimism. We are grateful for his example of a life well lived. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, April 2, 2005, at the First Unitarian Church of Rochester, 220 Winton Road South, at 2 PM. Contributions may be directed to Advent House (a hospice house), 1010 Moseley Road, Fairport, NY 14450; Rochester Rotary Charitable Trust, 125 E. Main St, Rochester, NY 14604; or The ASCO Foundation, 1900 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314, in his memory.
        GOUDSMIT--Arnoldus. The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) is saddened by the loss of Arnoldus Goudsmit, MD, PhD. Dr. Goudsmit was one of the leaders in the development of the discipline of clinical oncology, and one of the seven founding members of ASCO forty-one years ago. His vision for the Society is today the world's leading authority in the education and training of oncologists with 24,000 members worldwide. Dr. Goudsmit's leadership of clinical oncology, which now represents all cancer specialties, has contributed greatly to the improved diagnosis, treatment, well-being and longevity of hundreds of thousands of individuals with cancer. Dr. Goudsmit's family has established a fund at The ASCO Foundation to recognize his many contributions to the field of oncology. For more information, please call 1-703-519-1456. We send our deepest condolences. David H. Johnson, President Charles M. Balch, EVP & CEO American Society of Clinical Oncology
      