
        LEFF--Naomi. We'll always remember your warmth, talent and friendship which we treasured dearly. Ruth and Bil
        LEFF--Naomi. Noted interior designer died January 30, 2005 in NY City at Mt Sinai Hospital from a congenital liver disease. Born in Park Chester, the Bronx, daughter of Frank and Johanna Leff, Naomi attended the High School of Music and Art in NYC, earned a BS from Cortland State University, an MA in Sociology at the University of Wisconsin, and an MFA in Environmental Design with a minor in Architecture from Pratt Institute. Naomi began her career at JC Warnecke, designing interiors for Nieman-Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman and from 1975-80 as a senior designer at Bloomingdales. She opened her namesake firm in 1980, concentrating on retail and residential design. Leff's skills became widely admired in 1986 when she transformed the 1898 Rhinelander Mansion at Madison and 72nd into the flagship store for Polo Ralph Lauren. Other retail clients in the U.S. included Saks Fifth Avenue, Ferragamo, Gucci, Giorgio Armani, and Helena Rubenstein, and in Canada a series of stores for Holt Renfrew. In 1991 she designed Shearson Lehman American Express' 25,000 sq/ ft Saddle Ridge Conf. Center in Beaver Creek, Colorado. She designed homes, planes, and yachts for some of the most prominent bicoastal entertainment and business people of today. Naomi was truly a star among stars. Leff was given the Mayor's Award by John Lindsay for her design of youth centers in NY and won ''Store of the Year'' for many of her designs. In 1990 she received the Distinguished Alumni Award from Pratt Institute, joined its board in 1991 and in 2000 received its ''Living Legends'' award. She was also a member of the Board of Directors of the Fashion Group. In 1991 she was inducted into the Interior Design Magazine Hall of Fame. She was perennially included in Architectural Digest's listings as one of the world's 100 top designers and recently was chosen by them as one of the top 30 in the country. Leff is survived her cousins Elle Engel of Orlando, FL and Lewis Oransof Houston, TX as well as several nieces and nephews. At Naomi's request there will be a very private service. A memorial service will be arranged for early March. In lieu of flowers memorial contributions may be made to ''Patient Access Fund'', Development Office, Mt. Sinai Hospital, Gustave Levy Place, Box 1049, NY,NY,10029. Barbara Ashley Karen Cohen Jack Hayflick
        LEFF--Naomi. Mourning the loss of a talented & nationally-recognized interior designer and dear friend. Zetlin & De Chiara LLP
      