
        BERSON--Samuel. Short of immortality, no one could have done it better than my father. Dad, most people who met you instantly developed fond and lasting affection for you. Simply stated, you were clearly an honest man. Your kind heart and easy manner, your charming sense of humor, and your unaffected modesty, all inspired affection in everyone who met you. But that was not all. You inspired admiration as a gifted physician and an innovative leader in the private hospital industry. You worked hard until your ninth decade. You remained devoted to your wife of 63 years and above all involved and interested in every member of your family; all 26 of us. The only facet you hid from everyone was your fighting spirit. You were always willing to compromise on every point in order to achieve harmony because you respected other people and felt that was the way to move forward in a spirit of cooperation. But you fought with all your heart for an extended life. And Dad, thankfully, you won that battle. You won it for yourself and you won it for us, your family. You gave us the gift of being here for so long. I thank you for being the man you were and for teaching all of us the real value of life and for loving each one of us so individually. In your own words, ''one is as precious to me as the next.'' I know you are at peace. You will always be alive in my heart. And Dad, remember this always, our memory of you is the most precious of all!! Your adoring daughter, Bonnie Stern
        BERSON--Dr. Samuel. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Dr. Samuel Berson, a cherished supporter who together with his beloved wife, Lolabee, set an example of philanthropic leadership in the New York Jewish community. That legacy is carried on through the dedication and generosity of their daughters, Bonnie Stern and Rhetta Felton, and their husbands, Steven Stern and Maxwell Felton. We extend our deepest sympathies to Lolabee, Bonnie and Steven, Rhetta and Maxwell, and the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        BERSON--Samuel L., M.D. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Iolabee, his daughter Rhetta Felton and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft, President
        BERSON--Samuel L., MD. Founder and former owner of Kings Highway Hospital in Brooklyn, New York. The staff and physicians are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed leader and mentor. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife and family.
      