
        ROBBINS--Mary B. Died peacefully in her sleep February 8, 2005. Born in 1913 in Appleton, WS, her father was E.H. Brooks, MD. Nee Mary Josephine Brooks, she married Thomas C. Schwartzburg in 1935. He died in 1953. She married James M. Robbins in 1956 and they shared life for 42 years until his death in 1999. She has lived in Bedford, NY since 1936. Mrs. Robbins was very active in the local community, serving on the Ration Board in the war years. She was a key player in the land purchase where Fox Lane High School now stands, serving on the Town of Bedford School Board 1950-1953. She also served on the boards of the Children's Aid Society, the Red Cross and the District Nurse Association. She was a founding member of the Katonah Art Gallery in the 1950's. In 1982 Mrs. Robbins received the Volunteer Services of Westchester Volunteer of the Year Award. Health care has been a major interest and concern of Mrs. Robbins throughout her life in Northern Westchester. Mrs. Robbins' long and distinguished career at the Northern Westchester Hospital began in 1946, when, as a member of The Junior League of Northern Westchester, she helped to establish the first Hospitality Shop. She worked on many different projects, including fund raising, recruiting, and volunteering. As Chairman of the Membership Committee of the hospital Auxiliary she increased membership from 200 to 500. She accumulated 20,000 hours of volunteer work before they quit counting when she was elected to the Board of Trustees, where she served four terms and was Emerita Trustee. A piano and voice major in college, she loved singing. She served on the board of The Northern Westchester Concerts Association and worked closely with her dear friend Lucie Bigelow Rosen, during the founding of the Caramoor Festival. Mrs. Robbins served on the Caramoor Foundation board for many years. She was a member of the Green Mountain Girls in Dorset, VT, The Junior League, The Daughters of the American Revolution, the Bedford Golf and Tennis Club, the Rusticus Garden Club, the Saratoga Reading Room, the Colony Club, and the Mayflower Society. Mrs. Robbins is survived by her sons John A. and Thomas C. Schwartzburg, niece Laurie Jefferson Brandt and great niece Eowyn, stepsons E. Brooks and James O. Robbins, stepdaughter Barbara Robbins Anderson, 10 grandchildren and 10 great grandchildren. There will be a memorial service for Mrs. Robbins at 2 P.M. Saturday, February 19 at the St. Matthew's Church, Route 22, Bedford, N.Y. Please send contributions in Mrs. Robbins' name to the Northern Westchester Hospital, 400 Main St., Mount Kisco, N.Y. 10549.
      