
        MOORE--Elaine Pohl. June 18, 1927-February 25, 2005. Wife of the late Melvin Moore, M.D., mother of Abigail and Eli, mother-in-law of Lynn, grandmother of Benjamin Wexler and Alyssa and Melanie Moore, sister of Bernice Pohl Feldman. Passed away after a courageous struggle following a long illness. Born in Brooklyn to Elsie Brickner and Dr. Samuel H. Pohl. Educated at the Yeshivah of Flatbush, Herzlia Teachers College and Jewish Theological Seminary Teachers College, graduate of Wellesley College class of 1949 as a Durant Scholar. Activist in Jewish and Zionist causes over the course of a lifetime. With her husband, Elaine held many leadership positions in the Yeshivah of Flatbush, often addressing the students in fluent Hebrew. Active for many years in New York United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies Women's Division, including a tenure as its over-all chairman. Vice-president of NYANA, member of the Lion of Judah Society, chair of the UJA-Federation Task Force on Women, member of the Board of Directors of the New York Jewish Women's Foundation, steady volunteer in the annual Passover Outreach Program. Prime supporter of Wellesley College and patron of the arts. Valued congregant of the Hampton Synagogue. She will be greatly missed by her many friends and family. Funeral on Sunday February 27 at 11:30 A.M. at the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue, NYC.
        MOORE--Elaine Pohl. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Elaine Pohl Moore, beloved wife of the late Dr. Melvin Moore. Elaine was a passionate and much-esteemed leader whose commitment made an indelible impact on the global Jewish community. She served with distinction as chair of our Women's Campaign and our Task Force on the Jewish Woman; as a member of our Commission on the Jewish People; and was actively involved with our beneficiary agencies. We extend our deepest sympathies to Elaine's sister, Bernice Feldman; to her daughter, Abigail; to her son, Eli, and his wife, Lynn; to her grandchildren Alyssa, Melanie, and Benjamin; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        MOORE--Elaine Pohl. We are gravely saddened by Elaine's death. She was an early member of the Foundation and a creative and intelligent participant in our work until her death. Her concerns for Jewish women and girls will continue to inspire the Foundation. She was, like her memory, a blessing. The Jewish Women's Foundation of New York Betsy Landis, President Sherri Greenbach, Exec Dir
        MOORE--Elaine Pohl. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of our beloved and cherished benefactor, Elaine Pohl Moore. To her daughter, Abigail, her son, Eli, her sister, Bernice and to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B. Weisbrod, Pres. Seymour G. Siegel, Treas.
      