
        FISHER--Bertram D., 76, of Manhattan and Sagaponack, NY died peacefully on February 17, 2005 with his family at his side. He was a founding partner with Fred Queller in 1970 of the New York law firm, Queller & Fisher LLP, and was selected by The New York Law Journal ''Best Negligence Lawyers.'' He was past president of the Jewish Lawyers' Guild, a former Dean of the New York State Trial Lawyers Institute, a member of the Ethics Committee of the New York State Bar Association, a member of the Board of Directors of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association, and an Associate of the American College of Legal Medicine. His many charitable pursuits led to his selection as Man of the Year by The National Conference for Furtherance of Jewish Education, and by The Institute of Jewish Humanities. Mr. Fisher served on the Board of Directors of Community Mayors of New York State and was the recipient of the Community Mayors Humanitarian Award which was presented by Mayor Rudolph Guiliani for his work with handicapped children. He was a veteran of the Korean War and was awarded the Bronze Star for heroism in combat. Devoted father, loving grandfather, caring brother, he is survived by his daughters, Brooke Fisher of Manhattan, Beth Cutler and her husband Marc of Greenwich, CT; grandchildren Philip and Caroline Cutler; sister Barbara Reingold and his former wife Barbara Fisher with whom he remained close. His generosity, wisdom, gentleness and love remain a blessing to his family and all who knew him. Funeral services will be held today 12:45pm at The Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th St, NY, NY 10023. 212-362-6600. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Greenwich Hospital, Development Office, 89 Lake Avenue, Greenwich, CT 06830.
        FISHER--Bertram D. The Jewish Lawyers Guild records with profound sorrow the passing of Bertram D. Fisher, a longtime member and former president. He will be remembered as a staunch supporter of Jewish causes and a giant in the legal profession. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Michael L. Katz, President Lisa A. Sokoloff, Chairperson of Board of Governors
        FISHER--Bertram D. We mourn the loss of our dedicated friend and supporter. We extend our sympathy to his family whom he loved. Rabbi Pinchus Wechter The Institute of Jewish Humanities
      