
        COMINS--Frederic Marshall, of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., died peacefully, at home, February 8th, after a long battle with Prostate Cancer. Born in New York City, October 8, 1916, Fred graduated from Fieldston School in 1933 and graduated Magna Cum Laude, in Economic Theory, from Harvard College in 1937. Fred then worked several years, in manufacturing, in Manila, P.I. From 1942-1945 he served with the rank of Major and Tank Commander in WW II under Brigadier General Willard Holbrook, with the 11th Armored Division of the 3rd Army. He also served under General George Patton at the Battle of the Bulge. He was awarded the Bronze Star. With the first group of American soldiers, of the 11th Armored Division, Fred opened the gates of the Mauthausen Concentration Camp, in Austria, and freed the prisoners at the war's end. Fred retired from the Army in 1946 as a Lt. Colonel. Most of his business life was spent as a distributor for RCA. For many years, he was a member of the Schools and Scholarship Committees, at Harvard University, in Cambridge, MA. A past President of the Harvard Club, of New Jersey, and former member of the Boards of the Harmonie Club, and the Harvard Club, both of NYC. Longtime member of the Hollywood Golf Club, Deal, NJ, and Sunningdale CC, Scarsdale, NY. Fred and his family lived for many years in Short Hills, NJ, and at 870 United Nations Plaza, in NYC. He retired from business in 1995 and then worked Pro Bono for SCORE (Service Core of Retired Executives). Beloved and devoted husband, for 57 years, of Edith Krich Comins, he leaves their three sons, Frederic Jr., of Fort Myers, FL, Bruce Max, of Woodstock, VT., and Andrew M., of Los Angeles, CA., four grandsons, Justin Scot, Jamison, Jordan, and Drew Comins, and two nieces, Alice Tepper Marlin and Nancy Moyer.
        COMINS--Frederic M. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Frederic M. Comins. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Edith and the entire family. Patricia Sumergrade, Pres. Richard J. Bronstein, Secy
      