
        RAMSEUR -- Thomas M. White & Case LLP acknowledges with great sorrow the death January 27, 2005 of our longtime colleague and dear friend Thomas M. Ramseur, a retired partner of the Firm. Tom Ramseur was a member of White & Case for 30 years until his retirement in 1986. He was an outstanding lawyer in the Firm's corporate department, renowned for his dedication to his clients. For a generation of White & Case lawyers who followed him, Tom was the embodiment of a mentor. He sought out young partners and associates, took an abiding interest in their work and careers, and imparted wisdom and knowledge about the law, serving clients and the community of lawyers who comprise this firm. Today, the ranks of White & Case are filled with those who recall affectionately the lessons, values and friendship he extended so generously to others at every rank and position. Clients regarded Tom as a trusted adviser intensely devoted to them. Practicing in an era of generalists, Tom epitomized the ''renaissance'' corporate lawyer, handling all manner of complex financial transactions: tender offers, refinancings, mergers and acquisitions, all with equal authority. For three years in the late-1960s, Tom headed the White & Case office in Paris. In leading the Firm's original non-US office, he was one of those who laid the foundation for what would become White & Case's global mission. Tom Ramseur also made a lasting mark beyond his profession. He served his nation with valor as an Army lieutenant in World War II, performing the perilous duty of target-spotting in light aircraft behind enemy lines to guide artillery strikes against enemy positions. He was an accomplished steeplechaser, having ridden at age sixteen in the Maryland Hunt Cup, the most venerable of American timber races. He excelled as a student at The Hill School, Princeton University and the Columbia University School of Law. For all his accomplishments, Tom Ramseur is best remembered at White & Case for his generous and genial spirit and his unwavering devotion to his colleagues. The values and principles he imbued will remain part of the fabric of White & Case for years to come. We extend our deepest sympathies to Suzanne and his children, Katie and Michael.
      