
        CRABTREE--Robert Edward, Sr. Of Greenwich, CT and Vero Beach, FL died of heart failure at his home on Wednesday, February 9, 2005. He was an active automobile executive for Crabtree Automotive Group. Mr. Crabtree was born in New York on October 11, 1926. He was a graduate of the United States Merchant Marine Academy, and served in WWII. An exceptional athlete, he held the Iona Prep 220 and 440 track record for over 20 years. He also competed in the Millrose Games at Madison Square Garden. An avid skier and golfer, he was a member at the Stanwich Club, Double Eagle, Windsor, Red Stick, John's Island Club, Quail Valley River Club, and Stratton Mountain Club. His automotive career spanned 52 years. Mr Crabtree became the youngest Dodge dealer in the country at only 26 years of age when he succeeded his father, Joseph Clarke Crabtree, founder of Crabtree Motors, a ChryslerPlymouth, and Dodge dealer in New Rochelle, NY. In 1971, he became one of the original Toyota Dealers in the Eastern United States. He later built his business in New Rochelle to include Ford, Jaguar, Nissan, Cadillac, Mitsubishi, MG, Triumph, and Suzuki. Subsequently, he sold his Westchester properties to expand into Connecticut with Colonial Toyota, Westport Toyota, Lexus of Westport, Derby Dodge, Shelton Mitsubishi, and Crabtree Cadillac, Subaru, Kia. Mr. Crabtree was a devoted husband, father and grandfather. His greatest love was his family. Robert is survived by his wife, June Langran Crabtree, and four children, Margaret ''Muffy'' Lyster of Versailles, KY; Constance ''Pinky'' Markey of Greenwich, CT, Joseph Crabtree of Huntington, CT, and Robert Crabtree, Jr. of Easton, CT. He was pre-deceased by his son Michael Crabtree. In addition, Robert Crabtree is survived by his step children, Marilyn Juan of Greenwich, CT, and Walter Peek of Rye, NY, plus thirteen grandchildren; Meredith Joncs, Gray Lyster, Bryan Lyster, T.J. Markey, Kelly Markey, Sarah Crabtree, Morgan Crabtree, Emily Crabtree, Joseph Crabtree, Michaela Crabtree, Maggie Crabtree, Michael Crabtree, and Katie Crabtree, three step grandchildren Walter Peek, Alex Juan and Elizabeth Juan, as well as his brother, Richard Crabtree. Viewing will be at St. Michael's Church on Friday, February 11, from 4 to 9 PM. Services will also be held at St. Michael's Church on Saturday, February 12, at 11:00 AM. Contributions may be sent to St. Michael's Church, 469 North Street, Greenwich, CT 06830.
      