
        FORD--Natasha Boissevain, died quietly Sunday morning in Greenwich Hospital after a very short illness. She was 72. The cause was complications of lung cancer, said Dick Ford, her husband of 24 years. Mrs. Ford was born June 14, 1932 in Nice, France of the late Mrs. J. Russell Maguire of Greenwich, CT and the late John Magee Boissevain of Newport, RI and Nice, France. As a New York debutante in 1950, Marjorie Farnsworth referred to her as ''a glittering deb who was one of the most beautiful girls to come out in New York society that year.'' She began her career in 1953 as a receptionist at the Steuben Glass Shop of 5th Avenue; later joining The American Mercury Magazine where she was Managing Editor from 1954 through 1958, at the time one of the youngest managing directors for a national magazine. She also served as Board Chairman of HOTLINE, a telephone crisis and counseling organization. Mrs. Ford is the owner of Natasha & Company, an interior design firm, and was the past owner and president of The American Fitness Institute, Inc. before it was sold to The New York Sports Club in May 1999. Mrs. Ford is an alumna of The Ethel Walker School and received her degree in Psychology, summa cum laude, from Manhattanville College in 1978. Mrs. Ford was an extremely dedicated and loyal supporter of The New York Botanical Garden and its mission. She was a generous Patron of the Garden and was a valued member of the Garden's Horticulture Committee. In addition, she served on many committees for the Garden's fundraising events, and had served as a Vice Chairman for the Garden's annual Rose Garden Dinner Dance and Orchid Dinner. She is a co-member of the Indian Harbor Yacht Club. In addition to her beloved husband and best friend, Dick, she is survived by her three daughters, Sabrina Pray Forsythe of Greenwich, CT; Melanie ''Lilly'' B. Pray of Boulder, CO; and Natasha Justina Gagne also of Greenwich, CT. Her son, Malcolm S. Pray III predeceased her. She was also predeceased by a half brother William ''Billy'' de Prorock and a half sister Marina Maguire. A half sister Cynthia Madigan resides in England. A cousin Odette Terrel des Chenes lives in Austin, TX. She had five grandchildren, Courtney Margaret and Nicole Suzanne Fischer; Portia Boissevain Pray; Natasha Alden and Malcolm Parker Grayson. In lieu of flowers, contributions in Natasha's memory may be made to Channel 13, The New York Botanical Garden, or Medecins Sans Frontiers (Doctors Without Borders). A service in celebration of Mrs. Ford's life will be held at Christ Church, 254 E. Putnam Avenue, Greenwich, CT on Thursday, February 17th at 11AM, followed by a reception at the Round Hill Club, Greenwich, CT.
      