
        SMITH--Richard E. A wellknown figure in the consumer goods world and heralded as an innovator who was formative in shaping the ice cream and frozen dessert industry, passed away on Saturday, January 29, at the age of 62. Descended from three generations of New York City purveyors of ice cream, Richard was Co-Chairman and CoChief Executive of CoolBrands International Inc., the Canadian ice cream maker which owns Chipwich, Eskimo Pie and the license for many branded frozen desserts, including Godiva Ice Cream and Tropicana fruit bars. He led the company from Ronkonkoma, New York, and was a resident of Southampton, New York. It was said that ice cream was in Richard's blood. His grandfather started Smith Brothers Ice Cream in the early 1900's, one of the first distributors of ice cream in the New York metropolitan area that made deliveries using horse drawn carriage. His father, Lester Smith, founder of Duvall French Ice Cream, owned and operated the last ice cream manufacturing plant in Manhattan, located at 92nd and 2nd Avenue. Richard Smith, however, built his own business from the ground up. In his mid-20's, he bought a partnership interest in Calip Dairies, Inc., and created what is today one of the largest distributors of ice cream in the tri-state region and the manufacturer of such ice cream brands as Dolly Madison, Schrafft's and Sedutto. In 1980 he created FrsenGladj, the super premium ice cream with the memorable name and the futuristic white, sculptured container that he later sold to Kraft Foods in 1995. That same year he bought Steve's Ice Cream of Boston, which he took public in 1986 as Steve's Homemade Ice Cream, Inc. The company then acquired Swensen's Ice Cream and grew to be a major ice cream manufacturer and franchisor. He merged his company (then called Integrated Brands, Inc.) with Yogen Frz World-Wide Inc. to create CoolBrands International Inc. in 1998. Under Richard's leadership, CoolBrands acquired The Eskimo Pie Corporaton in 2000, then Fruit-A-Freeze and Chipwich in 2002. In 2003, the company also bought Nestle's U.S. ice cream distribution operations; Dreyer's super premium brands Dreamery Ice Cream and Whole Fruit Sorbet; and the license for Godiva Ice Cream. Most recently, CoolBrands entered into an agreement to acquire Breyer's Yogurt from Kraft Foods. Richard was seen as the consummate entrepreneur whom many have called a ''larger than life'' figure. His colleagues and competitors remember him as a passionate and tireless worker who was remarkable for his creative intelligence, detailed knowledge of the business, and tremendous determination and persistence. He was also known for his deep devotion to his family and for his unpretentious demeanor and generous spirit. He was active in raising money for philanthropic causes, including the Diabetes Research Institute and many other charities. Richard Smith was born in 1942 in the Bronx, and attended Great Neck North High School on Long Island. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Ohio University and attended Syracuse Law School. Richard is survived by his mother, Fay; his loving wife of 39 years, Susan; his son, David; his two grandsons, Jared and James; and three godchildren, Ben, Hannah and Juliana Stein. He will be greatly missed.
      