
        FIELD--John W., age 90, died on Sunday, January 30, 2005 in Redding, Connecticut. Mr. Field was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut on September 15, 1914. He graduated from the Hotchkiss School and Yale University where he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. After graduation in 1937, Mr. Field joined Time Inc. as a junior news editor. During World War II, he served as a war correspondent for Life magazine and later as war editor. He was National Affairs Editor of Life in 1947 when he left to join the Warner Brothers Company now Warnaco. Mr. Field was elected President in 1957, Chief Executive in 1958 and Chairman in 1973. During his years there, the company grew to become a diversified publicly held apparel company with brands such as Warner's, White Stag, Hathaway, Speedo and many others. He retired in 1979 and remained on the board until the company was sold in 1986. Before and after his retirement Mr. Field was a trustee of Colby College in Waterville, Maine, chairman of the board of the University of Bridgeport and chairman of Fairfield Country Day School. He was on the board of the Connecticut National Bank and its successor, the Hartford National Bank (both now Bank of America). He served on the board of the Bridgeport Hospital, the Fairfield Red Cross and the International Silver Company (later Insilco). Returning to writing after his retirement, he wrote and had published ''Rendezvous With Destiny'', a history of his generation told through the experiences of his Yale 1937 classmates. For this work he received the Yale Medal, the highest honor Yale gives for service to the University. Mr. Field was a member of the Country Club of Fairfield, where he was also President, and a former member of the Pequot Yacht Club, the Aspetuck Fish and Game Club, the Fairfield County Hunt Club and the Yale Club of New York City. Mr. Field's wife, Priscilla, died in February 2003 after 64 years of marriage. He is survived by their daughter, Margaret W. Field of Warren, CT, sons, John W. Field, Jr. and his wife Elizabeth of Greenville, DE and David W. Field and his wife Victoria of Chapel Hill, NC, six grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren. A memorial service will be held 11:00 AM on Friday, February 4, 2005 at Trinity Episcopal Church, Southport, CT. In lieu of flowers memorial contributions may be made to Trinity Episcopal Church, 651 Pequot Ave., Southport, CT 06890.
      