
        POOR--Charles Lane III. Resident of Washington, DC, and Nonquitt, MA, died Thursday morning, February 3, 2005, at Georgetown University Hospital after a prolonged illness, at the age of 85. Mr. Poor was a graduate of Harvard College, Class of 1941, and an aeronautical engineer. He served in the Navy during World War II. His career included work at the Aberdeen Proving Grounds, where he was instrumental in establishing the first supersonic wind tunnel in this country following World War II. He also served as Assistant Secretary of the Army for Research and Development. Mr. Poor was an avid sailor, and was a member of the Cruising Club of America, the New Bedford Yacht Club, and the Annapolis Yacht Club. He sailed extensively on the Chesapeake Bay and in ocean races. He also worked for years on US Sailing's International Measurement System Committee, and on the international Ocean Racing Congress (ORC), at one time serving as chairman of the International Technical Committee, and more recently as a member of the ORC Committee of Honour. Mr. Poor was active in various groups in the Washington, DC, area. He served as chairman of the Citizens Association of Georgetown. He was also a member of the City Tavern Club, and the Chevy Chase Club. He loved choral music, and was an active participant in Bach and Beer, a men's singing group. Mr. Poor is survived by his wife, Edith Cowles Poor of Washington, DC, his brother Sheppard Poor of Rumson, NJ, his four sons, Lane Poor of Warren, RI, David Poor of Jenkintown, PA, Alfred Poor of Perkasie, PA, and Robert Poor of Boston, MA, and his two step-daughters, Nancy Greene of San Luis Obispo, CA, and Lila Greene of Paris, France. He is also survived by 14 grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held Saturday, February 12, 2005, at 3 pm, at St. Alban's Church at 3001 Wisconsin Avenue NW in Washington, DC. A reception will be held in the church social hall immediately following the service. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, donations be made in his memory to either the Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center at Georgetown University Hospital, or the Chesapeake Bay Foundation in Annapolis, MD.
      