
        BERSON--Samuel. Short of immortality, no one could have done it better than my father. Dad, most people who met you instantly developed fond and lasting affection for you. Simply stated, you were clearly an honest man. Your kind heart and easy manner, your charming sense of humor, and your unaffected modesty, all inspired affection in everyone who met you. But that was not all. You inspired admiration as a gifted physician and an innovative leader in the private hospital industry. You worked hard until your ninth decade. You remained devoted to your wife of 63 years and above all involved and interested in every member of your family; all 26 of us. The only facet you hid from everyone was your fighting spirit. You were always willing to compromise on every point in order to achieve harmony because you respected other people and felt that was the way to move forward in a spirit of cooperation. But you fought with all your heart for an extended life. And Dad, thankfully, you won that battle. You won it for yourself and you won it for us, your family. You gave us the gift of being here for so long. I thank you for being the man you were and for teaching all of us the real value of life and for loving each one of us so individually. In your own words, ''one is as precious to me as the next.'' I know you are at peace. You will always be alive in my heart. And Dad, remember this always, our memory of you is the most precious of all!! Your adoring daughter, Bonnie Stern
        BERSON--Samuel L., M.D. On February 2nd, 2005. Beloved husband of Iolabee. Loving father of Rhetta and Dr. Maxwell Felton and Bonnie and Steven Stern. Dear brother of Bernice Fishman. Adoring grandfather of Nicole and Paul Ginsberg, Aimee and Jonathan Freedman, Lauren and Jonathan Roberts, Gregg and Marla Felton, Dara and Evan Behrens and David and Heather Stern. Great grandfather of Sydney, Alexandra, Molly, Nathalie, Jackson, Benjamin, Andrew, William and Sasha. You called each one of us ''precious'' but it was only because we were a part of you. Service Friday, 12:30 P.M. at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.
        BERSON--Dr. Samuel. Lifelong soul mate to his most beloved wife, Iola, Sam Berson was a father, friend and physician beyond compare. An honorable man of the highest integrity, never without a smile, Sam's healing touch knew no stranger. A pillar of gentle strength, guiding and inspiring his devoted family and a wellspring of caring commitment, Sam brought about real change in his community. His spirit lives on in each kind word and thoughtful gesture that those of us, privileged to know him, will pass along and we will honor his memory by fulfilling his legacy, embracing and affirming life fully and with vigor. Sam's place in our hearts will always be alive and well. Wanda and Alvin Dworman and Family
        BERSON--Dr. Samuel. Our loving father, mentor, confidante and friend. You were the most incredible and doting grandfather and greatgrandfather to our children and grandchildren, never missing a birthday, a soccer game, a recital. You will always be remembered as the centerpiece of our family, the trunk of a beautiful family tree of life. We promise to honor you in our own lives by continuing the love of life and family that you have passed on to us. Rhetta and Max
        BERSON--Samuel. Dear Peepop, you were such an important part of our lives that it is hard to imagine life without you. You taught us to be kind. You taught us to be forgiving. But, most of all, you taught us to love. We pledge to honor your memory by carrying on your legacy of love. You taught us well, Peepop. We promise to make you proud. Adoringly and forever. Nikki, Paul, Sydney, Alex, and Benjamin.
        BERSON--Dr. Samuel. Our beloved Pee Pop, our grandfather, our great-grandfather, our mentor, our friend, the epitome of godliness on earth. You have taught us how to live by your beautiful example. We will always honor your memory. You will forever live on in our hearts. Gregg, Marla, Nathalie and Andrew
        BERSON--Dr. Samuel. Our family is deeply saddened by the loss of our beloved grandfather who showed us all how to live, love and make dreams come true. We are so lucky to have shared so many wonderful years with him. You will always be our hero. We love you PeePop. Lauren, Jon, Molly & Jackson
        BERSON--Samuel, M.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend, a renowned physician, family patriarch and a man of all seasons. We shall miss you. The Monday Bridge Club Hank Burr, Dr. Sidney S. Feuerstein, Jack Gara and J. Lew Schepps
        BERSON -- Samuel. You touched everyone who knew you. An era of greatness gone by. Our strength, our courage, our inspiration and our hero. Gramps, we will miss you dearly and you will forever be in our hearts. David and Heather Dara and Evan
        BERSON--Dr. Samuel. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and fellow member, Samuel Berson. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Iolabee, his children and to other members of his family. Allen J. Ross, President
        BERSON--Dr. Samuel. We will always treasure memories of Central Park, weekends in the country, and the knowledge, love and wisdom you bestowed upon us all. What a wonderful legacy you've left behind. Aimee, Jonathan and William Freedman
        BERSON--Dr. Samuel. We are deeply saddened by the loss of Sam Berson, a true gentleman and a true friend. Our heartfelt condolences to the family. Sara, Charles, Harlan, Eric and Elaine Fabrikant
        BERSON--Samuel, M.D. To our dear, sweet ''prince in the park''. You gave true meaning to the adage ''age is a state of mind''. We valued our special relationship. Rochelle and David Hirsch
        BERSON--Dr. Samuel His life was a star that illuminated all. Robert, Nancy, Alex, Drew, Adam and Gretchen.
        BERSON -- Samuel. Your warmth and kindness touched all who knew you. Joan & Stuart Schapiro and Family
        BERSON--Dr. Samuel. A man of honor, respect and dignity. He will be profoundly missed. Simha Stern
        BERSON--Samuel. He was a great gentleman and dear friend. Larry and Betty Milowsky
      