
        HAGEDORN--Horace. Marketing genius, entrepreneur, executive, philanthropist, father, husband and family leader passed peacefully at home on January 31. He lived, laughed and loved for almost 90 years and will be joyfully remembered and deeply missed by his wife Amy, his six children, 22 grandchildren, five greatgrandchildren and hundreds of others whose lives he touched. A memorial celebration will be held in March. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to the Long Island Community Foundation for the Horace Hagedorn Memorial Fund, 1740 Old Jericho Tpke, Jericho, NY 11753.
        HAGEDORN--Horace. The Partnership For After School Education (PASE)is deeply saddened by the death of our great friend, creative genius with Miracle-Gro, and giant in the field of philanthropy for youth, Horace Hagedorn. We are so grateful for his commitment and immense generosity to low income youth in New York City and Long Island. Horace lived by the philosophy of giving back to the earth and its people in need, through sharing the riches he reaped from its soil. His wife, Amy, and his children--Sue, Kate, Jim, Peter, Paul, and Rob, followed suit and have given generously to the long term education and support of youth (The Miracle-Gro Kids College Education Programs at Project Reach Youth in Brooklyn and in Columbus, Ohio among others). Horace and Amy launched our PASE Youth Network, in Long Island with LI Community Foundation, and Amy is a highly valued member on the Boards of PASE in New York and Long Island. Our thoughts and hearts are with Amy, and the entire Hagedorn family. Janet Kelley, Executive Director Alison Overseth, Board Chair
        HAGEDORN--Horace. He appreciated a good joke, relished confrontation, enjoyed a challenge and kept us on our toes. The Long Island Community Foundation is forever enriched by its close association with Horace and Amy Hagedorn. The board and staff will miss his determination, curiosity, insights, great smile and optimism. He brought to philanthropy the same incisive analysis, marketing genius and creativity that helped build his horticultural business. He was a man who wanted to make a difference with his philanthropy, and we are so proud that this Foundation served as the vehicle through which he did. We join Horace's family in celebrating his life, mourning our loss and, together with Amy, continuing his legacy of philanthropy on Long Island.
        HAGEDORN -- Horace. Project Reach Youth, Inc. salutes the life of a champion and mourns his death. We are deeply saddened that Horace Hagedorn who has given so much to our Brooklyn community has died. It was Horace and his family that fertilized a garden of fifty low-income youth and their families (Miracle Gro Kids Program) to make a college education ''a promise not a dream.'' He did it with the power of kindness, generosity, and conviction. He truly put back into the soil what he took out. He will be truly missed. David Puth, Board Chair Mark Gibbel, Board President Robert Madison, Exec. Dir.
        HAGEDORN -- Horace. He brought beauty to our landscape, then enriched it with endless acts of charity. Ever frugal, never flamboyant, he favored charities whose expenses were low, to maximize the impact of his gifts. For us he was special, always testing our skills, but when he called us ''friend'' we knew we had done well. His memory endures in his legacy of giving and through his wonderful family who carry on his tradition of ''always putting back something, not simply taking.'' We will miss him. The Partners of Joel E. Sammet & Co.
        HAGEDORN--Horace. The Parent-Child Home Program is deeply saddened by the death of our friend and benefactor Horace Hagedorn. His generosity has provided school readiness services to low income children across Long Island. We will miss his wise counsel. Our condolences to Amy and the Hagedorn family.
      