
        HAGEDORN--Horace. The Partnership For After School Education (PASE)is deeply saddened by the death of our great friend, creative genius with Miracle-Gro, and giant in the field of philanthropy for youth, Horace Hagedorn. We are so grateful for his commitment and immense generosity to low income youth in New York City and Long Island. Horace lived by the philosophy of giving back to the earth and its people in need, through sharing the riches he reaped from its soil. His wife, Amy, and his children--Sue, Kate, Jim, Peter, Paul, and Rob, followed suit and have given generously to the long term education and support of youth (The Miracle-Gro Kids College Education Programs at Project Reach Youth in Brooklyn and in Columbus, Ohio among others). Horace and Amy launched our PASE Youth Network, in Long Island with LI Community Foundation, and Amy is a highly valued member on the Boards of PASE in New York and Long Island. Our thoughts and hearts are with Amy, and the entire Hagedorn family. Janet Kelley, Executive Director Alison Overseth, Board Chair
        HAGEDORN--Horace. The Institute for Student Achievement mourns the passing of Horace Hagedorn, great friend, longtime board member and life director, generous supporter. A savvy and sweet man who believed ''You have to keep putting something back,'' Horace gave back in so many ways to ISA, offering his wisdom in service as a board member, his generosity by sponsoring ISA's program for underserved students at Roosevelt Jr/Sr High School, his steadfastness through an unwavering support to the Institute's vital mission and programs. His thoughtfulness and optimism will live on in the hundreds of students who graduated thanks to his philanthropy and great spirit. His memory will live on in the sense of honor, vitality and hope he wore so jauntily and shared so selflessly. Our deepest and most heartfelt sympathies go out to his wife Amy and the children. Gerry House, Pres & CEO Institute for Student Achievement
        HAGEDORN--Horace. ''You can't keep taking the good stuff out of the earth, you have to keep putting something back.'' 1915-2005. Thank you, Horace, for giving back. WLIW21 New York Public Television, mourns the passing of our Board Member, generous benefactor and friend. His passion and dedication inspired us, and his commitment to public broadcasting and educational services enriched our community. His legacy will live on in his many philanthropic efforts with WLIW21, and our sister station, Thirteen, including the Reading Partnership Project ror high-need elementary schools on Long Island. Our condolences to Amy, and the Hagedorn family. Terrel L. Cass, President & Gen Mgr Barry Shapiro, Chairman, Board of Trustees LIETV Council, Inc
        HAGEDORN--Horace. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of long-time supporter and philanthropist Horace Hagedorn. Throughout the years, Mr. Hagedorn was a generous and supportive friend to Hofstra and the entire Long Island community. The generosity of Horace and Amy Hagedorn, combined with a grant from New York State, enabled Hofstra to completely renovate the former federal courthouse, named Hagedorn Hall in 2003, which houses the School of Education and Allied Human Services. In tribute to the memory of Horace Hagedorn, all Hofstra University flags have been lowered to half staff. Salvatore F. Sodano Chairman, Board of Trustees Stuart Rabinowitz President Hofstra University
        HAGEDORN -- Horace. Project Reach Youth, Inc. salutes the life of a champion and mourns his death. We are deeply saddened that Horace Hagedorn who has given so much to our Brooklyn community has died. It was Horace and his family that fertilized a garden of fifty low-income youth and their families (Miracle Gro Kids Program) to make a college education ''a promise not a dream.'' He did it with the power of kindness, generosity, and conviction. He truly put back into the soil what he took out. He will be truly missed. David Puth, Board Chair Mark Gibbel, Board President Robert Madison, Exec. Dir.
        HAGEDORN -- Horace. He brought beauty to our landscape, then enriched it with endless acts of charity. Ever frugal, never flamboyant, he favored charities whose expenses were low, to maximize the impact of his gifts. For us he was special, always testing our skills, but when he called us ''friend'' we knew we had done well. His memory endures in his legacy of giving and through his wonderful family who carry on his tradition of ''always putting back something, not simply taking.'' We will miss him. The Partners of Joel E. Sammet & Co.
        HAGEDORN--Horace. Family and Children's Association Board Chair Daniel Brown; President and CEO Richard P. Dina; the Board of Trustees, Staff, Volunteers and Clients extend heartfelt sympathy to Amy Hagedorn and the entire Hagedorn family as we mourn the passing of Horace Hagedorn, our cherished Trustee, Benefactor, Mentor and Friend.
        HAGEDORN--Horace. Horace Hagedorn was an original. His dedication and commitment to children's issues was extraordinary. Our condolences to Amy and the family. North Shore Child & Family Guidance Center
      