
        CANICK--Moses Leon, M.D., age 82, died on February 2, 2005 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was a Professor Emeritus and former Chief of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at SUNY Health Science Center, Director of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at Kings County Hospital and former Chief of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at Brookdale Medical Center, all of Brooklyn. The only twice elected President of the Alumni Association-College of Medicine, SUNY Downstate Medical Center, he was a recipient of the Frank L. Babbott Memorial Award for Excellence in Teaching, a Diplomate of the American Board of Plastic Surgery and Fellow of the American College of Surgeons, and the author of numerous publications on plastic and reconstructive surgery. Born on the fourth of July in 1922, Leon was a 1942 graduate of Rutgers University. He left medical school in 1943 to enter the U.S. Navy, and was skipper (Lt. J.G., USN) of an LCT in the Pacific theatre during WWII. He was present at the invasions of Okinawa and Iwo Jima and was a witness to the raising of the US flag on Mt. Surabachi. Returning to medical school after the War, Leon earned a medical degree at Long Island College Hospital (now SUNY Medical School) in 1949, and a graduate degree in history from New York University in 1980. Leon's life was dedicated to the practice of plastic surgery, imparting his knowledge and modesty to his beloved medical residence, and to enhancing the quality of life for his patients. An avid cyclist and accomplished pianist, from Chopin to the golden oldies, Leon's enthusiastic ''bravos'' at the opera and ballet will be missed. His enthusiasm, curiosity and appetite for life made him an interesting and great conversationalist and enabled him to bear the infirmities of aging with dignity, courage and humor. Many thanks to his doctors, whose support and affection for him was unflagging, to his nurses Elaine, Brigid and Eileen, who cared for him with professionalism and love and to loving and faithful Virginia and Dora. Eternal gratitude to his friends who gave care, love and compassion. Leon is survived by his beloved wife Josephine L. Berger-Nadler, his children Michael, Jonathan, Jenny and Eliott from his former marriage, his sisters Emma and Rachal and three grandchildren, Julia, Lily, and Melissa and is predeceased by his son William. Services at Park Avenue Synagogue, Tuesday, February 8, 2005 at 11AM. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the Oral History Program-WWII Program of Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ.
        CANICK--M. Leon M.D. Died February 2, 2005 after an extended illness. The Alumni Association of the SUNY Downstate College of Medicine is saddened by the passing of this much respected past president. Dr. Canick graduated from our medical school in 1949 and became a prominent member of the plastic surgery community. He received the Babbott memorial award and was a distinguished teacher. We will always remember Dr. Canick as a physician, his skill as a surgeon, and his tireless dedication to the Alumni Association. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Josephine and to his entire family. Alumni Association College of Medicine SUNY Downstate
      