
        GUSSMAN--Herbert. Of Tulsa, Oklahoma, on March 12, 2005, at the age of 93. Loving father of Ellen G. Adelson and Barbara G. Heyman. Loving grandfather of David Adelson, Robert Adelson, James Adelson, Thomas Adelson, Alexandra Nash and the late Claudia Heyman, and 17 great-grandchildren, and sons-in-law Dr. Stephen Adelson and Stephen Heyman. He was preceded in death by his beloved wife of 60 years, Roseline Nadel Gussman. A graduate of Cornell University, he worked at Lehman Brothers before he entered the oil business in the 1930's. He was amongst the pioneers of the modern oil industry and was amongst the first to employ and perfect the method of oil well acidization which today is standard procedure in the industry for oil and gas well stimulation. At one time, Nadel and Gussman was the largest independent oil producer in Kansas, and for many years was the largest independent oil producer in Osage County, Oklahoma's largest producing county. Today, from five regional offices the company is a significant producer of oil and gas. For many years Herbert Gussman was the chairman of the executive committee of the Missouri Pacific Railroad and was instrumental in the merging with the Union Pacific Railroad. A great lover of music, he was a founder of the Tulsa Philharmonic, and although his first musical love was classical, for many years he studied jazz piano with his friend, the late Teddy Wilson. His friendships in the world of music stretched from Isaac Stern, Leonard Bernstein, Eugene Istomin, Jan Pierce to Vladimer Golschmann, all who would stay and practice at his home when they came to Tulsa. He leaves a collection of French Impressionist paintings that is considered one of the finest private collections in the country. Under the tutelage of his late brother Lawrence Gussman, he built a large personal collection of African art, and along with his brother, endowed and donated many works to the Gussman Collection at the Philbrook Museum of Art. A lover and a student of the game of golf, he played to a low single digit handicap through most of his life. Beyond all of his interests, his family came first. He was always there for them. His love for them and their own achievements were so evident to all.
        GUSSMAN--Herbert. The employees of Nadel and Gussman mourn our founder Herbert Gussman, a visionary amongst oil men who boldly lead us into new areas and new technologies. He enriched us both as a human being and by making us participants in the company's successes while always stressing the highest ethics in all of our transactions. He so loved his family, his business, Cornell, the piano, art, an afternoon of golf, and he loved us.
      