
        BURDICK--Richard. A great loss is felt by our family and his many friends at the passing of Richard Smith Burdick, 88, on March 17, 2005 in Austin, Texas. He was predeceased by his wife of 54 years, Betty. He leaves his beloved fiance, Sherry Browne. He was the loving Father of Dorene and Bruce Burdick, and of daughter-inlaw Gwenellen; proud grandfather of Surya, Michelle, Orion, Douglass, and Melissa, and great-grandfather of Riley, Wolfie, Jake, and Amelie. He is also survived by his adored sister, Loyce and his close cousins, the Smiths: Penny, Ron, and Pat; and by the Coons cousins. Richard Burdick was born in Pittsfield, Mass. in 1916 among his treasured Berkshire Hills. A magician and writer even as a boy, he spent his stint in the Army as cowriter of This Is the Army with Irving Berlin. During that time he also wrote many stage musicals, radio dramas, and short stories. In the lifetime of a multifaceted career -writer, producer, actor, director, composer-lyricist, magician, and broadcasting executive -he enjoyed singular encounters with a mosaic of celebrated people: Ethel Barrymore, Mae West, Max Baer, Joe Louis, Tallulah Bankhead, Jimmy Durante, Gary Merrill, Helen Hayes, Kay Kyser, Dinah Shore, Duke Ellington, Dr. Dinton Cooley, Eleanor Roosevelt, President Truman, Reverend Billy Graham, and Dr. Timothy Johnson. Richard Burdick was a visionary pioneer in public broadcasting. He was a theatrical director and operations manager in early radio and he helped launch one of the first educational TV stations in the country -WUNC-TV in Chapel Hill, N.C. Following this, he was managing director at the public TV station WHYY in Philadelphia, always contributing original scripts. He was on the founding management team of WCVB , one of the top-rated TV stations in Boston which produced great quality, quantity, and diversity of local programming, and which the NY Times called the finest commercial TV station in America. He became a board member, contributing playwright ( of eleven plays), and supporter of Florida Studio Theater in Sarasota, Florida and also was cherished by other theatres including Shakespeare & Co. in Lenox, Mass. where he was a Founding Trustee member and where he contributed three plays. Richard had a talent for living, an unflagging and exceptional creative drive, and a generosity of spirit and mind that was highly motivating to his family, friends and associates. In his autobiography entitled: Next Time I Want To Come Back As a Yellow Bird, he opens with his usual flourish and excitement, asking ''Do you believe in magic?'' and he clearly did delight in Life's great mystery and drama; and always with his unique, Burdick wit. He closed the book with this comment: '' ...as the river of Life continues its eternal flow, my personal tributary will rejoin it on its way back to the source.'' A memorial gathering will take place in May in his home town of Pittsfield, Mass., details to be finalized soon. Cards can be sent to Sherry Browne, 8408 Hayes Lane, Austin, Texas 78759
      