
        BLECHNER -- Norbert, 94, peacefully in Manhattan, March 18, 2005. A giant of the metals industry, founder and CEO of Norore, after 40 years with Associated Metals and Minerals. Knighted in 1962 by King Baudouin of Belgium (Chevalier de l'Ordre de Leopold II). Co-founded the Blechner Center for Industrial Catalysis and Process Development and endowed the Blechner Chair in Jewish Values at Ben-Gurion University. A generous man whose kindness aided many. Born in Konigshofen im Grabfeld, Germany, May 30, 1910. Survived by his loving wife of 62 years, Hannah (Darmstadter) Blechner, children Jane Bressler and Dr. Mark Blechner of New York and Barbara Sevde of Portland, Oregon, and four grandchildren, Lee, Erin, Scott, and Daphne. Services Friday, March 18, 11:45 A.M. at The Riverside (Amsterdam Ave and 76th St.).
        BLECHNER -- Norbert. ''Words without deeds are nothing. One must show by way of example.'' David BenGurion said these words and Norbert Blechner lived them. The officers and Board of Governors of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev are deeply saddened by the passing of our dearest friend Norbert who was a source of inspiration in the world of business and philanthropy to Israel and the Jewish people. Our deepest condolences to his beloved wife, Hannah, his children Mark Blechner, Barbara Sevde and Jane Bressler and the entire family. Roy Zuckerberg, Chairman, Board of Governors Prof. Avishay Braverman, President
        BLECHNER -- Norbert. The officers and Board of Directors of American Associates, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, mourn the passing of our dear friend Norbert. A former member of the National Board of Directors and Board of Chancellors, we are forever grateful to his generosity and vision which has contributed to the University's many successes. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife of 62 years Hannah, his children and grandchildren. May his memory be a blessing. Lis Gaines, President Suzanne Nash, New York Region Chair D. Angie Lee, NY Region Sr. Assoc. Director
      