
        HANDLEMAN--Joseph. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of American Red Magen David for Israel (ARMDI) deeply mourn the passing of our Honorary Chairman at the age of 99. Mr. Handleman served as President, Chairman and Chairman of the International Committee of Magen David Adom. Through his leadership the people of Israel have modern emergency medical and blood services. Joe would often say ''You have to take advantage of all of life's challenges.'' This perspective coupled with his love of the Jewish people and Israel led to the building of the ARMDIMagen David Adom Blood Services Center, the only such center in Israel. In 1985 Mr. Handleman and his wife Sally, commissioned sculptor Nathan Rapoport to do the powerful ''Brotherhood of Man'' sculpture which today is in the Handleman Plaza in front of the ARMDI-Magen David Adom National Blood Services Center in Ramat, Gan, Israel. Mr. Handleman was an internationally known management and sales consultant. He was a pioneer in the distribution of health and beauty products to the supermarket industry. Handleman Company was founded in 1934 in Detroit, Michigan and today remains an industry leader. For more than 25 years his close contact, wise counsel and astute judgment helped American Red Magen David for Israel become the main diaspora supporter of Magen David Adom Israel. It was his vision that has enabled ARMDI and the American Jewish community to help insure safety for all the citizens of Israel. Mr. Handleman is survived by his wife of 69 years, Sally ( Kabaker); his children Joan Sadoff (Dr. Robert), Joyce Mueller (Hans) and Lynn Handleman. Grandchildren Debra Sadoff (Dr. Richard Seidelman), David Sadoff ( Dr. Claudia), Dr. Julie Sadoff (Dr. Malek Moazzan - Doulat), Sherry Hanck ( Brian), Christian Mueller, Marissa Mueller, Scott Handleman. Great Grandchildren; Jessica and Eric Seidelman, Haley, Rachel and Jacob Sadoff, Azad and Maya Dulat and CassidyHanck. His brother and business partner, David Handleman of Detroit survives him as well. May his memory be for a blessing. At the family's request, contributions may be made to American Red Magen David for Israel, 888 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York, 10106. Baruch Dayan Emet. Mark Lebow, President. ARMDI -American Red Magen David for Israel Stuart Jackson, Chairman International Committee of Magen David Adom Daniel R. Allen, Executive Vice President Benjamin Saxe, Executive Vice President Emeritus
      