
        ROBBINS--Joan. Of Manhattan, passed away suddenly after a courageous battle. Born in the Bronx, a graduate of Hunter College and a Registered Dietitian. Beloved wife of the late Bernard, and the greatly loved and cherished mother of Gerald and Eve. After the passing of Bernard, Joan became the President of Hertzberg-Robbins, a mannequin manufacturer. Joan later became the President of her own real estate company where she excelled in developing Manhattan real estate. A service will beheld at Frank E. Campbell, 81st and Madison Avenue, NY, Thursday at 11:30 A.M.
        ROBBINS -- Joan. Having fought a valiant battle, I have lost my beloved mother, Joan Robbins. Mom was my best friend, my confidant, my business partner, my travel companion and my shopping buddy. After my father's death, Mom dedicated her life to raising my brother and myself, making sure we graduated high school, college and graduate school. Mom always put our needs ahead of her own needs. There was nothing Mom would not do for us and she gave us everything. Mom was a selfless giver and she gave from her heart. Mom was our example of how a fine human being should live. Mom was an original thinker, dynamic, intellectual, insightful, courageous, adventurous, energetic, well rounded, fun, sweet, warm, caring, a scrappy fighter, a stoic survivor, a tireless worker, tenacious, a savvy business person, an excellent chef and a humanitarian with a sharp wit and a great sense of humor who was always young at heart. She was a world traveler with sophisticated tastes and had a great eye for design. Mom could discuss any subject and could make anyone feel at ease. Mom was a tried and true Manhattanite who loved NY. Her passing has created an unfillable void and we will miss her terribly forever. Our only hope is that Mom has been reunited with our late father in eternity. Thank you Mom for all you have done for us and all you have given to us. We will carry on your legacy. You will always be present in our hearts and we will love you forever. Eve
      