
        FISHER--Max M. The leadership, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities notes with deep sorrow the loss of Max M. Fisher, the quintessential Jewish leader and visionary. He died Thursday, March 3rd at 96. For nearly half a century, Fisher was among North America's leading industrialist and charitable givers, supporting Jewish and general causes worldwide. For decades he served as a trusted advisor to U.S. presidents and Israeli prime ministers. By quietly forging new ties between Washington and Jerusalem, Fisher pioneered a new era in American Jewish activism and politics. ''In the world of Jewish volunteer leaders, Max Fisher was a giant. He was known to all as a prime mover, as someone who made things happen,'' said Howard Rieger, president and chief executive officer of United Jewish Communities (UJC). Fisher served as the top leader of UJC's predecessor organizations: United Jewish Appeal, Council of Jewish Federations, and United Israel Appeal. He was also president of the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit. He was an honorary chair of UJC and founding chairman of the Board of Governors of UJC's overseas partner, the Jewish Agency for Israel. His daughter, Jane Sherman, serves as chairperson of the UIA and is co-chair of JAFI's Israel Committee. In recognition of his lifelong devotion, commitment and generosity to Jews everywhere, UJC and the Jewish Federations of North America named their New York headquarters in September, 2002 as the Max M. Fisher Headquarters of United Jewish Communities. ''May it stand as a memorial to him and his lifelong interest in UJC and the Jewish Federations of North America,'' Rieger said. To Max's wife, Marjorie Switow Fisher, his children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren, we extend our heartfelt condolences. May Max Fisher's name be a blessing and may his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Robert Goldberg, Chairman Morton B. Plant, Chairman of the Executive Committee Howard M. Rieger, President and CEO
        FISHER--Max M. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of our esteemed, long-time Board member, Mr. Max M. Fisher. His passionate love for Israel, his stalwart commitment to its welfare, and his dedication to Jewish needs in his home community of Detroit, throughout the U.S., and around the globe made him the quintessential Jewish leader of our era. A trusted advisor to U.S. Presidents and Israeli Prime Ministers, the pivotal role he played in post World War II Jewish history insures that his impact will be felt by many generations to come. Max Fisher symbolized all that is best in the North American Jewish community. ''I am what I am,'' he once said. ''Max Fisher. I hope it stands for something.'' On behalf of the hundreds of thousands of people in the JDC family and the world at large who have benefited from his visionary insights and his unstinting generosity, we can say with certainty that it does. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Marjorie, to his children, including our Board member, Jane Sherman, and to the entire Fisher family. May his memory be for a blessing. Judge Ellen M. Heller President Eugene J. Ribakoff Chairman of the Board Steven Schwager Executive Vice-President
        FISHER--Max. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the passing of Max Fisher, a towering figure in the global Jewish community. Max's lifetime of leadership was fueled by an intense spirit of klal Yisrael and enriched the lives of millions in the US, Israel, and around the world. His commitment to Jewish life and learning -exemplified by his role as founding chairman of the board of governors of the Jewish Agency for Israel -was an expression of his profound generosity and passion. That legacy of benevolence is carried on through the untiring efforts of his family whose ongoing support of various Jewish community concerns has strengthened our ability to serve those in need. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Fisher family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        FISHER--Max M. It is with profound sorrow that the American Jewish Committee mourns the death of Max M. Fisher, a devoted and active officer, cherished friend and generous supporter for more than 55 years. Max served AJC with distinction in the most prominent leadership positions. It was his stirring passion for America, the Jewish people and Israel that guided his civic involvement and philanthropy throughout his life. Max was truly a giant among men-a gracious and wise individual without peer. For decades, he played a unique role in American and world politics, utilizing his finely honed diplomatic and advocacy skills to the benefit of us all. He left a shining legacy of human kindness. Blessed with years, we still cannot help but feel that Max left us much too soon. We send our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Marjorie, his children, the rest of his grieving family and all who mourn this remarkable leader. E. Robert Goodkind, Pres. David A. Harris, Exec. Dir.
        FISHER--Max. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the loss of our esteemed mentor and friend, Max Fisher. Max was an extraordinary leader whose deep commitment to America, Israel and world Jewry were reflected in the many leadership positions he held and his remarkable contributions. The Conference of Presidents and the entire Jewish community benefitted greatly from his vision and generosity and will miss the ''Dean'' of Jewish leaders. We extend our sincerest condolences to his entire family.
      