
        O'CONNOR -- Marcella Ber nadette (Hogan). 85, died of pulmonary fibrosis at Winter Haven Hospital, Winter Haven, FL Tuesday, March 1, 2005. She was born to Martin and Marcella (Mullins) Hogan in NYC November 16, 1919 and graduated with the first class of Queens College of the City of New York. She married Robert Emmet O'Connor in Miami, FL on December 30, 1942. From 1954 until 1969 she resided in Greenwich, CT. During that time she was instrumental in establishing the Foundation School in Orange, CT in 1965 for children with special education needs. In the years that followed she served on the Boards of Trustees of the Pine Point School in Camden, ME and Riverview School in Sandwich, MA. In the 1960's she was president of the Catholic Women's Club of Greenwich and president of the Marian Book Club. In 1970 she moved to Amenia, NY where she was a communicant at St. Joseph's Church in Millbrook, NY and an instructor in the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. In more recent years she had been a member of Holy Spirit Church in Lake Wales, FL where she made her principal residence. She was an active and sustaining member of the Chesterton Society. She is survived by her loving husband of 62 years, Robert Emmet O'Connor; a daughter, Kathleen of Lakeland, FL; four sons, Robert, Jr. of Rhinebeck, NY, Dennis of Longmeadow, MA, Brian of Atlanta, GA, Christopher of Housatonic, MA; seven grandchildren, Thomas Tormey of Bronxville, NY, Sheila Tormey of London, England and Caitlin, Rory, Jane, Margery and Jack O'Connor of Longmeadow and Westfield, MA; and two great-grandchildren, William and Caroline Tormey of Bronxville, NY. Visiting hours will be from 2 to 4 p.m. and 7 to 9 p.m. on Monday, March 7 at the Allen Funeral Home, 3270 Franklin Avenue, Millbrook, NY. A Funeral Mass will be held 11 a.m. on Tuesday, March 8 at St. Joseph's Church in Millbrook, NY followed by burial in St. Joseph's Cemetery. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Pulmonary Fibrosis Foundation, 1440 West Washington Blvd., Chicago, IL 60607.
      