
        GENET--Leon M., of Short Hills, NJ, a commercial real estate broker who dedicated the majority of his life to supporting the arts, cancer research and a variety of Jewish concerns died February 27 in New York City of heart failure. He was 74 years old. The son of Russian immigrants, Mr. Genet graduated from Syracuse University in 1953 and served as an Army Lieutenant during the Korean War. Mr. Genet's philanthropic activities started in memory of his first wife, Sue Ann Mackta Genet, with the establishment of the Genet Gallery of Textile Arts at Slocum Hall at Syracuse University. Designed to provide students with a link to internationally prominent figures from retailing, fashion, costuming and the decorative arts. He created the Sue Ann Genet Lecture Series. He was a recipient of the Chancellor's Medal at Syracuse University and the Syracuse University Award for Outstanding Service. Mr. Genet's support for Jewish causes ranged from being an active leader for AIPAC to serving as Chairman of the Industry and Commerce Division of Israel Bonds. He was also on the Board of Directors of the Rabbinical College of America. More recently he and his wife, Eileen, established the Eileen Genet Ovarian Cancer Research Fund at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Hospital, New York City. The focus of the fund is on early detection. In addition to his wife Eileen, Mr. Genet is survived by a sister, Sarah Fisch of West Orange, NJ; a brother and sister-in-law, Gerald and Randy of Manhattan; three daughters, Pam Barsh of Somers, NY, Jill Waller of Manhattan and Wendy Kaplan of Millburn, NJ; two stepchildren, Pamela and Jonathan; and ten grandchildren, Sueann, Jack, Sidney, Charlie, Myles, Jordana, Randy, Zachary, Sophie and Caroline. Funeral services at Bernheim-ApterKreitzman Suburban Funeral Chapel, 68 Old Short Hills Road, Livingston, NJ on Wednesday, March 2 at 11:00AM. For more information please call 1-800-938-6372.
        GENET--Leon M. To Leon, my adoring and affectionate husband, you have been my devoted soulmate and my champion for eighteen years. Our time together has been wonderful. I cherished every single moment of it. I love you and will miss you dearly. You will remain in my hearts and thoughts forever. Eileen
        GENET--Leon M. We mourn the loss of our dearly loved, longtime friend. He was an uncle to our children, Mark, Meg & Irwin. His tremendous warmth and perpetual good humor will be sorely missed but remembered always. Our deepest condolences to his bereaved family. May beautiful memories comfort those who mourn his passing. Marian and Robert Baum
        GENET--Leon. We will sorely miss your passion for friends, family and food. Your fundraising for worthwhile causes has made the world a better place. Our sincerest condolences to your family and your beloved Eileen. Rosalind and Gene Glaser
        GENET--Leon. One of the best friends and human beings we have ever known. Our hearts are heavy. Our condolences go out to Eileen and the entire family. Dear Leon--beloved by all. Sandy and Danny Teitelbaum and Family
        GENET--Leon. A loving relationship of almost 10 years. We will treasure the times we shared with our children, grandchildren and each other. Love, Leslie and Jim
        GENET--Leon. A cherished man who defined friendship and family. For all of us who love and were loved by him. Jayne, Barry, Dan, Adrienne and Jeff Mackta
      