
        SAUERHAFT--Stan of Armonk, New York, a leading public relations expert on mergers and acquisitions and corporate communications counseling, died in his sleep on March 25 at age 78. His death followed a valiant struggle with Alzheimer's Disease as well as cancer. A graduate of the University of Michigan with a BA and MA in Creative Writing, he enjoyed a brilliant 50-year career in public relations. Hundreds of clients benefited from his expertise while serving as Executive Vice President and Director of Hill & Knowlton and, more recently, as Vice Chairman of the Board of Burson-Marsteller Worldwide. Mr. Sauerhaft was elected a Fellow of the Public Relations Society of America, the Society's highest recognition. He authored countless articles on public relations practice and principles, as well as the business books The Merger Game and Image Wars as well as the novels End Game and Dead Cat Bounce. He donated his time to valuable industry and civic organizations including the West Point military academy, the LS&A College of his beloved University of Michigan and the Institute for Public Relations Research and Education. He was a longtime member of The Union League Club in New York City, Burning Tree Country Club in Greenwich, Ct, the Authors' Guild Inc. and several industry associations. Mr. Sauerhaft served his country as a Staff Sergeant in the Army from 1944-1946. He was a gifted, avid, competitive sportsman: a nationally ranked senior platform tennis player, a golf partner one could count on to make a crucial putt, and a masterful pool player. Mr. Sauerhaft is survived by his wife of 53 years, Rosalie, their children Richard and his wife Doreen, Douglas and his wife Nancy, Robert and his wife Robin; his grandchildren Roger, Shelley and Lindsey Sauerhaft, and Sarah Jackson; and his faithful Labrador Retriever Caesar. His sons will forever remember his advice: ''If you can't outthink them, outwork them. But better yet, try to do both'' and ''the best luck seems to befall the hardest workers''. A Memorial Service will be held May 24 at 4 PM at The Union League Club in New York City.
      