
        SAWYER--Charles H. Died February 25, 2005 at age 98. Born Andover, MA October 20, 1906. Graduated Phillips Academy with AB from Yale in 1929. Began Harvard prelaw, also took Paul Sachs' museum class and was hired in 1930 as first curator of Addison Gallery of American Art, Phillips Academy. Married Katharine Clay in 1934. Became Director of Worcester Museum of Art in 1940. Joined OSS during WWII, documenting and repatriating works of art confiscated by the Nazis. Returned to Yale in 1947 where he took on a challenging position as Dean of the School of Architecture and Design and Director of the Division of the Arts. In 1957 he became Director of the University of Michigan Museum of Art in Ann Arbor. He created a landmark program to train museum administrators and many graduates have directed major museums. The revitalized program, named in his honor, will be housed in a new section of the Museum. Sawyer received honorary degrees from Amherst College, University of New Hampshire; and Clark University. He was on art advisory commissions for Harvard, Amherst, Smith, and Notre Dame; a trustee of the Corning Museum of Glass and the Smithsonian Art Commission with an honorary life-time appointment; a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences; and member of the Century Association. He was preceded in death in 1998 by his wife Katharine. He is survived by his niece, Elizabeth Sawyer Klaeson of Durham, NH, his nephew George F. Sawyer, Jr. also of Durham, and Katharine's nieces, Phebe (Andrew) Leighton of Cambridge, MA, Susan (Costan) Berard of Fripp Island, SC, and Paula (John) Bungen of San Rafael, CA, and by long-time personal business associate Susan Else Wyman of Ann Arbor. A funeral was held in Chelsea, MI on Tuesday, March 1st with interment of ashes to take place in Dover, NH. A memorial service will be held on Thursday, March 10th at 1pm at St. Andrew's Episcopal Church, Ann Arbor. A recognition of his life in the arts will be held at the University of Michigan Museum of Art in the spring. Memorial contributions may be made to the U-M Museum of Art, 525 S. State, Ann Arbor, MI 48109 and designated for the Charles H. Sawyer Center for Museum Studies.
      