
        KOCH--Elizabeth and Dr. Lynn H. The Horace Mann Community mourns with profound sorrow the tragic passing of Elizabeth Koch, class of 2005 and her beloved mother, Dr. Lynn H. Koch. Lizzie was an inspirational student leader, a gifted student and a treasured friend to all. An advocate for human rights causes, she was Chapter President of the Junior State of America; a compassionate pragmatist, she was a strong advocate of Horace Mann student charitable fundraising events; an articulate social critic, she made her life a quest to repair the world. She was a licensed EMT and volunteered many hours at the Englewood General Hospital. Her lively intelligence, her keen insights, her warm personality, her unforgettable smile and her boundless optimism will be greatly missed but not forgotten. ''The world has lost a ray of its own sunshine,'' commented her academic advisor. Her mother, Lynn Koch, in her passionate desire to contribute and to serve, embodied the best values of humanity and the HM community. She was our dearest friend, avid supporter and tireless worker. Devoted to and supportive of Horace Mann's vision and mission, she was an active leader in the Parents Association. Her culinary talents were legendary as was her generosity to the school. She left an indelible mark on all of us who worked alongside of her. We extend heartfelt condolences to Paul and L.J. Koch and grieve with them in their tragic loss. Dr. Eileen Mullady, Head of School Robert J. Katz '65, Chair, HM Board of Trustees The Horace Mann Parents Association
        KOCH--Elizabeth. In loving memory of our friend Lizzie whose spirit, energy, giggle, and love will be with us forever. We miss you with all our hearts and we'll meet you around the corner. Love, Alix, Laura, Danielle Marissa, Vicky, Beka, Rachel Lexie, Babette, Ashley Amy, Rayna, Sarah, Ali Perry, Lauren, Jane, Morgan and Sam
        KOCH--Lizzie. Temple Sinai of Bergen County deeply mourns the passing of our member, Lizzie Koch, daughter of Lynn and Paul, sister of L.J. Heartfelt condolences are extended to the family. Dr. Bruce S. Block, Rabbi George Bean, Stuart Himmelfarb, Presidents
        KOCH--Lynn Hurwitz. Temple Sinai of Bergen County deeply mourns the passing of our member, Lynn Hurwitz Koch, wife of Paul, mother of Lizzie and L.J. Heartfelt condolences are extended to the family. Dr. Bruce S. Block, Rabbi George Bean, Stuart Himmelfarb, Presidents
        KOCH--Lynn and Lizzie. To Paul and L.J. Our entire family mourns the tragic loss of your wife Lynn and daughter Lizzie. Words fail us to describe our sorrow over this horrific event. Our most sincere condolences to the entire Koch family. Stanley and Marcia, Linda, Ken, Sami, Amy and Eli
      