
        MAGER--Norman C. Born March 23, 1926. Died peacefully, with his children at his bedside on March 17, 2005. Devoted husband of Bernice, loving and adoring father of Stephanie, Scott and Bess, and father-in-law of Tammy and Bobby. Doting and proud grandfather of Justin, Nicole and David. He is survived by his brothers, Marvin and Lonny, and his sister, Shari, and each of their beautiful families. He leaves a legacy of deep love, unfailing wit, grace and generosity, and was an inspiration and joy to all who knew him. We cherished our time together and we will miss you every day and you will live on in our hearts forever. Funeral service will be Sunday, March 20, at 11 AM, at Boulevard-Riverside Chapels, 1450 Bway, Hewlett, New York; 516-295-3100, with interment to follow at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ; 201-262-1100.
        MAGER -- Norman. With great sadness and a deep sense of loss, Perfect Building Maintenance mourns the loss of former President, Norman Mager, a respected business leader and friend to many. Norman began working for his father, the founder of PBM in 1950. Through his leadership, PBM became one of the largest privately held janitorial companies in New York City. His grace, sense of humor and most of all, dedication to his children and grandchildren affected the many people who came into contact with him. Our sincerest condolences to his son, Scott Mager, the CEO of Perfect Building Maintenance, and daughters Stephanie and Bess, wife Bernice, and the extended family. Norman was a beacon to all and his light will shine through his children and their children. We will miss you, Norman. Your friends and admirers at PBM
        MAGER--Norman. Our sincerest condolences to Scott, Tammy, David and the entire family on the loss of their wonderful father, grandfather and husband. He will be sorely missed and always remembered with love in our hearts. Yianni, Stacey, Kristina and Brandon Skordas
        MAGER--Norm. You fought a valiant fight. We will miss your sweet smile and goodness. Rest in peace, you are in a better place. Our deepest sympathy to Bernice, Stefanie, Scott, Bess and your entire family. Diana Assael and Family
        MAGER--Norman. Who will we argue politics with? Who will send us such great e-mails? Who will be as good a friend and as great a guy? No one, Norm. You will be sorely missed. Cynthia and George Marks
      