
        SHARP--Bruce. Born August 9, 1941, Bruce Sharp was a man who was known for his big heart and dedication to family and friends as well as his pioneering entrepreneurship in the underground storage tank industry. A former Eagle Scout and Naval Reservist, Bruce Sharp started his own tank lining company in 1967 which specialized in lining underground storage tanks preventing leaks into the environment. By 1972, Bruce Sharp had developed his own tank lining material and process and began a national network of franchises that specialize in lining petroleum tanks. Bruce's revolutionary process became the industry leader by the early 1980's and shortly thereafter he began patenting ideas helping to improve underground storage tank designs. He then founded his National Leak Prevention Association, which became nationally recognized by the EPA, and by the 1990's Bruce successfully began licensing patents to various tank manufacturers on a national level. In addition to the over 100 patents and being recognized as a leader in the petroleum storage industry, Bruce Sharp held both commercial and instrument pilot licenses, was an avid scuba diver, enjoyed sailing, was a certified Dolphin Trainer, loved snow skiing and was a licensed and registered pyrotechnician. Bruce Sharp was best known as a man of true compassion by his close friends, neighbors and relatives. This was evident in Bruce's many acts of selflessness, loving heart, and his generosity to others in their time of need. Bruce R., beloved husband of Linda K. (nee Eck) for over 43 years, cherished father of Scott (Jan), Derick, Heather, Tobie, and Rebecca; dear brother of Brenda Klus, Elaine Bartlett, Lowell Sharp and Beth Hondorff. He is also survived by his grandchildren Victoria, Prairie, Jamie, and Jan-Michael. Bruce Sharp quietly passed on Tuesday, March 15th, 2005 amongst family and close friends. Friends may call on Saturday from 36PM and Sunday 3-6PM at the Jon Deitloff Funeral Centre, 4389 Spring Grove Avenue (45223). Funeral service will be at 6 PM on Sunday at the funeral home.
      