
        GUBELMANN--Barton Green. Died in Palm Beach on Saturday, February 26, 2005. Born on the memorable date of December 12, 1916, she becaue unforgettable to all who knew her. Raised as an only child in Jacksonville, Florida, she had a life-long love of the ocean. A passionate shell-collector, she was a well-known competitor on the high seas. Barton held the world record for a 50 pound Dolphin caught on 20 lb test line in 1960, and was a founding member of the International Women's Fishing Association. She enjoyed competitive sailing with her husband. Walter S. Gubelmann, whom she married in 1941. Together, they successfully campaigned their yacht Windigo, as well as successfully defending the America's Cup in 1964 with Constellation. Mrs. Gubelmann was educated in Art at the Ringling School in Sarasota, FL, as well as the Traphagen School in New York City. Her sure eye resulted in more awards in Flower Shows, Croquet Tournaments (she is an inductee in the Croquet Hall of Fame) and Skeet Shooting. But it was her tremendous sense of humor, love of her fellow man, and her unending generosity that made her the true champion she was. Whether in Long Island, Palm Beach or Newport, she was at home, entertaining her many friends, often with parties that are still remembered today. Besides being the consummate hostess, she was a member of the Colonial Dames, the Mayflower Society, The New York Yacht Club, the Garden Club of Palm Beach, The Bath and Tennis Club, The Everglades Club, and the Spouting Beach Rock Association. Barton was beloved by all who knew her, especially her family. She is survived by her sons, William & James, their wives, Shelley and Kate, five grandchildren, Marjorie G, Raein, Wyeth S. Gubelmann, Tantivy G. Bostwick, Phoebe G. Gubelmann, James G. Gubelmann, and one great-grandchild, Cyrus P. Raein. The funeral will be held on Friday, March 4, 2005, at 11:00 AM, at The Episcopal Church of Bethesda-By-TheSea. In lieu of flowers, please make donations in memory of Barton G. Gubelmann to the Society of the Four Arts for the Garden Restoration Project.
      