
        LOWELL--Stanley H., on March 16, beloved husband of Lee, cherished father of Jeff and wife Eleanor, Darcy and husband Jay, Lauri and husband Isaiah, adored stepfather of Barry and wife Jennifer Schaevitz, and Scott and wife Sue Schaevitz. He is also survived by eight grandsons. Stanley H. Lowell had a long and distinguished career as an attorney, in public service and as an advocate and champion for human rights. He was Deputy Mayor of New York City, served as the first Chairman of the Commission on Human Rights in NYC, and marched with the Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. He was a US delegate to the Madrid Conference on Human Rights. He played a continuous leadership role at City College, his alma mater, and was an outspoken proponent of free tuition for students from families with no prior college experience. He received the distinguished Finley Medal from City College for outstanding contributions to the City of New York and was instrumental in the development of Shakespeare in the Park, serving as its President. He worked for decades on behalf of Jews in America, Israel and the former Soviet Union, serving as Chairman of the National Conference on Soviet Jewry. He was a Board member of the UJAFederation for forty years, and received the prestigious Proskauer Award. He was also President of the Citizen's Committee for Children of New York. We honor his unfailing integrity, generosity and sense of justice and fairness. Contributions can be sent to UJA-Federation of NY. Services Thursday, March 17, 11:30AM, at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st St. and Amsterdam Avenue.
        LOWELL--Stanley. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stanley Lowell, whose vision and impact helped strengthen the Jewish community in New York and around the world. Stanley's civic and Jewish conscience will be sorely missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Lee, a treasured former colleague; to his daughter, Lauri Jan Lowell Cooper; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
      