
        SHUDOFSKY--Dr. Noam. It is with a heavy heart and enormous sadness that the Board of Directors, Staff and Students of the Columbia/Barnard Hillel announce the passing of Dr. Noam Shudofsky, beloved father of our dear colleague, friend and mentor, Leora Shudofsky. Dr. Shudofsky passed away peacefully during the morning of March 2, 2005. In his forty years as an educator, Dr. Shudofsky served as Administrator of the Ramaz Day School where he shaped and guided the lives of many young Jewish minds and managed the day-to-day operations of the school. His career at Ramaz helped to make it the world-renowned institution that it is today. He was in its truest, fullest definition, a community builder and dedicated servant of the Jewish people. Our hearts and thoughts go out to his wife, children and grandchildren at this most difficult time.
        SHUDOFSKY--Dr. Noam. The Zamir Choral Foundation mourns the passing of our beloved board member, Dr. Noam Shudofsky. His unparalleled passion & commitment to Zionism and the state of Israel; his dedication to the power and promise of Jewish education; and his devotion to the cause of music and the arts are measures of an extraordinary life and accomplishment. His guidance, wisdom and leadership are irreplaceable--and even more his friendship. Our love and hearts go out to Nechi, Binny, Rachel and Leora in this difficult time. His memory will truly be a blessing to us all. Matthew Lazar Founder and Director Alan Septimus, President
        SHUDOFSKY--Noam. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Salute to Israel Parade deeply mourn the untimely passing of our esteemed and beloved Vice President and friend, Noam Shudofsky. Noam was an outstanding leader and mentor, whose tireless effort and commitment to Israel and the Parade will forever continue to inspire us. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Nechi and his entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Judy Kaufthal, President Uri Kaufthal, Treasurer Ruth Popkin, Secretary Ruth Kastner, Exec Director
        SHUDOFSKY--Noam. The loss of our beloved co-parent, Noam, is irreparable. For 26 years we have enjoyed a super special relationship. He was the rock of our families. We shall miss his spirit, his wisdom, his love forever. Debby and Melvin Neumark
      