
        CHEEL--Helen Snell, passed away on March 18, 2005, at her home in Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, at age 100, after a short illness. Mrs. Cheel was born on May 10, 1904 in Potsdam, NY. She was the daughter of Sara Merrick Snell and The Honorable Bertrand H. Snell, Minority Leader of the House of Representatives from 1931-1939 and Congressman for 24 years from the 31st District of New York. Mrs. Cheel was a remarkable, independent woman. Her friendships, keen intellect, sense of humor, infectious laugh, unwaving generosity and ability to live in the present served her well for 100 years. She graduated from the Emma Willard School in Troy, NY and the Crane School of Music in Potsdam, and she earned a B.S. in Music Education from Teachers College of Columbia University in 1928. That same year she married Harold W. Cheel, an engineer, successful architect and developer of Cheelcroft in HoHo-Kus, NJ. They had two children, Bertrand Snell Cheel, who died in 1985, and Barbara Anne Cheel, who died in her childhood. Helen was predeceased by a sister, Sara Snell Petersen. She is survived by a nephew, Hollis, a niece, Sara, a grandniece, Elizabeth, and grandnephew, Christopher. Mrs. Cheel was recognized on many occasions for her lifelong philanthropic endeavors and her community service for more than 75 years. She was a lifelong benefactor of Clarkson University and the major contributor to the Cheel Campus Center, Cheel Arena and the Bertrand H. Snell Hall. She was also a lifelong benefactor of Emma Willard School, where she contributed to the Snell Music Center and the Helen S. Cheel Aquatics Center. On the local level, Helen and Harold Cheel were major patrons of The Valley Hospital, where the Cheel Orthopedic Unit was dedicated in 1987 and the Harold W. and Helen S. Cheel Wing was dedicated in 1992 in their honor. Mrs. Cheel was also active in leadership roles in The Valley Hospital Auxiliary, Ridgewood Woman's Club, YWCA of Ridgewood, American Cancer Society, Community Meals, Hospital Auxiliary of Naples, Florida and the New Jersey Federation of Woman's Clubs. Mrs. Cheel was a member of the Ridgewood Country Club. Services will be private.
      