
        PILLSBURY--John Sargent, Jr., age 92, of Wayzata, MN, died on March 28, 2005. He was a graduate of St. Paul's School in Concord, NH, Yale College and the University of Minnesota Law School, where he was Editor-in-Chief of the Law Review. Following his military service as a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy during World War II, he practiced law as a partner of Faegre & Benson in Minneapolis until 1956. From 1956 until his retirement in 1977, he was the Chief Executive Officer of Northwestern National Life Insurance Company (now ING-ReliaStar). He was very active nationally in life insurance industry affairs, serving as Chairman of the two principal industry organizations, the Institute of Life Insurance Association of America (now combined as the American Council of Life Insurers). He also served as a director of The Pillsbury Company, Northwestern National Bank, Boise Cascade Corporation and Northwestern Bell Telephone Company. Very active in community and civic affairs, he was a Founding Director of Twin Cities Public Television, Chairman of the Board of the Minnesota Orchestra and Chairman of the Community Chest Drive (the predecessor of the United Way). He was also very involved in Yale University alumni affairs. Always cheerful and welcoming, good-humored and appreciative, he thrived on the company of his family and friends, and they in turn admired and respected him and returned the great affection he showed for them. He is survived by his wife of 68 years, Katharine Clark Pillsbury, his sons, John S. Pillsbury, III of Telluride, CO, Donaldson C. Pillsbury of New York City and Dr. L. Harrison Pillsbury of Washington, DC; his daughter, Katharine P. Jose, of Chestnut Hill, MA; his sister Ella P. Crosby of Wayzata, MN; his brother, George S. Pillsbury, of Wayzata, MN; 14 grandchildren; and 8 great-grandchildren. A service celebrating his life will be held at the Wayzata Community Church on April 19, 2005 at 3:00PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in his memory to Minnesota Orchestra or Twin Cities Public Television.
      