
        ROBERTS--Sidney I., died peacefully, February 26, 2005. Born in Brooklyn, NY in 1913, Sidney was an international tax lawyer and co-founder of the law firm Roberts and Holland. He is survived by his wife Arlene, his son Russell, a sister Florence SchulmanRoth, nephew Steven Schulman, wife Rollind Schulman, his brother and sister-in-law Steven and Arlis Aron and nieces and nephew, Jessica and Tracey Schulman, Alivia and Adam Aron. Sidney had a fine intellect and was internationally respected for his contributions to tax law. He was an emotional and intellectual mentor to many. A wonderful husband and a devoted father, his family and friends deeply loved him. We will miss him. Funeral services will be held privately. A shiva service will take place Wednesday, March 2, 7:30 PM, at Park Slope Jewish Center, 8th Avenue and 14th St, Brooklyn, NY. Memorial services in celebration of his life will be held March 14th at 11:00 AM at the New York Historical Society, 170 Central Park West, reception following the services. The family will be receiving friends on Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings from 7-9 PM, March 4, 5, and 6. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Current Scholarship Fund, Harvard Law School Alumni Center, 125 Mt. Auburn St., Cambridge, MA 02138.
        ROBERTS--Sidney I. A brilliant tax attorney, whose insights and intellect made him one of the pillars of the New York tax bar and earned him respect throughout the world. He was a founder of our firm, and our guiding light, enriching our lives with his warmth, wit and unwavering decency. An editor of the Harvard Law Review, Sidney taught at the Columbia Law School, served as president of the U.S. branch of the International Fiscal Association, and was a prolific writer of leading tax treatises and articles, including the seminal treatise on the U.S. taxation of foreign persons. We will sorely miss our mentor and beloved friend. We extend our sincerest condolences to Arlene and Russell. Roberts & Holland LLP
      