
        PASTERNAK -- Sandi. We deeply mourn the loss of our courageous friend, Sandi. Her spirit, inner strength, love and genuine loyalty to friends and family will always be remembered. Our deepest condolences to all who loved her. We will miss you, Sandi. Linda Willis and Jenny Carter
        PASTERNAK--Sandra. Committed to the development of the whole child, Sandra Pasternak was an inspirational leader at The Gateway School and beloved by our community. Her career was distinguished by many accomplishments, including the development and supervision of the school's Transition Program for pre-adolescents. Perhaps, her most significant contributions were the support and guidance she gave to students struggling to learn while coping with their learning disabilities, and to parents seeking to understand the problems confronting their children. Our students, staff, parents and trustees will always remember Sandi's quiet manner, keen insight, unrelenting focus on the needs of the child, and her very wry sense of humor. Her legacy at Gateway will be the moral quality of her teaching; her particular combination of respect for the student with respect for what is taught and its connection to the past, present and future life of the student. It is with great sadness that the Board of Trustees extends its deepest sympathies to Gavril, Katie, David and Anna, and to the family and friends of Sandra Pasternek. Carolyn Salzman, Chair and The Board of Trustees of The Gateway School
        PASTERNAK--Sandra. The Gateway School mourns the March 10th passing of our beloved Sandra Pasternak. Sandi joined the School in 1995 as a Transition Teacher, became the Coordinator of The Transition Program, and was appointed the Assistant Director of the School. Sandi received her B.A. from Goucher College in Early Childhood Special Education, her M.A. from George Washington University with graduate studies at Johns Hopkins University. The breadth of her experience through her work in the independent school community was of enormous benefit to Gateway and its students. Sandi also maintained a private consulting and tutoring practice in Manhattan for elementary school aged children with learning disabilities. Sandi's inspired leadership at Gateway, her strength of character, and her wise and compassionate guidance have made a significant positive difference for countless numbers of children and their families. The entire Gateway community sends its deepest condolences to her family. Robert B. Cunningham Director The Staff The Parents Association The Gateway School
      