
        EMMER -- Martin. Died March 13, 2005 in Seattle, Washington at the age of 86. He is survived by his loving wife, Ruth, son Fred, daughter, Hilary, grandson, Josh Gray-Emmer, granddaughters, Tamar Dunn & Natasha Dunn, and sisters, Ethel Jones & Florence Schachter. ''Marty'' was born, raised, and spent most of his life in Brooklyn, New York. He was in the Army for five years where he served in the Pacific. He made friendships during those years that lasted a lifetime. He continued to write to and visit his army buddies and attend reunions of his battalion. Marty and Ruth were married in 1946. They worked hard but also knew how to have a good time by driving around the United States, signing up for elderhostel classes and trips and taking cruises that ranged from cargo ships to South America to luxurious cruise ships to the Caribbean and Alaska. Marty worked for the same company for 40 years selling commercial thermometers and gauges throughout the City of New York and New Jersey. He was active in B'nai Brith and served as President of the Marine Park Lodge, as well as its Treasurer for many years. Marty was an avid bowler who won many individual and team trophies while serving as the Marine Park League's Treasurer for over 20 years. He also played in a weekly poker game. Marty was loved and respected by everyone who knew him. Wherever he was, friends and relatives knew that he could be counted on. He loved New York City and knew every street and its history. Many friends and relatives who came in from out of town were fascinated by his tours of Manhattan. Ruth and Marty loved the theater and spent many wonderful summer afternoons taking their children to Broadway and off-Broadway shows which were always followed by dinner at a different restaurant. They also enjoyed the opera. After leaving his long time employment, he started his own business which he sold 10 years later when he and Ruth retired to the Clearbrook community in Cranbury, New Jersey where they made many new friends. When their health started to fail, they moved to Seattle, Washington so that they could be closer to their daughter, Hilary who lives on Vashon Island, a short ferry ride away. Services will be at New Montefiore Cemetery, Farmingdale, New York on Friday, March 18 at 10:45 A.M. under the direction of Mount Sinai Memorial Chapels (www.msmc.us), East Brunswick, NJ.
      