
        FISHER--Max M. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Max M. Fisher of Detroit, a towering American Jewish leader, an internationally respected businessman, sought-after political advisor to American and Israeli statesmen and unstinting philanthropist. The ATS is proud to be numbered among the numerous civic, political, educational and artistic causes to which Mr. Fisher lent his support. A life trustee of the ATS Board of Regents, Mr. Fisher was awarded a Technion honorary doctorate for his distinguished service to the Technion, the state of Israel and the Jewish people, along with former ambassador Walter H. Annenberg, at a gala celebrating the organization's 50th anniversary in New York City in 1991. We extend our sincere condolences to Mr. Fisher's wife Marjorie, children Jane Fisher Sherman; Mary Fisher; Philip William Fisher; Julie Fisher Cummings & Marjorie Fisher Aronow, and the entire Fisher Family. American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Stephen A. Laser, President Evelyn Berger, Chairman Melvyn H. Bloom, Executive Vice President Scott Leemaster, Detroit Chapter President Richard Blumenstein, Detroit Chapter Chair Nancy Gad-Harf, East Central Region Director Jo Strausz Rosen, East Central Region Asst. Dir.
        FISHER--Max M. The Washington Institute for Near East Policy mourns the passing of Max M. Fisher. One of the earliest, loyal and most stalwart Trustees, Max Fisher understood the vital role America needs to play in the pursuit of a secure Arab-Israeli Peace and the critical importance of the US-Israel partnership in that effort. As benefactor, advisor and source of wise counsel, Max's wisdom, insight, experience and boundless energy were a source of strength to all Americans committed to security and peace in the Middle East. We extend our deepest condolences to his entire family. Michael Stein, Chairman Fred S. Lafer, President Barbi Weinberg Founding President Robert Satloff Executive Director Dennis Ross Counselor & Ziegler Distinguished Fellow
        FISHER--Max M. The American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem are profoundly saddened by the passing of Max M. Fisher an AFHU Guardian and recipient of an honorary doctorate from the Hebrew University. Max, who was devoted to Israel and the Jewish people provided scholarship and academic resources to Israel's future leaders ensuring the nation's well being. He was a humanitarian of the highest order. We extend our sympathy to his wife Marjorie, to his children and the entire family. AFHU Ira Lee Sorkin, President Keith L. Sachs, Chair Peter T. Willner, Exec. VP The Hebrew University Prof. Menachem Magidor, President
        FISHER--Max. The Board of Directors of Sotheby's Holdings, Inc. and Sotheby's worldwide employees mourn the loss of our Vice-Chairman, Max Fisher. For over 20 years, Sotheby's has benefited immeasurably from his great wisdom, insights, knowledge, experience, support and appreciation of our people. He was totally devoted to our company and it is impossible to adequately acknowledge his many contributions to Sotheby's and to our employees. We will all greatly miss his counsel and his commitment, and we extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Marjorie, and to his family. Michael Sovern, Chairman Sotheby's Holdings, Inc. Bill Ruprecht, Presdient and Chief Executive Officer
        FISHER--Max M. The AntiDefamation League mourns the pasing of Max M. Fisher, whose contributions to America, to Jewish people and the State of Israel are the legacy of his 96 years. He was a man of dedication and vision, who belived in the strength of America's democracy and cared for the welfare of Jews everywhere. Max was a supporter of ADL's agenda of fighting anti - semitism, protecting America's democratic institutions and forging a strong US-Israel relationship. We extend our condolences to the entire family. Barbara B. Balser, National Chair Abraham H. Foxman, National Director
        FISHER--Max M. The Palm Beach Country Club records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member and former board member, Max M. Fisher. Max was a towering figure in our community, a leader in philanthropy and public service in our community and nationally. He is irreplaceable. We extend our deepest sympathy to Marjorie and to other members of their family. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary
        FISHER--Max. The Board of Directors of HIAS, Inc., the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, mourn the passing of Max Fisher, an Honorary Member of the Board for many years. He was a major force in the Jewish community in the US and Israel and he will be sorely missed.
      