
        GALASSO--Ralph J. March 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Jane. Cherished father of Alexandra and Christopher. Brother of Patricia Agrisano. Memorial service Thursday, 1:30PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St. Donations to the Brain Tumor Center at Duke, Box 3624, Durham, NC, 27710.
        GALASSO--Ralph J. The partners, associates and staff of Pavia & Harcourt LLP mourn the untimely loss of our dear friend and colleague, Ralph J. Galasso. Ralph was the head of our real estate practice group and a trusted advisor and counselor, in the fullest sense of those words, to innumerable friends and clients. Ralph enriched our lives with his charm, wit, enthusiasm and decency. He made us look forward to coming to work each day and always challenged us to be better lawyers and better people. His thoughtfulness and care of those in need of help was legendary. Ralph's courage and grace at all times--especially this past year--have been an inspiration and a lesson for us all. Our thoughts and deepest sympathies are with his wife, Jane, and his children, Ali and Chris. He will be deeply mourned and greatly missed.
        GALASSO--Ralph J. The staff of J. McLaughlin mourns the loss of a dear friend. Since the company's inception 27 years ago, we have relied upon his incomparable wisdom, courage and humor in all critical business decisions. We are better people--and a better company--for having known him. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Jane, Ali and Chris. J. McLaughlin, Inc., Jay & Kevin McLaughlin and Steven Siegler.
        GALASSO--Ralph J. We mourn the loss of our dear friend. For 30 years he was our mentor, advisor and counselor. His extraordinary sense of humor, endless generosity, infinite kindness and incredible bravery will continue to inspire us. Our families join us in extending our deepest sympathy to Jane, Ali and Chris. Jay and Kevin McLaughlin
        GALASSO--Ralph. Our deepest sympathy and love is extended to our esteemed colleague, Dr. Jane Galasso and her children, Ali and Chris, on their profound and tragic loss. May his love for them provide comfort and peace always. Lissa Hirsch, M.D. Shereen Russell, M.D. and Staff
        GALASSO--Ralph. A Renaissance man, filled with exceptional ability and tenderness. May his love for Jane, Ali and Chris take them from strength to strength. Dr. Jeri Kronen
      