
        GUTTAG--Irwin ''Gus'', 89, of Delray Beach, FL, and NYC, passed away on Saturday, Februry 26, 2005. Formerly a member of the Board of Directors of the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board of Options, at the time of his death Mr. Guttag was a partner of Mentor Partners. He was also a longtime Trustee of Syracuse University. He is survived by his loving wife of 57 years, Marjorie Vogel Guttag, his daughter Addie of NYC, his son John and daughter-in-law Olga of Lexington, MA, and his grandchildren David, Andrea, Michael and Mark. A memorial service will be held at 6 PM, on Wednesday, March 2, at the Campbell Funeral Home in NYC. Friends are inviting to visit with the family at 575 Park Ave, Tuesday and Thursday, from 2-4 pm, and 6-8 pm. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to the Irwin and Marjorie Guttag Endowed Fund at Syracuse University.
        GUTTAG--Irwin. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Irwin Guttag, a cherished leader whose enthusiastic lifelong involvement in our Wall Street Division set an example of philanthropic leadership in the New York Jewish community. That profound legacy is carried on through the dedication and support of his beloved wife Marjorie, and his beloved daughter, Addie. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family: Marjorie; Addie; John; his daughter-in-law, Olga; his grandchildren David, Andrea, Michael, and Mark, and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        GUTTAG--Irwin. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of Irwin Guttag, adored father of longstanding Board member, Addie Guttag. Our hearts and prayers are with her and her family. As his life was a blessing, so may his memory be as well. Michael Goldstein, President Matthew Bronfman, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        GUTTAG--Irwin. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member Irwin Guttag and extend sincere condolences to his family. Charles J. Block, President
        GUTTAG--Irwin. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our lifelong friend who was close to three generations of our family. Our condolences to Marjorie, Addie, John and their entire family. The Winter Family
      