
        GRUNWALD--Henry A. Services Tuesday, March 1st, 10 am, at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65th Street. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to the International Rescue Committee, 122 E. 42 St, NY, NY 10168; or the Lighthouse International, 111 E. 59 St, NY, NY 10022.
        GRUNWALD -- Henry. The Trustees and Staff of The New York Public Library deeply mourn the loss of Henry Grunwald, their good friend and the beloved spouse of Trustee Louise Grunwald. Editor, author, and diplomat, Mr. Grunwald's distinguished career always gave primacy of place to the written word. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, children, and grandchildren. Brooke Russell Astor, Honorary Chairman Catherine C. Marron, Chairman Samuel C. Butler, Chairman Emeritus Elizabeth Rohatyn, Chairman Emeritus Marshall Rose, Chairman Emeritus Paul LeClerc, President
        GRUNWALD--Henry A. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Henry A. Grunwald, a Member of the Association since 1982. He had a deep appreciation for opera and its cultural importance, and our company was stronger for his involvement. He and his wife, Louise, have been generous and loyal friends to The Met. They attended the opera frequently for many years, and their presence added greatly to numerous special occasions. We will miss him, and we extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, and to his children: Mandy, Lisa, Peter and his stepson Bob Savitt. Christine F. Hunter Chairman of the Board William C. Morris, President Joseph Volpe, General Mgr
        GRUNWALD--Henry. The Board of Directors, Overseers and staff of the International Rescue Committee are saddened by the death of Henry Grunwald, a valued member of our board since 1997. Mr. Grunwald, who was himself a refugee from Nazi-controlled Austria during W.W. II, made significant contributions to the cause of refugees and the work of the IRC. We will miss him deeply. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Louise, and their family. Tom Brokaw & Winston Lord, Co-Chairmen, IRC Overseers Alan Batkin & Jonathan Wiesner, Co-Chairmen of the Board George Rupp, President
        GRUNWALD -- Henry A. Lighthouse International mourns the loss and celebrates the life of our esteemed and devoted Board member and generous supporter. He was a valued spokesman for people with vision loss. His legacy as an advocate lives on in the Lighthouse's annual Public Service Award, named in his honor. On behalf of the Lighthouse Board of Directors, our staff and our consumers, we offer deepest sympathy to his wife Louise, his children, and his grandchildren. Barbara Silverstone President and CEO William B. Follett, Chairman Lighthouse International
        GRUNWALD--Henry A. The board and staff of The Metropolitan Opera Guild are saddened by the death of Henry Grunwald, an esteemed member of our board since 1981. Henry's deep love of opera and rich knowledge of publications were invaluable to the Guild and to our magazine, ''Opera News,'' and we are fortunate to have been the recipients of his wisdom, kindness and good humor. Our deepst sympathies go to his wife Louise, and his children Mandy, Lisa, Peter and Bob. Winthrop Rutherfurd, Jr. Chairman Susan S. Braddock, President David A. Dik, Managing Dir.
        GRUNWALD--Henry A. The trustees and staff of the WORLD MONUMENTS FUND deeply regret the passing of Henry A. Grunwald, husband of former WMF board member, Louise Grunwald. Henry Grunwald was a leader in American journalism and an inestimable champion of international culture. He will be profoundly missed and we extend our heartfelt condolences to his family.
        GRUNWALD -- Henry A. Marks Paneth & Shron LLP mourns the passing of a great man and inspiration, Henry A. Grunwald. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Louise and to the entire Grunwald family. Peter E. Buell, Partner
      