
        PETREK -- Jeanne. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourn the tragic death of Jeanne A. Petrek. Dr. Petrek, a breast surgeon at Memorial Sloan-Kettering, was Director of the Surgical Program at the Evelyn H. Lauder Breast Center. Dr. Petrek first came to MSKCC as a surgical oncology fellow in 1978 and joined the medical staff in 1984, after a brief time at Emory University School of Medicine. Dr. Petrek was widely known for the care she provided to breast cancer patients, with particular focus on young women with the disease. Devoting her research efforts to the study of patient quality of life issues, she became an extraordinary advocate on their behalf. The leading expert in the United States on both lymphedema and pregnancy - associated breast cancer, recognized nationally for her skills as a physician and a researcher, Jeanne Petrek was a valued and respected friend and colleague who was beloved by her many patients. She played a major role in many aspects of our organization as clinician, scientist, institutional leader, and mentor during her 23 years with the Center. Her warmth, enthusiasm, expertise, and tireless dedication to the improvement of treatment for breast cancer will be profoundly missed. We extend our sincere condolences to her husband, children, and the rest of her family. Douglas A. Warner III, Chairman Boards of Overseers and Managers Richard I. Beattie, Vice Chairman Harold Varmus, President John R. Gunn, Executive Vice President Robert E. Wittes, Physician-in-Chief Memorial Hospital
        PETREK--Jeanne. The staff of the Evelyn H. Lauder Breast Center and the members of the Breast Diseases Management Team at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourn with the deepest sadness the sudden, tragic loss of our beloved colleague and friend Jeanne A. Petrek. Her presence in our lives was, and remains, a constant reminder of the highest aspirations of medicine, a calling to restore and preserve health in spirit as well as body. She was not only a superb surgeon who helped refine the current management of breast disease, but she was a tireless advocate for the quality of life of breast cancer patients, a leading researcher in topics such as lymphedema after breast surgery, pregnancy-associated breast cancer, and the preservation of fertility after treatment. Despite her international renown, she made every patient feel that she was the most important person in the world to her. She was not only a trusted colleague and valuable scientific collaborator, but a warm, cheerful, encouraging influence in our lives. We, and the thousands of patients whom she helped in her career, miss her and honor her. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her devoted family. Patrick Borgen, MD, Clifford Hudis, MD, Larry Norton, MD
        PETREK--Jeanne, M.D. The New York Metropolitan Breast Cancer Group, Inc., mourns the sudden and tragic loss of our long-time member, friend, colleague and teacher, Jeanne A. Petrek. Throughout her too short career she inspired us with fresh insights into the management of breast cancer and its after affects and was a cheerful and tireless advocate for patients and for the highest possible quality of care for all. Her research changed our view of this disease and held the promise of more discoveries yet to come. We will miss her always, and extend our deepest sympathies to her family. The Members and Officers of The New York Metroplitan Breast Cancer Group, Inc. Murray Seltzer, M.D., Pres. Clifford Hudis, M.D., V.P.
      