
        WEBER--Damon Daniel. 16, died on March 30, 2005, from a post-transplant infection he fought like the lion he was. He had greater strength, courage and dignity than any man. Damon was born in Brooklyn on August 8, 1988 and lived a full, active and creative life despite severe congenital heart disease. He was fearless and determined and full of love and never felt sorry for himself. He had many passions, but acting was his first love. He made his television debut on the hit HBO series Deadwood 10 days before he died. Previously he appeared on stage in The Great Kapock Tree, Mary Poppins, The Sound of Music, The King and I, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, Guys and Dolls, Frog Prince and Cindafella. He also performed at the Provincetown Playhouse in Cymbeline, Pericles and Romeo and Juliet. At Brooklyn Technical High School, Damon appeared in The Importance of Being Ernest, Picasso at the Lapin Agile and Tommy. As vice president of the drama club he made a brilliant directorial debut with The Man Who Came to Dinner. A gifted student and avid reader, Damon attended the Rockefeller Children's School, P.S. 29 where he graduated with highest honors and the Salk School of Science where he won the Literature prize, the Science Prize and the prize for Outstanding Student. He wrote beautifully (though his spelling needed work). He planned to graduate Brooklyn Tech next year and go on to a career in acting and international relations. A born diplomat, Damon attended special events at the Council of Foreign Relations and hoped to intern there. Damon was a natural leader and explorer and enjoyed summers in the Adirondacks, Truro, Martha's Vineyard and family homes in the Catskills and the Isle of Skye. He led his younger siblings, Sam and Miranda, on many exiting adventures. He also read out loud to them for hours, made up his own spellbinding strories and created magical home theatricals and puppet shows. He liked sailing, kayaking and horseback riding. Perhaps Damon's greatest gift was for friendship. He had many close, dear friends and tended each one with love and care. He kept his friends, who ranged in age from the very young to the old. He had deep wells of empathy and kindness and sensitivity, even for strangers. He also possessed insight and wisdom beyond his years. He was gregarious and hosted many large parties and sleepovers at his house, where everyone was always welcome. And he could be wickedly funny, with impeccable mimicry and timing. Damon had striking red hair, blue eyes and pale skin. He was beautiful, iside and out. He had a powerful moral force, purity of character and integrity rare in this world. He will be mourned every moment of every day by his heartbroken father, Doron Weber, who tried desperately to save his adored, firstborn son and flesh of his flexh, and by his grieving mother, Shealagh Weber, who poured all her brave love and generous spirit into this amazing child. His brother Sam and his sister Miranda will never forget their extraordinary sibling. His grandparents Robert and Helga Weber cared for Damon with all their hearts. He was loved by many aunts, uncles, cousins, grandmother, and friends. Funeral services on Monday, April 4, at Temple Beth Emeth in Brooklyn and burial at The Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx. In lieu of flowers donations can be sent to The Damon Weber Prize for Acting and Directing at Brooklyn Tech, c/o Temple Beth Emeth, 83 Marlborough Road, Brooklyn, NY 11226.
      