
        SHEPARD--Edward Morse, M.D. of Oyster Bay, NY, beloved husband for 25 years of Joan Pulling Shepard, died Sunday, April 3rd at the age of 90. He is survived by his loving children, Reese Alsop Shepard, Paul Cooper Shepard, Wendy Shepard Chisholm, Edward Morse Shepard III and Elizabeth Shepard Corley, as well as stepsons William A. Flanigan, Edward P. Flanigan, Russell L. Flanigan, nine grandchildren, four stepgrandchildren and one greatgrandson. He was predeceased by his sister Lee Shepard Judge and daughter Jean Adams Shepard. Born in Brooklyn in 1915, Dr. Shepard was raised in Lake George, NY. After living in Paris for three years as a child, he graduated from Deerfield Academy in 1932, Williams College Phi Beta Kappa in 1936, and Cornell Medical School in 1940. During World War II, he was a Naval Flight Surgeon serving on a destroyer in the North Atlantic. After serving on the faculty of Cornell Medical School and practicing internal medicine in New York City for over 20 years, Dr. Shepard moved to Woodstock, VT in 1969. Until his retirement in 1985, he practiced internal medicine in Woodstock and served on the faculty of Dartmouth Medical School. He was also a Fellow of the American College of Physicians and the New York Academy of Medicine. Dr. Shepard was an athlete and a great lover of the outdoors. He was a member of Piping Rock. An avid skier who began skiing before one could ride up the mountain on a lift, he skied every winter for 85 years with only one exception--the year he was on a ship in the North Atlantic. Tennis, hiking and golf were other favorite sports. His deep curiosity in the world showed in his passion for travelling and reading. He had a broad range of interests and continously contributed significant time and resources to civic and non-profit organizations dedicated to supporting social causes and the environment. He was on the Board of Directors for Planned Parenthood of Northern New England for many years. He was an inspiration to all who knew him. A memorial service will be held at St. John's Church in Cold Spring Harbor, NY on Saturday April 9th, at 11.30 A.M. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to Hudson-Peconic Planned Parenthood, 70 Maple Avenue, Smithtown, New York 11787.
      