
        LEVIN--Wilbur A., 84, died at home on April 12, 2005. He was County Clerk and Clerk of the Supreme Court and Commissioner of Jurors, Kings County, and former President, CEO and Chairman of Independence Savings Bank, and President of Martin's Department Store. Bill was a long-time board member of many institutions, including Brooklyn Law School, Helen Keller Services for the Blind, Brooklyn Botanic Garden, Brooklyn Hospital Center, Prospect Park Alliance and the New York Organ Donor Network. He was a graduate of the Boston Latin School and Yale College ('41), and a First Lieutenant in the Army (1942-1946). In addition to his dedicated public service, Bill will long be remembered for the sense of humor and sound advice that guided his family and many friends through life, as well as for the candy and silver dollars he found in their ears. He is survived by his wife Phyllis; their four children: John Levin (and Louisa Swift), Peter (and Anna) Levin, Emme (and Jonathan) Deland, and Kate Levin (and Mark di Suvero); seven grandchildren: Dylan, Mariah, Rawle, Will, Ned, Kate and Veri; and his sister Jean Brenner. Memorial service Friday, April 15, 11 AM in the Palm House at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, 1000 Washington Avenue. In lieu of flowers, please donate to any of the above charities.
        LEVIN--Wilbur. The Board of Trustees, staff and auxiliary of Brooklyn Botanic Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and former Trustee Wilbur Levin. A much-loved leader in the Brooklyn Community, Bill gave over 35 years of dedicated service to the garden. His charm, wonderful sense of humor, genuine kindness, love of culture and the arts, and deep commitment to the garden and Brooklyn will be truly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Phyllis, his children, John, Peter, Emme and Kate, and to his entire family. Earl D. Weiner, Board Chairman Judith D. Zuk, President Katherine Doran, Aux Pres
        LEVIN--Wilbur A. The Zeitz Foundation mourns the loss of our fellow officer and director. He was a compassionate individual whose wise counsel to family, friends and the many organizations with which he was associated was always valued and relied upon. Bill's sense of humor and sage guidance were a gift remembered and cherished by all who knew him. His intellect, integrity and strong commitment to serving his community are reflected in the many charitable oganizations he served as a supporter, leader and advisor. Zeitz Foundation Directors
        LEVIN--Wilbur A. ''And in his grave rain'd many a tear.'' With deep sadness we mark the Levin family's loss, and all New York's. Kate's colleagues at DCA
      