
        KUONY--Madame Liane C. Of Fond du Lac, WI, passed away on Thursday, April 7, 2005. Madame Kuony was the proprietor of the Postilion Restaurant, School of Culinary Arts and Studio of Interior Design. She was renowned for her unwavering high standards, sense of style, and her ever present hat. Madame Kuony's energetic spirit and passion for life, coupled with heartfelt appreciation for family, friends, students, artisans, nature, and animals are how she will be most remembered. The pioneer of organic cooking, her commitment to educate all on the necessity of using only organic/unadulterated ingredients was her life-long mission. Madame Kuony's dedication to assist the disadvantaged was evident through her contributions to the Broken Bread program, Salvation Army, and the Fond du Lac Humane Society. A cherished mother, grandmother, teacher and friend to the community, this Wisconsin icon's sense of purpose will live on in the many lives she has touched. Madame Kuony was born in Antwerp, Belgium. Having completed her schooling in Switzerland, where she majored in interior decorating and the culinary arts, she made her way to the United States in 1937. A merchandising position brought her to Milwaukee, where she met and married her late husband, John H. Kuony, Jr. Appropriately, Madame Kuony fell in love with Fond du Lac, as it was reminiscent of the French countryside of her youth. She and her husband moved to the area in 1947 and opened an antique shop on Merrill Avenue, bringing a European flavor to the community. Upon the purchase of the Darling home at South Park Avenue in 1949, Madame Kuony set her sights on and was successful in bringing unique dining experiences to the people of the community through the opening of the Postilion Restaurant. Other business ventures over the years included the Postilion line of gourmet prepared foods, condiments, and compotes, in addition to the Four Winds restaurant in Greenbush, WI. Between 1980 and 1984, the Postilion expanded to include the Postilion II School of Culinary Art and supply shop along with the Great House Restaurant in Milwaukee, WI. Madame Kuony is survived by her two children: daughter, Suzanne (Hilton) Smack of Santa Ana, CA and John (Jeanine) Kuony of Pleasanton, CA; grandchildren Jennifer (Jonathan) Senften of Santa Ana, CA, Stephen Casey of Tustin, CA, and brother-in-law Frank (Mary Jane) Kuony of Pleasanton, CA. She was preceded in death by her husband, John H. Kuony, Jr. A private family service is being planned. In lieu of flowers, memorials in Madame Kuony's name may be directed to: The Fond du Lac Humane Society, 173 W. Pioneer Rd, Fond du Lac, WI; The Historic Third Ward Association, Milwaukee Public Market, The Madame Kuony Demonstration Kitchen, 219 North Milwaukee Street, 7th floor, Milwaukee, WI 53202; The Fond du Lac Area Foundation, 384 N. Main Street, Fond du Lac, WI 54935.
      