
        FISLER--Robert Parke, 84, in Newburyport, MA, died April 10 while in the company of his loving family. He was preceded in death by his wife, Elizabeth (nee Parker) of 45 years who died on December 14, 2004. Mr. Fisler is survived by his children and extended family including Barbara and her husband Charles Sturtevant (RI), Janet Dutton (CA), Helen Fisler (TX), Peter Fisler (CA), Parke Fisler and his wife, Christine Fisler (MA), and a loyal troupe of grandchildren and step-grandchildren. He was born and reared in Brooklyn, NY and graduated from Peekskill Military Academy. A defiant cadet, he ultimately learned how to harness his fierce energy and intellect. He became a voracious reader (of history, in particular), an agile lacrosse and soccer player as well as an astute student. He went on to Brown University (and remained a vocal fan and supporter). His academic career was interrupted by WWII as he joined the Army and flew the Burma India hump. Post War, he initially worked at St. John Associates, a direct mail advertising firm started by his aunt, Helen V. Fisler, but he soon moved forth to his Camelot--Time, Inc. This, he repeatedly proclaimed, was the luckiest move of his life for it provided him the perfect fit and forum for his multiple talents. ''Time, Inc'', he always said, was a ''great club''--an amazing group of people who were bright, verbal, energetic, spirited, curious, and creative. Informed and informative, he adored Time Inc, and the cerebral challenges that arrived daily. Over a period of some 35 years, he played a pivotal role in nurturing the eclectic, and rather formidable, magazine group: Time, Life, Sports Illustrated, People, Fortune, and Money. His title was VP and his domain was Circulation and Promotion. He was a wordsmith who spun wellcrafted letters that invariably hooked casual readers and turned them into committed subscribers. In addition to his pithy direct mail pieces, he was often the ''house'' orator/ emcee as he had a talent for writing his signature incisive and memorable odes, poems, songs, and speeches. He was awarded the ''Brown Bear Award'' for his lifelong contributions to Brown University and numerous professional recognitions throughout his career including the Irving Wundermann and Silver Apple Awards. After retirement, Mr. Fisler received his Master's Degree in American History from Manhattanville College. A diverse mind, he also reveled in numerous diversions. He was an avid golfer, an enthusiastic curler, a formidable and competitive gin player, and later in life, a renewed aviator. His most treasured pleasure was sweeping across a dance floor with elegance and with, of course, his beloved graceful Betsy. He enjoyed good cigars, fine wines, aged scotch, and most importantly, loyal friends and family. He will be missed by them all.
      