
        KENNEDY -- Richard Til ghman Paca, recently retired producer of on-air production with Channel 13/WNET New York, died suddenly April 16 at his home on East 81st., Manhattan, on his 69th birthday. Mr. Kennedy was with Channel 13 for many years, most recently the creator of Cabaret Thirteen, featuring a variety of singers performing selections and then discussing their careers and outlook. He was also featured in a TV tribute to Jack Paar, recalling the late host's remarkable personality and creative late show format of the '50s and 60's which still sets the style today. Joining NBC as a page in the mid-50's, Mr. Kennedy always had his heart in Manhattan. He was involved in buying rights to older movies for Corinthian Broadcasting, a network of CBS stations, anticipating TV's great demand for classic and run-of-the-mill cinema. Summers of watching movies in Maine gave him a competitive resource. He later helped develop Time Life Films, a division of Time Life, introducing BBC films to American TV audiences--series such as ''Civilization'' and Alistair Cooke's ''America.'' It was Mr. Kennedy's devotion to the theater that began with a childhood of watching Gilbert & Sullivan operettas and local theater in suburban Philadelphia and Maine Summer Theater. He was permanently hooked. A graduate of The Episcopal Academy, Merion Station, Pa., and Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine, he was active in theater groups, and president of Bowdoin's Masque and Gown. Mr. Kennedy is survived by two brothers, Anthony Kennedy III, Rose Valley, Pa., and Jackson W. T. Kennedy, Toms River, N.J.; six nephews and nieces and eight grandnephews and nieces, including an identical birthday grandnephew, Bentley Kennedy-Stone, Baton Rouge, LA.; and an uncle, The Rev. Canon Albert W. Tarbell of Albuquerque, N.M. A memorial service will be held Friday, May 6, at 10:30 A.M., at St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church, 109 E. 50th St., Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, friends may consider a contribution to Channel 13/ WNET New York.
      