
        GOTTESMAN--Milton M. On April 26, 2005, age 82, in Wash., DC, loving son of the late Esther and Benjamin Gottesman, beloved brother of David S. and the late Alice Gottesman Bayer, dearest brother-in-law of Ruth L. Gottesman, cherished uncle of Robert and Trudy Gottesman, Alice Gottesman and Laurence Zuckerman, and William and Debra Gottesman, and great-uncle to seven grand nieces and nephews. Graveside services will be held at the Union Fields Cemetery in New York on April 28th. Shiva will be observed in New York Monday--Thursday, May 2-5, 4-8:30pm. Services 7:30pm. For information 212-756-3333. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Jewish educational institutions of your choice.
        GOTTESMAN--Milton M. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, expresses its profound sorrow over the passing of Milton Gottesman, beloved son of the late Esther and Benjamin Gottesman, loving brother of David S. and the late Alice Gottesman, devoted brotherin-law of Ruth L. Gottesman, cherished uncle of Robert and Trudy Gottesman, Alice Gottesman and Laurence Zuckerman, and William and Debra Gottesman, and greatuncle to seven adoring nieces and nephews. Milton exemplified the family tradition of generosity, honoring his mother's instrumental role in creating Hadassah College Jerusalem, and making the College his own. He helped make possible the Esther Gottesman Center for Technology and the Gottesman Auditorium at the College. His wisdom and generous spirit will be missed by all who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Gottesman family. May his memory be for a blessing. June Walker National President
        GOTTESMAN--Milton M. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Milton M. Gottesman, beloved brother of David S. Gottesman and uncle of Robert and Trudy Gottesman. The Gottesman family's exemplary commitment to Jewish life, marked by boundless generosity and passionate leadership, enables us to enrich millions of lives in New York, in Israel, and around the globe. We extend our heartfelt condolences to David, to Robert and Trudy, and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        GOTTESMAN--Milton. The American Jewish Historical Society mourns the loss of Milton Gottesman, beloved brother of our trustee, David S. Gottesman. Milton loved his family's history and spent years researching and writing it. The society was proud to have published his book, ''Hoop Skirts and Huppas: The Garfunkel-Trager Family.'' Our condolences to all who mourn him. Sidney Lapidus, President Kenneth J. Bialkin, Chair David S. Solomon, Exec. Dir.
      