
        HALL--Evelyn Annenberg. 93, on April 21, 2005. Devoted daughter of Moses Louis and Sadie Cecelia Annenberg. Cherished sister of Enid Haupt. Beloved mother of John and Robert Friede and Thomas Jaffe. Loving grandmother of Lisa Friede, Karen Holden and John William Friede and great grandmother of Walker and Chloe Holden and Forrest and Rowan Beaudoin-Friede. Evelyn Hall loved her family with all her heart and we loved her back with all of ours. We will miss her deeply. She was a dedicated philanthropist. In lieu of flowers, the best way to honor her memory is to give to the charity of your choice. Service Tuesday, April 26, 1:30 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.
        HALL--Evelyn A.J. (Mrs. Melville Wakeman). The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council mourn the loss of Evelyn A.J. Hall, who had been a member of the Council since 1970 and a Trustee of the Museum since 1979. At the Museum she chaired the Library Committee and served on the Education Committee, as well on the Trustee Committee on Prints and Illustrated Books. She enriched the Museum's collection with work by Pierre Bonnard, Pablo Picasso, Joan Miro, Ellsworth Kelly, Louis Valtat, Edouard Vuillard, and, in a particularly notable gift made with her late husband, William Jaffe, with a selection of sixteen prints by Edvard Munch. Her gentle graciousness, quiet generosity, and sparkling presence will be missed. We extend our sympathies to her entire family. David Rockefeller, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Robert B. Menschel, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, NY Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        HALL--Evelyn A. J. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of a treasured benefactor, donor, and friend, Evelyn A. J. Hall. Her devotion to this institution for more than 40 years took many forms, including vital support for acquisitions and to endow--together with her son John A. Friede--the Evelyn A. J. Hall and John A. Friede curatorship for Oceanic art in the Metropolitan's Department of the Arts of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas. Her interest in Oceanic art was also reflected in her gift of an important group of works to the Oceanic collection, but her interests were wide ranging and led to generous gifts in a number of other areas, both on her own and with her son John Friede, including the art of Africa and the Americas, 19th-century and modern art, drawings, and American decorative arts. We will miss her graceful presence, and send to her entire family our heartfelt condolences. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director Emily K. Rafferty, President
      