
        FRIEDMAN -- Eugene W. M.D., 86. On April 18, 2005, from complications of prostate cancer. Beloved husband of Geraldine (Gerry) Gewirtz Friedman, devoted father to John and Robert Friedman, brother to David Friedman and grandfather of Elizabeth, Katie, Caroline and Meredith. A noted New York surgeon specializing in head, neck and breast surgery, Dr. Friedman spent more than 30 years as a clinical professor at the Mt. Sinai Medical Center and School of Medicine. In 1952, he was named Chief, Division of Head and Neck Surgery at Mt. Sinai, and treated an estimated 100,000 patients over the course of his career. Dr. Friedman was recognized as a pioneer in the use of the CO2 laser in clinical surgery. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, April 20, at 9:30 AM, at Central Synagogue at 55th St. and Lexington Avenue, 212-838-5122. The family will welcome friends at their Sutton Place residence on Wednesday, April 20, from 5 to 9 PM, and on Thursday, April 21, from 2 to 9 PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Eugene W. Friedman, MD., and Geraldine Gewirtz Friedman Fund for the Mt. Sinai Medical Center, c/o Mt. Sinai Development Office, 1 Gustave Levy Place, Box 1049, New York, NY 10029.
        FRIEDMAN--Eugene, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. A pillar of the Mount Sinai community for more than 50 years, Dr. Friedman represented the best tradition of Mount Sinai, exemplified by his dedication to teaching and commitment to clinical excellence. Dr. Friedman served as President of The Mount Sinai Alumni from 1979-1980. He was the innovator of important changes which led to new policies highly beneficial to the Association and the Medical Center and in 1987, received a Special Recognition Award for helping transform and expand the scope of the Association. A beloved physician in our community and a dedicated member of our faculty, in 1988 The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Friedman in acknowledgement of his outstanding professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the Medical Center and the Alumni. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his entire family. Barry Stimmel, MD, Pres. Elliot Rayfield, MD, V.P. Martin Goldstein, MD, Treas. Steven Itzkowitz, MD, Secy.
        FRIEDMAN -- Eugene W., M.D. The Mount Sinai Medical Center and its Boards of Trustees mourn the passing of Eugene W. Friedman, M.D. Dr. Friedman was a pioneer in the use of lasers in cancer surgery. Thanks to his efforts, Mount Sinai was one of the first hospitals in New York to use the CO2 laser in clinical surgery and one of the first to offer a course in the use of this laser. He served as Chief of the Division of Head and Neck Surgery at Mount Sinai, was a founding member of both the American and International Societies for Lasers in Surgery, and he founded the Journal of Laser Surgery and Medicine. Dr. Friedman's dedication to innovation in medicine has left a strong legacy. His son, Robert Friedman, has continued in his father's footsteps through his service on the Mount Sinai Medical Center Boards of Trustees. We extend our sincerest sympathy to Dr. Friedman's wife, Geraldine, his son, Bob, and daughter-inlaw, Elissa Gretz-Friedman, M.D., a graduate of Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and the entire Friedman family. Peter W. May, Chairman of the Boards of Trustees Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., President, CEO and Dean
        FRIEDMAN--Eugene, M.D. The Department of Surgery at The Mount Sinai Hospital & The Mount Sinai School of Medicine mourns the passing of our distinguished colleague and dear friend. As an esteemed and highly regarded professor and surgeon, Dr. Friedman served the department and the hospital for over 35 years. He was recognized as a leader in the field of Surgical Oncology and served as Chief of the Division of Head & Neck Surgery. His contributions to the education of his students and care of his patients were extraordinary. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Dr. Friedman's wife, Geraldine, his son, Robert, a Trustee on the Board of The Mount Sinai Hospital, & daughter-in-law, Elissa Gretz Friedman, M.D., a graduate of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and the entire Friedman family. Michael L. Marin, M.D. Chairman Department of Surgery
        FRIEDMAN -- Eugene W., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of an outstanding colleague, surgeon, and teacher. Dr. Friedman devoted more than 35 years of service to Mount Sinai, specializing in surgical oncology and laser treatments. His commitment to the institution continues in the many lives he touched, through his son, Robert, an esteemed member of our Board of trustees, and his daughter-in-law, Elissa, a Mount Sinai Medical School alumna. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Geraldine, and to the family. Michael T. Harris, MD President Vicki Lopachin, MD Vice President Amy J. Weinstein Administrator
        FRIEDMAN--Eugene, M.D. A gifted physician and a wonderful human being. Our condolences to the entire family. The Grossbardt Family
      