
        LEVIN--Wilbur A., 84, died at home on April 12, 2005. He was County Clerk and Clerk of the Supreme Court and Commissioner of Jurors, Kings County, and former President, CEO and Chairman of Independence Savings Bank, and President of Martin's Department Store. Bill was a long-time board member of many institutions, including Brooklyn Law School, Helen Keller Services for the Blind, Brooklyn Botanic Garden, Brooklyn Hospital Center, Prospect Park Alliance and the New York Organ Donor Network. He was a graduate of the Boston Latin School and Yale College ('41), and a First Lieutenant in the Army (1942-1946). In addition to his dedicated public service, Bill will long be remembered for the sense of humor and sound advice that guided his family and many friends through life, as well as for the candy and silver dollars he found in their ears. He is survived by his wife Phyllis; their four children: John Levin (and Louisa Swift), Peter (and Anna) Levin, Emme (and Jonathan) Deland, and Kate Levin (and Mark di Suvero); seven grandchildren: Dylan, Mariah, Rawle, Will, Ned, Kate and Veri; and his sister Jean Brenner. Memorial service Friday, April 15, 11 AM in the Palm House at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, 1000 Washington Avenue. In lieu of flowers, please donate to any of the above charities.
        LEVIN--Wilbur A., 84, died at home on April 12, 2005. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Organ Donor Network mourn the loss of a distinguished business and community leader. Mr. Levin served as County Clerk and Clerk of the Supreme Court and Commissioner of Jurors Kings County, and former president, CEO and Chairman of Independent Savings Bank, and President of Martin's Department Store. He was a longtime board member of many prominent institutions, including the New York Organ Donor Network, where he served as treasurer and oversaw a significant financial turnaround. Bill will be remembered as an advocate of organ donation who addressed the important issues facing our organization with dedication and intelligence, while never losing his great sense of humor. He approached life with great appreciation and joy, full of love for family and dedication to the many organizations and charities that he supported. Rocco F. Andriola, Chairman N.Y. Organ Donor Network
        LEVIN--Wilbur A. The Brooklyn Law School community records with great sorrow the loss of Wilbur A. Levin, a steadfast, devoted and beloved member of the Brooklyn Law School Board of Trustees. He was appointed to the Board in 1968, and was named Chairman of the Finance Committee in 1973, positions he held until his death. From 1980 to 2003, he served as Vice Chairman of the Board. Generations of Brooklyn Law School trustees, deans, faculty members and students have benefited from his thoughtful stewardship and compassion. His role in helping the Law School achieve its highest aspirations was indispensable, and his mark on Brooklyn Law School is indelible. Although his presence will be missed, his legacy will be long enduring. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Phyllis, his children, grandchildren and the entire family. Stuart Subotnick, Chairman of the Board of Trustees Joan G. Wexler, Dean
        LEVIN--Wilbur A. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our long time, distinguished and greatly admired member, Wilbur A. Levin. With his family, we share the grief and loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. Rabbi David M. Posner, Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi Emeritus Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. Herbert C. Bernard, Sec'y
        LEVIN--Wilbur A. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Prospect Park Alliance deeply mourn the passing of our friend and Trustee, Bill Levin. He was a consummate gentleman whose professionalism, warmth, and wit graced the Board of the Alliance since its founding, over 18 years ago. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Phyllis, and his family. There was no one like Bill, and we shall miss him greatly. Henry Christensen III, Chair Tupper Thomas, President
        LEVIN--Wilbur. Helen Keller Services for the Blind regrets the passing of our senior Board Member of 42 years, Wilbur Levin. Fred McPhilliamy President Lawrence Wizel Chairman
      