
        LEVIN--Wilbur A., 84, died at home on April 12, 2005. He was County Clerk and Clerk of the Supreme Court and Commissioner of Jurors, Kings County, and former President, CEO and Chairman of Independence Savings Bank, and President of Martin's Department Store. Bill was a long-time board member of many institutions, including Brooklyn Law School, Helen Keller Services for the Blind, Brooklyn Botanic Garden, Brooklyn Hospital Center, Prospect Park Alliance and the New York Organ Donor Network. He was a graduate of the Boston Latin School and Yale College ('41), and a First Lieutenant in the Army (1942-1946). In addition to his dedicated public service, Bill will long be remembered for the sense of humor and sound advice that guided his family and many friends through life, as well as for the candy and silver dollars he found in their ears. He is survived by his wife Phyllis; their four children: John Levin (and Louisa Swift), Peter (and Anna) Levin, Emme (and Jonathan) Deland, and Kate Levin (and Mark di Suvero); seven grandchildren: Dylan, Mariah, Rawle, Will, Ned, Kate and Veri; and his sister Jean Brenner. Memorial service Friday, April 15, 11 AM in the Palm House at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, 1000 Washington Avenue. In lieu of flowers, please donate to any of the above charities.
        LEVIN--Wilbur A. All of us at Independence Community Bank mourn the death of Wilbur A. Levin, 84, a friend, business leader, and generous public citizen. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Phyllis, his children, grandchildren and the entire family for their loss. ''Bill'' Levin joined the Bank's Board of Trustees in 1965, was elected Executive Vice President in 1972 and became our 10th President in 1973, a post he held until 1985 when he became Chairman of the Board, retiring in 1995. During his tenure Mr. Levin had a pivotal role in creating a strong bank despite the deregulation of interest rates that led to economic upheaval in the banking industry. He also played an industry leadership role with the Community Bankers Association of NY State, frequently representing the Bank and the industry in Washington and Albany on regulatory issues and other challenges. Bill Levin set a high personal standard for community service and made it part of the Bank's business philosophy. In addition to many other civic activities that have enriched the life of the city and its people, Bill Levin was instrumental in the renaissance of the Downtown Brooklyn commercial district and the revival of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden and Prospect Park. He continues to be the inspiration for the active involvement of Independence and its executives in the civic and economic life of the communities where we live and work. Bill Levin also brought a high moral tone to everything he did which stands as an example to everyone in business. As a friend, a business leader and an extraordinary public citizen, all of us will miss him. Charles J. Hamm, Chairman Alan H. Fishman, President & CEO and The Board of Directors of Independence Community Bank
        LEVIN--Wilbur A. The Brooklyn Hospital Center is profoundly saddened by the passing of its esteemed Trustee, Wilbur A. Levin. Bill Levin has been a Trustee of The Brooklyn Hospital Center since June of 1964. Over his tenure of forty-one years, he served as Chairman of The Governance Committee (formerly Nominating Committee), the Development and Community Relations Committee, and the Joint Conference Committee. He was currently a member of the Executive Committee, and had previously served on the Operations Committee, and Financial Development Committee. In 1986, he was the first Trustee to receive the Hospital's Founder's Medal at the First Founders Ball event, and in 1999, he was recognized as the Hospital's Distinguished Trustee at the United Hospital Fund Annual Distinguished Trustee Luncheon. His integrity, thoughtfulness, and sense of humor will be greatly missed. The Board of Trustees, and the entire Brooklyn Hospital family extend deepest sympathy to the Levin family.
        LEVIN--Wilbur A. The Brooklyn Academy of Music mourns Bill Levin, lifelong champion of all things Brooklyn. Karen Brooks Hopkins, President
      