
        WOLFENDEN -- George Buchanan, Sr., the founding Headmaster of Tampa Preparatory School died peacefully in a hot tub in Duxbury, MA on April 1, 2005. The cause of death was respiratory depression from a Fentanyl transdermal patch. He was born on June 9, 1925 in Indiana, PA. He attended the Fessenden School, Phillips Exeter and Haverford College. He served with the U.S. Army during WWII in Newfoundland, Canada. He married Eleanor Houck of Brampton, Canada, and had three children. He worked in his family wholesale grocery business founded by his grandfather, George T. Buchanan for whom he was named. He was stationed with the Army in Japan during the Korean Conflict. In 1964 worked with the Presbyterian Church at the Interchurch Center in New York City where he managed the acquisition and disposition of overseas properties. He married Barbara Kirk in 1966 and had a daughter. At the age of 40 he resumed his education at Haverford College, graduating with a BA in History in 1968. He got his Masters degree from Brown. He taught history at Milton Academy, and was Housemaster of Wolcott House. He was recruited by a Milton parent to help start a preparatory school in Tampa, FL. In 1973 thanks to his endless zeal and charismatic enthusiasm, the school opened with 40 students. Three years later the school was fully accredited achieved with an enrollment of 260. He gave the school its motto, ''A Higher Purpose Than the Self.'' In 1989, he married Carol Langford, M.D. and moved to Duxbury, MA. He was a lifelong voracious reader, avid skier, tennis player and golfer. He is survived by his wife, his brother Richard of Ft. Lauderdale, FL, his children George B. Wolfenden Jr., John H. Wolfenden, Elaine W. Cockroft and Linda L. Wolfenden and six grandchildren. In lieu of flowers the family requests that donations be made in his name to Tampa Preparatory School in Tampa, FL, Haverford College in Pennsylvania or to the Friends Committee on National Legislation in Washington, DC.
      