
        SLOAN--Stephen, died April 28th, 2005 at home. Adored and adoring husband of Nannette (Nancy) Sloan, beloved father of Suzanne & Robert, treasured father-in-law to Kieran & Elizabeth, loving grandpa to Stephen Samuel Sloan II & Theodore Robert, and devoted brother-in-law to Sandra Barkin. He served as President of Lehman Bros. Realty Corp in the '70's, then started his own firm developing real estate across the country. He served as President of 510 Park Avenue for many years. He graduated from the Horace Mann School and served as a Trustee. He graduated from Washington & Lee University and in 2004 received their Distinguished Alumnus Award. At the age of 70, he went back to Columbia University and completed The Morningside Institute Program in Conservation Biology. He was an internationally recognized environmentalist and sportsman and served as Adjunct Professor of Marine Biology at the University of Miami Rosensteil School of Marine & Atmospheric Sciences. He was also the author of four books, holder of 44 World's Records & host of the syndicated radio show ''The Fishing Zone''. The legacy he leaves is the love of his family, the respect of his peers, and the challenge to future generations to conserve, replenish and be mindful of our streams, rivers and oceans. Services will be held Sunday, May 1st, 1:30 PM, Temple Emanu-El, 1 East 65th St, NYC. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Fisheries Defense Fund, 1040 1st Av, Suite 367, NY, NY 10022.
        SLOAN--Stephen. The Horace Mann School sadly mourns the passing of Stephen Sloan '50, cherished alumnus, distinguished former Trustee, dedicated fund-raiser and inspirational lecturer to our students. Throughout his 50 years at Horace Mann, Stephen Sloan enriched our lives with his friendship, warmth and support. He will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Nancy, his children Suzanne '77 and Robert '81, and his entire family. Dr. Eileen Mullady Head of School Robert J. Katz '65 Chair, Board of Trustees
        SLOAN--Stephen. The Chaim Sheba Medical Center and the American Friends of Sheba sorrowfully mourn the passing of Stephen Sloan, real estate developer, renowned sports fisherman, marine conservationist and author. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to our cherished board member, Suzanne Sloan Doyle, his daughter, and to his wife, Nannette, and son, Robert. Prof. Mordechai Shani, Director General Emeritus Leonard Shaykin, Chairman, American Friends of Sheba Shoshana Weisser, CEO American Friends of Sheba
        SLOAN--Stephen Samuel. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished member, Stephen Samuel Sloan. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. Herbert C. Bernard, Sec'y.
        SLOAN--Stephen. The officers, directors and share holders of 510 Park Avenue Corp mourn the passing of our esteemed president, friend and neighbor, Stephen. Stephen served as our president for the past 16 years. He devoted countless unselfish hours in the management of our building. He will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Nancy, his children Robert and Susan and grandchildren.
        SLOAN--Stephen. We join our cousins Nancy, Suzanne (Kieran) and Robert (Elizabeth) in mourning the untimely passing of Stephen our devoted friend and partner. A man of keen intelligence, wit, and charm. An astute business man and a negotiator without parallel. We will greatly miss his inspiring presence in our lives. Steve, may you have ''tight lines and a very good drift''. With love, Stephen and Madeline Barkin
        SLOAN--Stephen. Cherished friend of long-standing, Stephen was a first-rate guy and great world citizen. The hallmarks of his life were his integrity, his competence and his personal warmth. Susan and Elihu Rose
      