
        JORDAN--Greg. April 20, 2005. Beloved son of Patricia Jordan and the late Joe Jordan. Brother of Jeff Jordan. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call Sunday, April 24, 2-5 and 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Service Monday, April 25, 12 Noon at Marble Collegiate Church, 5th Ave at 29th St. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to IN GODS LOVE WE DELIVER, 166 Ave of the Americas, NY, NY 10013
        JORDAN--Greg. The employees and staff of Greg Jordan, Inc. mourn the passing of our deeply beloved and highly respected leader. Greg was one of the most talented and creative members of the nation's interior design community. Recently designated a ''Dean of Design'' by Architectural Digest, he leaves a great legacy of excellence in the work he has done as well as in his personal life. His employees and staff have been inspired by him and will carry forward the excellence he instilled in all of us. Our hearts go out to his mother, Pat Jordan and brother, Jeff Jordan. Rest in peace. The staff of Greg Jordan, Inc.
        JORDAN--Greg. Greg Jordan. The laughter. All those laughs. Laughing so hard you can't take a breath. The grin. Ear to ear. Naughty and with a huge twinkle in his eye, blinding us, and the laughter begins again. How fortunate and lucky and blessed we were to have had him here with us, however brief. There won't be one happy time where the memory and the image of Greg laughing, and we laughing with him, will ever leave us. Cari, Boman, Ruby & Matthew Modine
        JORDAN--Greg. Our beloved and cherished friend whose exuberance for life was an inpiration. His intelligence, distinctive creativity, selflessness, honesty, humility, generosity, and loving warmth made him a truly unique human being. He personified the very meaning of a beautiful person inside and out. He left us much too soon and will remain with us always. Our deepest sympathy goes to his mother Pat and brother Jeff. Susan and Robert Katz
        JORDAN--Greg. We mourn the passing of our dearest, sweetest, most treasured friend, Greg Jordan. A great mind, a great talent, a rich soul and a keen sense of humor are some of the many things we loved about Greg. He has made a wonderful impact on our lives and will forever be loved and missed. Blaine, Robert, Christopher and Pearl Trump
      