
        TREGOE--Benjamin B. Jr. Co-founder and chairman emeritus of Kepner-Tregoe, Inc., died on April 20, 2005 of complications from nonHodgkins lymphoma. He was 77. In 1958, Dr. Tregoe and Dr. Charles H. Kepner left the RAND Corporation, where they worked as systems researchers, to found KepnerTregoe and Associates, Inc. Innovative pioneers, the two social scientists conducted original research with major corporations and discovered a core set of analytical problem-solving and decisionmaking processes that continue to be recognized as universally valid. Today, 400 of the 1,000 largest corporations worldwide use Kepner-Tregoe management methods. Their company, which later became Kepner-Tregoe, Inc., is headquartered in Princeton, NJ and conducts business in over 50 countries and 20 languages. Since its inception, Kepner-Tregoe has transferred its problem-solving, decision-making, and planning approaches to millions of managers. Dr. Tregoe and his colleague, John W. Zimmerman, also developed a process for strategic decision making that has helped many top management teams set and implement strategy. Dr. Tregoe provided the inspiration and leadership for Kepner-Tregoe over many years. He held a firm belief in the quality and depth of development for every associate as they delivered Kepner Tregoe's services to clients. He was conceptionally brilliant, a tough questioner, and a sensitive counselor. Dr. Tregoe and his company have been a significant force in organization development, pioneering both the train-thetrainer approach and process consulting, both of which have become common practice. He was elected to the Human Resource Development Hall of Fame. Dr. Tregoe was a leading lecturer and published extensively in journals throughout the world. His first book, The Rational Manager, which was co-authored with Dr. Kepner in 1965, is recognized as a landmark publication in the field of management methodology. He also co-authored The New Rational Manager: An Updated Edition for a New World (1997); Top Management Strategy: What It Is and How to Make It Work (1980); Vision in Action: Putting a Winning Strategy to Work (1989); The Culture of Success: Building a Sustained Competitive Advantage by Living Your Corporate Beliefs (1997); and Analytic Processes for School Leaders (2001). In 1993, Dr. Tregoe realized a long-held dream when he established the Tregoe Education Forum. This nonprofit organization provides students in middle and high schools with the critical-thinking skills needed to effectively solve problems, make decisions, and work together. Dr. Tregoe was born in San Francisco on December 23, 1927. He graduated from Redondo Union High School in Redondo Beach, California in 1945. After serving in the U.S. Marine Corps, he received his bachelor's degree from Whittier College and a Ph.D. in sociology from Harvard University. He also received an honorary LL.D. from Whittier College, where he served as a trustee and a board member. He was a member of the board of directors of The J.M. Smucker Company, the National Alliance of Business, The World Affairs Council of Philadelphia, and the Princeton Day School. He served as chairman of an advisory committee to the dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University. He is a past member of the Young Presidents' Organization, where he served as international education chairman and a member of the board, and a member of the Chief Executives' Organization. Dr. Tregoe is survived by his wife, Jeannette Tregoe; two daughters, Cynthia Richetti and Elizabeth Gonzalez; one son, Benjamin B. Tregoe III; and two grandchildren, Kaleigh and Gavin Richetti. For information contact the Mather-Hodge Funeral Home, Princeton, NJ (609924-0242). A memorial service will be held at the Nassau Presbyterian Church in Princeton, NJ at 11 a.m. on Monday, April 25th. Following the service, a luncheon reception will be held at the Nassau Club, 6 Mercer Street, Princeton. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Benjamin Bainbridge Tregoe Fellowship Fund, The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Harvard University, University Hall 3 North, Cambridge, MA 02138-3654 or to the Cancer Support Group and Programs of Care of the Nassau Presbyterian Church, 61 Nassau Street, Princeton, NJ 08540.
      