
        BENEDICT--Coleman H. Coleman Hamilton Benedict, 93, Professor Emeritus of Columbia University, where he taught generations of undergraduates and graduate students for three decades, died of complications from pneumonia at New York University Hospital on April 20, 2005. He was the only child of Cleland and Florence Righter Benedict and a descendant of an illustrious old New York and New England family, which included his ancestor, the second president of Harvard University, Charles Chauncey, and the first mayor of Bridgeport, Connecticut, Lemuel Coleman. His grandfather, Coleman Benedict, entered Wall Street in 1864, and joined the New York Stock Exchange a year later. in 1890 he founded Benedict, Drysdale and Company and transferred his seat on the Exchange to Coleman's father Cleland. His uncle Lemuel, who also became a member of the Exchange, is incidentally renowned as the eponymous creator of ''Eggs Benedict'' for his breakfast order at the Waldorf Hotel in 1894, which the famous chef, ''Oscar of the Waldorf,'' prepared at his request, and named in his honor. Enrolled in Riverdale Country School in 1918, his love for the ancient classics and for teaching was imbibed from his Latin teacher, Marc M. Baldwin. Coleman matriculated at Princeton University in 1930, where he earned AB (cum laude) and MA degrees in Classics, and a Ph.D. in 1939. He began his teaching career as a Teaching Fellow at Western Reserve University in 1940, and was teaching Greek and Latin at the University of Vermont when he was called up for military service in 1942. Enlisted in the US Army Counterintelligence Corps (CIC), he rose to the rank of Technical Sergeant, received a battlefield commission as Second Lieutenant in November 1944, was promoted to First Lieutenant in September 1945, and was honorably discharged in January 1946. During this tour of duty, he made security checks of Army installations in the United States, and conducted investigations of suspected subversion, sabotage and espionage, in Britain, Wales, Belgium, France and Germany. His war journals include memorable accounts of his experiences in the landing at Normandy, in the Battle of St. Lo, the Battle of the Bulge, and with the first contingent of the US Army to enter Soviet-controlled Berlin. His CIC team was assigned to debug the villa occupied by President Truman and to protect him during his Potsdam conferences with Stalin and Churchill. In an early letter to his mother, he wrote ''The practical benefits of true education are going to show in the months to come. Moderation, self-control, and thinking are going to stand us in good stead. It will not be pleasant to watch the world go mad, but we shall, at least, have the satisfaction of not following it. We can't have Socrates' keen mind, but we can have his courage. He, too, lived in a world that fell apart.'' Dr. Benedict resumed his academic career at New York University during 1946-50, and continued at Columbia University for three decades from 1950 to 1980, retiring as Professor Emeritus. During most of those years from 1953 to 1975, he was the Departmental Representative of Columbia College and its School of General Studies, and its Chairman during several years in the 1970's. In that capacity, but especially in the classroom, his self-deprecating wit, enthusiasm, and astonishing breadth of knowledge, endeared him to and often motivated countless Columbia undergraduates, whose development was his priority as an educator, while depth of knowledge about all languages, literatures, and cultures was his prime personal goal. His early interest in the Romans in Southern Gaul resulted in several publications, including A History of Narbo (Lancaster Press). His insatiable search for knowledge led to articles ranging from Herodotus to Demosthenes, ancient coins in the Columbia University Library, and the ability to read in at least 14 foreign languages, including Russian, Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, Sanskrit, and Egyptian hieroglyphics, and of course all the Classical and Romance languages. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Ethyle R. Wolfe Benedict, Emeritus Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs, former Dean of Humanities, and longtime Chairman and former Professor of Classics at Brooklyn College of the City University of New York. Service Saturday, 1 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Interment Woodlawn Cemetery.
      