
        LUSTBADER--Edward E., 86, of Palm Beach, FL and Greenwich, CT on April 28th. Born July 2, 1918 Brooklyn, NY. Civil Engineer graduate RPI, owner/president of PJ Carlin Construction Co., New Rochelle, NY, built Shea Stadium, Port Authority Bus Terminal, Hunter College, Huntington Hilton Hotel. Avid outdoorsman, passion for golf, tennis, sailing, piano. Member of Brae Burn and High Ridge Country Clubs, Temple Israel in New Rochelle, Temple Sholom in Greenwich, Albert Einstein College of Medicine. Beloved husband of Paula, father of David predeceased, and Laura, Brian and Rachel, Andrew and Elizabeth, Susan and Fred, Amy and Bob. Grandfather of Aaron, Steven, Sarah, Jessica, Helaine, Ilana, Josh, Susanna, Jacob, Elias, Rebecca and Jonas. Brother of Ruth. Son-in-law of Rosie. Predeceased by first wife Sybil. Donations: RPI. Services are on Friday, April 29th, at 2:00 PM at Temple Israel, in New Rochelle.
        LUSTBADER--Edward. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our dear friend, who for many years was a compassionate and caring supporter of our biomedical research and education programs. With his beloved wife, Paula, Ed was a member of the Einstein Cancer Center's Advisory Board and a member of the College's Society of Founders. He also was a dedicated member of our Men's Division. To Paula, who serves on the Board of Directors of our National Women's Division and is an honorary President of its Westchester-Fairfield Chapter, and to the entire family, we offer our deepest sympathy. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        LUSTBADER -- Edward E. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Edward Lustbader. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Paula, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary
        LUSTBADER--Edward. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, Edward Lustbader. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his entire family. Michael Barasch, President Dr. Robert Green, Secretary
        LUSTBADER--Edward E. Temple Israel of New Rochelle records with sorrow the death of its Honorary Trustee and extends its sympathy to the family. Patricia Lampl, President Michael Z. Cahana, Rabbi
      