
        BRECKER--Richard L. Of Vero Beach, FL and Nantucket, MA, died unexpectedly of respiratory failure on March 29, 2005. He was 83 years old. Prior to his retirement in l991, he was Chairman of Brecker & Merryman, Inc., an international consulting firm headquartered in New York which he co-founded with Andrew Merryman in 1973. The firm was subsequently acquired by Manpower, Inc. Born in New York, he attended the Pawling School and graduated with honors with exceptional distinction from Yale in December, 1942. While at Yale he was an editor of the Yale Daily News and wrote music and lyrics for two Yale Dramat shows which toured the country. During World War II he served for two years in the U.S. Marine Corps attached to the OSS (Office of Strategic Services). He then spent eight years here and abroad as a U.S. Foreign Service Officer, including tours as Vice Consul and U.S. Information Officer in India, Chief of the USIS Exhibits Branch, Officer in Charge of the official U.S. exhibition at the International ''Atoms for Peace'' conference in Geneva in 1954, and Briefing Officer for the Secretary of State. While in Geneva, on loan to the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, he escorted President Eisenhower through the live atomic reactor which was part of the U.S. exhibition. Before establishing his own firm, he spent a number of years with several leading advertising agencies in New York and as a co-owner of a flag manufacturing company in Clifton, NJ. Active in various civic and community affairs, he was a member of the New York City Youth Board, a member of the New York Republican County Committee, and a Director of the New York Young Republican Club. He was also Vice Chairman of the YMCA of Greater New York, a member of the YMCA's National Board, a Board member of the Professional Children's School, and Vice President and for fifteen years a member of the Council of the University Club in New York. From 1979 to 1994 he served on the Board of Visitors of the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University. Music played a big part in his life from his earliest years, and while at college he briefly considered making a career out of it. He was an accomplished pianist, playing popular music largely by ear. Two of the numerous songs he wrote were published and one was recorded by Carmen Cavallero. When the Yale Dramat staged a retrospective musical in 1980 called ''Deja Review'', the pre-opening announcement said the show would ''pay tribute to Yale composers from Cole Porter to Maltby and Shire and Richard Brecker''. At his death he was a Trustee of the Naval War College Foundation in Newport, RI, President emeritus of the Yale Club of the Treasure Coast, and a Director of the Indian River Land Trust Association. Having traveled widely, including a mule-back trip to Tibet the year before the Chinese took over that country, he was also an Honorary Fellow of the Explorers Club. Mr. Brecker was a member of the John's Island Club, the Nantucket Yacht Club, the Sankaty Head Golf Club, the Siasconset Casino Association and the Metropolitan Club in Washington, D.C. A master mason, he was a member of Holland Lodge in New York. He is survived by his beloved wife of 47 years, the former Joan Rowcliffe, by their three children, Mrs. Douglas T. Hendrickson of New York, Mr. Jarvis R. Brecker of Portland, OR, Mrs. Jon R. Yenor of Riverside, CT, by five grandchildren, and by his sister, Mrs. Richard H. Leeds of Upper Brookville, NY. A memorial service will be held at Trinity Church in Vero Beach on Thursday, April 7th. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in his memory to the Naval War College Foundation Inc., 686 Cushing Road, Newport, RI 02841.
      