
        MELIS--Jose, formerly of Bronxville, NY, passed away in Sun City, AZ on Tuesday April 7th, 2005. Best known as the Musical Director for Jack Paar's Tonight Show, Jose was born in Havana, Cuba on February 27th, 1920. A child prodigy, he began studying piano when he was three years old, with his first performance at the age of four. He was a professor of Solfeggio and Theory at eight years old and graduated from the Havana Conservatory of Music when he was ten. In Paris, he studied with the eminent Alfred Cortot under a Cuban government scholarship. Jose arrived in the U.S. at the age of 16 to study under the tutelage of the distinguished Erwin Bodky in Cambridge, MA, where he graduated from the Longy School of Music. From there he went to New York to study at the Julliard School of Music when, in 1943, he was drafted. Jose served in the US Army and was stationed in Corpus Christi where he met the love of his life, Sue Renfrow. In 1944, he married Sue in a civil ceremony in Nashville, TN while on tour with the USO, at which time he served as conductor and musical arranger of a 40 piece band. While in the army, Jose met Jack Paar and joined him through the run of the CBS Morning Show, the CBS Afternoon Show and, finally, the Tonight Show, for which he wrote the theme song ''I-M-4-U''. He cut many records under contract with SEECO and Mercury Records, and performed with or conducted for numerous artists, from Frank Sinatra to Clark Terry to Tito Puente. He has been feature performer for the Boston Pops, and the Saint Louis, Rochester, and Miami Symphonies, to name a few. In later years, though blind and almost completely deaf, he performed benefits for various civic organizations and institutions. Jose lived less than two years after his beloved wife died. He leaves his daughter and son-in-law, Suzanne and John Golembieski, his son and daughter-in-law, Michael Melis and Carmen, as well as seven grandchildren, with an eighth predeceased, and three great - grandchildren. Surviving as well is his brother, Rafael Guiu; a sister, Rosita Dinsmore died not long ago. Jose Melis was a fine husband and father, a great talent, and an honorable man. As his life ebbed, his fingers played melodies on the counterpanes. In the end, he was still making music.
      