
        WHITE--John F. (Jack), 87, died April 22 at home in Virginia Beach, VA. In NYC, Jack became President Emeritus of The Cooper Union after 11 years as President. Formerly, he was President of National Educational Television and Radio (now PBS and NPR) and served as special assistant at ASPEN Institute. A graduate of Lawrence College, with Master's from U. of Chicago, he had honorary degrees from Lawrence, Cornell College, Hamilton and Temple. On the vestry of Trinity Parish and Trustee of St. Margaret's House, he was also Trustee of General Theological Seminary, Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Pres. of Venture Fund of Diocese of NY, and Sr. Warden of St. Marys-in-Tuxedo. He was director of Kornfeld Foundation, Orange and Rockland Utilities, and Shearson, Lehman, Hutton Mutual Funds. Honoraries are from the American Society of the Order of St. John and NY Society of Architects. Jack served as Director of Viacom International, Foreign Policy Assoc. and was Trustee of Bard College and the United Negro College Fund. Recent residences are Tuxedo Park, NY, and Sarasota, Florida. Predeceased by son, Michael and parents The Very Rev. Edward S. White and Lilah, Jack is survived by Joan, his wife of 61 years, and children Susan Sherman (Ted) and Christopher (Ellen); daughter-in-law Molly; brother Pat (Rose); eight grandchildren; Whitney, Kate, Cameron, Jamie, Alex, Sean, Teddy, and Lulu; and great-grand-daughters, Zoe and Madeline. Memberships include the University Club and The Tuxedo Club, where he had been Governor and Chairman. A memorial service will be held Sunday, June 12, at 12:30 PM at St. Mary's-in-Tuxedo Episcopal Church. Memorial contributions may be made to The Cooper Union or the Nashotah House Seminary, Nashotah, Wisconsin 53058.
        WHITE--John F. The Board, Officers, Faculty and staff of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art mourn the passing of John F. White, who served as president of the college with distinction from 1969 to 1980, and offer condolences to his family. Ronald W. Drucker, Chairman George Campbell Jr., President
      