
        MARSHALL--Douglas B., Jr. 58, of Houston, Texas died suddenly and unexpectedly on the 30th of March 2005 in Houston. Mr. Marshall was born on the 6th of November 1946 in Houston. Mr. Marshall was preceded in death by his mother, Margaret Cullen Marshall. Mr. Marshall is survived by his father, Douglas B. Marshall of Sioux Narrows, Canada; his son, Douglas B. Marshall III of Cambridge, MA; brother, Hugh Roy Marshall and sister-in-law, Cynthia Marshall of Reno, NV; nephew, Hugh Roy Marshall, Jr. of Virginia City, NV; nephew, Benjamin Cullen Marshall and wife, Michelle Marshall, of Oceanside, CA; nieces, Margaret Ann Marshall and Sophie Celeste Marshall of Reno, NV; and the children of Cynthia Marshall, Tina Marshall and Andrew Marshall of Reno, NV. Mr. Marshall is also survived by many members of his extended family, viz., the family of Hugh Roy and Lillie Cullen. Mr. Marshall was married to Alexandra D. Redding on November 23rd, 1974 at St. Thomas Episcopal Church in New York City. They were married for eleven years. Their son Douglas B. Marshall III was born on July 4, 1977 in Houston. Mr. Marshall held a bachelor's degree from the University of Texas at Austin. He spent his professional career in the petrochemical industry and private investing. Mr. Marshall was a former Director of Quintana Petroleum Corp. and The Cullen Foundation. At the time of his death, he was a Founder and Director of the Douglas B. Marshall, Jr. Family Foundation, an Advisory Director of the North American Piedmontese Association and a current member of numerous Oil & Gas, Cattle, and Arabian Horse organizations. Outside of work, Mr. Marshall was an avid outdoorsman, a boatsman, and a talented fisherman. He enjoyed many trips to his ranches in Magnolia and Barksdale, TX, where he spent afternoons driving the fence lines and roads observing flora and fauna. He was a kind, sensitive, intelligent, generous man. His family misses him dearly. The funeral service for Mr. Marshall was conducted on Tuesday, April 5th at St. Luke's United Methodist Church in Houston, TX, with the Rev. Dr. Laurens A. Hall of St. John the Divine Episcopal Church officiating. The burial was conducted on Thursday, April 7th in Barskdale, TX. For further information, kindly telephone Geo. H. Lewis & Sons, Houston, 713.789.3005.
      