
        KATZ--Nathan. Real estate entrepreneur, dead at eightyfive. By Joshua Resnek. Founder of the real estate company bearing his family name and headquartered in Elmhurst, Queens, died Saturday morning, April 2, 2005, at his home in Roslyn following a short illness. Mr. Katz, who was a Holocaust survivor, came to New York City in 1951, broke and not knowing a word of English. A decade later, he had begun a long steady climb in the residential real estate business. With enterprise, hard work and skillful management, Mr. Katz, over the decades, built one of the leading residential real estate and management companies that remain independently owned in the area. He worked every day alongside his daughter, Rita Levy, and sons-in-law, Marvin Katz and David Levy. Mr. Levy, the company's Chief Executive Officer, said that Mr. Katz was a true entrepreneur. ''He was our mentor and our leader and one of the most unique individuals I have ever met,'' Levy said. ''This was a man with a vision who started with nothing and who, through hard work and enterprise, built a family owned company that today is something to behold.'' Mr. Katz was born in Lithuania in 1919. He was educated there with a traditional Jewish education and later trained as a butcher. When Lithuania was invaded by the Nazis, Mr. Katz and his family fled their home town but could not get out of the country in time. They were captured and sent to Latvia, to a slave labor camp. They escaped their bondage in Latvia and returned to Shavel, Lithuania, only to find that the entire population was about to be sent to Auschwitz. Mr. Katz and his new bride, Sima, who wed in The Shavel Ghetto, fled into the neighboring forest where they lived hidden by Righteous Gentiles until the Russians liberated Lithuania. They then fled the Russians and with falsified papers, passed through Poland, into Germany and finally to the United States in March 1951. He published a book about his life experiences entitled: ''Teach Us To Count Our Days.'' Mr Katz leaves his wife of sixtyone years, Sima Katz, and two daughters, Miriam Katz, Bethpage, and Rita Levy, of Roslyn. He also leaves grandchildren Lisa, Michelle, Rebecca, and Matthew, and great grandddaughter, Fay.
        KATZ--Nathan. The Officers, Members of the Board and Staff of the American Society for Yad Vashem mourn the passing of Nathan Katz, Board Member. Through his unswerving commitment to the cause of remembrance and the Holocaust, a longtime contributor to the American Society for Yad Vashem, he was also a Builder of the New Holocaust History Museum at Yad Vashem, Jerusalem which opened last month. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Sima, daughters Rita and Miriam, their children and the entire Katz family. Eli Zborowski, Chairman
        KATZ--Nathan. The partners and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP mourn the passing of our devoted client and beloved friend. He was a distinguished gentleman and a great philanthropist. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Sima, his daughters Rita and Miriam and his sons-in-law David and Marvin and their families. Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP
      