
        HOCHSCHWENDER-Herman Karl, 85, passed away Thursday, April 28, 2005, in Naples, FL. He was born in Heidelberg, Germany, on March 1, 1920, and came to the U.S.A. in 1930, moving to Akron, Ohio in 1944 where he lived most of his life. He earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Yale University in 1941, and did post-graduate work at Harvard Business School. His professional career spanned several years in the private industrial sector with Sargent & Co. in New Haven, CT; the Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. in Akron; and Mohawk Rubber Co. of New York. In 1959, he founded his own consulting firm Hochschwender & Associates and, in 1972, acquired Smithers Laboratories to form Smithers Scientific Services Inc. in Akron where he served as chief executive officer and later chairman of the board until his death. He was a member of several professional organizations - the International Laboratory Assurance Co. (ILAC), the American Council of Independent Laboratories (ACIL), the International Union of Independent Laboratories (UILI) serving as president, the American Society of Testing & Materials (ASTM), the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) and the American Association of Laboratory Accreditation (A2LA). He authored a number of articles and papers on testing, research and management subjects related to the rubber and plastics and supplier industries, and addressed numerous technical and lay groups on a variety of subjects in his fields of expertise. In 1983, he headed a joint mission of the ACIL/State Department group to Japan to explore and develop the possibilities of increased trade in Japan by independent testing laboratories. He served as a trustee of the Akron Regional Development Board (ARDB), Akron General Medical Center, Children's Hospital Medical Center of Akron, and the Summit County Chapter of the American Red Cross. In 1976, he participated in a trade mission to China and served as an advisor to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce on international affairs. A year later, he was appointed by Ohio Governor James Rhodes an Ohio Commodore. In 1989, he was recognized for Smithers' commitment to growth and dedication to the Akron, Ohio area and received the coveted Eagle Award for Business Heritage. In 1994, he was inducted into the Tire Industry Hall of Fame. He was also a member of the Yale University Alumni Association, the Yale Club of New York, the Yale Club of Southwest Florida, the Akron City Club, the Portage Country Club in Akron, the Naples (FL.) Yacht Club, and the Royal Poinciana Golf Club in Naples. He had maintained a residence in Naples since 1969. He is survived by his loving wife, Mary ''Bo'' Koger; children Lynn Anne McGowin, Herman Karl Jr. ''Ted'', Irene Harris, James E., J. Michael, Patricia A. Mosely; six grandchildren and four great grandchildren. Calling hours will be Tuesday, May 3, from 4 to 7 P.M. at the Billow Funeral Home, 85 N. Miller Road, Akron, OH. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, May 4, at 2:30 P.M. at Westminster Presbyterian Church, 1250 W. Exchange St., Akron, OH. Memorials may be made to the Akron General Development Foundation, 400 Wabash Avenue, Akron, Ohio 44307, or to the Women's Auxiliary Board, Akron City Hospital, 525 E. Market St., Akron, OH 44304. (Billow FAIRLAWN Chapel, 330-867-4141)
      