
        IAKOVOS--Archbishop. The Executive Commitee, Board of Trustees and members of the Archbishop Iakovos Leadership 100 Endowment Fund Incorporated express their deep sorrow at the passing of Leadership 100's founder on April 10, 2005, and exclaim profound appreciation for his extraordinary ministry and service. Archbishop Iakovos founded the Archbishop Iakovos Leadership 100 Endowment Fund in 1984 as an act of love and commitment to forward the mission of the Greek Orthodox Church in America. Today it has grown to 700 members and has given more than $18 million in grants for the National Ministries of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America. Archbishop Iakovos, who served for 37 years as the Archbishop of North and South America, retired in 1996, but remained an inspiration to Orthodox faithful and to Leadership 100. A towering religious figure over so many critical decades in the history of our Church and our nation, he was known worldwide for his dedication to human and civil rights, religious freedom and to ecumenical dialogue and interfaith relations. May his memory be eternal!
        IAKOVOS--Archbishop. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns the loss of our longtime Trustee, Archbishop Iakovos. A towering personality whose love and dedication reached out beyond the Greek Orthodox Community. We will miss him as a colleague who contributed much to advance religious freedom, human rights and interreligious cooperation. Rabbi Arthur Schneier, Pres. Cardinal Theodore E. McCarrick, Trustee Archbishop Khajag Barsamian, Vice President Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, SJ, Vice President
        IAKOVOS--Archbishop. The Board of Directors of HANAC, Inc. is saddened by the passing of Archbishop Iakovos, Primate of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of North and South America until 1996. In recognition for his extraordinary ministry and respect for Orthodoxy, HANAC in 1993 named their first senior residence ''HANAC Archbishop Iakovos Senior Residence.'' His name will forever be remembered. Evangeline Douris, Chairman HANAC, Inc.
      