
        WOLF--Milton A. The Board and staff of the Ameican Austrian Foundation deeply mourn the passing of Ambassador Milton A. Wolf, who had worked so tirelessly for many years as our Chairman. Milton Wolf was the consummate diplomat. His distinguished service as the United States Ambassador to Austria established his international reputation for wise counsel and courageous decisions. He was a gentleman of great learning and intellect, a patriot who served his country in war and peace, a brilliant businessman, and a philanthropist whose generosity touched the world. Through the American Austrian Foundation, he helped establish the Salzburg Seminar Medical Programs in which the faculty of the Weill Cornell Medical College of Cornell University and leading physicians of the major hospitals in New York, Philadelphia and Duke University, with the support of the Soros Open Society Institute and the Austrian government, have given seminars and extended instruction to over 6,000 doctors from Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. It has beeen said that these programs are the most important contributions to the health and well being of the peoples of that part of the world since the collapse of the Iron Curtain. Ambassador Wolf established a program for young Austrian journalists in partnership with the Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University. The seminar program in his name on Media and Diplomacy has been hailed for its impact by its host, the Vienna Diplomatic Academy. He also initiated an intern program for graduate students at Case Western Reserve University in cooperation with Austrian financial institutions. He welcomed creative ideas, constructive discussion, and never stopped encouraging young people to consider public service as the highest calling. We share the sorrow of his children, Nancy, Caryn, Sherri and Leslie. On July 25, we will dedicate a park in Salzburg, Austria, that Ambassador Wolf gave in memory of his beloved wife, Roslyn. Milton Wolf brought honor to every aspect of his extraordinary life. His memory will be cherished always. Wiliam J. vanden Heuvel Vice Chair Thomas J. McGrath President Dr. Wolfgang Aulitzky Medical Director
      