
        CLARK--Kenneth B. The American Civil Liberties Union, its officers, Board of Directors and staff deeply mourn the passing of a principled, influential and pioneering leader on civil liberties. Dr. Clark was 90. The US Supreme Court cited his study on the effects of racial discrimination as an influence in its historic 1954 Brown v. Board of Education ruling declaring segregation in public schools unconstitutional. The ACLU was a friend-of-thecourt participant in the case. A towering figure in the struggle to end legally sanctioned racial discrimination, Dr. Clark was instrumental in developing the strategy to dismantle the system of explicit racism and overturn Jim Crow laws across the country. Even with the success of his efforts, he still understood the continuing effects of systemic discrimination. ''This is probably one of the most dangerous things facing manking today: A use and training of intelligence excluding moral sensitivity'', Dr. Clark once said. Throughout his career, he was always committed to integration because of his larger vision for what a diverse democracy ought to be. Where some civil rights leaders later came to question the value of integration, Dr. Clark defended the premise that an integrated American society would be better for everyone. An educational psychologist whose life work encompassed racial integration and improvement in the education of black children, Clark became a part of the ACLU in 1970, serving as a member of the national Board of Directors for one year. He joined the ACLU's National Advisory Council in 1985. He assumed chairmanship of the council in 1991, a post he retained until his death. ''The ACLU has persisted in meeting the most difficult tests of being the moral conscience of our nation'', Clark said in 1980. ''It has protected the fundamental political and human rights of all Americansindeed of all human beings within our jurisdiction''. Clark is survived by his daughter Kate C. Harris, and son Hilton B. Clark.
        CLARK--Kenneth B., Phd. Passed away on May 1, 2005, after a long illness. He leaves behind his son, Hilton B. Clark, his daughter, Kate C. Harris, his three grandchildren, Scott K. Harris, Natalie B. Thompson, and Andrea K. Harris, and his five great grandchildren, Myles, Paige, and Chase Thompson, and Katelin and Nathaniel Harris. With his late wife, Dr. Mamie Phipps Clark, he founded Northside Center for Child Development in 1946; the first private child guidance center in Harlem. Dr. Kenneth B. Clark was an eminent scholar, social activist and humanist, who dedicated his life to justice and social change. Family and friends will gather on Sunday May 8, 2005 from 2 to 6 P.M. at Benta's Funeral Home, 630 Saint Nicholas Avenue at 141st Street. Funeral services will be held Monday May 9, 2005 at 10 A.M. at Saint Phillip's Episcopal Church, 204 West 134 Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be sent to: Northside Center for Child Development, Executive Office, 1301 Fifth Avenue, NY, NY 10029. 212-426-3412. He will be deeply missed by his friends, colleagues, and above all, his entire family. The Family
        CLARK--Kenneth B., our Chairman Emeritus, spiritual father and beloved mentor, America's race diagnostician, and pioneer in the pursuit of social justice and an integrated society: full of insight, clarity of purpose, integrity, temerity, charm and wit, stubborn courage, who fought relentlessly to save all children from the damaging effects of race and caste. A great life, a giant public intellectual, wonderful human being, and a great loss. We whose lives have been touched and whose ideas have been formed by ''Dr. Clark'' are forever grateful, and will always be guided by his spirit and example. Michael Meyers, Executive Director New York Civil Rights Coalition
        CLARK--Dr. Kenneth. The Board of Directors, staff and families of Northside Center for Child Development mourn the passing of our cherished founder. He was our leader and inspiration. Along with his wife Mamie, he founded Northside, the first mental health agency serving children and families of Harlem. While he will be remembered for his neverending fight for justice and equality, we shall remember a gentle friend whose eyes sparkled with joy as he entered the haven he and Mamie founded. He will be dearly missed but will always be in our hearts and minds. Susan Patricof, Chairman Dr. Thelma Dye Executive Director
        CLARK--Kenneth. The City College of New York mourns the passing of a true giant of the twentieth century, Dr. Kenneth B. Clark. Professor Clark, who taught here from 1942 to 1975 and was the first African-American to become a tenured professor at The City University, was a true pioneer whose work documenting the brutalizing and dehumanizing effects of racism and segregation helped change America for the better. Dr. Gregory H. Williams, President The City College of New York/CUNY
        CLARK--Kenneth B. The City University of New York deeply mourns the death of Dr. Kenneth B. Clark, CUNY Distinguished Professor of Psychology at City College from 1942 to 1976. He will be long remembered for his lifelong commitment to education and against segregation. His brilliant career stands as an enduring inspiration for human rights. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his family. Benno C. Schmidt, Jr., Chairman Matthew Goldstein, Chancellor
        CLARK--Kenneth B. The Board of Trustees of The Hudson River Museum express their sadness at the passing of their esteemed former Board Member, Kenneth B. Clark, who contributed so much to us, our community and our nation. Jan Adelson, Chair Michael Botwinick, Director The Hudson River Museum
      