
        SHAPIRO--Alan R. Tragically on May 16 at age 50. Loving and devoted husband of Felice, and adoring father of Jake and Caleb. Cherished son of Barbara and Bernard Shapiro, loving brother of Susan and John Shapiro. Devoted son-in-law of Carol and Philip Finn. Beloved brotherin-law of Shonni Silverberg, Jane and Bill Michaud, Julie Horowitz and Philip Mittleman, and Emily Horowitz. Magical uncle of Zachary, Nathaniel, Sophie, Nathan, Michael and Evan. Founder of A2Organics. Alan brought energy and a sense of adventure to everything and his enthusiasm for life was contagious. Passionately involved in sports, books, ideas, community and social issues including his beloved Boston Red Sox. He soulfully embraced family and friends and in turn was adored by all. Services will be held at Larchmont Temple, in Larchmont, NY, on Thursday, May 19 at 10 A.M. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to Alan R. Shapiro Memorial Fund Jewish Communal Fund, 575 Madison Avenue, Suite 703 New York, NY 10022. For information call John J. Fox Funeral Home (914) 834-0144.
        SHAPIRO--Alan. The Board and staff of the American Academy in Rome note with great sorrow the death of the brother of John Shapiro, who together with his wife Shonni, and mother and father, Bernard and Barbara, are new but already beloved members of our community. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire family. Michael I. Sovern, Chairman David M. Childs, Chairman of the Executive Committee Adele Chatfield-Taylor, President Lester K. Little, Director
        SHAPIRO--Alan. The staff and patrons of the Department of Prints and Illustrated Books at MoMA mourn the tragic loss of Alan Shapiro, son of our Associates, Barbara and Bernard Shapiro, and brother of our Committee member, John Shapiro. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire family. Anna Marie Shapiro Trustee Chair Deborah Wye Chief Curator
        SHAPIRO--Alan. Memory is the only friend of grief and you have left us rich with them. We will remember your beautiful soul, delicious wit and hunger for intimacybe it with books or peopleforever. To Felice, Jake, and Cal, we will always be here for you. Andy, Susan, Josh and Ali
        SHAPIRO--Alan. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire Shapiro family on the tragic and untimely loss of your beloved Alan. Our hearts, prayers and love are with you. Patricia, Alan, Adam and Joshua Abramson
        SHAPIRO--Alan. A great friend who shared our lives. He will be with us on every mountain and by every seashore. Love, Emily, Becky, Jane Herzog and Jack Lusk
      