
        LEVITAN--James A. 80 died Saturday, May 14, of a heart attack. Jim was born onMarch 24, 1925, in New York City to Della and Leo Levitan. He started MIT at age 16 and graduated in 1948 with a degree in chemical engineering. After completing his service in the Navy during World War II, he began Columbia Law School where he met his wife Ruth. He graduated from Columbia in 1951 as a Kent Scholar and Editor of the Columbia Law Review. After Several years at Debevoise, Plimton and McLean; he joined the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate,Megher and Flom as a partner in 1965 and led their corporate tax division until he partially retired at age 70. Even after he ceased working full time,he continued to advise clients and consult with his partners on novel and challenging transactions. Jim loved his work but cares even more for his family. With his wife Ruth, he raised their three daughters and transformed their oneacre lot in Stamford into an award-winning garden. Jim always saidthere were many parallels between his work as an attorney and as a gardener. He believed in tough, hard work and that there was ''great satisfaction in completing a hard job, whether the problem was solving a complicated tax problem or preparing the rocky Connecticut soil for new hybrid rhododendrons.'' Jim felt that he had been in the right place at the right time in terms of his education, his career, and his family and often commented, ''It's better to be lucky than smart.'' He will be sorely missed by his wife Ruth, his daughters, Dr. Deborah Gerson, Judith Levitan and Susan Levitan, his brother Richard Levitan and his grandchildren Ruth, James and DavidGerson, Matthew, Thomas and James Ruan, and Alan Barnes. A memorial service will be held Friday, 2:00 at the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home, 2900 Summer St. Stamford, CT with a memorial gathering in the family garden to follow. In Lieu of flowers, memorial donations to Berea College Presidents office, CPO 1382, Berea, Kentucky, 40404 would be appreciated.
      