
        WOLF--Ambassador Milton A. PhD. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) are deeply sorrowed by the passing of our esteemed former President (1993-1996), Ambassador Milton A. Wolf. His distinguished term as U.S. Ambassador to Austria and his continuing involvement in economic policy making and diplomatic affairs, gave Ambassador Wolf the special skills needed to lead JDC during a period of intensive activity and growth. With Ambassador Wolf at the helm, JDC was able to capitilize on a host of new opportunities to serve critical Jewish needs in a post Cold War world. Joined by his beloved life partner, the late Roslyn Zehman Wolf, Ambassador Wolf traveled the world on behalf of JDC and the Jewish people, leading our first mission to Cuba, inagurating the first Jewish community welfare center established in the former Soviet Union-the prototype for a Hesed network that now numbers over 170, and presiding over rescue operations from Sarajevo, Syria, and Yemen. Above all, Ambassordor Wolf was determined to help the Jews of the former Soviet Union reclaim their heritage and ''return to the worldwide Jewish people.'' ''Future generations will never forgive us'' he said, ''if we neglect to meet this challenge.'' A past President of the Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland, an officer and trustee of several distinguished universities and a civic leader, Ambassordor Wolf has been honored for his service to his country, his community, and the Jewish people. On behalf of the hundreds of thousands of people benefitting today from the programs he helped bring to fruition, we mourn his untimely loss. We extend our deepest sympathy to his children, including our devoted Board member, Caryn Wolf Wechsler. We will miss his wise counsel and unswerving support. May his memory be for a blessing. Judge Ellen M. Heller, President Eugene J. Ribakoff, Chairman of the Board Steven Schwager, Executive Vice President
      