
        MAIZNER--Murray ''Moe.'' The last of the four sons of Sarah and Adolph Maizner, died on April 30, 2005, at 97 years of age, peacefully with ''no regrets; it's been a great run.'' Born April 16, 1908, his life embodied the American story of the 20th century. The child of immigrants, he had to leave school after the 10th grade to work and help support the family. By his early twenties, he had started a family business, including his father and brother Ben, manufacturing and retailing women's gloves. After becoming glove makers for vaudeville and theater stars, they became a successful retail chain, selling women's accessories. Running his end of the business from White Plains, the glove shops and ''Moe'' were an institution on Mamaroneck Avenue for 50 years. At 75, he decided it was time to try something new. Self educated throughout his life, he became an educator, teaching and mentoring others for the next 21 years. By the time he turned 96, he had been written up in the New York Times and had been formally recognized by the City of White Plains, Westchester County, the State of New York and the SBA for his contributions teaching in local schools and colleges and counseling young entrepreneurs, first at American Women's Economic Development in NYC, where was the head counselor, and until a few months ago, at SCORE in White Plains. A true philanthropist, Murray gave his time, his experience, his wisdom, his considerable knowledge and his caring, helping hundreds of people, many of them immigrants and the children of immigrants, realize their own business dreams. He leaves his wife of 70 years, Harriet, his daughters, Helen Bernstein and Nancy Raskind, and his son Andrew and five grandchildren. We will dearly miss our ''Pop-pop,'' as well as all of those whom he inspired and helped to create their own American stories. Services to be held at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel,'' Amsterdam Ave. at 91st St., New York City, NY, on Tuesday, May 3, at 12 pm. In lieu of flowers, please consider a donation to the SCORE Foundation, 409 3rd St. SW, 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20024; 800634-0245.
      