
        KURTZ--Norman D. Beloved husband of wife Honey, and loving father of daughters Lori and Stephanie. Norman was a leader in any field he pursued. In business he was the founding partner and driving force behind the success of Flack + Kurtz, where he was responsible for the engineering design of projects such as the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur, the World Financial Center in NYC, Bloomberg Headquarters at 731 Lexington Ave, The New York Times Headquarters in NYC, the Hearst Headquarters in NYC, and San Francisco MOMA. He excelled in academics, at Princeton as an undergraduate Phi Beta Kappa, and later as a Professor of Engineering at the School of Architecture. He was also a leader in athletics (basketball, tennis, skiing, and golf), and in his warm and loving relationship with his family and his legion of friends. He will be sorely missed by all who knew and loved him. Please send contributions in Norman's honor to Jazz at Lincoln Center or to the Helen and Norman D. Kurtz Foundation at The Jewish Communal Fund.
        KURTZ--Norman. On May 13, 2005. The engineering firm of Flack + Kurtz, The WSP Group, plc of London, the building community in the United States and internationally, mourn the loss of a true leader in the field. Norman was our mentor, our colleague and our friend. With Peter Flack, in 1969, he forged a firm dedicated to creativity and sophisticated engineering design for some of the most sophisticated and distinguished architectural projects around the world. For over 30 years Norman led F+K in the development of state-of-theart engineering design technology and globalization of building systems technology. He was an internationally recognized expert in the built environment, blazing the path of intelligent building systems and green engineering technology. Norman holds a BS in Mechanical Engineering from Princeton University and a Masters Degree from Stanford University. He was adjunct professor at the Princeton School of Architecture and has lectured at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard Graduate School of Design, Columbia and Cornell Universities. He is an ASHRAE Fellow and a member of the Council on Tall Buildings. Our thoughts and prayers go to Honey, Lori, Stephanie, Barry, Judy, and the entire Kurtz family. Services Sunday, May 15th, 1:30 pm, at The Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Rd, Scarsdale, NY. For further information www.flackandkurtz.com
        KURTZ--Norman. We will greatly miss our special friend of 30 years. Norm had a wonderful family, a brilliant career and a unique zest for life. We shared many activities together including 15 years of boys' bash in Vail and lunches to discuss the course of world events and our lives. As couples, we shared dinners, lunches, golf, celebrations and life in general. Our love and condolences go out to Honey, Lori, Stephanie, Barry and Judy. Judy and Howard Berkowitz Martha and Bob Lipp
        KURTZ--Norman. The Board of Directors and members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Norman Kurtz, whose many years of friendship, kindness and enthusiastic spirit will always be remembered. Our heartfelt condolences to Honey and the entire family. Steven M. Slaven, President Thomas W. Brock, Secretary
        KURTZ--Norman. Norman-you made your Saturday tee time of 9:18 at Quaker Ridge with a little help from your friend Rick. You were right-the new big driver is a winner and your drive was the best! Tall, beautiful, high, hit up the left side of the fairway against that perfect blue sky. I know you were watching. We all miss you very much. Bob, Howard and Roger
      