
        TARNOPOL--Michael ''Mickey'' of New York City on May 23. Beloved husband of Lynne (Lichtenstein). Loving father of Lori (Moore) and Lisa (Silverman) and fatherin-law of David Moore. Adored grandfather of Jami and Nicholas Moore and Lucy and Jack Silverman. Vice Chairman of Bear Stearns, Vice Chairman and Trustee of the University of Pennsylvania, Trustee of Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Trustee of the Prostate Cancer Foundation. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to: University of Pennsylvania, 3451 Walnut St, Room 627, Franklin Building, Philadelphia, Pa. 19104, attn: John Zeller or Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, POB 27106, New York, NY 10087-7106 attn: Barbara McLaughlin.
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. Larger than life and one of a kind, Mickey was an inspiration to all of his many, many friends and his family. Lived life to the fullest. Even near the end when mortals would have given up, Mickey persevered, thrived and built. Always there to support, encourage and fight for his wide circle of personal friends, business associates, clients, and, of course, his wonderful family. Mickey, we are among your ''new friends'', having known you for ''only'' 25 years. So many of your relationships go back so far, to college years and before. What a tribute to you to have forged such long lasting ties and to continue to be surrounded by people who genuinely admire, care and delight in our connection to such a special individual. You set the standard for all of us, your lifelong admirers. You will be terribly missed. Our heartfelt condolences to Lynne, Lisa, Lori and David and to Mickey's center of affection, grandchildren Nicholas, Jamie, Jack and Lucy. Cheryl and Michael, Jeni and Peter Joanna and Aaron
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. The University of Pennsylvania mourns the death of beloved alumnus Michael L. Tarnopol, Vice Chairman of its Board of Trustees and longtime member of the Board of Overseers of Penn's Wharton School. Since his Wharton undergraduate days he has remained one of Penn's greatest advocates and closest friends. A founder of The Penn Club of New York, he also supported scholarships and professorships, and was Co-Chair of Wharton's Campaign for Sustained Leadership. We will miss him profoundly and extend sincere condolences to Mickey's wife, Lynne, and their entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Amy Gutmann, President James Riepe, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        TARNOPOL--Michael. All of us at the Hampton Classic Horse Show were deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and Past President, Mickey Tarnopol. Mickey's strength and great humor through our good times and bad times were an inspiration to us all. His presence, with Lynne, Lori and Lisa at several decades of our event were happy times and we will miss him always. Mickey helped us grow and showed us how to face both personal and business challenges with strength and courage. We are proud to have known our friend Mickey and will always remember him fondly. The Hampton Classic Board and staff
        TARNOPOL--Mickey. With profound sorrow, the Prostate Cancer Foundation notes the death of Mickey Tarnopol, an active member of our board of directors for the past decade and a leader in the race to find a cure for prostate cancer. Mickey was a dear friend and colleague who will be deeply missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Lynne and their family. Mickey valiantly fought prostate cancer both on his own behalf and on behalf of the two million men and their families battling this disease. We commit to him that we shall continue the battle. The Prostate Cancer Foundation
        TARNOPOL--Michael. All of us deeply regret the death of our longtime client and friend, Mickey Tarnopol. He was served closely for many years by our recently deceased colleague, Gail Winawer. We shared her admiration for him, and her dedication and cherished friendship. We offer our heartfelt sympathy to Lynne and family. The Managing Directors and Staff of American Express Tax and Business Services
        TARNOPOL--Michael. The Meltzer family deeply regrets the passing of a dear friend. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to his wife Lynne, Lisa, Lori, David, their children and the rest of his family. He was a wonderful and loving husband, father and grandfather. A man of great distinction and integrity who left his mark and who was always sensitive to the needs of others.
        TARNOPOL -- Michael L. Mickey, you embraced our family as your own and we have been blessed by your love and warmth. As family, we will always treasure our shared memories. To Lynne, Lisa, Lori, David, Nicholas, Jami, Lucy and Jack, our hearts are with you today and always. Debra & Larry Halperin, Douglas, Katie, & Scott, Lisa Moore, Isadore Moore
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. Beloved brother-in-law and Uncle Mickey--you have been our guiding light, our inspiration to achieve only the best. Family always came first and your love of life and people came close behind. We miss you terribly and will think of you always. With love, Sande, Donald, Amy, Richie, Erica, Robert
        TARNOPOL--Michael. Mickey was a great man and an inspiration to everyone. He was the only person we knew who no one ever said a bad word about. We will always remember his kindness. We extend our sincerest condolences to our friend, Lynne and their children. Bruce and Robbi Toll
        TARNOPOL -- Michael L. Mickey, our matchmaker and friend, who epitomized loyalty, sincerity and elegance. You will always be in our hearts. Our sincerest condolences to Lynne and the entire family. Love, Marilyn, Alvin, and the Rush Family
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Michael L. Tarnopol, and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary
        TARNOPOL -- Mickey. To Lynne, Lori, Lisa, David, Nicholas, Jami, Lucy and Jack, we know how special Mickey was and how much you will miss him. We were honored to know him and share his warmth and love. Mindy, Michael, Katie and Jake
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. 45 years of friendship and love. Mickey, you were something special. We will rememberyou with deep affection and admiration. Lynne, all of our love to you, Lisa, Lori, David, Nicholas, Jami, Jack & Lucy. Always, Edie and Marvin
        TARNOPOL -- Michael. A great and good man who never let his deserved success diminish his humanity. Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to Lynne, Lisa, Lori, David and all grandchildren. Catherine and Fred
        TARNOPOL--Michael. Thank you to Mickey for his mentoring and friendship. We will miss his wisdom. Our deepest condolences to Lynne, Lisa, Lori, David and grandchildren. We feel blessed to be a part of your extended family. Alan and Steven Mnuchin
      