
        SEMANS--Dr. James H. A Duke University surgeon and urologist who combined a career as a leading medical scientist and physician with a passion for the arts and charitable causes, died at his Durham, NC home on April 21, 2005. He was 94. Semans was a pioneer in rehabilitative and urinary surgery who during World War II developed an operation to relieve retained urine due to spinal cord injury. At that time, renal failure was the primary cause of an early death in paralyzed veterans. In addition to his leadership as a medical scholar, Semans, along with his wife of 52 years, Mary Duke Biddle Trent Semans, was involved in numerous arts and charitable causes. Semans helped lead the establishment of the North Carolina School of the Arts in Winston-Salem in the 1960s and served as chairman of the school's board of trustees for the first 17 years. He also served for 48 years on The Mary Duke Biddle Foundation and was chair until his retirement in 2004. The Mary Duke Biddle Foundation funds charitable activities at Duke and other institutions in North Carolina and New York. As leader of the Biddle Foundation, he was asked to assist with the development of arts education and performing components at Duke, and was instrumental in the establishment of the Ciompi Quartet and the Institute of the Arts. Semans served on dozens of nonprofit boards of directors. He was president of the North Carolina Society for Crippled Children and Adults and vice president of the National Paraplegia Foundation and served on the Governor's Committee for Employment of the Handicapped. He was also an active leader in many arts, educational and cultural institutions and organizations. As a member of the North Carolina State Arts Council, Semans suggested establishing an emerging artists program that today provides programs in communities across North Carolina. For years he served on the Advisory Board of the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University, and on the Advisory Council of the School of American Ballet. Born in 1910 in Uniontown, PA --the youngest of seven boys and one girl --Semans received his bachelor's degree in 1932 from Princeton University. He earned his medical degree in 1936 from the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa and where he remained on staff as a urologist. During World War II, he served for two-and-a-half years as a major in the Army's medical corps and cared for hundreds of injured soldiers. It was during this time that he developed a deep interest in people with disabilities, a population for whom he was an advocate all of his life. After the war, he entered private practice for six years in Atlanta before joining the Duke medical staff as a surgeon and associate professor of urology. He was promoted to professor of urology in 1961. In 1953, Semans married Mary Duke Biddle Trent, the great-granddaughter of Washington Duke, in whose honor Duke University was named. Together they focused their energies on charitable work, especially involving the arts. At Duke the Semanses and the late Dr. Wayne Rundles established a premiere hospital arts program --now known as The Health Arts Network --at Duke Medical Center. Semans was an advocate for Duke establishing a world - class university museum and was instrumental in the development of the new $23 million Nasher Museum of Art, which is scheduled to open at Duke in the fall. In 1997, the Semanses were awarded the North Carolina Philanthropy Award. In recognition of their leadership in human relations, the Semanses received the first Humanitarian Freedom Award given by the Durham chapter of Hadassah in 1960. Nine years later, they received the National Brotherhood Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews for distinguished service in human relations. Semans also was honored by the North Carolina School of the Arts, Duke University, Duke University Hospital and the North Carolina Association of Arts Councils, among others. In addition to his wife, Semans is survived by seven children: Mary Trent Jones of Abingdon, VA; Sally Trent Harris of Charlotte, NC; Dr. Rebecca Trent Kirkland of Houston; Barbara Trent Kimbrell of Sullivan's Island, SC; Jenny Semans Koortbojian of Durham; James Duke Biddle Trent Semans of Chapel Hill and Beth Semans Hubbard of Los Angeles; 16 grandchildren and 22 great-grandchildren. His funeral was April 26 in Duke Chapel. Memorials may be made to the Semans Art Fund at the North Carolina School of the Arts or the James H. Semans Fund, Duke University Division of Urology.
      