
        PRICE--Virginia A. After graduating from Zanesville High School, Gena Price attended nearby Muskingum College in southeastern Ohio. She spent her junior year abroad in Aix-en-Provence and graduated from Muskingum with degrees in both French and Psychology. In 1966 Gina joined IBM, where she worked as a marketing representative, a software instructor, and executive consultant. In 1973 Gina entered the doctoral program in counseling psychology at Stanford University. As a doctoral student she began a 20-year collaboration with Meyer Friedman on the study and treatment of Type A Behavior. Gina helped develop the treatment protocol for modifying Type A Behavior in the Recurrent Coronoary Prevention Project (RCPP). The RCPP reduced both Type A Behavior and the rate of recurrent heart attacks in a group of over 1,000 post-coronary men and women. In 1978 Gina married Peter Enemark. That same year she began to study Christian Science. In 1980 Gina's son David Price Enemark was born, and she received her Ph.D. in counseling psychology. In 1982 her son Daniel Price Enemark was born, and Gina published her first book, ''Type A Behavior: A Model for Research and Practice.'' Gina led stress-management groups in the RCPP, at the Army War College, in the private sector, and in the Coronary/Cancer Prevention Project (CCPP). She also trained group leaders for the RCPP and for the CCPP. During the Soviet era, Gina traveled to Poland to teach the diagnosis and treatment of Type A Behavior there. She had a small private practice in Palo Alto, CA. Of all her professional activities, leading stress-management groups was the most important to Gina. Her observation that people with different personalities manifest Type A Behavior in different ways led Gina to study the Enneagram theory of personality types. She published her second book, ''The Essential Enneagram: The Definitive Personality Test and Self-Discovery Guide,'' in 2000, which included a self-test (validated on a group of over 900 people) that Gina developed based on her work at the Army War College. Gina traveled to Greece, Latvia, Thailand and Turkey to conduct workshops on the Enneagram. Gina was a businesswoman, a scholar, a research scientist, an author, a therapist, a group leader, a wife and a mother. She always believed that being a mother was her most important role. Gina was a member of Second Church of Christ, Scientist in Palo Alto, CA, and a volunteer chaplain in the San Mateo County jails. A memorial service will be held at Menlo Park Presbyterian Church, on Saturday, May 28, 2005, at 11 am. For information contact Spangler Mortuaries, Mountain View, CA.
      