
        MITTELMAN--Eugene. After a brave battle with cancer, Eugene Mittelman died on May 19 at Beth Israel Medical Center, surrounded by family and friends. He was born in 1935 in New York. He received his BA degree from Bard College and his law degree, as a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar, from Columbia University. From 1967 until the mid-1970's he served as Minority Counsel to the US Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee, appointed by Jacob K. Javits. During those years he helped to shape major pieces of progressive labor legislation. Subsequently, he entered private practice, specializing in labor issues and litigation in Washington, DC and New York City, most recently with the firm of Maidman and Mittelman. He lived his life with great passion, and he will be sorely missed. He is survived by his wife Frances, daughters Karen and Deborah, his mother Marion Banks, cousin Jim Blue, and grandson Jacob Mittelman. Funeral services will be held at 10AM on Sunday at Schwartz BrothersJeffer Memorial Chapels, 114-03 Queens Boulevard.
        MITTELMAN--Eugene. The partners and staff of Maidman and Mittelman, LLP, mourn the loss of Eugene Mittelman, our friend and one of our founding partners. He led us to many great achievements with conviction, intelligence, courage and grace. His contributions to our firm will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Frances Paris, his mother Marion Banks, his daughters Deborah Bottle and Karen Mittelman and his grandson Jacob. Stuart A. Jackson Gregory L. Maidman Mitchel A. Maidman Richard H.M. Maidman
        MITTELMAN--Eugene. The principals and staff of Townhouse Management Company are deeply saddened by the passing of Eugene Mittelman, attorney for the company for many years. Gene was our valued advisor and dear friend; he will be sorely missed. We express our sympathy to his widow Frances, his mother Marion, his daughters Debbie and Karen and his entire family.
        MITTELMAN--Eugene. ''Gene'' beloved friend, mentor and partner. You continue to teach us and to make us smile. With love, Mitchel, Arlene, Harry and Julia Maidman
      