
        KURTZ--Norman D. Beloved husband of wife Honey, and loving father of daughters Lori and Stephanie. Norman was a leader in any field he pursued. In business he was the founding partner and driving force behind the success of Flack + Kurtz, where he was responsible for the engineering design of projects such as the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur, the World Financial Center in NYC, Bloomberg Headquarters at 731 Lexington Ave, The New York Times Headquarters in NYC, the Hearst Headquarters in NYC, and San Francisco MOMA. He excelled in academics, at Princeton as an undergraduate Phi Beta Kappa, and later as a Professor of Engineering at the School of Architecture. He was also a leader in athletics (basketball, tennis, skiing, and golf), and in his warm and loving relationship with his family and his legion of friends. He will be sorely missed by all who knew and loved him. Please send contributions in Norman's honor to Jazz at Lincoln Center or to the Helen and Norman D. Kurtz Foundation at The Jewish Communal Fund.
        KURTZ--Norman. On May 13, 2005. The engineering firm of Flack + Kurtz, The WSP Group, plc of London, the building community in the United States and internationally, mourn the loss of a true leader in the field. Norman was our mentor, our colleague and our friend. With Peter Flack, in 1969, he forged a firm dedicated to creativity and sophisticated engineering design for some of the most sophisticated and distinguished architectural projects around the world. For over 30 years Norman led F+K in the development of state-of-theart engineering design technology and globalization of building systems technology. He was an internationally recognized expert in the built environment, blazing the path of intelligent building systems and green engineering technology. Norman holds a BS in Mechanical Engineering from Princeton University and a Masters Degree from Stanford University. He was adjunct professor at the Princeton School of Architecture and has lectured at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard Graduate School of Design, Columbia and Cornell Universities. He is an ASHRAE Fellow and a member of the Council on Tall Buildings. Our thoughts and prayers go to Honey, Lori, Stephanie, Barry, Judy, and the entire Kurtz family. Services Sunday, May 15th, 1:30 pm, at The Westchester Reform Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Rd, Scarsdale, NY. For further information www.flackandkurtz.com
        KURTZ--Norman D. The firm of Polshek Partnership Architects mourns the premature passing of Norman Kurtz, a deeply respected professional and a wonderful friend. His contributions to many of our most important projects have been inestimable. Our hearts go out to his wife, Honey, and their beloved family. James S. Polshek, Joseph L. Fleischer, Tim Hartung, Duncan Hazard, Richard Olcott, Susan Rodriguez, and Todd Schliemann
      