
        TARNOPOL--Michael ''Mickey''. Of New York City on May 23. Beloved husand of Lynne (Lichtenstein). Loving father of Lori (Moore) and Lisa (Silverman) and fatherin-law of David Moore. Adored grandfather of Jami and Nicholas Moore and Lucy and Jack Silverman. Vice Chairman of Bear Stearns, Vice Chairman and Trustee of the University of Pennsylvania, Trustee of Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Trustee of the Prostate Cancer Foundation. Funeral service today at 10 a.m. at Central Synagogue. In lieu of flowers donations can be made to: University of Pennsylvania, 3451 Walnut St, Room 627, Franklin Building, Philadelphia, Pa. 19104, attention John Zeller or Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, POB 27106, New York, NY 10087-7106 attention Barbara McLaughlin.
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center note with sorrow the passing Michael L. Tarnopol, a member of the Center's Board of Overseers and Managers. Mr. Tarnopol was a stalwart supporter and benefactor of Memorial SloanKettering's programs of research and treatment. Elected to the Board of Overseers in 2002 and to the Board of Managers the following year, he served on both the Joint Finance and Funding Committee and the Budget Subcommittee. Through the Tarnopol Family Foundation, he and his wife, Lynne, a member of the Administrative Board of The Society for Memorial Sloan-Kettering, have given generously to many Center efforts including the Campaign for Memorial Sloan-Kettering, the PepsiCo Foundation Prostate Cancer Fund, the D. Wayne Calloway Chair in Urologic Oncology, and numerous Society-related programs and events. Mr. Tarnopol was also a co-founder of the Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center Golf Invitational to Benefit Prostate Cancer Research. Michael Tarnopol was a valued friend and colleague and will be deeply missed. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife and family. James D. Robinson III Honorary Chairman Douglas A. Warner III Chairman Richard I. Beattie, Vice Chairman Louis V. Gerstner, Jr. Vice Chairman John R. Gunn, Executive Vice President Harold Varmus, President Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. Larger than life and one of a kind, Mickey was an inspiration to all of his many, many friends and his family. Lived life to the fullest. Even near the end when mortals would have given up, Mickey persevered, thrived and built. Always there to support, encourage and fight for his wide circle of personal friends, business associates, clients, and, of course, his wonderful family. Mickey, we are among your ''new friends'', having known you for ''only'' 25 years. So many of your relationships go back so far, to college years and before. What a tribute to you to have forged such long lasting ties and to continue to be surrounded by people who genuinely admire, care and delight in our connection to such a special individual. You set the standard for all of us, your lifelong admirers. You will be terribly missed. Our heartfelt condolences to Lynne, Lisa, Lori and David and to Mickey's center of affection, grandchildren Nicholas, Jamie, Jack and Lucy. Cheryl and Michael, Jeni and Peter Joanna and Aaron
        TARNOPOL--Michael. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the passing of Michael ''Mickey'' Tarnopol, an esteemed and beloved leader whose boundless generosity and passionate dedication marked a lifetime of distinguished service in business and philanthropy. Mickey's deep devotion to humanitarian and educational causes had a global reach, enriching and strengthening millions of lives worldwide. His deep connection to the Jewish community, overflowing with the spirit of klal Yisrael, made an indelible impact on the renewal of Jewish life and learning. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Lynne; and to their daughters, Lisa Silverman, and Lori Moore and her husband, David Moore; to their grandchildren & the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. It is with profound sorrow that the American Jewish Committee mourns the death of Michael Tarnopol, a global business leader and one of AJC's most treasured friends and generous benefactors. Michael was a member of our National Leadership Council and an inspired leader in our Wall Street and Palm Beach campaigns. We were proud to honor him in 1996 with our prestigious Herbert H. Lehman Award. He gave unselfishly of his time and many talents to enhance AJC's work for a safer, more tolerant society. His kindness and devotion to the Jewish people and to all people everywhere have left a shining legacy that time cannot erase. We will miss him terribly and send our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife, Lynne, his children and the rest of his grieving family. E. Robert Goodkind, Pres. David A. Harris, Exec. Dir. Jaime Kelstein, Asst Exec Director
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. The Board of Directors and management of Jones Apparel Group, Inc. are saddened by the loss of Michael L. Tarnopol, who served with distinction on our Board of Directors. Mickey Tarnopol was a major presence in the financial and business communities for decades, and his advice was greatly valued by the Jones Apparel Group management team. Mickey's intelligence and experience were unsurpassed, and all who were fortunate to have known him valued his genuine decency and friendliness. We extend our condolences to his family, to his friends, and to his colleagues at Bear, Stearns and Co., Inc. Peter Boneparth, President and Chief Executive Officer Jones Apparel Group, Inc.
        TARNOPOL--Michael. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledge with profound sorrow the death of Michael Tarnopol, beloved father-inlaw of our devoted Trustee, David Moore. A leader in every aspect of his life, Mickey Tarnopol was a long time friend of JBFCS and beloved to all who knew him. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Lynne, and his daughters, Lori Moore and Lisa Silverman, and his cherished grandchildren, Nick, Jami, Jack and Lucy. He will be greatly missed. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Exec VP and CEO
        TARNOPOL--Mickey. A dear friend of close to fifty years. Loved, respected and admired by all who had the privilege of knowing him, this giant of a man was special in so many ways. He was an unbelievable husband, father, grandfather and uncle. His loyalty and generosity to his wide circle of friends was legendary. Our hearts go out to his fabulous wife Lynne, and to his adoring children Lori, Lisa and David, and of course to his beloved grandchildren. His gallant and courageous battle against sickness now over, may he rest in peace. The Koenig Family
        TARNOPOL -- Michael. We deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend Mickey. We witnessed first hand his indomitable spirit, his unfailing courage and his passionate optimism during his illness. He defied all the odds with his determination to live life to the fullest. Our deepest sympathy to his beloved Lynne, Lisa, Lori, David and the children. Our families spent many wonderful occasions together and we will cherish these memories. With love and affection, Dot and John
        TARNOPOL -- Michael L. Dear Mickey, your incredible love for your family, your work, your philanthropic causes, for life itself, prompted you to fight the most valiant battle. You will be missed and grieved by many, but your spirit, your brilliance, your laugh will always be with us. Our hearts go out to Lynne, Lori, Lisa, David, Nicholas, Jami, Lucy and Jack; their strength and closeness are an inspiration to all of us. Our love and prayers are with you. Ornella and Robert
        TARNOPOL -- Michael. We mourn the passing of a great husband, caring father, loving grandfather and a generous and endearing friend. A mentor who gave so much to one and all be it charity, business or anyone in need. Mickey was truly one of the great people who came your way once in a lifetime--we are lucky as a family that he came our way for many great years. Jody, Charles, Mickey Weissman and Family
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of Michael L. Tarnopol, fellow member, friend and golfer. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Lynne, his children, Lori, Lisa and David and adored grandchildren, Nicholas, Jami, Jack and Lucy. Mickey will be missed by all at Atlantic. Robert E. Morrow, President Harvey L. Radler, Secretary
        TARNOPOL -- Michael. He who strives to do good and kind deeds attains life, success and honor. (Prov. 21:21) Central Synagogue notes with profound sorrow the passing of a beloved longtime member and loyal friend, Michael Tarnopol. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his sorrowing family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, Pres.
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. To the Tishman family, Mickey was bigger than life...a true man's man. Mickey always put his family and friends before himself. To Lynne, Lori, David, Lisa, Nick, Jami, Lucy and Jack, our thoughts and prayers are with you. We loved Mickey very much. Erica, Steven, Adam, Stuart and Julia
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. Beloved brother-in-law and Uncle Mickey--you have been our guiding light, our inspiration to achieve only the best. Family always came first and your love of life and people came close behind. We miss you terribly and will think of you always. With love, Sande, Donald, Amy, Richie, Erica, Robert
        TARNOPOL--Michael. To the Tarnopol, Moore and Silverman families our heart goes out to all of you on your insurmountable loss. Mickey's decency, energy, courage and character have always been, and will always be an inspiration for us and all who had the privilege of knowing him. Rica, Margery, Marcy, Henry
        Tarnopol--Mickey. The Entire Town School community mourns the loss of its great friend, Mickey Tarnopol. We will always remember his leadership, kindness, and generosity. We extend our sincere condolences to Lynne Tarnopol, Lori Moore, Lisa Silverman, and their families.
        TARNOPOL--Michael. The Board of Directors and members of Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Michael Tarnopol. Our heartfelt condolences to Lynne and the entire family. Steven M. Slaven, President Thomas W. Brock, Secretary
        TARNOPOL -- Michael. A great man and an inspiration to us all, Mickey lived life to the fullest, with dignity and class until his final days. Our thoughts are with his soul mate Lynne, and Lisa, Lori and David. Frieda and Roy
        TARNOPOL--Michael. To the Tarnopol family--Lynne, Lori, David, Lisa, Nicholas, Jami, Lucy and Jack--we send our condolences during this sad time. Board and Staff of the Eldridge Street Project
        TARNOPOL--Michael. You lived with dignity and class. Rest in peace, dear friend. Our heartfelt sympathy to his beloved Lynne, children and grandchildren. Sheila and David
        TARNOPOL--Michael. Uncle Mickey, we love you and will miss your warm and generous spirit. All our love, Erica and Robert Boas Amy and Richie Walken Spencer, Owen and Paige
        TARNOPOL--Mickey. Dear Mickey, you will always be our hero. Our thoughts are with Lynne, Lori, Lisa, David and grandchildren. Bob and Elissa Friedman
        TARNOPOL -- Michael L. Mickey, you fought a valiant battle. We will always cherish the years shared. You filled the world with your integrity, warmth, strength, generosity, kindness, intelligence, and good will for so many. Our hearts are with Lynne, Lori, Lisa, David, Nicholas, Jamie, Jack and Lucy. Rest in peace, dear friend. You will be sorely missed. Laura and John and the Pomerantz Family
        TARNOPOL -- Mickey. We deeply mourn the passing of our great friend and trusted advisor Mickey Tarnopol. His thoughtful counsel and constant friendship made a big difference in our lives. Our heartfelt condolences go out to Lynne, Lori, Lisa, David, Nicholas, Jamie, Jack, Lucy. The Kiam Family
        TARNOPOL -- Michael. We will forever miss our dear friend Mickey, a giant among men, who did it his way. Our love and condolences to his beloved family, Lynne, Lisa, Lori, David, Jamie, Nicholas, Lucy and Jack. Nancy and Jeffrey Lane
        TARNOPOL -- Mickey. You were the most courageous person we ever knew. You fought so hard for so long. Now rest in peace dear friend. We will miss you. Marsha & Richard Goldberg
        TARNOPOL--Mickey. Our family has lost a special friend. Phyllis, Marty, Alison and Mark Berman
      