
        HOLUB--John J. Educator and union activist, died of a cerebral hemorrhage in San Francisco on March 21, at the age of 68. Mr. Holub spent his entire career in New York City, where he was a founding member of the United Federation of Teachers and by 1967 an assistant principal in the city's public school system. His exuberant teaching and demanding leadership elicited passionate loyalty from generations of teachers and students. Mr. Holub was born on August 23, 1936, in Brooklyn, where he attended Public School 222, Brooklyn Technical High School, and St. John's University School of Education. He studied at New York University, City College of New York, and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, did doctoral work at Yeshiva University, and was a Swedish National Fellow at Stockholm University. Mr. Holub worked in both elementary and junior high schools, nearly all in Brooklyn. Extended periods of service included Cunningham and Bildersee junior high schools and P.S. 219 Kennedy-King School, where he finished his career. He helped design New York's Holocaust Studies curriculum, which was a national model and for which he was honored as a ''righteous Christian'' by Jewish organizations. He also taught at Yeshiva College. In San Francisco Mr. Holub volunteered in the public schools, the Fort Mason International Hostel, and the Little Sisters of the Poor's St. Anne's Home for the Aged. He attended and supported the Fromm Institute of the University of San Francisco, was a regular at the city's symphony and ballet, and was a patron of 42nd Street Moon and the New Conservatory Theatre. The city's Board of Supervisors eulogized Mr. Holub's contribution to police-community relations in his Pacific Heights neighborhood. Mr. Holub is survived by John Barry, his partner of 29 years, as well as his brother Joseph, nephew Karl and niece Susannah Holub, of Philadelphia. Contributions in his memory can be sent to the Little Sisters of the Poor, 300 Lake St, San Francisco, CA 94118. A website in his memory has been posted at http://dolphin.upenn.edu/holub/johnholub/.
      