
        COOPER--Elaine Terner. Her family mourns her passing on May 14th, 2005. Loving mother of Alan and Kimberly, Steven and Heather Mnuchin. Cherished grandmother of Emma, Dylan and John Player. Dear sister of Nancy Behrman and Carol Lederman. Services RELOCATED TO PARK EAST SYNAGOGUE, 163 E. 67 St., 12 Noon Monday, May 16th. Interment to follow Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY. Contributions in her name may be made to the Elaine Terner Cooper Fund at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, c/o Joan Roseman, 1275 York Ave., NY, NY 10021.
        COOPER--Elaine Terner. To my wondeful sister and best friend, what will I do without our daily telephone calls to talk about anything and everything good and bad. The many very special times that we shared together, especially with all our children, will never be forgotten. Barbecues at 701 Deal Road with Mom and Dad, the Ocean Club in Nassau, African safaris, walks on the beach in Bridgehampton, Snowmass skiing, school graduation, 111 Chateau, Breakers, 740 Park, and much more. I will cherish these memories forever. I will miss you every day. Carol and Mark
        COOPER--Elaine Terner. The Director and Trustees of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation express profound sorrow at the death of Elaine Terner Cooper on May 14th, 2005. A longtime friend and supporter of the Foundation, she served as Vice President of the International Director's Council. Her legacy will live on in our memories and through the art that she helped bring into the Foundation's collection. She will be deeply missed.
        COOPER -- Elaine Terner. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Elaine Terner Cooper, beloved mother of Alan and Steven, beloved sister of our devoted members and benefactors Carol and Trustee Mark Lederman, and sister Nancy Behrman. Deepest sympathy to the family. Funeral services Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67th Street, Monday, May 16, 12 noon. Rabbi Arthur Schneier
        COOPER--Elaine T. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of our congregant, Elaine Cooper, beloved mother of our esteemed Board member, Alan Mnuchin, and extends deepest condolences to the family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        COOPER--Elaine T. The Atlantic Golf Club mourns the passing of Elaine T. Cooper, fellow member and golfer. We extend our sincere condolences and heartfelt sympathies to her sons, Alan and Steven, her sisters Nancy and Carol, and the rest of her family. Robert E. Morrow, President Harvey L. Radler, Secretary
        COOPER--Elaine T. Dearest friend, we will miss your laughter and love of adventure. Our deepest sympathy to your beloved sons Alan and Steven Mnuchin, and the entire family. With love, Gail, David, Jeff & Lizzie Rudnick, and Barbara & Andrew Murstein
        COOPER--Elaine T. Elaine dear, you will be missed by the girls who loved to lunch, golf and played together. It won't be the same without you. Rest in peace dear friend, you were a great fighter. Love, Barbara, Jane, Dot, Margot
        COOPER--Elaine T. Dear friend who succeeded in living life to the fullest. Her elegance, indomitable spirit and commitment to those she held dear will long be remembered. Eileen and Richard Ekstract
        COOPER--Elaine T. A profound loss of an elegant and gracious niece and cousin. You will be forever in our hearts. Love, Aunt Selma, Mike and Ricky
      