
        BURGUIERES--Cheryl Courrege. In the early evening of May 9, 2005, Cheryl Courrege Burguieres, devoted wife and mother, peacefully passed away at home surrounded by her family after a bravely fought 15 year battle with breast cancer. Her memorial service was officiated by Archbishop Joseph Fiorenza at St. Anne Catholic Church in Houston, TX. Burial service took place at St. Helen Cemetery, Florence Plantation, LA. Cheryl was born in New Iberia, LA, on August 23, 1944, the second of four children born to Irene LeBlanc Courrege and Emile John Courrege. She graduated from Our Lady of Mt. Carmel High School in New Iberia, and the University of Louisiana, where she was a member of Alpha Omicron Pi sorority. On August 21, 1965, she married Philip Burguieres, her sweetheart throughout high school and college. The young couple moved to Virginia Beach, Virginia, where Cheryl taught History and Government. After living in Philadelphia where she worked at the University of Pennsylvania, and Edinburgh, Scotland she moved to Houston, TX. In 1999, her book, One Centimeter, was published, relating the autobiographical story of a young woman's interactions with her doctor upon learning that she has breast cancer. The book raised over $100,000, all of which has been donated in support of the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center. Cheryl was a member of the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation and served on the Board of Directors of the Homes of St. Mark. She was active in her adopted Houston community as a volunteer for the United Way of the Gulf Coast, the Museum of Fine Arts, the Heritage Society, and the Houston Symphony and was dedicated in her support of Baylor Research Advocates for Student Scientists. Cheryl was also an owner of the Houston Texans. Together with her husband in 1999, she was honored as one of the Cancer League's Pacesetter Couples of the Year. In 2004, she was recognized by the Samaritan Center and most recently received, along with her husband Philip, the Smithsonian Institute?s Woodrow Wilson award for Public Service. Beyond the considerable talents Cheryl shared publicly, she was so much more to her family and friends. In addition to being a wonderful wife, mother, daughter, sister and friend, Cheryl was a history lover, a devout Catholic, and wise counsel to those she loved. Memorial gifts may be made to the St. Helen's Cemetery Fund, P. O. Box 333, Franklin, LA 70538.
      