
        STEWART--Sy, of Manhasset, L.I. Devoted husband of Gloria. Beloved father of Michele, Lisa and Beth. Cherished grandfather of Michael, Jodi, Jesse, Eric, Emily and Lexie. Services today 1PM at ''Gutterman's'' 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, L.I.
        STEWART--Sy. The Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries and the Fashion Institute of Technology note with great sadness the passing of Sy Stewart, a dedicated foundation member and enthusiastic advocate of the college's academic mission. His wisdom, commitment and generosity will always be remembered. John J. Pomerantz, Chairman Dr. Joyce F. Brown, President, FIT, CEO, Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries
        STEWART--Sy. b. 9/13/26d. 5/11/05 It is with a saddened heart that we mourn the passing of a great man, honored mentor and true friend. We were fortunate to have known Sy. His wisdom and counsel will never be forgotten. His concern for the well being of friends and family wil always be remembered. Sheldon Brody, Gary Brody, Jeffery Brody & his friends at Marcraft Apparel Group
        STEWART--Sy. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member, Sy Stewart. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Services will be held Friday, May 13, at 1 PM, at Gutterman's Funeral Home, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, NY. Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec Dir Freddie Roman, Dean
        STEWART--Sy. To Sy, my beloved best friend, a father, a mentor and the best human being that anyone would be blessed to have known. I will love you forever. You made me and my wife Liana feel so special. To Gloria, Michelle, Lisa and Beth, we will always be here for you. Love, Arthur and Liana Backal
        STEWART--Sy. You will be in our hearts and memories forever. We loved you very much. Rose, Al, Brent, Michael and Margaret
        STEWART--Sy. A friend who will be deeply missed, but forever remembered. Francis Fraenkel Frances Sweeney
      