
        TYLER--Harold R. of New York City and Farmington, Connecticut. Beloved husband of Sallie Norris. Dearest father of Bradley E., John R. and Sheila Gregg. Beloved brother of Murney Kelleher. Dearest grandfather of Haley, Sarah and Katherine, Gregg and Quinn, Terrence and Peter Tyler. Beloved stepfather of Sara Bretell, Ned Norris, David Norris, Sam Norris and Julia NorrisGrodman, and beloved grand stepfather of Ben and Julia Bretell and Nathaniel and Matthew Norris. Memorial service will be held Thursday, June 2 at 3:00 PM at St. Matthew's Church, 382 Cantitoe St., Bedford, NY, telephone 914-234-9636. No flowers by request. Contributions to Legal Services for Children, 271 Madison Ave, NY, NY 10016, or Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation A, Shriver Tyler MacCrate Center for Justice, 256-260 Broadway, Brooklyn, New York 11211.
        TYLER--Harold R. Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation ''A'' joins Judge Harold Tyler's family and many friends in mourning his passing. Judge Tyler, in addition to his involvement in may other worthwhile causes, was a longterm champion of equal justice for all, having led the successful defense of the national legal services program against those who attempted to eliminate it during the Nixon Administration. More recently he was a critical pillar of support for our neighborhood-based program of free legal services to the low income communities of North and East Brooklyn, where his beloved daughter worked for a time as a social worker. Brooklyn ''A'' is extremely proud to have its Williamsburg headquarters building, the Shriver Tyler MacCrate Center for Justice, as an ongoing monument celebrating Judge Tyler's good works, courage, brilliance, savvy, ''can do'' approach, and commitment to decency and fairness. Marty Needelman, Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation A
        TYLER--Harold R. Jr. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Citizens Crime Commission of New York City mourn the passing of Judge Harold R. Tyler Jr., a longtime and much esteemed member of our board. His strong leadership and wise counsel will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Richard J. Ciecka, Chairman Thomas A. Reppetto, Pres.
      