
        SLOAN -- Stephen. Passed Thursday, April 28, 2005. Born in New York City June 21, 1932. Adored and adoring husband of Nannette (Nancy) Sloan, treasured father of Suzanne Sloan Doyle (Kieran) and Robert Sloan (Elizabeth), loving Grandpa to Stephen Samuel Sloan II and Theodore Robert. Internationally recognized environmentalist and sportsman. Holder of 44 International Game Fishing Association (IGFA) World's Record, many were caught in international waters, such as Lizard Island, Australia and Senegal, Africa. Author of ''Fly Fishing is Spoken Here'' with James Prosek, published by Lyons Press, ''Thanatopfish,'' published by University of New Mexico. He was also published in many issues of the Yale Angler's Journal and numerous magazines. In his book ''Ocean Bankruptcy,'' published by Lyons Press, Dr. Sylvia Earle said, ''Sloan has developed an ethic for the ocean that echoes Theodore Roosevelt's ethic for the land.'' Producer and host of the syndicated radio show ''The Fishing Zone,'' which for ten years has discussed the problems and challenges that our oceans and fishing resources face. Former Adjunct Professor at the University of Miami Rosensteil School of Marine Sciences. Chairman of the Fisheries Defense Fund. Chairman of Marine Fisheries Advisory Committee. Special Advisor to National Marine Fisheries Service. Trustee of International Game Fish Association. A founder of Henryville Conservation Club. Founder of Citizens Committee for Urban Fishing which later became Take a Kid Fishing, which is dedicated to teaching inner city youth the pleasures of fishing and the problems of conservation. Delegate United States: International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT). Director: National Coalition For Marine Conservation, Catskill Fly Fishing Museum. Trustee Emeritus: American Museum of Fly Fishing, South Street Seaport Museum. Member: The Fishing Hall of Fame, The Anglers' Club of New York, Balboa Angling Club, New York Yacht Club, Explorers Club. Although fishing and marine conservation were his passion, he served the New York real estate community for over 45 years. He served as President of Lehman Brothers Realty Co. After leaving Lehman he started his own firm. While developing real estate across the country, Mr. Sloan decided to use his knowledge of history and love of the water to produce one of his most creative achievements: the Pan Am Water Shuttle, a high speed ferry that ran between Wall Street and LaGuardia, which was the first commercial transit use of the NY waterways since Cornelius Vanderbilt. He served as President of 510 Park Avenue Corp. for 14 years and was a Vice President of the Realty Foundation. He graduated The Horace Mann School in 1950, where he was a member of the Varsity Club and later as an adult served as a trustee for many years. He graduated Washington & Lee University in 1954 with a BA in English. In 2004 he was honored by Washington & Lee University as their Distinguished Alumnus. A man with indefatigable energy, at the age of 70 he went back to Columbia University and earned a 120 hour certificate in Environmental Biology. The legacy he leaves is the love of his family, the respect of his peers and a challenge to future generations to conserve, replenish and be mindful of our streams, rivers and oceans. Services to be held May 1, at Temple Emanu-el, 1 East 65 St., 1:30pm. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions to the Fisheries Defense Fund, 1040 1st Ave, Suite 367 NYC, NY 10022. Robert, Elizabeth, Stephen II and Theodore Sloan, Suzanne Doyle Sloan and Kieran Doyle
        SLOAN--Stephen, died April 28th, 2005 at home. Adored and adoring husband of Nannette (Nancy) Sloan, beloved father of Suzanne & Robert, treasured father-in-law to Kieran & Elizabeth, loving grandpa to Stephen Samuel Sloan II & Theodore Robert, and devoted brother-in-law to Sandra Barkin. He served as President of Lehman Bros. Realty Corp in the '70's, then started his own firm developing real estate across the country. He served as President of 510 Park Avenue for many years. He graduated from the Horace Mann School and served as a Trustee. He graduated from Washington & Lee University and in 2004 received their Distinguished Alumnus Award. At the age of 70, he went back to Columbia University and completed The Morningside Institute Program in Conservation Biology. He was an internationally recognized environmentalist and sportsman and served as Adjunct Professor of Marine Biology at the University of Miami Rosensteil School of Marine & Atmospheric Sciences. He was also the author of four books, holder of 44 World's Records & host of the syndicated radio show ''The Fishing Zone''. The legacy he leaves is the love of his family, the respect of his peers, and the challenge to future generations to conserve, replenish and be mindful of our streams, rivers and oceans. Services will be held Sunday, May 1st, 1:30 PM, Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave. at 65 St, NYC. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Fisheries Defense Fund, 1040 1st Av, Suite 367, NY, NY 10022.
        SLOAN--Stephen. The officers, directors and share holders of 510 Park Avenue Corp mourn the passing of our esteemed president, friend and neighbor, Stephen. Stephen served as our president for the past 16 years. He devoted countless unselfish hours in the management of our building. He will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Nancy, his children Robert and Susan and grandchildren.
        SLOAN--Stephen. We join our cousins Nancy, Suzanne (Kieran) and Robert (Elizabeth) in mourning the untimely passing of Stephen our devoted friend and partner. A man of keen intelligence, wit, and charm. An astute business man and a negotiator without parallel. We will greatly miss his inspiring presence in our lives. Steve, may you have ''tight lines and a very good drift''. With love, Stephen and Madeline Barkin
        SLOAN--Stephen. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and neighbor of many years, Stephen Sloan. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Nancy and wonderful children, Robert and Suzanne. He was a man to be admired for his sincerity, honesty, optimism and courage. Robert and Gladys Nederlander
        SLOAN -- Stephen. Barbara (Arn) and Arnold Katz, Tracey and Lisa Kay, and Patrick Arn, as Stephen's cousins are deeply grieved to have lost him from our midst. Stephen was a man of unique and numerous accomplishments owing to his infectious enthusiasm, keen intellect and unforgettable charm. His finest record was the life he lived.
        SLOAN--Stephen. Cherished friend of long-standing, Stephen was a first-rate guy and great world citizen. The hallmarks of his life were his integrity, his competence and his personal warmth. Susan and Elihu Rose
        SLOAN--Stephen. You will always be in our hearts and minds. Love forever to you, your beloved Nancy, Suzanne, Bobby and their families. Richard and Diana Feldman
        SLOAN -- Stephen. Dear Steve, we will carry on your environmental legacy and in this way honor your life. The Fellow Directors of Take-a-kid-Fishing
      