
        TARNOPOL--Michael ''Mickey'' of New York City on May 23. Beloved husband of Lynne (Lichtenstein). Loving father of Lori (Moore) and Lisa (Silverman) and fatherin-law of David Moore. Adored grandfather of Jami and Nicholas Moore and Lucy and Jack Silverman. Vice Chairman of Bear Stearns, Vice Chairman and Trustee of the University of Pennsylvania, Trustee of Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Trustee of the Prostate Cancer Foundation. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to: University of Pennsylvania, 3451 Walnut St, Room 627, Franklin Building, Philadelphia, Pa. 19104, attn: John Zeller or Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, POB 27106, New York, NY 10087-7106 attn: Barbara McLaughlin.
        TARNOPOL--Michael L. The Trustees, staff, students, and alumni of Prep for Prep mourn the loss of Michael ''Mickey'' Tarnopol. He was a dedicated Trustee with boundless enthusiasm for the program. His generosity and concern touched the lives of so many of Prep's deserving students. We send our condolences to Lynne and his entire family. Martin Lipton, Chairman Emeritus John L. Vogelstein, Chairman Anne Gilchrist Gleacher, President
        TARNOPOL--Michael. Mickey was a great man and an inspiration to everyone. He was the only person we knew who no one ever said a bad word about. We will always remember his kindness. We extend our sincerest condolences to our friend, Lynne and their children. Bruce and Robbi Toll
        TARNOPOL -- Mickey. To Lynne, Lori, Lisa, David, Nicholas, Jami, Lucy and Jack, we know how special Mickey was and how much you will miss him. We were honored to know him and share his warmth and love. Mindy, Michael, Katie and Jake
        TARNOPOL -- Michael. A great and good man who never let his deserved success diminish his humanity. Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to Lynne, Lisa, Lori, David and all grandchildren. Catherine and Fred
        TARNOPOL--Michael. Thank you to Mickey for his mentoring and friendship. We will miss his wisdom. Our deepest condolences to Lynne, Lisa, Lori, David and grandchildren. We feel blessed to be a part of your extended family. Alan and Steven Mnuchin
      