
        ELLINWOOD--George Webster, Jr. an international private banker, died peacefully on May 10, 2005 at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, FL., following a long illness. He was 71. The son of George W. Ellinwood and Doris (Green) Ellinwood, he was born in Providence, R.I. He graduated from Providence Country Day School and Colby College. Prior to his retirement in 1992, Mr. Ellinwood had been a Vice President of Citibank, where he worked for 36 years. At the time of his promotion to Vice President in 1968, he was the youngest employee ever appointed to this rank at Citibank. He headed Citibank's trust activities in the Bahamas and the Cayman Islands in the 1970s. He served the bank's clients most capably with professionalism and a personal touch remembered by many. For many years, Mr. Ellinwood lived in West Palm Beach, FL., New York and Lakeville, CT. Mr. Ellinwood leaves his dear companion, Hugh L. Harrison, three sons, Peter of Concord, N.H., Craig of Westport, CT., and David of Shrewsbury, MA., and a sister, Grace E. Wilson, of Bristol, R.I. He had seven grandsons, Gordon, Pierce, Sam, Wyatt, Tate, Jack and Hayden, a granddaughter, Lydia, and a step granddaughter, Natalie, whom he adored and visited with frequently. Besides his cherished family, he occupied his time with a variety of interests including serving on the Board of Directors of the Humane Society of New York, world travel and spending time on the water. A memorial service is scheduled for Saturday, May 21st at 10AM in the Chapel at Swan Point Cemetery in Providence, R.I. Mr. Ellinwood was a member of Bethesda-by-the-Sea Episcopal Church in Palm Beach, where a second service will be held in his memory next winter. Memorial contributions may be made in his name to the Humane Society of New York, 306 E. 59 St., New York, N.Y. 10022.
        ELLINWOOD--George. We extend our deepest sympathies to Hugh, Peter, Craig, David and the entire Ellinwood family. George's quiet charm, gentle manner, and wry sense of humor warmed our hearts. His integrity, loyalty and friendship made us better people. George touched all who knew him and we will miss him greatly. Beth, Rosita, Peter and Larry
      