
        DePAUW -- Fr. Gommar, Founder-President of the Catholic Traditionalist Movement and US Citizen, was born October 11, 1918 in Stekene, Belgium to a distinguished family which included early American settlers. At the outbreak of WWII he fought as a combat medic and was taken prisoner at the battle of Dunkirk. After escaping from prison camp he returned to the seminary to complete his studies by special indult of the Holy See. He was ordained a priest in 1942 and served as a battle-field chaplain until the end of the war. After post-graduate studies at the University of Louvain, he earned a Bachelors in Canon Law and the triple major licentiate in Canon Law, Moral Theology and Church history. In 1949, Father DePauw came to the US and while serving as a parish priest in New York City, he prepared for his doctoral dissertation at The Catholic University of America where he was promoted to Doctor in Canon Law. In 1952 he accepted the Chair of Moral Theology in Canon Law at Mt. St. Mary's Seminary in Maryland which he held for 13 years. Between 1962 and 1965 Father DePauw participated in the Second Vatican Council as a personal expert and procurator. During this time he publicly launched the Catholic Traditionalist Movement in 1965. The Holy See placed him under the jurisdiction of the Bishop of Tivoli Rome so he could continue his leadership of the Catholic Traditionalist Movement. Father De Pauw has contributed to several well-known publications as well as publishing his own. Most notable among them his 'Quote Unquote' and ''Peace through Strength.'' In 1968 he established the Ave Maria Chapel in Westbury, New York which became the first and only publicly functioning Traditionalist Catholic parish in the world. Besides being an influential voice in Church affairs, Father De Pauw was also influential in addressing issues facing the nation, culminating in meetings with President Reagan. Father DePauw was recognized by numerous international organizations for his leadership roles most notable among them Community Leaders of America and Who's Who in the World. Father passed to his well earned eternal reward on Friday May 6, 2005. Reposing Donohue Cecere Funeral Home, 290 Post Ave, Westbury on Saturday & Sunday from 2-4 & 7-9 PM. Funeral Service Monday 10AM at the Ave Maria Chapel, 210 Maple Avenue, Westbury, LI. Interment Pinelawn Memorial Park, Pinelawn, LI.
      