
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Passed away on June 21, 2005. Beloved wife and husband. Devoted parents of Marjorie and Mark Gershwind, and Mitchell and Kathy Jacobson. Cherished grandparents of Erik and Jackie Gershwind and Stacey and Michael Bennett and Joshua Jacobson. Loving great grandparents of Betsey and Bradley Bennett and Sophie and Jake Gershwind. Services Wednesday 1 PM at Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, N.Y.
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Mom and Dad, rest in peace together where you belong. We love you with all our hearts and will think of you everyday for the rest of our lives. Love and millions of kisses, Margie and Mark
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Mom and Dad, you can rest in peace knowing that you were great parents, inspirational role models and loved by all your family. You will be in our hearts forever and ever. Love, Mitchell, Kathy and Joshua
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Nanny and Poppa, you were second parents to all of us. Your love, devotion and wisdom was and always will be a constant in our lives. Love, Erik, Stacey and Joshua
        JACOBSON--Bernice & Sidney. Our hearts are heavy at the loss of our dear friends' parents, Bernice and Sidney. Their devotion, kindness and generosity to all charities is an inspiration to all of us. Our deepest condolences to Margie and Mark, Cathy, Mitchell and Josh, Stacey, Michael, Betsey and Bradley, Jackie, Erick, Jake and Sophie. Our entire family will miss their warmth, wisdom and guidance. May they rest in peace. Lissy and Allen, Lauren and Phil, Meryl, B.J., and Mia, Selma and Millicent.
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sid. We are so saddened by the loss of Bernice and Sid. Our hearts go out to Margie, Mitchell and the family. We, too, will miss them. The Cole Family Gladys and Al, Abbie, Kenneth and Maria
        JACOBSON -- Bernice. How does one withstand the loss of my best friend, confidant and sister? Our love for each other had no bounds. I will miss you. Rest in peace. Love Pat Markowitz
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. To the most devoted and loving family, our thoughts and prayers are with you. Diane Lederman and Frank Lederman
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice, whose endearing love will live on with those who knew them well. The Board of Directors and Associates of The Tiffen Company wish to express their deepest condolences and sorrow to the Gershwin and Jacobson families at the loss of Sid and Bernice Jacobson. The Board of Directors The Tiffen Company
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. The Palm Beach Country Club has suffered a grievous and irreparable loss in the sudden passing of our esteemed and beloved former president, Sidney Jacobson and Bernice, his wife, partner, and lover for fifty-nine years. Throughout his long illness, Sidney's kind and gentle demeanor never changed as he gave us a lesson in courage and stoicism, while Bernice taught us the true meaning of love and caring. Now they continue to be one in death as they were in life, leaving us with a void that can never be filled. They left this world together in an embrace that will last through eternity and they have gone to make even Heaven a better place. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. Dear, dear friends, we have known you over 50 years, during which time you have enriched our lives with your friendship and love. The Jewish community has lost a treasure with your passing away. Your devotion to Israel and Jewish causes here at home and abroad has been outstanding and will always be remembered. You will be deeply missed. Rest in peace. Phyllis and Joseph Gurwin
        JACOBSON--Sidney. I will always treasure the note you wrote to me extolling our mutual, deep friendship and love for each other. You concluded by saying you always felt secure when I was in the same room with you. Now you are in the hands of God. He will give you your security and appreciate your kindness and humaneness. Rest in peace. Harry Markowitz
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. The Tiffen, Cohen and Mendelson families wish to express their deepest condolences and sorrow to the Gershwin and Jacobson families at the loss of Sid and Bernice Jacobson. They were dearly loved and will be deeply missed. The Tiffen, Cohen and Mendelson Families.
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. To Margie, Mark, Mitchell, Kathy, Erik, Jackie, Stacey and Michael, our deepest condolences upon the loss of your parents and grandparents. We know how special they were to you and they will be missed. Love. Paul and Jeannie Karlitz
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. In loving memory of Sidney & Bernice Jacobson. You have always been a part of our lives and will forever be in our hearts. The Libshutz and Rosier Families
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. A magnificent couple in life. Together always. Our deepest condolences to the entire family. The Fortunoff and Rosenman Families
      