
        AHRENS--Joyce Nolan, Of Indian River Shores, Florida, died June 25, 2005 at Indian River Memorial Hospital, Vero Beach, Florida. Mrs. Ahrens was born in Brooklyn, New York in July 1925. She attended St. Francis Xavier's Academy and received her Bachelor's Degree from Notre Dame College and Master's Degree in Speech from Columbia University. Upon graduation she began her career in speech education and served with the Department of Speech Improvement of the New York City Board of Education. As well, Mrs. Ahrens directed speech education programs at several colleges in the New York area. She married William H. Ahrens in 1951 and resided in Princeton, New Jersey and New York City before departing for Tehran, Iran in 1959, where her husband served as chief architect for an international architectural and engineering firm. In 1962, the Ahrens moved to Rome, Italy where her husband established Ahrens DiGrazia International, a firm of architects, engineers and planners. The Ahrens remained in Rome, Italy for the next 33 years before moving to Indian River Shores in 1995. While in Rome Mrs. Ahrens took an active role in both the Italian and American communities, serving as President of the USO Council of Rome for several terms, President of the American Women's Association of Rome and President of the Santa Susanna Guild. She also served as trustee of the Vincent Palotti Institute. During her stay in Rome she was an English language news broadcaster for Vatican Radio and editor of the ''Word in the World'' published by the Society of the Divine Word. As an author she is known for her book on her life in Iran, ''A Persian Moment''. With her husband she received the ''Rector's Award'' from the Pontifical North American College in Rome. In 1989. Mrs. Ahrens was named a Dame of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta and in 1996 was appointed by Pope John Paul II a Dame of the Pontifical Order of St. Gregory the Great. Mrs. Ahrens was a member of John's Island Club, the Metropolitan Club of New York and of ''Aqua Santa,'' the Golf Club of Rome Visitation will be from 5-8 P.M., Tuesday, June 28, 2005 at the Strunk Funeral Home, Vero Beach, Florida. There will be a prayer vigil at 7:30 P.M., Tuesday. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at 10 A.M., Wednesday, June 29, 2005 at Holy Cross Catholic Church, Vero Beach, Florida. Interment will be in John's Island Cemetery, Indian River Shores, Florida.
      