
        OVARY--Zoltan. The Department of Pathology of NYU School of Medicine mourns the passing of our friend and colleague, Zoltan Ovary, M.D., Professor of Pathology, who died June 12, 2005, after 47 years of service on the faculty. One of the founders and early leaders in the field of immunology, he was internationally recognized for his discoveries and break through methods in the study of allergy, the control of the immune response, and the quantification of antibodies. Dr. Ovary was a consummate man of the 20th Century, his rich life spanning 98 years. Born in Kolozsvar, Transylvania, then part of Hungary, he lived in several countries in Western Europe before coming to the United States as a Fellow at Johns Hopkins University. In 1959 he accepted a position at NYU, where he educated and inspired countless students and colleagues. Convinced that life, science, and art are inseparable, he initiated the NYU School of Medicine Artist-inResidence program, which ran from 1965 to 1976. He was instrumental in putting the Aston Magna Foundation for Music and the Humanities on the cultural map, and at NYU he belonged to a nucleus of renowned immunologists-including Nobel laureate Baruj Benacerraf, Lewis Thomas, and Edward C. Franklin--who were devoted to the arts. He worked in his office until eight days before his death, sharing his passion for science and art. Dr. Ovary exuded an infectious zest for life; he was an extraordinary raconteur with a quick wit capable of reducing his listeners to tears of laughter. Even during recent periods of ill health, he displayed an ability to accept life at whatever cost, finding joy at museums and concerts and in communication with his devoted friends, both nearby and around the world. A memorial service at NYU is being planned. David B. Roth, M.D., Ph.D. Chairman, Dept. of Pathology NYU School of Medicine
        OVARY--Zoltan. The Helicon Foundation mourns the passing of our longtime friend and Director, Zoltan Ovary, M.D., whose dedicated love of science and art inspired all who knew and loved him. Albert Fuller, President and Artistic Director
      