
        WHITNEY -- David. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council mourn the loss of David Whitney, the constant companion to Philip Johnson for fortyfive years and a frequent presence at the Museum. David was never eager for the public credit he so richly deserved, but a 1999 exhibition at the P.S. 1 Center for Contemporary Art, showing a collection of 75 of Philippe Starck's signature objects and furniture pieces that David amassed and gave to the Museum, provided a rare insight into his unerring sense of excellence and eye for installation. David has given work to MoMA's departments of Painting and Sculpture, Photography, and Prints and Illustrated Books. He will be sorely missed, but his presence remains evident throughout the Museum. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Robert B. Menschel, Chairman Marie-Josee Kravis, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, New York Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman Jo Carole Lauder, President The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art
        WHITNEY--David. We join in mourning the loss of David Whitney with Philip Johnson, his late partner of forty-five years, David was a presence in the worlds of art and architecture. Although seldom in the public light, he everywhere nurtured beauty, from the many gifts he made to The Museum of Modern Art, to his influence on Philip's collecting and giving, through the spectacular Jasper Johns exhibition that he organized for the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1977, to his recent work at the new George Ohr museum in Biloxi, Mississippi. We are comforted to know that David saw his peonies bloom this year and will think of him often in gardens, galleries, and other glorious places. Agnes Gund and Daniel Shapiro
        WHITNEY--David. We are deeply saddened by the loss of David, and the art world has lost a great friend. The Franz Kline exhibition at the Whitney Museum in 1994-1995, and the Willem de Kooning retrospective at the Gagosian Gallery last year, both of which David curated, showed his great sensitivity and compassion for artists and their work. We will miss his warmth, his brilliance, his humor and his extraordinary eye. Jo Carole and Ronald S. Lauder
      