
        WOODS--Mary E. of Clinton, CT, died of lung cancer on May 24, 2005, at the age of 75. She was the daughter of John B.C. Woods and Elizabeth Galloway Woods. A New York City native, she graduated from Cornell University and received her Master's degree from Columbia University School of Social Work. An associate professor of Social Work at Hunter College and the co-author of the classic textbook, ''Casework: A Psychosocial Therapy,'' she was a recognized authority in her field. She had been a staff member of the Family Consultation Service in Eastchester, NY, doing clinical work with individuals and families and operating storefront programs for ''hard to reach'' youth. While there she also developed an in-service family therapy training program for psychiatrists, psychologists, and social workers at the Montefiore Hospital. She was a licensed social worker and a Fellow of the Society of Clinical Social Workers. She also published numerous journal articles and book chapters on a broad array of topics, ranging from psychopathology and the history of casework, to child abuse and neglect. In addition, she continued individually updating the classic textbook for the fourth and fifth editions. She served on various committees, among them the Fahs-Beck Fund for Research and Experimentation. She was a mentor to, and a role model for countless social workers, as well as a highly regarded teacher. She was commencement speaker to the graduating students at the Hunter College School of Social Work in 1992, and also received the lifetime achievement award from the Westchester Division of the National Association of Social Workers in 1993. She is survived by her brother John Galloway Woods and his wife Merilyn of Philadephia, two nieces, Anne Woods (Sonenklar) of Glen Allen, GA, and Dr. Elizabeth Woods (Lis) of Needham, MA, five grandnieces and grandnephews, and her colleague and companion of many years, Dr. Dorothy Kitchell-Cassidy. At her request, there was no funeral service and contributions in her memory should be made to a favorite charity. For more information Swan Funeral Home.
      