
        KOCH--Gertrude. Columbia, SC. Gertrude Brennan Carr Koch, 91, beloved wife of the late Otto Charles Koch, died Sunday, May 22, 2005 in Columbia. Born on July 19, 1913 in Newark, NJ, she was the daughter of the late Arthur and Gertrude Carr. She was a graduate of the College of St. Elizabeth, NJ, where she earned her B.A. degree in English. In 1936, she earned a Master's Degree from the Columbia Pulitzer School of Journalism, New York, NY. Thereafter, she interned at the New York Times and worked as a reporter for the Newark Evening News while working towards her Ph.D. In 1941, Gertrude married O. Charles Koch of Cliffside Park, NJ and served on committees of the American Association of University Women, as well as many local educational and charity organizations. She was also a member of the Daughters of the American Revolution. They moved to Montclair, NJ, where they raised their six children. She returned to Columbia University Teachers College to receive accreditation in teaching and her Ph.D. in Education. Gertrude taught English at Bloomfield High School, NJ for 28 years. Upon retirement, she served tirelessly as a docent for the Montclair Historical Society. In 1985, she moved to Columbia, where she served as a docent at the Art Museum and Governor's Mansions. ''Mimi'', as everyone in her family lovingly called her, was a passionate gardener, a voracious reader and a lover of opera. Surviving are daughters, Kathleen Ludwigson of Annadale, NJ, Elaine Pierson of Columbia, Gertrude Koch of Secaucus, NJ, Charlene Packham of Newport, RI, and Margaret Koch of Newport, RI; son, Charles Koch of LaJolla, CA; grandchildren, Elizabeth Ludwigson, Susan Ludwigson, John Ludwigson, Lizanne Koch; and great-grandchildren, Daniel and Johnathan Falvo and Benjamin and Eloise Wyatt. A memorial mass will be celebrated in the Holy Family Chapel, College of St. Elizabeth, Convent Station, NJ. She will be buried in Montclair, NJ, beside her beloved husband Charles. Dunbar Funeral Home, Devine Street Chapel is assisting the family locally.
      