
        DOHERTY--Sean of NYC died suddenly at NYU Medical Center on Monday (June 6, 2005). Sean was the loving husband of Meg, the beloved brother of Una, Patrick, Teddy, Noel, Mari Byron and the late Kathleen O'Brien, and the dear uncle of many nieces and nephews. Born in Ireland, Sean has lived in NYC for the past 38 years. Sean attended a Jesuit seminary in Ireland and served as Jesuit missionary in Peru and Bolivia. Sean was the Chief Executive Officer of TML Information Services, Inc. and the Chairman of the Board for the North American Driver Safety Foundation. Sean's passion for driver safety and protecting individual's privacy rights was exemplified in his innovative and creative work using official Department of Motor Vehicle driver records of the various states of the US and several foreign jurisdictions in Mexico and Canada for promoting highway safety both in law enforcement and in the rental and insurance industries. Sean's pioneer work in this field created a large source of revenue for many jurisdictions. Sean was active as an Associate Member of the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA) and a member of AAMVA's Industry Advisory Board. Sean was also a leader in the Insurance Industry Committee for Motor Vehicle Affairs and a member of the Board of the Network of Employers for Traffic Safety. Sean provided his international leadership skills to the US Department of Transporation for implementing a technology transfer that developed commercial driver and motor carrier safety initiatives and a safety information system infrastructure between the US and Mexico. As part of his contributions with the US Department of Transportation on safety data exchange between the US and Mexico, Sean served in the Transportation Consultative Group of the NAFTA Land Transportation Standards Subcommittee. Sean made significant contributions to the US Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Administration's Team/Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's working group facilitating the opening of the USMexico borders for commercial motor vehicle operators. Sean was a leader in promoting safe driving and was coauthor of the CDL Effectiveness Study for the Department of Transportation's Federal Motor Carrier Services Administration, a Report to Congress that was instrumental in the implementation of updated federal regulations embodied in the Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act. Sean will be remembered for his brilliant and creative mind, vast depth of knowledge in history, government, mathematics and the technical fields related to computers and information transfers, insatiable curiosity, inquiring mind, generous heart, love for his fellow man, and dedication to his friends, his business partners, and employees, all of whom Sean regarded as his family. Sean loved life which he faced with a sense of adventure and a zest for the joys this world brings; it was said of him that he lived life as a poet would like to record it, with intensity and uncompromising dedication. For Sean there was no other way. Sean's sense of humor and ''twinkle in his eyes'' will be with us always. Sean will be missed, but what wonderful memories and shared adventures he leaves for his family and friends to remember and cherish. A funeral service will be at Gannon Funeral Home on Friday at 9:00 AM followed by a burial service at The Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Hawthorne, NY. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations may be made to The American Diabetes Association, PO Box 1131, Fairfax, VA 22038-1131.
      