
        NEE -- David Dawes II. (1976-2005.) David Nee, a much loved member of the class of 2005 from Fordham University School of Law, and a graduate of Princeton University (class of 1998) and The Loomis Chaffee School (class of 1994), died of his own hand on Wednesday, June 22, in New York City. David was born in Hong Kong to his parents, Owen and Amber Nee, on February 24, 1976, and attended the Hong Kong International School, and the Rye Country Day School, before matriculating at Loomis in Windsor, Connecticut. Dave went on to Princeton University, where he was a member of the Ivy Club, and ''president'' of the Green Room. After graduation, Dave worked as an Associate Producer of ''Message in a Bubble,'' a public television documentary on the rise and fall of internet entrepreneurs, and he also edited an internet magazine called ''The Scrivener,'' which was devoted to contemporary comment and fiction, for several years. While at Fordham, Dave participated in the Jessup International Moot Court Competition both as an advocate and, during the past year, as a coach, and led his team to an eighteenth overall ranking in the world competition, the highest position ever achieved by the school. David leaves his parents, his older sister, Claire Nee Nelson, and younger sister, Alexandra. A memorial service will be held at the Rye Presbyterian Church, 882 Boston Post Road, Rye, New York, on Monday, June 27, 2005, at 11:00 AM. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be directed to two causes that were very close to David's heart: Legal Education Advocacy Program, Fordham University School of Law, 230 West 55th Street, Apt. 7C, New York, NY 10019; Fordham University School of Law, Attn: Moot Court Competition, in honor of David Nee, Office of the Dean, 140 West 62nd Street, New York, New York 10023.
        NEE--David. The Fordham Law School Community is deeply saddened by the death of David Nee, Class of 2005. David was caring, smart, funny and devoted to his family and friends. He did outstanding work on the Moot Court Board and impressed faculty with his knowledge and insight. We will all miss him. Dean William M. Treanor
        NEE--David Dawes. You were our bright, shining light. You will be in our hearts forever. Section 7, Fordham University School of Law, Class of 2005
      