
        SAPHIR--Judy. Passed away in New York on June 24 after a long brave struggle against cancer. Beloved wife of Dr. Richard L. Saphir. Super Mom of Steven and his wife Annette. Adoring grandma of Megan and Scotty. Dear sister of Dr. James Schwartz, and loving owner of Missy. Judy was a wonderful, caring human being with keen leadership ability and a sharp sense of humor. She devoted much of her life to philanthropic activities, most notably the Crohn's and Colitis Foundation and the search for a cure to breast cancer. Services will be Sunday, June 26 at 12 noon at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue at 91 Street. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of Greater New York, 386 Park Avenue South, 14th Floor, New York, New York 10016, C/O Judy Saphir Research Fund.
        SAPHIR--Judith. On behalf of the National Board of Trustees, volunteers, and employees of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, we offer our heartfelt condolences to the family of Judith Saphir, a treasured member of the Foundation's national board and former Chairperson of our Greater New York Chapter. Judy was indeed a woman of valor: All who knew her were awed by her courage and remarkable inner strength, while we were warmed by her love and compassion. Despite years of terrible and debilitating illness, Judy never lost her active and lively interest in her friends, family, and work for CCFA. As former Chairperson and current member of our Chapter Operations Committee, she played a unique and pivotal role in the Foundation's growth in communities across America. Judy was the beloved wife of Dr. Richard Saphir; mother of Steven and his wife, Annie; sister of Dr. James Schwartz; and the adored grandmother of Megan and Scott. We offer our deepest sympathies to her family, and hope that they will be comforted by the indomitable spirit of this extraordinary woman, who touched so many lives. We will never forget her. Mark Goldman, National Chairperson of the Board Rodger L. DeRose, National President and CEO Irwin M. & Suzanne Rosenthal, William D. & Shelby Modell, and Henry D. Janowitz, M.D.: National Co-founders
        SAPHIR--Judith. The Greater New York Chapter of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America mourns the loss of our Chairperson Emeritus, Judy Saphir. Mere words cannot adequately define what this loss means to the Chapter as in many ways Judy was the heart and soul of each of our many efforts. Her desire for a cure was matched only by her commitment to finding it. Judy's sage guidance, indomitable spirit and never ceasing belief in our efforts helped each of us achieve more than we might have without her leadership. But above all and despite her personal sufferings, Judy was a friend to all, always available, there to help, to soothe, to encourage and to rally. CCFA has lost a true Champion and each of us a dear friend. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Dr. Richard Saphir, her children Steven and Annie, her grandchildren Megan and Scott and her brother, and fellow CCFA Board Member, Dr. James Schwartz. David Solomons, CCFA Chapter President Nancy Brown, CCFA Chapter Chairperson Marilyn Haggerty-Blohm, Regional Exec Director Ed Munoz, CCFA Dir of Operations Irwin M. & Suzanne Rosenthal, William D. & Shelby Modell, and Henry D. Janowitz, MD CCFA National Co-Founders And the CCFA Greater New York Chapter Board of Directors and Staff
        SAPHIR--Judith. Our hearts cry out in profound sorrow at the loss of our cherished friend, Judy Saphir. The world is diminished and its light darkened by her passing. Judy faced unspeakable odds with courage and enduring optimism. She was the champion of all who were stricken with Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis, and dedicated her life to finding a cure. As we mourn her loss, we extend our heartfelt condolences to her devoted husband, Dr. Richard Saphir, to her wonderful children, Steven and Annie, to her loving grandchildren, Megan and Scott, and to her caring brother, Dr. James Schwartz. We will miss her forever. Shelby and Bill Modell
        SAPHIR--Judith. Beloved wife of Dr. Richard Saphir, a valued member of the Department of Pediatrics of Mt. Sinai School of Medicine since 1970. She was president of the Greater New York Chapter of Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America and is currently a board member of the national CCFA. An advocate for children, she was a founding board member of the Children's Center Foundation of the Mt. Sinai Department of Pediatrics. Mrs. Saphir was also an active member of the Breast Health Resource Center of Mt. Sinai. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the Saphir family. Dr. Frederick J. Suchy, and the Dept of Pediatrics
        SAPHIR--Judy. An indomitable lady whose passion and philantropy made a real difference in the world. Our condolences and love to those whose tireless support enabled her to do it--to Dick, Steven and Annie, Megan and Scott, Judy's grand army of friends and co-workers, and of course, Missy. Bob Lape Joanna Pruess
        SAPHIR--Judith. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the loss of our longtime and devoted member, Judith Saphir. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Dr. Richard Saphir; their son, Steven; and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D. Senior Rabbi Nancy Solomon, President
        SAPHIR--Judith. BSM Pediatrics, P.C. mourns the loss of Judy, beloved wife of our senior partner Richard. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her loving husband Richard and to her son Steven, his wife Annette and their children Megan and Scott. Doctors and Staff BSM Pediatrics, P.C.
        SAPHIR--Judith. The Mount Sinai Children's Center Foundation is saddened by the loss of Judy, a founding Board member. Our deepest sympathy to Dr. Richard Saphir and their familiy. The Mount Sinai Children's Center Foundation Vicki and Michael Gross
        SAPHIR--Judith. Our hearts go out to Judy's family. We will remember her as a dear friend and devoted wife, mother and grandmother. She always thought of others rather than thinking of herself. The Monti Family
        SAPHIR--Judith. Our sincere condolences to Dr. Saphir and family. Judy embodied caring, courage and incredible strength. She touched our lives and will be truly missed. The Mirante/Baker Family
        SAPHIR--Judith. You let me into your heart, your family, and your life's work. My love and admiration for you knows no bounds. Phyllis Luxemburg
        SAPHIR--Judith. Our deepest sympathy goes out to Richard and his family for the loss of Judy. We will miss her. The Peltzman-Stern Family
        SAPHIR--Judith. We are devastated at the loss of beloved Judy. We mourn with the family. Cecile, Claudia and Hal
      