
        FRIEDMAN--Frances Karo. Of Lauderhill, FL, Stamford, CT, and New York, NY died June 24, 2005, at the age of 84 at her New York home following a short illness. Born in New York, Frances Federman, daughter of Ida and Benjamin Federman; survived by her adoring husband, retired prominent physician Dr. Oscar H. Friedman; daughters Helen Seplowitz of Stamford, CT and Anita Karo of Langhorn, PA; grandsons Kevin and Eric Seplowitz. Predeceasing Frances was her brother Samuel and first husband, Frank Karo, who along with his sisters founded L&B Karo, a leading millinery business that furnished high styled ladies hats to many of America's finest department stores. As a representative of the family business, Frances was always stylishly and immaculately dressed from hat to toe and she enjoyed the pleasures of beautiful clothing, which she wore superbly. The family's artistic genes were passed on to Helen, an artist whose sculpture and photographic works can be found on display in Fairfield and Westchester counties. Eric is also a professional photographer. Kevin has carried on the family entrepreneurial spirit by creating a food and beverage research company to provide a higher standard of living for those suffering with celiac disease. Frances was a generous, sensitive, caring and loving woman, sympathetic to all causes for the underprivileged and needy. She shared generously with a significant number of charities including, Woods School, Langhorn, PA; Rabbi Jacob Joseph School; Cong. Agudath Sholom; Mt. Sinai Medical Center; Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital; Baylor University College of Medicine; UJF. Services will be held at Congregation Agudath Sholom on Sunday, June 26th at 12Noon. Burial will follow at Agudath Sholom Cemetery in Stamford. Shiva will follow the burial at the Seplowitz home, 79 Fawnfield Road, Stamford. Shiva will be observed Monday, June 27th from 3-9PM at 983 Park Avenue, apt 12C, NYC. In lieu of flowers contributions to any charity listed above would be appreciated.
      