
        COONEY--John M. John Mason Cooney succumbed to cancer on June 13, 2005. He was 71 years old. This brought to a close a life devoted to education and community service, including 30 years of distinguished service at Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. Cooney was born in 1933 and raised in McDowell County, West Virginia, where his father and grandfather were involved in the coal industry. Graduating from Elkhorn High School as class president, he continued his education in 1952 at the McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tennessee, one of the nation's top college preparatory schools. Cooney obtained his bachelor's degree from Marshall University in 1956, studying philosophy and Greek. He then attended Princeton Theological Seminary from 1956-1958 and transferred to Harvard University, where he received his divinity degree (theology) in 1959. In 1962, he completed credits for his doctoral degree in political science at Rutgers University. Cooney's early professional years were spent in the church. He served as minister of the Fairmount Presbyterian Church in Califon, New Jersey, from 1959-1966. He was a member of Newton Presbytery of the Presbyterian Church (honorably retired). Cooney was the organizing chairman of the Northwest New Jersey Community Action Program, the antipoverty agency still serving Hunterdon, Warren, and Sussex counties. He then worked for New Jersey Governors Hughes and Cahill in the Department of Community Affairs, in the areas of education and youth. Among his many duties, he served Governor Cahill as staff director for the White House Conference on Children and Youth (1969-1972), assembling and directing the New Jersey committee that included, among others, future New Jersey Governor and 9/ 11 Commission Chair Thomas Kean. In 1972, Cooney began work representing Rutgers University in the local community and as a liaison to the state government, local government and community organizations, and coordinating visits of national and world dignitaries while serving Rutgers University President Edward J. Bloustein. He continued to serve in that role under Bloustein's successor, Francis L. Lawrence. Cooney retired from that position in 2002. At Rutgers, Cooney administered programs that brought distinguished visitors to the institution: the Victoria Program in Contemporary Issues, the Clifford P. Case Fellowship Program, Senator Bill Bradley student programs, and the Holland Program on Ethics in Government. Among the visitors were former Presidents Gerald Ford and Bill Clinton, former Speaker of the House Thomas Tip-O'Neill, and former Vice President Walter Mondale. He coordinated the royal visits of Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands and the Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko of Japan. Cooney also administered the University's Kirkpatrick Chapel for many years. He established the first day care program for the children of faculty, staff and community residents. The Senior Citizen Audit Program was administered by his office. Cooney held leadership positions in a number of community agencies, including the United Way of Central New Jersey, serving as its President and on its Board of Directors. His office at Rutgers was also responsible for organizing and directing the University's annual drive for its combinedcharities campaign. He served on the boards of: the Raritan-Millstone Heritage Alliance; the Business and Education Partnership of Somerset/Hunterdon counties; the New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Blindness; the New Jersey Teen Arts Festival; New Jersey Special Olympics, the Boonton Hospice; and the Friends of New Jersey Public Television as president from 1968-1972. On his retirement from Rutgers, Cooney was elected to the Board of Trustees of the Family and Community Services program for Somerset County, to the Board of Trustees of Centenary College, and to the Board of Directors for the Harvard Divinity School Alumni Advisory Council. Cooney is survived by his wife of 50 years, Nancy Evans, and by his four children: James M. Cooney (wife Myriam, and his daughter Nancy), Carolyn LaMontagne (husband Robert, daughter Erin, son Evan), Christine Sullivan (husband Kenneth, sons Patrick and Kevin, daughters Kelly and Lauren), and Mark Cooney (wife Lisa, daughters Morgan and Margaret). Funeral arrangements are private and under the direction of the Branchburg Funeral Home, Inc., 910 US Highway 202 South, Branchburg, NJ. Memorial contributions may be made in John's memory to the Sondra Geier Hospice Fund c/o Somerset Hills Hospice, 12 Olcott Ave., Bernardsville, NJ, 07924 or the American Cancer Society, Somerset Unit, 600 1st Ave., Raritan, NJ, 08869. For more information or to send condolences, please visit, www. branchburgfuneralhome .com. A memorial service will be scheduled at a later date.
      