
        NADLER--Arch. With great sorrow, we announce the passing of Arch Nadler, on June 4, 2005. Born Aaron Nadler in Montreal, Quebec, Canada on April 11, 1924, to Samuel Nadler (from Bucharest, Romania ) and Clara Rubin (from Iasi, Romania), he came to the United States in 1955. An accomplished graphic artist, his first enterprise was a marketing and publicity firm, Arch Nadler Associates. He then established with Rober Larimer the New York advertising agency, Nadler and Larimer, Inc. It soon established itself as one of the major and innovative firms in the world, with additional offices in London, Paris and Bremen. Its clients included Faberge, Austin Nichols, Lionel Toys, New York State Lottery, and Conde Nast. He was the Chairman of the Board until his retirement in 1983. He married Sarah Shirley Friedmanin 1949, and their daughter Linden (now living in Jerusalem, Israel), was born in 1950. After a divorce, he married Nancy Sharon Hertz in 1957. They had three children: Steven (of Madison, WI); Lauren (of Wilton, CT); and David (of LLoyd Harbor, NY). He also had nine grandchildren: Rose and Ben Nadler (Madison); Cameron Nadler (Wilton); Caroline, Sydney and Savannah Nadler (Lloyd Harbor) and Eliezar Zev, Ariel and Rachel Stromberg (Jerusalem). He is also survived by his brother, Sidney Nadler. He was a loving and deeply beloved husband and father, and a devoted, generous, and doting grandfather. He was blessed with wisdom, a brilliantly dry sense of humor, quiet digity, and (something he tried to impart to his children) an unfailing sense of ''menschlicheit''. He never forgot his impoverished roots--he lost his father when he was 14, and worked to support his family--and his personal and professional success never clouded his sense of who he was and where he came from. May his memory be for a blessing. With love, from his children
        NADLER--Arch. He was my partner for twenty years at Nadler & Larimer, a New York advertising agency, which we sold in 1979. A tall man who exuded authority, Arch was an astute businessman, the account-management half of our partnership. But that didn't mean he would hesitate to offer his own ideas to me and others in the Creative Department. In fact it was his idea to employ athletes such as Joe Namath and Muhammad Ali as TV spokesmen for Faberge's Brut Cologne-a successful campaign that was among the first of its kind to feature sports celebrities. Arch came from a humble background and never outgrew his simple tastes. Once, returning from a lavish client luncheon, we passed a sidewalk hotdog stand. He said, ''I would rather have had lunch there.'' What started as friendship at the Benton & Bowles agency turned into a long and fruitful partnership with many precious memories. I offer condolences to Arch's wife, Nancy, and family. Bob Larimer
      