
        BRUCKNER--Jack L. On Saturday evening June 11, 2005, Jack died peacefully at his home in Upper Brookville, Long Island, New York. He was 86 years old, and fought valiantly with Alzheimer's disease, macular degeneration, and cancer. Beloved and devoted husband of Marion Duke Johnson, his wife of 64 years. Loving and supportive father of Marion Duke ''Dukie'' Baxter, Laurie Bastis, and the late Betsey Reicherter. Father-in-law to Jason Bastis and the late Bob Reicherter. Loving and inspiring grandfather ''Gramps'' of Kevin and Todd Baxter; Andrew, Michael and John Reicherter; and Matthew Bastis. Jack graduated from Duke University with a BA degree in 1942. A lieutenant in the US Navy, he received three citations for his significant role in the Sicily, Salerno, Anzio, and DDay invasions of WWII. Lieutenant Bruckner was also cited for being the first US Naval officer to set foot on European soil. Jack was a retired Vice President of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, and served on their Board of Directors from 1974-1977. Upon retirement, he served on the Board of Directors of Countrywide Financial Corporation. Other boards on which he served included North Carolina Outward Bound from 1981-1986, Bucknell University, and Friends Academy. Additionally, in 1978, the Board of Trustees of Duke University designated Jack as President's Associate to Terry Sanford. This title conferred the right and responsibility of representing the President of Duke University to all constituencies. He also served for 12 years on the vestry at Christ Episcopal Church in Manhasset. His strength, courage, and determination were unyielding and his great love of family, friends, and life touched and taught us all. A Memorial Service to celebrate Jack's life will be held at Christ Episcopal Church, 1355 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, NY on Wednesday, June 29 at 11AM. In lieu of flowers, the family requests memorial gifts be made in honor of Jack L. Bruckner to Hospice Care Network, 99 Sunnyside Blvd, Woodbury, NY 11797; or Long Island Alzheimer's Foundation, 5 Channel Drive, Port Washington, NY 11050; or American Cancer Society, 6800 Jericho Turnpike, Suite 200 West, Syosset, NY 11791.
      