
        NOWAK--Amram. Died suddenly June 6, 2005. Mr. Nowak was President and Creative Director of Amram Nowak Associates, the film production company which he founded in 1965. Mr. Nowak produced, directed or wrote over two hundred documentary and dramatic films on a wide variety of subjects ranging from the breakdown of tribal society in Tanzania to American country music, as well as two feature films and several television specials. His films have won over one hundred awards from virtually every major film festival in the world. His most recent films were the two part documentary: ''They Came For Good: A History of The Jews In The United States,'' completed in collaboration with the help of his late wife, Manya Starr. In 1986, Mr. Nowak directed ''Isaac In America,'' an hour long documentary on Isaac Bashevis Singer for ''The American Masters' Series'' for PBS. ''Isaac In America'' was nominated for an Academy Award for best documentary feature in 1986. In 1984 Mr. Nowak directed a one hour dramatization of a Singer short story entitled: ''The Cafeteria'' for ''The American Playhouse Series'' for PBS. It was selected by the MacArthur Foundation as one of the fifty best programs of any kind produced by PBS in that decade. Amram Nowak's first feature film was ''King Murray,'' an innovative combination of dramatic and documentary film techniques about an insurance salesman on a gambling junket to Las Vegas. ''King Murray'' was an official U.S. entry in the Cannes Film Festival. John O'Connor, then, the film critic for The Wall Street Journal selected ''King Murray'' as one of the ten best features films of 1969. In a totally different vein, Mr. Nowak's second feature film was a documentary called ''The Nashville Sound,''starring Johnny Cash, Loretta Lynn, and Dolly Parton. He began his career in the theatre working with several regional companies in the U.S., and The Chamber Theatre of Tel Aviv. He subsequently spent seven years with CBS TV, ABC TV, and NET as a Producer/Director. Mr. Nowak received a BA degree in literature from The City College of New York, and an MA degree in drama from Syracuse University. He was the proud and loving father of Steven, Jeremy, and Mara, and the adoring grandfather to Miranda, Arielle, Cordelia, and Jami. He is also survived by his stepsons, Adam Starr, and Barnaby Starr, and his step grandchildren, Robin, Zachary, Brittany, Thomas, Lucas, by his life partner, Vivian Lowell, and by his former wife, Bernice Novak. Services Thursday June 9, 2005 at 10 A.M. at The Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue.
      