
        SEALY--Palmer Jr. Passed away on June 2, 2005, after a courageous four year battle with cancer at his home in Brookville, NY. He was 69 years old. Palmer was a loving and dedicated husband to Polly, his wife of 42 years; to his children Chip, Dave and Jeff; to his daughters-in-law Sheila, Sarah and Cindy, and his grandchildren Palmer, Regan, Matthew, Charlie, Clay, J.P., Lucas, James and Sam. Palmer would certainly describe his family as the crowning achievement in what was a very rich life. Palmer worked as a commercial real estate broker for over 30 years, as a result of his successes as a promotional broker the Uris Buildings Corporation asked the Cross and Brown Company to name he and his partner David Hoffman as rental agents for 300 and 320 Park Ave. Over the years he would serve in that capacity for many buildings, including 3,90, 200, 300, 320 and 410 on Park Ave. alone. Many of the Fortune 500 companies found their headquarters offices through his efforts, the likes of which included National Broadcasting Company (NBC) and International Paper. Palmer was Executive Vice President and served on the Board of Directors for the Cross & Brown Company. Later in his career, he was also a founding member of Sealy, Hoffman & Sheehan, Inc. Palmer graduated from the Millbrook School in 1954, and Brown University in 1958, where he received his BA in history, beginning what would be a lifetime passion for US history. He toured Civil War battle sites with friends, and explored the genealogy which dated back to Walter Palmer, settler of Stonington, CT, in 1652. Following Brown, Palmer served his country as a first lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps for two years. Palmer also pursued a lifelong passion for tennis, something passed to him from his father Palmer Sealy Sr., a USTA doubles finalist. He ran the West Side Tennis Club Junior Program during the 1960's introducing many young, promising players to the game, most notably Vitas Gerulaitis, who later went on to win the Australian Open. A memorial service will he held 11 AM, on Saturday, June 11, 2005, at the Brookville Reformed Church, Brookville, NY. Further information, Whitting Funeral Home, 300 Glen Cove Ave., Glen Head, NY. In lieu of flowers the families wish all donations to go to Camp Joslin Scholarship Fund, Joslin Diabetes Center, 1 Joslin Pl., Boston, MA 02215.
      