
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Passed away on June 21, 2005. Beloved wife and husband. Devoted parents of Marjorie and Mark Gershwind, and Mitchell and Kathy Jacobson. Cherished grandparents of Erik and Jackie Gershwind and Stacey and Michael Bennett and Joshua Jacobson. Loving great grandparents of Betsey and Bradley Bennett and Sophie and Jake Gershwind. Services Wednesday 1 PM at Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, N.Y.
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Mom and Dad, rest in peace together where you belong. We love you with all our hearts and will think of you everyday for the rest of our lives. Love and millions of kisses, Margie and Mark
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Mom and Dad, you can rest in peace knowing that you were great parents, inspirational role models and loved by all your family. You will be in our hearts forever and ever. Love, Mitchell, Kathy and Joshua
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Nanny and Poppa, you were second parents to all of us. Your love, devotion and wisdom was and always will be a constant in our lives. Love, Erik, Stacey and Joshua
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of Bernice and Sidney Jacobson, beloved leaders and friends. Bernice and Sidney were lifelong supporters of the Jewish community who held many significant positions at UJAFederation, including service on our Board of Directors. Their enthusiastic leadership was evident in their boundless dedication to the Sid Jacobson Jewish Community Center and the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System. Earning enormous respect for their generosity and warmth, they strengthened our ability to serve those in need, making an indelible impact on millions of lives in New York, Israel, and around the globe. Bernice and Sidney's exceptional concern for humanitarian causes and overwhelming spirit of klal Yisrael has ensured their legacy for generations. We extend our deepest sympathies to their children: Marjorie, and her husband Dr. Mark Gershwind; Mitchell, and his wife Kathy; to their grandchildren; to their great grandchildren; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Our hearts are broken for our dear friends, Margie and Mark, and their wonderful children. May your beautiful parents rest at peace together in one anothers arms and may their love for one another be an inspiration to you and bring you peace and comfort. All our love Brenda and Bob
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Your lives were an exquisite lesson in love, compassion and caring. Now there are two more angels in Heaven. May their memory forever be an inspiration to Margie and Mitchell and their beautiful families. Muriel and Arnold Shapiro
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sid. We will miss good times together and extend heartfelt condolences to Margie and Mark, Cathy and Mitchell and all the grandchildren and great grandchildren. With all our love, Bob and Lois Bennett Yaffe
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sid. We will miss you, our dear sweet friends--your warmth, kindness, beauty, generosity and love enriched our lives. We loved you. Now rest in peace. Shoshanna and David Wingate
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Your passing has left a deep void in our lives. We always treasured your steadfast, beautiful friendship. We'll miss you always. Elaine and Arthur H. Bienenstock
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. You inspired us with your love, generosity and devotion to your family. Our hearts are heavy and our sincerest condolences are with our dearest friends. Love, Diane and Margot
        JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Your love for each other is an inspiration for us all. May you rest in peace together forever. Sandra and Donald Yellin
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice, whose generosity and philanthropy have benefited countless indiviuals in our community. The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of the Sid Jacobson Jewish Community Center mourns your passing and wish to extend our heartfelt condolences to the Gershwind and Jacobson families--their children, Marjorie and Mark Gershwind, and Mitchell and Kathy Jacobson; grandchildren Erik and Jackie Gershwind, and Stacey and Michael Bennett, and Joshua Jacobson; and great grandchildren Betsey and Bradley Bennett, and Sophie and Jake Gershwind. Sid and Bernice were a vital part of our identity and our activities at the JCC, and they are irreplaceable in our hearts and in our community. May your memory be a blessing and a comfort to your family. Board of Directors, Staff and Volunteers Sid Jacobson Jewish Community Center
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of our esteemed members, Sidney and Bernice Jacobson. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to their daughter and son-in-law, Marjorie and Mark Gershwind; son and daughter-in-law, Mitchell and Kathy Jacobson; grandson and his wife, Erik and Jackie Gershwind; granddaughter and her husband, Stacey and Michael Bennett, and to the entire family. Mark Claster, President Roger Blumencranz, Secy.
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County mark with great sadness the passing of Bernice and Sidney Jacobson, pillars of Jewish life in the greater Palm Beaches. Their unwavering support of the Jewish people and our community will forever serve as a valued inspiration and example to all who knew and loved them and for generations to come. We extend our deepest sympathies to their family. Judith A. Levy, President Jeffrey L. Klein, CEO
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. The Board of Directors and Staff of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) mourn the loss of Bernice and Sidney Jacobson. Bernice and Sidney were long-time supporters of AIPAC and of the pro-Israel movement in America. They were committed political activists who worked hard to educate Members of Congress about the mutual benefits of the U.S.-Israel relationship, and who understood the critical importance of grassroots political activism. Their leadership and friendship will be sorely missed.
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. We offer our heartfelt condolences to New YorkPresbyterian Hospital Trustee Mitchell Jacobson on the loss of his parents Sidney and Bernice Jacobson. Our thoughts are with the Jacobson and Gershwind families. John J. Mack, Chairman, Board of Trustees Dr. Herbert Pardes, President & CEO NY-Presbyterian Hospital
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. The Holtz family and the late Irving Holtz wish to express their deepest sympathy to the Jacobson and Gershwin families on the loss of Sid and Bernice Jacobson. They were lifelong friends with whom we have shared many happy and special times together across generations. They will always be in our hearts, thoughts and prayers.
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. To our dearest friends, Kathy, Mitchell and Joshua. We feel your loss. We share your pain. We know your love and treasured memories will comfort you at this time. We love you. Maggie, Brad, Ryan, Sean and CJ.
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice, you will always be remembered as the ''grand man and great lady'' of our time. We were privileged to have known you and to have shared our families together. Irma and Bernard Howard and Family
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. To our dear friends Mitch and Kathy, we share your loss and honor the love of Sid and Bernice. During good times and tough times, always friends for life. Jon, Steven and Vinny
        JACOBSON--Sidney and Bernice. We mourn the passing of Sidney and Bernice. Our sincerest condolences to Margie, Mark, Kathy, Mitchell and their families. The Howard Family
      