
        LINDSAY--James K., Esq. 85, retired NYC attorney and life long advocate for the disadvantaged died in Amherst, MA on May 30, 2005. He was the son of Sadie Gombrich (the French actress Claudine LeDuc) and Robert Kenneth Lindsay, a salesman, and was born in Winnipeg, Alberta. In spite of an itinerant childhood, and the early loss of his father, Mr. Lindsay distinguished himself academically at a very young age and graduated first in his class from Ridley College in St. Catherines, Ontario at the age of 14. He graduated from Oberlin College at the age of 18, and from the University of Michigan Law School at the age of 21 where he served on the Law Review. Mr. Lindsay married Priscilla Shepherd, a fellow alumna of Oberlin College, in 1942, and raised a family with her. Early in his corporate law career he worked for Republic Aircraft, Hayden Chemical Corp., and the Manhattan law firm of Fulton, Duncan, and Halley. He became vice president of Tenneco, Inc. He then established his own law practice. Mr. Lindsay fought actively for social justice in many arenas. He served on the board of directors of the New York City Mission Society for 12 years and was its president for six years. He was an advocate for low-income housing and served on the Fair Housing Commission of Briarcliff, NY. He was an active Episcopalian who taught Sunday school and served on the vestry of All Saint's Church, Briarcliff, NY. He was an avid crossword puzzle fan, who was famous in his family for completing the daily NY Times puzzle on his commuter train as it traveled nonstop between 125th St and Grand Central Station. After the death of Priscilla in 1972 he married Shirley Blois Brown, a musician and teacher who was embraced by his family. Mr. Lindsay retired to Savannah, Georgia where he initiated a volunteer program at Georgia Legal Services and was a moving force coordinating legal services, domestic violence advocates, and the police in the establishment of a Safe Shelter for battered and abused women and their children. Mr. Lindsay was honored by a 'Jim Lindsay Day' there for his efforts in 2002 when the shelter opened its new facility. After suffering several strokes he moved to Jacksonville, FL where he lived until his wife died in 2004. He is survived by his brother Dennis J. Lindsay, Esq, of Portland, OR; three children from his first marriage: Rev. Susan Tobias of Lower Cabot, VT; R. Kenneth Lindsay of Amherst, MA; Dr. Pippi Ellison of Newton, MA; six grandchildren, one greatgrandchild, and eight nephews and nieces. Contributions in his name may be made to the endowment fund for Safe Shelter at The Savannah Community Foundation, 7393 Hodgson Memorial, suite 204, Savannah, GA. 31406. A memorial gathering in his honor will be held in Amherst, MA. on Monday June 27th at the Lord Jeffery Inn from 12:30-2:30 PM.
      