
        COLE -- Sylvan, 1918 - 2005. With profound sorrow, the International Fine Print Dealers Association (IFPDA) announces the passing of esteemed member, Sylvan Cole, on Saturday, June 4th, 2005. A highly respected art dealer and author, he was an expert in American prints and printmakers. As director and president of Associated American Artists from 1958-1983 and later as director of the Sylvan Cole Gallery, 1984-2005, he published thousands of prints by American artists and was a leading force in promoting American prints of the 20th century. He was a founding member and past president of the IFPDA, board member of the Art Dealers Association of America and International Graphic Arts Foundation, and advisory member of the Print Council of America. He served his country during WWII until his discharge in 1946 with the rank of Major. With a warm heart and generous spirit, Sylvan shared his expertise freely over the years, both as a mentor to dozens of professionals now occupying positions of note in the art field, and as a trusted advisor to print curators and collectors alike. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Mary; to his three children; and to the entire family.
        COLE--Sylvan. The Advisory Council and the staff of the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, Cornell University, deeply mourn the passing of Sylvan Cole. A devoted member of the Council and supporter of the Museum, he was the dean of American print dealers; for many decades, he encouraged the awareness of twentieth century prints and helped grow the collections of many museums and many private individuals. A born raconteur, he was beloved not just by the generations of printmakers he championed but also by his many colleagues in the art world. All of us at the Johnson Museum send our deepest sympathy to Mary Cole and the other members of his family.
        COLE--Sylvan. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their colleague, a founding member and former ADAA director. His knowledge made him a great dealer, preeminent in the print field. His warmth and generosity made him many good friends and admirers. Our condolences to his wife, Mary, and his children, James, Robert and Nancy. Richard Solomon, President Gilbert S. Edelson, Admin. VP
      