
        PIRANI--Conrad L., M.D. The Department of Pathology of Columbia University notes with sadness the passing of Conrad Levi Pirani, M.D., an internationally recognized expert in diseases of the kidney, who died of heart failure at age 90 on May 28 in Pittsfield, Mass. Dr. Pirani, who founded Columbia's Renal Pathology Laboratory in 1973, was one of the most influential pathologists of his day. His work forged the transition from autopsy-based studies of the kidney to modern biopsybased pathologic interpretation. The semiquantitative method he developed for evaluating needle biopsies of the kidney is not only essential to establish an accurate diagnosis, but also provides valuable clinical information about disease activity and reversibility that has helped guide optimal therapy. His systematic approach has been instrumental in describing for the first time the defining features of many major renal diseases. Dr. Pirani was born in Pisa, Italy, and attended medical school in Italy. Because of racial laws enacted by the Mussolini government, he immigrated to the United States in 1939. His early career in pathology was at the University of Illinois, and he was appointed chairman of pathology at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago in 1965. In 1973, he came to Columbia University Medical Center as professor of pathology and director of the newly created Renal Pathology Laboratory. He retired from that position in 1985, becoming professor emeritus of pathology. Dr. Pirani lectured widely and published more than 200 research papers and textbook chapters over a 30year period. He is best known for his seminal observations on the clinical-pathologic features of lupus nephritis, diabetic nephropathy, poststreptococcal glomerulonephritis, and myeloma-related renal disease, which helped form the basis of our modern understanding. In 1977, he founded the course ''Renal Biopsy in Medical Diseases of the Kidney,'' which is the longest-running continuing medical education course in the history of Columbia University Medical Center. Lectures in his name are given every year at Columbia and at the Mario Negri Institute for Renal Research in Bergamo, Italy. In 1987, he received the prestigious John Peters Award of the American Society of Nephrology for his lifetime contributions. Dr. Pirani is survived by his wife Luciana of Lenox, Mass.; three children, Barbara Alberts-Pirani of Bolton, Mass., Sylvia of Albany, N.Y., and Robert of Manhattan; and five grandchildren. Michael L. Shelanski, M.D., Ph.D. Vivette D. D'Agati, M.D. Department of Pathology Columbia University
      