
        CORCORAN--Tommy. Dear Tommy, thank you for 35 years of wonderful friendship. A prized visit with you, via whatever, was always hilarious and insightful. Although never simple, you were simply the best! As I grieve, I especially extend deepest sympathy to your dear friends Joan and Teddy, whose love and devotion were extraordinary and exemplary. You will always be a part of me. With love and gratitude Jim Milford
        CORCORAN--Tommy. A legacy of laughter and love. We never laughed so hard as when we were with you. We never cried so hard as when we lost you. The King of Kind, though you denied it. May the angels protect you and Heaven accept you. Our Prince Precious. Edwina, Kate, Paul, Amanda and Elizabeth Anderson
        CORCORAN -- Tommy. A unique gentlemen, TC was the center in the wheel of devoted friends carried forward by his hilarious wit, enduring wisdom and careful advice. Thank you sweet TC and beloved uncle Tommy. We'll talk! Love from the Tundra! Anita Tiburzi-Johnson & James W. Johnson III
        CORCORAN--Tommy. The kindest, most generous, and wonderful friend, with that famous sense of humor. You will live on forever through all those ''Tommy'' stories already resounding from dinner table to dinner table. Mallory Hathaway David Patridge
        CORCORAN--Thomas. We all loved you deeply and you gave everyone you ever met a wonderful ride through life. We're the lucky ones to have known you but the unfortunate ones to be left without you. Love, Pete Hathaway
        CORCORAN--Tommy. I will miss your laughter, your humor and your friendship. What a loss to all those who knew you. Love forever, Merle Reskin
        CORCORAN--Tommy. You will be greatly missed for your deep, loyal friendship, quick wit, and sense of humor. You are the gold standard for friendship. Muffie Cunningham
        CORCORAN--Thomas. The lights have dimmed, but memories of 58 years of your friendship, love and hilarity are forever. Nobody did it better. Bunny (Hasha) and the girls
        CORCORAN -- Tommy. We will miss you and your wonderful sense of humor! Frienships and love never die. Love, Deborah Norville, and Karl Wellner
        CORCORAN--Tommy. ''...of friends who have come and gone, how happy they are I cannot know, but happy am I who loved them so.'' Joe Cicio
        CORCORAN--Tommy. Our lives will not be the same without your mischievous smile and humor. J.T. Christensen
        CORCORAN -- Tommy. We will alway think of you. You were so special to all of us. Sonia and Stuart Leventhal and family
        CORCORAN--Tom. Devoted, funny, compassionate and dearest of friends. You will be forever missed. Carlene and Ed
        CORCORAN--Tommy. I will miss your wonderful wit and debonair way. You will remain in my heart always. Roberta L.
        CORCORAN--Thomas. You introduced us. You were our family. How lucky were we! Goodbye precious friend. Marilyn and George
        CORCORAN--Thomas. May 25, 1937--June 13, 2005. Dear friend, you shall be missed. Joan, Melissa and Cooper
        CORCORAN--Tommy was a wonderful true-blue friend and will be sorely missed. Fernanda and Kirk
        CORCORAN--Tommy, your friendship was a treasured joy of my life. Laura Mako
        CORCORAN--Thomas. Words cannot express how much I will miss you. I love you, Teddy
        CORCORAN--Tommy. Gracious spirit that will be missed. Pittman Shay
      