
        FONTANA--Vincent J., M.D. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The New York Foundling and the Vincent J. Fontana Center for Child Protection mourn the sudden passing of our esteemed and beloved Medical Director and Pediatrician-in-Chief, Dr. Vincent J. Fontana. During his 43 year career at The Foundling, Dr. Fontana fought tirelessly for the rights and protection of mistreated children. Following his groundbreaking article, ''The Maltreatment Syndrome in Children,'' first published in The New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Fontana authored over 150 scientific publications and texts, including, ''Save the Family, Save the Child'' and ''Somewhere a Child is Crying,'' texts which have had a profound influence on the field of child abuse prevention. The Crisis Nursery/Family Center that Dr. Fontana established at The Foundling in 1972 continues as a national model as an ''island of safety for at risk families.'' With the opening of the Fontana Center on Christopher Street in November 2004, we are ensured that his legacy of building public awareness, advancing research, and training professionals in the field of child abuse prevention will endure. We extend our deepest sympathies to his brother and sister and large extended family. Funeral Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral Monday, July 11 at 10:30AM. Visitation Friday July 8 and Saturday July 9, 2-4PM and 7-9PM at O.B. Davis Inc. Funeral Homes, Port Jefferson Station NY(1-800-464-0360). Dr. Fontana's family has requested that in lieu of flowers, gifts be sent to the Vincent J. Fontana Center for Child Protection C/O the New York Foundling, 590 Avenue of the Americas, NY 10011. William F. Baccaglini, Jr. Executive Director Kenneth R. Horner Chairman Sr. Carol A. Barnes Former Chairperson
        FONTANA--Dr. Vincent J. The Torah tells us that we must be charitable and share our wealth with the stranger, the orphan, the widow and the poor. Dr. Vincent Fontana, our good friend and wonderful neighbor, taught us not only how to give but to always give thanks to those who do, so as to perpetuate the mitzvah of tzedakah. Dr. Fontana was an inspiration to all of us. His passing is our heartfelt loss. Christmas in Florida will never be the same. All our love. The Phillips Family
        FONTANA--Vincent J. Staff of the Frances L. Loeb Child Protection & Development Center of Bellevue Hospital mourns the passing of a mentor and advocate for children. Margaret McHugh, MD
      