
        Van AMBURG--Dr. James E. A leading educator in independent schools died on Tuesday, July 26, 2005. He was 59 years old. The cause of death was a cerebral hemorrhage, his wife, Penelope Van Amburg, said. Dr. Van Amburg was the Head of Windward School in White Plains, New York since 1999. Windward is a school for students with language-based learning disabilities. As one of the seminal figures in independent school education, Dr. Van Amburg was educated at Dartmouth College where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in English with honors and was a Choate Scholar. He attended Columbia University earning a Master of Arts degree in Comparative Literature and was recognized as a University Fellow. His Doctorate in Education was received from Stanford University in Palo Alto, California. ''Dr. VA'' as he was widely known, touched the lives of countless children in hiscareer. From 1984 to 1998, Dr. Van Amburg was the Head of Dwight Englewood School in Englewood, New Jersey. Prior to that he was Director of the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools in Chicago, Illinois, and Superintendent of Schools for The Carlisle School District in Massachusetts. He served as President of the Concord Massachusetts Special Education Collaborative. This position ignited an undying dedication to serve children with special needs. Dr. Van Amburg was committed to making independent education accessible to children who could not otherwise afford it. As a founding trustee of New Jersey S.E.E.D.S., (Scholars Educators Excellence Dedication Success), he was instrumental in identifying and placing economically disadvantaged students throughout the state in independent schools. He also served as Director of Project Broad Jump, an enrichment program for gifted students from East Harlem and the South Bronx. He served on the National Association of Independent Schools School Heads Advisory Committee helping shape policies and procedures for over 1,200 independent schools across the United States, Europe and Asia. Dr. Van Amburg was a member of the Education Advisory Council of the New York University Child Study Center. Due to Dr. Van Amburg's wide ranging expertise he was sought after as a board member for independent schools, serving at Kent Place School in Summit, New Jersey, Convent of the Sacred Heart in Greenwich, Connecticut, and Creative Montessori Learning Center in East Palo Alto, California. As a cutting edge researcher and powerful speaker, Dr. Van Amburg served as a lecturer in the University of Chicago's Department of Education and as an instructor at Teachers College Columbia University. Jim Van Amburg was a man of unsurpassed integrity with a vibrant personality filled with life and love for his family, friends and colleagues. His devotion for his dear wife Penelope, his son Noah, daughter-in-law Kim, and his son Nicholas and fiance Cornelia Henning, knew no bounds. He was a loving husband, father, son, and brother. He is remembered and cherished by his immediate family--his mother, Mary Catherine Hosack, his sisters, Kate Van Amburg and Christine Juskewycz and her husband Stephen, and his brother David Van Amburg-and his many friends, colleagues, as well as current and former students. The family has requested that memorial contributions be made to Windward School, 5 Windward Avenue, White Plains, New York 10605 (914-949-6968 x 2281) or to the Human Rights Campaign, 1640 Rhode Island Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20036 (202-628-4160). A memorial service will be held at Windward School, 40 West Red Oak Lane, White Plains, NY 10604 on Sunday, September 11, 2005 at 12:00 p.m.
        Van AMBURG--Dr. James E. We, the Board, faculty and staff, and the entire community of the Dwight-Englewood School, mourn the loss of a visionary educator, outstanding educational leader, and friend. From 1984-1998, Jim's leadership, as the school's headmaster, enhanced the school's reputation and national recognition for its curricular innovations such as the award-winning Senior Focus Program and the Upper School integrated Math/Science/Technology (MST) curriculum. During his tenure, Jim oversaw the merger with the Bede School, resulting in a preschool-12th grade program. His committment to diversity at DwightEnglewood and to the school's support of the New Jersey SEEDS program has changed many lives and strengthened our community. We will miss him, but his legacy lives on.
        Van AMBURG--James E., Ed.D. The faculty and staff of the NYU Child Study Center deeply mourn the loss of James E. Van Amburg, Ed.D., head of the Windward School, and one of the founding members of our Education Advisory Council. Jim was an inspirational educator, innovative collaborator and beloved colleague who was dedicated to breaking down the barriers faced by children with learning disabilities. We express our deepest sympathy to his wife Penny and sons Nick and Noah, and to the entire Windward School family. Brooke Garber Neidich Chair, Board of Directors Harold S. Koplewicz, M.D., Director NYU Child Study Center
      