
        ZANKEL--Arthur on July 28, 2005 at age 73. Founding partner of High Rise Capital Management, former director of Citigroup, former comanaging partner of First Manhattan Company, ViceChairman of Carnegie Hall and Trustee of Teachers College. Beloved husband of Judy. Loving father of Kenneth, Thomas, Mark and James. Cherished grandfather of Maura and Andrew. Devoted brother of Martin and Jeffrey. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday 11:30AM. Contributions in his memory may be made to Judy and Arthur Zankel Hall at Carnegie Hall 881 Seventh Avenue, NY, NY 10019.
        ZANKEL--Arthur. The Board and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the loss of beloved friend and dedicated Trustee Arthur Zankel, who died on July 28, 2005, at the age of 73. Arthur joined the Board of Carnegie Hall in 1992, and for more than a decade provided this institution with expert leadership and sound financial advice, overseeing, in particular, the steady growth of the Hall's endowment fund. Arthur's unbounded generosity to Carnegie Hall and his unstinting conviction that all lovers of great music should find a home here led to the opening of Judy and Arthur Zankel Hall in September 2003, a watershed event that has created the opportunity for Carnegie Hall to welcome truly diverse great music from around the globe, and provided a technological platform for outreach to new audiences worldwide. Arthur will be remembered fondly for his genuine warmth, his extraordinary humor, and his uncanny ability to make you feel that you were the most important person in the world. In Judy, he found an equally caring and gracious partner, who shared his deep love of music and his great passion for life. All of us at Carnegie Hall feel personally bereft by this sudden and unexpected loss. We express our heartfelt condolences to Judy, and to James, Kenneth, Mark, Thomas, and the extended family. Funeral services will be held at Frank E. Campbell-The Funeral Chapel at 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Sanford I. Weill Chairman of the Board
        ZANKEL--Arthur, financier and philanthropist. Mr. Zankel was a longtime trusted advisor who joined Citigroup's Board of Directors at its inception in 1986. His experience and judgment helped the company grow from Commercial Credit into Citigroup -- a journey of remarkable accomplishment. Mr. Zankel served Citigroup for more than a decade as chairman of the personnel and compensation committee. As a member of the succession subcommittee, he helped to assure the extraordinarily smooth transition to Citigroup's new CEO and COO structure in 2003. When Mr. Zankel retired from the Board in 2004, Citigroup Chairman Sanford I. Weill said, ''It's not an exaggeration to say that no company approaching our size and scale and depth of management talent has ever had such a successful, virtually seamless transition. Arthur deserves much of the credit.'' Citigroup appreciates his years of dedicated service and extends its condolences to his wife Judy, and sons, James, Mark, Thomas, and Kenneth. A memorial service will be held Sunday, July 31, 2005, at 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, New York, New York 10028; 212288-3500.
        ZANKEL--Arthur. Teachers College is deeply saddened at the passing of Arthur Zankel, Vice Chairman of our Board of Trustees. Arthur was a highly intelligent and caring man who never forgot his roots. He had a wonderful sense of humor and was a wise counselor who knew what he believed and never took himself too seriously. He was a good and caring friend. He was deeply in love with his wife, Judy, and his children. He was passionate about the need to improve the lives of the children who have the least. He gave generously of his time and resources to accomplish this. Our world is a better place and our lives have been enriched because Arthur Zankel walked among us. There can be no higher measure of success in life. His passing is a profound loss to all who were touched by his enthusiasm and generosity. Our thoughts are with his wife, Judy, and his four children. Arthur Levine, President John C. Hyland William D. Rueckert Co-Chairs Board of Trustees Teachers College Columbia University
        ZANKEL--Arthur. Our hearts are broken over the tragic loss of our dearest friend Arthur. With his wisdom, his warmth and compassion, his sensible advice and his outrageous sense of humor he was such an important part of our lives and our decisions. He was always there for us, ready to take ''a walk in the woods'' or ''a swim in the pool''. Our New Year's weekends will never be the same, but we are so lucky to have those treasured memories of our time together. Our hearts go out to his beloved wife Judy who made him so very happy in the eight years of their marriage. He also felt such pride and love for his boys Kenny, Tommy, Mark and Jimmy, their spouses and his grandchildren. Arthur, we already miss you, and we will never forget all you have been to us. May you rest in peace, dear friend. With all our love. Joan and Sandy Weill
        ZANKEL--Arthur. The Alan Greene family deeply mourns the loss of a great friend and confidant, Arthur Zankel. We send our heartfelt condolences to Judy, Kenneth, Tommy, Mark and James. We will miss him greatly. Helen, Alan, Jimmy and Michael
        ZANKEL--Arthur. The Board of the New York Foundation mourns the passing of our former trustee, Arthur Zankel. He was a dedicated trustee and a longtime supporter of the work of the New York Foundation.
        ZANKEL--Arthur. Our world will never be the same. Our love to Judy and the boys. Kathy & Freddy
      