
        FARBER--Leonard L. On July 28, 2005, Leonard died peacefully in his home in Fort Lauderdale, FL. He was 89 years old and for years fought Parkinson's Disease with great courage and success. Beloved and adoring husband of Antje, his wife of 30 years. Loving and supportive father of Lindy Linder, Peggy Farber, Felicia Farber Gervais and the late Robert Farber. Grandfather of Liza and Luke Linder, Ben and Sam Jacoff. Loving and supportive father - in - law to Charles S. Gervais, uncle to Eric W. Deckinger and so many more. Born in New York, Leonard skipped college as his father, Morris, died when Leonard was 17 years old and he had to work to support mother Clara and sister Norma. A non-commissioned officer in the U.S. Army, he received the Purple Heart and two Bronze Stars for his bravery and heroism during his duty in Europe during WWII. Leonard was Chairman of Leonard L. Farber Company, a shopping center development firm that had its first seeds of formation in the early 1950's when Leonard and a small group of visionaries began building suburban shopping centers. Leonard was a pioneer in this new industry and was the founding President of the International Council of Shopping Centers, which he helped found in 1957. By this year the organization, now known as the ''ICSC'', has 45,000 members worldwide, up from the approximate seven original members so many years ago. Over the course of his career, Leonard developed 45 shopping centers from California to Puerto Rico. Leonard received the Horatio Alger Award in 1985 and his Honorary Degree from Brandeis University in 1989. He also served as the Chairman of the Board of Trustees at Brandeis in the mid 1980's where he built the Leonard L. Farber Library and the Robert D. Farber University Archives. President Jimmy Carter appointed Leonard in 1979, to serve on the board of the National Endowment for the Arts. Leonard also was an active community leader, philanthropist and friend. He served over the years on many boards as well as being a donor to many organizations and causes, most notably, The Broward Center for the Performance Arts, The Ft. Lauderdale Symphony Orchestra, The Museum of Arts, The Boys and Girls Club of Ft. Lauderdale, Nova University, Brandeis University, and the National Conference of Christians and Jews. Leonard loved most to cruise on his boat Stoneface, with wife and ''1st mate'', Antje. He especially enjoyed their summers cruising up the Eastern seaboard to their home away from home, Nantucket Harbor. He was always happiest aboard Stoneface and hosting family and friends in ports in the Caribbean to Bar Harbor to Capri - and all points in between. Leonard's love of life, sensitivity to others, leadership position in so many roles, and determination served as a beacon and role model to all those lucky enough to know him. A Funeral will be held at 2:00p.m. on Sunday, July 31st, at Temple Kol Ami Emanu-El at 8200 Peters Road Plantation, Fla. In Lieu of flowers the family requests memorial gifts be made in Leonard?s honor to The National Parkinson's Foundation or the Massachusetts General Hospital Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease.
      