
        ROBIE--Edward Adams. 86, died peacefully in the early morning of July 11, 2005 surrounded by his family and loved ones at his Orono, ME home. Ed served on CARE's Executive Board from 1979-1996, acting as Chair from 1986-1989. He embraced CARE's mission of reducing poverty through empowerment, equity and sustainability. While with CARE, Ed led efforts to professionalize CARE's Human Resources, was instrumental in transforming CARE into an international organization, and increased corporate donorship by effectively communicating CARE's mission directly to executives. He and his wife, Jackie, traveled extensively supporting CARE projects and workers around the world. In 1953, Ed became Assistant to the President of the Equitable Life Assurance Society. As Senior Vice President, he pioneered in development of the human resources organization that became the model for industry. In 1982, he created the Group Move and Consulting Services Division of Merrill Lynch Relocation Management, and was President and Chief Operating Officer until 1985. He served as advisor to the Departments of Defense and Navy and on President Nixon's Committee on the Status of Women. He testified as a witness on behalf of industry at hearings of the Privacy Commission, Civil Rights Commission and the Joint Economic Committee. Ed served on numerous boards and committees, including Princeton University's Personnel Advisory Council, the Board of Education for the New Rochelle Public School System, the National Conference of Christians and Jews, the Board of the Harlem School of the Arts, the National Council of the Aging, the American Child Labor Committee and the New York Medical College and the Personnel Committee of the National YMCA. Ed graduated Phillips Academy Andover, Westminster School in England and Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. He was a Navy pilot from 1943-1945, receiving the Distinguished Flying Cross, Air Medal, Navy Commendation and Philippine Liberation Ribbons for his service in the South Pacific. He leaves his wife of 57 years, Jackie, and four children: Betty of Stamford, CT, Ted of Jupiter, FL, Ned of Newport, NC, and Jill of Old Town, ME. He leaves ten grandchildren: Robie, Adam, Theo, Chelsea, John, Teddy, Lissy, Tara, Paige and Anna. There will be a memorial service at the home of his son Ned, at Newport, NC, on August 13, 2005. In lieu of flowers, the family requests donations to CARE, Attn: Donor relations 151 Ellis St., Atlanta, GA 30303. For information: Birmingham Funeral Home 438 Main Street, Old Town, ME 04468 (207) 827-6369.
      