
        WIENER--Ronald Charles. Died July 29, 2005 of natural causes. Adored husband of Heather. Loving father to Kaitlin, Nicholas and MacGregor. Caring uncle to Elizabeth, Oliver, Annabel, Jackson, Kennedy, Hudson, Lucy, Ross and Brody. Beloved brother-in-law to Victoria, Cammie, Kimberly, Blake, Brooks and Hillary. His humor and strength will be missed by all those whose lives he touched. Funeral services will be held at 11:30 AM Monday, August 1st, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street.
        WIENER--Ronald C. NorthStar Capital Funds, LLC, mourns the sudden loss of our dear friend and partner, Ronald C. Wiener. We will always treasure his wisdom, humor and friendship, and admire him for his commitment to all his endeavors and his vast accomplishments. We share the sense of loss with his family, friends and associates. Ron left an indelible mark on all of us and everyone who had the privilege of knowing him. We all miss him greatly. Our deepest sympathy to the entire Wiener family. Lawrence Freitag Michael Zucker Andrew Berliner Anna Chen Mary Jo Maye Lee Peretzman Anthony Perrino Eric Ribner
        WIENER -- Ronald Charles. The Horace Mann School mourns with profound sorrow the sudden passing of our dear friend and parent, Ronald Wiener, adored husband of Heather and beloved father of our students, Kaitlin, MacGregor and Nicholas. A man of valor, wit, intelligence and wisdom, he was a good and compassionate friend to all. His generosity and loyalty to Horace Mann was boundless. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Heather, Kaitlin, Nicholas, MacGregor and the rest of his family. We will miss him greatly. Dr. Thomas Kelly, Head of School Robert J. Katz '65, Chair, Board of Trustees
        WIENER--Ron. Our hearts are broken with the loss of you, Ron. You stood for the thing in life that means the most--the love of family. Your bond of love with Heather, Kaitlin, Nick and MacGregor is something many people are never lucky enough to have. We feel privileged to have shared in that bond with our families. We will miss you greatly but we know you are smiling down now at your beautiful family who made you proud each day. With all our love, Nikki and Paul Ginsberg Helaine and Rick Gordon Andy and Frank Schiff
        WIENER--Ronald C. You inspired us with your passion for life and kept us laughing with your great sense of humor. You have been a mentor and true friend. We had so much more to do together. We will miss you. Our love and heartfelt condolences to Heather, Kaitlin, Nicholas and MacGregor. Larry, Debbie, Gabrielle, Robert and Julia
      