
        PREISS--Byron C. Colleagues of Byron Preiss, President and Publisher of ibooks and Byron Preiss Visual Publications express their profound grief and sense of loss following his tragic accidental death on Saturday, July 9. Under Byron's visionary leadership, all of us over the years have been privileged to participate in a challenging and exciting creative process. Every day, he came into the office the eternal optimist, and inspired us to create fresh and unique publishing and packaging projects--always to innovate, to experiment, to push the envelope. In meetings he was a dynamic presence, overflowing with ideas and lighting up tth room. Byron always looked for the best in everyone, and we responded by reaching further and deeper to live up to his high standards. He brought out the best in all of us. Our lives will be immeasurably diminished without him, but his vision will live on in our hearts and in our work. The Staff of Byron Preiss Visual Publications and ibooks
        PREISS--Byron C. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Byron C. Preiss, an esteemed leader of the New York Jewish community whose service and commitment as a chair of our Publishing Division strengthened our ability to serve those in need, profoundly impacting millions of lives around the globe. We extend our deepest sympathies to Byron's beloved wife, Sandi; to his children, Karah and Blaire; and to his entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        PREISS--Byron. The Executive Committee of the Publishing Division of UJA-Federation of New York is devastated by the tragic death of our Co-Chairman Byron Preiss. We grieve deeply for the loss to our community, to the world at large, and especially to his dear family--his wife Sandi, and two daughters, Karah and Blaire. Byron's extraordinary combination of warmth, brilliance, good humor and kindness was unmatched. We will miss him more than we can say.
        PREISS--Byron C. Sutton Place Synagogue sadly records the tragic passing of our longtime member, worshipper, Patron and Trustee. He shared with us his bright spirit and profound intellect, gifts we will always treasure. Heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Sandi, dear children Karah and Blaire and all of his loved ones. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, President
        PREISS--Byron C. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member, Friar Byron Preiss. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Services will be held today, 11AM at the Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 E. 51 St. Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec Dir Freddie Roman, Dean
        PREISS--Byron. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of our congregant, Byron Preiss, beloved wife of Sandi Mendelson, and extends deepest condolences to the family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President
        PREISS--Byron. No words could explain our deep friendship over these 40 years. Our time together was too short, but you will be in our hearts and thoughts forever. Mark, Emily, Alexandra & Brett Hochberg
        PREISS--Byron. The world is a better place because of our beloved friend's exceptional life, filled with generosity, love and humor. All our love to Sandi, Karah and Blaire. Rapaport Fagin Family
      