
        PREISS--Byron. Beloved and cherished husband of Sandi Mendelson, devoted and adored father to Karah and Blaire, devoted and loving son of the late Edmund and Pearl Preiss, caring son-inlaw of Norman and the late Belle Mendelson, admiring brother-in-law of Alan Mendelson, and revered uncle of Leslie and Erin Mendelson, died Saturday, July 9, at the age of 52, in an automobile accident. A compassionate, spiritual and charitable man, Byron was considered to be an important figure in the renaissance of illustrated books in America. He was President of Byron Preiss Visual Publications, Inc, and iBooks, Inc, working with numerous celebrities as well as esteemed science fiction authors Isaac Asimov, Ray Bradbury and Arthur C. Clark. A pioneer in multi-media and digital publishing, Byron's productions often pushed the boundaries of combining education, science and entertainment. A graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and of Stanford University's Film School Masters Program, Byron began his career in publishing, working with luminaries such as Harvey Kurtzman, Jim Steranko, Stan Lee and Ian Valentine. A true original, his humor, generosity and intelligence deeply affected every life he touched, in both his professional and personal relationships. Always first with a joke, a hug or a kind word, Byron's blend of wit and warmth was his signature. Byron was an extremely active New Yorker with membership in the Friars Club, a Trustee of the Sutton Place Synagogue, and Co-Chair of the UJA Federation of New York-Publishing Committee. He was a member of the Jewish Center of East Hampton and the South Fork Country Club. Byron's passions were many and varied: an avid collector of art, a longtime collector and devotee of comic and other graphic works, golf, traveling and music, but most of all, a kind, loving, nurturing and devoted son, husband, father and friend. Funeral services will be held at Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 E. 51st St, NYC, on Tuesday, July 12, at 11 am. The family requests that all donations be made to the United Jewish Federation of New York.
        PREISS--Byron. A friend of the first and finest order, a sartorial and literary figure extraordinaire, a collector of art, books and outrageous ties, will always be remembered for his generous and embracing nature. Funny and serious, creative and intellectual, Byron was known for his colorful wardrobe, his deep interest in science and history, his commitment to Jewish charitable organizations, and the daily whimsical calls and text messages he sent his closest friends. A 15 minute ride home with Byron could last hours, with numerous and serendipitous stops at bookstores, record stores, galleries, groceries, dry cleaners and pet groomers. Our world was enriched by his manifold gifts and his enormous energy and empathy. His profound presence in our daily lives will be forever missed and his memory forever cherished.
      