
        STEINBERG--Rabbi Paul M. The President, Board of Governors, administration, faculty and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion deeply mourn the death of our beloved colleague, Dr. Paul M. Steinberg. For 50 years, the name of Paul M. Steinberg has been synonymous with the College-Institute. His love, devotion and influence on the College have extended to each of our four campuses, Cincinnati, New York, Los Angeles and Jerusalem. He loved Judaism and the Jewish people. And in turn, people loved him -- the twinkle in his eyes, the laughter in his heart and the pleasure taken in a loyal friendship. Funeral services will take place on Monday, July 11, at Hebrew Union College, 1 West 4th Street, at 11 am. Contributions may be made to the Paul M. Steinberg Memorial Fund of HUC-JIR. May his dear wife, Trudy, and their children, Lonnie, Alan, their grandchildren, Lindsey, Michael, Alex, Haley, Joshua, Arielle and Natalie, be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, President Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
        STEINBERG--Rabbi Paul M. The Board and staff of DOROT mourn the loss of Rabbi Paul M. Steinberg. As a devoted member of DOROT's Honorary Board, Dr. Steinberg's compassionate voice served to champion the agency's mission to assist homebound and homeless Jewish elderly. To the very end, he remained a staunch and tireless advocate, and a wise conselor. We will sorely miss our most cherished friend. Our hearts go out to Trudy and the entire family at this sad time. Vivian Fenster Ehrlich Executive Director Paula Resnick, President Philip Silverman, President Joel Kazis, Chair Anne Heyman, Chair
        STEINBERG -- Paul. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases wish to express their sincere sympathy at the passing of Paul Steinberg, Ph.D., a loyal member of our Board for more than 20 years. Our heartfelt sorrow goes out to his wife, Trudy, and the entire family. William A. Perlmuth, Chairman of the Board David A. Dibner, CEO
        STEINBERG--Rabbi Paul M. It is with profound sorrow that the American Conference of Cantors records the passing of our colleague and friend, Rabbi Paul Steinberg. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Trudy, and the entire family. Cantor Richard Cohn, President, ACC Cantor Scott Colbert, Executive V.P., ACC
      