
        KRAMER--Lola. Beloved wife of Saul, mother of Kathie and Robert, grandmother of Charles, Nancie, James, Michael, David and Lesley, beloved great-grandmother of Justice. A life may end but the relationships endure. We loved you then, we love you now, we will love you always and forever.
        KRAMER--Lola. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply saddened by the loss of our adored Lola, who for more than four decades was a beloved member of our Einstein family. She brought a singular vitality and vision to her role as a member of the Boards of our National Women's Division and our Cancer Center. With her devoted husband, Saul, she was a generous supporter of the medical school. Among their many philanthropic endeavors, they endowed a professorial chair in molecular genetics and a laboratory for multiple sclerosis research as well as ongoing support for student loans. She will be greatly missed by everyone at Einstein, and, indeed, by all who knew her. We will miss her warm smile, her sparkling sense of humor and her selfless dedication to improving the human condition. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Saul, her beloved husband of 73 years, her daughter Dr. Kathie Kramer Rudy, her son Robert Kramer, and to all the members of the family. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Linda Altman, President National Women's Division Judy R. Rosenberg Chairwoman, Executive Committee
        KRAMER -- Lola. Yeshiva University extends heartfelt condolences to Dr. Kathie Kramer Rudy, a member of our Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology Board of Governors, on the passing of her beloved mother. A woman of valor, she and her devoted husband, Saul, YU Benefactors, dedicated a classroom at Ferkauf in honor of their daughter. Condolences also to Saul and to her son Robert Kramer, and to the entire family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees
        KRAMER--Lola. The Board of Directors of the United Hebrew Geriatric Center mourns the passing of Mrs. Lola Kramer, beloved wife of Mr. Saul Kramer. As a Past President and honorary member of our Board of Directors, Saul has been a devoted friend and ardent supporter for many years. Our heartfelt sympathy and prayers are extended to the bereaved family. Malcolm Lazarus, Chairman Rita C. Mabli, Exec. VP
        KRAMER--Lola. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our long time and cherished member, Lola Kramer. To Saul, her family, and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memories bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Rabbi David M. Posner, Robert A. Bernhard, Pres George Asch, Sec'y
        KRAMER -- Lola. Beloved Nene to Nancie, Dan and Justice. We will miss your dancing, the late night conversations, and the hotel soaps, but most of all, we will miss your presence in our lives. Your spirit will live forever in our hearts. May you keep on dancing. We love you.
        KRAMER--Lola. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Lola Kramer and extends sincere sympathy to her husband Saul and other members of her family. Sincerely, Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary
        KRAMER--Lola. Our hearts are saddened by the passing of our cherished friend Lola. Our heartfelt condolences to her beloved Saul and their children and grandchildren. Rita & Philip Rosen
      