
        MASUR--Allan A., 81. Died peacefully on Sunday July 17, surrounded by many of his loving friends and family. He graduated City College Phi Beta Kappa and received a law degree from Columbia University. He served in the Army in WWII. He practiced law all of his life in NYC. He played an instrumental role in founding Congregation Beth Simchat Torah in NYC and received their Chesed Award for Lifetime Achievement in May 1994. In 1973, he founded Congregation B'nai Olam in his beloved Fire Island Pines. Beginning with High Holy Days Services in his home, he has nurtured the Congregation into an important and self-sustaining community organization, which conducts annual services attended by hundreds of congregants from the Pines, Cherry Grove and surrounding communities. It was one of his proudest accomplishments. He is survived by his two sisters Irene Solomon and Gladys Hallerman; nieces Carole, Sheila, Barbara and nephew David; great nieces and nephews and a new great-great-nephew. Allan profoundly touched the lives of countless people. We will never forget this man who throughout his life gave all of his many friends unconditional love, caring and honest advice. He is forever etched in our lives and how we live them. Services today Tuesday, 11:45AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in Allan's memory to the Congregations he cared so deeply for would be appreciated.
        MASUR--Allan. Congregation B'nai Olam is forever grateful to its founder, its spirit and its Chairman. For over 40 years, Allan guided our Fire Island Pines community with his love and devotion, not only on the High Holidays, but throughout the year. His energy and his leadership will live on forever; he inspired all who shared his life. Congregation B'nai Olam Jon Wilner, President Laura Hartstein, V.P. Ward Auerbach, Barnett Brenin, Alan Brockman, Howard Goldfarb, Jack Lichtenstein, Edward Schwartz, Trustees
        MASUR--A. Allan. Our dear friend, we shall always miss you. Ruth and Mel Levy
      