
        BARNETT--Bernard. Died of cardio-respiratory failure on July 2nd in Sleepy Hollow, New York, at the age of 84. He graduated magna cum laude from CCNY in 1941 with a degree in accounting. He was with Apfel & Englander from 1941-1969, becoming a senior partner; with Seidman & Seidman from 1970-1986, where he was national director of tax practice; and he served as a senior consultant with BDO Seidman from 1987 to his death. An expert in estate planning, he served as president of the New York State Society of CPAs from 1976-7 and chaired several AICPA task forces on estate taxation, was a frequent speaker and writer on tax law and estate planning, and was a champion of estate tax reforms. He was born October 14, 1920, in New York City, minutes ahead of his twin Stanley. As a youth he sold concessions at Yankee Stadium and the Polo Grounds (on those days when a Mr. Goldstein chose the vendors; on other days the Irish kids got the nod); Bernard was sad to report that many of those Babe Ruth signatures from the Babe's 1938 return to the Polo Grounds as a Brooklyn Dodger coach were actually signed by fellow Dodger coaches Jesse Haines and Andy High. Among his early clients as a CPA were several artists and writers who worked at The New Yorker; without betraying confidences, we can report that A.J. Liebling's remuneration did not keep pace with his gustatory appetites. Bernard twice served in the armed forces. In his first stint, from 1942-1946, he served as a finance officer with the Army, stationed most memorably in England; he rose to the rank of Captain. He served from 1951-1952 as a Major in the Air Force, based in New York City, where he audited military contracts. He was a lifelong traveler; he and his wife visited every continent (including Antarctica); thanks to his accounting nature we know that they took thirty-five cruises on twenty-three different ships (including a dugout canoe) between 1963 and 2000. He beat polio as a teenager and was a three-time cancer survivor, a testament to his determination. He was predeceased by his son, Douglas, in 1960, and his twin, Stanley, in 2004. His survivors--his wife of 53 years, Helen, of Sleepy Hollow; his daughter, Susan, of Roscoe, New York; his brother, Joseph, of Culver City, California, and nieces and nephews all over--will miss his humor and elan. There will be a memorial service in New York City at a later date.
      