
        MORSE--Mildred Hockstader ''Tiny''. Of New York, Washington D.C., and Geneva, Switzerland. Died July 8, at her home in Manhattan. Beloved wife of the late David Abner Morse, Mrs. Morse was born in New York City in 1911. The daughter of Aline Straus Hockstader and Leonard Albert Hockstader, she was predeceased by a sister, Carol Eggleston, and a brother, Albert F. Hockstader. Her survivors include a nephew, Alan F. Hockstader of White Plains, three great nieces, one great nephew, and a host of godchildren and friends around the world. A graduate of The Spence School and Rosemary Hall, Mrs. Morse was a supporter of The Council on Foreign Relations where she established a lecture series in the name of her late husband; The Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute; The African American Institute; The New York Society for International Affairs, Inc., and Rutgers University where, in 1979, she and her late husband established the first major art acquistion fund at The Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum. During David Morse's twenty year tenure as Director General of the International Labor Organization (ILO) in Geneva, the couple accumulated a substantial collection of late 19th and early 20th century French Graphics and paintings which are now among the Zimmerli's holdings. In 1983, the Morse Print and Drawing Room opened at the Zimmerli. In 1995, an expanded version of that space became the major research facility for the museum. After her husband's death, Mrs. Morse also established a series of scholarships in his name at Rutgers University. Everyone who loved Mildred thanks Maria Martin, Rita Purdessy, Jennifer Simpson, Dierdre Mole and Dr. Veronica LoFaso, for their loving care, as well as all the staff at the Beekman who contributed to her well-being and comfort. In lieu of flowers, please make a contribution to the charity of your choice, The Guide Dog Foundation for the Blind, 371 East Jericho Turnpike, Smithtown, New York 11787, or The Irving Sherwood Wright Center on Aging, 1484 First Avenue, New York 10021. A memorial service will be held in the Beth El chapel at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Avenue and 65th Street, on Wednesday, October 19 at 11 A.M.
        MORSE--Mildred H. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Mildred H. Morse, our deepest sympathies on the occassion of her passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who loved her be comforted. Dr. David M. Posner, Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi Emeritus Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. George Asch, Sec'y
        MORSE--Mildred. We shall miss the ''Mildred Blue'' in our lives. Nina, ''WW'', Jane, Melissa
      