
        HERSH--Benjamin B. On July 23rd 2005, at age 91 Ben Hersh passed away. He was a well-respected resident and attorney of Peekskill, New York. He graduated New York University Law School in 1928 and began practicing law. He started his law career at Pines and Sterling, a leading firm in Peekskill, where his starting salary was $5 per week. He practiced until 1970 when he formed a partnership, Hersh and Hersh P.C., with his sons, which is still carried on by his son, Robert, at the old County Trust Bank Building located on Central Avenue in Peekskill. Never afraid of hard work, Ben was at the office every day well past his 90th birthday. An accomplished attorney, Ben was at times, Counsel to Peekskill Hospital, Counsel to the Mohegan Fire District, and Counsel to Caring for the Homeless of Peekskill. He served as Special Counsel to the Town of Cortlandt and was a Trustee of The Security Title Company. He served a term as director of the YWCA, although, as he put it, he was neither young, nor a woman, nor Christian. In the sixties, he served as closing attorney for Chase Manhattan Bank. During the term of Peekskill mayor Michael J. Dibart, Ben served as Prosecutor for the City of Peekskill. He was also elected to the Board of Directors for the Westchester County National Bank. While still a student at Columbia Law School, Governor George Pataki clerked for Ben Hersh and got his first experience in the practice of law. Ben was a longtime friend of the Pataki family, and represented the Governor's father, and grandfather. Two of his siblings followed Ben into the practice of law; Jerome and Frederick. So did his two sons, Robert and Philip as well as three of his nephews, Eric, John, and Scot. All continue to practice on the same street in Peekskill, except for Eric who is deceased. The legacy of attorneys seems to be continuing as Ben's granddaughter, Sarah, graduated Denver Law School in May 2005. An active member of the First Hebrew Congregation, Ben Hersh served three terms as president. As Chairman of the Building Committee, he was instrumental in the property acquisition and construction of the First Hebrew's Rt. 6 Building in Peekskill. He was the beloved husband of Anita Joseph for 58 years. Devoted father to Philip and Robert and cherished grandfather of Jenn, Sarah, Vicki, Jeff, Zack and Becky. He was the devoted father-in-law to Patrice; brother to Esther, Fredrick and Jerome, uncle to Scot, John, Richard, Anne, Todd, Baron, Miriam, and Nicole. A service was held at the First Hebrew Congregation on Monday morning. 350 people attended. In lieu of flowers, the family has suggested donations to the First Hebrew Congregation of Peekskill.
      