
        MARKUS--Marie E. S. A. of New York, NY and Chatham, MA. On Tuesday, July 5 at her home, surrounded by her family, after a brief illness. Widow of Frits, survived by her children Frank and Anna, daughter-in-law Nancy, and grandchildren Austin, Ella and Elisabeth. Mrs. Markus was born in 1914 in the Netherlands and was educated as a lawyer. With her husband and parents she found refuge in America where she served the Dutch government in exile. For many years she served as a volunteer at the Hawthorne Cedar Knolls School. After her husband's death, she became a discerning philanthropist. In recent years she made a commitment to Rockefeller University and its work in the life sciences. To the end, she was active in mind and body, enjoying her grandchildren, her garden, the sciences and long walks. Funeral service at 11:30AM on Thursday, July 7 at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th St. at Amsterdam Ave. The burial will be private. The family will receive condolence calls from 5-8 PM that evening at her home. Contributions may be made to Rockefeller University, the Fresh Air Fund or the Chatham, MA. Conservation Fund.
        MARKUS--Marie (Rita). The Rockefeller University community deeply mourns the loss of our beloved friend Rita Markus, a cherished member of The Rockefeller University Council and the University family. We are fortunate to have known this remarkable woman, whose eloquence, intel ligence, graciousness, and infinite curiosity captured our hearts and our minds. Her interest and involvement had an enormous impact on the small ''scientific village'' which is The Rockefeller University. She shared our love of science and our belief in its ability to improve the human condition. From her first visit to campus in 1996, Rita forged close and wonderful bonds with faculty members too numerous to mention, each of whom considered it an honor and great privilege to spend time in conversation with her. Rita's scientific interests touched on some of life's most challenging questions, such as the mechanisms of evolution, the origin of language, and the development of the human brain. Through her generous philanthropy, she strengthened a broad spectrum of University initiatives, including the Frits & Rita Markus Bio-Imaging Resource Center. Her keen mind, warm friendship, and passionate commitment to the advancement of science inspired all of us to be better than we are. Rita's return from the Cape each October was a joyous occasion for us, and it is difficult to imagine the future without her. We will greatly miss her, and we extend our heartfelt condolences to her children, Anna and Frank, her daughter-in-law, Nancy, and her grandchildren, Austin, Elisabeth, and Ella. Paul Nurse, President David Rockefeller Honorary Chairman Russell Carson, Chairman Richard Furlaud, Chairman Emeritus Torsten Wiesel President Emeritus Ali Brivanlou, Titia de Lange, Charles Gilbert, and Thomas Sakmar Professors
        MARKUS--Marie. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Marie ''Rita'' Markus, an esteemed benefactor and beloved friend whose exemplary commitment to humanitarian causes and the welfare of children marked a life dedicated to tikkun olam. Rita's boundless generosity and passionate enthusiasm for the Jewish community also included her longtime support of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services. She was a shining example of philanthropic leadership, strengthening millions of lives in New York, in Israel, and around the globe. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Rita's children, Frank and Anna; to her daughter-in-law, Nancy; to her grandchildren; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        MARKUS--Marie (Rita). The Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the death of Rita Marcus, a treasured friend and benefactor. Rita's keen intelligence and sophisticated grasp of the issues facing our staff made an enormous difference in the lives of children in need. We will miss her grace and will always appreciate with enormous gratitude her generosity and support to our agency. Our condolences to her children and grandchildren. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan, Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D., Executive VP and CEO
      