
        KREMENTZ--Virginia. Goodbye, darling, I will miss you terribly. Kitty Carlisle Hart
        KREMENTZ--Virginia Hyde. Died on July 12, 2005, at the age of 87, in New Vernon, New Jersey. The cause was brain cancer. Born on August 12, 1917, she grew up in Sagaponack and in Manhattan. She was a graduate of both Brearley and Miss Porter's School. She attended Juilliard School of Music and was for many years an accomplished concert harpist. She was predeceased by her husband, Walter M. Krementz, whose family founded Krementz Jewelry. The couple owned houses in Morristown, New Jersey, and in Paget, Bermuda. She was a member of The Coral Beach & Tennis Club in Bermuda and The Colony Club in NY. For almost two decades, in the 60's and 70's, Virginia Krementz ran her own very successful fashion business in New York City. Operating out of a showroom in The Wyndham Hotel, she represented a group of wellregarded foreign fashion designers that included Simonetta (Italy), Strelitz (Ireland) and Polly Hornburg (Bermuda). In 1973, she coproduced a film with Doubleday Multimedia, ''There is an Addict in the House,'' which won numerous awards and was, she felt, her proudest achievement. A passionate volunteer and a woman of tireless energy, Mrs. Krementz taught Sunday School for over twenty years. She tutored children in after-school programs for The Kips Bay Boys Club in lower Manhattan, and worked at Memorial Sloan-Kettering in the pediatric ward. Widowed in 1992, she moved to Vero Beach, Florida, and was an active member of the Oak Harbor Club, where she participated in, and won, many bridge tournaments. In Vero, she mentored at the Beachland Elementary School and did volunteer work for The Riverside Theater at the Center for the Arts. She is survived by her three children, Jill Krementz, Christie Graham, and Tony Kent; her two sons-in-law, the novelist Kurt Vonnegut, and Campbell Luke Graham, a VP of Richard Krementz Gemstones; and by her eight beloved grandchildren: Jessica, Jason, Tara, & Justin Kent; Ian, Eric, & Paget Graham; and Lily Vonnegut. A son, Wick Krementz, died in 1969. In lieu of flowers please send donations to The Riverside Theater, 3250 Riverside Park Drive, Vero Beach, Fl. 32963.
        KREMENTZ--Virginia. Anything good assumes the personalities of those who love it. Riverside Theatre is richer for that part of Ginny that lives on in us. Chuck Still, Exec. Director
        KREMENTZ--Virginia. She had what the Nuns in school called a smart mouth. The older she got, the smarter and wiser it got. Good-bye Aunt Gini, miss you forever. David Billings
      