
        SPIVACK--Edith I. The NYC Law Department expresses its sympathy on the passing of Edith I. Spivack, former Executive Assistant Corporation Counsel. Edith served as a role model for all lawyers and public servants. She was one of NYC's first female attorneys, working in our office from 1934 to 2004. She served with distinction under 10 Mayors and 23 Corporation Counsels. Edith represented public service and professionalism at its finest. Our deepest condolences to her family. NYC Law Department & Michael A. Cardozo, Corporation Counsel
        SPIVACK--Edith. The Real Estate Tax Review Bar Association notes with sorrow the passing of Edith Spivack, a respected member of the Bar who labored long and hard for the betterment of the City of New York. She was an example of public service at its very best and will be sorely missed. Michael R. Lippman, Pres.
        SPIVACK--Edith I. The New York County Lawyers' Association mourns the passing of our beloved member. She was an inspiration to those privileged to know her. Our condolences to her family. NYCLA Board and Staff
        SPIVACK GOLDSTEIN--Edith I. Died peacefully on July 26, 2005, at age 95 after a brief illness. Barnard College Class of 1929, Columbia Law School Class of 1932. She devoted her career to the City of New York during more than 70 years as an attorney with the New York City Law Department, Office of the Corporation Counsel. Widow of Bernard H. Goldstein, Columbia Law School Class of 1930, mother of Rita Christopher Frank of Madison, CT, and Amy G. Bass of Port Washington, NY, mother-in-law of Dr. H. David Frank and Geoffrey A. Bass, grandmother of Alistair and Gordon Christopher, Jonathan and Susanna Bass, and grandmother-inlaw of Federica Roncini Christopher, Catherine Martin Christopher and Dr. Chloe A. Zera. At her request, funeral services will be private. There will be a memorial celebration of her life in September. Donations in Edith's memory may be made to the Edith I. Spizack Fund for Women in Law and Society at the New York County Lawyers' Association or to Columbia Law School.
      