
        CABRAL -- Raymond. The president of Syn-Cronamics Inc., an international management consultant company founded by him in 1963 who also had considerable business interests in Stowe, Vermont, Provincetown, Massachusetts, and Tranquility, New Jersey, died on June 22 in Burlington, Vermont. The cause of death was due to cancer. He was 76. His death was announced by his wife Kim (Marie) Cabral. He had many accomplishments--and talents. He was a well-known business executive and entrepreneur, raced his sailboat, the Fandango, in the Caribbean, and was an artist and art patron. He also mentored many people. He was a self-educated man, an avid reader, and a natural leader of a practical and creative intelligence. A dynamic man who had an adventurous life, he was known for his generosity, sense of fairness, gamesmanship, visionary thinking, and stability. He provided leadership with his personal courage and strength of character. He had a wonderful sense of humor and intense enjoyment of all that life offered. His sensibility was an example to many. He was a true one of a kind. He will be greatly missed by his family and many friends. Born in Fall River, Massachusetts in 1928, Mr. Cabral was the son of the late Anthony F. Cabral and the late Diamantina Medeiros. He graduated from Durfee High School. He was the husband of Kim Marie S. Cabral, nee Plesniak, of Canada. Mr. and Mrs. Cabral lived in Stowe, Vermont and Truro, Massachusetts. They were together 26 years. He leaves a brother, William Cabral of Provincetown, Massachusetts, and a sister, Eileen Darby of New York City. His first marriage was to Miriam Jacques of Massachusetts. He is survived by his four children, Steven Cabral of the Philippines, Susan Megargle of Biloxi, Mississippi, Caroline Dezen of Sudbury, Massachusetts, and Laura Diamond of Harleysville, Pennsylvania and seven grandchildren. Funeral services were held on Monday, June 27 at 1 PM. at the Stowe Community Church in Stowe, Vermont. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to The American Cancer Society. For information, contact the Stafford Funeral Home in Stowe.
      