
        FREEDBERG--Irwin M., MD. 74, of New York, New York and Holderness, NH, formerly of Newton, Massachusetts. Husband for 51 years of Irene (Lisman) Freedberg. Father of Marjorie F. Bogdanow and her husband Michael of Lexington, Kenneth A. and his wife Joyce Jen of Weston, and Deborah A. and her husband William Diebold of Portland, OR. Grandfather of Matthew, Daniel, and Alyssa Bogdanow, Suzanne and Katherine Freedberg, and Joseph and Abigail Diebold. Chairman of the Department of Dermatology at New York University School of Medicine from 1981-2005. Formerly Chairman of Dermatology at the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston and the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Avid skier, world traveler, and lifelong Boston sports fan. Funeral service will be at Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 E. 51st St, New York, NY on Tuesday, July 19 at 3 PM. Burial at Lindwood Memorial Park in Randolph, MA on Wednesday, July 20th at 12 noon. Donations in his memory may be made to the Irwin M. Freedberg, MD Fellowship Fund, Department of Dermatology, NYU School of Medicine, TCH 100, 550 1st Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
        FREEDBERG--Irwin M. The entire NYU Medical Center community mourns the passing of our friend and colleague Irwin M. Freedberg, M.D,. George Miller MacKee Professor and Chairman of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology. One of the leaders of American medicine, Dr. Freedberg's distinguished career spanned nearly 50 years and influenced countless colleagues and students. He spent nearly half of his career at NYU, presiding over one of the oldest, largest, and most renowned dermatology departments in the country. During his remarkable tenure he guided the department through an extraordinary period of growth in molecular and cell biology, genetics and immunology. He was also a great physician - scientist, whose pioneering research on keratins, the proteins produced by the epidermis, won him preeminence in the field of dermatology. Dr. Freedberg received his M.D. degree from Harvard Medical School. After completing an internship and residency at Beth Israel Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, and a post-doctoral fellowship at Brandeis University, he joined the Harvard Medical School faculty as an Instructor in Dermatology and becamer Professor in 1974. He later joined the faculty of Johns Hopkins as Professor of Dermatology and its first Director of the Department of Dermatology. In 1981 he came to NYU as department chair. Dr. Freedberg received many prestigious awards during his lifetime, and he published widely in the medical literature. He was former President of the Society for Investigative Dermatology, the American Board of Dermatology and the Association of Professors of Dermatology. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire Freedberg family. Kenneth G. Langone Chairman NYU Medical Center Boards of Trustees Robert M. Glickman, M.D. Dean and CEO NYU Medical Center Eric C. Rackow, M.D. President NYU Hospitals Center
        FREEDBERG--Irwin M., MD. The faculty, alumni, residents and staff of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New York University School of Medicine, record with profound sorrow the death of Dr. Irwin M. Freedberg, the George Miller MacKee Professor and Chairman of our Department from 1981-2005. Irwin was a caring and talented clinician, investigator, teacher, mentor and friend, holding high administrative positions in all major dermatological organiza tions. His tireless efforts, leadership and vision helped ensure that our department will continue in its tradition of excellence. Although he will be deeply missed, generations of dermatologists and scientists will carry on in his spirit of scientific inquiry exhibiting the highest professional standards. We offer our sincerest condolences to his wife Irene, his children and his family. Nicholas A. Soter, MD Interim Chairman Department of Dermatology NYU School of Medicine
        FREEDBERG--Irwin, M.D. Sutton Place Synagogue sadly records the passing of our longtime member, benefactor, Trustee and former Officer. He gave generously of his means, energy and compassion. We will sorely miss his stimulating intellect which enriched us. Heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Irene, devoted children, grandchildren and all of his loved ones. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, President
        FREEDBERG--Dr. Irwin M. The New York Dermatological Society mourns the passing of Irwin M. Freedberg, M.D., a loyal member, a friend, and mentor who made enormous contributions to our specialty. He will be greatly missed. R.D. Granstein, M.D., Pres.
        FREEDBERG--Irwin M., M.D. Deepest sympathies to the family of Dr. Irwin Freedberg, on behalf of The Dermatologic Society of Greater New York.
      