
        AMES--Harold S. Of Kings Point and Westhampton Beach, NY, passed away Friday evening, July 1, 2005 in North Shore University Hospital after a long illness. Dearly beloved husband and life partner of Dorothy; adoring father of Elizabeth and Allison; father-in-law of Charles Opolinsky; devoted grandfather of Harley Ames Opolinsky; brother of Bernard Roy and the late Renee, Arnold and Milton. Mr. Ames was a leader in the market for non-ferrous speciality metals. In 1958, he founded NonFerrous International Corp., a key supplier of prefabricated aluminum, brass and copper tubing to equipment manufacturers in a variety of industries. A metals industry pioneer in a new era of world trade, Non - Ferrous was among the first to bring European and Japanese metal into the US market. Mr. Ames guided Non-Ferrous as its President and CEO through its 1973 acquisition by the metals division of Mitsubishi North America. He continued as President of Non-Ferrous for nearly a decade after the acquisition. For 26 years, Mr. Ames was the owner of CrossTown Tennis at Fifth Avenue. He was a Founding Director of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center. A passionate supporter of Israel with a lifelong interest in world affairs, Mr. Ames was an officer and founding member of the National Committee on American Foreign Policy. He was a long time active member in the Anti-Defamation League, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, and a contributor to the United Jewish Appeal. For 20 years, he was President of the Board of the Gallery Apartment Condominiums at 32 East 76th Street in NYC. Mr. Ames received his bachelors degree in Economics from NYU. He completed a masters degree and doctoral studies in Economics at the New School for Social Research. An avid tennis player and voracious reader, surrounded by music, books and an adoring family, Dad succeeded in business and in life. His strength and courage inspired his children and all who knew him. A service will be held on Wednesday, July 6, 2005 at 11 AM at Riverside Nassau-North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY, 516-487-9600. The family will receive condolence calls that afternoon 4-8:30 PM at the home of Harold Ames. Friends of Allison Ames can pay their respects the following day, Thursday, July 7 between 12-4 PM or 6-9 PM at the Ames Opolinsky residence. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research or the National Multiple Sclerosis Society.
      