
        GOLDMAN--Ralph M. Died Sunday, July 10th in his home at age 85. Specializing in American and transnational political parties, Professor Goldman championed the use of parties as the institutional alternative to civil and international war, and as crucial to overcoming terrorist and anti-democratic movements. Prof. Goldman published more than a dozen books and over 80 articles in scholarly journals and encyclopedias. In 1960 he co-authored the ground-breaking Brookings Institution study of The Politics of National Party Conventions. In From Warfare to Party Politics, 1990, he shows how nations evolve from violence to party competition via a ''critical transition'' in their political development. Viewing war a last resort, Prof. Goldman co-authored Building Trust: An Introduction to Peacekeeping and Arms Control (1997). His journal articles and citations to most of his books may be found in The Future Catches Up, 2002 and his professional work is described in Who's Who in America. A Professor of Political Science at San Francisco State University (1962-1986), Prof. Goldman served as Dean of Faculty Research and Director of the Institute for Research on International Behavior. From 1956-1962 he taught at Michigan State University and from 1953-1956 he was a Research Fellow at The Brookings Institution in Washington, DC. Post-retirement, he was Sr. Consultant to the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs and directed off-campus graduate programs in Politics at The Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. Prof. Goldman was born in Brooklyn, NY on May 14, 1920. While at Boys High School, he edited the school newspaper, organized the peace club, and led the honor society. He served for four years in the Adjutant Generals Corps during World War II, rising to the rank of Captain. He then earned his B.A. at New York University and his M.A and Ph.D. in political science at the University of Chicago. Prof. Goldman is survived by his wife, Barbara Alban, two adult children, Peter and Meg, and his brother, Leonard. Meg, her husband Gary Prince, and two grandchildren, Laurel and Austin, reside in Washington. Leonard and his wife Elinor live in New Jersey. Professor Goldman's marriage to Joan Walsh ended in divorce.
      