
        DOLGIN--Israel M. We cannot believe what life will be like without you. You have given us the memory of your memories to carry with us forever. The stories of growing up with your brother and sister and most of all your beloved twin, Jeannette (Post), all of blessed memory, will mingle in our hearts with equal amounts of laughter and love. You taught us the importance of Tzedukah (charity) to be performed without public display but with compassion for the dignity of all people; you taught us the value of Mishpuchah (family), and the rich texture that adds to all aspects of our life; you taught us the value of Zichor (memory) so that history became a living part of our present and future actions. And you taught us the beauty of our heritage so that we understood that Hebrew is not something you only hear with your ears but feel with your heart. You showed us the importance of permanence by your love and devotion to our mother, Diana, for over 63 years. You never left the house without leaving a funny note or card. We will care for her, tend the gardens you loved and keep you with us within our hearts forever and ever. Services Thursday, 10AM at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels'' 55 North Station Plaza (opposite LIRR), Great Neck, NY. Kal and Peggy; Neil and Cindy; Gail, Ellie; Josh and Rebecca; Brynn & Alan and Emma (Klein); Daniel; Amelia and Ben (Nardenelli); Grant, Carly, Chad, Brett; Rebecca, Ari, Heather
        DOLGIN--Israel M. It is with profound sorrow that we report the passing of our beloved Chairman of the Board. He was a vibrant and innovative leader whose wit and wisdom were cherished by all. He guided our company for generations but his greatest joy was to see that it continues with two succeeding generations. Truly he embodied the living concept of ''from strength to strength''. His wisdom and counsel will be sorely missed. Our sympathy is extended to his beloved wife of 63 years, Diana, his children, grandchildren and great-grandchild. Our offices will be closed Thursday, July 14, 2005. Kalmon Dolgin Affiliates, Inc. & KND Management Co., Inc.
        DOLGIN--Israel. The Officers, Board of Directors, Members and Staff of Engineers Country Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Israel Dolgin, on July 13, 2005, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Diana, sons Kalmon and Neil and their families. Les Genatt, President
        DOLGIN--Israel. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President
      