
        STEINBERG--Rabbi Paul M. The President, Board of Governors, administration, faculty and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion deeply mourn the death of our beloved colleague, Dr. Paul M. Steinberg. For 50 years, the name of Paul M. Steinberg has been synonymous with the College-Institute. His love, devotion and influence on the College have extended to each of our four campuses, Cincinnati, New York, Los Angeles and Jerusalem. He loved Judaism and the Jewish people. And in turn, people loved him -- the twinkle in his eyes, the laughter in his heart and the pleasure taken in a loyal friendship. Funeral services will take place on Monday, July 11, at Hebrew Union College, 1 West 4th Street, at 11 am. Contributions may be made to the Paul M. Steinberg Memorial Fund of HUC-JIR. May his dear wife, Trudy, and their children, Lonnie, Alan, their grandchildren, Lindsey, Michael, Alex, Haley, Joshua, Arielle and Natalie, be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, President Burton Lehman, Chair, Board of Governors
        STEINBERG--Rabbi Paul M. The Rabbis and Cantor of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York mourn the passing of Rabbi Dr. Paul M. Steinberg, Vice-President of Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion. As Dean and Vice-President, he was supreme. As colleague and friend, he was sublime. He leads us in paths of righteousness for the sake of God's Holy Name. May his soul be bound up in the bond of eternal life. Rabbi David M. Posner Rabbi Amy B. Ehrlich Rabbi Nadia E. Gold Cantor Lori Corrsin Rabbi Leon A. Morris Rabbi Ronald B. Sobel
        STEINBERG -- Paul. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Hospital for Joint Diseases wish to express their sincere sympathy at the passing of Paul Steinberg, Ph.D., a loyal member of our Board for more than 20 years. Our heartfelt sorrow goes out to his wife, Trudy, and the entire family. William A. Perlmuth, Chairman of the Board David A. Dibner, CEO
        STEINBERG--Rabbi Paul M. Riverside Memorial Chapel expresses heartfelt condolences to the family of one of our truly good friends. We will miss his gentle manner and wise counsel. Charles S. Salomon, Pres.
      