
        BENENSON--Edward Hartley. Born March 27, 1914, in NYC. Beloved husband of Gladys. Loving father of Thomas, James and Deb, Amy and Clifford Aronson, Lisa and Joseph Quattrocchi, and Andrew Benenson and Ronnie and George Igel. Adored grandfather of 14 grandchildren and great grandfather of five great grandchildren. A great lover of food and wine, art and travel, the Yankees and the Civil War. Chairman of Benenson Funding Corporation. Edward H. Benenson graduated from Duke University in 1934 and has been involved with the University and Medical Center ever since. He was Trustee Emeritus and former Chairman of Friends of Duke University Museum of Art. He established the Edward H. Benenson Awards in the Arts at Duke and founded the Edward H. Benenson Merit Scholarship Fund for Duke University Medical Center (DUMC). He received the 2000 Honorary Medical Alumnus Award from DUMC and the 2002 Distinguished Alumnus Award from the University. He was co-founder and Honorary Trustee of the Culinary Institute of America where he was the generous donor of the Edward H. Benenson Scholarship Fund. He was also a member of the Board of Overseers of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Grand Camerlingue Honoraire of the Confrerie des Chevaliers du Tastevin, Bailli Delegue Honoraire des Etats Unis of the Chine des Rotisseurs and member of the American Societies of the Italian Legions of Merit and of French Order of Merit. The family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street on Monday from 6-8. Funeral services on Tuesday at 11:30 AM, Frank E. Campbell. In lieu of flowers, donations in his memory may be made to Duke University Medical Center, c/o Ruth Irvin, DUMC, 512 South Mangum Street, Suite 400, Durham, NC 27701-3973. He had a heart of gold and will be greatly missed by all those whose lives he touched with his kindness, generosity and love.
        BENENSON--Edward H. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a good friend who served with distinction as a member of our Board of Overseers for more than four decades. Among the early members of our Society of Founders, he served as Society chairman in 1961, and remained a dedicated supporter of the College's medical research and education programs through the years. He also was a Guardian of Yeshiva University. To his wife, Gladys; his children, Thomas, James and Deb, Amy and Clifford Aronson, Lisa and Joseph Quattrocchi, Andrew, and Ronnie and George Igel; to his 14 grandchildren and to all the members of his family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        BENENSON--Edward. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Edward Benenson, beloved husband of Gladys and patriarch of the Benenson family. Edward, a strong proponent of higher learning, expressed an unwavering commitment to the Jewish community. The Benenson family continues Edward's tradition of community building and generosity of spirit through its care and support of UJA-Federation. We extend our deepest sympathies to Gladys & to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        BENENSON--Edward H. Grand Camerlingue Honoraire of the Confrerie des Chevaliers du Tastevin Commanderie d'Amerique and Grand Senechal of the New York Sous-Commanderie for 23 years, 1968-1991. He was our guide and mentor. Rest well, dear friend. We will go on always with your precepts. The Members of the SousCommanderie de New York, Dr. Carlos Arango, Grand Senechal
        BENENSON -- Edward H. Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Edward Benenson and extends sincere sympathy to his wife Gladys and other members of his family. Sincerely, Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary
        BENENSON--Edward H. Founder and guiding light of Les Vingt-Six since 1976. We will continue your group of convivial epicures with the highest standards meeting over memorable repasts of the finest wines and most select of menus. Les XXVI
      