
        MENDELL--Ira Lebeck. Beloved husband of Joan Armour and the late Peggy Postley died at the age of 92 at his summer home in Purchase, NY. He was a resident of Sarasota, FL. He was a devoted father to his three children and their spouses: Thomas and Andrea Mendell, Alice and Kenneth Starr, James and Peg Kamens Mendell. Adored grandfather to Randall Starr, Carolyn Starr Doolittle, her husband Cameron, Cynthia Starr, Russell, Jake and Molly Rose Mendell, Lauren Mendell and the late Alexander Mendell and one great grandchild Grace Doolittle. He is also survived by four loving stepchildren and eight step grandchildren. He served as an Army Captain and intelligence officer during World War II. Later, he became President of Regional Development Company of New York. He not only enjoyed golf as a sport, but was active in the Metropolitan Golf Association as a former president and for many years served as a committeeman of the United States Golf Association. Tubby, as he was referred to by most all who knew him, was a warm and loving man. He will surely be missed by everyone who had the privilege to know him. Services will be held at the Westchester Reform Temple in Scarsdale New York on Sunday, July 10th at 2 PM. The family requests that in lieu of flowers, donations in his memory be made to Hospice of Westchester, 95 South Broadway, White Plains, New York 10601-4403.
        MENDELL--Ira. The Board of Directors and members of Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with sorrow the passing of our esteemed friend and member for more than 67 years, Ira Mendell. An active committee member of the USGA and former president of the Metropolitan Golf Association, in 1992 ''Tubby'' was a recipient of its highest honor, the Distinguished Service Award. Our deepest and heartfelt condolences to his wife, Joan, his children, Alice, Tom and Jim and the entire family. Steven M. Slaven, President Thomas W. Brock, Secretary
        MENDELL--Ira. Bright, witty and warm. We've enjoyed our time together travelling the world with Joan and Tubby. We'll miss his company. Sincere condolences to the family. Carol and Howard Phillips
      