
        LANE--Peter A. Dad, we can't imagine life without you. You have always been our backbone, always larger than life. There will not be a minute where you leave our thoughts. Mom, Eric, Adam and Sarah
        LANE--Peter A. The Board of Directors, Administration and Staff of The United Hebrew Geriatric Center mourns the passing of Mr. Peter A. Lane. As the President of The United Hebrew Geriatric Center and Vice-President of The UGC Foundation, Peter has been a devoted friend and ardent supporter for many years. Our heartfelt sympathy and prayers are extended to the bereaved family, his wife Rita and his two sons. Malcolm Lazarus, Chairman Rita C. Mabli, CEO
        LANE--Peter. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to his wife Rita, his children Eric and Adam and the entire family. Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Emeritus Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Robert M. Schack, President Karen Goldstick, Chairman
        LANE--Peter. All of the kind words that were ever written on the pages of this newspaper could not fully describe our cousin Peter. He was the kindest, most sensitive man we ever knew and his legacy will live on in his family and all the people who loved him forever. Our hearts go out to Rita, Eric and Adam. Rest on peace cousin Petey. Diane and Morton Setchen
        LANE--Peter. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and past President, Peter Lane. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Rita and his children Eric and Adam, and the entire Lane Family. Michael Barasch, President Dr. Robert Green, Secretary
        LANE--Peter. Taken from his beloved family far too soon. Our hearts and prayers are with Rita, Eric, Sarah and Adam. Your devotion and love for Peter was immeasurable. We share your loss. The Dillon family
        LANE--Peter A. Mr. Petie, our time together was too short, but my memories are forever. I love you, Sarah
      