
        ZANKEL--Arthur on July 28, 2005 at age 73. Founding partner of High Rise Capital Management, former director of Citigroup, former comanaging partner of First Manhattan Company, ViceChairman of Carnegie Hall and Trustee of Teachers College. Beloved husband of Judy. Loving father of Kenneth, Thomas, Mark and James. Cherished grandfather of Maura and Andrew. Devoted brother of Martin and Jeffrey. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday 11:30AM. Contributions in his memory may be made to Judy and Arthur Zankel Hall at Carnegie Hall 881 Seventh Avenue, NY, NY 10019.
        ZANKEL--Arthur, financier and philanthropist. Mr. Zankel was a longtime trusted advisor who joined Citigroup's Board of Directors at its inception in 1986. His experience and judgment helped the company grow from Commercial Credit into Citigroup -- a journey of remarkable accomplishment. Mr. Zankel served Citigroup for more than a decade as chairman of the personnel and compensation committee. As a member of the succession subcommittee, he helped to assure the extraordinarily smooth transition to Citigroup's new CEO and COO structure in 2003. When Mr. Zankel retired from the Board in 2004, Citigroup Chairman Sanford I. Weill said, ''It's not an exaggeration to say that no company approaching our size and scale and depth of management talent has ever had such a successful, virtually seamless transition. Arthur deserves much of the credit.'' Citigroup appreciates his years of dedicated service and extends its condolences to his wife Judy, and sons, James, Mark, Thomas, and Kenneth. A memorial service will be held Sunday, July 31, 2005, at 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, New York, New York 10028; 212288-3500.
        ZANKEL--Arthur. Teachers College is deeply saddened at the passing of Arthur Zankel, Vice Chairman of our Board of Trustees. Arthur was a highly intelligent and caring man who never forgot his roots. He had a wonderful sense of humor and was a wise counselor who knew what he believed and never took himself too seriously. He was a good and caring friend. He was deeply in love with his wife, Judy, and his children. He was passionate about the need to improve the lives of the children who have the least. He gave generously of his time and resources to accomplish this. Our world is a better place and our lives have been enriched because Arthur Zankel walked among us. There can be no higher measure of success in life. His passing is a profound loss to all who were touched by his enthusiasm and generosity. Our thoughts are with his wife, Judy, and his four children. Arthur Levine, President John C. Hyland William D. Rueckert Co-Chairs Board of Trustees Teachers College Columbia University
        ZANKEL--Arthur. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the untimely loss of Arthur Zankel, a giant in the world of finance and an esteemed leader of the New York Jewish community. Arthur's overwhelming support for humanitarian and educational concerns served as the foundation for a lifetime of commitment that positively influenced millions of lives. His years of service to our Board of Directors and his work as chairman of our Investment Committee forged a lasting legacy. Arthur strengthened our community through his warmth, generosity, and enthusiasm, setting an example of philanthropic leadership infused with the spirit of tikkun olam. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Arthur's beloved wife, Judy; to his sons, Kenneth, Thomas, Mark, and James, and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        ZANKEL--Arthur. Our hearts are broken over the tragic loss of our dearest friend Arthur. With his wisdom, his warmth and compassion, his sensible advice and his outrageous sense of humor he was such an important part of our lives and our decisions. He was always there for us, ready to take ''a walk in the woods'' or ''a swim in the pool''. Our New Year's weekends will never be the same, but we are so lucky to have those treasured memories of our time together. Our hearts go out to his beloved wife Judy who made him so very happy in the eight years of their marriage. He also felt such pride and love for his boys Kenny, Tommy, Mark and Jimmy, their spouses and his grandchildren. Arthur, we already miss you, and we will never forget all you have been to us. May you rest in peace, dear friend. With all our love. Joan and Sandy Weill
        ZANKEL -- Arthur. Arthur Zankel was an extraordinary human being. A man of great personal integrity, he was an astute judge of human character, a witty raconteur and a brilliant businessman. Above all, he was an exceptionally loving and devoted friend, father and husband. We will miss him deeply. Our heartfelt condolences go to his wife Judy and his sons Kenny, Tommy, Mark and Jimmy and to Anna, Susan and Pia. The Nenner, Dukess and Gotoff Families
        ZANKEL--Arthur. James and Ellyn Polshek and the architectural team at Polshek Partnership--Joseph Fleischer, Charles Griffith, Richard Olcott, Charmian Place and Thomas Wong--are profoundly saddened by the loss of their friend and patron. Without Arthur's and Judy's forward thinking and enthusiastic support, Zankel Hall could not have become so significant a part of NY's cultural landscape. James Stewart Polshek Polshek Partnership Architects
        ZANKEL--Arthur. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Arthur Zankel. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Judy, and to the entire family. Patricia Sumergrade, Pres. Richard J. Bronstein, Secy.
        ZANKEL--Arthur. Dear Arthur, I will always miss you, the boys, and all our laughing. Your second wife, Hedy Zankel
      