
        HOLDSWORTH -- Frederick Jr. of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY and Gloucester, MA, died on June 25, 2005 of Parkinson's-related pneumonia. He was born October 23, 1917 in Arlington, MA, the son of Frederick Holdsworth and Jessie McCreary Holdsworth (Hilton), and spent his boyhood in Brookline, MA. He attended The Rivers School and graduated from Milton Academy in 1936 and from Harvard University in the class of 1940. After college, he worked for JP Morgan & Co until being commissioned Ensign in the US Naval Reserve where he was assigned to the Navy Department in Washington, DC. His military service included: liaison between the Office of Naval Intelligence and the War Department G2; assignment to the State Department for the Dumbarton Oaks Conference; Aide to Vice Admiral Russell Wilson, USN (Ret.) of the Joint Strategic Survey Committee of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; and attendance at the San Francisco Conference which gave rise to the United Nations. His civilian career was spent primarily in banking and investments at Chase National Bank and then at Scudder, Stevens & Clark as investment counsel. He served for 35 years on the Board of Directors of The Children's Village, a residential treatment center in Dobbs Ferry, NY. He was a member of the Delphic Club of Harvard and the Harvard Club of NYC where he was Secretary for many years. Surviving are his wife of 57 years, Harriet Swift Holdsworth and three children; Ariel Holdsworth and her husband, Thomas F. Berner of Yonkers, NY; Samual Swift Holdsworth, his wife, Betsy Malm Holdsworth and their children Tedric, Lydia and Henry of Santa Fe, NM and Gloucester, MA; and Eric Ashley Holdsworth and his wife, Hilarie Crosman Holdsworth, of Gloucester, MA. Music remained a lifelong interest. He studied jazz piano well into his 80s and played for many benefit events. His focus was the music of the 1920s, 1930s, and 1940s. He was also a proud member of the Gloucester-based jazz ensemble Teddy and the Juniors. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in his memory to The Children's Village, Echo Hills, Dobbs Ferry, New York 10522 or The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research, Grand Central Station, PO Box 4777, N.Y., N.Y. 10163. Memorial services will be announced at a later date.
      