
        CONNEALY--Mary Jo. Vice President and Artist Manager at Columbia Artists, passed away Tuesday morning July 26, 2005 at her home in Manhattan after a long illness. She is survived by her beloved son Sean, a specialist in Information Technology at Columbia Artists, and by her brothers and sisters-in-law Larry and Judy Maupin of Grand Island, NE and Kenneth and Anne-Marie Maupin of Spokane, WA. A native of Lincoln, NE she comes from a musical family and graduated in music from the University of Nebraska. Her professional career began with creating special projects for the National Endowment for the Arts, bringing the performing arts to the heartland of America and singing in the Robert Shaw Chorale. Ms. Connealy was employed by Columbia Artists for 26 years, and was one of its most respected and loved artist managers. Her artists included Rudolf Buchbinder, Renaud and Gautier Capucon, Sir Peter Maxwell Davies, The Empire Brass, Claude Frank, the late Lillian Kallir, Katia and Marielle Labeque, Ute Lemper, Cecile Licad, Valentina Lisitsa and Alexei Kuznetsoff, Vadim Repin, Vladimir Spivakov, Alexander Toradze and Christian Zacharias. She worked closely with R. Douglas Sheldon, Senior Vice President of CAMI, in representing Anne-Sophie Mutter, Leonard Slatkin, Nigel Kennedy and Marilyn Horne as well as touring the New York Philharmonic with Kurt Masur, the Orchestre National de France with Lorin Maazel, and the Los Angeles Philharmonic with Carlo Maria Giulini. Ms. Connealy's long-term collaboration with Sir Peter Maxwell Davies resulted in no less than six North American and three World Premieres of his works. She produced more than 500 performances by international opera companies coast to coast in the United States for Helikon Opera, Stanislavsky Opera and the London City Opera. Ms. Connealy was proud to be associated with such award winning talents as the Eroica Trio (Grammy Award winners), Nikolaj Znaider (Queen Elizabeth Competition winner), Renaud & Gautier Capucon (named ''Talents of the Year'' by Victoire de la Musique), and Arabella Steinbacher. Information regarding a Memorial Event will be available at a later date. Donations may be made in her name to: The Ovarian Cancer Research Fund 14 Pennsylvania Plaza, Suite 1400 New York, NY 10122 (800) 873-9569 Friends and Colleagues Columbia Artists Management, Inc
      