
        LEVITT--Mortimer. On July 12, your great and courageous heart could no longer sustain life in you. During the 98 years you spent on this earth you were known as merchant prince, philanthropist, producer, author, and above all as a confirmed iconoclast. You wanted to live to 104, but you will live much longer because we will carry forward your vision and your dreams. Your wife Mimi, your daughter Elizabeth, and your son Peter, will miss your strong presence and your wonderful sense of humor. You influenced the lives of many people with your intelligence, your creativity, your exquisite taste and your zest for life. We will celebrate your remarkable accomplishments and your extraordinary spirit at a memorial tribute a la Mortimer in September. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to Young Concert Artists, 250 West 57 St., New York, NY, or Friends of the Levitt Pavilion, 85 East Holly St., Pasadena CA. 91103. To receive information about the memorial service send an email to: MortimerMemorial@aol.com
        LEVITT--Mortimer. The Writing Center at Marymount Manhattan College notes with sadness the passing of our great benefactor and dear friend, Mortimer Levitt. Mortimer once observed that ''Endless troubles are the price we must all pay for the gift of life. There are no exceptions,'' and he urged us all to adopt his motto and philosophy ''Keep smiling,'' to best deal with the absurdity of the situation. To his wonderful wife, Mimi, his great love and guiding spirit, and the rest of his family, we send our deepest sympathies. Lewis Burke Frumkes, Director
        LEVITT--Mortimer. The musicians, staff and board of directors of the Bard Music Festival mourn the passing of Mortimer Levitt, husband of Mimi Levitt, who is a friend and member of the board. His fabulous and utterly unique personality will be missed. We extend our condolences to his entire family. Robert C. Edmonds, Chair Leon Botstein, Christopher H. Gibbs, and Robert Martin, Coartistic Directors Irene Zedlacher, Exec Dir
        LEVITT--Mortimer. Everyone at The New Victory Theater will miss the dapper Mortimer Levitt, his pithy comments and his spirited enthusiasm for life and for our shows. He may have been our oldest audience member, but he was certainly the youngest at heart. We all send love to Mimi and the family. Marian S. Heiskell, Chairman Cora Cahan, President The New 42nd Street
        LEVITT--Mortimer. The Board and staff of the Landmarks Conservancy are saddened by the death of Mortimer Levitt, husband of our long time board member, Mimi Levitt. He was a man of wit, charm and generosity. Our condolences to Mimi and her family. John J. Kerr Jr., Chair Peg Breen, President
        LEVITT--Mortimer. The Film Society of Lincoln Center deeply mourns the loss of its dear friend and board member. His wisdom and irrepressible humor will be sorely missed by all who have worked with him these many years. The Board and Staff of the Film Society
        LEVITT--Mortimer. You may have been a curmudgeon, but to us you were always a cherished friend. We shall truly miss your provocative but supportive critiques, and send our love to Mimi, Elizabeth, and Peter. Ronnie and Sam Heyman
        LEVITT--Mortimer. Mercy College mourns the loss of scholarship benefactor Mortimer Levitt and extends our condolences to Mimi and his family. Louise H. Feroe, President
        LEVITT--Mortimer. You are unforgettable. A unique influence on all you touched. We cannot miss you--you'll always be with us. Felice
      