
        SHATTUCK--James H. died peacefully at his home in Guilford, CT late Sunday night, July 3rd 2005. He was born on August 5th, 1915 in Neenah, Wisconsin, the son of Ruth and S.F. Shattuck. His friends called him Jim. He was a member of the Yale class of 1939 as well as a student at Tufts University where he studied electrical engineering. While at Tufts he met his future wife, Martha Merrill of Cambridge, Massachusetts. Their marriage lasted 63 years, beginning in June 1941 and ending with her death last August. In 1952, Yale University hired him as Assistant Personnel Director where he worked until 1966. In 1968 he became Personnel Director for the University of New Haven, a job he held until his retirement in 1980. Of equal importance with his professional life was the continuous flow of extraordinarily generous acts of anonymous charity to everyone he met who was in need and the organizations that had impressed him with their good deeds and value. As a man he had been blessed with athletic ability and a degree of physical courage that could verge on audacity. He played football, ran track and wrestled at the Choate School and Yale University. In 1966 he decided to try hiking by walking from Maine to Georgia on the Appalachian Trail. This was the start of a love of the wilderness, the outdoors, and selfsufficient adventure that would last more than two decades. Jim preferred doing things rather than talking about them. But when asked he might sketch the barest outlines of an event of astonishing risk and resourcefulness, the details of which revealed both his quiet sense of humor and his profoundly pious belief in divine guidance. Jim is survived and will be missed by the three sons that he and Martha raised, Bradlee, Alden and Jonathan; his daughter-in-law, Marianne; his five grandchildren, Johan, Kyle, Trevor, Brendan and Avery, his two granddaughters-in-law Trisha and Emily; his great grandchildren Xavier, Elise and Johan; and his two sisters Ann and Mary. A memorial service will be held at the First Congregational Church at the corner of Church and Broad Streets in Guilford, CT on Thursday, July 14th, at 1:00PM.
      