
        WIENER -- Ronald Charles. The Horace Mann School mourns with profound sorrow the sudden passing of our dear friend and parent, Ronald Wiener, adored husband of Heather and beloved father of our students, Kaitlin, MacGregor and Nicholas. A man of valor, wit, intelligence and wisdom, he was a good and compassionate friend to all. His generosity and loyalty to Horace Mann was boundless. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Heather, Kaitlin, Nicholas, MacGregor and the rest of his family. We will miss him greatly. Dr. Thomas Kelly, Head of School Robert J. Katz '65, Chair, Board of Trustees
        WIENER--Ron. Our hearts are broken with the loss of you, Ron. You stood for the thing in life that means the most--the love of family. Your bond of love with Heather, Kaitlin, Nick and MacGregor is something many people are never lucky enough to have. We feel privileged to have shared in that bond with our families. We will miss you greatly but we know you are smiling down now at your beautiful family who made you proud each day. With all our love, Nikki and Paul Ginsberg Helaine and Rick Gordon Andy and Frank Schiff
        WIENER--Ron. To Ron Wiener, to one of the smartest men I've ever met, to one of the most elegant men I've ever met, to one of the most private men I've ever met, to one of the most decent men I've ever met, to a man who knew that money did not grow on trees, to someone who did everything to love and provide for his family. We will always be there for the Wiener family. From the whole Pergament family, Lizzy, Lucas, Harrison and Sydney, and Arthur
        WIENER--Ronald. We are saddened at the untimely passing of Ron Wiener. We express our deepest sympathy to Heather and his children Kaitlin, Nicholas and MacGregor, for whom he felt such love and pride. We are all there for you. Barbara Weinstein Bernstein on behalf of the Horace Mann Parents Association
        WIENER--Ron. To Heather Wiener, just remember that Arthur Pergament will always be there for you, and the Pergament children will always be there for the Wiener children. Arthur, Lizzy, Lucas, Harrison and Sydney Pergament
      