
        HIRSCHFELD--Abraham Made history and will be remembered dearly by family and friends. Born in Poland in 1919. Moved to Israel in 1933. Later joined Haganah to fight for Israeli independence. Emigrated to United States in 1950. Builder of parking facilities throughout Metro area and became affectionately known as the ''garage king'' of New York. Then formed partnership with son Elie Hirschfeld in 1976 to develop important residential, commercial, hotel and sport projects throughout New York area, including Hotel Pennsylvania, West Side Rail Yards, Sports Clubs-61 Street, 404 East 55th St, Apt. Towers, 25 Broad St. Tower, Crowne Plaza Hotel, Park Avenue Court, Grand Sutton and many more. Great civic leader. Publisher of NY Post in 1993. Treasurer of NYS Democratic Party. Member of Tristate Regional Planning Commission. Ran for U.S. Senator, NYS Lieutenant Governor and Manhattan Borough President. Elected City Commissioner of Miami Beach in 1989. Devoted husband to Zipora for 63 years. Survived by son Elie Hirschfeld and wife Dr. Susan Hirschfeld; daughter Rachel Hirschfeld; brother Menashe and wife Judith Hirschfeld; eight grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. The leadership of St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center (SLR) along with its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, extends its deepest condolences to our colleague Elie Hirschfeld, Trustee and Chairman of the SLR Society, on the death of his father, Abe Hirschfeld. Our sympathy is extended to Elie and his family during this difficult time. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Boards of Trustees Continuum and St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center Stanley Brezenoff President and CEO Continuum Richard F. Daines, MD President and CEO St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. Our thoughts, prayers & deepest sympathies are with Ellie & Susan and their family on the loss of his father. Abe will be deeply mourned & greatly missed. Judy and Seymur Aronson.
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. With prayers for Ellie, his mother, Zipora and family as they mourn the loss of Abe. The Dovere Family
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. Our thoughts and prayers are with Ellie and his family in his time of sorrow. Lieberman Family
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. We mourn the loss of Abe and send prayers to our good friend, Ellie and his family. Plize Family
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. Our condolences to Ellie and his family on the loss of his father. Abe Hirschfeld The Olson Family
      