
        McCABE--Margaret Ellen ''Nini'', age 53, died August 24, 2005 in Fairfield, CT. after a long illness. She was born October 29, 1951, Cuernavaca, Mexico to Charles Raymond McCabe, a former columnist for the San Francisco Chronicle, and Margaret Ellen ''Peg'' Scripps Buzzelli. Nini was a great-granddaughter and heiress of Edward Willis Scripps, founder of the Scripps newspapers and United Press International. Educated at Cobham Hall, Kent, England, Simon's Rock, Great Barrington, MA, and a graduate of Bennington College in Bennington, Vermont, she was a recipient of The Mark Van Doren Prize for Poetry. She first worked for publisher, Al Goldstein in New York, for Grabhorn-Hoyem Press in San Francisco, and afterwards as a freelance writer. A 30 year denizen of North Beach, Nini was an integral part of the tapestry of San Francisco, well known at her father's favorite watering hole, Gino and Carlo's, and beloved to many San Franciscans. She was preceded in death by her parents. Survived by her brothers, Peter (Debbie) of Portland, OR, Charles (Gail) of San Francisco, CA and Bob Buzzelli of Sarasota, FL; sisters, Mary (David) Peirce and Liz (Sam) Logan of Sarasota, FL. Also survived by four nieces and and three nephews, many dear friends in San Francisco, CA and Connecticut and her faithful companion and guardian, Olive. A celebration of Nini's life will be held at Gino & Carlo's, 548 Green Street in San Francisco, CA on October 29 at 5:00PM. All friends and relatives are welcome. Private memorial services will be held in Connecticut and Florida. Donations may be made in her memory to: The Connecticut Chapter of National Multiple Sclerosis Society, One Selleck Street, Suite 500, Norwalk, CT 06855, Delta Society National Service Dog Center, 875 124th Avenue, NE, Suite 101, Bellevue, WA 98005, The Nature Conservancy, 4245 N. Fairfax Drive, Suite 100, Arlington, VA 22203 or the Mechanics Institute Library, 57 Post Street, San Francisco, CA 94104. To send an online condolence please visit www.shaughnesseyfuneralhome.com
      