
        CIARDI--Alexandra Morgan. 48, died suddenly August 10 in a boating accident in Sardinia, Italy. She was a resident of London, Porto Ercole and NY. Born in NYC she graduated from The Brearley School, Tufts University and Columbia Business School. She was a path breaking business woman on Wall Street, beginning at Goldman Sachs in NY and then London; she then became a founding member of GLG Partners, one of London's largest hedge fund groups. Alexandra served as a Tufts University Overseer and on numerous boards of charitable organizations in London and NY. Beloved wife of Giuseppe. Adoring mother of Olivia, Francesco and Federico. Loving daughter of Alice Gerard and the late David E. Morgan. Dear sister of Leslie Solmonson, Fern Lindsay, Nicholas Morgan and Christopher Gerard. Devoted daughter-in-law of Francesco Ciardi and the late Natalia; sister-in-law of Olimpia, Francesca, Nicolo, Tito and Vittoria. Her nieces and nephews adored her and will miss her terribly. Her friends the world over will feel the loss of her boundless energy and love for life. Funeral services Monday 1PM at West London Synagogue.
        CIARDI--Alexandra. We extend our deepest condolences to Guiseppe Ciardi and his family on the tragic death of their beloved wife and mother, from your colleagues on the Board of Overseers at Columbia Business School. We will always remember our treasured alumna. Russ Carson, Henry Kravis Co-Chairmen, Columbia Business School Board of Overseers
        CIARDI--Alexandra. Our dear friend. To Peppe, Olivia, Francesco, and Federico-our hearts are broken. Alex was a shining superstar-a total joy. We treasure our 33 years of love and friendship. With tears, love and profound sympathy. Brenda and Howard Grange and Susan Grant and Brett Johnson Heather and John Sargent
        CIARDI--Alexandra. The entire Columbia Business School community mourns the tragic and untimely death of alumna Alexandra Ciardi, Class of '81, beloved wife of our Board of Overseers member, Guiseppe Ciardi, '81. Our thoughts and prayers are with the family. Dean Glenn Hubbard, faculty, staff, students and alumni of Columbia Business School
        CIARDI--Alexandra. Our dear Allie, so many years of friendship, love and wonderful times. We love you, Peppe, Olivia, Frank and Freddy. Margie, Charlie, George, Charlotte and Becky
      