
        HIRSCHFELD--Abraham Made history and will be remembered dearly by family and friends. Born in Poland in 1919. Moved to Israel in 1933. Later joined Haganah to fight for Israeli independence. Emigrated to United States in 1950. Builder of parking facilities throughout Metro area and became affectionately known as the ''garage king'' of New York. Then formed partnership with son Elie Hirschfeld in 1976 to develop important residential, commercial, hotel and sport projects throughout New York area, including Hotel Pennsylvania, West Side Rail Yards, Sports Clubs-61 Street, 404 East 55th St, Apt. Towers, 25 Broad St. Tower, Crowne Plaza Hotel, Park Avenue Court, Grand Sutton and many more. Great civic leader. Publisher of NY Post in 1993. Treasurer of NYS Democratic Party. Member of Tristate Regional Planning Commission. Ran for U.S. Senator, NYS Lieutenant Governor and Manhattan Borough President. Elected City Commissioner of Miami Beach in 1989. Devoted husband to Zipora for 63 years. Survived by son Elie Hirschfeld and wife Dr. Susan Hirschfeld; daughter Rachel Hirschfeld; brother Menashe and wife Judith Hirschfeld; eight grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
        HIRSCHFELD--Abraham. We join in condolences to Zipora, Elie, Susan and the entire Hirschfeld family. Abe's extraordinary creativity and energy will be missed. Herbert Rubin, President Herzfeld & Rubin
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. May G-d comfort and console you among the mourners of Zion. Our deepest symphathy to Ellie Hirschfeld on the loss of his father. U.S. Israel Fund
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. The firm of Perelson & Weiner offer condolences to Zipora and Elie Hirschfeld, wife and son, on the passing of Abe Hirschfeld.
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. We mourn the loss of Abe and send prayers to our good friend Elie and his family. John Lieberman
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. We mourn the loss of Abe and send our prayers to our good friend Elie and family. Maple Properties
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. We extend our deepest sympathy to Elie Hirschfeld on the loss of his father. College Park LLC
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. We wish Elie Hirschfeld solace and comfort upon the loss of his father. Limelight Realty Company
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. We offer our condolences to Elie and his family on the passing of his father Padden Company
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. Our deepest sympathies to our friend Elie on the loss of his father. Realty NYC
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. Our prayers are with Elie as he mourns his father. Accent Property
      