
        de BARY--Patricia, noted community leader and beloved wife of Marquette de Bary, died peacefully, at her home in New York, Sunday, August 21, of natural causes. She was born on June 19, 1919, in Atlanta, Georgia, to Elizabeth Sturgis Murrill and Hugh Ambrose Murrill. She had three siblings: Tracy, Kathleen and Hugh II. She moved to Greenwich, Connecticut, when she was 13 years old, and was head of the Chapel Committee and Head Marshall of The Rosemary Hall School, from which she graduated. She attended Sweet Briar College and in 1938, married David DuVivier, an attorney. Her son, Jerome Sturgis DuVivier, was born on October 22, 1947, and her daughter, Eleanor Tracy DuVivier, was born on April 11, 1951. In the early fifties, she became one of the first women stockbrokers registered on the New York Stock Exchange. In 1956, she was divorced and in 1958, married Theodore Sauvinet Gary, an electronics entrepreneur. Ted's daughter, Laura Gary, became her daughter. The Gary's lived in New York, Miami Beach, Madeline Island, Wisconsin, and in Wayzata, Minnesota. In 1972 they were divorced. In 1977, she married Marquette de Bary, President of Marquette de Bary Co., an investment banking firm. Since then, they have lived in New York, Southampton and Paris. All her life, she was a dedicated leader and benefactor of charitable and community organizations. She founded the Madeline Island Public Library in Wisconsin and was an outstanding leader in Florida with the American Cancer Society. In New York, she was on the Women's Advisory Board of the Boys Club of New York for over 50 years, and devoted herself to boards and events for The Central Park Conservancy, The Southampton Hospital and the New York Botanical Gardens. She remained a stockbroker until 2002, and was a gracious hostess, as well as a social and community force. She will long be remembered for her elegance, her taste, her love of family, her loyalty to friends, her commitment to excellence, and her generosity to the nonprofit community in every place she found herself. She is survived by her devoted husband, Marquette deBary; her son, Jerome Gary; her daughters, Laura Gary Thorne and Tracy Gary; her sister, Kathleen Murrill Lee; and her grandsons, Jordan Lambert Gary, Edwin Thorne III and Hunter Gary Thorne, and her granddaughter, Melanie Thorne Wagner. Memorial contributions should be sent to the Boys Club of New York, The Central Park Conservancy, the New York Botanical Gardens, or the Madeline Island Public Library. A memorial service will be held, at 11 AM, at Saint Bartholomew's Episcopal Church, Park Avenue at 51st Street, Thursday, September 15th.
      