
        DIAMOND--Eva. Died peacefully at home, August 10, 2005, after a long illness. She was 82 years old. She was born in Hanover, Germany. Her father, Edmund Lillienstern, died when she was nine, and she came to the United States at age 13, with her mother, a U.S. citizen by birth. Eva spoke no English when she arrived, but became fluent in the language by the time she finished high school and went on to Barnard College. During WWII, she completed the program at Columbia-Presbyterian School of Nursing, worked for a year at the Hospital and then began a long association as a public health nurse with the Visiting Nurse Service of New York. She took graduate courses at Teachers College, and in 1952, to pursue her abiding passion for constitutional law, she entered the Columbia University Law School. After her first year, she took a leave of absence to accompany her husband for a year in Boston. She returned to New York with a five-week-old baby, the first of her four sons, and decided then to be a full-time homemaker. She lived with her young family for a time in London, St. Louis, and New York City before moving to Garden City where she resided for the past 38 years. As a proud homemaker, she was a devoted wife and a loving mother to her sons. She was admired for her sharp wit and her directness; and her significant contributions to school, church and community, coupled with a strong sense of loyalty and fairness, endeared her to all who knew her. In 1973, she returned to work with the VNS. She became a respected grievance representative for her fellow nurses, and served as a member of the executive committee of their Union in the UFT. These were roles she relished, both for the pursuit of causes she judged to be just, and to express more fully the camaraderie she felt with her colleagues. After retirement, she resumed all those activities which her declining health allowed. She was a prodigious reader, a prolific writer and a devoted gardener. She was also a talented cook who was wellknown for the Stollen and an endless variety of cookies she baked and distributed every Christmas. She was greatly loved, and will be held fast in memory by her many friends & her extended family; by Sidney, her husband of 52 years; by her sons, Michael (Reina), Andrew (Elizabeth), Robert and Christopher (Dione); and by her grandchildren, Laura, Amy, Julie, Lilly and Meredith. A memorial service will be held on October 1, at 1 P.M., at the Unitarian-Universalist Church in Garden City, New York.
      