
        LEVESQUE -- Therese A., Ph.D. Died August 28, 2005 after a prolonged illness. Born May 8, 1917 in West Warwick, R.I. to J. Wilfred Levesque & Mathilda Smith Levesque. A longtime resident of Nyack, New York, she was predeceased by her brother Lucien of Coventry. R.I. and sister Vivian Heebert of Charlottesville, VA. Survived by Sister Blandine Levesque of the Grey Nuns of Montreal, Montreal, Canada, Claire Smith of North Charleston, S.C., brother Raymond of Mamaroneck, N.Y., Henriette Allen, Ph.D. of Clinton, Ms. Cecilia Mruk of Larchmont, N.Y. and Cecile Allen of Alpharetta, GA, and many nieces and nephews and grand-nieces and grand-nephews. Graduated with a BA degree, Magna Cum Laude, major in French and minor in Latin from Rivier College, 1938. Awarded her Master of Arts Degree in Latin, Fordham University, 1948, Ph.D. Educational Administration, Supervision and Curriculum, Fordham University 1961. Began her teachng career in Rhode Island and continued in New York. At her retirement she was Assistant Superintendent in the Orangeburg School District, Blauvelt, NY. Enlisted in the United States Marine Corps Women's Reserve in February, 1943. Received basic training at Hunter College, New York City. Graduated from Aerology/Meterology School, U.S. Naval Air Station, Lakehurst, NJ. Accepted for O.C.S. and won her gold bar. Retired in 1947 with a rank of 1st Lieutenant. Collaberated with her sister Henriette Allen in the writing of school textbooks. She was a Fulbright exchange teacher, Montpelier, France in 1953-1954. A communicant of St Ann's Church in Nyack, NY, she was active in many church activities but her main involvement was with the St. Vincent de Paul Society. Student, educator, administrator, author and patriot, she was an inspiration to her siblings and students. We have lost a fine, generous and thoughtful sister and friend. Wake to be held at Hannemann's Funeral Home, 88 South Broadway, Nyack, NY, on Tuesday, August 30 from 4 to 7PM. Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at St. Ann's Church, 16 Jefferson Street, Nyack, NY, Wednesday, August 31 at 10 A.M. Interment will be private at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Therese A. Levesque, Ph.D. Scholarship Fund, Rivier College, 420 Main Street, Nashua, NH 03060.
      