
        DETMOLD--George Ernst. 88 died August 12, 2005 at home in St. Augustine, FL. Born February 18, 1917, in New York City, he was the son of George Justus and Mabel Porter Detmold. A 1938 graduate of Cornell University, where he captained the fencing team and coached its saber men, he earned the AB, AM, and PhD degrees there before joining the Army during World War II. Commissioned in Ordnance, he was sent to the Chinese Language School at Yale University before overseas assignment to the X Force of the Chinese Training and Combat Command, serving in Ramgarh, India, along the Ledo Road into Burma, and in China's Yunan Province. At war's end, Lieutenant Detmold returned to Cornell as Instructor in English and Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, before moving up Cayuga Lake to teach English at Wells College in Aurora, NY. After completing a course in higher educational administration at Columbia University's Teachers College, he became Dean of Gallaudet College in Washington, DC, which awarded him an honorary LittD degree in 1996. Meanwhile, he carried on an avocational career in non-commercial theatre, directing more than 200 productions with college students and amateur actors in community theatres. He also designed Gallaudet's first theatre building. Realizing the dramatic power of sign language, he directed a series of classical dramas in sign language, including Hamlet, Othello, Macbeth, Oedipus the King, The Trojan Women, Iphigenia in Aulis, and Medea. The student actors in these critically acclaimed productions, with the support of the Eugene O'Neill Memorial Foundation, went on to form the world-renowned National Theatre of the Deaf. After retiring, Mr. Detmold moved to St. Augustine in 1976. He leaves his wife, Louise, a son and daughter-in-law, Christopher and Dorrit, of St. Augustine; two stepsons, Eugene Y. Willis III and Dr. Amos Johns Willis of Fredericksburg, VA; a granddaughter, Maya, and great-granddaughter, Zoe, of Newport News, VA; a brother, John, of Leeds, MA; six nephews and five nieces. Burial will be in Arlington National Cemetery on a date to be determined. Memorial gifts may be made to the Drama Department at Gallaudet University.
      