
        YARMON--Morton. On August 3. Beloved husband of Betty, cherished brother of Elliott N., fond uncle of Thomas, James, Carol and Marjorie. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Calling hours Thursday 4 to 7 PM. Funeral service Friday, 11:30 A.M., at Frank E. Campbell, ''The Funeral Chapel'', 81 St and Madison Ave. In lieu of flowers donations to the Jacob Perlow Hospice.
        YARMON--Morton. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear and beloved friend, Morton Yarmon, who along with his wife, Continuum and Beth Israel Trustee Betty Yarmon, was a generous benefactor and staunch supporter of numerous hospital programs and services. A successful public relations executive, Mort firmly believed that people who have the means should reach out to institutions and organizations that can improve the quality of life for others in need. As the recipient of his extraordinary philanthropy, Continuum and Beth Israel named in his and Mrs. Yarmon's honor the Betty and Morton Yarmon Center for Parkinson's Disease; the Betty and Morton Yarmon Manhattan Hospice Residence; the Betty and Morton Yarmon Neurobehavior and Alzheimer's Disease Center; and the Betty and Morton Yarmon Stroke Center. In addition, the nurses' station at the Hyman-Newman Institute for Neurology and Neurosurgery, the Yarmon Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Gymnasium and the Yarmon Patient Lounge, all facilities at Beth Israel's former Singer Division, were also named in their honor. Mort's abiding humanitarianism was an inspiration to us all. To Betty and all the Yarmons' family and friends, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Boards of Trustees, Continuum and Beth Israel Stanley Brezenoff, President and CEO Continuum David J. Shulkin, M.D. President and CEO Beth Israel
        YARMON -- Morton. The American Jewish Committee is profoundly saddened by the death of Morton Yarmon, a beloved staff member for nearly 30 years and an honorary member of our Board of Governors. Mort, a seasoned writer, editor, educator and quintessential public relations professional, joined AJC in 1963 as Director of the Department of Public Education and Information. His keen sense for news and his dedication to his craft helped AJC find a clarion voice in the media and deepened the public's understanding of the American Jewish agenda. His abiding respect for and appreciation of the media earned him a sterling reputation, and the esteem and affection of many reporters. Mort's devotion to the Jewish people and commitment to AJC's mission in Israel and around the world was reflected in his impeccable ethics and passion for his work. We were proud to honor him with AJC's Mass Media Award upon his retirement in 1991. Mort was a man of great intelligence, warmth, humor, generosity and humanity that defined him throughout his life and will serve as his lasting legacy. We send our heartfelt condolences to his cherished wife, Betty, and the many friends and colleagues who will surely miss his presence. E. Robert Goodkind, Pres. David A. Harris, Exec. Dir. Shulamith Bahat, Assoc. Exec. Dir.
        YARMON--Morton. The physicians, nurses and staff of Continuum Hospice Care and the Jacob Perlow Hospice Program at Beth Israel Medical Center acknowledge the passing of our dear friend, benefactor and former patient Morton Yarmon. Together with his wife and devoted life partner, Betty Yarmon, their generous support and advocacy for advancing the cause of hospice care will be remembered always and forever appreciated. Their generosity to Continuum Hospice Care is reflected in the naming of the Betty and Morton Yarmon Manhattan Hospice Residence in their honor. Our thoughts and prayers to Betty and all of her and Mort's loved ones and extended family during this difficult time. Carolyn Cassin, President and CEO Continuum Hospice Care Russell K. Portenoy, M.D. Chairman, Department of Pain Medicine and Palliative Care Beth Israel
        YARMON -- Morton. Mort Yarmon will forever be remembered by the physicians, nurses and staff of the Alan and Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology at Beth Israel Medical Center for his steadfast commitment to stroke prevention and research in Parkinson's disease. His philanthropic support of the Betty and Morton Yarmon Center for Parkinson's Disease has enabled the Medical Center to participate in numerous clinical trials, helping researchers move closer toward finding a cure for this devastating illness. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his devoted wife, Betty, and all who loved him. Susan B. Bressman, M.D., Chairman The Alan & Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology Irene Boniece, M.D. The Betty & Morton Yarmon Stroke Center
        YARMON--Morton. The Development Committee of Continuum Health Partners mourns the passing of our dear friend, Morton Yarmon. Together with his cherished wife, Continuum Trustee Betty Yarmon, their extraordinary generosity provided valuable support to many of the programs and services of our member institution, Beth Israel Medical Center. Our deepest condolences to Betty and to all who knew and loved this wonderful man. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Boards of Trustees Continuum and Beth Israel and Chairman, Continuum Development Committee Kathleen McGovern, Senior Vice President, Development and External Affairs Patricia Balsamini, Vice President, Development
        YARMON -- Morton. With great sadness, the physicians, nurses and staff of the Betty and Morton Yarmon Neurobehavior and Alzheimer's Disease Center join in mourning the passing of a tremendous humanitarian, Morton Yarmon. Together with his beloved wife he showed a sincere interest in the care of the elderly and demonstrated that concern through his philanthropic support of our program. We are eternally grateful for his dedication and generosity. To Betty and all of Mort's loved ones, we offer our deepest condolences. Todd E. Feinberg, M.D. Chief The Betty & Morton Yarmon Neurobehavior and Alzheimer's Disease Center
      