
        ROLLER -- Mildred. Died peacefully on August 15 after a long, brave struggle. She is survived by her loving husband of 58 years, Abraham, and her children Cheryl (William) Hurwitz and Marc Roller, grandsons Ian and David Bassin, her devoted brother Philip Rosen, wife Rita and many nieces and nephews. Services Wednesday August 17th at 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Interment at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. Contributions in her memory may be made to The Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Women's Division, 1165 Morris Park Avenue, Room 320, Bronx, NY 10461.
        ROLLER--Mildred. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the loss of Mildred Roller, beloved sister of our good friend, Philip Rosen, Vice Chairman of our Board of Overseers, and a past Chairman and current Executive Board member of our Men's Division. Phil and his wife, Rita, are honorary degree recipients from Yeshiva University. Mildred, with her husband, Abraham, was an esteemed member of Einstein's Society of Founders. She was also a member of the NY Chapter of our National Women's Division. To Mr. Roller, children Cheryl (William) Hurwitz and Marc Roller, to Phil and Rita, and to all the members of the family, we extend our heartfelt sympathy. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairman Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean Adam Gottbetter, Chairman Men's Division Linda Altman, President National Women's Division
        ROLLER--Mildred. JBI International, formerly the Jewish Braille Institute, is saddened by the passing of the sister of our longtime, esteemed Trustee and Honorary Vice Chairman, Philip Rosen. Our heartfelt thoughts and condolences are with the family at this time of sorrow. We pray that her memory will endure as a continuing blessing and inspiration to the entire family. Judy E. Tenney, Chairman Barbara B. Friedman, Honorary Chairman Dr. Ellen Isler, President
        ROLLER--Mildred. We mourn the loss of our brave and beloved sister Mildred Roller who died after a long and difficult illness. To her devoted husband Abe, to daughter Cheryl Hurwitz and husband Bill; to her son Marc and to grandchildren Ian and David we extend our love and sympathy and join them in their grief. We will all miss her. Rita & Philip Rosen & Family
        ROLLER--Mildred. The staff of the Philip and Rita Rosen Department of Communications and Public Affairs of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University extends deepest condolences to Phil and Rita, and the entire family, on the loss of Phil's beloved sister. Abe, Sheila and Sue
        ROLLER--Mildred. It is with great sorrow that we mourn the loss of our beloved Aunt. We will miss and love you always. Phyllis, Wendy, Robert, Michael, Stephanie, Brett, Shawn, Alli, Matt, Jackie, Alec and Kayla
        ROLLER--Mildred. Mom, I will always remember and cherish our times together. They were very special to me. I will miss you and you will remain in my heart forever. Your loving and devoted daughter, Cheryl
      