
        PODELL--Bertram, Honorable. On August 17, 2005. Beloved husband of Bunny. Loving father of Stephen, Ellen and Daniel, Gary and Jill. Dear brother of Dr. Paul and Michelle and Herbert and Lorraine. Son-inlaw of Celia Posen. Brotherin-law of Dr. Jack Posen and Carol. Adoring grandfather of Henry Adam, Amanda and Alexandra Crown and Samantha and Justin Podell. You were loved, adored and will be remembered and missed forever. Service Friday 10:30AM at Central Synagogue, Lexington Avenue at 55th Street. Contributions can be made to Crohn's and Colities Foundation of America.
        PODELL--Bertram. My dearly beloved Bert, It's been so many years, I don't know where to begin. No one ever had a better life. I will always cherish the fabulous times we had. Our accomplishments together. Our creation of our 3 wonderful children. Fiftytwo years. We had so much fun together, and a life beyond my wildest dreams. In the end you suffered so very much. Your courage and strength pulled us all through. I will love you forever and ever. Bunny
        PODELL--Bertram L. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of Bertram L. Podell. A longstanding leader of Israel Bonds, Bertram Podell was an Advisory Board Chairman and Guest of Honor of the Real Estate and Construction Division and a member of the Prime Minister's Club. His brother Herbert and son Gary are active in the Real Estate campaign. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife Bunny and the entire family. May they be consoled among the mourners of Zion and may his memory be for a blessing. Joshua Matza President & CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board David Halpern National Chairman Daniel R. Tishman Greater New York Chairman James B. Emden Chairman, Real Estate and Construction Division
        PODELL--Bertram L. The Partners of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP, mourn the passing of our senior partner and founder of the Firm, Bertram L. Podell. We will miss his wise counsel, his unique sense of humor and his neverending tales. We extend our deepest condolences to Bert's wife, Bunny, his treasured children, Stephen, Ellen and Dan, Gary and Jill, his beloved grandchildren, Adam, Amanda, Alexandra, Samantha and Justin. Herbert S. Podell Israel Schechter William E. Banfield Gary Schuller Lawrence Marco
        PODELL--Bertram L. The Associates and Staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP, record with profound sorrow the passing of the senior partner and founder of the Firm, Bertram L. Podell. Bert, who had a distinguished legal career, also held political office for many years as a New York State Assemblyman and Member of the United States Congress. We extend our deepest condolences to Bert's wife, Bunny, his treasured children, Stephen, Ellen and Dan, Gary and Jill, his beloved grandchildren, Adam, Amanda, Alexandra, Samantha and Justin and to his brothers, Paul and Herbert Podell.
        PODELL -- Bertram. Today we mourn the loss of our dear father and our very best friend. Our father, Bertram Podell, passed away after bravely battling a long illness. Dad, We will always remember you as the hero that you were; brave, kind and loving until the end; always putting your family first. Dad, you always knew what to say, how to make us laugh, and how to keep us strong. You never let us take ourselves or the world too seriously. You will be our source of strength and will live in our hearts forever. We love you so very much. Rest in peace, Dad. Stephen, Ellen, Gary, Dan, Jill
        PODELL--Bertram L. We mourn the untimely passing of Bertram L. Podell. Bert was always a loving husband, loving father and brother and we extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Bunny, his treasured children, Stephen, Ellen and Dan, Gary and Jill, his beloved grandchildren, Adam, Amanda, Alexandra, Samantha and Justin. We will all miss his wisdom, wit and passion for life. Lorraine, Herbert, Pamela & Allison Podell
        PODELL--Bertram. Sol Goldman Investments mourns the passing of our longtime dear friend, Bert. Always a dynamic presence, Bert's cheerfulness and unfailing loyalty were a small part of his magnanimous personality. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Bunny, and his children, Stephen, Gary and Jill, Ellen and Dan, and his many grandchildren. Allan, Diane, Amy and Jane Goldman
        PODELL--Bertram. ''Old folks, young folks, everybody come. Come along to Sunday School and have a lot of fun. Kindly check your chewing gum and raisins at the door, and I'll tell you stories that you never heard before.'' You will stay in our hearts and minds forever. We will always love you more than words can say. Our dear Poppy. Henry Adam, Amanda, Alexandra, Samantha, Justin
        PODELL--Bertram L. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Bertram L. Podell. He served our community with a tremendous commitment. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, President
        PODELL--Bertram L. Appraisers & Planners Inc. and the Levy family mourn the passing of Bertram L. Podell. We will miss his longtime friendship, outgoing personality and wisdom. Our condolences to Bunny and his children Stephen, Gary and Jill, Ellen and Dan and his many grandchildren. Jim and Leslie Levy
        PODELL--Bertram. The partners, associates and staff of Marcus & Pollack LLP express our sympathy on the passing of Bertram Podell. We extend sincere condolences to his family and to the partners and staff of his law firm. Joel R. Marcus Robert M. Pollack Philip H. Azarian
        PODELL--Bertram L. We mourn the loss of a dear brother and uncle. Bert was always a loving older brother who lived by the dictum ''Blood is thicker than water''. His love for his niece and nephews was deep and profound. We will miss you. Paul, Michele, Jonathan, Matthew & Elisabeth Podell
        PODELL--Bertram. With deep sadness we say goodbye to our dear friend of 48 years. Our deepest sympathy to his dear wife Bunny and his children Ellen (Dan), Gary (Jill), Stephen, and his grandchildren. Rest in peace, old friend. Helen and Larry Weinstein
        PODELL--Bertram. Our deepest sympathy and sincere condolences to his wife, Bunny, and children, Ellen, Gary and Stephen, and the entire Podell family. Bert was a special man and will be sorely missed. Lynn and Burt Wallack and Family
        PODELL--Bertram. Our deepest sympathy to his wife Bunny and his children Gary, Stephen and Ellen on the loss of their beloved Bert. Our sincere thoughts go out to the entire Podell family. With much love, Sandy, Joe & Aaron Sirulnick
        PODELL--Bert. We mourn the passing of our wonderful friend, Bert. Our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Bunny, and their children, Stephen, Ellen, Dan, Gary, Jill and their families. Jane & Joseph Pontarelli
        PODELL--Bertram. We will miss and cherish our longtime dear and special friendship. Bunny, we love you. Beverly, Al Weiss and family
      