
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. on August 1, 2005. Beloved husband of Sandra, devoted son of Min and the late Jack Wasserman. Loving father of Mindee, Craig, Debra, and father-in-law of Marla and Jason. Cherished grandfather of Alison and Jared, dear brother of Adele (William), Rosanne (Al) and brother-inlaw of Randee (and the late Paul). A dedicated and compassionate business leader and philanthropist. We all love you very much. You will be in our hearts forever. Services Thursday 11am at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. The Baruch College community records with great sorrow the passing of Bert W. Wasserman. For 50 years, Bert Wasserman, Class of '54, in loving partnership with his wife Sandy, was a pillar of the Baruch community. One of the original founders of the Baruch College Fund, Bert was a hard-nosed practical visionary who, in 1970, helped launch the College's first Capital Campaign. In subsequent years, he spearheaded many of the College's best and boldest initiatives, most notably the innovative Bert W. and Sandra Wasserman Trading Floor, centerpiece of the College's state-of-the-art financial services center. Baruch faculty and students were the ultimate beneficiaries of Bert Wasserman's generosity. He and Sandy have been especially strong supporters of the new Russian and East European Jewish student population on campus. The most loyal and hard-working of alumni, Bert Wasserman will be grievously missed by all who knew him. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Sandy, his children and his many friends everywhere. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76 Street, Thursday August 4 at 11am. Kathleen Waldron, President Baruch College Irwin Engelman, President The Baruch College Fund
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Bert W. Wasserman, a renowned business leader and cherished friend of the New York Jewish community. Bert's deep commitment to humanitarian concerns was exemplified by his boundless generosity and support of our Entertainment Division and his service as one of the founding directors of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center. His legacy of benevolence has strengthened our ability to care for those in need and will surely continue through the efforts of his beloved wife, Sandra and their children. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Sandra; to their children, Debra, and her husband, Jason; Mindee; Craig, and his wife, Marla; to their grandchildren, Alison and Jared; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. We mourn the passing of our long time friend and colleague Bert W. Wasserman, beloved husband of Sandra, father of Mindee, Craig and Marla, Debra and Jason and grandfather of Alison and Jared. We will miss his warmth, humor, advice, generosity and brilliance. We will miss him terribly but we will remember him with fondness for his courage and strength in the face of a debilitating illness, as well as his absolute passion for life (18)-his love of family, his Brooklyn Dodgers, Mets, Knicks, Rangers and our football pool. Alpine Capital and the families of: Oded Aboodi Richard Goldstein Bruce Greenwald Carl Harnick
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. To the best father anyone could ask for--you have been a blessing in our lives and we will always cherish your great legacy of love, compassion, generosity and accomplishment. You have been the pillar of strength to our family and we are adrift without you. You did it ''your way'' and made us so very proud. We will always love you and we promise to take care of your ''Sandy''--the love of your life for more than 50 years. We miss you so very much. All our love, Mindee, Craig, Debra, Marla and Jason
        WASSERMAN -- Bert. The Board, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center mourn the passing of Bert Wasserman, a founding member of our Board and devoted friend. He will long be remembered for his advocacy and commitment to our Center. We extend sincere condolences to the entire family. Lawrence Simon, Chairman Arthur Goldstein, President Herbert Friedman, Exec VP
        WASSERMAN--Bert. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of The Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Bert Wasserman, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Sandra and children, Mindee, Craig and Debra and their families. Philip Shapiro, President
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. To the grandfather who spoiled us rotten and who we will miss more than all the Haagen-Daz ice cream in the world. You taught us the importance of family and we will always love our Papa Bert. Love, Alison and Jared
        WASSERMAN -- Bert. We loved you and will miss you. You had a heart of gold and an intellect to match. During your long and terrible illness, you never lost your sense of humor. Our condolences to Sandy, Craig, Mindy, Debbie, and grandchildren. Dottie and Marty
        WASSERMAN -- Bert. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Heckscher Museum of Art are saddened by the loss of Bert. We extend our deepest and heartfelt sympathy to our dear friend Sandra and to all the members of the Wasserman family.
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our long-time friend, Bert. Our hearts go out to Sandy, Mindee, Craig and Marla, Debra and Jason, and the entire family. Your friends at TAG Associates LLC
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. Kindness to others was your hallmark. A wise mentor to so many, you were a gentle man who was a true gentleman. You will be missed. Roger Smith
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. After 55 years, it is difficult to imagine a world without you. We love and already miss you very much. Corky and Morty
      