
        WALLACE--Henry Browne, H.B., as he preferred to be known, was born September 18th, 1915 in Des Moines, IA. He was the son of Ilo Browne Wallace and Henry Agard Wallace, the latter a former Secretary of Agriculture and Vice President of the United States. H.B. received a BS from Iowa State College in 1938 where he studied genetics. In the manner of many extraordinary Americans, H.B. carried on his family's tradition of philanthropy, scientific research and community service. His revolutionary breakthroughs in the science of poultry breeding have greatly boosted the international effort to feed the earth's burgeoning human population. Putting together a staff of geneticists, immunologists, nutritionists and management specialists, he directed their pursuit of both basic and applied research. Upon retiring to Scottsdale, AZ in 1985, H.B. developed a passion for arid lands and in particular the Sonoran Desert. Combined with his support of the McDowell Sonoran Land Trust and the Desert Foothills Land Trust, he placed a conservation easement on 80 acres of his undeveloped property to ensure its lasting protection. He has created a unique botanical center housing one of the world's largest non-commercial collection of cacti and succulents. The Wallace Desert Gardens has served as a free research facility for scientists, ecologists, educators and students from universities, non-profit organizations and agencies. H.B.'s passion for scientific research was undiminished from his college days. He has granted millions of dollars to numerous universities and foundations for research in the fields of mercury-related illnesses, cancer, heart disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). H.B. was a strong believer that the future of America rested with its young people. His interest in the youth of America was evidenced in generous support of the Belin-Blank International Center for Gifted Education and Talent Development, an innovative program which uses sophisticated assessment tools and technology to provide scholarships and coursework. He initiated the Rural Schools Program for Gifted Students at the Belin-Blank Center. He felt children from rural schools should have the opportunity to have their talents developed without limits because of school size and geography. Gifted students from rural areas should be provided with scholarships to attend Belin-Blank Center. His support led to the formation of the H.B. Wallace Research Symposium, this Symposium has been internationally acclaimed as the research conference in gifted education. He gave support to many other national and international schools, including Russia and the Cayman Islands. Henry had been honored to receive a Doctorate of Science from Cumberland College in Williamsburg, KY. He was also in the Veterans Hall of Fame and received the ALS Campaign Medal for ''service before self'' in the fight against Lou Gehrig's disease. Henry leaves his wife, Jocelyn, his sister, Jean Wallace Douglas, his children, Henry (wife Cindy and children Jenelle and Kristin), Joan Myers (husband Bernard Lopez and children Raymond Buetens and Julian Buetens), Linda Wallace Gray (husband John), Diane (husband Jeff Yusem and daughter Heather), and his stepchildren, Juliet, Eric, Thomas, Clarice, Marshall, Angus and Alex (wife Robin) Gilchrist. Henry was a visionary, an eccentric, irascible and gentle man who was able to ''chop'' immediately an unworkable plan. He was able to adhere like the strongest glue to an idea whose time had not yet been recognized by the rest of us. Reclusive but enjoying individuals, agnostic but honoring goodness, he always maintained his integrity of heart, brain and soul. Memorial donations may be made to the Wallace Desert Gardens.
      