
        ELDER--R. Duncan. 88, of Cold Spring Harbor, after a long illness, on August 14, 2005. Decorated Naval Veteran. Committed Community Leader. Founder of Paumanack Village. Beloved husband for over 64 years of Frances (nee) Noyes. Loving father of Robert D. (Betsy), Sarah M., and Alexander N. (Jacki). Adoring grandfather of Rebecca, Duncan S., Molly, Henry and Angus. Religious Service to be held at St. John's Church in Cold Spring Harbor on Saturday at 11 AM. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to The Duncan Elder Fund, C/O Huntington Senior Citizens' Housing Committee Inc., 36 North New York Avenue, Huntington, NY 11743, 631-421-5353.
        ELDER--R. Duncan. New York and Phipps Houses have lost a long-time champion of affordable housing for families and the elderly. President of Phipps Houses from 1968 to 1982, Duncan Elder built our company into a fully integrated real estate developer/manager and oversaw development of 2300 units of affordable housing in Manhattan and the South Bronx, plus housing for New York Hospital. A gentle man, Duncan Elder lent his knowledge and leadership to housing advocacy and to the community of Huntington, L.I. where he lived and helped create yet more housing for seniors. Little known to the thousands of families he enabled to live comfortably, he will be remembered with fondness and gratitude by trustees and staff of Phipps Houses. Our sympathies to his wife, Frannie, his children Robert, Sarah and Alexander and five grandchildren. Phipps Houses Ronay Menschel, Chair Adam Weinstein, President
        ELDER--R. Duncan. The Board of Directors and staff of New York Foundation for Senior Citizens deeply mourn the passing of our beloved Vice Chairman, Duncan Elder, and express our sympathy to his wife, Frannie, and their family. A wise and genuinely caring gentleman of exemplary integrity, Duncan's invaluable expertise and support has helped the Foundation develop senior citizen housing and social service programs for over three decades. He was a true friend to so many and will be greatly missed.
      