
        VOGELMAN--Claire. who was known in the fashion world as Claire Newman, passed away at Lenox Hill Hospital on August 7th, 2005. Born in Stamford, CT on October 19th, 1911. She grew up in Westchester County as a child of the Great Depression, she launched her career as a fasion designer in the 1930's by designing bridal and evening gowns. Her fashions appeared in most major department stores nationwide and in Hollywood movies. An avid skier and horsewoman, her many interests took her around the world. After she left the world of fashion she devoted herself to philanthropies with her husband Phillip Vogelman including Federation-UJA where she served in many leadership roles, Shenkar College of Engineering & Design in Israel which she cofounded, The Brookdale Center on Aging and Rockefeller University where she served on the Advisory Council. For ten years she served as President of the Daughters of Jacob Geriatric Center, a 1,000 bed skilled nursing facility in New York. She is survived by one son Dr. Steven Sholem of Phoenix, Arizona and two devoted grandchildren, Scott and Julie Sholem. Her love of life and passion were gifts she left behind. We are saddened by her loss, but celebrate the beautiful memories she gave us. Services will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St on Thursday, August 11th, 2005 at 11:30AM. In lieu of flowers contributions could be made to Federation JDC, Shenkar College of Engineering & Design or Rockefeller University.
        VOGELMAN--Claire. The American Committee for Shenkar College in Israel and Shenkar College of Engineering and Design note with sorrow the passing of our dear friend, Claire Vogelman, Governor and Honorary Fellow of the College, and Past President of the American Committee. Dedicated to enriching education in Israel, she was an active force in promoting new ideas and establishing major centers at the College since its inception. A Lecture Hall in her name marks her steadfast and loyal support to Shenkar. Our sincerest condolences to her son, Dr. Steven Sholem & the family. David Pernick, Chancellor, SCED Stephen Rubin, Chair, Board of Governors Bruce Pernick, Pres., American Committee Prof. Amotz Weinberg, Pres., SCED Charlotte Fainblatt, Exec Dir
      