
        HELTON -- Mary (Goodell), Director Emeritus of the Hoff - Barthelson Music School in Scarsdale, NY, died on August 13, after a long illness, at the age of 78. She was recognized throughout the country as an extraordinary leader in the field of music education. Mrs. Helton joined the faculty of Hoff-Barthelson in 1952. In the course of her twenty-seven year tenure as the Music School's Director, which ended with her retirement in 1999, the school became a respected cultural institution for arts education and performance in the county, as well as one of the largest and most renowned community music schools in the country. Mrs. Helton's Let's Play the Piano, Books 13 was last published in a 1998 revision. Her professional affiliations included the Advisory Boards of New York's Education through Music, Inc., and the Suburban Community Music Center of Madison, New Jersey. She was a past secretary of the New York State Music Teachers' Association and the Music Educators' League of Westchester, and a member of the New York Federation of Music Clubs Program Committee and the National Guild of Community Schools of the Arts. She received the Woman of the Year Award in 1997 from the Zonta Club of the Mount Vernon Area and was recognized by the Westchester Arts Council in 1999 for her artistic vision and leadership. Sigma Alpha Iota, an international music fraternity, named her a National Arts Associate. She was a member of Phi Kappa Phi. Her husband, Charles Helton, and her sister, Margaret Ebersole of Lansing, Michigan, preceded her in death. She is survived by her sister, Muriel Benedict, of San Pedro, California; eight nieces and nephews; and her many dear friends whom she considered her family. A Memorial Concert will be held in her honor at the Hoff-Barthelson Music School on a date to be announced this fall. Donations in her name may be sent to the Mary Helton Scholarship Fund at the HoffBarthelson Music School, 25 School Lane, Scarsdale, New York, 10583.
      