
        TISHMAN--Susan Weisberg. The Board, staff and artists of Lower Manhattan Cultural Council, offer their condolences to the Tishman family on the passing of Susan Tishman. We honor the extraordinary commitment and generosity the Tishmans have shown to our great city. Their work helping LMCC and others rebuild the flourishing community downtown is a profound celebration of life. We extend our deep sympathy.
        TISHMAN--Suzanne Weisberg. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Suzanne Weisberg Tishman, beloved wife of John Tishman and mother of Daniel Tishman, cherished leaders and friends. The Tishman family's passionate concern for humanitarian causes is marked by a profound commitment to education, the environment, and the Jewish community. Their generosity and vision, exemplified by their service to our Real Estate division and our Jewish Communal Network Commission, enriches the lives of those in need in New York, in Israel, and around the globe. We extend our heartfelt condolences to John; to their children: Daniel and his wife, Sheryl; Katherine Blacklock; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        TISHMAN--Suzanne. Suzanne Weisberg Tishman passed away on August 8, 2005 after a prolonged illness. She is survived by her husband, John L. Tishman, and their children, Daniel R. Tishman and Katherine T. Blacklock, Daniel's wife Sheryl, as well as three beloved grandchildren, Joshua and Gabriel Tishman, and Kyle Blacklock. She is also survived by her loving sister, Dorothy Lyon. Services were held privately. Contributions in her memory to the Archaeology Department at The American Museum of Natural History, 81st St and Central Park West, N.Y., N.Y. 10024 would have been meaningful to her and greatly appreciated by her family.
        TISHMAN -- Suzanne Weis berg. The officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of Daniel R. Tishman and the cherished wife of John L. Tishman. Daniel Tishman is Israel Bonds' greater New York chairman, a member of the National Board, and former chairman of the Real Estate and Construction Division. John Tishman is an honorary chairman of the Real Estate & Construction Division. We extend our sincere condolences to them and to the other members of the family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Joshua Matza, President & CEO Burton P. Resnick, Chairman of the Board David Halpern, National Chairman James B. Emden, Chairman, Real Estate & Construction Division
        TISHMAN--Suzanne. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of Daniel Tishman, our good friend and distinguished member of our Board of Overseers. To Dan; to his father, John, and his sister, Katerine Blacklock, and to all the members of the family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        TISHMAN--Suzanne W. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member Suzanne Tishman. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, Pres.
      