
        HOGUE--Mitchell (Mitch) J., age 45 of Galena, IL formerly of New York City, NY died suddenly on Saturday, August 27, 2005 at Mercy Medical Center, Dubuque, IA. He was born on January 23, 1960 in Canton, OH. Mitch attended high school in Avon Lake, OH and then graduated Magna Cum Laude from Hunter College, N.Y.C. He earned a double major: English with Creative Writing and the History of Theater. Mitch was a playwright, producer, director and comedian. He was currently writing a column entitled ''Primary Buzzard'' for the bipartisan e-zine, ''Primary Buzz''. He was also working on a play, ''400 Year Anniversary'' about the founding of Jamestown. Mitch was a member of the Writers Guild of New York and was a staunch member of the Democratic Party. Mitch loved life--he enjoyed politics, traveling and movies. Listening to music, working crossword puzzles, reading and research kept him busy. Mitch's greatest joy was to be with his daughters and his granddaughter, Angelina. He is survived by his parents, Albert Hogue of Tucson, AZ and Antoinnette Hogue of Brook Park, OH, two daughters, Chrissy (Tim) HogueBauman of East Dubuque, IL and Jennifer Hogue of Dubuque, IA, granddaughter, Angelina Hogue-Bauman of East Dubuque, IL, Charlene J. (Michael Schenker) Hogue, NY, NY, Diane M. (A.J.) DeChiara and Kimberly A. Hogue of Estero, FL, a brother, Douglas E. (Terri) Hogue of Brunswick, OH, a half-sister, Katrina Hogue of Tucson, AZ and six nieces & nephews. Visitation from 3:00 to 8:00 PM on Wednesday, August 31 at Behr Funeral Home, 1491 Main St., Dubuque, IA. Services Thursday at the Mueller Memorial Chapel, 2735 Windsor Ave., Dubuque followed by interment at Linwood Cemetery. Contributions may be made to The Mitchell J. Hogue Memorial Fund, c/o Behr Funeral Home, 1491 Main St., Dubuque, IA 52001
        HOGUE--Mitchell (Mitch) J., A unique and wonderful personality, Mitch touched the lives of all of us who were fortunate enough to know him. He joined The New York Times in March of 1993 and worked with several advertising teams, influencing and, in many cases, dramatically changing the way that work and processes were done. For example, he was instrumental in the development of a new technology platform and program for our advertising agencies. Mitch was proud of his Advertising Leadership Award, which was a very well deserved honor and recognition of his many valuable contributions. Playwright, actor, music lover, technology guru, political activist, loyal friend, family man, father and grandfather. Mitch has passed all too soon, but still serves as a wonderful example to us all, to pursue and enjoy all that life has to offer. Perhaps the greatest lesson of all that Mitch taught us was to follow your heart, as he did throughout his life. Everyone who knew him came to realize quickly, how important family and friends were to him. Not only did he raise two extraordinary daughters on his own, he lived true to his promise, always to be close to those he loved. The New York Times Advertising Department
      