
        SCHEUER--James H. August 29, 2005, age 85, peacefully at home in Washington. Member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1964-1972 and 1974-1992. He is survived by his adored and adoring wife, Emily Malino Scheuer, and his loving children, Laura, Elizabeth (PeterJoseph), James (Lorna Payabyab), and John (Robin Lawson). He will be missed and remembered by his grandchildren: Damella and Laurella Dotan; Eleanor, Nicholas, Anna, and Katherine Joseph; James William and David Scheuer; and Sarah and Thomas ''Buster'' Scheuer. He is also survived by numerous siblings, cousins, nephews and nieces, all of whose lives he touched in many ways. Adoring family man, dedicated public servant, musician extraordinaire, lifelong supporter of Israel. He loved desserts, good jokes, family sing-alongs, horse-back riding, and Hopewell. His legacy inspires us, and we will miss him immensely. Funeral services will be private, and a memorial service will be held at a later date. The family will be receiving visitors from 4-8pm on Wednesday and from 123pm on Thursday at 4730 Fieldston Road, Riverdale, NY; and from 6-9pm on Thursday at 610 West End Avenue, NYC. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to: Swarthmore College, 500 College Avenue, Swarthmore, PA 19081.
        SCHEUER--James H. The former congressional staff members to the Honorable James H. Scheuer offer deepest condolences to the Scheuer family and his many friends. Congressman Scheuer was instrumental in protecting the environment, advancing concerns relating to world over-population, fighting crime, bettering health care for all Americans, promoting scientific re search, and consumer protection. His legacy is substantial and the American public has benefited tremendously from his decades of service and leadership in Congress. As staff members, we felt extraordinarily close to Congressman Scheuer and his family. Congressman Scheuer has had significant impact on our careers and lives. He was a superb mentor and trusted friend who will be missed greatly.
        SCHEUER--James H. Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion mourns the death of Congressman Jim Scheuer, dear brother of our beloved Board Member, Richard Scheuer. The Scheuer family, through Si and Helen, Dick and Joan, and their children, and Jim's daughter, Elizabeth, and sonin-law, Peter, has been intrinsically bound with the history of Hebrew Union College. We express our condolences to his family and may they find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. David Ellenson, President Burton Lehman, Chair Board of Governors
      