
        CARLSON -- Arleen Martin. March 10, 1912 - August 4, 2005. Long-time Minnesota philanthropist and Carlson Companies co-founder Arleen Martin Carlson died August 4 at her home in Minneapolis. She was 93. Arleen was preceded in death by her husband, Curtis L. Carlson. Together, in 1938 on a borrowed $55, they founded the Gold Bond Stamp Company which was the precursor of global travel, hospitality and marketing giant Carlson Companies. Carlson brands today include Radisson, Regent, T.G.I. Friday's, Carlson Wagonlit Travel, Carlson Marketing Group and others. Arleen Martin was born March 10, 1912, in Aberdeen, South Dakota, the only child of Charles and Nellie Martin, who later moved to Minneapolis. There, Arleen attended the University of Minnesota where she met Curtis Carlson. The two were married in 1938. A founding Carlson board member and civic leader, Arleen embodied the Carlson family spirit of faith, persistence, hard work and inclusiveness. In 1999, she donated $10 million to the University of Minnesota, continuing a long family tradition of giving to the institution. To date the family's gifts to the school exceed $46 million, and the University's Curtis L. Carlson School of Management is named in their honor. Continuing a long tradition of support for United Way, in 2000 Arleen made a personal gift of $1 million to the United Way's Century Legacy program. Survivors include two daughters: Carlson Foundation President Barbara Carlson Gage and husband Edwin ''Skip'' Gage, Carlson Companies Chair and CEO Marilyn Carlson Nelson and husband Dr. Glen Nelson; seven grandchildren: Christine Gage, Geoffrey Gage and wife Kelly, Richard Gage and wife Britt, Scott Gage and wife Gina, Curtis Nelson and wife Margie, Diana Nelson and husband John Atwater, Wendy Nelson and partner Daisy Mitchell; 14 great-grandchildren and three step-greatgrandchildren; brother-in-law Warren Carlson; sister-in-law Elaine Carlson, and numerous nieces and nephews. Husband Curt and granddaughter Juliet Nelson preceded Arleen in death. Funeral services will be held at 10 A.M., Wednesday, August 10, at Hennepin Avenue United Methodist Church in Minneapolis. Contributions in lieu of flowers may be made to the church, the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota, or the World Childhood Foundation (www.childhood-usa.org), of which Arleen was a founding sponsor.
      