
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. Survived by his loving partner Marcia Soltes, his sons Adam and Rabbi Barnett, his sister Joy Rabinowitz and his four grandchildren, Alexander, Eve, Eli and Hasina. Services Thursday, 11AM, Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 W. 68 St, N.Y. Contributions may be made in his memory to the National Offices of Planned Parenthood and/or the Rabbi Balfour Brickner Early Childhood Center at the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, in Manhattan.
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Emeritus Balfour. In loving memory of Rabbi Emeritus Balfour Brickner. The Stephen Wise Free Synagogue deeply mourns the passing of our beloved leader, friend and rabbi emeritus, Balfour Brickner. Rabbi Brickner was larger than life. He was a passionate fighter for justice and human rights. He was active in all of the great social struggles of the last half century. He marshaled all of his prodigious talents towards the advancement of women's rights and minority rights, the abolition of apartheid and the elimination of hunger and poverty. He believed in coexistence and was active in interfaith relations. He loved the Jewish people and the Jewish state, and worked towards peace and understanding between Jews and Arabs, Israelis and Palestinians. We, who have had the great good fortune to have been blessed with so many beautiful days in his shining presence, thank God for the manifold gifts bestowed upon us. Rabbi Brickner was one of a kind. We shall not gaze upon the likes of him again. Jewish tradition asserts, ''One who is loved by his fellow human beings is loved by God.'' God has welcomed home a faithful servant. May Rabbi Brickner rest in everlasting peace. Zecher Tsaddik LivrachaMay the memory of the righteous one be blessed. Charitable contributions can be made to the Rabbi Balfour Brickner Early Childhood Center at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue and Planned Parenthood Federation of America. Rabbi Ammiel Hirsch, Senior Rabbi Cantor Mark Opatow Ian Benjamin, President
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. Planned Parenthood of New York City's Board, Counsel and staff are deeply saddened by the death of Rabbi Balfour Brickner. As a former member of PPNYC's Board of Directors and an active member of our Religious Leaders' Task Force, Rabbi Brickner was an outstanding advocate for the health and rights of women everywhere. We will long remember and miss Rabbi Brickner's staunch commitment to social justice, and extend our heartfelt sympathies to his family and congregants. Patricia J. Volland, Chair, PPNYC Board of Directors Joan Malin, President and Chief Executive Officer
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. NARAL Pro-Choice New York mourns the loss of Rabbi Balfour Brickner, reproductive rights champion. A longtime supporter of the prochoice movement, he served on NARAL Pro-Choice America's Board of Directors and our Board of Advisors and was a leader in the struggle to legalize abortion in New York State. His commitment, leadership and courage will be deeply missed. We send our heartfelt condolences to his family and all those who were touched by his legacy.
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. The Engelberg Foundation mourns the passing of its Executive Director, Rabbi Balfour Brickner. Balfour's extraordinary compassion for those in need; his strong sense of social justice; and his zest for life have been powerful influences on the Foundation's work since it was founded with his help almost thirteen years. He was our mentor and our dearest friend and will be greatly missed. Alfred and Gail Engelberg
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. We mourn the death of a giant of Reform Judaism whom we were privileged to call special friend and esteemed teacher. Our deepest sympathy to Adam and Rabbi Barney, and to those to whom he was so dear. He was a beacon for all in his beloved Stephen Wise Free Synagogue congregation. We join in celebrating a life well lived. ''Shalom Chaver''. The Grabino Family
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. The board, staff and membership of Family Planning Advocates of New York State are deeply saddened by the death of Rabbi Balfour Brickner. All who worked with this committed advocate for women will miss his leadership and voice for justice. JoAnn M. Smith, President Catherine Abate, Board Chair
        BRICKNER--Balfour. We are so saddened by the loss of Balfour. Our hearts go out to our dear friend, Marcia. Lovingly, Ethel, Eli, and Ava
      