
        HIRSCHFELD--Abraham Made history and will be remembered dearly by family and friends. Born in Poland in 1919. Moved to Israel in 1933. Later joined Haganah to fight for Israeli independence. Emigrated to United States in 1950. Builder of parking facilities throughout Metro area and became affectionately known as the ''garage king'' of New York. Then formed partnership with son Elie Hirschfeld in 1976 to develop important residential, commercial, hotel and sport projects throughout New York area, including Hotel Pennsylvania, West Side Rail Yards, Sports Clubs-61 Street, 404 East 55th St, Apt. Towers, 25 Broad St. Tower, Crowne Plaza Hotel, Park Avenue Court, Grand Sutton and many more. Great civic leader. Publisher of NY Post in 1993. Treasurer of NYS Democratic Party. Member of Tristate Regional Planning Commission. Ran for U.S. Senator, NYS Lieutenant Governor and Manhattan Borough President. Elected City Commissioner of Miami Beach in 1989. Devoted husband to Zipora for 63 years. Survived by son Elie Hirschfeld and wife Dr. Susan Hirschfeld; daughter Rachel Hirschfeld; brother Menashe and wife Judith Hirschfeld; eight grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Service Wednesday 1:15PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. Deepest condolences to our wonderful friends Elie and Susan on the loss of his father, Abe. Dovere Family
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. Our deepest sympathy to our dear friend, Elie Hirschfeld, on the loss of his father Abe Ari Schertz, ARAS Properties
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. Our condolences to Elie and Susan Hirschfeld and family on the loss of his father. The Olson Family
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. Our condolences to Elie and his mother Zipora on the loss of his father Abe Hirschfeld. Plize Family
        HIRSCHFELD--Abraham. His energy and charisma will be deeply missed. My prayers are with Elie and his family. John Kindel
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. Our friend Elie is in our thoughts and prayers as he mourns the loss of his father. Eva and Charles Niks
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. Our prayers are with Elie and Susan and their family during this time of sorrow. Able Partners
        HIRSCHFELD -- Abraham. We extend deepest condolences to Elie Hirschfeld and his mother Zipora on their loss. Deerfield Group
      