
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. on August 1, 2005. Beloved husband of Sandra, devoted son of Min and the late Jack Wasserman. Loving father of Mindee, Craig, Debra, and father-in-law of Marla and Jason. Cherished grandfather of Alison and Jared, dear brother of Adele (William), Rosanne (Al) and brother-inlaw of Randee (and the late Paul). A dedicated and compassionate business leader and philanthropist. We all love you very much. You will be in our hearts forever. Services Thursday 11am at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. We mourn the passing of our long time friend and colleague Bert W. Wasserman, beloved husband of Sandra, father of Mindee, Craig and Marla, Debra and Jason and grandfather of Alison and Jared. We will miss his warmth, humor, advice, generosity and brilliance. We will miss him terribly but we will remember him with fondness for his courage and strength in the face of a debilitating illness, as well as his absolute passion for life (18)-his love of family, his Brooklyn Dodgers, Mets, Knicks, Rangers and our football pool. Alpine Capital and the families of: Oded Aboodi Richard Goldstein Bruce Greenwald Carl Harnick
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. Time Warner Inc. mourns the passing of Bert W. Wasserman, who served with distinction as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Time Warner from 1990 until his retirement in 1995 and served on the Board of Directors of Time Warner and its predecessor company, Warner Communications, Inc., from 1981 to 1995. He joined Kinney National, which later became Warner Communications, in 1966 and had been an officer of that company since 1970. We extend our condolences to his wife, Sandra; son, Craig; daughters, Mindee and Debra; and his entire family. Dick Parsons and the Time Warner family
        WASSERMAN -- Bert W. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz mourns the death of Bert W. Wasserman, father of our partner, Craig M. Wasserman. Bert was a major participant in the business, education and philanthropic activities of our city and our nation. He was the architect and guardian of the financial structure of Warner Communications and played a key role in the merger that created Time-Warner. He commanded the respect and the regard of all with whom he worked. We extend our deepest condolences to the entire Wasserman family. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. To the best father anyone could ask for--you have been a blessing in our lives and we will always cherish your great legacy of love, compassion, generosity and accomplishment. You have been the pillar of strength to our family and we are adrift without you. You did it ''your way'' and made us so very proud. We will always love you and we promise to take care of your ''Sandy''--the love of your life for more than 50 years. We miss you so very much. All our love, Mindee, Craig, Debra, Marla and Jason
        WASSERMAN--Bert. Arotech Corporation notes with profound sorrow the unexpected passing of its Board member and former chairman of its Audit Committee, Bert Wasserman. Bert's contributions to Arotech--his financial acumen, his unwavering ethical compass, and his trenchant wit--will be sorely missed. May his family find comfort in the memories and contributions, both personal and professional, that Bert leaves behind. Robert S. Ehrlich, Chairman Arotech Corporation
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. We miss your smile, your quick mind, your fighting spirit and fidelity to family and friends. You showed by example the importance of Tikkun Olam. We will never be able to hear ''My Way'' without thinking of you. Our love and condolences to Sandy, Mindee, Craig and Marla, Debra and Jason, Mom and all of your family. Fran, Carl & Family
        WASSERMAN--Bert W. To the grandfather who spoiled us rotten and who we will miss more than all the Haagen-Daz ice cream in the world. You taught us the importance of family and we will always love our Papa Bert. Love, Alison and Jared
        WASSERMAN -- Bert. We loved you and will miss you. You had a heart of gold and an intellect to match. During your long and terrible illness, you never lost your sense of humor. Our condolences to Sandy, Craig, Mindy, Debbie, and grandchildren. Dottie and Marty
        WASSERMAN -- Bert. So much love has left the world, so much love remains. Skippy and Manny Gerard
      