
        JENNINGS--Peter. The Board of Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague Peter Jennings. Peter joined the Carnegie Hall Board of Trustees in 1992 and was a committed and faithful friend throughout the years. Peter also served as a gracious and erudite ambassador for Carnegie Hall as anchor of our Opening Night broadcasts on PBS, sharing with viewers across the country the magic and thrill of these gala performances. All of us at Carnegie Hall will miss his warm and welcoming presence. We express our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Kayce; to his children Elizabeth and Christopher; and to his entire extended family, including his colleagues at ABC News. Sanford I. Weill Chairman of the Board
        JENNINGS--Peter. The Board, staff and artists of Jazz at Lincoln Center mourn the loss of our good friend and fellow jazz lover, Peter Jennings. His passion for this music, commitment to the artists who perform it, and support for jazz programming played an important role in the creation of our new home at Columbus Circle. We will miss him. Our thoughts are with Kayce and his entire family. Lisa Schiff, Chairman Wynton Marsalis, Artistic Director Derek Gordon, President and CEO Katherine E. Brown, Executive Director
        JENNINGS--Peter. The Board of Directors and officers of Goddard Riverside Community Center are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend Peter Jennings. Peter was an avid supporter of the Annual Goddard Riverside New York Book Fair which helped raise funds for our work. While his reach was global, he never lost sight of local needs and concerns. He understood and believed firmly in the idea of community and was a strong advocate for our our less fortunate neighbors. We will greatly miss him. Stanley Heckman President, Board of Directors Stephan Russo, Exec. Dir.
        JENNINGS--Peter. Women in Need, Inc., mourns the passing of our dear friend, Peter Jennings. We will miss your warm heart, quick wit, brilliant smile, piercing telligence and kind words. Our deepest condolences to his wife, Kayce Freed and his children. With love from all our families, staff and Board of Directors. Bonnie Stone President & CEO Charlotte Prince Chair, Board of Directors
        JENNINGS--Peter. While your tennis pals will miss you even more than your viewers will miss you, the Jennings Cup will be a timeless reminder of the wonderful times we shared together. Clive, Edgar, Charlie, Matt, Peter M., Skip, Ken, David, Freddy and Avery
      