
        HAHN--Philip J. Born March 31, 1916. He passed away on September 8, 2005 at the age of 89. He was raised in Brooklyn where, as a youth, his intelligence and bright personality quickly shown through. After Pearl Harbor, Phil joined the Army and served in Military Intelligence doing signals work and code breaking. His unit was stationed in Africa, Italy, and Austria over the course of the war. His time in Italy began his love affair with that country. He spoke Italian fluently, traveled often to Rome and was, to his great pride and satisfaction, a Cavaliere of the Italian Republic. After the war, Phil returned home where he joined the family firm of M. Fabrikant & Sons in New York City. An international diamond merchant, Phil traveled widely in the world, visiting Europe, Africa and Asia. Often he would circumnavigate the globe on his business voyages, to his great pleasure and the amazement of his friends and family. Phil was a lover of good food, fine wine, and great art and literature. He was multi-lingual, speaking French and other languages in addition to Italian. Phil was a connoisseur of culture and enjoyed life to its fullest. He contributed to the arts in New York City, supporting Carnegie Hall, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Metropolitan Opera. He was also a generous philanthropist, giving to many charities through his charitable foundation, and he endowed the upkeep of a portion of Central Park. New York City was his true love; it gave him great strength and was the object of his passions. He was devoted to his sisters, his nephews, and their children all of whom will miss him dearly. Phil is survived by his sister and brother-inlaw, Bobbie and Irving Rosenzweig, his nephews Scott and Rick Frishman and their children, and his nephews Paul and Jim Rosenzweig and their children. Funeral services will take place on Sunday September 11, 2005 at 11:30 A.M at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, New York. Donations should be made in his memory to a charity of your choice. $(6$)HAHN--Philip J. The employees of M. Fabrikant & Sons, Inc., mourn the loss of our Co-Chairman of the Board, Mr. Philip J. Hahn. Following his distinguished career in the Army during World War II, Mr. Hahn devoted himself to the growth and development of the firm to its status as the worldwide industry leader. He was a titan of the diamond industry who pioneered the early days of the markets in Tel Aviv, Mumbai, and Antwerp where he established manufacturing and trading offices for the firm. He was a positive presence in our New York office until his demise at the age of 89. We mourn his loss, and will miss his wit and wisdom. We extend our condolences to his family. $(6$)HAHN--Philip J. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and colleague. His many years of commitment, dedication and leadership in the diamond industry will be sorely missed. Diamond Manufacturers & Importers Assoc. of America
      