
        LUCE--Henry III. On September 8, 2005, age 80, on Fishers Island, NY, of cardiac arrest. He was the husband of Leila Hadley Luce, the father of Lila Frances Luce, Ph.D., and Henry Christopher Luce, stepfather of Arthur T. Hadley III, M.D., Victoria Smitter Barlow, Matthew Smitter Eliott, D.V.M., and Caroline Smitter Nicholson, Ph.D., and brother of Peter Paul Luce. Born in New York City in 1925, he was the elder son of Time Inc.'s late co-founder and editor-in-chief, Henry Robinson Luce, and the late Lila Hotz Tyng. He served in the United States Navy and graduated from the Brooks School and Yale University. With Time Inc. for thirty years, he was the publisher of Fortune and Time, vice president for corporate planning, and a member of Time Inc.'s and Time Warner's board of directors. He was a trustee of Princeton Theological Seminary, the Center of Theological Inquiry, The College of Wooster, Brooklyn Museum of Art, A Christian Ministry in the National Parks, Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, NewYork Historical Society, United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia, Yale-China Association, and a director of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations. He served as president of the New Museum of Contemporary Art, chairman of the board of China Institute in America, president of The Pilgrims of the U.S., and an elder of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church. For forty-seven years, he was a director of the Henry Luce Foundation,serving as president and then as chairman and C.E.O. until 2002. Memorial services will be held in New York City and Fishers Island on dates to be announced. $(6$)LUCE--Henry III. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Brooklyn Museum record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed Trustee, benefactor, and great friend Hank Luce, and extend heartfelt condolences to his wife Leila, and his daughter and son, Lila and Kit. The Luce Center for American Art at the Museum stands in his memory, and the Museum's highest honor the Augustus Graham Medal, was awarded to Hank Luce in recognition of his outstanding commitment to the Brooklyn Museum. He will be greatly missed by all. Robert S. Rubin, Chair Arnold L. Lehman, Director $(6$)LUCE--Henry III. The directors and staff of the Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. deeply mourn the passing of their longtime colleague who served as chairman and C.E.O from 1990 to 2002, having been president since 1958. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Leila Hadley Luce, his brother, Peter Paul Luce, his children, Lila Luce and H. Christopher Luce, and other family members. We salute his spirited leadership, unstinting loyalty, and distinctive contributions to American philanthropy. Margaret Boles Fitzgerald, Chair Michael Gilligan, President $(6$)LUCE--Henry III. We mourn the passing of our good friend and president. His record of service in fostering fellowship between Americans, British and all English-speaking peoples, addressing current national and international issues, consistently emphasized enduring historic, cultural, economic, and social bonds. We will miss Hank's leadership, wise counsel and dedication. To his family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. The Directors, Officers, staff, & members of The Pilgrims of the United States 122 E. 58th St, NY, NY 10021 $(6$)LUCE--Henry III. China Institute in America sends its deepest condolences to the family and to the staff members of the Luce Foundation of former Chairman of the Board and Trustee, Henry Luce III. Mr. Luce dedicated many generous years of service, fine leadership, and support to China Institute. We acknowledge his passion for China and the Luce Scholars. We will miss him greatly. The Board of Trustees of China Institute in America $(6$)LUCE--Henry III. The Browning School notes with sadness the death of Henry Luce III, Class of 1942. Recipient of Browning's Alumnus Achievement Award, he leaves the legacy of the Henry Luce III Fine Arts Centes. Our thoughts are with his family. James B. Chanos President of the Board Stephen M. Clement, III Headmaster Jeffrey M. Landes '83 President, Alumni Assoc. $(6$)LUCE--Henry III. The Board of Trustees of the Central Park Conservancy mourns the loss of Henry Luce III--a longtime friend and generous benefactor of the Conservancy. We send our heartfelt condolences to Leila and the family. The Board of Trustees Central Park Conservancy A.J.C. Smith, Chairman Douglas Blonsky, President $(6$)LUCE--Henry III. The Council Advisory Board, and Director of the National Academy Museum and School of Fine Arts mourn the loss of their esteemed board member and long time supporter of American art. Susan Shatter, President J. Steven Manolis, Advisory Board Chair Annette Blaugrund, Director $(6$)LUCE--Henry III. The 503 Luce Scholars thank you for your life long mentoring and for the year in Asia that changed our lives.
      