
        LEVY--Norman F. Norman (dad), thank you for the treasure of a loving family (Frank and Jeanne) and the example of a joyous life and a dignified death. Love, Hallie
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. The Board of Directors and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are profoundly saddened by the death of our long-serving, devoted, enthusiastic, goodhearted and most generous Director. Norman discovered the theater in the autumn of his life and crammed a lifetime's worth of pleasure in participating in the creation and sustaining of a theater in a relatively brief period of time. He loved our theater and the theater loved him back. All of us will miss his wise counsel, his smile, and his laughter. John B. Beinecke, Chairman Andre Bishop, Artistic Dir Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer Hattie Jutagir, Director of Development
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. The Officers and Directors of the Realty Foundation of NY mourn the loss of our dear Norman. A director of the foundation for many years, Norman was most generous in his spirit, his extraordinary generosity, and his unfailing belief in our philanthropic goals. His love for his family and pure enjoyment of life ran deep. Norman's energetic spirit was contagious, his laughter lengendary. Norman, we shall miss you. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his children Jeanne, Francis, his grandchildren and extended family. Larry A. Silverstein, Chairman Jerry L. Cohen, President Officers and Directors
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman. The Gural family mourns the passing of our much loved friend and partner, Norman Levy. For as long as we can remember Aaron and Norman were a team. He made us laugh, he showed us how to enjoy life and his dedication to his late wife and children were an inspiration to us all. His achievements and philanthropic endeavors over the long years of his life were legendary. He was truly a unique individual and words cannot describe how much he will be missed by Aaron and all of our family. Our hearts go out to Jeannie, Frank and his entire family. Aaron, Jeffrey, Jane, Barbara and Eric
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman. Newmark & Company mourns the passing of our good friend and valued client, Norman Levy. Norman was a legend and a true visionary in our field. His energy and devotion to his family and the many charitable organizations that he supported was an inspiration to us all. He was truly one of a kind, and all of us at Newmark will miss him greatly. We extend our condolences to Jeannie, Frank and his entire family. Jeffrey Gural and the Newmark family
        $(6$)LEVY -- Norman F. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of Norman F. Levy, an honorary trustee and devoted congregant. We extend to his entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft, President
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. A giant has fallen. Larger than life, he had extraordinary humor, zest and appreciation for living. This brilliant business leader and philanthropist had such humanity. He wanted it said, ''He died with a smile.'' Nachum feivel: our closest friend and guru. Naomi and Maks
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. One of a kind who will be missed by all who knew him. Our sincere condolences to his children, Jeanne and Frank, and their entire family. Barry Jacobson, Larry Wohl, and Frank Zimbaro Joseph P. Day Realty Corp.
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. I will forever miss my friend and partner, and extend my sincerest condolences to his children, Frank and Jeanne, and grandchildren. His memory will live with me always. Larry A. Wohl and Family
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. A legend in the real estate industry is now gone. His accomplishments and passion for life and family were unique. How lucky we were to have shared some recent times together. Adrianne and Jerry L. Cohen
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family and to his ever-loyal sidekick, Terry. Richard Fabricant David L. Deitz Naomi Glauberman
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. A true gentleman, a great patron, a wise counsel and a giant among men. My thoughts are with Jeannie, Francis and dear Carmen. Dallas Boesendahl
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. To my employer and friend, until we meet again, stay out of trouble. Love, Terry
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. It was a privilege and a great joy to be his friend for 40 short years. Hans and Ruth
      