
        RUDERMAN--I. Warren. 85, crystal research pioneer. Of Demarest, died August 29, 2005, at the age of 85. The second child of Jack and Mollie Ruderman, he was born in Brooklyn, New York in 1920. At an early age he fell in love with chemistry--an affair lasting throughout his life. In 1940 he graduated from City College with a B.S degree. He earned his M.S. at NYU and Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute, and received a PhD from Columbia University in 1949. He worked cooperatively with other scientists on the Manhattan Project, and continued collaborative scientific research for many more years. He combined his scientific talents with business acumen starting a series of advanced technology research and development corporations. In 1956 he founded Isomet, dedicated to the research and production of acousto-optical devices utilized in laser instrumentation. He left Isomet in 1973 and formed a new corporation, Inrad, again specializing in laser optics. In collaboration with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, he pioneered the science of creating very large crystals to focus laser light to achieve the extremely high temperatures necessary to generate fusion. After retiring from Inrad in 2000, he started a research company in conjunction with Cornell University to investigate the use of laser light for treatment of vocal cord tumors. His many scientific awards include election as a Fellow in the NY Academy of Science, and membership in Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi, the American Physical Society, the American Chemical Society, and the Optical Society of America. He was awarded 18 U.S. and foreign patents, authored numerous scientific articles and gave invited chemical and physical society lectures in the U.S., Europe, China, and Japan. In 1943 he met his other lifelong love, Carol Schmied, a master's candidate at the Columbia School of Social Work and in 1945 they married. He and Carol raised four children and have 12 grandchildren. They celebrated their 60th anniversary in June of this year. In addition to his scientific achievements he led a balanced life of civic and family interests. He was a trustee of the Demarest Baptist Church. He played tennis with the ''Tenafly Monday Night Irregulars.'' He enjoyed travel, gardening, theater, music, and visiting with devoted children and grandchildren. He touched many lives, and those who knew him will always remember his warmth, wit, and intelligence. He is survived by his wife Carol, his children Genevieve, William, Clifford, and Barbara, his sister Florence, and his 12 grandchildren. He will be sorely missed by his family, his many friends, and former co-workers and colleagues. Memorial service 3 PM Saturday, October 1, Demarest United Methodist Church, 109 Hardenburgh Avenue. Memorial donations may be made to the Tenafly Nature Center, 313 Hudson Avenue, Tenafly, NJ 07627.
      