
        PIERCE--Gerald G., MD. A retired ophthalmologist died at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida on September 8, 2005 at the age of 74. He resided there since retiring in 1990. He was a graduate of the University of Oklahoma School of Medicine in 1956 and did his internship at St. Vincent's Hospital of the City of New York followed by two years of service in the Medical Corps of the U.S. Navy. Three years of residency in ophthalmology at the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary followed a year in basic sciences in ophthalmology at New York University. He practiced general ophthalmology in New York City from 1963 until his retirement in 1990. He was on the staff of the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary as an attending ophthalmologist and adjunct professor of ophthalmology at New York Medical College and associate attending ophthalmologist at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was a diplomate of the American Board of Ophthalmology and a member and past president of the New York Ophthalmological Society. Before retiring he was a member of the Surgical Advisory Board of the Ophthalmic Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem. Dr. Pierce was a member of the Racquet and Tennis Club of New York, the PGA Golf Club of Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, the Monmouth Boat Club of Red Bank, New Jersey, Mount Anthony Country Club in Vermont and the Order of Saint John's of Jerusalem. He was predeceased by his beloved wife, Belinda, who died in 1992. He was blessed with 2 stepchildren, Lucinda Jewell (Mrs. Peter Donohoe) and Pliny Jewell IV (Elizabeth Paley) and 3 step grandchildren all of the Boston area. He is survived by a brother, Thomas (Marilyn) and a sister Charlotte (Mrs Wm. Lauric) both of the Denver area and six nieces and nephews. A Latin Choral Mass celebrating his life will be conducted at the Holy Ghost Church in Denver, Colorado at the convenience of the family. Cremains will be interred in the family plot in Arlington, Vermont. A toast to his life at your convenience would be appreciated. Life is changed, not ended.
      