
        LEVY--Norman F. On September 9, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Betty. Loving father of Jeanne Levy-Hinte & Francis Levy, Hallie Cohen, Ken Church & Jeffrey LevyHinte. Adoring grandfather of Zeno, Titus, Yunus. You were a beautiful father and inspiration, with an incredible optimism and love of life. You never gave up on anything. You will be greatly missed by your family, your friends and all who knew you. Service Sunday, 1:15 pm, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers contributions to charities associated with the New Orleans disaster will be appreciated. $(6$)LEVY -- Norman F. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Norman F. Levy, an outstanding philanthropist and dedicated member of the Board of Trustees. His personal commitment to Mount Sinai was extraordinary and included generous support for rebuilding the hospital, Parkinson's disease, cardiology, scleroderma and innovative programs critical to the growth of science and health care. Norman Levy leaves a legacy of outstanding contributions to Mount Sinai. His generosity, compassion and loyalty to Mount Sinai will long be remembered. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his children, Francis Levy and Jeanne Levy-Hinte and to the entire famliy. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., President and CEO $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. The Board of Directors and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are profoundly saddened by the death of our long-serving, devoted, enthusiastic, goodhearted and most generous Director. Norman discovered the theater in the autumn of his life and crammed a lifetime's worth of pleasure in participating in the creation and sustaining of a theater in a relatively brief period of time. He loved our theater and the theater loved him back. All of us will miss his wise counsel, his smile, and his laughter. John B. Beinecke, Chairman Andre Bishop, Artistic Dir Bernard Gersten, Executive Producer Hattie Jutagir, Director of Development $(6$)LEVY--Norman. The Gural family mourns the passing of our much loved friend and partner, Norman Levy. For as long as we can remember Aaron and Norman were a team. He made us laugh, he showed us how to enjoy life and his dedication to his late wife and children were an inspiration to us all. His achievements and philanthropic endeavors over the long years of his life were legendary. He was truly a unique individual and words cannot describe how much he will be missed by Aaron and all of our family. Our hearts go out to Jeannie, Frank and his entire family. Aaron, Jeffrey, Jane, Barbara and Eric $(6$)LEVY--Norman. Newmark & Company mourns the passing of our good friend and valued client, Norman Levy. Norman was a legend and a true visionary in our field. His energy and devotion to his family and the many charitable organizations that he supported was an inspiration to us all. He was truly one of a kind, and all of us at Newmark will miss him greatly. We extend our condolences to Jeannie, Frank and his entire family. Jeffrey Gural and the Newmark family $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. A giant has fallen. Larger than life, he had extraordinary humor, zest and appreciation for living. This brilliant business leader and philanthropist had such humanity. He wanted it said, ''He died with a smile.'' Nachum feivel: our closest friend and guru. Naomi and Maks $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. The passing of Norman F. Levy, my mentor, associate, and friend will be deeply felt by all those who were fortunate and privileged to have known him as I was. Norman L. Brickell $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. To our dearest friend, confidant and partner, you will be sorely missed. Elinor Wohl, Richard J. Brickell and the entire Wohl family $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. To my employer and friend, until we meet again, stay out of trouble. Love, Terry
      