
        HERMAN--Joshua R. Devoted husband to Melissa, adored father of Dylan and Olivia. Treasured son of Arline and the late Howard, cherished brother of Rachel & Andy Scheff. Dearly loved uncle, nephew, cousin & friend. Funeral services today, 10AM, at Schoem's Menorah Chapel, Paramus, NJ. Contributions can be made to the Howard R. Herman Fund at the Fair Lawn Jewish Center, Valley Hospice, or the Bergen County YJCC.
        $(6$)HERMAN--Joshua R. A well liked and respected jeweler in New York's Diamond District passed away on Sunday, September 11, 2005. He will be deeply missed by all. His charm, grace and charisma made all feel welcome in the Diamond District. His knowledge of jewelry learned through years of working with his father Howard provided his clients with unmatched quality and service. Our friend and colleague Joshua served the past two years as a member of the board of directers of the 47th Street Business Improvement District. His input into the programs that the organization developed have helped to make the Diamond District the best place to shop for jewelry. His love of the Diamond District and unparalleled optimism will be greatly missed. The 47th Street Business Improvement District expresses its profound and deep sympathy to the Herman family. We will miss Joshua but he will always be in our hearts.
        $(6$)HERMAN -- Joshua. Our heartfelt sympathy to the family of Joshua Herman OBM. Radio City Synagogue mourns the loss of, and pays tribute to, our devoted President and dear friend for his dedication, devotion and concern for the welfare of our Congregation. His love of Torah, Israel and the Jewish people assures him an honorable place in his heavenly abode. His beautiful smile, wonderful demeanor, great personal warmth and sterling character will be greatly missed by all. Rabbi Jonah Weinberg Rabbi Moshe Weinberg and the entire Congregation
        $(6$)HERMAN--Joshua. ''Death be not proud...For those whom thou thinkest thou dost overthrow Die not....''. John Donne, Sonnet: Death. We cannot begin to understand why Josh too has been taken from his family and loved ones, but sweet and eternally optimistic Josh will always live in our hearts and memories. We are deeply saddened and convey sincere condolences to Melissa, Dylan, and Olivia, to Josh's mother, Arline, and sister, Rachel, to our beloved partner, Paul (and Malka) Herman, and to the entire family. Herrick, Feinstein LLP
        $(6$)HERMAN--Joshua R. Our dear cousin. It has been our great fortune to have had Josh in our lives; to experience his deep love of family and his exceptional passion for life. He was an adoring father, and shared his bountiful kindness and caring with all. Josh-your soul is a rare gem-we will love you forever. Ingrid, Michelle, James, Murry and Tali
        $(6$)HERMAN--Joshua R. Our dear nephew. Our hearts are broken. We will miss your love of life and fun, your humor, your sweetness and your extraordinary devotion to family. In the most trying times you have been a tower of strength and optimism for all of us. Rest in peace. Aunt Lovey & Uncle Murray Uncle Paul & Aunt Malka
        $(6$)HERMAN--Joshua R. We were blessed with a childhood of love and laughter which grew with us into adulthood. You shared your sweetness, sense of humor, and love with us everyday. We will always love and miss you. Happ Motoring. Love, Rachel, Andy, Matthew and Lauren
        $(6$)HERMAN--Joshua R. You have been a joy since the day you were born. I couldn't have been prouder of the child you were and the man you became. Your devotion, love and courage guided you through life and will be with me always. Love, Mommy
        $(6$)HERMAN--Joshua R. The staff and tenants of the Fifth Avenue Jewelers Exchange express their sincere sympathy to the family of Josh Herman. A true mensch, 47th Street will miss him.
        $(6$)HERMAN--Joshua R. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and employer. His warmth and kindness will be missed by all. Midtown Vault Corp
      