
        LUCE--Henry III. On September 8, 2005, age 80, on Fishers Island, NY, of cardiac arrest. He was the husband of Leila Hadley Luce, the father of Lila Frances Luce, Ph.D., and Henry Christopher Luce, stepfather of Arthur T. Hadley III, M.D., Victoria Smitter Barlow, Matthew Smitter Eliott, D.V.M., and Caroline Smitter Nicholson, Ph.D., and brother of Peter Paul Luce. Born in New York City in 1925, he was the elder son of Time Inc.'s late co-founder and editor-in-chief, Henry Robinson Luce, and the late Lila Hotz Tyng. He served in the United States Navy and graduated from the Brooks School and Yale University. With Time Inc. for thirty years, he was the publisher of Fortune and Time, vice president for corporate planning, and a member of Time Inc.'s and Time Warner's board of directors. He was a trustee of Princeton Theological Seminary, the Center of Theological Inquiry, The College of Wooster, Brooklyn Museum of Art, A Christian Ministry in the National Parks, Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, NewYork Historical Society, United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia, Yale-China Association, and a director of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations. He served as president of the New Museum of Contemporary Art, chairman of the board of China Institute in America, president of The Pilgrims of the U.S., and an elder of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church. For forty-seven years, he was a director of the Henry Luce Foundation,serving as president and then as chairman and C.E.O. until 2002. Memorial services will be held in New York City and Fishers Island on dates to be announced.
        $(6$)LUCE--Henry III. The directors and staff of the Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. deeply mourn the passing of their longtime colleague who served as chairman and C.E.O from 1990 to 2002, having been president since 1958. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Leila Hadley Luce, his brother, Peter Paul Luce, his children, Lila Luce and H. Christopher Luce, and other family members. We salute his spirited leadership, unstinting loyalty, and distinctive contributions to American philanthropy. Margaret Boles Fitzgerald, Chair Michael Gilligan, President
        $(6$)LUCE--Henry III. What a great team that truly made a difference in the world. Hank and Leila. Knowing Leila, that shall continue for years to come. Dallas Boesendahl
      