
        MANGANELLI -- Raymond Michael, wonderful husband, father, grandfather, and brother, died on September 21st at his home in Hillside, New Jersey, surrounded by his family. Dr. Manganelli was born on January 15, 1921, in Elizabeth, New Jersey, to Louis and Concettina Manganelli. He graduated from Thomas Jefferson High School in Elizabeth, N.J., and then earned a B.S. degree from The Ohio State University. He married Filomena Rotolo on June 17, 1945; they recently celebrated their 60th wedding anniversary with their family. After working at the Schering Corporation, he went on to have a distinguished 57 - year career at Rutgers University as a Professor and later as a Professor Emeritus. Dr. Manganelli received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Environmental Science at Rutgers, and became a pioneer, an educator, and an innovator in the fields of Air, Water, and Noise Pollution Studies. He was in the forefront in developing cutting-edge environmental education programs and in performing and publishing state-of-the-art research, and had the unique ability and distinguished record of successfully predicting where the demand for information and instruction would develop. There are many examples of his pioneering efforts. In the early 1950's, he was the first in the United States to develop a Graduate level Air Pollution Training Program. He was a pioneer and an early innovator in the study of noise pollution as it relates to health in the workplace. Many of the most prominent professionals in the United States working in the Environmental field from 1950 to the present were students of Dr. Manganelli. Dr. Manganelli was appointed to the New Jersey Clean Air Council by every Governor for the last 40 years, and served for the entire time as a Council member and for a time as its Chair. He has received numerous honors, awards, and citations for this service and for his distinguished accomplishments and service to many professional organizations, including the United States Environmental Protection Agency; the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection; the Air, the Water, and the Noise Pollution Control Associations; the American Industrial Hygiene Association; and Rutgers University. Dr. Manganelli's devotion to teaching and advising generations of undergraduate and graduate students earned him numerous teaching awards and led to the formation of several scholarships in his name, among them the Raymond M. Manganelli Scholarship awarded each year since 1992 at Rutgers University. Dr. Manganelli led a life characterized by a colleague at Rutgers as ''remarkably balanced.'' His passions included his family, Rutgers, Civil War history, 6mile-per-day jogging, educational and environmental issues, things Italian, and Ohio State football. Dr. Manganelli was an active member of Holy Spirit Roman Catholic Church of Union, N.J. He is survived by Filomena, his beloved wife of 60 years; son and daughter-in-law, Dr. Raymond L. and Cathy Manganelli of Manhasset, N.Y.; daughter and son-in-law, Alida and Larry Karas of Hillside, N.J.; four grandchildren, Thomas and Christopher Manganelli, and Michael and Nicole Karas; a brother, Michael Manganelli; and sisters, Emily Davis and Dorothy Sutherland, and their families, as well as the family of his late sister, Margarita King. The Funeral will be from McCracken Funeral Home, 1500 Morris Avenue, Union, on Monday at 8:30am. Funeral Mass at Holy Spirit Roman Catholic Church (corner of Morris Avenue and Suburban Road in Union) at 9:30 am. Interment will be at Fairview Cemetery in Westfield, N.J. The family will receive friends at the McCracken Funeral Home on Saturday, 2-4 & 7-9 pm, and Sunday, 15pm. In lieu of flowers, the family would appreciate donations to the ''Raymond M. Manganelli Scholarship Award,'' The Rutgers University Foundation, Winants Hall, 7 College Avenue, New Brunswick, New Jersey 08901-1261.
      