
        LEVY--Norman F. In loving memory of my father Norman F. Levy. I would like to express my deepest deepest gratitude and love to Terry McDonnell who gave her heart and soul to make my father and all those around him happy. Jeanne Levy-Hinte
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. In loving memory of Norman F. Levy. We would like to express our immense gratitude and love to our wonderful Terry. Jeanne Levy-Hinte Ken Church
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourn the loss of a wonderful human being, a legendary leader in the building of New York City and its economy, and a caring and generous philanthropist. He was instrumental in securing the real estate industry's support in the College of Medicine's earliest days and, with his late wife, Betty, became an Einstein Founder and Cancer Research Donor. On the occasion of YU's Centennial in 1987, they established the Betty and Norman F. Levy Foundation Fellowship at our Bernard Revel Graduate School of Jewish Studies and, more recently, the Norman F. Levy Lobby at 215 Lexington Avenue on our Israel Henry Beren Campus was dedicated in his honor. Our condolences to his children, Frances Levy and Jeanne Levy-Hinte, and to the entire family. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees Albert Einstein College of Medicine Ira M. Millstein, Chairperson Board of Overseers Dominick P. Purpura, MD The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Norman Levy, a respected leader and cherished friend whose lifetime of commitment included a deep devotion to the Jewish community, the arts, and educational concerns. Norman's generosity and broad-reaching philanthropic interests overflowed with the spirit of tikkun olam and included his exceptional years of service to our Real Estate division. That enduring legacy, which strengthened our network of agencies and touched Jewish lives throughout the globe, is continued through his family's passionate involvement in humanitarian causes. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Norman's beloved children: Jeanne Levy-Hinte and Francis Levy, Hallie Cohen, Ken Church, and Jeffrey Levy-Hinte; to his grandchildren; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of friend and Board member Norman Levy. He provided wisdom and generous support to the Institute over the years. We send our heartfelt condolences to his famiy and friends. Robert B. Machinist, Chairman, American Committee Dr. Albert Willner, President, American Committee Martin S. Kraar, Exec V.P., American Committee Stuart Eizenstat, Chairman, Weizmann Institute Prof. Ilan Chet, President, Weizmann Institute
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Life Member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. Richard Katcher, President Neda Birbrower, Secretary
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. My mentor and dear friend of 40 years. Your spirit and love of life have touched and changed all who knew you. You taught me so much. I'll cherish our relationship forever. Bernie Madoff
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. One of a kind who will be missed by all who knew him. Our sincere condolences to his children, Jeanne and Frank, and their entire family. Barry Jacobson, Larry Wohl, and Frank Zimbaro Joseph P. Day Realty Corp.
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. I will forever miss my friend and partner, and extend my sincerest condolences to his children, Frank and Jeanne, and grandchildren. His memory will live with me always. Larry A. Wohl and Family
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. A family friend for fifty years who was always there for advice, support, and friendship. A giant of a man in character and in industry who will be missed by all who knew him. The Estreich family
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. We extend our deepest condolences to the Levy family. The way Norman lived his life should serve as an inspiration for us all. The Madoff Family
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. Deepest condolences to Jeanne, Frank and family. Thank you Norman for being my mentor and friend. You showed me the way. Tim Farrell
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. With my deepest sympathy to the entire Levy family on the loss of their patriarch. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him. Dennis P. Strid
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. A true gentleman, a great patron, a wise counsel and a giant among men. My thoughts are with Jeannie, Francis and dear Carmen. Dallas Boesendahl
        $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. My friend and partner. As you did in life your memory will inspire me forever. Eric L.Waldron
      