
        LEVY -- Abraham Chaim (Hy), 80, of Brooklyn and Boca Raton, Florida, after a short, gallant struggle with ALS, at home in Brooklyn. Born in Jerusalem, Hy immigrated to the United States at age 12 along with his parents and six sisters. A peaceful and peace-loving man, Hy served his nations proudly in times of crisis, in the US Army in World War II and in the Israeli War of Independence. Hy was married for almost 54 rich and productive years to Mildred (Glaser). Hy was active in the Bnai Brith. Young Israel of Bedford Bay, and served for many years as the president of Kings Bay II cooperative apartments. At age 40 Hy became a proud college graduate, after entering the teaching force in the New York City public school system, where he used his skilled hands and generous heart in making industrial arts a favorite class for young people in the South Bronx and Coney Island. After retirement, Hy and Mildred moved to Florida, where they continued to give, and to benefit from the people around them. They volunteered at the West Boca hospital, and sang in the Yiddish Folk Chorus of Palm Beach County. He was a lifelong athlete, reaching the semi-pro ranks as a soccer player and excelling at tennis. Hy's proudest accomplishment was his work as a founding member of Congregation Torah Ohr in Boca Raton. Hy's proudest connections were to his family. His memory will be a blessing to Efrat Frayda Levy and Dan Bernstein, to Steven & Beena Levy, to Rachel Levy, Jaime Levy, Dara Levy-Bernstein, Jacob Levy, Meirav LevyBernstein, Revital LevyBernstein. He will also be remembered with great love by Yona Linder, Zipporah Kessel, Shoshana and Jack Yarmosky, Pnina Engel, and Miriam and Hal Rein, by many nephews and nieces, and by countless friends. Funeral services will be held Thursday September 8th at Boulevard-Riverside Chapels, 1895 Flatbush Ave (at Ave L) Brooklyn, at 1:15 PM. Shiva will be observed at the Levy home in Brooklyn. Donations in Hy's Memory can be made to Congregation Torah Ohr.
      