
        SCHEUER--James H. August 29, 2005, age 85, peacefully at home in Washington. Member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1964-1972 and 1974-1992. He is survived by his adored and adoring wife, Emily Malino Scheuer, and his loving children, Laura, Elizabeth (PeterJoseph), James (Lorna Payabyab), and John (Robin Lawson). He will be missed and remembered by his grandchildren: Damella and Laurella Dotan; Eleanor, Nicholas, Anna, and Katherine Joseph; James William and David Scheuer; and Sarah and Thomas ''Buster'' Scheuer. He is also survived by numerous siblings, cousins, nephews and nieces, all of whose lives he touched in many ways. Adoring family man, dedicated public servant, musician extraordinaire, lifelong supporter of Israel. He loved desserts, good jokes, family sing-alongs, horse-back riding, and Hopewell. His legacy inspires us, and we will miss him immensely. Funeral services will be private, and a memorial service will be held at a later date. The family will be receiving visitors from 4-8pm on Wednesday and from 123pm on Thursday at 4730 Fieldston Road, Riverdale, NY; and from 6-9pm on Thursday at 610 West End Avenue, NYC. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to: Swarthmore College, 500 College Avenue, Swarthmore, PA 19081.
        SCHEUER--James H. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of James H. Scheuer, a devoted friend whose deep commitment to public service, the Jewish community, and humanitarian causes marked a lifetime dedicated to tikkun olam. James and his family have set a shining example of philanthropic leadership through their generosity and vision. Such dedication has profoundly impacted millions of lives in New York, in Israel, and around the world. We extend our deepest sympathies to James' beloved wife, Emily; to their children: Laura; Elizabeth, and her husband, Peter Joseph; James, and his wife, Lorna Payabyab; John, and his wife, Robin Lawson; and to the entire Scheuer family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        SCHEUER -- James. The Board of Trustees of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledges with sadness the death of James Scheuer, father-inlaw of our dedicated Trustee, Peter Joseph, and father of Elizabeth Scheuer. Jim was a compassionate and dedicated public servant, great philanthropist and loving father and grandfather. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Emily, children and grandchildren and to his siblings, including his sister, Amy Scheuer Cohen, a devoted friend to JBFCS. Jim Scheuer made an enormous difference in the life of the community. Jean L. Troubh, President Joseph S. Kaplan Chairman of the Board Alan B. Siskind, PhD Executive VP and CEO Paul Levine, Assoc Exec VP
        SCHEUER--James H. A passionate and inspirational leader, a vocal defender of those requiring protection, an effective and thoughtful supporter of Israel, a strong advocate on behalf of the underprivileged, a man of many talents and great vision, and father of our Board Chair, Elizabeth Scheuer. He will be greatly missed by his family, friends, colleagues and former constituents. The Board and Staff of the JCC in Manhattan
        SCHEUER--James. The Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel mourns the passing of a true friend and generous supporter of environmental protection. Our condolences to his family.
      