
        COX--Raleigh Chaffee. In New York City on August 29th. She graduated with a BA in both Math & Economics from Wellesley College in 1957. She came to Wall Street from the National Foreign Trade Council, and joined the Bank of New York in the investment advisory department. Later, she started an investment advisory department for Franklin National Bank. She went to Blythe in 1972, and was the first woman ever hired on the sales side. During this time she was also president of the Junior League, involved in both the society and culture of New York. She married Thomas R. Cox III in 1972. They had two children, Amanda Raleigh (1976) and Samuel Riggs (1978). While raising her family in Brooklyn, she renovated multiple brownstones and tenements, planted street trees and was an active supporter of the Big Apple Circus and served on the board of Goddard Riverside. She moved to Greenwich, CT in 1986; was president of the Daffodil Society, an avid soccer mom, ran the Indian Harbor Yacht Club Junior Sailing program, and was president of the US International 420 Class Association. For the past 8 years she lived in New York City, and worked as an antiques appraiser for her beloved Tepper Galleries. She was truly a Super Mom and loved by all who knew her. She is survived by her children, Amanda and Sam. A memorial service in her honor will be held at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine on Sunday, September 18th at 2pm. Donations can be made in her name to Goddard Riverside at 212.873.4448, or the Big Apple Circus at 212.268.2500 ext.128.
        COX--Raleigh. We are deeply saddened by the loss of Raleigh Cox, a long time board member, former president and devoted member of our community. Raleigh's passion, verve and unmitigated belief in our work will never be forgotten. Our thoughts are with the family during this time of deep sadness. Stanley Heckman, President Stephan Russo Executive Director Goddard Riverside Community Center
        COX--Raleigh Chaffee. After so many years, it is difficult to say goodbye to our special friend and ''sister''. You inspired us to live well, and taught us how to die well. We will always love you. Max Drazen and Annegret von Winterfeld
        COX--Raleigh Chaffee. Tepper Galleries mourns the untimely passing of our beloved friend and colleague, Raleigh. A constant ally, confidante, teacher and surrogate mother, you will be part of us forever.
        COX--Raleigh Chaffee. You graced us with your indomitable spirit, humor, and drive for as long as we've known you. You will always be in our hearts. Kenneth and Ann Hutter
      