
        FELDMAN - Sandra. Died September 19 after a courageous battle against breast cancer. Beloved wife of Arthur Barnes, sister of Larry Abramowitz and Helen Berliner, stepmother to David and Donna Marie Barnes, and grandmother to Alex and Tatum Barnes. She was also our leader, mentor, colleague and friend at the United Federation of Teachers. She was our president from 1986 to 1997, when she became president of our parent union, the American Federation of Teachers, and served until July, 2004. Her dream was always to improve society through education, labor, social justice and political action--and that is her legacy. Sitting at the feet of Bayard Rustin when she was 17, and later, under the tutelage of Albert Shanker, she learned about justice, civil rights, organizing, protests and, most of all, how improving public education can be a major force for social change. She pioneered a legion of programs such as Dial-A-Teacher and Teacher Centers to help students and teachers alike. Since February 2004, when Sandy found out she had a relapse, she fought mightily--as mightly as she always fought to help make a difference in our lives, and in the lives of the thousands of people we represent and the hundreds of thousands of children and others we serve. Those who knew her well know how hard she worked and how much she sacrificed so others would have social justice and economic opportunity. She was a giant and will be hugely missed. Randi Weingarten, President, and the 155,000 Members of the UFT
        $(6$)FELDMAN--Sandra. We extend our deepest sympathy to our friend and colleague Arthur H. Barnes, Senior Vice President for External Affairs for HIP Health Plan, on the passing of his devoted and lovely wife, Sandy Feldman. Sandy was known nationally and internationally as past president of the American Federation of Teachers and past president of the United Federation of Teachers in New York City. Her high accomplishments won her universal accolades during a long and successful career and set an example for her successors. All of us who knew Sandy had a deep affection for her and high esteem for all that she accomplished. Anthony L. Watson Chairman & CEO, HIP Health Plan
        $(6$)FELDMAN--Sandra. The officers, staff and members of the Jewish Labor Committee note with deep sadness the passing of Sandra Feldman, a former officer of our organization and a leading and inspiring trade unionist in New York, nationally and throughout the world. Her commitment to empowering working men and women made a difference for millions of workers. We extend our deepest condolences to her family, and to the members of the American Federation of Teachers. Stuart Appelbaum, President Avram B. Lyon, Executive Director Joel Shiller, Chair, Educators Chapter
      