
        LUCE--Henry III. On September 8, 2005, age 80, on Fishers Island, NY, of cardiac arrest. He was the husband of Leila Hadley Luce, the father of Lila Frances Luce, Ph.D., and Henry Christopher Luce, stepfather of Arthur T. Hadley III, M.D., Victoria Smitter Barlow, Matthew Smitter Eliott, D.V.M., and Caroline Smitter Nicholson, Ph.D., and brother of Peter Paul Luce. Born in New York City in 1925, he was the elder son of Time Inc.'s late co-founder and editor-in-chief, Henry Robinson Luce, and the late Lila Hotz Tyng. He served in the United States Navy and graduated from the Brooks School and Yale University. With Time Inc. for thirty years, he was the publisher of Fortune and Time, vice president for corporate planning, and a member of Time Inc.'s and Time Warner's board of directors. He was a trustee of Princeton Theological Seminary, the Center of Theological Inquiry, The College of Wooster, Brooklyn Museum of Art, A Christian Ministry in the National Parks, Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, NewYork Historical Society, United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia, Yale-China Association, and a director of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations. He served as president of the New Museum of Contemporary Art, chairman of the board of China Institute in America, president of The Pilgrims of the U.S., and an elder of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church. For forty-seven years, he was a director of the Henry Luce Foundation,serving as president and then as chairman and C.E.O. until 2002. Memorial services will be held in New York City and Fishers Island on dates to be announced. $(6$)
        LUCE--Henry III. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Henry Luce, who was a devoted friend of this institution and, through the foundation that he led for decades, a generous benefactor. The creation of The Henry R. Luce Center for the Study of American Art was in large part due to his vision and leadership support-and at the time of the 1988 opening he described the new facility, which displays the Museum's complete reserve collection of more 14,000 works of American art, a ''truly significant breakthrough'' and ''the capstone'' of his foundation's support of American art. The Luce Foundation made possible several important exhibitions here as well. His contributions to this museum will always be remembered, and we extend our condolences to the entire family. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director Emily K. Rafferty, President$(6$)
        LUCE--Henry III. The Board of Trustees and staff of the New-York Historical Society mourn the loss of our colleague Henry Luce III. Hank joined the New-York Historical Society Board of Trustees in 1990, and was a committed friend to the institution throughout the years. His passion for the Society and its mission and his visionary support for its future played an important role in our current rebirth. The Society's Henry Luce III Center for the Study of American Culture stands as a tribute to his vision and devotion. All of us at the New-York Historical Society will miss him. We express our heartfelt condolences to his wife Leila; daughter Lila Frances; son Christopher; and brother Peter Paul Luce; and to his entire extended family. Nancy Newcomb, Chair, Board of Directors Louise Mirrer President and CEO$(6$)
        LUCE--Henry III. Time Warner Inc. mourns the passing of Henry Luce III, whose long and distinguished career at Time Inc. culminated in his service as publisher of Time magazine. He was a member of the board of directors of Time Inc. and later of Time Warner. Like his father before him, Hank was motivated by a deep and abiding commitment to the principles of editorial excellence and journalistic independence that make Time Inc. the world's most successful publisher. Hank helped uphold and extend the influence of our journalists and made enduring contributions to the traditions and operations of our company. He will be missed by his friends and colleagues throughout Time Warner. We extend our condolences to his entire family. Dick Parsons and the Time Warner family$(6$)
        LUCE--Henry III. The directors and staff of the Henry Luce Foundation, Inc. deeply mourn the passing of their longtime colleague who served as chairman and C.E.O from 1990 to 2002, having been president since 1958. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Leila Hadley Luce, his brother, Peter Paul Luce, his children, Lila Luce and H. Christopher Luce, and other family members. We salute his spirited leadership, unstinting loyalty, and distinctive contributions to American philanthropy. Margaret Boles Fitzgerald, Chair Michael Gilligan, President$(6$)
        LUCE -- Henry III. The Trustees and staff of the New Museum of Contemporary Art mourn the loss of Henry Luce III. Hank was one of the Museum's earliest supporters and greatest benefactors, and stewarded the institution as President of the Board of Trustees for over two decades with a stalwart belief in the importance of contemporary art. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife Leila and his entire family. Saul Dennison, President of the Board of Trustees Lisa Phillips, Henry Luce III Director$(6$)
        LUCE--Henry III. We mourn the passing of our good friend and president. His record of service in fostering fellowship between Americans, British and all English-speaking peoples, addressing current national and international issues, consistently emphasized enduring historic, cultural, economic, and social bonds. We will miss Hank's leadership, wise counsel and dedication. To his family, we extend our heartfelt condolences. The Directors, Officers, staff, & members of The Pilgrims of the United States 122 E. 58th St, NY, NY 10021$(6$)
        LUCE--Henry R. The Long Island University community mourns the death of Henry R. Luce--friend, supporter and honorary degree recipient. Edward Travaglianti, Chairman, Board of Trustees David Steinberg, President
      