
        ANDERSON--David C. Journalist, writer, Quaker. A Memorial Meeting will be held Saturday, September 24, 4 PM. Brooklyn Meeting House, Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) 110 Schermherhorn St., corner of Boerum Place, Brooklyn. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to: Mary McDowell Center for Learning, 20 Bergen St. Brooklyn, NY 11201; Coalition to Stop Gun Violence 1023 15th St., NW, Suite 600 Washington, D.C. 20005; Columbia Land Conservancy, P.O. Box 299 Chatham, NY 12037.
        $(6$)ANDERSON--David C. Died on September 15, 2005. We mourn the passing of our beloved friend David, a long time member of the New York Quarterly Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). Most recently David served as a Trustee of the New York Quarterly Meeting of the Religious Society of Friends and on ministry and council of his Brooklyn monthly meeting, as well as countless other committees over the years. David's kindness, insight, wisdom and commitment to honoring that of God and everyone will remain an inspiration to us all. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Elizabeth Gilmore and his entire family.
        $(6$)ANDERSON--David. The Trustees and staff of the Police Assessment Resource Center mourn the death of this distinguished journalist, compassionate writer, and champion of justice. David's opinions, analysis, and frank criticism inspired generations of reformers and public citizens and kept us honest. His passions and commitment live on in so many.
        $(6$)ANDERSON--David C. The Mary McDowell Center for Learning mourns the loss of our long-time trustee and friend. David, our writer and staunch supporter, was unfailingly committed to ensuring that scholarship aid was at the heart of our school for children with learning disabilities. The Center extends its deepest sympathy to Elizabeth and the family.
        $(6$)ANDERSON--David C. The faculty and staff of the program in criminal justice at the Kennedy School of Government mourn the loss of our friend, colleague, and teacher. We will miss his wit, his acuity, and his passion for truth and fairness. His faith in humanity, flaws and all, continues to inspire us to strive for the justice about which he wrote so forcefully.
        $(6$)ANDERSON -- David. The Vera Institute of Justice mourns the loss of David Anderson, and will miss the insights he brought, for over 30 years, to improving our criminal justice system for all.
      