
        MALIS--Leonard I. MD. When the definitive history of neurosurgery is written, a significant portion will be devoted to the contributions of Leonard I. Malis. Dr. Malis was born in Philadelphia in 1919. After receiving a medical degree from the University of Virginia in 1943, he served as captain in the Medical Corps and by the end of WW II was the head of his hospital's neurological unit. After leaving the army, he did his neurosurgical training at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. He completed a fellowship at Yale University and returned to Mount Sinai as an assistant attending neurosurgeon, assuming the chairmanship of the Department of Neurosurgery in 1970. Dr. Malis was a pioneer in microneurosurgery, introducing the operating microscope to neurosurgery in New York. With his brother Jerry, he developed some of the earliest state of the art surgical instruments and techniques which are still in use today. Dr. Malis retired as Chairman of the Mount Sinai Department of Neurosurgery in 1991 but continued as Professor of Neurosurgery until 1994 and as Professor Emeritus until his death. His clinical and academic legacy will enrich the practice of neurosurgery for generations to come. The Department of Neurosurgery at Mount Sinai will miss Dr. Malis as a teacher and colleague, but his presence will be noted in in operating rooms daily. We offer our condolences to his family and many friends. Kalmon D. Post, M.D. Leonard I. Malis M.D./ Corinne and Joseph Graber Professor, Chairman, Department of Neurosurgery Mount Sinai School of Medicine$(6$)
        MALIS--Leonard, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that The Mount Sinai Alumni mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague. Dr. Malis trained at Mount Sinai and made his professional life here. By combining his immense talents with unusual energy and dedication, he singlehandledly created a neurosurgical service with an international reputation which continues to this day. In 1983 The Mount Sinai Alumni presented its most coveted award, the Jacobi Medallion, to Dr. Malis in acknowledgment of his profound professional achievements and his extraordinary service to the medical center and its alumni. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Barry Stimmel, MD, Pres. Elliot Rayfield, MD, V.P. Steven Itzkowitz, MD, Sec'y Martin Goldstein, MD, Treas.
      