
        WARREN -- Rosalind Ames died peacefully in her home surrounded by family and friends after a courageous battle against cancer. She is survived by beloved husband Eugene, loving daughters Shawn Crowley and Jennifer Medwin, caring sons-in-law Steve Medwin and Bill Crowley, cherished grandchildren Ryan Beres and Jessica Medwin, Catherine and Kiera Crowley, caring best friend Mary O'Brien and devoted friend Jenny Ruff. Roz arrived in New York City from Philadelphia at the age of 16 to begin an extraordinary twenty-three year modeling career. Admired and respected in her industry for honesty, integrity and strong character. Roz was one of the reigning queens of the 50's & 60's on Seventh Avenue. She worked for all of the top designers in her day: Charles James, Halston, Anne Klein, Ben Zuckerman, Geoffrey Beene, Kasper, and Molly Parnis. Charles James insisted that all Saks mannequins be patterned after her figure. Roz was selected by Eleanor Lambert to be the opening and closing model for the prestigious Coty Awards. She was Mr. Goodman's first choice of models at Bergdorf Goodman fashion shows. Roz showed privately for Jacqueline Kennedy and The Duchess of Windsor and was a personal favorite of Lady Bird Johnson. Roz left a lasting impression on those who met her. She had the unique ability to combine style, dignity, and generosity with humanity. Fiercely independent and determined, she was a woman before her time. Many will remember her for the intensity with which she applied herself in various Upper Westside gyms over the years, exercising, spinning, and ultimately daily yoga. She succeeded on her own terms, never compromising her integrity and commanding the respect of those with whom she worked. A discerning judge of character, Roz was a friend for life for those lucky and deserving people who she chose to embrace. At the same time, Roz always had a special place for those less fortunate than her, and her love of animals was profound--not only the lucky animals who shared her home over the years, but also the many dogs she knew by name in the park. Even in the midst of her struggle with cancer, she would gather the strength to walk to Central Park to feed the birds. Roz will be deeply missed by all her family and friends. She will remain in our hearts forever. Funeral services will be held at The Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue (at 81st Street) at 11:30 AM on Sunday, September 18th. Donations in her mamory may be made to the ASPCA, Hospice of New York, or Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer (Thoracic Oncology Department).
        $(6$)WARREN--Rosalind. It is with deep regret that we realize we have lost our lifelong friend, Roz. Words can not express our sorrow, and our love and sympathy are with Gene, Shawn, Bill, Jennifer, Steve and the entire family. Our hearts and prayers are with them. The Buchbinder Family, Uncle Booky, Mae, Lori, Ray, Susan and Bill
        $(6$)WARREN--Rosalind. Dearest Mr. Warren and family, our deepest sympathy goes out to you all. What a beautiful woman the world has lost, what a beautiful soul Heaven will receive. The memory of Roz, her wit, her strength and her courage, will forever live on in our hearts. We love you, Debby, Eileen and family
        $(6$)WARREN--Rosalind. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her husband Gene and family. May her memory be for blessing. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, Pres.
        $(6$)WARREN -- Rosalind. We mourn the passing of our dearest friend Roz and share heartfelt sympathies with her husband Gene, daughters Shaun and Jenny, sons-in-law Bill and Steve and all of the grandchildren. Gorgeous, we will miss you very much. Love, Avis and Alan
        $(6$)WARREN--Rosalind. It is with profound sorrow and deep regret that the entire staff of Buchbinder & Warren mourn the tragic passing of Roz, wife of our beloved founding partner, Eugene Warren. To EW and the entire Warren family we extend our heartfelt love and sympathy.
        $(6$)WARREN--Rosalind. To my dear friend and lifelong business partner, Gene, I mourn with you for the loss of your cherished wife. It is with great sorrow that I grieve the passing of Roz, whom I so loved and admired. Love, Norman
        $(6$)WARREN--Roz. Aunt Roz, from the time we were little girls we have loved you, your elegance, beauty, passion for life, humor, strength and generosity. We will miss you forever. Love, Lori and Susan
        $(6$)WARREN -- Rosalind. With profound sorrow we mourn the passing of a truly elegant and courageous lady. Our love and sympathy to Gene, Shawn, Jennifer, Bill, Steve, Ryan and Jessica. Carmine, Ornella and Gloria
      