
        RUBINSTEIN--Frank, 83, died on the morning of September 29, 2005 at the North Shore Hospital. He died peacefully surrounded by his beloved family. He was a loving husband to Alice for 59 years and a devoted father to Richard, Donald and Ethel, as well as a wonderful father-in-law to Katherine, Tanya and Eli. He adored his granddaughters Manya and Ava. Frank was a generous man, he was greatly loved and respected by family, friends and colleagues. Funeral services Friday, September 30th, 1PM at the ''Riverside - Nassau North Chapels,'' 55 North Station Plaza (opposite the LIRR), Great Neck, NY.
        RUBINSTEIN--Frank. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of Frank Rubinstein, an esteemed member of our club. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Alice, his children Richard, Donald and Ethel and to the entire family. Pres. Mark Claster Secy. Roger Blumencranz
        RUBINSTEIN--Frank. We are saddened by the loss of Frank Rubinstein, beloved husband of Alice Rubinstein and father of Richard, Ethel and Donald. Our heartfelt condolences go out to his family. He was an incredible man who will continue to live within the hearts and minds of all who knew him, and his legacy continues in his loving children. John Palestrini/Bluerock
        RUBINSTEIN -- Frank. We both mourn the loss of our dear friend Frank. When he would call me with the code name Heshel instead of Harry it was a sign of our deep mutual friendship that we had. May he rest in peace. Pat and Harry Markowitz
        RUBINSTEIN--Frank. He was a man who truly lived and loved and he will be greatly missed. My condolences go out to his daughter Ethel, her husband Eli, Ava, Frank's entire family and to all who loved him. Denise Wanat
        RUBINSTEIN -- Frank. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President
        RUBINSTEIN -- Frank. My darling father, rest in peace. I love you, Ethel
      