
        NASH--Nancy Thouron. Died at her home in Morristown, New Jersey on Sunday, September 11, 2005. She was 70. The cause was brain cancer. She was born in Lynchburg, Virginia, grew up in Wilmington, Delaware, resided for several years in New York City and in Brussels, Belgium and lived in Morristown since 1969. Nancy was a graduate of the Tower Hill School, Wilmington, Delaware and St. Timothy's School, Stevenson, Maryland. She received a BA degree from Vassar College in 1956 and a Master of Letters degree from Drew University in 1996. Nancy worked for the American Field Service (now AFS-USA, Inc.) for several years following her graduation from college. Thereafter she devoted herself to family and friends and her interest in art, literature and music. A member and past President of the Shakespeare Club of Morristown, Nancy was a former Trustee and longtime volunteer archivist of the McCullough Hall Museum in Morristown, a long-time volunteer for the Morristown Meals on Wheels program and a member of the Colony Club, New York, NY, the Sakonnet Golf Club, Little Compton, Rhode Island, and the Warren's Point Beach Club, also of Little Compton. She is survived by her husband, Paul LeNoir Nash, her son Andrew Gray Nash and his wife Ann Gullans Nash of Wilton, Connecticut, her daughters Laurie LeNoir Nash and Daphne Thouron Nash, both of New York City and her grandchildren, Jackson Clark Nash, Elizabeth LeNoir Nash and Meredith Gray Nash. She is also survived by her sister, Margaret Thouron Harrell of Wilmington, Delaware. Her brother, George Gray Thouron, Jr., predeceased her. A memorial service will be held at St. Peter's Episcopal Church, Morristown, on Friday, September 16 at 1:30 PM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to AFS-USA Inc., 198 Madison Avenue, 8th floor, New York, NY 10016 or to the American Brain Tumor Association, 2720 River Road, Des Plaines, IL. 60018, www. abta.org. For information: William A. Bradley & Son Funeral Home, Chatham, NJ.
      