
        SLADE--John, 97. Husband of Marianne and the late Margit. Father of Barbara, her husband Hans Bolsterli and Nicole, her husband Gerard Weinberg. Loving grandfather of Marina, Tamara and Jonathan. Interment private. A memorial service will be held on Friday, September 30th at 10:30 AM at Temple EmanuEl, Fifth Avenue at 65th St. In lieu of flowers, gifts may be made to the UJA Federation Annual Campaign or the UJA Federation Katrina Relief Fund, 130 East 59th Street, Suite 158, NY NY 10022.
        $(6$)SLADE--John. Bar-Ilan University and its American Board of Trustees mourn the passing of our esteemed honorary alumnus, John Slade, z''l, of New York. A member of our Presidential Founders Society and a recipient of an honorary doctorate degree in 1994, Mr. Slade established the Slade Doctoral Fellowship Program at Bar-Ilan's S. Daniel Abraham Center for Economics and Business, mentoring and grooming a new generation of outstanding Israeli economists and business leaders. John Slade fled Germany to escape the increasing threat of Nazism and established himself in America as a prominent and widely admired leader in the investment world. Together, with his beloved wife, Marianne, he was a benefactor of a wide range of Jewish causes. A steadfast supporter of women's rights, Mr. Slade was a founder of the Emanuel and Ruth Rackman Center for the Advancement of the Status of Women at BarIlan University. We extend our condolences to Marianne and the entire Slade family. May they draw solace from inspiring memories and be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Emanuel Rackman Chancellor Professor Moshe Kaveh President Yehuda Halevy Executive Vice President
        $(6$)SLADE--John H. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of John H. Slade, a treasured friend and business leader whose extraordinary compassion and deep devotion to the Jewish community has left a legacy of hope for countless individuals touched by his generosity. Mr. Slade's exceptional dedication to philanthropic concerns, including his devoted service to our Wall Street division, earned him the admiration and respect of all who were fortunate to know him. He profoundly impacted millions of lives in New York, Israel, and around the globe through his vision and support. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved wife, Marianne; to their children: Barbara, and her husband, Hans Bolsterli; Nicole, and her husband, Gerard Weinberg; to his grandchildren; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)SLADE--John. The American Jewish Committee mourns the death of John Slade, a generous benefactor and an individual of impeccable integrity and towering humanity. John left Nazi Germany and devoted his personal, professional and philanthropic life to the well-being of his beloved adopted country of America, to the Jewish people and to help build human bridges of mutual respect and understanding. John was a member of our National Leadership Council and our Wall Street honoree in 1988. A wonderful, decent man with a heart of pure gold, we remain grateful for his generous support of our work, which will ensure human rights and dignity for all for generations to come. He will be sorely missed. We send heartfelt condolences to his family and many friends. E. Robert Goodkind, Pres. David A. Harris, Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)SLADE--John. Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion records with profound sorrow the death of John Slade, loyal son of the Jewish people. John was an inspiring example of a man whose life had been fashioned by a vision to serve. He was a generous philanthropist whose love for our people was reflected in his abiding commitment to Jewish values and communal service. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his dear wife, Marianne, and to his daughters and their families. May the family find comfort together with all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, President Rabbi Alfred Gottschalk, Chancellor Emeritus Mr. Burton Lehman, Chair of the Board
        $(6$)SLADE--John H. Thanks to Scandinavia records with profound sorrow the death of a special human being. He was sensitive to the moral imperatives of Thanks to Scandinavia in reminding current and future generations of the heroism and bravery of the people, the governments and the churches of Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden in rescuing persons of the Jewish faith from the Holocaust and in expressing America's gratitude to the Scandinavians by awarding scholarships to them at American universities and medical centers. John H. Slade will be missed, and he will never be forgotten. Richard Netter, President Rebecca Neuwirth, Director
        $(6$)SLADE--John. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and generous benefactor, John Slade, whose support greatly helped many of the programs and services at the hospital. To his beloved wife, Marianne, his daughters Barbara Bolsterli and Nicole Weinberg, his grandchildren and all of his loved ones, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman, Board of Trustees David J. Shulkin, MD President and CEO
        $(6$)SLADE--John. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish Heritage -A Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of John Slade, decorated WWII veteran and devoted friend of the Museum. His encouragement and faith will always inspire us. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Marianne and his entire family. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chair David G. Marwell, Director
        $(6$)SLADE--John. In sorrow, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our distinguished and longtime member John Slade. With his family, we share the grief of loss and bereavement. The beautiful qualities of his life shall endure forever in the hearts of those who loved him. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. George Asch, Sec'y
      