
        EISENBERG--Everett Arnold Everett Eisenberg was born to Dr. David and Birdie Eisenberg on October 30, 1916 in Astoria, NY, and died on September 4, 2005 in Delray Beach, FL. He graduated from City College in 1937 at a time when it was considered the ''common man's Harvard.'' Awarded a scholarship, he went on to attend Harvard Law and graduated in 1940. His reverence for Harvard was deep, reinforcing his conviction that mankind is capable of profound good. Less than a year after graduation, and ten days before the attack on Pearl Harbor, he began his airforce training. For his service in the Pacific arena, he received the Bronze Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross and a citation from General MacArthur. Following the war, his love of flying led him to serve as traffic manager for Empire Airlines. Ultimately, he returned to the practice of law, becoming legal counsel to the Foreign Press Association. Always driven by his concern for humanitarian causes throughout the world, his exemplary international career as a corporate lawyer was often combined with his pursuit of equality and justice on a global scale. Most notably, he successfully argued one of the first of many cases arising from the Iran hostage situation before the World Court at the Hague. Everett's lifetime of varied experience reflects a curious and extremely facile mind. His passions were expressed on land by a competitive game of tennis; on sea as a skilled sailor; and in air as a private pilot. His incisive intellect and wit were a testament to a many-faceted personality. A fabulous raconteur, he held any audience spellbound. In simple words, he was a man larger than life. As such, he took the phrase ''go forth and multiply'' seriously. He is predeceased by his brother, Dr. Sanford H. Eisenberg, and his brother-in-law, Dr. Harold Diner. Four years ago, he lost the true love of his life, Viviane Eisenberg, the former Viviane Tubiana, past prima donna of Le Theatre National de L'Opera Comique. Additionally, two other mates have played important roles: the mother of his daughters, Hermione Sakolsky, and his current soul-mate, Kay Peck. Everett is lovingly remembered by his children, Amy Thor and Deborah HowlandMurray, son-in-law David Murray and his younger sister, Sydelle Diner. He was thrilled by his role as grandpa to seven grandchildren and 73/4 great grandchildren. A global cadre of nieces, nephews and cousins will miss him dearly. In his memory, and with regard to his respect for individual free will, contributions may be made to any cause that promotes the ideals by which he lived. Had he survived, he would surely have lent his help to the victims of Hurricane Katrina, and to do so would also be a fitting memorial. A memorial service will be held at 3PM on October 2, 2005 at the Astoria Center of Israel, 27-35 Crescent St, Long Island City, NY.
      