
        HOAG--John Warner, B. Arch. (Univ. of Toronto 1955); Fellow, Royal Architectural Institute of Canada (1984); Order of da Vinci (1987) and Honorary Membership (2004) both granted by the Ontario Association of Architects. Born February 21, 1930 in Brantford, Ontario, predeceased by his parents John Arliss Hoag and Kathleen Warner Hoag, and infant brother Peter. Died on September 11, 2005 at South Muskoka Memorial Hospital in Bracebridge, Ontario. Husband of Sarah Mansfield Dunn from New Rochelle, New York, father, friend and greatest supporter of their children Hannah Margaret Hoag (Omer Rashid) and Matthew Warner Hoag. Survived by his brother, William Arliss Hoag (Patricia James Hoag) of Oakville, Ontario and their children and grandchildren, his cherished cousin Doris Chatham of Mill Valley California, and brother-inlaw, Tom Dunn of Boston, Massachusetts. He was an outstanding father, husband, son, brother, and uncle. John was a good friend to many, a mentor, a raconteur, and a bon vivant with a love for anything relating to France. John worked in architectural firms in London, and Boston before joining, for a decade, Skidmore, Owings and Merrill of New York. While living in New York, John had enjoyed being a member of the Mendelessohn Men's Chorus. In 1966 John returned to Canada and worked for Marani, Rounthwaite & Dick in Toronto prior to joining the University of Waterloo (Ontario). He was at Waterloo for 25 years, until retirement as the Architectural Program Administrator for Co-operative Education. He maintained a small private practice in Ontario which completed a major commission in Boone, North Carolina; a project in Galt, Ontario received an Award of Merit from Heritage Cambridge. John was very active in the architectural profession and in his church. He held many leadership positions and was known for his sense of fairness and professionalism. John was Chairman of the Committee on Church Architecture for the Presbyterian Church in Canada when it won a Premier's Award for Accessibility (1986) for a handbook of standards and accessibility guidelines for church architecture. A funeral was held at Rosedale Presbyterian Church, 129 South Drive Toronto (M4W 2S3) on Saturday, September 17, at 11:00 A.M. For information Humphrey Funeral Home, A.W. Miles Chapel, in Toronto, please call #
      