
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. Survived by his loving partner Marcia Soltes, his sons Adam and Rabbi Barnett, his sister Joy Rabinowitz and his four grandchildren, Alexander, Eve, Eli and Hasina. Services Thursday, 11AM, Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 W. 68 St, N.Y. Contributions may be made in his memory to the National Offices of Planned Parenthood and/or the Rabbi Balfour Brickner Early Childhood Center at the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, in Manhattan.
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Emeritus Balfour. In loving memory of Rabbi Emeritus Balfour Brickner. The Stephen Wise Free Synagogue deeply mourns the passing of our beloved leader, friend and rabbi emeritus, Balfour Brickner. Rabbi Brickner was larger than life. He was a passionate fighter for justice and human rights. He was active in all of the great social struggles of the last half century. He marshaled all of his prodigious talents towards the advancement of women's rights and minority rights, the abolition of apartheid and the elimination of hunger and poverty. He believed in coexistence and was active in interfaith relations. He loved the Jewish people and the Jewish state, and worked towards peace and understanding between Jews and Arabs, Israelis and Palestinians. We, who have had the great good fortune to have been blessed with so many beautiful days in his shining presence, thank God for the manifold gifts bestowed upon us. Rabbi Brickner was one of a kind. We shall not gaze upon the likes of him again. Jewish tradition asserts, ''One who is loved by his fellow human beings is loved by God.'' God has welcomed home a faithful servant. May Rabbi Brickner rest in everlasting peace. Zecher Tsaddik LivrachaMay the memory of the righteous one be blessed. Charitable contributions can be made to the Rabbi Balfour Brickner Early Childhood Center at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue and Planned Parenthood Federation of America. Rabbi Ammiel Hirsch, Senior Rabbi Cantor Mark Opatow Ian Benjamin, President
        BRICKNER -- Balfour. The Union for Reform Judaism mourns with deep sorrow the passing of Rabbi Balfour Brickner. During nearly two decades as a member of the Union staff, Rabbi Brickner created the Commission on Interreligious Affairs and served as its first director. He also served as the associate director of the Commission on Social Action and as the director of the New York Federation of Reform Synagogues. A bold and outspoken social justice visionary, Rabbi Brickner was a leader in every great struggle of his era, as well as a dedicated catalyst for change and an inspiration to all those who seek to repair our broken world. May his memory be for a blessing. Robert M. Heller, Chairman Rabbi Eric H. Yoffie, President
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour The Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health and its Board of Advisors mourn the passing of our Board member and esteemed colleague, Rabbi Balfour Brickner. His vision and commitment to education, public health, and advocacy for reproductive health and rights were an inspiration to all, and we will miss his steadfast support. Allan Rosenfield, MD, Dean James Harden, Board Chair Susan Patricof, Vice-Chair
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. The Engelberg Foundation mourns the passing of its Executive Director, Rabbi Balfour Brickner. Balfour's extraordinary compassion for those in need; his strong sense of social justice; and his zest for life have been powerful influences on the Foundation's work since it was founded with his help almost thirteen years. He was our mentor and our dearest friend and will be greatly missed. Alfred and Gail Engelberg
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. We mourn the death of a giant of Reform Judaism whom we were privileged to call special friend and esteemed teacher. Our deepest sympathy to Adam and Rabbi Barney, and to those to whom he was so dear. He was a beacon for all in his beloved Stephen Wise Free Synagogue congregation. We join in celebrating a life well lived. ''Shalom Chaver''. The Grabino Family
        BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. We, of the Jewish Museum of Greece and its American friends mourn the loss of Rabbi Balfour Brickner, one of their founding members as well as staunchest supporters. We extend our deepest sympathy to all his family. Sam Benrubi, Solomon Asser
        BRICKNER--Balfour. ''What though the radiance which once was so bright be now forever taken from my sight...We will grieve not, rather find strength in what remains behind.'' Love, Doris Brickner and Family
        BRICKNER -- Balfour. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Balfour Brickner, and send condolences to his family.
        BRICKNER--Balfour. We are so saddened by the loss of Balfour. Our hearts go out to our dear friend, Marcia. Lovingly, Ethel, Eli, and Ava
      