
        MOTLEY -- The Honorable Constance Baker. September 28, 2005 in New York City. Deeply mourned by her loving husband, Joel Motley, Jr.; her son Joel Motley III; Isolde Motley; her grandchildren Hannah, Ian, and Senay; her sisters Edna Carnegie, Eunice Royster, and Marion Green; her brother Edward Baker; and her many cousins, nephews, nieces and friends. Funeral services will be private. Memorial service at The Riverside Church, New York City, at 11 o'clock on November 4. Gifts in Judge Motley's honor may be made to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc.
        MOTLEY--Constance Baker. The Board of Directors and Staff of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc. mourn the loss of Judge Constance Baker Motley. Her life was an exemplar for everyone concerned about the cause of equality. We are especially grateful to have known her during her two decades of service as an LDF attorney. We have lost a dear friend and the nation has lost a true champion of racial justice. We express our sincere condolences to her family. Julius L. Chambers and Martin D. Payson, Co-Chairs Theodore M. Shaw, President and Director-Counsel
        MOTLEY -- The Honorable Constance Baker. The Board and staff of the Community Service Society of New York mourn the loss of a friend and mentor. Her genuine concern for all those in need, her commitment to civil rights, and her steadfast goal for dignity for all people will remain an inspiration to all of us. Our deepest sympathy goes to her family. David R. Jones, Esq. President and CEO
        MOTLEY--Hon. Constance Baker, an illustrious and distinguished lady has left us with myriad memories of love, laughter, brilliance and countless moments of joy. May God attend you, my darling friend, and comfort your beloved husband Joel, your dearest son Joel and his loving wife Isolde and cherished grandchildren Hannah, Ian and Senay. Marjorie D. Kogan
        MOTLEY--Judge Constance Baker. The Board and staff of the Center for Constitutional Rights wishes to express its deepest sympathy and sadness at the passing of Judge Constance Baker Motley, an extraordinary jurist and key figure in the struggle for the civil rights of African Americans in our Nation.
        MOTLEY--Constance Baker. The judges of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York are deeply saddened by the death of our colleague, and extend our sympathy to her family. Michael B. Mukasey Chief Judge
      