
        FELDMAN - Sandra. The Board of Directors, staff and entire network of the National Academy Foundation (NAF) deeply mourn the loss of Sandra Feldman, our fellow board member, friend and champion for many years. Sandy played an important role in the creation of the first Academy of Finance in 1981 and continued to advocate for the Academy's small - learning - community model as a means of improving public education. She joined our Board in 1997 and helped NAF grow across the country. She cared profoundly about the development of young people and believed in the Academy model as a tool to help all students achieve their greatest potential. She was an impassioned advocate for the empowerment of teachers and helped promote the practice of teams of teachers working across disciplines as a means of improving outcomes for children. She never wavered in her belief in the accountability and responsibility of teachers for their own professional growth. Her passing is a huge loss to the cause of public education and we will miss her tremendously. Sanford I. Weill, Chairman, Board of Directors, National Academy Foundation John J. Ferrandino, President, National Academy Foundation
        $(6$)FELDMAN -- Sandra. The Board of Directors, Overseers and staff of the International Rescue Committee are saddened by the death of Sandra Feldman, a valued member of our board since 1989. The leadership qualities that made her an outstanding president of the United Federation of Teachers in New York and subsequently of the American Federation of Teachers also characterized her service on our board. She believed deeply in freedom, democracy and human rights, and strongly supported efforts to educate refugee children. We will miss her deeply, and we extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Arthur Barnes, and her family. Tom Brokaw and Winston Lord Co-Chairmen, IRC Overseers Alan Batkin and Jonathan Wiesner Co-Chairmen of the Board George Rupp, President
        $(6$)FELDMAN -- Sandra. We mourn the loss of a champion for social justice and equal opportunity. As Bayard Rustin's student and later his colleague, Sandy fought for the rights of workers and the oppressed both at home and abroad. Her strength and outspokenness were com plimented by a dazzling smile and infectious laughter. Like Rustin, her appreciation of life's beauties was not diminished by its tragedies. Our sympathy to her devoted husband, Arthur Barnes, and her extended family and friends. The Bayard Rustin Fund
        $(6$)FELDMAN -- Sandra. The Board of Directors of the National Committee for Labor Israel notes with sadness the passing of our fellow board member. Sandy was a fierce advocate of peace, social justice and equal rights for workers throughout the world. She will be missed. We extend our sympathies to her family. Jay Mazur, President Jerry Goodman, Exec. Dir. Ann Stamler, Assoc. Executive Director
        $(6$)FELDMAN--Sandra. We salute Sandra Feldman, friend, comrade, and a true drum major for justice, who took her commitment to civil rights for all from the battle for racial equality to insuring the future of our nation by fighting for the education of our children. Her majesty and grace will forever march on. Drum Major Institute For Public Policy Ambassador Andrew Young William B. Wachtel
        $(6$)FELDMAN--Sandra. The Association for a Better New York joins the entire city in mourning the loss of Sandra Feldman. She was a true civic leader who led and inspired us all. She will be greatly missed. William C. Rudin, Chairman
        $(6$)FELDMAN--Sandra. Dear Arthur, We are all deeply saddened over the loss of your beloved Sandy. PAL's Board and Staff
      