
        EASTMAN -- Laura Delano Adams. 79, on September 23, 2005. Born on Campobello Island, New Brunswick, she was the daughter of Frederick Baldwin Adams and Ellen Walters Delano and grew up in the family home at 8 East 69th Street in Manhattan. She married Jack Eastman, Director of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture, from whom she was amicably divorced and who predeceased her. Her late brother, Frederick B. Adams, Jr., was the former Director of the Morgan Library and a consummate bibliophile. She is survived by her dear companion Mary (''Bunny'') Diehl, her nieces, Gillian Adams, Anne Adams Chambers, Judith Adams and Lauren Fortmiller, and, of course, her horse ''Walker''. Laura graduated from the Chapin School and Barnard College, and initially followed in her brother's footsteps becoming a knowledgeable and accomplished curator of private libraries and collections. She was a superb horsewoman specializing in showing fivegaited saddle horses, and was a supporter of many US Olympic Equestrian teams. While visiting her mother's cousins, Franklin and Eleanor, in the White House on December 7, 1941, she spent the afternoon teaching the President's dog, Fala, to roll over. She went on to raise and train dogs to assist deaf persons, helping to found the agency which coordinates such efforts, Assistance Dogs International. Her life-long devotion to the Metropolitan Opera led naturally to her involvement in the theater, and for many years she organized and directed the summer theater program at the Community House in Fire Island Pines, and was a supporter of the John Drew Playhouse in East Hampton. She took delight in telling how her friend Jerry Herman wrote ''Hello Dolly'' on the back deck of her bay cottage in the Pines, where she also served for many years on the board of FIPPOA. With her husband Jack and friend Henry Grady, she developed ''Sandy Ground'' in Jost Van Dyke, B.V.I., where she could pursue her interest in snorkeling. After surviving a serious encounter with cancer of the oropharynx, Laura dedicated herself as a patient-to-patient peer counselor for in-coming cancer patients at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, volunteering as many as five or six days a week for nearly twenty years. On Sundays, she could be found ushering at St. James's Church, Manhattan, or in attendance at St. Luke's in East Hampton or St. Ann's in Bridgehampton. She attended the Institute of Theology at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, was a Governor of The Laymen's Club of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, and was the former librarian of The Church Club of New York. She was a supporter of the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore, founded by her granduncle, Henry Walters. Her greatest charitable effort was with St. John Eye Hospital in East Jerusalem, for which, under a commission from Queen Elizabeth II, she was made a Dame of the Venerable Order of the Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem last September at Grace Cathedral in San Francisco. Everyone who loved Laura is invited to a memorial service on October 20 at 11 A.M. at St. James's Church, Madison Avenue at 71st Street. Instead of flowers, gifts in Laura's memory may be made to Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center. A committal service at a date to be announced will follow at St. Luke's in East Hampton. In the Spring, a portion of Laura's ashes will be scattered at the Adams cabins on Campobello Island and into the Bay of Fundy.
      