
        READER--Dr. George G., 86 Died October 13, 2005. Survived by wife Helen B. Reader, four sons, Jonathan W., David P., Mark M., and Peter M.F., and five grandchildren. Born in Brooklyn. Served in Medical Corps, US Navy, PTO, WWII. Professor of Medicine and Chair of the Department of Public Health, Cornell University Medical School. Pioneer in medical education. Author of over 50 articles and three books on patient care, public health and medical sociology. A memorial service will be held 2pm on Saturday October 22, 2005 at Rye Presbyterian Church, Rye, NY. $(6$)READER--George Gordon, MD. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. George Gordon Reader, the Livingston Farrand Professor Emeritus of Public Health and Professor Emeritus of Medicine. Chairman of the Department of Public Health and Public Health Physicianin-Chief from 1972 to 1992, Dr. Reader advanced our understanding of the socioeconomic influences on illness and the delivery of medical care. An early champion of comprehensive care, he helped shape public health policy on a national level. Beginning with undergraduate and medical degrees, he spent his entire career with Cornell. In 1992, he was chosen to receive the Maurice R. Greenberg Distinguished Service Award, the highest honor given by the medical center. A superb and compassionate clinician, skilled teacher, and dedicated researcher, he was beloved by all. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Helen, and the entire Reader family. Dr. Antonio M. Gotto, Jr. Dean Weill Cornell Medical College Dr. Herbert Pardes President & CEO NY-Presbyterian Hospital Dr. Alvin I. Mushlin Chairman of Public Health Weill Cornell Medical College Public Health Physician-inChief NY-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell $(6$)READER--George G., M.D. The Board of Directors and the clinical and administrative staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York mourn the loss of our beloved and dedicated Director, George G. Reader, M.D. A member of our Board since 1952, he was a past Chairman of our Physician Advisory Committee and a current Director of the agency's Center for Home Care Policy and Research. His farsighted vision and commitment to public and community health had a profound influence on VNSNY. His warm humor, wise counsel and expert medical judgment will be greatly missed. We extend our deep condolences to his family. Douglas D. Broadwater Chairman of the Board Carol Raphael President and CEO
      