
        MARA--Wellington. On October 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Ann Mara. Loving father of John Mara, Susan McDonnell, Chris Mara, Stephen Mara, Frank Mara, Sheila Durkin, Kathy Morehouse, Maureen Brown, Ann Marie Cacase, Meghan Brennan, and Colleen McLane. Cherished grandfather of forty grandchildren. Family will receive friends Wednesday, 6-9pm, Thursday 3-5 and 7-9pm; public visitation 5-7pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Mass of Christian Burial Friday, 10am, at the Cathedral of St. Patrick's, 50th St. and 5th Ave. In lieu of flowers, family requests that donations be made to the Boys Hope, Girls Hope, or Life Athletes, or the John V. Mara Cancer Center at St. Vincent's Hospital, or Memorial Sloan-Kettering.
        $(6$)MARA--Wellington T. The Board of Trustees, students, staff, alumnae and Religious of The Sacred Heart of Convent of The Sacred Heart, Greenwich, mourn the passing of Wellington T. Mara, beloved husband of Ann, and father of seven Sacred Heart alumnae, and grandfather of four graduates and current students. A generous benefactor, firmly committed to the goals of a Sacred Heart education, he helped strengthen the School's efforts to provide academic and athletic opportunities for girls. A man of great integrity and deep religious faith, he and his family were honored by the School in 1991 at its first Board of Trustees' Dinner. We extend our deepest sympathies and send our prayers to the entire Mara family. John N. Irwin III, Chair, Board of Trustees Joan Magnetti, RSCJ, Headmistress Convent of The Sacred Heart
        $(6$)MARA -- Wellington. The Board of Directors, staff, volunteers, families and children of the Ronald McDonald House of New York deeply regret the passing of a generous and longtime supporter of the House. The efforts of Wellington Mara and the New York Football Giants over the past 9 years have helped many of our families through difficult times. We send our prayers and condolences to Ann Mara, her children and the entire New York Football Giants Organization. Michael Hegarty Chairman of the Board Ronald McDonald House of New York William T. Sullivan President and CEO Ronald McDonald House of New York
        $(6$)MARA--Wellington T. The Board and staff of Boys Hope Girls Hope mourn the passing of our longtime friend and colleague, Wellington T. Mara. Mr. Mara has been an ardent supporter of Boys Hope Girls Hope and has served on its Board of Directors for over 20 years. Boys Hope Girls Hope would like to formally acknowledge Mr. Mara's many years of service and contributions to the organization as well as the youth that we serve. We express our heartfelt condolences to the entire Mara family. Richard E. Meyer, Chairman Boys Hope Girls Hope National
        $(6$)MARA--Wellington T. Fordham University and the Board of Trustees mourn the loss of our alumnus and colleague, Wellington Mara. A graduate of Fordham College, he was a valued member of the Fordham University Board of Trustees from 1978 to 1984. Fordham was proud to honor Mr. Mara as an inaugural recipient of its Founder's Award in 2002. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Ann, and their family. John N. Tognino, Chair of the Board Joseph M. McShane, S.J. President
        $(6$)MARA--Wellington. The Iona Prep Community deeply mourns the death of our dear friend Wellington T. Mara. His life was formed by his unwavering devotion to God and lived in devotion to his family, his team and the needs of the poor. Our thoughts, prays and heartfelt condolences are with his wife, Ann, his 11 children, 40 grandchildren and the entire Mara family. The Christian Brothers, Board, Faculty, Staff and Students of Iona Prep School, Timothy J. Joyce, Chairman and Richard P. Hazelton, Head of School.
        $(6$)MARA--Wellington. It is with great sadness that the InnerCity Scholarship Fund family notes the passing of a long time friend. We are so grateful for his commitment to the girls and boys attending the inner city schools of the Archdiocese of New York. His generous spirit will never be forgotten. Our hearts go out to wife Ann, his children and grandchildren in this time of loss.
        $(6$)MARA--Wellington T. This admirable man will truly be missed. It has been an honor and a pleasure to know him for the last 20 years. Sincerest condolences to his family. Sandy Schlesinger
      