
        MANTON--Sir Edwin. The Board of Overseers, faculty, staff, students, and alumni of the School of Risk Management at St. John's University mourn the passing of Sir Edwin (Jim) Manton, a gentleman, a great insurance leader, and a generous benefactor. For more than 70 years, our institution has had the great privilege of knowing and working with Sir Jim, beginning when he was a student in l931 and just entering the insurance business. In the ensuing years, he served the school in many capacities, including more than 20 years of distinctive service as a member of the Board of Trustees of The College of Insurance, and following the college's merger with St. John's University in 2001, as a member of the Board of Overseers of the newly named School of Risk Management. His affection for our school, and his gentle humor and generous spirit have been a source of inspiration to all of us, and he will be greatly missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family, colleagues and friends. Dr. Ellen Thrower, Executive Director Brandon W. Sweitzer, Chairman of the Board of Overseers, School of Risk Management of St. John's University
        MANTON--Sir Edwin. The Trustees of the American Fund for the Tate Gallery mourn the passing of Founding Benefactor Sir Edwin Manton who, with his late wife Gretchen, became one of the most significant benefactors in Tate's history. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his daughter, Diana, his granddaughter--and our fellow Trustee--Sandra Niles, as well as all members of his family. Henry Christensen III Lady Lynn Forester de Rothschild Sir Nicholas Serota Allen Staley
        MANTON--Edwin A.G. The Salmagundi Club, one of the oldest artist organizations in America mourns the loss of its longtime member and friend Sir Edwin A.G. Manton. Together with his wife the late Florence Vivian Brewer he was a constant presence and supporter of the Club for over 50 years. The entire Club extends its heartfelt condolences to the family.
      