
        SCHULMAN--Jack, 90. Founder and Director, American Branch of Cambridge University Press. Jack Schulman, died peacefully at his home in Cathedral City, CA. on October 25, 2005. Mr. Schulman, born in Germany, came to America when he was 10 years old. After receiving his B.B.A. from St. John's University, his M.B.A. from New York University and his M.A. from Cambridge University, Mr. Schulman began his publishing career at Macmillan where he met his wife to be, Ruth Leavitt, of Alton, ME. They were wed in 1943 while he was serving in the United States Air Corps. Ruth died in 1988. In 1949, Jack helped found the American branch of Cambridge University Press and became a Director in 1970. After retiring in 1976, Mr. Schulman served on the Management Boards of the University Presses of Cambridge, Yale, M.I.T., Oklahoma and the Beacon Press, the publishing arm of the Unitarian Church. He was a member of the Honor Society of Delta Mu Delta and a nonresident Fellow of Cambridge University, Christ College, U.C. Berkeley and Yale University. Jack was highly respected by his peers, his friends, and deeply loved by his entire family, providing wisdom and inspiration to all. He is survived by his loving sisters, Paula Lucks of Sherman Oaks, CA. and Hilda Milstein of Manalapan, NJ, his devoted sister-in-law, Catherine Leavitt of Eddington, ME and his brother-in-law and sister-in-law, Donald and Ruth Leavitt of Old Town, ME. Uncle Jack will be missed by his adoring nieces and nephews across the United States, Morton Trachtenbroit, Linda Lucks, Charles Milstein, Irv Lucks, Ed Lucks, Dianne Tencer, Sandi Cooper, Karla Toledano, Margaret Evelyn Davis, Mark Leavitt, Karen Curtis, Dorothy Jane Sawyer, Leigh Caron, Nancy Harris, and their families. Jack is also survived by his loving caretaker, Joyce Molina and his close companion of many years, Marilyn Milman. He was preceded in death by his parents Leopold and Charlotte Schulman, his siblings Leo Schulman, Adele Trachtenbroit, Sylvia Sloves and Hannah Schulman. Donations may be made in Jack's memory to: The Braille Institute, 70-251 Ramon Road, Rancho Mirage, CA 92270. Memorial services in Palm Springs, CA are pending. Non-denominational graveside services 11 AM November 12 at the Alton Methodist Church, 3494 Bennoch Road, Alton, ME.
      