
        MARA--Wellington T. The Sisters of Saint Dominic of Blauvelt, New York express heartfelt sympathy to the Mara family on the passing of Mr. Wellington Mara, a GIANT among us. Our long history with the Mara family has its origin in 1923 when Mr. Timothy Mara, founder of the New York Giants, made the first of many visits to our Sisters and the children in our care. In return for a simple kindness after receiving a warm meal in the ''kitchen'' of our convent when he came seeking help for car trouble on a cold evening of 1923, Timothy Mara became a generous benefactor and beloved friend to our congregation and children. His sons, Jack and Wellington, continued to cultivate the family's faithful and consistent generosity. May Wellington rest in peace. Sister Mary Malone, OP President Sisters of Saint Dominic Blauvelt, NY
        MARA--Wellington. The medical staff, administration and the Board of Trustees of Hospital for Special Surgery regret the passing of Wellington Mara with whom we have long had an association and for whom we have always had great respect and fondness. He will be greatly missed and warmly remembered. Dean O'Hare & Aldo Papone Co-Chairs, Board of Trustees John R. Reynolds, President and CEO Russell F. Warren, MD Team Physician Hospital for Special Surgery
        MARA--Wellington T. The New York Province of the Society of Jesus mourns the death of our longtime friend and benefactor, Wellington Mara. A family man and faith-filled man, Mr. Mara will long be remembered for his commitment to those in need and those who seek to be of service to others for the greater glory of God. Our condolences and prayers are extended to his wife, Ann, and the entire Mara family. Gerald J. Chojnacki, S.J. Provincial
        MARA--Wellington. We deeply mourn the loss of Wellington Mara, the great patriarch of the New York Giants football team. He was an ideal partner, a wonderful person, and most of all a great family man who extended the feeling of ''family'' to the entire Giants team. We send our deepest condolences to his wife, Ann, his children and grandchildren. Bob and Joan Tisch Jamie and Steve Tisch Laurie Tisch Jonathan Tisch
        MARA--Wellington T. The Partners and Staff of Marks Paneth & Shron LLP extend their deepest condolences to the Mara family on the passing of Wellington T. Mara. He was a Giant among men.
      