
        SCHOEN--Luise Bernstorff died peacefully at her home in Palm Beach on September 30th three days after her 90th birthday. Daughter of Hans Bernstorff and Julie Ammon Bernstorff, she was born in New York City in 1915 and lived most of her life in New York, Southampton, the last 25 years in Palm Beach. Her father was President of The Ore & Chemical Corporation and one of the founders of Climas Molydbenum Corporation, later known as Amax, Inc. She graduated with honors from Kendall Hall School in Massachusetts and then studied philosophy and literature at Columbia General Studies until her marriage in 1936 to Bernhard G. Lippert, a diplomat. Mr. Lippert died in a mountain climbing accident in 1946, and in 1952 she married Arthur Boyer Schoen. Throughout her life, Luise was active in countless civic, charitable, and philanthropic pursuits. She served as a Governor and President of The York Club in New York, a Trustee and President of the Parrish Art Museum in Southampton, President of the Southampton Garden Club, a Director of The Southampton Hospital, a Director of The Southampton Fresh Air Home, a Governor of The Meadow Club of Southampton, a Director of The Humane Society of New York, a Director of The Girl's Vacation Fund, NY, and a Director of The Social Service Board of The New York Infirmary Hospital. During this time she was also an active member of St. James Church in New York and was inducted as a Dame of Malta. Luise is survived by her husband of 53 years, Arthur, her daughter Diana L. Shields, her son Arthur Boyer Schoen, Jr., her grandchildren: Thomas Gore Auchincloss, Jr., Diana Luise Cunningham, Marina Shields Purcell, Cristiana Torlonia Shields, Olympia Torlonia Shields, Arthur Boyer Schoen III and Caroline Hunter Schoen, as well as six great-grandchildren: Thomas Hugh Auchincloss, Daniel Buck Auchincloss, Emma A. Cunningham, Mackenzie A. Cunningham, Thomas William Purcell III, and Marina Torlonia Purcell. A private family service will be held in Southampton on Saturday, October 8th. All friends are welcome to join Luise's family in celebrating her life at ''Pheasant's Crossing'' from 5:00-7:00 that evening. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made in her memory to The Parrish Art Museum, 9 Job's Lane, Southampton, New York 11968.
      