
        GRIFFIN-BURRILL-Kathleen R. F. Professor Emeritus of Turkish Studies at Columbia University, passed away suddenly following cardiac arrest in Seattle, Washington (USA), on September 18th. She was 81. Born in Canterbury, England, on March 8th, 1924, she worked for the British Council for over eight years, including five years on their staff in Turkey. Following her marriage in 1955 to Claude W. Burrill, she came to New York, where she obtained her PhD from Columbia University, with a dissertation on ''The Quatrains of Nesimi, Fourteenth-century Hurufi''. From 1957 until her retirement in 1999, Professor Burrill published works on folk, Ottoman and modern Turkish literature, as well as teaching courses at Columbia University on modern and Ottoman Turkish language and literature, and Islamic civilization, and serving as Chair of the Department of Middle East Languages and Cultures from 1985 to 1990. She was active and held posts in numerous professional associations, including the American Turkish Society (Board of Directors, Honorary Vice President 1974-1989), the Middle East Studies Association (Founding Fellow in 1967, Director 1974 -1976), the American Association of Teachers of Turkic Languages (Founding co-member, President and most recently President Emeritus), the Turkish Studies Association (Founding member and Director 19741976), and the Institute of Turkish Studies (Founding Associate, Governing Board Member and Secretary-Treasurer). In order to be near family, she moved to Seattle in April 2001, from Princeton, NJ, where she had resided since her divorce in 1991. She is survived by her daughter, Jane Burrill Santiago, and son-in-law, Bart Santiago, who were with her at the time of her death, as well as by her elder daughter, Anne Burrill; son-in-law, Alberto Noriega Guerra; and her three grandchildren, Paloma, Roberto and Aygul, who live in Belgium but had all visited her during the summer. Over the years, she has touched many lives on different continents and will be dearly missed. Her ashes will be taken ''home'' to England for final burial, alongside her beloved parents.
      