
        MARA--Wellington. On October 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Ann Mara. Loving father of John Mara, Susan McDonnell, Chris Mara, Stephen Mara, Frank Mara, Sheila Durkin, Kathy Morehouse, Maureen Brown, Ann Marie Cacase, Meghan Brennan, and Colleen McLane. Cherished grandfather of forty grandchildren. Family will receive friends Wednesday, 6-9pm, Thursday 3-5 and 7-9pm; public visitation 5-7pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Mass of Christian Burial Friday, 10am, at the Cathedral of St. Patrick's, 50th St. and 5th Ave. In lieu of flowers, family requests that donations be made to the Boys Hope, Girls Hope, or Life Athletes, or the John V. Mara Cancer Center at St. Vincent's Hospital, or Memorial Sloan-Kettering.
        $(6$)MARA--Wellington T. The Board of Trustees of St. Patrick's Cathedral records with sorrow the passing of Wellington T. Mara who has served as a Trustee of St. Patrick's Cathedral for twelve years with great distinction and dedication holding the office of Vice President and Chairman of the Executive Committee and also serving on all the standing committees of the Board. His commitment, wisdom and leadership will be sorely missed by the members of the Board. To his wife Ann and all his bereaved family we extend our heartfelt condolences. Edward Cardinal Egan President Msgr. James K. Vaughey Executive Director
        $(6$)MARA--Wellington. Trustees, administration, faculty, alumnae and students of School of the Holy Child, Rye extend deepest condolences to John Mara, trustee, and his family on the passing of his father, Wellington T. Mara. Wellington Mara's commitment to the Catholic Church and faithbased education has inspired his family's generosity to many Catholic Schools, including School of the Holy Child. We are grateful to Wellington Mara and his family, as well as the New York Football Giants. Our prayers are with his family at this time. Elizabeth T. Marren, Chair of the Board Ann F. Sullivan, Head of School
        $(6$)MARA--Wellington T. The Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers Foundation expresses its deepest sympathies on the passing of Welllington T. Mara, beloved supporter of St. Vincent's Westchester/Manhattan, and founder of the John V. Mara Cancer Research at St. Vincent's Hospital, and the Annual NY Giants Kickoff Luncheon. Heartfelt condolences to the Mara family on the passing of this respected philanthropist, humanitarian, leader and trusted advisor. Alfred E. Smith, IV, Chair Mark G. Ackermann, President SVCMC Foundation
        $(6$)MARA--Wellington T. The Board of Trustees of Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers, medical staff and Sisters of Charity mourn the passing of dear friend and dedicated benefactor, Welllington T. Mara whose leadership and generosity greatly advanced the mission of SVCMC and the development of Catholic health care in New York. Our prayerful sympathies to his wife Ann, and the entire Mara family. Edward V. Lahey, Jr., Chair Richard J. Boyle, President and CEO Saint Vincent Catholic Medical Centers
        $(6$)MARAWELLINGTON ST#
      