
        DIBNER--David. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of David Dibner of Wilton, CT, a long-standing active member of the organization. Mr. Dibner served in many capacities on the regional and national board of directors and was a life trustee of the Board of Regents and a member of the Technion International Board of Governors. An engineer and accomplished businessman, he followed his family's tradition of commitment to Israel's technological edge and excellence in science education. He established the Bern Dibner Library in the Technion's William Davidson Faculty of Industrial Engineering and Management, in memory of his father, who had a long history of support for the Technion and a passion for the history of science and technology. A Technion Guardian who reached the highest level of commitment to the ATS, the Technion and Israel, Mr. Dibner received a Technion honorary fellowship in 2001. We extend our condolences to his wife Frances; children Brent and Relly Dibner; Daniel and Victoria Dibner; and Mark and Rachel Dibner; and grandchildren. American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Stephen A. Laser, President Evelyn Berger, Chairman Melvyn H. Bloom, Exec. V.P. Stanley Shirvan, NY Metropolitan Chapter Chair Nancy Gad-Harf, New York Metropolitan Regional Dir.
        $(6$)DIBNER--David. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of David Dibner, a long-standing American Friend known for his enduring dedication to Israel and its people. David's generous acts of philanthropy enabled the creation of the Bern Dibner Endowment Fund for Curator of the Albert Einstein Archives, and the Barbara Druss Dibner Chair for Research and Teaching the History of Science, both of which serve to promote and preserve the legacy of scientific achievement. We extend our sympathies to his wife Frances and to the entire family. AFHU George A. Schieren, President Ira Lee Sorkin, Chair Peter T. Willner, National Executive Director The Hebrew University Prof. Menachem Magidor, President
        $(6$)DIBNER--David. The Board of Trustees administration, faculty, students and alumni of Polytechnic University mourn the passing of David Dibner, a gentleman and inspiration to all who knew him, and a generous benefactor who served with distinction on the University's Board of Trustees for over 25 years. His gentle humor and generous spirit will be very much missed. We extend heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Craig Matthews, Chairman Jerry M. Hultin, President Polytechnic University
      