
        SHAMES - Abraham, who built the 1st Industrial Park in the Northeastern US in 195659, died on Sunday October 16, 2005 in Sarasota, Florida. The Westbury Industrial Park, located off Brush Hollow Road on 28 acre tract, bears his name: Shames Drive. He also built and developed the 60 acre, Cardinal Industrial Park, in Hauppauge, just south of the Long Island Expressway during 1966-68. During the 70's he introduced the novel concept of leasepurchase plans, building seven nursing homes and health related facilities on Long Island and Upstate New York. In 1977 he converted the old Roosevelt Raceway Movie Cinema on Old Country Road to Health 'N Sports Racquetball Club & Spa. During 1985 he redirected his life and moved to Longboat Key Florida. Mr. Shames was very active with Long Island and Sarasota philanthropic and civic organizations. On Long Island he had served as the President of the Mental Health Association of Nassau County; Board Member of St. Francis Hospital (Roslyn); President of the Old Westbury Hebrew Congregation; Master ofthe Masonic, Meadowbrook Lodge (Westbury); Board Member and Humanitarian Award recipient in 1984 of St. Mary's of the Angels Home in Syosset (now MercyFirst) as well as very active in Republican Party politics. He was also involved with Human Resources Center in Albertson, Boy Scouts of America, Nassau County Heart Association, Solomon Schechter Day School, and American Cancer Society. In 1983 he was named the Man of the Year by the Anti Defamation League and in 1986 he had lunch in the Cabinet Room of the White House with President Ronald Reagan. In Florida he was active in the Gift of Life Program, Rotary International; Shriners; served on the Board of the Sarasota Opera and Mote Marine Laboratory in Longboat Key. Mr. Shames was born May 14, 1920 in Brooklyn, New York and served in the US Army during World War II . He died of heart failure 71 days after the love of his life and wife of 62 years, Annette (Harris) died from a brain hemorrhage. He is survived by his sons Jerry (Lakewood Ranch, Florida); Jordan (Great Neck, New York) and Barry (Livermore, California) and daughter, Joy (Westbury, New York) and ten (10) grandchildren.
      