
        KAHN--David R. In his 47th year. Loving husband of Susy; adoring father of Teddy and Daisy; beloved son of Joan and Mike Kahn, and son-in-law of Eva Rotmistrovsky and Hector Rotmistrovsky; and loving brother of Stefanie and Douglas Kahn; cherished uncle of Lauren, Michael and Daniel Kahn; adored nephew of Stanley Kahn and Gladys and Jerome Wiesenthal, his cousins Gary Kahn, Andrew and Billie Wiesenthal, Douglas Wiesenthal, Amy and Michael Liss and Richard Rotmistrovsky. We deeply mourn the loss of our much loved David, in whose company we reveled. David Kahn was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Croscill, Inc., a leader in the field of home furnishings. David was admired by all who knew him and will be sorely missed by his family and business colleagues. The world was a better place with him in it. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Israeli Defense Fund or the Duke Eye Center.
        KAHN--David R. My best friend, devoted husband, and most adored and loving dad to Teddy and Daisy. The energy and passion of your life will live on in our hearts. We love and will forever miss you. Susy, Teddy, Daisy
        KAHN--David. We will miss you and will always remember with a smile in our hearts the wonderful vacations we took with the Kahn family. Our family will always be there for Susy, Teddy and Daisy. We love you. Richard, Michele, Dana and Nell Shuldiner
        KAHN--David. The World WIZO Executive deeply mourns the loss of the beloved son of Mike and Joan Kahn, and extends its condolences to Susy, Douglas and Stefanie, and children. Evelyn Sommer, President, WIZO USA
        KAHN--David. Moses & Singer LLP mourns the passing of our client and friend. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his loving family and friends, and his colleagues at Croscill. His intelligence, energy and dynamism will be sorely missed.
        KAHN--David. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, David Kahn, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Charles J. Block, President
        KAHN--David. Ken and I are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of David. He will be missed by the entire industry. Our hearts go out to Mike and Joan. Milt Mitler and Ken Lowery
        KAHN--David. We share with his loving family and friends their devasting loss. Priscilla & Sol
      