
        OHRSTROM--George L. Jr. 1927-2005. George Lewis Ohrstrom Jr., of The Plains, Virginia, died at his home on Thursday, October 6, 2005. Mr. Ohrstrom was born on June 9, 1927 in Bronxville, NY, the second of three children of George L. Ohrstrom, Sr. and Emma Riggs Ohrstrom. He grew up in Greenwich, CT. Mr. Ohrstrom was graduated from St. Paul's School, in New Hampshire, in 1945 and from Princeton University in 1950, following two years in the Marine Corps. In the early 1950s he worked at the State Department and in the intelligence services. He began his business career with Lehman Brothers in 1955. He joined G. L. Ohrstrom & Co. in 1960 and became the firm's lifelong Chairman in 1966. The company, founded by his father, is one of the original private equity firms which started and grew three New York Stock Exchange companies, Dover Corporation, Carlisle Companies and Roper Industries. Ohrstrom was an active sportsman. He rowed bow on the Princeton crew which finished third in the 1948 Olympic Trials. In 1949 Mr. Ohrstrom organized a team from the Princeton Cottage Club to compete in the Grand Challenge Cup at the Royal Henley Regatta in England. He was a trustee of the Princeton University Rowing Association. An avid fox hunter, he was a president of the Orange County Hunt and founder of the Bath County Hounds. As a breeder and owner of thoroughbred and steeplechase horses, Mr. Ohrstrom raced multiple stakes winners in the United States and Europe, including France's champion 3 Year Old Filly, Comtesse De Loir, and Grade 1 Stakes winner Mossflower. He had a particular passion for Timber Racing and bred and raced Appolinax among many notable winners. A highly respected philanthropist and conservationist, Mr. Ohrstrom was president of The Ohrstrom Foundation, Inc., which was established by his father in 1955, and the founder of the George L. Ohrstrom, Jr. Foundation. He led the effort for the construction of a library at St. Paul's School, in Concord, New Hampshire, which was dedicated in his honor in 1991. As a founding benefactor of the Piedmont Environmental Council, he was an early supporter of the use of conservation easements to preserve open space. In his later years, his passion was the National Sporting Library, the country's only scholarly repository dedicated exclusively to equine and field sports. As Chairman, Ohrstrom provided the leadership and vision for its growth from a bookshelf into the premier institution it is today. He is survived by his fifth wife, Jacqueline, his sister Magalen O. Bryant, his four surviving children, George F. Ohrstrom, Clarke Ohrstrom, Winifred O. Nichols, Wright R. S. Ohrstrom and five grandchildren. His previous marriages ended in divorce. He was preceded in death by his eldest son, Peter F. S. Ohrstrom. He will be buried at a private funeral service at Silver Tip Ranch in Montana. A memorial service is planned for October 21, at 11 am, at The Grace Episcopal Church in The Plains, Virginia. Contributions in Mr. Ohrstrom's memory can be made to The National Sporting Library, in Middleburg, Virginia or to the Piedmont Environmental Council in Warrenton, Virginia.
      