
        DIBNER--David. On Wednesday, September 28, 2005, David Dibner, accomplished businessman, philanthropist and civic leader, died unexpectedly at his home in Wilton, CT. Mr. Dibner, who was Chairman of the Dibner Fund, a family foundation, and former Chairman of the Burndy Corporation, was 78 years old. Mr. Dibner had a long and distinguished career. After serving in the navy in WWII, he trained as an engineer at Columbia University and continued with post-graduate studies at the London School of Economics. In 1968 he attended the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University. In his more than 30-year career at the Burndy Corporation, a leading multinational manufacturer of electrical and electronic connectors and tools, he rose from engineer to chairman of the board. Mr. Dibner was also an exceptional and committed civic leader. In Wilton, the community where he and his wife, Frances Kessler Dibner, resided for 53 years, he spearheaded and chaired the building of the Wilton High School, as well being chair and an active board member of the Norwalk Hospital. His involvement extended to business, academic and philanthropic sectors: he was a founding member of the American Business Conference and an active trustee of Polytechnic University in Brooklyn. He also served on the boards of Columbia University School of Engineering, the American Technion Society and was a member of the Committee for the Humanities at MIT. In addition, he was a fellow of the Aspen Institute and a member of the Council on Foundations. In 1989, following the death of his father, Bern Dibner, Mr. Dibner assumed responsibility for the Dibner Fund, a family philanthropy, and the Burndy Library, one of the world's outstanding collections of rare books, manuscripts, incunabula and objects in the field of the history of science and technology. Together with his wife Frances and with support of the Dibner Fund, Mr. Dibner established the Dibner Institute for the History of Science and Technology, a center for advanced study located along with the Burndy Library on the campus of MIT. In addition to the Fund's deep commitment to scholarship in the field of history of science and technology, Mr. Dibner oversaw the Fund's national and international grantmaking in science education, humanitarian aid, the environment, peaceful coexistence, Jewish heritage and culture, and local community organizations. Mr. Dibner was an avid gardener and landscaper. His hobbies included woodworking, sculpting, sailing, hiking, and travel. He deeply loved the American west for its history, art, indigenous culture and landscape. Above all else he was a loving and devoted husband to his wife of 55 years. He was a proud and loving father to his sons and daughters-in law: Brent and Relly (Wolfson) Dibner, Daniel and Victoria (Clark) Dibner, and Mark and Rachel(Zax) Dibner. He was an adored and loved by his grandchildren, Gil, Tal, Carmel, Aurora, Avalon, Bern, Sage and Skye. A memorial service will be held in the near future. In lieu of flowers, the family asks that donations be made in Mr. Dibner's memory to the Norwalk Hospital Foundation, the Wilton Volunteer Ambulance Corps or a charity of personal choice.
      