
        SHEROVER--Charles Milton. Aged 83, Of Santa Fe, NM, formerly of New York City, NY. Died October 25, 1005 in Santa Fe. Son of Maxmillian and Anna Sherover, survived by his sister, Viva Gillio (wife of the late Rocco), niece Victoria, nephews Robert and Matthew, great nieces Sarah, Anna, Amy, Sophia, Maria, first cousins Miriam, Stanley, Bob and Muriel and Alan and Alta Theisen and their son, Adam. A service for the interment of ashes will be held at 11 A.M. on November 11, 2005 at the Santa Fe Unitarian Universalist Church. A Memorial Service will be held in the Evanston, Illinois Unitarian Universalist Church at 11 AM. on January 28, 2006. Contributions to his memory may be made to The International Society for Time Study, Josiah Royce Society, The Nature Conservancy or the Animal Medical Center, 510 E. 62 St., New York City. Charles graduated from Oberlin College, served in the Army Signal Corps during World War II. He then did graduate studies at Northwestern University, and received his doctorate from New York University in philosophy. He joined the faculty at Hunter College, University of New York in l963, where he became full professor, served as Department Chair of the Philosophy Department, College Ombudsman and Chair of the Senate and Professor Emeritus in 1990. He also was a visiting professor at Emery University. Dr. Sherover was instrumental in organizing the New York Young Republicans and served as President from 1950 to 1952. His father, Maxmillian (Max) Sherover, founded the Linguaphone Corporation of America. After his father's death, Charles assumed the Presidency of the Corporation where he was responsible for introducing the first audio tape learning system for the Latin language. He founded the Educational Resources Corporation in 1965. He was the author of numerous books, including Heidegger, Kant and Time (1971), The Human Experience of Time (l975), Time, Freedom and the Common Good (1989), From Kant and Royce to Heidegger (2003), Are we IN Time, and Other Essays on Time and Temporality (2003). He edited The Development of the Democratic Idea, translated and edited Rousseau's Of the Social Contract and On Political Economy. He was a member of the American Philosophical Society, The Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy, The Society for Phenomenological and Existential Philosophy, The International Society for the Study of Time, and numerous other scholarly organizations.
      