
        HAUPT--Enid A. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and staff of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center note, with sorrow, the death of Enid A. Haupt, member of the Board of Overseers from 1979 to 1998 and one of the Center's most active and innovative philanthropists for more than half a century. Since 1946, when she made her first gift to Memorial Hospital, Mrs. Haupt's generosity has enabled the realization of many Center efforts. Her contributions were used to develop effective chemotherapy protocols for pediatric leukemia, to augment the building fund from which Memorial Hospital was constructed, and to support the development of the Center's Pediatric Day Hospital. Beginning in 1980, she established a series of endowments to permanently sustain ten Enid A. Haupt Chairs in Radiation Oncology, Cell Biology, Clinical Investigation, Developmental Biology, Hematologic Oncology, Medical Physics, Nursing, Pediatric Oncology, Surgery, and Theraputic Research, enabling us to recruit leading investigators and clinicians to the Center. In 1991, a gift from Mrs. Haupt helped create the Enid A. Haupt Pavilion, an ambulatory care facility on our main campus. Her philanthropy also established the Fresh Flower Program, ensuring the presence of fresh flowers and plants in perpetuity throughout Memorial Sloan - Kettering's patient care and public areas. Mrs. Haupt's visionary altruism, energy, creativity, and friendship will be deeply missed. James D. Robinson III Honorary Chairman Douglas A. Warner III Chairman Richard I. Beattie Vice Chairman Louis V. Gerstner, Jr. Vice Chairman John R. Gunn Executive Vice President Harold Varmus President Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
        $(6$)HAUPT--Enid. The trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of our treasured benefactor, honorary trustee, and friend, whose extraordinary generosity to the Metropolitan--both with her husband Ira and continuing after his death--blossomed over nearly six decades and had a major impact on many areas of the Museum. The funding she provided supported capital campaigns and vital acquisitions, including Picasso's 1903 masterpiece ''Blind Man's Meal.'' She made donations of important Chinese sculptures, ranging from the first to the eighth century, and sculptures from South and Southeast Asia. And, in celebration of the 50th anniversary of The Cloisters, the Metropolitan's branch museum for medieval art in northern Manhattan, she generously provided an endowment fund to maintain its gardens in perpetuity. These remarkable gardens, planted in reconstructed Romanesque and Gothic cloisters, literally bring to life the plants and gardens depicted in the paintings, illuminations, and tapestries of the Museum's medieval collections. All of these gifts reflect her sure eye, her unfailing respect for excellence, and her philanthropic spirit. We will miss her deeply and extend heartfelt condolences to her entire family. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director Emily K. Rafferty, President
        $(6$)HAUPT -- Enid Annenberg. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center are saddened by the passing of Enid Annenberg Haupt, an outstanding philanthropist. Enid Haupt and her family provided critical support during the creation and growth of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Her personal generosity and the generosity of her family to the Medical School included naming the Annenberg Building to house the new School. Enid also supported important programs in liaison psychiatry and neurology. Her commitment to Mount Sinai will long be remembered. We extend our sincere sympathy to her entire family. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., President and CEO
        $(6$)HAUPT--Enid A. The directors, staff and volunteers of the Enid A. Haupt Glass Gardens at the Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine at NYUMC deeply regret the passing of our benefactor. Her generosity has greatly enhanced the well-being of not only our patients, the hospital staff and our neighboring community but to the city and country at large with her initial concept of gardens for beauty, peace and serenity. Nancy Chambers, Director
      