
        PHILLIPS - Robert. Passed away at age 83, after a brief illness, in Florida, on October 21, 2005. He is survived by Eleanor, his wife of 55 years, his daughter Randi and her husband Robert Krieger, his son Steven and his wife Wendy, and his granddaughters, Rebecca and Elizabeth. He adored them all without limit, just as they adored him. Robbie, as he was always known, grew up in The Bronx and remained a quintessential New Yorker even after moving to Palm Beach more than 10 years ago. He founded Warbern Plastics, a manufacturer of hangers and an innovator in the shipment and display of garments. He also maintained vigorous commitments to the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and to the Chemotherapy Foundation, which he served eight years as President. Passionate about business, passionate about the fullest and most energetic appreciation of life, and passionate about people who shared his enthusiasm, he was a devoted husband, a loving and inspiring father, and a tireless friend. He will be profoundly missed. Service will be held on Monday, 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Donations can be made to the Chemotherapy Foundtion, 183 Madison Ave, NYC 10013.
        $(6$)PHILLIPS -- Robert. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Chemotherapy Foundation mourn with deep sorrow the passing of Robert Phillips, Trustee and Honorary Trustee for the past 37 years, President Emeritus (1982-1988), staunch benefactor and friend. His sophisticated understanding and dedicated efforts were profoundly influential in expanding the Foundation's grant programs and advancing chemotherapy research and clinical science for the control, cure, and prevention of cancer through innovative medical therapies. His driving force, warmth of spirit and loyalty will be remembered with affection and gratitude always. Franco M. Muggia, M.D. Chairman and Medical Dir. Barry Richter, President Chemotherapy Foundation
        $(6$)PHILLIPS--Robbie. Friends are family you pick for yourselves. Thank you for touching our lives with your loving generous heart. Margie, Bobby, David and Lauren Emden
        $(6$)PHILLIPS--Robert. Our dear friend, Robbie, your vibrance filled the room with joy. We will miss you very much. Our hearts go out to Eleanor and your loving family. Vera and Stanley Miller
      