
        ZIFF--Seymour J., 96, of the West End section of Long Branch, NJ and Palm Beach, FL after a short and courageous struggle with Lung Cancer died at his home in Long Branch on the morning of October 12, 2005. In 1962, Mr. Ziff was the principal founder of Tokyo Electron, Inc. a subsidiary of Tokyo Broadcasting Systems, which manufactured equipment for the production and testing of semiconductors. In 2002 Tokyo Electron (TEL) was ranked by Fortune Magazine as the 401st largest international corporation. Tel is listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. He was born in Hartford, CT and lived in the shore area since 1940 and has wintered in Palm Beach for over forty years. Mr. Ziff was President of New Haven Clock and Watch Company in the 1950's. From 1962-1965 Chairman of Harvey Wells and Dage-Bell Corporation which was acquired by Raytheon in 1965. In 1969, Mr. Ziff acquired SoundScriber Corporation which acquired Dual-Lite the major manufacturer of emergency lighting equipment. Mr. Ziff was a member of Temple Beth Miriam in Elberon, NJ for sixty years; a member of Hollywood Golf Club for 59 years in Deal, NJ; Banyan Golf Club in West Palm Beach, FL; active in the Jewish Federation of Greater Monmouth County; Planned Parenthood of Palm Beach and many other organizations. He is survived by two sons, Stephen and Charles both of Charleston, SC; one brother, Jerome of Charleston, SC; two sisters, Charlotte Plotle of Clarks Summit, PA and Roslyn Greenblatt of Margate, FL; five grandchildren, Andrea Cooper of Charleston, SC, David Ziff of San Antonio, TX, Charles Garrison Ziff of New York, NY, Robert Maxwell Ziff of Washington, DC, Danielle Ziff of Boulder, CO; three greatgranddaughters, Hannah Ziff of Boca Raton, FL, Honey and Jessamine Ziff of San Antonio, TX. His first grandchild, Robert Ziff of Boston, MA died in a tragic construction accident in 2003. Mr. Ziff was first married to the former Rita Louise Newmark of New York, NY in 1936; they were married for forty five years until her death on September 26, 1981. His second wife, the former Rhoda Weintraub of South Orange, NJ died in 1994. Services will be held on Sunday October 16, 2005 at 10:30am Temple Beth Miriam 180 Lincoln Avenue Elberon, NJ 07740. The private entombment will be at Mt. Neboh Cemetery Queens, NY. For Information: Bloomfield-Cooper Jewish Chapels, Ocean, N.J. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Temple Beth Miriam.
        ZIFF--Seymour. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Seymour Ziff. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jeffrey J. Siegel, Pres. Solomon S. Greenspan, Secy.
        ZIFF--Seymour. Dear Seymour, you were a great friend and I will miss you very much. Tubby
      