
        GARBER--Ella, MD, on October 27th at the age of 82. Beloved wife of Michael Garber, MD, to whom she was married for 60 years, devoted mother of Andrew Garber, MD, and loving grandmother of Jonathan and Julianna. Born in Lida, Poland, survivor of the Holocaust. Graduate of Jagiellonica University (Krakow, Poland). Diplomate in Obstetrics and Gynecology. Distinguished teacher and dedicated physician to her patients whom she attended to for over 40 years, until the very last days of her productive and outstanding life. Renowned as an authority and one of the finest physicians in her speciality. Senior Attending Physician at Beth Israel Medical Center. Member of the faculty of Albert Einstein College of Medicine. She isalso survived by the children of her late sister, Frances Dworecka, MD, niece Maria Arnett, MD, (Harvey) and nephew Roman Dworecki, MD, (Eleanor) as well as their children and several cousins. Funeral services will be held Sunday October 30, 2005 at 2PM Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue (91 Street). She was a woman of great character and dignity, loved and respected by all who knew her. She will be deeply missed. M. and A. Garber, MD's.
        GARBER--Ella, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians, nurses and staff of the Departments of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Medicine, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Ella Garber, M.D., who served as a member of the OB/GYN faculty for over forty years. To her husband, Michael Garber, M.D. and her son Andrew Garber, M.D., who are members of the Beth Israel faculty in the Department of Medicine and OB/GYN, respectively, the entire Garber family and all of Ella's loved ones, we offer our heartfelt condolences. David J. Shulkin, M.D. President and CEO Stephen P. Haveson, M.D. President, Medical Board President, Doctors Alumni Association Arnold J. Friedman, M.D. Chairman, Dept. of OB/GYN Stephen G. Baum, M.D. Chairman, Dept. of Medicine
      