
        KAHN--David R. In his 47th year. Loving husband of Susy; adoring father of Teddy and Daisy; beloved son of Joan and Mike Kahn, and son-in-law of Eva Rotmistrovsky and Hector Rotmistrovsky; and loving brother of Stefanie and Douglas Kahn; cherished uncle of Lauren, Michael and Daniel Kahn; adored nephew of Stanley Kahn and Gladys and Jerome Wiesenthal, his cousins Gary Kahn, Andrew and Billie Wiesenthal, Douglas Wiesenthal, Amy and Michael Liss and Richard Rotmistrovsky. We deeply mourn the loss of our much loved David, in whose company we reveled. David Kahn was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Croscill, Inc., a leader in the field of home furnishings. David was admired by all who knew him and will be sorely missed by his family and business colleagues. The world was a better place with him in it. In lieu of flowers, please send donations to the Israeli Defense Fund or the Duke Eye Center.
        $(6$)KAHN--David R. My best friend, devoted husband, and most adored and loving dad to Teddy and Daisy. The energy and passion of your life will live on in our hearts. We love and will forever miss you. Susy, Teddy, Daisy
        $(6$)KAHN--David R. The Advisory Board, faculty and staff of the Duke University Eye Center, Durham, NC, acknowledge with great sadness the passing of David Roger Kahn, a member of the Duke Eye Center Advisory Board, and beloved husband of Susan Kahn, the Chairperson of our Advisory Board. The Duke Eye Center family extends its heartfelt sympathies to his wife Susan, son Teddy, daughter Daisy, and family. David was a supportive friend and vital part of our organization, and will be sorely missed. David L. Epstein, M.D. Chairman Dept. of Ophthalmology Duke University Eye Center Durham, NC
        $(6$)KAHN--David. Dear David, a great merchant, a good competitor and a dear friend. You will be missed. And to the entire Kahn family, we express our condolences. S. Lichtenberg & Company The Lichtenberg family, the Goldstein family, and the Schechter family
        $(6$)KAHN--David. We will miss you and will always remember with a smile in our hearts the wonderful vacations we took with the Kahn family. Our family will always be there for Susy, Teddy and Daisy. We love you. Richard, Michele, Dana and Nell Shuldiner
        $(6$)KAHN--David. Moses & Singer LLP mourns the passing of our client and friend. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his loving family and friends, and his colleagues at Croscill. His intelligence, energy and dynamism will be sorely missed.
        $(6$)KAHN--David. A 20-year friend from the industry, club and life. We will miss your laughter, enthusiasm and compassion. We will never forget you. Leslie and Jim Cowen
        $(6$)KAHN--David. Ken and I are deeply saddened by the tragic loss of David. He will be missed by the entire industry. Our hearts go out to Mike and Joan. Milt Mitler and Ken Lowery
        $(6$)KAHN--David. We share with his loving family and friends their devasting loss. Priscilla & Sol
      