
        ROGERS -- John Stratford. Chairman and CEO of World City America Inc., and World City Foundation, died on Friday, October 7, at New York Presbyterian Hospital, of complications related to multiple myeloma. Mr. Rogers attended Trinity School in New York (class of '52), and received his Bachelor of Arts from Yale University ('55) and his LLB from New York University Law School ('59). He was a Reporter for the N.Y. Journal of Commerce while attending law school. He joined the firm of Burlingham Underwood and Lord in 1959 where he became a senior partner, practicing admiralty and international law. Mr. Rogers opened branch offices (the first Western law firm) in Saudi Arabia; also in Kuwait and Egypt. He formed the American-Saudi Business Roundtable in the 70's to promote U.S.-Saudi business partnerships. In 1990, Mr. Rogers launched the Build America initiative to seize for the American economy a share of the booming foreign-flag cruise ship industry. The prototype ship, America World City, will be the world's largest passenger ship, accommodating 6,200 guests. Mr. Rogers is survived by three sons, John S. Rogers, Jr., Roland K. Rogers, and Andrew Lewis Rogers; a brother, Dr. Hartley Rogers; a sister, Joanna Macy; and three grandchildren. A Memorial Service will be held on Thursday, October 13, 2005, in the Chapel of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church at 1:00 P.M. In lieu of flowers, contributions in John Rogers' memory may be made to: the International Myeloma Foundation, 12650 Riverside Drive, Suite 206, North Hollywood, CA. 91607-3421; www.myeloma.org. $(6$)ROGERS--John Stratford. World City America Inc. celebrates the life and work of its Chairman and Chief Executive, John S. Rogers. A visionary, an optimist, a highly intelligent and methodical man, he undertook, starting in 1989, to develop an American-flag cruise ship industry. His vision was an American-built and U.S-flag operated fleet of next - generation cruise ships -- city - ships -- which would seize for the American economy a share of the booming foreign-dominated cruise ship industry. The prototype city-ship, to be named America World City--The Westin Flagship, will accommodate 6,200 guests and will be the world's largest passenger ship by a significant margin. The construction of the city-ship will be a major stimulus for the rebuilding of the hurricane - devastated southern tier of the country, creating thousands of jobs and benefiting local economies through community participation programs. For over sixteen years, and with an investment of over $50million, World City America Inc., under Mr. Rogers' leadership, and with the support of hundreds of American corporations who stand to benefit from an American-flag presence in this $16-billion-ayear, foreign-dominated industry, has positioned the United States to enter the market with a superior product, capable of being built in the U.S. at an internationally competitive price, creating thousands of long-term selfsupporting jobs on the ship and ashore, and promising renewed economic prosperity for the coastal communities across the southern tier. For those of us who have worked side-by-side with this wonderful man for so many years, our loss is indescribable; but our purpose is noble and it will be all the more rewarding to accomplish it in his honor. $(6$)ROGERS -- John Stratford. World City Foundation mourns the loss of its beloved Chairman and Chief Executive. Mr. Rogers' concept, to harness a major capital asset (world's largest passenger ship) as a source of perpetual funding for the attainment of the Foundation's goals, reflects a growing trend among world business organizations toward assuming a more active role in creating a healthier society and a more habitable planet. World City Foundation will carry out its educational, cultural, recreational and public policy programs and activities on board the 255,000-ton vessel, America World City-The Westin Flagship, and the profits of the ship's operations will be channeled into worthwhile programs and activities throughout the country and the world, including education, environmental protection, sustainable development, corporate responsibility, international understanding, and medical research. We have had the privilege and honor to work with a man whose vision inspired us, encouraged us, taught us, and enabled us to carry on, even without him.
      