
        BERGER--Seymour. October 17, 1924 to October 4, 2005, aged 80 years. Beloved husband of Harriett, father of Stefan (Deborah) and Diane, grandfather of Carey and Todd, brother of George (Marilyn) and the late Ann Ganeles (Paul), died suddenly on October 4, 2005. He was a veteran of World War II, and served for many years as an official of SAME, the Society of Military Engineers. He was a recognized pioneer and expert in the field of construction estimation and an innovator in the introduction of computer methods for analyzing the flow of construction and its subsequent impact on construction cost estimation. His projects ranged from work on the World Trade Towers, the Brooklyn Promenade, the Kennedy Space Center, in addition to numerous school, airport and municipal projects both in this country and abroad. He taught the technique of construction cost estimation to minority contractors at the Pratt Institute, his Alma Mater. His books, Estimating & Management for Small Construction Firms, and the Berger Business Cost File were reference books in the trade for many years. He was an officer and founder of McKee-BergerMansueto, one of the country's leading construction cost consultation firms in the 1970's and 1980's, President of Berger - Hlibok - Sokolowski and, of late, Seymour Berger Construction Consultant. In addition to his professional activities, he was an active member of Temple Beth-El of Bellmore for over 50 years and cultivated a devout and meaningful religious life for himself and his family. His many interests included the Civil War, astronomy and telescope building, and collecting early American issue stamps and Civil War covers, the latter which he researched extensively and wrote about in specialty journals detailing the fate of the letter writers as well as the recipients. He imbued his children and grandchildren with a burning sense of justice, compassion, equal rights, and fairplay. For information: Gutterman's Funeral Home in Woodbury, 516921-5757. The funeral will be held Friday Oct. 7 at noon. Interment will be at New Montefiore Cemetery at Pinelawn. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Cancer Society or the Heart Fund.
      