
        FISHMAN--George N. On October 8, 2005. Devoted husband to Eudy. Beloved father to Betsy (Joel) Ziegler, Kenneth (Nancy) Fishman and Jacki (Bill) Santoro. Loving grandfather to Erin (Richard) Schoor, Todd (Helen) Cymrot, Cary Ziegler, Jason and Hayley Fishman, and Daniel and Jonathan Santoro. Loving great-grandfather to Alexis and Emma Schoor, and Sarah Cymrot. Former Chairman of the Board of Directors of Parker Jewish Institute. Member of Northeast Regional Council of AIPAC, American Jewish Congress Leadership. Founder and Director of Nassau County Police Reserve. Former Treasurer and Director of New York's Finest Foundation. Director, Florida Police Foundation. He was revered for his unfailing kindness, generosity and wisdom. Services will be held at Gutterman's, 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, NY, on October 11, at 1 pm. Donations may be made to Parker Jewish Institute, 271-11 76th Avenue, New Hyde Park, NY 11040.
        $(6$)FISHMAN--George N. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board, League, administration and staff of Parker Jewish Institute are profoundly saddened and enormously grieved by the passing of Past Chairman of the Board, George N. Fishman. We have lost a friend and mentor, the world has lost a champion of goodness and charity. Recipient of The New York Association of Homes & Services for the Aging 2005 Trustee of the Year Award, George N. Fishman was a truly dynamic member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute since 1990. Chairman of the Board from 1993 to 1997, he served with great distinction on numerous board committees and assumed a leading role in the development of the Nerken Research Center at Parker, a focal point for the study of emerging issues of aging and an important health education center. As a philanthropist, he idealized charity to improve the human condition. Support of progressive patient and resident care, and the health and well being of the elderly, were among his magnificent efforts. The Institute's Nursing Department proudly bears the Fishman name, as will its new entrance pavilion. George N. Fishman is the epitome of the compassionate and excellent leadership that has propelled Parker's growth as a nationally recognized health care and rehabilitation center. He will remain a strong and lasting inspiration to those who seek to add quality time to later life. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to wife Eudy, children Betsy and Joel, Kenneth and Nancy, Jacki and William, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. It is our hope that the fond memories you hold and the warmest thoughts of friends will help ease this most difficult time. Jerry Landsberg, Chairman Michael N. Rosenblut, President & CEO
        $(6$)FISHMAN--George. Our dearest friend, like a brother whose heart was all encompassing--the ultimate friend who will always be missed and remembered. We embrace Eudys and all the family, with love forever. Bobby, Cy, Ellen, Jane and Carol Leslie
      