
        HAUPT--Enid A. The Board, staff, and friends of The New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of our fellow board member, friend, and esteemed benefactor, Enid A. Haupt, the greatest patron American horticulture has ever known. Her visionary and generous stewardship over many decades, as well as her impassioned enthusiasm for plants, particularly orchids, and fine horticulture have been instrumental in our modern history. In 1975, Mrs. Haupt came to the rescue of the Garden's historic Conservatory, the largest Victorian glasshouse in the nation. Her creative act saved this New York City Landmark from destruction. Upon completion of its rehabilitation in 1978, the Conservatory was named in her honor. In the mid-1990s, she was the leading private donor to the Conservatory's four-year, comprehensive restoration. She has been an enthusiastic proponent of the Conservatory's popular seasonal exhibitions and flower shows and a champion of the horticulture staff's fine work. A distinguished magazine publisher and editor, ardent and knowledgeable horticulturist, and award-winning gardener in her own right, Mrs. Haupt was honored by the Garden in 1973 for her contributions that reflected ''her belief in the power of Nature to refresh and restore.'' She joined the Garden's Board of Managers in 1975, serving as Honorary Chairman of both the annual Conservatory Ball and the Conservatory Committee, and as a member of the Horticulture Committee. A generous philanthropist in many spheres, she was well known and respected for her support of many other gardens, green spaces, and horticultural organizations. Although Mrs. Haupt has left a legacy of beauty for millions to enjoy, we will miss her trusted advice, keen aesthetic judgment, elegance, enthusiasm, and true love for the Garden, the plants that live here, and the people who care for them. We extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Wilson Nolen, Chairman Thomas J. Hubbard, Chairman Emeritus Mrs. Donald B. Straus, Vice Chairman Emerita Gregory Long, President Dr. Kim E. Tripp, Director of the Garden
        HAUPT--Enid Annenberg. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Enid Annenberg Haupt, whose deep commitment to the conservation of gardens and parks, cultural institutions, and other humanitarian causes marked a lifetime of passionate philanthropic leadership. Enid's devotion extended also to the Jewish community, where her dedication and generosity profoundly impacted millions of lives around the world. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        HAUPT--Enid A. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society mourn the death of our longtime and cherished friend, Enid A. Haupt. A consummate lover of the natural world, dedicated to both flora and fauna, her great generosity helped create two groundbreaking rain forest experiences at our Bronx Zoo: the JungleWorld and Congo Gorilla Forest exhibits. She began her association with us nearly three decades ago, becoming a Trustee in 1985 and a Life Trustee in 1999. Her commitment to bring nature to all is her extraordinary legacy. David T. Schiff, Chairman Board of Trustees Steven E. Sanderson, President and CEO
      