
        SCOTT--Robert Montgomery 1929-2005. The Philadelphia Museum of Art's Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers mourn the passing of Robert Montgomery Scott, Honorary Chairman of the Board of Trustees, who served as President of the Museum from 1982 until his retirement in 1996, and was one of Philadelphia's great civic and cultural leaders. An internationalist in outlook, Bob Scott was devoted to his native Philadelphia. His commitment to the Philadelphia Museum of Art, where he served as a Trustee for over 40 years, was exemplary of the deep sense of responsibility he felt as a citizen, which also extended to his service on 17 civic and cultural boards including the Academy of Music, Pennsylvania Ballet, Curtis Institute, the Independence Foundation, the William Penn Foundation and the Fox Chase Cancer Center, among many others. Bob Scott became a Trustee of the Museum in 1965. In 1980 he became President and then assumed the role of President and CEO in 1982. During his tenure at the Museum, annual attendance rose to a high of 950,000, the endowment grew from $19.3 million dollars to over $100 million dollars, and the Museum expanded its education programs and services to a broad range of visitors and communities. He was a great ambassador, not only for the Museum, but also for philanthropy in general and his commitment to public service set the highest of standards. The Philadelphia Museum of Art has lost a true friend and father figure, and we extend our deepest sympathy to his family and friends. $(6$)SCOTT--RobertMontgomery. The family of The Curtis Institute of Music mourns the loss of its distinguished colleague and devoted friend, Robert Montgomery Scott, and extends deepest sympathy to his family. He made an indelible mark on the entire cultural life of Philadelphia, and as a Curtis trustee and president of the Mary Louise Curtis Bok Foundation, his voluminous knowledge and business acumen, impeccable artistic sensibilities, good humor, wit, generosity, and steadfast commitment to keeping the highest standards in every undertaking were essential in helping to navigate the course of our school for more than two decades. He is a major part of our institutional history and will long be remembered and beloved. Richard A. Doran, Chairman Gary Graffman President/Director The Curtis Institute of Music
      