
        TISCH--Preston Robert. 79. Died peacefully at his home in NYC on November 15th. Survived by Joan Tisch, wife of 57 years, son Steven and his wife Jamie, daughter Laurie, and son Jonathan; grandchildren, Emily, Hilary, Carolyn, William, Charles, Henry, Elizabeth, Holden, and Zachary. Brother of the late Laurence Tisch and his wife, Billie, and uncle, relative, friend and colleague to many. Cofounder and Chairman of the Board of Loews Corporation and Chairman & Co-CEO of the New York Football Giants. Dedicated to his country, state and city, Bob generously gave both his time and resources, serving in countless leadership positions, including: Postmaster General of the United States, founding Director of Citymeals-onWheels, founder and Chairman of Take the Field, Chairman of the New York City Convention & Visitors Bureau, founding Chairman of the New York City Convention and Exhibition Center Corporation, Chairman of the NYC Partnership, Inc. and the NY Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chairman of NYC Public Private Initiatives, Inc., and trustee of New York University. Funeral services will be private for family. The family will be receiving condolences on Thursday, November 17, and Sunday, November 20, from 5 to 9 PM. A memorial service will be held on Friday, December 9, 2005, at 11 AM, at Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Preston Robert Tisch Brain Tumor Research Center at Duke University, Citymeals - on Wheels, or the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism, and Sports Management at New York University. $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Benenson Capital Partners mourns the loss of our distinguished colleague, partner and friend, Bob Tisch. We will miss his insight, wisdom and personal perspective. We were lucky to have over 50 years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a man who was greatly dedicated to his family, business, philanthropy and the New York Giants. All the citizens of New York and beyond will miss his generosity and support. Those of us who know how special he was share the sense of loss with his family, friends and associates. Our deepest sympathy to Joan, Steven, Jon, Laurie and the entire Tisch family. Lawrence Benenson Bill Benenson Fred Benenson Richard Kessler Jim Stifel $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. For 40 years, Bob's passion, optimism and generosity of spirit has brightened our lives and enriched all of us in his vast, extended New York Family. He leaves such a strong presence, even as we miss him dearly. Our thoughts are with Joan, Steve, Laurie and Jon. Jay Kriegel & Kathryn McAuliffe $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. I will always cherish and remember your leadership for the benefit of the City of New York. I will remember your philanthropic work and your friendship. You were always a true gentleman and a friend. My heart is with all the members of your family. You will be missed! George S. Kaufman $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend, Bob Tisch, and would like to express our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences to Joan, Steven, Jon and Laurie and the entire Tisch family. Richard & Stephanie Kessler $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Nico Salon extends deepest sympathy to the Tisch family. Nick Mossa
      