
        MEEHAN--Miriam Fitzsimmons. Died peacefully, surrounded by her family, November 11th. Born in Brooklyn September 23, 1912, she graduated from Convent of the Sacred Heart, NY. She was a New Yorker and had homes in New York City and East Hampton. Muzzy was loved by her children, their families, her many relatives and friends. Devoted wife of the late William M. Meehan, sister of Helen F. Cahill, Eileen F. Murray and the late Charles Fitzsimmons. Loving mother of Joanne Berghold, Maureen O'Leary, Bill Meehan and Terence S. Meehan; mother-in-law of Billy Berghold, Jack O'Leary, Laura Roebuck and Emily Souvaine Meehan. Beloved grandmother of Mark and David Berghold, Kara Berghold Passaro, Tad Sennott and their spouses Betta, Amy, Rob and Jennifer Kellogg and of Luke and Matthew Meehan. Delighted great-grandmother of Michael and Nicholas Berghold, Connor Devine and Brenna Berghold, Bruno Passaro, Ronan and Huxley Sennott. Her activities and interests included: her 45 year service as a member of the Board of Directors of Catholic Big Sisters, Big Brothers; The Convent of the Sacred Heart; Patrons of the Vatican Museum; Voice of the Faithful and Bread for the World Institute. The family will greet friends at the Colony Club, 564 Park Avenue, on Monday, November 14th, from 4 to 8 pm. Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at St. Ignatius Loyola, Park Avenue at 84th Street, on Tuesday, at 11 am. A reception will follow in Wallace Hall of St. Ignatius Loyola. In lieu of flowers contributions may be sent to the Convent of the Sacred Heart Financial Aid Program, 1 East 91st Street, New York, NY 10128.
        $(6$)MEEHAN--Miriam Fitzsimmons. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff, Students, Parents and Alumnae of Convent of the Sacred Heart, New York City, deeply the mourn the passing of an exceptional alumna and treasured friend. A valiant woman with a vibrant face and a devoted Child of the Sacred Heart, the Sacred Heart community will cherish the memory of Mimi's loving spirit and remember her entire family in perpetual prayer. Mary Blake, Ed.D., Headmistress Cornelia Thornburgh, Chair, Board of Trustees Convent of the Scared Heart New York City
        $(6$)MEEHAN--Miriam Fitzsimmons. The HealthCare Chaplaincy expresses prayerful gratitude to the entire Meehan family for the joyous years and faithful friendship it shared with Mimi. May she forever enjoy the plentiful life that God has promised. The Rev. Dr. Walter J. Smith, S.J., President and CEO
        $(6$)MEEHAN--Mimi. The Board of Directors of the Catholic Big Sisters and Big Brothers notes with sadness the death of our dear friend, longtime board member and generous benefactor, Mimi Meehan. Our thoughts and prayers are with Terry and Maureen and the entire Meehan family.
      