
        EDELSTEIN--Julius C.C. Educator and public servant, died peacefully in his sleep on November 18, 2005. He will be remembered with much love, awe and pride. Contributions may be made to the Julius C.C. Edelstein Scholarship Fund at Hunter College. A memorial service will be held at a date to be announced. $(6$)EDELSTEIN--Julius C.C. The City University of New York community deeply mourns the passing of Senior Vice Chancellor Emeritus, Julius C.C. Edelstein, who contributed enormously over the many decades to the development and growth of our University system. As a prominent advisor to U.S. presidents and senators, governors and mayors, international leaders, and CUNY chancellors, he is best remembered at CUNY for his lifelong commitment to, and compassion for, economically and educationally disadvantaged students. His brilliant writing and wry sense of humor, combined with a twinkle in his eye and a delightful laugh, will always be remembered by his CUNY family. We express our deepest sympathy to his beloved daughter, Suzy, and his extended family. Benno C. Schmidt, Jr. Chairperson, Board of Trustees Matthew Goldstein Chancellor $(6$)EDELSTEIN--Julius C.C. The Board, staff and members of United Neighborhood Houses of New York, Inc. mourn the death of our Emeritus Board Member, and father of our colleague Suzy Edelstein. For decades, Julius was a leading civic figure in New York City and a great friend and supporter of the settlement house system. He dedicated his life to the cause of social justice and to reforming public policies that would benefit the less privileged of the City he loved. Sidney Lapidus, President Nancy Wackstein, Executive Director $(6$)EDELSTEIN -- Julius C.C. Brooklyn College mourns the passing of Sr. Vice Chancellor Emeritus, Julius C.C. Edelstein, a close friend and steadfast supporter of the College. Throughout a long and distinguished career as influential policymaker, educator and administrator, Julius Edelstein was an unrelenting advocate of public higher education and of the City University of New York. Christoph M. Kimmich, President $(6$)EDELSTEIN -- Julius. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and send condolences to his family. A seminal figure with a significant impact on CUNY and its Graduate Center, he was deeply dedicated to this City and the cause of higher education for all. He served as a remarkable, influential, and positive force for many, many years. William P. Kelly, President, CUNY Graduate Center
      