
        SIEGEL--Ann. The Board of Directors & the Medical Advisory Board of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation mourn the loss of Ann Siegel and extend deepest condolences to her devoted husband, Herb, and the entire family. She was beloved by all and will be greatly missed. Evelyn H. Lauder, Chairman Myra J. Biblowit, President Larry Norton, MD, Scientific Director
        $(6$)SIEGEL--Ann L., AKA''Grannie-Annie''. A quiet philanthropist and active supporter of numerous charitable organizations and a prominent member of the American Cancer Society, died peacefully on November 21, 2005 with her immediate family by her side in Manhattan. She was 74 years old. She was born and raised in Philadelphia, and was the only daughter of Isaac D. and Rita K. Levy. Her father was a prominent attorney and one of the founders of CBS. She graduated from the Stevens School and continued her education at Centenary Junior College and received a degree from the New York School of Design. She met her husband, Herb, in the summer of 1946 when she was 15 and they married following his graduation from Lehigh University in June 29, 1950. Moving to New York in 1961 she later worked on two cable TV shows: ''The Book Of The Month Club'' and ''A Conversation With'', where she arranged interviews with many she counted as close friends including Grace Kelly and Gloria Steinem, as well as Coretta Scott King, Pierre Salinger, and Indira Gandhi. She was tireless in her charitable and educational fundraising efforts for many charities including the Phoenix House, Literacy Partners, and the Frank Sinatra School of Arts. She created the Ann L. Siegel Scholarships in journalism and pre medical studies at Lehigh University. Following her own diagnosis with breast cancer she focused primarily on cancer. She created and became the Chairperson for the American Cancer Society's Gift Giving Program -The Holiday Card Collection, and became a Trustee of the American Cancer Foundation. As a member of the President's Council at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, she actively supported the Breast Cancer Research Kettering Cancer Center and also established the Ann L. Siegel Postdoctoral Fellowship. For the Memorial Sloan Kettering Diagnostic Breast Cancer Center she established three rooms, each housing its own mammography machine. In recognition of her efforts she was awarded the prestigious Alfred P.Sloane, Jr. Memorial Award. In addition to Herbert J. Siegel, her loving husband of 55 years, she is survived by her two sons, John C. Siegel, and William D. Siegel, her daughter-in-law Jane E. Siegel and her adored grandchildren, Jack and Holly Siegel. Her husband always credited her as the ''wind beneath my wings'' and she is best described by the loving tribute written by her husband and engraved on the plaque at the dormitory at Blair Academy affectionately named ''Annie Hall'' which reads, ''Named in honor of Ann Levy Siegel, better known as ''Grannie Annie'', who as a teenager, young wife, mother of two sons and grandmother, understood what words like love, friendship, courage, helping and giving really mean, and lived her life doing just that.'' The family will be holding a private service. The family has requested that in lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Memorial Sloan Kettering Directors Fund MSK 64 or the American Cancer Society's Gift Giving Program --The Holiday Card Collection.
        $(6$)SIEGEL--Ann L. The American Cancer Society mourns the passing of our dear and dedicated ''family member,'' volunteer, fund raiser and contributor, whose commitment and compassion to the fight against cancer for nearly 15 years were unmatched. Ann worked tirelessly to raise awareness about our organization's mission and supported our research efforts. She served as a member of the national Foundation Board of Trustees and was a member of the Eastern Division's Special Events Comittee. Ann was the proud founder and chair of the Holiday Card Collection Program, currently in its 13th year. She raised nearly $3 million for the Society through this effort. In addition to being a strong supporter of our annual special events, she chaired the Gala honoring Tony Bennett in 1990. In 1993, she received the distinguished Alfred P. Sloan, Jr. Memorial Award. In one of her collection catalogs for the American Cancer Society, Ann summarized her commitment to our cause by stating, ''by helping to fight this devastating disease, you will help to make a world free from cancer for us and our future generations.'' While we celebrate her life and our many memories of her, we will deeply miss her passion, her presence, and her caring spirit. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Ann's husband and best friend, Herb, and the entire family. American Cancer Society Donald Distasio Eastern Division CEO Karen Radwin Eastern Division Senior VP and staff and volunteers
        $(6$)SIEGEL--Ann L. Weill Medical College of Cornell University mourns the loss of our dear friend Ann L. Siegel, beloved wife of Herb Siegel, member of our Board of Overseers, and steadfast supporter of the College. The Ann Levy Siegel Teaching Scholars Program for implementing innovative methods of teaching young doctors is named in her honor. Ann and Herb were co-chairs and generous benefactors of the ''Fete de Famille'' benefit for AIDS-related care, and recently established a distinguished professorship of clinical medicine. We wish our heartfelt condolences to Herb and the entire Siegel family. Sanford I. Weill Chairman Board of Overseers Antonio M. Gotto Jr., M.D., Dean Weill Cornell Medical College
        $(6$)SIEGEL--Ann L. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Ann Siegel, beloved wife of Herbert J. Siegel whose deep commitment is marked by a boundless generosity and devotion that enriches the lives of millions in New York, Israel, and around the world. We extend our deepest sympathies to Herbert and the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)SIEGEL--Ann L. Ann was a true hero in the eyes of us all. Her warmth, sincerity and love will always be with us. Our heartfelt sympathy to our dear and close friend Herb. Joanie and Murray H. Goodman
        $(6$)SIEGEL--Ann L. Your smile will always be the sunshine of our lives. We shall miss you forever and send our warmest love always to you and your ''Herbie.'' Richard and Diana Feldman
      