
        BROKKEN--James R. May 24, 1941-November 3, 2005. Resident of New York City, NY, Fire Island Pines, NY and Palm Springs, CA died suddenly of a heart attack on Thursday, November 3, 2005 in Manhattan. Born May 24, 1941, the cherished third son of Edwin S. Sr. and Benita ''Bonnie'' Brokken, Jim's childhood was spent on the family cattle farm with five brothers and a sister west of Harmony, MN. In his early teens, occasional trips to visit relatives in the United States sparked an interest in travel that would continue throughout his life. Despite the untimely death of his father and resulting family obligations, he remained undeterred in pursuing his education. After receiving a B.S. in Business from the University of Minnesota, in 1963, he served his country as a Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy aboard the aircraft carrier USS Independence in the Vietnam and European Theatres. Returning stateside, he joined Northwestern Bank in Minneapolis, MN and continued his education receiving in 1969, a Master's in International Business from the American Graduate School of International Management (Thunderbird), Phoenix, AZ. After a year at Ford Motor Company in Detroit, MI, Jim accepted a position with Manufacturers Hanover Bank and moved to New York City. He remained with the bank from 1970 until his retirement in 1991, as Executive Vice President-Group Head of Europe. In retirement, he continued to provide advisory services through JR Brokken Investments to select clients and has pursued personal interests in history, travel and family, as well as philanthropic interests in education, human rights, and social services. Jim's passing leaves an unimaginable void for his family and friends. He had a loving generous spirit and lived life to the fullest measure. Preceded in death by his parents, partner of 22 years, Ed Schroer and brother Bingham Brokken. Survived by brothers Dr. Edwin (Pat) Brokken of NJ, Dr. William (Doris) Brokken of CA, Dr. Thomas (Sally) Brokken of FL, Frederick (Kay) Brokken of MN, and sister Bonnie (Jim) Bradt of CA and many loving nephews and nieces and devoted friends. A memorial service celebrating Jim's life will be held Thursday November 10, 2005, at the Waldorf - Astoria Starlight Roof, New York City. Details available from Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel 212-288-3500. Interment at Arlington National Cemetery. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made in accordance with his wishes to: Thunderbird, the Garvin School of International Management, www.thunderbird.edu; God's Love We Deliver, www.godslovewedeliver.org; and Puppies Behind Bars, www.puppiesbehindbars.com $(6$)BROKKEN--James R. We are deeply saddened by the sudden death of our friend, mentor and a man of impeccable integrity, intelligence, style and our rock in an uncertain world. As previously agreed EDC will no longer exist and the brilliant memories of those times will have to carry us through the remainder of our lives. We'll miss you at the beach, on the dance floor, at all the wonderful restaurants and in all your travels. There will be a significant void in our lives. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire Brokken family. The Dining Club
      