
        GOLDSTEIN--Marvin J. Of Rye, NY, died at 70 from a sudden and unknown illness on Tuesday, November 2, 2005 at Greenwich Hospital. He was born on March 28, 1935 in Brooklyn, NY to Abraham and Betty Feinglass Goldstein. He graduated with a B.S. in 1956 and a J.D. in 1959 from New York University and most of his Masters in Tax Law. Mr. Goldstein practiced corporate and securities law for the past 46 years with talent, focus, precision, creativity, integrity and total devotion to his clients. He was a member of the New York Bar, admitted to practice before the Federal District Courts for the Eastern and Southern Districts of New York, the Supreme Court of the United States and was a member of the American Bar Association and the Bar Association of the City of New York. Mr. Goldstein served in the United States Army from 1959 through 1965. He lived in Rye for the past 25 years where he served on the RCTV Committee and was very active in the community. He brought the Jimmy Connors Champions Tour to Westchester Country Club in order to create an effective and lasting source of charitable funds. He was a member of the Westchester Country Club and the Yale Club. Mr. Goldstein will be remembered for the integrity, compassion, vitality, steadfastness with which he lived life and the boundless love, loyalty and generosity he showered upon his family, friends and clients. He is survived by Linda Simonton Goldstein, his devoted wife, Aimee Goldstein Beldock, his daughter, and William Garnett Simonton Goldstein, his 17 year old precious son. A memorial service will be held at the Rye Presbyterian Church at 4:00 PM on Monday, November 7, 2005, to be followed by a reception at the Westchester Country Club.
        $(6$)GOLDSTEIN--Marvin J. The staff and partners of Kleinfeld Bridal Corporation are deeply saddened by the sudden death of their friend, partner and counselor--a man of impeccable integrity, decency and intelligence. There will be a significant void in our lives. We extend our deepest condolences to Linda, Aimee and William. Kleinfeld Bridal Corporation Wayne Rogers, Chairman and Co-CEO Ronald R. Rothstein, Co-CEO Mara Urshel, President
        $(6$)GOLDSTEIN--Marvin J. The Rye Country Day School community deeply mourns the sudden loss of a longtime friend and parent. Our heartfelt condolences go to his wife, alumna Linda, and his children, alumna Aimee and Will, a current senior. Richard D. Segal, President of the Board of Trustees Scott A. Nelson, Headmaster
      