
        BAKER--William O. The Board of Trustees, faculty, students, and staff of The Rockefeller University deeply mourn the passing of our cherished friend, Dr. William O. Baker. A man of remarkable abilities and compassionate humanism, Bill Baker was a vital force in shaping The Rockefeller University over the course of four decades, as Trustee and then Board Chairman, and finally as Chairman Emeritus. It was our great privilege to award him an honorary degree in 1990 and the David Rockefeller Award for Extraordinary Service to the University in 1997. His memory lives on in the numerous outstanding scientists he recruited to the University (including two Nobel laureates), the research building and two residential towers constructed on his watch, and the William O. Baker Graduate Fellowships, established in his honor by The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. Bill Baker possessed one of the most broad-gauged, deep, and penetrating minds of the 20th Century. Equally remarkable was his eloquent and extraordinarily beautiful use of the English language in writing and in speech. As head of Bell Labs, he was responsible for directing programs that led to such technological wonders as the laser, digital computing, cellular telephones, and superconducting magnets. What Bell Labs achieved under his leadership, during an extraordinary period of technological growth and development, created an entirely new paradigm for the enlightened corporation. Bill Baker once wrote that ''humanism and science coexist, occasionally connect, but rarely conjoin.'' In him, they did indeed conjoin. His humanism and compassion, as well as his kind and gracious way of treating others, has had a lasting impact on so many lives and is part of the cultural fabric we cherish at The Rockefeller University. He and his beloved Frances, who predeceased him, embodied all that is best in human nature and the human spirit. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to their son, Joseph, and everyone whose life he touched. Paul Nurse, President Joshua Lederberg and Torsten Wiesel, Presidents Emeritus Thomas Sakmar, Former Acting President Russell Carson, Chairman Richard Furlaud, Chairman Emeritus David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman The Rockefeller University
        $(6$)BAKER--Dr. William O. The Directors, Officers and staff of General American Investors Company, Inc. are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague, Bill Baker. A Director for 13 years and a Director Emeritus since 1996, Bill served the Company with great distinction and dedication, providing us with the benefit of his keen intellect, broad knowledge and wise counsel. We extend our condolences to the members of his family. Lawrence B. Buttenwieser Chairman, Board of Directors
      