
        OSCARD--Fifi. The Mercantile Library of NY mourns the death of Fifi Oscard, esteemed member of its Board of Directors. Her concern for writers, her deep love of literature, her humor, intelligence and spirited embrace of life in this city will be much missed. She was an extraordinary human being, a wonderful Board member, and a cherished friend. Our deepest sympathy to her family and to all who loved her. The Board of Directors, staff, and members of the Mercantile Library of NY
        $(6$)OSCARD--Fifi. The nationally-known, highly-respected Artists Representative, Fifi Oscard, a.k.a. Fifi Steinmetz, died suddenly on Nov. 12th at the age of 85. This vibrant, determined and thoughtful woman was esteemed by several generations of authors, playwrights, actors and directors whom she represented. The Fifi Oscard Agency, which has handled clients such as Orson Welles, Alexander Scourby, Jack Matlock, William Shatner, Art Buchwald, George Plimpton, Arthur Ashe, Donnie Brasco, Jack Palance and the Margaret Edson's Pulitzer Prize winning play ''Wit'' has been in continuous business for over 50 years. Legend has it that the movie ''Fame'' was created at Fifi's desk! Fifi was passionate about people, theatre, literature and politics and was a source of inspiration for many. Ms. Oscard sat on the Board of Directors of the Mercantile Library of New York, the New York Hall of Science and the Avignon/ New York Film Festival. She was also on the Council of the Temple of Understanding, a member of the Cosmopolitan Club, the Coffee House, and The Women's Forum. She received a Lifetime Achievement Award in 2002 from the League of Professional Theatre Women for her countless contributions to the American theatre. Fifi Oscard is survived by her son, Eric Steinmetz and his wife Sylvie, six grandchildren, Victoria Steinmetz, Alexandra Galantic and her husband John, Cyrele Steinmetz, Graham Murray and his wife Susan, Shepherd Murray and his wife Margo, Ian Murray, as well as five great-grandchildren, Alexi, Zachary, Cooper, Tucker and Saylor. The family kindly requests all donations be made to the Mercantile Library, 17 East 47th St, NY, NY 10017, (212) 755 6710
      