
        HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Aged 70, November 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Jo Ann Malkin Horowitz, loving father of Jay (Suzanne) and Stephen (Dorsey), dear stepfather of Harold Malkin (Jennifer) and Jill Addeo (Geoffrey) and adored grandfather Max, Ben, Leo, Ryan and Olivia. Born February 13, 1935, graduated Barnard School For Boys and Brown University '56. Partner in specialist firm of Phelan, Silver until 1982. Past Chairman of New York Futures Exchange and an Executive Vice-President of The New York Stock Exchange. Retired in 1995, and became a full time volunteer on the pediatric floor of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center where he has spent the past ten years. Former President of Ramapo Anchorage Camp, ex board member of Downtown Hospital and active in Junior Achievement and Principal for a Day. During his financial career, Lew was known for his electric neckties and during his volunteer career, for his collection of fabulous hats. Lew brought smiles and good humor everywhere he went. He is loved by so many and will be deeply missed by all whose lives he touched. Donations in his memory may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) for the Lewis Horowitz Pediatric Recreation Fund, 1275 York Ave., NY, NY 10021 attention Nina J. Pickett. Memorial service, Wednesday, November 30, at 4PM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St.
        $(6$)HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Jay Horowitz and Stephen Horowitz and their families mourn the loss of their loving father, Lewis. We will be receiving family and friends on Thursday evening, December 1, from 6 pm to 9 pm, at the Harmonie Club, 4 East 60th St. With love, Suzanne and Jay, Stephen, Dorsey and Olivia
        $(6$)HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Goodbye, good friend! We were all your kids and will miss your love and care. Wear a wonderful hat!! Manny, Skippy and all the children
        $(6$)HOROWITZ--Lew. Lew, how will I spend my Sundays? No longer two hours of tennis singles followed by a long lunch of intimacy, humor and warmth. Lew, you were the most unforgettable man I ever met. Everyone returned your warmth with love and admiration. I miss you big Lew. David Caplan
        $(6$)HOROWITZ--Lewis. We marvel at the many hearts you touched and the passionate way you lived life. We're left with memories of your warmth and boundless love. You are an inspiration to all. Bobbi and Bernie Rothman and Greenebaum Family
        $(6$)HOROWITZ -- Lewis. You were a dear and loving friend. We will always remember your smile, your laugh and the joy you brought to all. Felice and Bert
        $(6$)HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Laughs and lobs, Times' and toasts, mysteries and music, gone for now, but your smile will be with us always. Gilda and Henry
        $(6$)HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Lew Lew, we love you so much. You were the most fun in our lives. Lots of love and hugs to the world's best grandpa. Max, Ben, Leo and Ryan
        $(6$)HOROWITZ--Lew. You will forever be a part of me. With love in my heart, Marion (The Queen)
      