
        SIEGEL--Ann L., AKA''Grannie-Annie''. A quiet philanthropist and active supporter of numerous charitable organizations and a prominent member of the American Cancer Society, died peacefully on November 21, 2005 with her immediate family by her side in Manhattan. She was 74 years old. She was born and raised in Philadelphia, and was the only daughter of Isaac D. and Rita K. Levy. Her father was a prominent attorney and one of the founders of CBS. She graduated from the Stevens School and continued her education at Centenary Junior College and received a degree from the New York School of Design. She met her husband, Herb, in the summer of 1946 when she was 15 and they married following his graduation from Lehigh University in June 29, 1950. Moving to New York in 1961 she later worked on two cable TV shows: ''The Book Of The Month Club'' and ''A Conversation With'', where she arranged interviews with many she counted as close friends including Grace Kelly and Gloria Steinem, as well as Coretta Scott King, Pierre Salinger, and Indira Gandhi. She was tireless in her charitable and educational fundraising efforts for many charities including the Phoenix House, Literacy Partners, and the Frank Sinatra School of Arts. She created the Ann L. Siegel Scholarships in journalism and pre medical studies at Lehigh University. Following her own diagnosis with breast cancer she focused primarily on cancer. She created and became the Chairperson for the American Cancer Society's Gift Giving Program -The Holiday Card Collection, and became a Trustee of the American Cancer Foundation. As a member of the President's Council at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center, she actively supported the Breast Cancer Research Kettering Cancer Center and also established the Ann L. Siegel Postdoctoral Fellowship. For the Memorial Sloan Kettering Diagnostic Breast Cancer Center she established three rooms, each housing its own mammography machine. In recognition of her efforts she was awarded the prestigious Alfred P.Sloane, Jr. Memorial Award. In addition to Herbert J. Siegel, her loving husband of 55 years, she is survived by her two sons, John C. Siegel, and William D. Siegel, her daughter-in-law Jane E. Siegel and her adored grandchildren, Jack and Holly Siegel. Her husband always credited her as the ''wind beneath my wings'' and she is best described by the loving tribute written by her husband and engraved on the plaque at the dormitory at Blair Academy affectionately named ''Annie Hall'' which reads, ''Named in honor of Ann Levy Siegel, better known as ''Grannie Annie'', who as a teenager, young wife, mother of two sons and grandmother, understood what words like love, friendship, courage, helping and giving really mean, and lived her life doing just that.'' The family will be holding a private service. The family has requested that in lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Memorial Sloan Kettering Directors Fund MSK 64 or the American Cancer Society's Gift Giving Program --The Holiday Card Collection.
        $(6$)SIEGEL--Ann L. The Staff, Volunteers and Board of Directors of The American Cancer Society of New York and New Jersey mourn the loss of Ann Siegel, beloved wife of Herbert J. Siegel. It is with deep sadness that we recognize the passing of this dedicated volunteer and contributor to the fight against cancer. Some of Ann's significant contributions include former Foundation Trustee, Founder Holiday Card Program, and recipient of The Distinguished Alfred P. Sloan, Jr. Memorial Award. Ann's generosity and passion for the cause and caring spirit will be deeply missed. Our deepest sympathies to the entire Siegel family. American Cancer Society Donald Distasio, Eastern Division CEO Carmel Cohen, M.D., Eastern Division Board President
      