
        MORROW--Alison, 91. Died peacefully at home in New York City on October 26, after a short illness. She was born on April 15, 1914 in New York City to the late Dr. Albert Sidney Morrow and Marjorie Wyld Morrow. Growing up in Garden City, Long Island, Alison graduated from Cathedral School of St. Mary in 1931. Trained as a librarian, Alison worked as head librarian at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Research Center in Rye, New York. She retired in 1984. During World War II she joined the American Red Cross and served overseas in Belfast, Northern Ireland, then after the war, in Germany. Her father was a prominent New York surgeon who published two early twentieth century medical texts: ''The Immediate Care of the Injured'' in 1906, and ''Diagnostic and Therapeutic Technic: A Manual of Practical Procedures Employed in Diagnosis and Treatment'' in 1911. Never marrying, Alison had a gift for friendship and her optimism and good spirit and humor were treasured by all who knew her. She enjoyed sailing along the coast of Maine with friends each summer. A longtime member of the Hasbrouck Family Association of New Paltz, New York, Alison was a descendant of the Huguenots who settled in Ulster County to escape religious persecution in Europe. She especially loved the Hudson Valley, where her family long owned a summer home in Cornwall-on-Hudson, and Central Park, which she enjoyed by wheelchair until two weeks before her death. She was predeceased by her brother, Albert Sidney Morrow Jr., of Cornwall, New York. Survivors include nephews Christopher and Ian Marrow, Ian's wife Patricia O'Reilly, sister-in-law Barbara Morrow, all of Cornwall, goddaughters in the United States, England and South Aficia, and cousins. In her last years she got great joy and amusement from her grandniece, Cliona Morrow, and grandnephew, Cian Morrow, both of Cornwall. She lived a long, full life with great spirit, good humor and grace. Ally is greatly missed by her family and friends. Graveside service and burial will be at the convenience of the family.
      