
        TISCH--Preston Robert. 79. Died peacefully at his home in NYC on November 15th. Survived by Joan Tisch, wife of 57 years, son Steven and his wife Jamie, daughter Laurie, and son Jonathan; grandchildren, Emily, Hilary, Carolyn, William, Charles, Henry, Elizabeth, Holden, and Zachary. Brother of the late Laurence Tisch and his wife, Billie, and uncle, relative, friend and colleague to many. Cofounder and Chairman of the Board of Loews Corporation and Chairman & Co-CEO of the New York Football Giants. Dedicated to his country, state and city, Bob generously gave both his time and resources, serving in countless leadership positions, including: Postmaster General of the United States, founding Director of Citymeals-onWheels, founder and Chairman of Take the Field, Chairman of the New York City Convention & Visitors Bureau, founding Chairman of the New York City Convention and Exhibition Center Corporation, Chairman of the NYC Partnership, Inc. and the NY Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chairman of NYC Public Private Initiatives, Inc., and trustee of New York University. Funeral services will be private for family. The family will be receiving condolences on Thursday, November 17, and Sunday, November 20, from 5 to 9 PM. A memorial service will be held on Friday, December 9, 2005, at 11 AM, at Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Preston Robert Tisch Brain Tumor Research Center at Duke University, Citymeals - on Wheels, or the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism, and Sports Management at New York University.
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Tufts community is deeply saddened by the loss of Preston Robert Tisch. Bob Tisch was an extraordinary leader, a wonderful human being, and a generous friend. He exemplified everything we at Tufts hope that our students will become. He was an imaginative and creative businessman, a generous philanthropist, and a true public citizen. Most of all, Bob Tisch was a people person, downto-earth, quick witted and able to connect with people from all walks of life. Bob was also a risk taker. He placed a big bet on a small New England university many years ago, well before others recognized our potential. Tufts University is the distinguished institution it is today in part because of the confidence that Bob Tisch placed in us, and that inspired so many others to follow his lead. Bob Tisch touched many lives in his own lifetime, across the arts, education, civic organizations, and human service initiatives. We at Tufts are grateful for the opportunity to have known this extraordinary man. We extend heartfelt condolences to Joan, his wife, his son Jonathan, an alumnus, trustee, and overseer of Tufts, his son Steven, an alumnus of Tufts, his daughter Laurie, and the entire Tisch family. James A. Stern, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Tufts University Lawrence S. Bacow, President, Tufts University
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The 92nd Street Y Board of Directors and staff mourn with heavy hearts the passing of Bob Tisch, beloved husband of our Board member Joan Tisch. Bob and Joan are longtime devoted members of the 92nd Street Y family. Together they formed the Tisch Center for the Arts, which produces the renowned music and reading series at the Y. Bob's good will and deep humanity will be missed by all who were privileged to know him. Our prayers go out to Joan, their daughter Laurie, their two sons Steven and Jonathan and their grandchildren as well as the rest of the Tisch family. May the Tisch family celebrate this remarkable man's life and be comforted by the memory of all that Bob and his family did to enrich the world. Bob will be dearly missed by the community and by his many friends, colleagues and admirers. As his life was a blessing so may his memory be. With great admiration and respect, Michael Goldstein, President Matthew Bronfman, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Bob was New York's Most Valuable Player. Philanthropic, civic-minded, politically involved, family oriented, his unique qualities inspired and motivated us all. His decency, wit, friendship and common humanity were extraordinary. For us Bob was our most valued, trusted and loved friend. He was larger than life and for over forty years his friendship and family involvement were integral to our lives. He was a mainstay to us, our children and all of his close friends. He was always available to listen, to help, to offer guidance or just ''take care of it.'' Family occasions will not be the same anymore. Bob was fortunate to be surrounded by a large and devoted family who adored him. His friends felt the same way. Our deepest sympathy to Joan and the entire Tisch family. Linda and Sandy
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Benenson Capital Partners mourns the loss of our distinguished colleague, partner and friend, Bob Tisch. We will miss his insight, wisdom and personal perspective. We were lucky to have over 50 years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a man who was greatly dedicated to his family, business, philanthropy and the New York Giants. All the citizens of New York and beyond will miss his generosity and support. Those of us who know how special he was share the sense of loss with his family, friends and associates. Our deepest sympathy to Joan, Steven, Jon, Laurie and the entire Tisch family. Lawrence Benenson Bill Benenson Fred Benenson Richard Kessler Jim Stifel
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. It is impossible to think of New York City without Bob Tisch. He was the essence of everything that is the very best of New York, and this City will never be the same without him. A giant of a man, his philanthropy is legend, his importance within the business community needs no mention. But it is his many kindnesses that will be so deeply remembered by all who knew him--especially the little guy. He always had a smile, a warm and caring word and, most important, his time to offer to someone who could only look up at him in amazement that there they were chatting away with this great man as if they had been friends forever. He once said, ''I want to be everyone's friend''--and he was. Blanche Sprague
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. It is with deep sadness that the Board of Directors of the Travel Business Roundtable, and the leaders of the U.S. travel and tourism industry, mourn the loss of Bob Tisch, father of our tireless and devoted Chairman, Jonathan. A renowned business and civic leader, Bob was a true industry visionary who has left a permanent impression on the people and businesses that comprise the travel and tourism industry in America. Bob and Jonathan are the only father and son team to have been inducted into the Travel Industry Association of America's Hall of Leaders, the industry's highest honor. We extend our deepest sympathies to the entire Tisch family, most notably to Joan, Jonathan, Laurie, Steven and the grandchildren.
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Board of Directors, staff, volunteers, families and children of the Ronald McDonald House of New York deeply regret the passing of a wonderful man, great philanthropist and longtime supporter of the House. The efforts of Preston Robert Tisch and the New York Football Giants over the past nine years have helped many of our families through difficult times. We send our prayers and condolences to the Tisch family and the entire New York Football Giants Organization. Michael Hegarty Chairman of the Board Ronald McDonald House of New York William T. Sullivan President and CEO Ronald McDonald House of New York
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Jerusalem Foundation deeply mourns the passing of Bob Tisch, a devoted friend and benefactor of Jerusalem. and generous spirit will forever live on in the projects he and his family helped to bring to life, especially the Tisch Family Zoological Gardens. This distinguished man will be greatly missed for his warmth, wisdom and compassion. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Joan, and the entire Tisch family. Teddy Kollek, Founding Chairman Dan Meridor, Int'l Chairman Ruth Cheshin, Int'l President Alan G. Hassenfeld, Chairman, USA Moshe Fogel, Exec. Dir., USA
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the loss of Preston Robert Tisch, a Museum Founder and one of its earliest supporters. His long-standing commitment to Holocaust remembrance and education was exemplary. The Museum sends its deepest condolences to his wife, Joan, their children, Jonathan, Steven and Laurie, to Council Member, Merryl and her husband, James, Museum Founder, Billie, and to the entire Tisch family. Fred S. Zeidman, Chairman Joel M. Geiderman Vice Chairman Sara J. Bloomfield, Director United States Holocaust Memorial Museum
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Board of Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art mourns the passing of Preston Robert Tisch, beloved father of our Trustee, Laurie Tisch. Throughout his life, Bob enriched the lives of so many people. He will always be fondly remembered for his astute business sense, exemplary leadership and most of all for his philanthropy and kindness. He will be sorely missed by all of us. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Joan, his children Steve, Jon and Laurie, and the entire Tisch family. Leonard A. Lauder, Chairman Robert J. Hurst, President Adam D. Weinberg, Director
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Board of Directors and staff of the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation mourn the loss of our dear friend Robert Tisch. A cherished member of the Foundation's family, his tremendous commitment to philanthropy and community service has had a dramatic impact on the lives of so many children and families affected by HIV/AIDS around the world. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Joan, his children, Jon, Steve, and Laurie, and to the entire Tisch family. Bob will always be an inspiration. He will be missed but never forgotten.
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The University of Michigan is saddened by the passing of our great alumnus Bob Tisch. He was a great friend and benefactor to the University. Bob's philanthropy touched the lives of all our students through his gifts to the humanities, Judaic Studies and athletics. We will miss his leadership as a volunteer and advisor. We send our condolences to Joan, Laurie, Steven, Jonathan, and the entire family. Mary Sue Coleman, President and Regents of the University of Michigan
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The directors, staff, volunteers, and clients of Gay Men's Health Crisis send our condolences and love to Joan Tisch and the entire Tisch family in gratitude for their extraordinary generosity and personal commitment to people living with HIV and AIDS. Your name graces our building. Your spirit guides our work. And your family is in our hearts. John E. Colon, Chair, Board of Directors Ana Oliveira, Exec. Dir. Gay Men's Health Crisis
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Ohel Children's Home and Family Services mourns the passing of Preston Robert Tisch, a caring, visionary leader of the community and a dear friend of Ohel's children. May his legacy act as a source of inspiration to all those whom he touched. Our profound sympathy and sincere condolences to the family. Marvin Hellman, President Mrs. Miriam Lubling David Mandel Norman B. Gildin
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Bob has been someone we both have always admired, not only for his generosity to our City, but his spirit and enthusiasm and his devotion to his wonderful partner, Joan, his children, Laurie, Jon, Steve, daughter-in-law, Jamie, and his grandchildren. It is a privilege and an honor for us to have had him as a friend and such a sad loss for all of us. May he rest in peace. With our love, Joan and Sandy Weill
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Without the lead gift from Bob Tisch, the George H. Heyman Center for Philanthropy and Fundraising at NYU, would never have come into existence. This gift was also an expression of Bob's deep respect and affection for George Heyman and his understanding that philanthropy is critical to American society. The Heyman Center extends its deepest sympathy to Joan and their children. Naomi Levine, Chair
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Preston Robert Tisch. Bob was a generous supporter of ADL and devoted to the Jewish people. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Joan, his children, Laurie, Jonathan and Steven, and the entire family. Barbara B. Balser National Chair Abraham H. Foxman National Director
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston R. (Bob). My friend for all these many years. Always there for me, my husband, Arthur, and my children, Toni and Mark whenever we had need of you. Never too busy to take our phone calls or help with our questions. No words can express how much I miss you. My memories are so very special and my life is made better for having had you as my friend. Carol
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. At a time when we can least afford it, we have lost a man of mythic political and social responsibility and commitment. The difference he made in all the lives he touched is beyond measure. My love and sympathy to my dear friend Joan, her children, Steve, Jon and Laurie and her grandchildren. Joy Tomchin
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The National Officers of Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity express condolences to the family of Preston Robert Tisch. He was a loyal alumnus, and student member at both Bucknell and U of Michigan chapters, a devoted and active member since his initiation in 1944. Aaron Girson, Exec Director William P. Schwartz, Exec Director Emeritus
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. I will always cherish and remember your leadership for the benefit of the City of New York. I will remember your philanthropic work and your friendship. You were always a true gentleman and a friend. My heart is with all the members of your family. You will be missed! George S. Kaufman
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Bob, a great humanitarian, a great personal friend and a great friend to New York City. Loved and admired by all. Our condolences to Joan, Steven, Jon, Laurie and all of the grandchildren. Irving Schneider Lynn Schneider Mindy Schneider Lesser & families
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend, Bob Tisch, and would like to express our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences to Joan, Steven, Jon and Laurie and the entire Tisch family. Richard & Stephanie Kessler
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. I remember you as a wonderful man who always thought of everybody. My deepest sympathies to a devoted wife, Joan and his wonderful children Jon, Steve and Laurie. Elaine Sargent
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Bob Tisch personified the best that human beings can be. I was honored to call him a friend. I will surely miss him. My condolences to Jonathan and family. Norman Liss
        $(6$)TISCH--Bob. Our hearts break for the entire Tisch family. Bob will remain forever in our prayers. With love, Bonnie and Jacob
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Bob, you were always a true friend. I join the long list of those who will miss you. Joy
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Nico Salon extends deepest sympathy to the Tisch family. Nick Mossa
      