
        TISCH--Preston Robert. 79. Died peacefully at his home in NYC on November 15th. Survived by Joan Tisch, wife of 57 years, son Steven and his wife Jamie, daughter Laurie, and son Jonathan; grandchildren, Emily, Hilary, Carolyn, William, Charles, Henry, Elizabeth, Holden, and Zachary. Brother of the late Laurence Tisch and his wife, Billie, and uncle, relative, friend and colleague to many. Cofounder and Chairman of the Board of Loews Corporation and Chairman & Co-CEO of the New York Football Giants. Dedicated to his country, state and city, Bob generously gave both his time and resources, serving in countless leadership positions, including: Postmaster General of the United States, founding Director of Citymeals-onWheels, founder and Chairman of Take the Field, Chairman of the New York City Convention & Visitors Bureau, founding Chairman of the New York City Convention and Exhibition Center Corporation, Chairman of the NYC Partnership, Inc. and the NY Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chairman of NYC Public Private Initiatives, Inc., and trustee of New York University. Funeral services will be private for family. The family will be receiving condolences on Thursday, November 17, and Sunday, November 20, from 5 to 9 PM. A memorial service will be held on Friday, December 9, 2005, at 11 AM, at Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Preston Robert Tisch Brain Tumor Research Center at Duke University, Citymeals - on Wheels, or the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism, and Sports Management at New York University.
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. All the management and staff of Forest City Ratner Companies and Forest City Enterprises extend our deepest sympathy to the family of our friend and colleague in the world of real estate development and professional sports, Bob Tisch. He worked tirelessly on behalf of the people of this city - as head of the New York City Convention and Visitors Bureau and the New York City Partnership and as one of the founders of the Association for a Better New York. Bob Tisch was a generous and enthusiastic patron of the City's cultural and educational institutions from the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Central Park Zoo to the New York University schools of medicine and the arts. A visionary businessman, he brought his considerable marketing skills to bear in government - creating new marketing niches for the Post Office during his tenure as Postmaster General - and in the philanthropic world, as founder and president of Meals-on-Wheels. A native son of Brooklyn, his work and his life have benefited people across our nation and the world. We respected him, we admired him and we will miss him. Bruce C. Ratner, President & CEO, Forest City Ratner Companies Albert B. Ratner, Co-Chairman of the Board, Forest City Enterprises Charles A. Ratner, President & CEO, Forest City Enterprises
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Jerusalem Foundation deeply mourns the passing of Bob Tisch, a devoted friend and benefactor of Jerusalem. His generous spirit will forever live on in the projects he and his family helped to bring to life, especially the Tisch Family Zoological Gardens. This distinguished man will be greatly missed for his warmth, wisdom and compassion. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife, Joan, and the entire Tisch family. Teddy Kollek, Founding Chairman Dan Meridor, Int'l Chairman Ruth Cheshin, Int'l President Alan G. Hassenfeld, Chairman, USA Moshe Fogel, Exec. Dir., USA
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Mrs. Tisch, Jonathan, Steven and Laurie on the loss of their beloved husband and father. Bob was a good friend, colleague and mentor and a great and wise man whose leadership, insight, courage, integrity, generosity and great sense of humor will be sorely missed by us and by all who were blessed to know and interact with him. Vincent F. Pitta and family
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty is saddened by the loss of Bob Tisch, beloved uncle of our chairperson, Merryl Tisch. Bob, together with his unforgettable brother, Larry, a'h, paved a path in business and philanthropy that sets a standard for generations. Our condolences to Joan, Steve, Laurie, Jon and to the entire Tisch family. Joseph C. Shenker, President William E. Rapfogel, CEO
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. For 40 years, Bob's passion, optimism and generosity of spirit has brightened our lives and enriched all of us in his vast, extended New York Family. He leaves such a strong presence, even as we miss him dearly. Our thoughts are with Joan, Steve, Laurie and Jon. Jay Kriegel & Kathryn McAuliffe
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. I will always cherish and remember your leadership for the benefit of the City of New York. I will remember your philanthropic work and your friendship. You were always a true gentleman and a friend. My heart is with all the members of your family. You will be missed! George S. Kaufman
      