
        THOMPSON -- Bruce Gene. (1929-2005) Age 76, loving husband and father, went home to be with the Lord on November 24, 2005 at his home in Toledo after a battle with cancer. Mr. Thompson was born on September 4, 1929 in Mount Vernon, NY. He was the second son of Robert Sydney Thompson and Verda Irene Burt. Mr. Thompson is survived by his wife, Peggy (Rupp) Thompson, with whom he shared ten loving years of marriage; by his children Bruce R. of Houston, TX; Alison Calandra of Saline, MI; Linda Reinstadtler of New York City; Christopher R. of Toledo and stepdaughter Corrie (Calipetro) Jones of Lantana, FL. He is survived by seven grandchildren: Katie, James, Ellie, Robert, Caroline, Joshua and Grace. He was predeceased by his brother, Robert S. Thompson, Jr. of Fairborn, OH and by his former wife, LaWanda Mockbee Thompson of New York City. In 1947, Mr. Thompson graduated from Choate-Rosemary Hall secondary school in Wallingford, CT, where he excelled as a wrestler. He then entered Yale University in New Haven, CT and graduated in 1951 with a B.A. in economics. After Yale University, Mr.Thompson proceeded to the University of Virginia Law School in Charlottesville, where he served as the editor-in-chief of the prestigious Virginia Law Review. He received his law degree in 1954 with honors. Mr. Thompson's expansive business career began with his association with the Shearman & Sterling law firm in New York City in 1958. For several years his legal practice focused on domestic and international financing matters. In 1966, Mr. Thompson accepted a position with the United States State Department as an Investment Advisor to the Government of Pakistan. Based in Karachi, Mr. Thompson and his young family lived the experience of a lifetime in this culturally exotic, developing region of the world. In 1970, after returning stateside, Mr. Thompson founded Health Care REIT, Inc. along with Frederic D. Wolfe, to finance developers and operators of nursing homes, assisted-living facilities and related healthcare projects. Health Care REIT, Inc., based in Toledo, is now a billion-dollar company that is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol ?HCN?). From 1970 until 1996, Mr. Thompson served as Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Health Care REIT, Inc. Friends may call at the Coyle Funeral Home, 1770 South Reynolds Road Toledo, OH. on Monday, November 28th from 5pm to 8pm and on Tuesday, November 29th from 2pm to 8pm. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, November 30th at 11am at Cornerstone Church at 1520 Reynolds Road in Maumee, OH. where the family will receive friends beginning at 10am. Interment will be privately held at a later date. Mr. Thompson requested that any who wish to make a donation in his name please consider Cornerstone Church Children's Ministry. Please view and sign the guest registry at www.coylefuneralhome.com
      