
        MURPHY--Michael J., 65. Of Vero Beach, died November 13, 2005 at VNA Hospice House after a long and valiant battle with cancer. He was born April 4, 1940 in New York City to James and Mary Murphy, both of whom were born in Co. Roscommon, Ireland. He has been a resident of Vero Beach, FL. for three years. Until recently, he also had homes in New Jersey and South Carolina. Mr. Murphy was a 1961 graduate of Manhattan College. In 1968, he received his J.D. from Fordham University Law School, where he was a member of the Board of the Fordham Law Review. His law career began as a Law Clerk for the Hon. Thomas F. Murphy in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. In 1969, Mr. Murphy became associated with the New York law firm of Lord, Day & Lord. In 1976, he became a partner. After the dissolution of Lord, Day & Lord, he briefly joined Morgan, Lewis & Bockius as a partner. He then joined Healy & Baillie, LLP, as partner in 1995. He was admitted to practice before the following Bars: State of New York, United States District Courts for the Southern and Eastern Districts of New York, District of Connecticut, United States Court of Appeal for the Second, Fifth and Ninth Circuits, as well as the United States Supreme Court. Some of the many clients represented in his distinguished career as a commercial litigator include both foreign and domestic companies and the Government of Bermuda. Surviving are his wife of 42 years, Patricia Murphy of Vero Beach, FL; son, Michael P. Murphy of Hilton Head, SC; daughter and son-in-law, Patti and Mark Schuette, and their children, Cormac and Meaghan of Suwanee, GA; daughter, Kathleen Murphy of Hoboken, NJ; sisters, Anne Bogart of Belle Harbor, NY, Eileen Doyle of Morris Township, NJ, Margaret Murphy of Neponsit, NY, Theresa Sanders of Huntsville, AL and brother, Lt. Col., Ret. Patrick Murphy of Overland Park, KS. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the Michael and Patricia Murphy Commemorative Scholarship Fund, St. Thomas Aquinas College, Rt.340, Sparkill, NY 10976. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, ''The Funeral Chapel'', 1076 Madison Avenue, Thursday, 2-5 P.M. and 7-9 P.M. Mass of Christian Burial will be at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Friday, 10 A.M. Interment will be in Gate of Heaven Cemetery.
      