
        TISCH--Preston Robert. 79. Died peacefully at his home in NYC on November 15th. Survived by Joan Tisch, wife of 57 years, son Steven and his wife Jamie, daughter Laurie, and son Jonathan; grandchildren, Emily, Hilary, Carolyn, William, Charles, Henry, Elizabeth, Holden, and Zachary. Brother of the late Laurence Tisch and his wife, Billie, and uncle, relative, friend and colleague to many. Cofounder and Chairman of the Board of Loews Corporation and Chairman & Co-CEO of the New York Football Giants. Dedicated to his country, state and city, Bob generously gave both his time and resources, serving in countless leadership positions, including: Postmaster General of the United States, founding Director of Citymeals-onWheels, founder and Chairman of Take the Field, Chairman of the New York City Convention & Visitors Bureau, founding Chairman of the New York City Convention and Exhibition Center Corporation, Chairman of the NYC Partnership, Inc. and the NY Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chairman of NYC Public Private Initiatives, Inc., and trustee of New York University. Funeral services will be private for family. The family will be receiving condolences on Thursday, November 17, and Sunday, November 20, from 5 to 9 PM. A memorial service will be held on Friday, December 9, 2005, at 11 AM, at Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Preston Robert Tisch Brain Tumor Research Center at Duke University, Citymeals - on Wheels, or the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism, and Sports Management at New York University.
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The New York University mourns the loss of its great and beloved friend, Bob Tisch. Cochairman of the Loews Corporation, he was admired as a business leader for his integrity, instincts and business acumen. A native New Yorker smitten with his hometown, he had an extensive and distinguished history of philanthropy and service to New York and to his country: he served as chair of the Convention and Visitors Bureau for nearly two decades, as chair of the Citizens' Committee for the Democratic National Conventions in 1976 and 1980, as the city's Ambassador to Washington from 1990 to 1993, as a long-time member and one-time chair of the New York City Partnership, as the founding director of Citymeals-on-Wheels, and as co-founder and chair of Take the Field, a program to rebuild athletic facilities at New York's public schools. Bob's distinguished record of public service also included a two-year term as United States Postmaster General from 1986-1988. Our University was also a major beneficiary of his wisdom, time, energy, and generosity: he has served on NYU's Board of Trustees since 1982 and was responsible for signature gifts for some of our most prominent and dynamic programs, including NYU's renowned Tisch School of the Arts, Tisch Hospital and the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism, and Sports Management. In the mid 1980's Bob led a successful effort to raise more than $20 million to help launch the Tisch School's rise to prominence. Indeed, the University's successes over the past 25 years would not have been possible without the faith that Bob Tisch and the entire Tisch family had in our institution and our vision, which he devotedly help to shape. Our deepest sympathies go out to his wife Joan, children Steve, Laurie and Jonathan, and to the entire Tisch family, who should know that his name will have a special place of honor in our history, our memory, and our hearts. John Sexton, NYU President Martin Lipton, Chair, NYU Board of Trustees
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Board of Directors, officers and employees of Loews Corporation deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague Bob Tisch, the cofounder and Chairman of the Board of Loews. His wisdom, intellectual honesty and integrity were an inspiration to us all. Bob Tisch was one of the country's most respected business entrepreneurs, and one of the greatest civic leaders of the city that he loved-New York. He also made his mark in the sports world as co-owner of one of the premier franchises in American sport--the New York Giants football team, and as a valued contributor to the NFL. Bob Tisch, with his late brother Larry, built Loews Corporation into one of the largest diversified financial corporations in the United States. In addition to his many years of service to Loews, Bob had a remarkable career in public service. He had the unique ability to solve problems and build partnerships, not only for the Company, but also for the city and the nation. As Postmaster General of the United States from 1986 to 1988, he was credited with restoring confidence in the integrity of the postal service. Bob Tisch played a major role in New York's business and civic life, chairing countless organizations devoted to improving life for all New Yorkers. Perhaps his greatest legacy is the indelible impact he made on society through his philanthropic leadership that touched people across the country. Bob Tisch had an extraordinary generosity of spirit. He always made time for employees and co-workers, and also for the countless people who requested his help. He never forgot a promise. Bob will be remembered as a dedicated public servant, a great philanthropist, and a corporate leader who made every employee feel that they were part of the family. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Joan; his daughter, Laurie; and his sons, Jonathan and Steve; his nine grandchildren, as well as to the entire Tisch family.
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Board and staff of Citymealson-Wheels are heartbroken by the loss of Bob Tisch, our beloved founding Board member, long-time president, and uncommonly generous friend. He led this organization with humor, affection, charm and astute business skills for two decades. Bob's warmth and compassion made all of us at Citymeals feel like cherished members of his team. His dedication to our mission was contagious and brought us support from powerful New Yorkers who respected his judgment. There was no one he couldn't reach. With a single phone call, he opened doors for Citymeals across the country --universally, people were delighted to hear his voice at the other end of the phone. Bob frequently went on meal deliveries to visit the frail elderly homebound New Yorkers, those Citymeals supports through its lifeline of food and friendly visitors. He never failed to be deeply touched by these experiences because in his heart, as he often said, he knew that these invisible neighbors, now alone and isolated, were the very people who helped build the city he loved. Bob's instinctive embrace of Citymeals in its earliest years gave us instant credibility. During his time as president Citymeals - on Wheels flourished. The number of meals we deliver and serve increased from 20,000 to 2.3 million annually. Bob's death is deeply painful for every member of our Citymeals family. To those of us who were closest, he was a source of eclectic information and pointed memories, an amused and bemused Uncle who just happened to be a legend. We are grateful for the chance to have known him and we will never forget this inspiring man who gave so much to so many. Bob Tisch will forever be remembered as our own New York Giant. Gael Greene, Chairman Joseph M. Cohen, President Marcia Stein, Exec. Director
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sorrow the passing of Preston Robert ''Bob'' Tisch, a beloved leader and friend, whose lifetime of passionate philanthropic service included a deep commitment to cultural institutions, public education, civic life, and the Jewish community. Bob earned enormous respect as a business leader and humanitarian, particularly for his concern and affection for the children of New York. His beloved wife, Joan and their children, Steven, Jonathan, and Laurie, share that legacy of unwavering dedication, advocating and supporting the arts, AIDS research, and other human-service and educational endeavors. Joan's devoted leadership at the 92nd Street Y and Laurie's generous support of the JCC in Manhattan and DOROT strengthen our ability to care for those in need. The Tisch family's historic commitment to social concerns and Jewish life was built on the foundation set by Bob and his late brother, Larry. Their generosity and vision--continued through the service of their families--are marked by the spirit of klal Yisrael and profoundly impact our work in New York, in Israel, and around the globe. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Joan; to Steven, and his wife, Jamie; to Jonathan, and Laurie; to his sister-in-law, Billie, and her children: James, and his wife, Merryl; Andrew, and his wife, Ann; Daniel, and his wife, Bonnie; Thomas, and his wife, Alice; & to the entire Tisch family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Mary Schmidt Campbell and the Tisch School of the Arts community deeply mourn the death of Preston Robert Tisch - magnificent benefactor, NYU trustee, and a namesake of our School. He has left an indelible mark throughout the University and beyond, but we shall most remember the naming gift to the Tisch School of the Arts. His generosity, as well as that of his family, enabled NYU to establish the Tisch School as one of the country's pre-eminent art schools. His gift, through the School's graduates, has had an incalculable impact on American culture. Bob's continued personal interest in the School over the years, as well as his unflagging commitment, have been invaluable to the School's growth and development. He opened countless doors, was always available and always accessible. He made it a point to get to know the School's programs and its faculty. We are heartened to know his devotion to the School will continue through the involvement of his two sons, Steve and Jonathan, as Dean's Council members. We shall miss his friendship, vitality, warmth, and wisdom. We extend our profound sympathy to his beloved wife Joan, children Steve, Laurie, and Jonathan, and to the entire Tisch family. Mary Schmidt Campbell, Dean, NYU's Tisch School of the Arts
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Trustees, Faculty, and Staff of NYU Medical Center mourn the passing of Preston Robert Tisch, a member of the Board of Trustees of New York University since 1984, and the remaining patriarch of one of New York's most prominent families of philanthropic and civic leaders. His nephew Thomas has been a member of the Medical Center Board since 1988, and Thomas' wife, Alice, was appointed a Trustee in 1997. NYU Medical Center is one of many New York organizations that have benefited from the extraordinary generosity of the Tisch family. The Tisch name graces not only our hospital, but also the NYU School of the Arts and the NYU Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management. The entire Medical Center community extends its heartfelt condolences to his wife of 57 years, Joan, and their children, Steven, Laurie, and Jonathan, and to the entire Tisch family. Kenneth G. Langone, Chair Board of Trustees NYU Medical Center Robert M. Glickman, M.D. Dean & CEO NYU Medical Center Eric C. Rackow, M.D. President NYU Hospitals Center
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Bob Tisch and his family's personal leadership in the fight against AIDS and HIV can never be forgotten. Thousands more people received life-enhancing services and thousands more received life-saving education, all generously and quietly funded by the Tisch family through the Gay Men's Health Crisis (GMHC) and other organizations. As the epidemic grew, Bob and his family--Joan, Laurie, Steve and Jonathan-responded repeatedly and generously to the need to do more. Bob was tremendously supportive of Joan's many years of service as a GMHC Board member, as she brought her unique contacts and wisdom to the position. We cherish the opportunity to have worked with Bob, Joan and their family. We remember him with fondness and gratitude. He was one-of-akind. Our sincere condolences to Joan and the Tisch family. Jeff Soref, President, GMHC Board 1991-1994 Louis A. Bradbury, President, GMHC Board 1994-1997
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The 92nd Street Y Board of Directors and staff mourn with heavy hearts the passing of Bob Tisch, beloved husband of our Board member Joan Tisch. Bob and Joan are longtime devoted members of the 92nd Street Y family. Together they formed the Tisch Center for the Arts, which produces the renowned music and reading series at the Y. Bob's good will and deep humanity will be missed by all who were privileged to know him. Our prayers go out to Joan, their daughter Laurie, their two sons Steven and Jonathan and their grandchildren as well as the rest of the Tisch family. May the Tisch family celebrate this remarkable man's life and be comforted by the memory of all that Bob and his family did to enrich the world. Bob will be dearly missed by the community and by his many friends, colleagues and admirers. As his life was a blessing so may his memory be. With great admiration and respect, Michael Goldstein, President Matthew Bronfman, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The students, faculty, staff and advisory board of NYU's Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management sadly acknowledges the passing of our namesake, Preston Robert Tisch. Mr. Tisch was instrumental in the development of the Tisch Center whose purpose is to educate the future leaders of the hospitality, sports and tourism industries. The Tisch Center will proudly continue to integrate his legacy of business accomplishments and community service throughout our programs of study. We offer our deepest sympathy to his wife Joan, his children Jonathan, the Chair of the NYU International Hospitality Industry Investment Conference, Steven, and Laurie. Dr. Bjorn Hanson, Advisory Board Chairman Dr. Lalia Rach, Associate Dean and HVS International Chair Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management School of Continuing and Professional Studies New York University
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with great sorrow the passing of Bob Tisch, beloved husband of Joan Tisch. Bob's welcoming manner, keen business sense, and insights and generosity, not only to MoMA but also to Take the Field, and other organizations that contribute so much to the fabric of New York City, are an inspiration to us all. We will miss him deeply and extend our sympathies to Joan, his wife and our Trustee, to his children Steve, Laurie and Jonathan, and to their families. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Robert B. Menschel, Chairman Marie-Josee Kravis, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, New York
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Bob Tisch, a longtime benefactor and friend, so notable for his generosity to the great institutions of New York City, for his public--spiritedness, and for his personal warmth and charm. The generous support provided by him and by his family for the creation of the magnificent suite of special exhibition galleries at the Metropolitan known as The Tisch Galleries has made possible the display of many of the Museum's most expansive and ambitious exhibitions in recent years, from the 1988 Degas retrospective through the current exhibition ''Prague, The Crown of Bohemia.'' We extend to his entire family our most heartfelt condolences. James R. Houghton, Chairman Philippe de Montebello, Director Emily K. Rafferty, President
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Bob was New York's Most Valuable Player. Philanthropic, civic-minded, politically involved, family oriented, his unique qualities inspired and motivated us all. His decency, wit, friendship and common humanity were extraordinary. For us Bob was our most valued, trusted and loved friend. He was larger than life and for over forty years his friendship and family involvement were integral to our lives. He was a mainstay to us, our children and all of his close friends. He was always available to listen, to help, to offer guidance or just ''take care of it.'' Family occasions will not be the same anymore. Bob was fortunate to be surrounded by a large and devoted family who adored him. His friends felt the same way. Our deepest sympathy to Joan and the entire Tisch family. Linda and Sandy
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The community and friends of Teachers College, Columbia University, are saddened by the passing of Preston Robert Tisch, father of our longtime Trustee and colleague, Laurie Tisch, Board Chair of our Campaign for Educational Equity. Throughout his career, Bob Tisch was a consummate philanthropist who was deeply committed to education, social justice, the arts, and the cultural and intellectual life of New York City. In a time when those qualities are increasingly rare, his loss will be keenly felt--but his legacy lives on through his lifetime of good works and a family that mirrors his values and commitment. Arthur Levine, President John C. Hyland, William D. Rueckert, Co-Chairs, Board of Trustees Teachers College Columbia University
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Benenson Capital Partners mourns the loss of our distinguished colleague, partner and friend, Bob Tisch. We will miss his insight, wisdom and personal perspective. We were lucky to have over 50 years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a man who was greatly dedicated to his family, business, philanthropy and the New York Giants. All the citizens of New York and beyond will miss his generosity and support. Those of us who know how special he was share the sense of loss with his family, friends and associates. Our deepest sympathy to Joan, Steven, Jon, Laurie and the entire Tisch family. Lawrence Benenson Bill Benenson Fred Benenson Richard Kessler Jim Stifel
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. It is with deep sadness that the Board and Staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Preston Robert Tisch, a longtime supporter of the arts in New York City. His daughter, Laurie M. Tisch, a dedicated and valued member of Lincoln Center's Board of Directors, continues the tradition of public philanthropy and support for the performing arts established by Mr. Tisch. On behalf of our Trustees and Staff, we extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Frank A. Bennack, Jr., Chairman Reynold Levy, President Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc.
        $(6$)TISCH--Bob. The Board and the Staff of the Children's Museum of Manhattan mourns the lost of Bob Tisch, one of New York's greatest stars. We offer our deepest condolences to Bob's daughter Laurie, former Chair of the Museum and current honorary Chair, to Joan, Jon, Steve and the entire Tisch family. We will always remember Bob's tireless and visionary dedication to New York and the joy with which he helped people in need. Mark Pearlman, Chair, Board of Directors Marsha Warner, Board Member Andrew Ackerman, Executive Director Children's Musuem of Manhattan
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Board of Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art mourns the passing of Preston Robert Tisch, beloved father of our Trustee, Laurie Tisch. Throughout his life, Bob enriched the lives of so many people. He will always be fondly remembered for his astute business sense, exemplary leadership and most of all for his philanthropy and kindness. He will be sorely missed by all of us. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Joan, his children Steve, Jon and Laurie, and the entire Tisch family. Leonard A. Lauder, Chairman Robert J. Hurst, President Adam D. Weinberg, Director
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Board of Directors and staff of NYC & Company join me in extending our heartfelt sympathy to our Chairman, Jon Tisch, and to his entire family on the loss of his father. Bob Tisch was one of the great leaders who shaped our city over the last 50 years, as well as supportive and steadfast Chairman for 19 years of NYC & Company, formerly the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau. His life and good works are an inspiration to all of us and his memory is a blessing. Cristyne L. Nicholas President and CEO NYC & Company
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are profoundly saddened by the death of our friend, Bob Tisch. Bob's zest for life and social responsibility are renowned; his love of wildlife and his family's pride in New York will be recognized by future generations as they experience the Tisch Children's Zoo in Central Park. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Joan, and the entire Tisch family. David T. Schiff, Chairman Board of Trustees Steven E. Sanderson, President and CEO
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Partnership for New York City mourns the loss of its ''Premiere Partner'' and former Chairman, Preston Robert ''Bob'' Tisch. He was admired on many counts--as one of New York's most successful entrepreneurs, as the head of a wonderful family, and as an exceptionally generous philanthropist. Bob will be remembered as a business and civic leader with a unique capacity to bring New Yorkers from all boroughs and backgrounds together for the good of the city.
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Preston Robert Tisch, an outstanding philanthropist and civic leader. His personal generosity and the generosity of the entire Tisch family to health care in our community has been extraordinary and will long be remembered. We extend our sincere sympathy to all the members of the Tisch family. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., President and CEO
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Board and staff of F.E.G.S. mourn the passing of Preston Robert Tisch, a philanthropic community leader. The Tisch family have helped to improve the lives of countless thousands of individuals here in New York and around the world. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the family of this extraordinary leader. Joseph Stein, Jr., Chair Barry K. Fingerhut, President Alfred P. Miller, Chief Executive Officer
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The governors, members and staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Bob Tisch, one of our industry's and New York's most generous civic and charitable philanthropists. We extend our condolences to his wife Joan, his children Jonathan, Steven and Laurie and the entire Tisch family. John E. Zuccotti, Chairperson Steve Spinola, President
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The directors, staff, volunteers, and clients of Gay Men's Health Crisis send our condolences and love to Joan Tisch and the entire Tisch family in gratitude for their extraordinary generosity and personal commitment to people living with HIV and AIDS. Your name graces our building. Your spirit guides our work. And your family is in our hearts. Ana Oliveira, Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston R. (Bob). My friend for all these many years. Always there for me, my husband, Arthur, and my children, Toni and Mark whenever we had need of you. Never too busy to take our phone calls or help with our questions. No words can express how much I miss you. My memories are so very special and my life is made better for having had you as my friend. Carol
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Board of Directors and staff of The Center for Arts Education mourn the loss of Preston Robert Tisch. We send our deepest condolences to Laurie M. Tisch, our beloved and dedicated Chair, and to the entire Tisch family. Bob Tisch was a great New Yorker and a true Giant who will be sorely missed. The Board of Directors Richard Kessler, Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish HeritageA Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of Preston Robert Tisch, our dear friend and overseer. We extend heartfelt condolences to Joan, Steven, Jonathan, and Laurie. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chair David G. Marwell, Director
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Bob, you fought a valiant battle. We will always cherish the years of friendship shared with a true gentleman, philanthropist and friend. Our hearts are with Joan, Laurie, Jon, Steve and Jamie and all of the family. Rest in peace, our friend. You will be sorely missed. Laura and John Pomerantz
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. His leadership, which contributed greatly to New York City's preeminence, his engaging smile, and his furtherance of education and arts goals, endeared him to us all. Our heartfelt condolences to Joan, Laurie, Jonathan, Steve and the entire Tisch family. The Town Hall Theater Marvin Leffler, President
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Bob, a great humanitarian, a great personal friend and a great friend to New York City. Loved and admired by all. Our condolences to Joan, Steven, Jon, Laurie and all of the grandchildren. Irving Schneider Lynn Schneider Mindy Schneider Lesser & families
        $(6$)TISCH--Robert. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its honored and respected member Robert Tisch. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, President
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Association for a Better New York mourns the loss of one of our co-founders, a great New Yorker, Bob Tisch. His leadership and dedication to our City will be greatly missed. Bob was a true New York ''Giant.'' William C. Rudin, Chairman
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. The Rudin family sends our deepest sympathies to the entire Tisch family. Our thoughts and prayers are with all of you during this difficult time. Lew will make sure to save Bob a seat at the ''ultimate power breakfast.''
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. We are deeply saddened by the loss ofour friend, Bob Tisch, and would like to express our deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences to Joan, Steven, Jon and Laurie and the entire Tisch family. Richard & Stephanie Kessler
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. New York has lost a great man and I have lost a great friend. Bob, I will miss you dearly. With deepest condolences to Joan, Jon, Steve, Laurie, Donald J. Trump
        $(6$)TISCH--Bob. We remember a man who remembered everyone. Condolences to Jon Tisch and the entire family. All of Us at Linden Alschuler & Kaplan
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. If everyone who had a bad word to say about Bob were to speak in unison--there would be silence in the world. Sidney Zion
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. A true ''giant.'' He will be greatly missed. Our sympathy and love to his entire family. Betty and John
        $(6$)TISCH--Preston Robert. Nico Salon extends deepest sympathy to the Tisch family. Nick Mossa
      