
        VELISKAKIS--Konstantin P. (aka Kostas P. Velis, M.D.) left us on November 14, 2005 at his home in New York City, of Hellenic ethnic descent, father Dr. Protesilaos Veliskakis, mother Athina of Athens, Greece. He graduated from the American University of Beirut Medical School in 1948, completed surgical and orthopaedic residencies at the Royal College of Surgeons, London, England, Lambeth Hospital, Southend General Hospital, Derbyshire Royal Infirmary, Derbyshire and Hospital for Crippled Children. Gibney Scoliosis Fellowship at the Hospital for Special Surgery working with John R. Cobb, M.D. for seven years. Joined the staff of the Hospital for Special Surgery, The New York Presbyterian Hospital, Cornell Medical Center in 1957. Started the Scoliosis Service at Montefiore Hospital and Medical Center in 1971. Certified by the American Board of Orthopaedic Surgery and American Board of Spine Surgeons. He was a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons, Scoliosis Research Society, North Americana Spine Society, International Hippocratic Foundation of Kos, Semmelweiss Society, Hellenic Medical Society, Medical Society of the State and County of NY, American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society. Published only in peer-reviewed journals, presented several scientific exhibits at the Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, helped thousands of suffering patients and mentored large numbers of medical students, residents and Fellows. He was skilled and innovative as a surgeon, a person with high intellect, free uninhibited thinking, superior wit, total dedication to spinal sciences, and having great concern and compassion for his patients. He left us with great memories for which we feel fortunate to have been with him and for which we have all loved him profoundly. He shall be remembered forever in the hearts of the only woman he loved, his wife, Barbara, his loving children Danae, Neobe and Kosta, his grieving sisters Tina and Mary the late Ellie and Demetrious, grandchildren James, Natahaniel, Breck and Nadja. He will be greatly missed by his colleagues, other health care persons and multiple friends. He wants us to know that he completed a wonderful biological se quence in this planet and is content now to exit. Kostas was also a painter and sculptor. He left all his work to his wife, Barbara. Funeral services will be held on November 18th, 2005 at John Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Avenue @ 70th Street between 2:00 PM and 5:00 PM. Flowers will be appreciated or donations to the American University of Beirut Medical School or the Central Park Conservancy.
        $(6$)VELIS--Kostas P., M.D. I mourn the loss of my longtime teacher, mentor, colleague and friend. As a young resident at the Hospital for Special Surgery in 1976, you became my teacher and we went on to enjoy almost 30 years of friendship. I will miss your wise counsel, your integrity and your loyal support throughout the years. Rest in peace, my good friend. Jacob D. Rozbruch, M.D.
      