
        McNULTY--John P., 52. Of Short Hills, N.J., Naples, FL, and Aspen, CO, a senior director at Goldman Sachs, passed away suddenly on Wednesday, November 16 in Naples. The son of Nora Sweeney McNulty and Charles McNulty, John was born on October 31, 1952, in Philadelphia, PA. After earning his B.S. from St. Joseph's University in 1974 and his M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania Wharton School of Business in 1979, John went on to a distinguished 22-year career at Goldman Sachs. Under his leadership, the firm built a global investment management business that became a significant and integral part of the firm. John became a partner in 1990 and a managing director in 1996. He retired in June of 2001, but continued to serve as a Senior Director at the firm. At the time of his retirement, John was the head of the Investment Management Division and a member of the firm's Management Committee. Outside of Goldman Sachs, John was a strong advocate for education and the arts. He served on the Board of Trustees at the University of Pennsylvania Wharton School of Business, chaired St. Joseph's University's Finance Committee and was an advisory director at the Metropolitan Opera. He also was a patron of St. Joseph's School in Chinatown. In addition, John served as a trustee of The Aspen Institute and on the board of the Carnival Corporation & PLC. John is survived by his wife, Anne, and their three children, John, Brynne and Kevin, his mother and his siblings, Noreen Tully, Charles McNulty, Kevin McNulty and Mary Grady. There will be a viewing Monday, November 21, 2005, from 9-11AM at the Cathedral of Sts. Peter and Paul, 18th Street and The Benjamin Franklin Parkway, Philadelphia. A funeral mass will follow at 11:00AM at the same location. Those interested in making memorial contributions may forward them to: The John P. McNulty Scholarship Fund for Excellence in Science and Math, 1300 3rd Street South, Naples, FL 34102.
        $(6$)McNULTY--John. The Board of Directors, the faculty and the staff of the NYU Child Study Center mourn the death of our board member and friend John McNulty. John was a brilliant and creative businessman and philanthropist, a devoted and proud father to John, Brynne and Kevin, and a loving and dedicated partner to his wife Anne. We share the sorrow of his wonderful family. Brooke Garber Neidich Chair Harold S. Koplewicz, M.D. Director
        $(6$)McNULTY--John. We will miss your friendship, loyalty and the laughter we have shared over the years. You have been an inspiration to us; we will never forget the things you have taught us or the memories we have created. Our nights will never be the same without your evening calls. All our love to Anne, Johnny, Brynne and Kevin. We love you. Eric Lane and Sarah Dillon
        $(6$)McNULTY--John. There are partners and then there was John. There are philanthropists and then there was John. There are mentors and then there was John. There are good friends and then there is especially John. Lyn and George Barbara and Eric
        $(6$)McNULTY--John. The Board of Directors and staff of the Thyroid, Head and Neck Cancer Foundation mourn the death of John P. McNulty. We wish to extend sincere sympathies to his entire family. Donald Levy, Board Pres. Dr. Mark Urken, Medical Dir. Evelyn Rossetti, Exec. Dir.
      