
        MENDELSON--Michael. Age 63, died on Friday, November 4, 2005, in his Manhattan home after a year long struggle with cancer. He is survived by his wife, Mimi, and three children, Gideon, Shara and Lauren; his aunt, Dr. Sonia Sprung; his cousins, Edie Nadler and Jonathan Nadler, and their children, Lisa and Jessica Nadler. He was a man blessed with a vision of the meaningful life, the will to create it, the wisdom to enjoy it, and, above all, the generosity to share it with others. He will live on in the hearts of his adoring family and in the memories of his countless friends. Services to be held, Tuesday, November 8, at 10 AM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.
        $(6$)MENDELSON--Michael. On November 4, 2005. To our beloved Michael, our mentor, brother, uncle, cousin, partner, your endless love and guidance leads us through our lives. You make every moment count. You are with us always. Edie, Jonathan, Lisa and Jessica
        $(6$)MENDELSON--Michael. YAI/ National Institute for People with Disabilities mourns the passing of our longtime friend, Michael Mendelson. Michael was a passionate and effective pioneer in advocating for the rights of people with developmental disabilities. He played a pivotal role in creating the YAI/ NIPD Central Park Challenge, one of the largest and most prestigious public awareness and community inclusion events of its kind. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife Mimi and to the entire family. Dr. Philip H. Levy, Pres. Dr. Joel M. Levy, CEO YAI/National Institue for People with Disabilities
        $(6$)MENDELSON--Michael. The East Hampton Tennis Club sadly records the passing of Michael Mendelson. He was not only one of our best players, but one of our best people. We will not easily forget his humor and his bravery, and send our heartfelt condolences to Mimi, Gideon, Shara and Lauren. Norbert Weissberg, President
        $(6$)MENDELSON--Michael. The Board of Directors and the staff at 850 Park Avenue are deeply saddened by the passing of its director and friend, Michael Mendelson. We extend our sympathy to Mimi and the Mendelson family. Board of Directors, 850 Park Avenue Corp., New York, NY 10021
      