
        HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Aged 70, November 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Jo Ann Malkin Horowitz, loving father of Jay (Suzanne) and Stephen (Dorsey), dear stepfather of Harold Malkin (Jennifer) and Jill Addeo (Geoffrey) and adored grandfather Max, Ben, Leo, Ryan and Olivia. Born February 13, 1935, graduated Barnard School For Boys and Brown University '56. Partner in specialist firm of Phelan, Silver until 1982. Past Chairman of New York Futures Exchange and an Executive Vice-President of The New York Stock Exchange. Retired in 1995, and became a full time volunteer on the pediatric floor of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center where he has spent the past ten years. Former President of Ramapo Anchorage Camp, ex board member of Downtown Hospital and active in Junior Achievement and Principal for a Day. During his financial career, Lew was known for his electric neckties and during his volunteer career, for his collection of fabulous hats. Lew brought smiles and good humor everywhere he went. He is loved by so many and will be deeply missed by all whose lives he touched. Donations in his memory may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) for the Lewis Horowitz Pediatric Recreation Fund, 1275 York Ave., NY, NY 10021 attention Nina J. Pickett. Memorial service, Wednesday, November 30, at 4PM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St.
        HOROWITZ--Lewis J. Jay Horowitz and Stephen Horowitz and their families mourn the loss of their loving father, Lewis. We will be receiving family and friends on Thursday evening, December 1, from 6 pm to 9 pm, at the Harmonie Club, 4 East 60th St. With love, Suzanne and Jay, Stephen, Dorsey and Olivia
        HOROWITZ--Lewis J. The Officers and Board of Directors of Ramapo for Children mourn the passing of their beloved member, past President, and dear friend, Lewis Horowitz, who worked assiduously to improve the health and spirit of needy children. Susan K. Heller, President Bernie Kosberg, Exec. Dir.
        HOROWITZ--Lewis. To the man of 1,001 hats with a song always in his heart. Here's to ten glorious years you gave to making kids laugh. Your work inspired, motivated, and entertained all of us who had the privilege of volunteering alongside you. Joseph Cosgriff
      