
        PIFER--Alan. We deeply mourn the loss of Alan Pifer, past president of Carnegie Corporation of New York, who passed away on October 31 at the age of 84. Throughout Pifer's career, his focus was on social justice and the rights of disadvantaged groups, including women. In particular, beginning in the 1970s, Pifer was instrumental in reinstituting Carnegie Corporation's involvement in South Africa after a long hiatus and led the foundation in supporting the formation of public interest law projects in South Africa that challenged apartheid policies. These organizations continue to have a lasting impact on South African society. Pifer formally assumed the Corporation presidency in 1967, succeeding John W. Gardner who left to become HEW Secretary. Under Pifer's leadership, the Corporation renewed its commitment to early childhood education, supporting research and applications of experimental and demonstration programs that later provided evidence of the positive long-term effects of high-quality early education, particularly for disadvantaged students. Carnegie Corporation also promoted educational children's television, which launched Sesame Street. Other landmarks achieved under Pifer's leadership include recommendations from the Carnegie Commission on Educational Television, which were adopted in the Public Broadcasting Act of 1968. After retiring from Carnegie Corporation in 1982, Pifer continued his public service by remaining focused on social inequality, heading the Aging Society Project that studied the social consequences that might develop as America's aging population reached retirement age. Pifer also established the University of Cape Town Fund, which raised funds in the United States to support black students at the South African university and promote activities to aid the advancement and welfare of blacks. Many other organizations and governmental agencies also benefited from his guidance and his wisdom. Pifer was a leader in philanthropy and the nonprofit world, and his legacy will always be insitutional transparency, accountability and the highest ethical standards. Helene Kaplan, Chair, and the Carnegie Corporation of New York Board of Trustees Vartan Gregorian, President, and the staff of Carnegie Corporation of New York Carnegie Corporation of New York Board of Trustees Emeritus
      