
        HENDERSON -- Skitch. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved friend, the renowned pianist and conductor Skitch Henderson, on November 1, 2005 in New Milford, Connecticut at the age of 87. Mr. Henderson was a deeply valued member of our Steinway Artist family for nearly sixty years. The Founder and Music Director of The New York Pops, Skitch Henderson was one of the most recognized musical personalities in America. His career included appearances with orchestras throughout the world, and his collaboration with such artists as Judy Garland, Frank Sinatra, and Bing Crosby was legendary. He became known to millions throughout America as music director at NBC Television, where he conducted the Tonight show and the Today show orchestras, introducing the use of classical music in variety programming. Mr. Henderson was a featured artist in Steinway & Sons' Centennial concert at Carnegie Hall in 1953, and his devotion to the Steinway piano and to our firm knew no bounds. Though our lives have been forever enriched by his music, his ebullient spirit will be sorely missed. To Ruth and to his children and grandchildren, we extend our love and our heartfelt condolences. -Bruce A. Stevens, President -Peter B. Goodrich, V.P. Worldwide Concert and Artist Activities
        HENDERSON--Skitch. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of Thirteen/WNET New York, we wish to express our deep sadness over the loss of America's beloved Music Man, Skitch Henderson. A devoted friend of Thirteen for many years, Skitch inspired countless others to take up the cause of public television. His on-air appearances were a big hit with staff and viewers alike, and he always had an interesting or amusing story to share as he elicited support for Thirteen. Skitch devoted his life to music and, in doing so, put a song in the heart and a smile on the face of everyone he met. He was a gracious, funny, engaging man, who encouraged us all to strive for the absolute best in everything we did. We are grateful to have had him among us and we will miss him a great deal. Our sincere condolences are with his loving family. Steven Rattner Chairman, Educational Broadcasting Corporation William F. Baker President, Educational Broadcasting Corporation
        HENDERSON -- Skitch. The Lauri Strauss Leukemia Foundation, its Board and all of its supporters, mourn with unspeakable sorrow the death of its beloved generous compassionate friend, Skitch Henderson. For fifteen consecutive years, Skitch contributed his immense talent and presence to our cause at our Benefit Concerts at Carnegie Hall. We will dedicate this year's Benefit on November 21, 2005 to his memory and in his honor. He was our dear friend who taught us how to proceed in both life and music. To say he will be missed is the ultimate understatement. We love you Skitch, and we always will. Evelyn and Herb Strauss The Board of The Lauri Strauss Leukemia Foundation
        HENDERSON--Skitch. You were a dear friend and we loved you for what you accomplished. We'll miss you and extend our deepest sympathy to the family. Jean and Ralph Baruch
      