
        WHITE--Jeff. President of JWT Atlanta, died Saturday, November 5, while on a business trip to Washington to attend the Annual Marines Corps Birthday Ball. The U.S. Marines played a key role in Jeff's life. He served during the Viet Nam War, from 196871, rising to the rank of Captain. But his active service with the Marines continued, in effect, all his life. As the senior JWT executive supervising the Marine Corps advertising account, one of JWT's longest tenured, Jeff helped lead the creation of some of the most memorable and effective recruitment advertising programs in advertising history. ''The Few,the Proud, the Marines'' campaigns have won more awards for effectiveness than any other for military recruitment. Innovative use of public service announcements, internet advertising, and recruitment efforts aimed at women and minority officer candidates broke new ground under his direction. A native of Chicago and graduate of University of Illinois, Jeff White joined JWT in Chicago in 1968, and shortly went on leave for active duty in Viet Nam. Returning to JWT in 1971, he worked on the Gillette Safety Razor account, and later supervised the Northwestern Mutual Life insurance account. In the late 70's JWT recruited him to move to Washington, D.C. to lead the Marine Corps account, and he later ran that office. Subsequently, the Washington, D.C. office merged with the Atlanta office, and Jeff was selected to run that office. Other clients he served include Orkin, Norfolk Southern, FEMA, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Bridgestone Golf. Friends observed that Jeff White broke a lot of ''rules'' about advertising people. But he lived the basic truths that mattered. He shied away from spot lights. He believed credit belonged to the team, not to him. Never a fashion plate, the only suit that mattered was the Marine's dress blues. Tough, quiet, thoughtful--Jeff believed actions spoke louder than boastful claims. Jeff's sanctuary was his home, which he shared with his wife, Sue, their son Brad, and three bull dogs. He planned to retire next year to a new home being completed in South Carolina. He would have turned 60 on December 4. He is survived by his twin brother, Randy. Jeff White made a difference to his country. He made a difference to his Company. He made a difference to his friends. And he made all the difference to his family. We will miss him enormously. Visitation for Mr. White will be 6:00-8:00 P.M. Thursday evening, November 11, at Patterson Funeral Home, Oglethorpe Hill, 4550 Peachtree Road, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30319, Phone: 404-261-3510. A Marine Corps Honor Guard will be in attendance. In lieu of flowers, the family has requested donations of toys or money to the Toys for Tots program sponsored by the Marine Corps Reserves. Bob Jeffrey, Lew Trencher, Rob Quish, and the JWT Worldwide Team
      