
        HENDERSON -- Skitch. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the passing of its beloved friend, the renowned pianist and conductor Skitch Henderson, on November 1, 2005 in New Milford, Connecticut at the age of 87. Mr. Henderson was a deeply valued member of our Steinway Artist family for nearly sixty years. The Founder and Music Director of The New York Pops, Skitch Henderson was one of the most recognized musical personalities in America. His career included appearances with orchestras throughout the world, and his collaboration with such artists as Judy Garland, Frank Sinatra, and Bing Crosby was legendary. He became known to millions throughout America as music director at NBC Television, where he conducted the Tonight show and the Today show orchestras, introducing the use of classical music in variety programming. Mr. Henderson was a featured artist in Steinway & Sons' Centennial concert at Carnegie Hall in 1953, and his devotion to the Steinway piano and to our firm knew no bounds. Though our lives have been forever enriched by his music, his ebullient spirit will be sorely missed. To Ruth and to his children and grandchildren, we extend our love and our heartfelt condolences. -Bruce A. Stevens, President -Peter B. Goodrich, V.P. Worldwide Concert and Artist Activities
        HENDERSON -- Skitch. The Board of Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the loss of our dear friend Skitch Henderson. Skitch was a beloved figure at Carnegie Hall. He was also a New York institution and a cherished national treasure who single-handedly built the New York Pops into one of the best loved ensembles of our day. Charming, witty and always the consummate artist, Skitch had a wonderful way of connecting with musicians and audiences, and Carnegie Hall is delighted to have been home to him and to the Pops for more than twenty years. We at Carnegie Hall will miss him deeply, and we send our heartfelt condolences to his wife Ruth, the Henderson family and his many friends. Sanford I. Weill, Chairman of the Board Clive Gillinson, Executive and Artistic Director
        HENDERSON--Skitch. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member, Skitch Henderson. A member of the Club for the last 20 years he helped us preserve the rich theatrical roots of the Friars Club. Skitch was a musical genius with enormous talent who shared a legacy of commitment to the very best. Freddie Roman, Dean Sally Jessy Raphael, Prior Fred C. Klein, Treasurer Stu Cantor, Scribe Jean Pierre Trebot, Exec. Dir.
        HENDERSON--Skitch. The Officers and Directors of the Friars Foundation deeply mourn the loss of Skitch Henderson, recipient of the 2005 Applause Award. As the founder of the New York Pops, and an icon of American popular music, Skitch was a passionate leader in preserving the performing arts. We are grateful for honoring his legacy. Leo Greenland Chairman of the Board Cy Leslie, President
        HENDERSON--Skitch. The InterSchool Orchestras of New York is saddened by the loss of Skitch Henderson, our longtime board member. His wisdom and guidance have been invaluable, and his devotion to young people and music will be deeply missed. Annabelle Prager, Founder Ann McKinney, Jonathan Strasser, Exec. & Music Dirs.
      