
        WEISBERG--Fred. In his 66th year. Beloved husband of Janice. Devoted father of Lisa and Dale Rafferty, Julie and Cantor Cary Schwartz and Mindy Weisberg. Loving grandfather of Gabi, Luke, Ayla and Erica. Dear brother of Joan Dickson. Service 12 noon today at ''Schwartz Brothers - Jeffer Memorial Chapels'' Queens Blvd at 76 Road, Forest Hills, NY. In lieu of flowers contributions to the Leukemia - Lymphoma Society, 475 Park Ave So, NYC, NY 10016 would be appreciated. Donating of blood and platelets in Fred's memory would be a fitting tribute. $(6$)WEISBERG--Fred. The world has lost a great man. My dear friend, Fred Weisberg, passed away on Monday. Freddy was the kind of guy who offered you unconditional support mentally, emotionally and intellectually everyday. He was the most reliable person in my life. Day or night, good times or bad, Freddy was always there for me. He was a fun-hearted person who never showed anyone that he had concerns of his own. He was bubbly and always had a smile on his face. He offered me the most sage advice. His optimism and love of life which helped get him through trying times rubbed off on me too. Fred always knew how to get me through a difficult time. He was truly one-of-a-kind. His friendship will be missed beyond words. His spirit and my love for him will be with me always. You should know, Fred, that there are so many people who will support your family as you supported your friends for so many years. Thank you, Fred. My heart goes out to Janice, Joanie, Lisa, Mindy, Julie and their families. Arthur Pergament $(6$)WEISBERG--Fred. All of us at Weisberg, Mole, Krantz & Goldfarb wish to express our deepest sympathies to the Weisberg family on the passing of our dear friend, Fred Weisberg. Throughout the years, Fred's friendships and relationships provided the bedrock that this firm has used as its foundation. Fred's compassion, guidance and wisdom were a beacon for all of us that were fortunate to have been touched by his life. His character and dignity earned him respect and loyalty on a level not often attained in life. His devotion to his family and friends was uncompromised and the love he displayed and shared was returned to him many times over by all of us who had the privilege of his friendship and companionship over the years. We perceive Fred's life to be summed up in one simple word--Love; Love for the Deal, Love for Life, Love for Friends and most importantly, Love for Family. He will be deeply missed and forever remembered. $(6$)WEISBERG--Fred. The Employees of Pergament Advisors are deeply saddened by the passing of our good friend and company mentor, Fred Weisberg. Fred was with us from the beginning to provide us with his sound advice, to guide us through our ups and downs, and set us on the path to success. Fred had a wonderful sense of humor and an infectious laugh. For those of us who knew him well, Fred knew how to make good come from any adverse situation: first, with good humor and then with exceptional business advice. We will miss him tremendously, but will carry on with all the valuable lessons about life and business that we learned from him. Arthur and the Pergs Team $(6$)WEISBERG--Fred. My deepest sympathies to Janice, Lisa, Julie, Mindy and the entire Weisberg family on the passing of Fred Weisberg. Fred's courage and wisdom was an inspiration and I will deeply miss his sense of humor and calming presence. My deepest regret is not having met Fred until somewhat late in life. I always admired his passion for living and the love he had for his family and friends. He enriched the lives of all those he touched and I'm forever grateful for the small portion of his life he graciously shared with me. Freddy, rest well and peaceful. Love, your Partner and Friend, Rich Mole $(6$)WEISBERG--Fred. My cherished friend of 30 years. Thank you for sharing all your guidance, wisdom, and patience. You defined friendship and trust. I always knew that I could count on you whenever I needed your help. Your love for your family was exemplary. Your constant optimism was refreshing. You were unselfish and giving in every way. I will miss your advice and friendship. My Deepest sympathies to Janice, Lisa, Julie and Mindy. Bruce Pergament $(6$)WEISBERG--Fred. Fred, thank you for being our friend. How we loved you. The wonderful advice you always gave. You had a genuine understanding of family values. We will miss your smile and laughter. Our hearts goes out to Janice, the girls and all of the immediate family. Lois and Bob Pergament and Family $(6$)WEISBERG--Fred. We will never forget your wisdom and kindness. Your strength and positive attitude were always inspiring. We have lost a really special friend! Our best to Janice and the entire Weisberg family. Love, Lori and Howard Dorman Debra and Andrew Levine $(6$)WEISBERG--Fred C. Treasured friend, colleague, and mentor. We will forever miss you. Heartfelt condolences to his wife Janice, daughters Julie, Lisa, Mindy, sister Joan and families. Marlene and Eric Woldenberg $(6$)WEISBERG--Fred. Our beloved friend, in our hearts forever. You were the best of the best. Love, the Welz & Bader Families
      