
        EISENSTEIN--Joan Buehler. An extraordinary woman of charm, grace and style died on November 8, 2005 after a long illness. For 50 years the treasured wife of Howard Eisenstein, the beloved mother of James and Susan, the cherished grandmother of Jenny, Katie and James Eisenstein and Nicole and Danielle Kerz. She is lovingly remembered by her daughter-in-law Beth Amaturo Eisenstein and son-in-law Jonathan Kerz. Born in Brooklyn in 1931, she graduated from Packer Collegiate Institute, Wells College and the Columbia School of Social Work. Her devotion to traditional family values was inspirational. Her contagious laughter and joyous optimism will not be forgotten-as she lived Thoreau's words: ''to affect the quality of a day...that is the highest of the arts.'' She was an active and passionate member of the Alumni Board of Packer Collegiate Institute and the Board of Trustees of Daytop. Services will take place in Manhattan Thursday, November 10, 11:30 AM, Frank E. Campbell, Madison Avenue at 81st St. In lieu of flowers, please contribute to: Packer, 170 Joralemon St., Brooklyn, NY 11201 or Daytop, 54 West 40 St., NYC 10018. $(6$)EISENSTEIN--Joan B. She brought devotion and steadfastness to our ranks over this quarter-century and her footprints through this land of anguished youth shall remain engraved upon our lives. Our indomitable Trustee, Joan Eisenstein, has gone on to God and we acknowledge our great loss. Through the green and the dry, she was always at the Board table with her concern and guidance. Daytop's Board of Trustees offer prayerful support to her beloved Howard and the Family. (Msgr.) William B. O'Brien President Daytop Village, Inc. $(6$)EISENSTEIN--Joan B. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our longtime and devoted member, Joan B. Eisenstein, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of her passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who loved her be comforted. Dr. David M. Posner, Senior Rabbi Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, Senior Rabbi Emeritus Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. George Asch, Sec'y.
      