
        FEINBERG--Arthur W. M.D. Age 82, died on November 28, 2005. Loving husband of Harriet Newman Cohen Feinberg, and before that of Jean Dilbert Feinberg, the wife he lost in 1973, devoted father of Nancy Rheingrover (Jim), David Feinberg (Madeleine), Martha Cohen Stine (Carl), Amy Ziegelbaum (Michael), Susan Hirsch (Bruce), Patricia Epstein (Stephen) and doting grandfather of Jennifer, Andrew, Gillian, Matthew, Eric, Benjamin, Ezra, Zachary, Gabriel, Sarah, Jonathan, Jacob, Oliver and Natalie, brother of Martin Feinberg, he was a man without equal in any century. Beloved by all, a brilliant physician (internist and geriatrician), he leaves this world in deep mourning. A proud graduate of Boys High School, Columbia College and Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, he served as an Army doctor in the Philippine Islands at the end of World War II. A founding doctor of North Shore University Hospital and a leader in medical education, he was the Associate Director of the Department of Medicine from 1974 until 1989. He received a Federal grant to establish one of the first primary care training programs in the country. Dr. Feinberg was also Dean of Admissions at Cornell University Medical College, was involved with the medical students for many years and was honored with AOA membership. When asked by NSUH, he became the first Director of the NSUH's Center for Extended Care and Rehabilitation upon its opening and the first Chief of the Division of Geriatric Medicine at NSUH. He was a founding father of the Division of Ambulatory Care that brings home care to the frail and elderly. His commitment to the problems of vascular disease led to his establishment of the Vascular Diseases laboratory at NSUH. The CECR's Home Visit program for the elderly was created by Dr. Feinberg. He was also a leader of the American College of Physicians, where he chaired their Postgraduate Education Committee, was a leader of their Ethics Committee and served as a Regent of the College. He was honored by being named a Master of the ACP. Dr. Feinberg was the Chair of the NSUH Ethics Committee and at the time of his death, he held the rank of Professor of Clinical Medicine at NYU School of Medicine. He wrote extensively, including a medical column for Newsday and hosted a television program on Lifetime Medical Television. At the time of his death, Dr. Feinberg was teaching medical interns at Long Island Jewish Medical Center, writing articles for continuing medical education, working for the New York State Office of Professional Medical Conduct, giving his sought after medical lectures and providing counsel and comfort to all, professionally and personally. His loss to vascular disease is profound and unspeakable. We will love you and miss you forever. Funeral Services Wednesday, November 30th, at 1:15 p.m., ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
      