
        BLOCK--Leonard N. (December 21, 1911-November 9, 2005). Survived by Adele Block, wife of 69 years, children, Peggy Danziger and Thomas Block; grandchildren, Michael and Katie Danziger and Jonathan and Alison Block; great-grandchildren, James, Robby, Charlie and Teddy Danziger and Jake and Jilly Horowitz. Services Sunday, November 13, 11AM at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65th Street, NYC.
        BLOCK--Leonard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Leonard Block, a leader in the New York Jewish and social - service communities. Leonard and his beloved wife, Adele, expressed their devotion to social and humanitarian causes through exceptional philanthropy to New York cultural institutions, the Jewish community, and to our beneficiary agencies. The Block philanthropic tradition continues with their daughter, Peggy Danziger, and her husband, Richard; their son, Thomas, of our Real Estate Executive Committee, and his wife, Marilyn Friedman, president and past president of our network agencies, Camp Oakhurst/ New York Service for the Handicapped and the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged. We extend our deepest sympathies to Adele; to Leonard's children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren; and to the entire Block family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        BLOCK -- Leonard. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Leonard N. Block, who has been a dedicated benefactor of the institution for more than three decades. A prominent businessman, Mr. Block served as the chairman and CEO of Block Drug Co. for many years. Founder of the Adele and Leonard Block Foundation, Inc., Mr. Block will be remembered for his loyal and thoughtful generosity, and for visibly enhancing Mount Sinai's delivery of care. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Adele, his children, Thomas Roger Block and Peggy Davis Danziger, and to the entire Block family. Peter W. May, Chairman Boards of Trustees Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., President and CEO
        BLOCK--Leonard. The Board and staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged notes with profound sadness the passing of founding Trustee and benefactor Leonard Block, father-in-law of Trustee Marilyn Friedman. Mr. Block's vision and leadership in the late 1960's helped to launch JASA and guided through its formative years. His generosity helped JASA secure facilities for programs and services in its early years and his ongoing support has helped to sustain key programs. We extend our condolences to his widow Adele Block, to Marilyn Friedman and her husband Thomas Block and to the entire Block family. David M. Warren, President Aileen Gitelson, CEO
        BLOCK--Leonard. The Board and staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened by the death of Leonard Block, who passed away peacefully on November 9. Beloved husband of founding Board member Adele Block, Leonard was a staunch and generous advocate of the theater, passionate in his determination to see the theater reestablished, artistically distinguished and organizationally sound. We extend our condolences and love to Peggy, Tom and the entire Block family. John B. Beinecke, Chairman John Chalsty, President Andre Bishop Artistic Director Bernard Gersten Executive Producer
        BLOCK--Leonard. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn with heavy hearts the passing of Leonard Block, generous supporter of the Y and father of Board member Thomas Block. Our hearts and prayers are with Tom and his family, especially with Leonard's beloved wife, Adele, Tom's wife Marilyn, their children Jonathan and Alison, and Tom's sister, Peggy, and her husband Richard Danziger and their children Katie and Michael. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Michael Goldstein, President Matthew Bronfman, Chairman Sol Adler, Executive Director
        BLOCK--Leonard. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Service for the Handicap - Camp Oakhurst are deeply saddened at the death of Leonard Block. His extraordinary commitment to philanthropy's broadest reach, along with his wife Adele, found expression in six decades of support for the physically disabled children and adults who benefit from the programs at Camp Oakhurst. To his family go our heartfelt condolences. Marilyn Friedman, President Marvin A. Raps, Executive Director
        BLOCK--Leonard. Planned Parenthood of New York City, its Board of Directors and Staff, mourn the death of Leonard Block, father and grandfather of Board Members Peggy and Katie Danziger. We are grateful for Mr. Block's longstanding generosity and strong commitment to our agency. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Adele, and the entire Block and Danziger Families. Patricia J. Volland, Chair, PPNYC Board of Dir. Joan Malin, Pres. and CEO
        BLOCK--Leonard N. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Leonard N. Block. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn his passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. George Asch, Sec'y.
        BLOCK--Leonard. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Leonard Block. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jeffrey J. Siegel, Pres. Solomon S. Greenspan, Secy.
        BLOCK--Leonard. The officers, trustees and members of Ocean Beach Club mourn the passing of their friend and member and send heartfelt condolences to his family. Nancy Lobell, President Nancy Bach, Secretary
      