
        SIEGEL--Ann L. The American Cancer Society mourns the passing of our dear and dedicated ''family member,'' volunteer, fund raiser and contributor, whose commitment and compassion to the fight against cancer for nearly 15 years were unmatched. Ann worked tirelessly to raise awareness about our organization's mission and supported our research efforts. She served as a member of the national Foundation Board of Trustees and was a member of the Eastern Division's Special Events Comittee. Ann was the proud founder and chair of the Holiday Card Collection Program, currently in its 13th year. She raised nearly $3 million for the Society through this effort. In addition to being a strong supporter of our annual special events, she chaired the Gala honoring Tony Bennett in 1990. In 1993, she received the distinguished Alfred P. Sloan, Jr. Memorial Award. In one of her collection catalogs for the American Cancer Society, Ann summarized her commitment to our cause by stating, ''by helping to fight this devastating disease, you will help to make a world free from cancer for us and our future generations.'' While we celebrate her life and our many memories of her, we will deeply miss her passion, her presence, and her caring spirit. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Ann's husband and best friend, Herb, and the entire family. American Cancer Society Donald Distasio Eastern Division CEO Karen Radwin Eastern Division Senior VP and staff and volunteers $(6$)SIEGEL--Ann L. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the passing of our cherished member, Ann L. Siegel. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. George Asch, Sec'y $(6$)SIEGEL--Ann L. Your smile will always be the sunshine of our lives. We shall miss you forever and send our warmest love always to you and your ''Herbie.'' Richard and Diana Feldman
      