
        HUTSON--Frank A., Jr. Attorney Frank A. Hutson Jr., 88, of Providence and Little Compton, RI died Sunday, September 11, 2005 in Providence, RI. He was the husband of Jean (Crobaugh) Hutson and the late Catherine ''Kay'' B. (Halsey) Hutson. Born in New York, NY a son of the late Atty. Frank A. Hutson and Irene (Rigby) Hutson, he resided in Bronxville, NY until 1956, Cohasset, MA from 1956 to 1960, Essex Fells, NJ from 1960 to 1991 before moving to Little Compton, RI. He also wintered in Lake Wales, FL. Mr. Hutson received a Bachelors Degree in 1937 from Swarthmore College in PA and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He continued his education at Yale Law School graduating in 1940. He enlisted as Private, in the U.S. Army on December 8, 1941. A Combat Liaison Officer with Free French Forces, North Africa, Italy, France and Germany, he received four battle stars, a U.S. Bronze Star, the French Croix de Guerre with Palm, and a Silver Star. He was discharged as Captain in December of 1945 and was nominated for the French Legion of Honor. Atty. Hutson practiced law in NYC and Boston, initially with Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam and Roberts in NYC. Thereafter for 30 years, he was an Atty. and Officer with the American Telegraph and Telephone Co. and its subsidiaries including N.E. Tel & Tel. In 1982, he retired from AT&T as General Attorney and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Hutson was a former Director of American Bell Inc., AT&T, International and Bellcom Inc. He was a planner of early space flights including the 1969 moon landing. He received commendation ''In recognition of his contribution to manned space flight.'' He also was on the Board of Mount Vernon Mills Inc., Halsey Securities Corp., The American Cross, the Boy Scouts and Planned Parenthood. He was a former member of the Sakonnet Golf Club, the Montclair Golf Club and the Warrens Point Beach Club. Surviving in addition to his wife: one son, Dr. William H. Hutson and his wife, Susan, of Little Compton, RI; two daughters, Wrenn Boulton and her husband, John, of Idaho Springs, CO and Jean H. Lister and her husband, James, of Evergreen, CO. He is also survived by five grandchildren. Memorial Contributions may be made to the Yale Law School Fund, P.O. Box 208341, New Haven, CT 06520 or St. Andrews by the Sea Episcopal Church, P.O. 491, Little Compton, RI 02837. For information: Waring-Sullivan Home of Memorial Tribute at ''Cherry Place'', 178 Winter Street, Fall River, MA.
      