
        MARDER--John Gerald (Jerry), 78, of New York, East Hampton, and Anguilla B.W.I., died peacefully at home in NYC on December 10th after a brave and inspiring fourand-a-half-year struggle with pancreatic cancer. Son of the late Rhea and Joseph T. Marder, D.D.S., Jerry was an advertising executive, real estate investor, buffalo rancher, avid Long Island fisherman, jazz buff, and family man. A former Executive Vice-President of Grey Advertising (now Grey Global), he was born in N.Y.C. in 1926. He attended Fieldston School, Cornell University and graduated from the Columbia Business School (1950). During WWII, he was a radio officer in the U.S. Maritime Service and U.S. Army Transport Service. He served during the Korean conflict as a 2nd Lt. in the U.S. Army. He spent 30 years at Grey, managing accounts for clients including Macy's, Proctor & Gamble and Revlon. A pioneer in government advertising, he managed campaigns for the U.S. Navy, Joint Recruiting Advertising Program, and U.S. Department of Transportation. After his retirement in 1986, he was instrumental in the rebirth of Miami's South Beach and served on the boards of LIM and Lesley College, among others. With his brother, he built (by hand) and ran BelleAir Farms, a buffalo ranch in Northeastern PA, home of ''Buffalo Belle'' brand bison. His first marriage to the late Barbara Sand Marder ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, Joan Kron, the author and Allure editorat-large; son, Jonathan Marder and his partner Gregory Grimes of NYC; daughters Susan Zelouf and her husband David Zelouf, M.D., of Merion, PA and Jane Martin and her husband Matthew J. Martin of NYC; stepson, Daniel Kron and his wife Geane Brito of Miami Beach, FL; brother Michael Z. Marder, D.D.S. of Rockland County, and five grandchildren. He was adored by all. The fluke swimming off Montauk Point may sleep more securely now, but Jerry will be sorely missed by the family he was devoted to and by his friends and colleagues. Donations can be made to Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, H-918, NY, NY 10021 for Dr. David Kelsen's research in pancreatic cancer. A funeral service will be held at 11:30 a.m., Wednesday, December 14, at Frank E. Campbell's Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue (at 81st Street).
      