
        MENSCH--Homer R. Bassist and pedagogue, 91, died at home. He was Chairman of the Bass Department at the Juilliard School, and served on the faculty of the Manhattan and Mannes Schools of Music, Yale, Rutgers, Dalcroze School, Queens College, and Catholic University. Assistant Principal Bass of the Pittsburgh Symphony, with Reiner and Klemperer. Member of NY Philharmonic under Barbirolli, Bernstein, Boulez, and the NBC Symphony under Toscanini, staff member at CBS, played for Eileen Farrell, Ernie Kovacs, Jack Parr, Tonight Show and Ed Sullivan. In 1975 he began playing Principal Bass for Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra, NY Chamber Symphony, NY Choral Society, Little Orchestra Society, and NY Pops. He played on recordings of Heifitz, Piatagorsky, Stern. Milstein, Bach Aria Group, Casals Festival Orchestra, Columbia Symphony, and on virtually every commercial recording made in NY. Recorded with Sinatra, Streisand, Paul McCartney and more. Taught 45 students a week including young beginners, conservatory students, and both classical and jazz professionals. Teaching until his death, he was held in highest esteem by all. His wife, the late Constance Mensch, a violinist and teacher, died in 2000. Homer R. Mensch is survived by former students carrying on his traditions and dedicated to his memory. Donations to the Homer and Constance Mensch Scholarship Fund to be created at the following schools: The Juilliard School, Manhattan School of Music, and Mannes College of Music. Service Wednesday, December 14, 3PM, Frank E. Campbell's Funeral Chapel, Madison at 81st.
        $(6$)MENSCH--Homer R. The New York Philharmonic mourns the passing, on December 9, of Homer R. Mensch, a bass player who served two terms with the Orchestra, 1938-43 & 1966-75, taking time out for military service and freelance work. At his death he was chairman of the bass department at The Juilliard School, in addition to numerous other faculty appointments. Philharmonic colleagues remember him as an elegant, dapper man, an excellent musician, and a devoted teacher to his legion of students. Lorin Maazel, Music Director Members of the Orchestra Paul B. Guenther, Chairman Zarin Mehta, Pres/Exec. Dir. Members of the Staff
        $(6$)MENSCH--Homer. The Manhattan School of Music is deeply saddened by the loss of longtime faculty member Homer Mensch. A renowned member of our string bass faculty since 1980, Manhattan School of Music presented him with its President's Medal for Distinguished Service in May, 2005. His dignity and compassion enriched the lives of his many students, and as a colleague and friend he will be sorely missed by all. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to his family. David A. Rahm, Chairman Board of Trustees Robert Sirota, President
        $(6$)MENSCH--Homer R. The Juilliard community mourns the passing of Homer Mensch, one of the great double bassists of the twentieth century and a member of The Juilliard faculty since 1970. With great dignity and artistry, Homer embodied the very best attributes of the modern musician as an active soloist, chamber musician, and orchestral player. He also was one of the most important teachers of the double bass to generations of instrumentalists. His warm, engaging personality and presence will be missed by us all. Joseph W. Polisi, President
        $(6$)MENSCH--Homer R. My teacher, my mentor, my anchor, my friend. You are irreplaceable. With all my heart, I love you forever. Judy
      