
        WHITE--Thomas S. Jr., 79. Of Green's Farms, Connecticut and Willsboro, New York, died Friday afternoon, December 16, at Bridgeport Hospital. Mr. White was a graduate of Peekskill Military Academy and Princeton University, Class of 1948, with a BA in psychology. At Princeton, he was a member of Cap and Gown Club and active in varsity lacrosse. He took a military leave of absence in January 1945 to join the Army Air Force where he trained as a cryptographer and was sent to Italy as an information and education specialist. Mr. White was employed by L. Bamberger and Company in Newark, New Jersey and then worked for Proctor and Gamble in Cincinnati from 1953 to 1965. He joined the Bristol-Myers Company as Plant Project Manager for Clairol in Stamford, Connecticut. He was transferred to the parent company as Director, and then Vice President, of Industrial Relations and Personnel. He ultimately became Vice President, Office of the Chairman until his retirement in 1989. He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Helen Lawler White; two sons, Mark Thomson White of Fairfield, Connecticut and Frank Carpenter White of Montpelier, Vermont; and a daughter, Christine White Babson, her husband Rob and two granddaughters, Esther and Margaret Babson of Medfield, Massachusetts. His brothers David W. White and Stephen P. Elliott, sister-inlaw Patricia C. Lawler, along with their families also survive him. Mr. White was a commissioner on the National Commission for Accreditation of Law Enforcement Agencies from 1984-1996 and a member of the Princeton Club in New York. He served as a governor at the Pequot Yacht Club in Southport and a member of the board of trustees at Earthplace in Westport. He was a former vestryman of Trinity Episcopal Church in Southport and a member of the Country Club of Fairfield. He also played Santa Claus for the children of Devon Road, Green's Farms for many years. He will be sorely missed by his family and many friends. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Trinity Episcopal Church Outreach Fund and the American Heart Association. Spear-Miller Funeral Home in Fairfield will handle funeral arrangements and a memorial service will be held at 11:00 at Trinity Episcopal Church, Southport, Connecticut on Friday, December 30, 2005.
      