
        WALLACE--Emmett.Born Brookline, MA December 14, 1923, died December 9, 2005, the youngest of six children born to Doretta (Lowenstein) and Arthur Wallace. A graduate from the Browne and Nichols School and received his Bachelor's degree from Cornell University, his Master's degree from The Harvard Business School and his Doctorate from Columbia University. He served in Norway under the Marshall Plan of Economic Recovery following World War II. He established a management consulting firm that provided services to many businesses, educational, governmental and voluntary organizations in the US and abroad. He coauthored the book 'Making it Assertively', which instructs one to deal with people in a positive and constructive manner. Emmett was very active as a Selectman for the town of Easton, CT. He loved life and cared especially for his family and close friends. Emmett will always be remembered for his many passions, which include politics, educational reform, fine food and a wonderful sense of humor. He was altogether a great humanitarian and will surely be missed. Emmett was a devoted husband of the late Jean (Rubenstein) Wells Wallace and is survived by his children: Kim Aanonsen of Greenwich, CT; Tina Kopelman of Wellesley, MA; Adrianna Bonelli of Merritt Island, FL; and Andrew Wallace of Canaan, NH. Also survived by his first wife, Anita Wallace of Oslo, Norway and seven grandchildren, sisters Priscilla Strauss of Needham, MA, Carolyn (Hooky) Darack and her husband, Melvin of Canton, MA., and brother Edward Wallace of Longmeadow, MA. He was predeceased by sister Barbara Wallace and Leveritt (Buddy) Wallace. Services will be held from The Abraham L. Green and Son Funeral Home 88 Beach Road Fairfield, CT on Wednesday, December 14, 2005 at 12:00 noon followed by a memorial gathering at the Easton Community Center, 364 Sport Hill Road, Easton, CT. Donations may be sent to The Emmett Wallace Memorial Fund (to be established) C/O Attorney Henry A. Perles 2425 Post Road Southport, CT 06890.
      