
        HARRON--Paul F. Jr. Cable television pioneer Paul F. Harron, Jr. died on December 8, 2005 at the University of Pennsylvania's Intensive Care Unit in Philadelphia, after a brief battle with lung cancer. He was 63. Mr. Harron was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Harron Communications Corp., a cable television and broadcasting company, which was founded in 1976. Mr. Harron lived in Malvern, PA, near his company's headquarters in Frazer, PA. In 1999, Mr. Harron sold his company's cable subscribers to Adelphia Communications Corp. The deal was the mostnoted of Mr. Harron's 35-plus year career. Mr. Harron's life and his business attitude could be summed up by the gold-plated plaque on his desk that read: ''No Guts, No Glory.'' An entrepreneur who owned racehorses and a sailboat named the ''Miss Conduct,'' Mr. Harron cultivated and expanded the cable and broadcasting business of his late father, Paul F. Harron, Sr. Within 20 years, Harron Communications was one of the largest cable television companies in the nation. Mr. Harron invested in television, radio, independent films, and venture capitalism during his career. He also expanded his business into nine states: New Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts, Vermont, Michigan, New York, California, Maryland and Virginia. Mr. Harron also started a cable advertising firm, Metrobase Cable Advertising, which was later sold to Comcast Corp. He was also a founding board member of C-Span. Outside of communications, Mr. Harron owned the Vesper Club, a Philadelphia eating club. He was also a member of the New York Athletic Club, the Indian Creek Country Club in Miami, the Surf Club in Surfside, FL, and the Aronimink Golf Club in Newtown Square, PA. He was a graduate of the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, MA, and a graduate of Malvern Preparatory School in Malvern. Mr. Harron was a significant benefactor to the school and to many other charitable causes. He is survived by his mother Margaret E. Harron, sister Patricia H. Imbesi, nephews James J. Bruder Jr., Anthony M. Imbesi, Paul H. Imbesi, Charles L. Imbesi, and nieces Giovanna C. Imbesi, Margaret Anne Bruder Nolen and Jennifer M. Bruder. He was also brother to the late Margaret ''Peggy'' Anne Bruder. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, December 14, 2005 at S.S Simon and Jude Catholic Church, 8 Cavanaugh Court, West Chester, PA, at 12 noon. Family and friends are invited to call after 10 AM on Wednesday at S.S. Simon and Jude Catholic Church. Interment will be at Calvary Cemetery in Conshohocken, PA. In lieu of flowers the family would greatly appreciate donations, in the name of Paul F. Harron, Jr. to Malvern Preparatory School, 418 South Warren Avenue, Malvern, PA. 19355; or the Lung Center at the University of Pennsylvania, 3400 Spruce St., Ground Floor, Rhoads Pavilion, Philadelphia, PA 19104. For further information please call The Donohue Funeral Home, West Chester, PA; (610) 431-9000.
      