
        WITTING--Chris J. A pioneer in the early days of television, business executive, entrepreneur, philanthropist, and community leader, died peacefully at his home in Syracuse, NY on December 19. He was 90 years old. Witting retired as chairman, chief executive officer, and director of the CrouseHinds Company (now known as Cooper Crouse-Hinds) in 1982. Under his leadership, beginning in 1965, annual sales at Crouse-Hinds grew from $50 million to almost $900 million, and the company became listed on the Fortune 500. New product introductions and acquisitions over the years helped to transform the modest electrical equipment firm into the world leader in aviation lighting products in the mid-70s, with subsidiaries in South America, Europe and Australia. Witting was known for his belief in the power of individuals and positive thinking. His management style was to empower his employees, delegating responsibility and giving them every incentive to improve their skills and advance. He was often quoted as saying, ''Everyone should be Number One in something. It doesn't matter what that is. Since you spend most of your life working, you may as well be the best in your field.'' A firm believer in the importance of giving back to the community, he was both an industry and civic leader. He served as president of the Manufacturers Association of Syracuse, chairman of the board of trustees of Syracuse University, and a member, board member, and director of numerous other groups, including the Everson Museum, Metropolitan Development Association of Syracuse and Central New York, and Syracuse Symphony Orchestra. In 1973 the Syracuse Herald-American named him ''Man of the Year.'' His contributions were recognized with numerous awards. He held honorary degrees from Clarkson College, LeMoyne College, and Syracuse University. In 1996, Representative James T. Walsh (N.Y.) paid him tribute in Congress, calling him ''a true civic leader, a man who has not only led the way for manufacturing interests in Central New York, but has touched the lives of thousands of his fellow citizens with his philanthropy, his counsel, and his encouragement.'' Witting began his career as a public accountant at Price Waterhouse in New York City. He worked his way through college, earning a B.S. from NYU in 1941. That same year, Price Waterhouse assigned him to Camp Shows USA (later USO Camp Shows), for which he directed all financial work as treasurer and comptroller. During his tenure as executive vice president, Camp Shows had 10,000 entertainers working in all areas where servicemen and women were stationed during World War II. A leading figure in the early years of television, Witting developed the Allen B. Dumont organization from a six-man group to 800 personnel, operating wholly owned stations in New York, Pittsburgh, and Washington, DC, as well as a TV network relationship in 58 cities. Dumont became the first commercial operating television network in the country, with regularly scheduled news broadcast from Washington, DC to New York City. Witting is credited with having brought Sid Caesar, Imogene Coca, Jackie Gleason, Dennis James, and Bishop Sheen to network TV. He left Dumont in 1953 to become president of the Westinghouse Broadcasting Company, a subsidiary of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation. While he was at Westinghouse Broadcasting, every Westinghouse radio and TV station was rated number one in its market. Witting later joined the parent company in Pittsburgh, as group vice president in charge of the electronic components and consumer products divisions. In 1964 he moved to the International Telephone and Telegraph Corp. (ITT) in New York City, serving as second in command to the president and chairman, Harold Geneen. At ITT Witting directed the world headquarters marketing, manufacturing, and technical activities, as well as two subsidiaries, ITT Export Corp. and Distributed Products Co. He remained active long after his 1982 retirement, operating his own investment company. He devoted his efforts to helping others achieve business success, not only investing in local companies, but also endowing the Witting Chair in Entrepreneurship at Syracuse University's Whitman School of Management. Throughout his long life, Witting enjoyed the outdoors, camping, hiking, and doing chores on his property. Nearly every day he rose before dawn to go jogging, accompanied by one of his beloved dogs, no matter what the weather. For some 35 years he made sure that family members stayed close by hosting an annual reunion at his home for the extended Witting clan, who traveled from all parts of the country to be there. He also maintained a cottage in New Jersey for use by his family. It was a Sears house that he built himself after returning from Europe at the end of World War II. He is survived by his devoted wife, Marshia (Pullman) Witting, sons Leland Witting and Chris Witting Jr., daughters Anne W. Kuhn and Nancy Witting, seven grandchildren, and five greatgrandchildren. He was predeceased by his first wife, Grace (Orrok) Witting, and his brother, Nicholas Witting Jr. Funeral services private. Burial St. Mary's Cemetery, DeWitt. There are no calling hours. Contributions: Francis House (108 Michaels Ave., Syracuse, NY 13208), the Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University (721 University Ave., Syracuse, NY 13244), and the Syracuse Symphony Orchestra (411 Montgomery St., Ste 40, Syracuse, NY 13202. EatonTubbs - Schepp Funeral Home, Fayetteville, NY.
      