
        RUSSO--Anthony C. (Tony), 88, a retired New York City Director of Labor Relations, and a resident of Flushing, Queens, passed on December 8, 2005. Russo was one of the last living members of the LaGuardia ''Career Service'' recruited into City Service in 1936 during the administration of Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia. Over 26,000 candidates took the civil service examination for admission to the program. Mr. Russo went on to serve in the Departments of Sanitation, Welfare, and Labor and ultimately in the New York City Office of Labor Relations to which he was appointed Director by then Mayor Abraham Beame. He was active in and prominent throughout the entire field of labor relations. He helped to organize The Government and Civic Employees Union established by the C.I.O. to replace the United Public Employees Union. During a 43 year career, he served seven NYC Mayors from the administrations of Fiorello LaGuardia to Edward Koch. Russo was designated by the C.I.O. to serve as the C.I.O. representative on the Career & Salary Plans Classification and Salary Appeal Boards. Mayor Robert Wagner appointed him Deputy Commissioner of the City Department of Labor. Mayor John Lindsay abolished the City Labor Department and appointed Russo Deputy Director of the newly created NYC Office of Labor Relations. Russo entered the labor force at an early age working on a WPA road gang. He never had a formal education but he bacame active and prominent in politics, union organizing, collective bargaining, and civic and religious activities. He was a forceful and persuasive public speaker. Anthony Russo was devoted to the Catholic Church. He was elected to the Board of Trustees of Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Brooklyn in 1978 and served as the Chair of the Board's Human Resources Committee. He along with his colleagues directed Catholic Charities in its efforts to partner with parishes in serving the community. In 1979 Anthony was appointed by Bishop Francis J. Mugavero, D.D., to serve on the Diocesan Task Force on Goals and Priorities. He was an active and staunch supporter of his local parish, the Church of Mary's Nativity, as well as the Diocese of Brooklyn. In his parish, he was the President of the Holy Name Society, General Chairman of the Building Fund Committee and General Chairman of the Committee to a new convent and private chapel for the nuns. In the 1990's he was appointed by Bishop Thomas V. Daily, D.D., to the Brooklyn Diocesan Sanctity of Life Commission. He served as the Vice President of the Brooklyn Catholic Charities and Chairman of the Personnel Committee. He was also a promoter of Mount Manresa Retreat House in Staten Island, Vice President, United Cerebral Palsy of Queens, Inc. and a 1977 winner of the Public Service Award, Fund for the City of New York, and the 1972 Public Service Gold Medal Award from the Civil Service Leader. He is survived by his beloved and devoted wife of 58 years Marguerite; his brother Louis M. Russo; sister-in-law Tillie G. Russo; niece Andrea Russo and her family: husband Michael Zierler, son Samuel Zierler; and nephew Michael Russo. Reposing Quinn - Fogarty Funeral Home, 162-14 Sanford Ave, Flushing, NY. Visitation Monday 2-5 and 7-9:30 pm. Mass of Christian Burial Tuesday, 9:45 am, Church of Mary's Nativity. Interment Gate of Heaven Cemetery.
      