
        POWERS--Frederic B., Jr., 72, died at his home in Larchmont, New York on Tuesday, December 20, 2005. Frederic Powers, Jr. was born in the Bronx in 1933 to Irene and Frederic Powers, Sr. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Virginia Van Deventer, four sons Christopher, Jeffrey, Stephen, Frederic III, their wives and thirteen grandchildren. Frederic Powers graduated Iona Preparatory and Fordham University. After college, Fred served as a First Lieutenant in the Marine Corp at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina where he was in charge of a Tank Platoon. He later served as the Brigg Officer at the Marine Barracks at the US Naval Base in Brooklyn, New York. In 1957 he received an honorable discharge, after which he served in the Marine Corp Reserves while starting his civilian life. Frederic Powers started in business owning a small fastener company founded by his father and developed it over the past 50 years to become the largest concrete fastener manufacturer in the United States. The company was started as the Rawlplug Company, Inc. based out of New Rochelle, New York. Fred added manufacturing in Michigan, Indianapolis and Chicago; acquired a Canadian company and established 28 locations in the USA. He felt his most notable achievement was the continued operation and expansion of the business by his his four sons. In 1995 the business name was changed to Powers Fasteners, Inc. with the intended purpose of international expansion. The company has continued to prosper adding locations around the globe including Australia, New Zealand, Europe and South East Asia. In February 2006 the company will open its new world headquarters in Brewster, New York on its 16 acre site. Fred Powers served on the boards of several charitable organizations throughout Westchester. He served as Chairman of the Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle as well as Chairman of the Pinnacle Heatlh Care Group. In 1997, he was the Honoree at the Sound Shore Hospital's Annual Gala at the Waldorf Astoria. He was the former President of the Boys and Girls Club of New Rochelle and was a former Board Member of the National Board of Junior Achievement. He served on the Board of Directors of Westchester Federal Savings and Loan. Fred was also Chairman of the Howard Foundation whose contributions were almost entirely earmarked for Westchester charities. His most notable charities were those in Westchester and Vero Beach, Florida. Fred was a devout Catholic and both he and his wife Virginia have been active parishioners of the St. Pius X Church in Scarsdale, New York for more than 38 years. Fred Powers was honored by many of the charities and groups he served. He was awarded ''Man of the Year'' by the New Rochelle Boys and Girls Club; awarded ''Citizen of the Year'' by the Young Men's Christian Association and given the Civic Achievement Award by the Knights of Columbus. The Savings and Loan Association awarded him the ''Community Service Award'' and he was inducted into the ''Fastener Hall of Fame'' by the National Industrial Fastener Association. Fred and his wife Virginia have homes in Larchmont, New York and Vero Beach, Florida. Fred belonged to Winged Foot Golf Club in Mamaroneck, New York and Shenorock Shore Club in Rye NY. He was also a member of Johns Island and Quail Valley located in Vero Beach, Florida. Fred enjoyed golf, painting, and gardening in addition to his family, friends and philanthropy. Services will be held at Coxe & Graziano Funeral Home at 767 E Boston Post Road, Mamaroneck, NY, (914)-698-5968 on Wednesday and Thursday, December 21st and 22nd from 2-4pm and 7-9pm. The Funeral Mass will be held Friday December 23rd at the St. Augustine's Church at 18 Cherry Avenue (corner of Larchmont Ave and Cherry Ave) in Larchmont, New York at 10:00AM. He will be buried at Greenwood Cemetery in Rye, New York. The family requests that donations in lieu of flowers be sent to Hospice of Westchester, 95 South Broadway, White Plains, New York 10601, or Sound Shore Medical Center, 16 Guion Place, New Rochelle, NY, 10801. $(6$)POWERS--Frederic B. Sound Shore Health System mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Frederic B. Powers. Together with his family, Fred was a steadfast supporter of the Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester and a devoted member of the Board of Governors. He served from 1967 to 1983, and returned in 1987 to the present. During this time he served as Vice Chairman in 1990, Chairman from 1994 to 1997, Chairman of the Sound Shore Health System from 1999 to the present, and on the Pinnacle Board from 1999 to the present as Chairman. His commitment to providing his community with the highest level of health care services by furthering the mission of the Medical Center will be forever remembered at Sound Shore. We will miss his guidance and support. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his wife, Ginny, and their children and grandchildren. Lawrence J. Ruisi, Chairman John R. Spicer, President and CEO
      