
        MENSCH--Homer R. Bassist and pedagogue, 91, died at home. He was Chairman of the Bass Department at the Juilliard School, and served on the faculty of the Manhattan and Mannes Schools of Music, Yale, Rutgers, Dalcroze School, Queens College, and Catholic University. Assistant Principal Bass of the Pittsburgh Symphony, with Reiner and Klemperer. Member of NY Philharmonic under Barbirolli, Bernstein, Boulez, and the NBC Symphony under Toscanini, staff member at CBS, played for Eileen Farrell, Ernie Kovacs, Jack Parr, Tonight Show and Ed Sullivan. In 1975 he began playing Principal Bass for Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra, NY Chamber Symphony, NY Choral Society, Little Orchestra Society, and NY Pops. He played on recordings of Heifitz, Piatagorsky, Stern. Milstein, Bach Aria Group, Casals Festival Orchestra, Columbia Symphony, and on virtually every commercial recording made in NY. Recorded with Sinatra, Streisand, Paul McCartney and more. Taught 45 students a week including young beginners, conservatory students, and both classical and jazz professionals. Teaching until his death, he was held in highest esteem by all. His wife, the late Constance Mensch, a violinist and teacher, died in 2000. Homer R. Mensch is survived by former students carrying on his traditions and dedicated to his memory. Donations to the Homer and Constance Mensch Scholarship Fund to be created at the following schools: The Juilliard School, Manhattan School of Music, and Mannes College of Music. Service Wednesday, December 14, 3PM, Frank E. Campbell's Funeral Chapel, Madison at 81st.
        $(6$)MENSCH--Homer R. Mannes College The New School for Music and The New School mourn the passing of Homer Mensch, one of the leading bass players and teachers of our age. Homer taught at Mannes for many years, imparting his wisdom to generations of students. We will miss his musicianship, dedication, and the sparkle in his eyes. Philip Scaturro, Chair, The New School Board of Trustees Bob Kerrey, President, The New School John Beerbower, Chair Mannes Board of Governors Joel Lester, Dean, Mannes College, The New School for Music
        $(6$)MENSCH--Homer R. The Juilliard community mourns the passing of Homer Mensch, one of the great double bassists of the twentieth century and a member of The Juilliard faculty since 1970. With great dignity and artistry, Homer embodied the very best attributes of the modern musician as an active soloist, chamber musician, and orchestral player. He also was one of the most important teachers of the double bass to generations of instrumentalists. His warm, engaging personality and presence will be missed by us all. Joseph W. Polisi, President
      