
        HAAS--Peter E. The Board of Trustees, staff, docents, and volunteers of the Skirball Cultural Center, Los Angeles, express our sorrow upon the passing of a founding and pioneering member of the Board of Trustees, Peter E. Haas of San Francisco. Peter was an early champion of the vision of the Skirball Cultural Center meant to explore the connections between four thousand years of Jewish heritage and the vitality of American democratic ideals. Through his active participation, he deepened his own understanding of the bridge between his Jewish heritage and that of the democratic America he loved so very much. During the past decade as a member of the Board, Peter helped refine the Skirball Cultural Center's mission and guided the Center's growth as a cultural and educational institution into the largest of its kind in the world. His commitment to the institution paralleled his dedication as a businessman, civic leader, and philanthropist to help create a more civil society for all. As a driving force in the growth of Levi Strauss & Co., his unprecedented devotion to corporate responsibility made him a role model for business leaders worldwide. His generosity to the community as a supporter of social causes helped improve the lives of millions of workers, children, and the poor. His integrity, humility, and humanity will inspire us and all future generations who visit the Skirball Cultural Center. We mourn his loss with his family and friends throughout this land and beyond. Peter's memory will always remain a blessing and source of strength to those who follow in his footsteps. Howard I. Friedman, Chairman, Board of Trustees Skirball Cultural Center Uri D. Herscher, Founding President and CEO Skirball Cultural Center
        $(6$)HAAS--Peter. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn with sorrow the loss of Peter Haas, beloved husband of Mimi Haas, MoMA Trustee and member of the International Council. Peter was a great philanthropist and good friend. In addition to his patronage of the arts, he focused on childhood education, health and human services, and public affairs. He was an inspiration to us all. We will miss him deeply and extend our sympathies to Mimi and to all members of the Haas family. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Robert B. Menschel, Chairman Marie-Josee Kravis, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director The Museum of Modern Art, New York Sir Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, Chairman, Jo Carole Lauder, President, The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art, NY
      