
        GRUSON--Michael. Former Partner and Of Counsel, Shearman & Sterling (1936 2005) Michael Gruson, a key figure in international banking and capital markets, died in New York on December 20 of a brain tumor. Mr. Gruson, a long-time partner with Shearman & Sterling, was a well-known and highly respected attorney practicing in the United States and Germany. A noted specialist in foreign banking and securities law, he represented government-owned and private European, Asian and Latin American banks and companies, as well as helped usher in commercial relations between the United States and Germany. He was fundamental to the establishment in New York of many foreign banks, including the Bank of China and Credit Anstalt. Mr. Gruson was a pioneer in international law, and helped inaugurate Shearman & Sterling's German practice. He was very instrumental in developing the firm's foreign associate program in which many well-known lawyers and business executives participated, including the General Counsel of the Frankfurt stock exchange. Born in 1936 in Berlin, Mr. Gruson received his legal education in Germany (University of Mainz, Freie Universitat, Berlin, Dr. Jur. 1966), and in the United States (Columbia University, MCL; LLB). He joined Shearman & Sterling in 1965 and was elected to partnership in 1973. A respected academic, he was the author and co-author of several seminal books in international banking and lectured widely. He was a visiting fellow at numerous international universities. He is survived by his wife, Hiroko, sons Rudolf, Andreas, Sebastian, Matthias, Florian and Konrad, and grandchildren Luis, Manuel, Alexander, Sebastian, Federico Hermann and Sophia. Services will be private. A memorial service will be scheduled at a later date. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to the New York Brain Tumor Project of the Cornell Weill Medical College, 525 East 68th Street, New York, New York 10021 in honor of Mr. Michael Gruson and in care of Dr. Susan C. Pannullo.
      