
        SOCARIDES -- Charles Wil liam, M.D., on December 25, 2005. Beloved husband of Claire Alford Socarides, loving father of Jacqueline Nicole Socarides, Charles W. Socarides, Jr., Alexandra Socarides, Richard Socarides and Daphne Socarides (deceased), loving grandfather of Archer Fried Socarides and beloved brother of Helen Socarides Covett, and uncle to Dr. Robert G. Covett. Born January 24, 1922, Charles Socarides determined at the age of 13, after reading a book on the life of Sigmund Freud, that he would become a physician and psychoanalyst. Charles Socarides graduated from Harvard College and went on to receive his certificate in psychoanalytic medicine from Columbia University in 1952. He was the author of eight books including his master work, ''The Preoedipal Origin and Psychoanalytic Therapy of Sexual Perversions,'' and ''Work and Its Inhibitions - Psychoanalytic Essays'' as well as over 80 psychoanalytic articles. Charles Socarides appeared on numerous news programs to discuss his psychoanalytic work and findings including Dateline, 60 Minutes and Larry King Live. Charles Socarides was the past president and co-founder of N.A.R.T.H.the National Association for Research and Therapy of Homosexuality. Charles Socarides was on the board of directors of the Margaret S. Mahler Psychiatric Research Foundation; he was a member of the International Advisory Committee, Second Delphi International Psychoanalytic Symposium, Delphi, Greece, 1988; he was also a member of the American Medical Association, the American Psychiatric Association, the Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine, a life member of the American Psychoanalytic Association where he chaired a discussion group for many years, the International Psychoanalytic Association and he was an affiliate member of the Royal Society of Medicine, London. Dr. Charles Socarides was Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at The Albert Einstein College of Medicine, NYC, 1978-1996. His numerous awards include that of Distinguished Psychoanalyst, Association of Psychoanalytic Psychologists, British Health Service, London, England, April 28, 1995; the first Sigmund Freud Lectureship Award, New York Center for Psychoanalytic Training, NYC, and the 1987 Sigmund Freud Award given by the American Society of Psychoanalytic Physicians in recognition of distinguished service to psychiatry and psychoanalytic research. Charles Socarides was respected and loved by his friends and patients for his generosity of spirit, loyalty, courage, responsibility, loving kindness and goodness. He will be sorely missed by his wife Claire Alford Socarides, for Charlie was her one true love forever and ever. He would say to his patients--''I love you and will love you always and be with you always.'' A wake will be held at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 2-5 PM and 7-9 PM, on Wednesday and Thursday, and a funeral mass will be held at 9 AM, Friday, at the Greek Cathedral of the Holy Trinity on East 74th St.
      