
        KORZENIK--Sidney S. Died December 6 at age 96. Husband of Rabbi Emily Faust Korzenik, father of David, Jeremy, Deborah and Joshua, grandfather of Alexander, Hannah, Daniel & Benjamin. He was adored by all of them and is for them the model of a humane intellectual, and virtuous life. He was a blessing to his family and his community. Friends and family will gather for a memorial service Sunday, December 11, 2005, 3 PM at Bet Am Shalom Synagogue, 295 Soundview Avenue, White Plains, NY.
        $(6$)KORZENIK--Sidney. The Horace Mann School mourns with deep sorrow the death of our dear friend, former parent and our esteemed, long-time Trustee and Emeritus Trustee, Sidney Korzenik. The beloved husband of Rabbi Emily Faust Korzenik '46 and devoted proud parent of Jeremy '70, Dr. Joshua '75, David and Deborah, he was a remarkable individual who lived his life with courage, grace, dignity and compassion. His thoughtfulness, commitment and generosity to Horace Mann are irreplaceable. We shall remain ever grateful for his wisdom, inspiration and expertise. He will be missed by all of us. We extend our deepest sympathy to Rabbi Korzenik, to his children and to the rest of his family. Dr. Thomas Kelly Head of School Robert J. Katz '65 Chair, Board of Trustees
        $(6$)KORZENIK--Sidney. The entire Continuum Health Partners family joins with the staff of the Legal Affairs Department in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Sidney Korzenik, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague, Deborah Korzenik, Esq., Senior Associate General Counsel. To Debbie, her mother Rabbi Emily Faust Korzenik, her siblings David, Jeremy and Joshua, the entire Korzenik family and all of her father's loved ones, we extend heartfelt condolences. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman Board of Trustees Stanley Brezenoff, President and CEO Kathryn C. Meyer, Esq. Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and General Counsel
        $(6$)KORZENIK--Sidney S. Was a Founder of Reading Reform Foundation, who guided our early years by providing the gift of his legal advice, profound wisdom and incisive intellect. His ability to quote great literature made board meetings an educational experience and a delight. Beneath all this brilliance was a sweetness of nature and a great desire to better the lot of inner-city children by improving their education. We will miss this courtly, gracious man.
      