
        SCHWARZSCHILD -- Kathryn (Kitty) Emsheimer. In her 98th year, passed away January 23 in Richmond, Virginia. She was the widow of W. Harry Schwarzschild, Jr. (former Chairman of the Central National Corporation) and the former wife of Laurence C. Leeds (founder of Spear, Leeds & Kellogg). She was born in New York City, attended Barnard College and studied at the Art Students League of New York. She married Mr. Leeds in 1928. She was a Renaissance woman, independent thinker and a free spirit with great intellectual curiosity. A muchadmired and sought-after beauty, she became a recognized sculptress and painter. During the '30s, she socialized and entertained amidst the leading playwrights, authors and artists of her time. A highlight of her creativity was when in 1939 she collaborated with Norman Bel Geddes in creating the ''Futurama'', the General Motors exhibit that was among the most-visited sites of the 1939 World's Fair in New York. When the United States entered World War II, she completed pilot training and became a WASP (Women's Airforce Service Pilot). At the conclusion of the War, she married her second husband, Harry Schwarzschild, who had been a Naval Commander on destroyer duty in the North Atlantic, and moved from New York to Richmond, where she was to spend the rest of her life. There she was very active in the community as a fundraiser, supporter of the arts and numerous social service organizations. She was also a competitive golfer and active tennis enthusiast, avid reader, linguist, world traveler and art collector. She leaves two sons, Laurence C. Leeds, Jr. and William Harry Schwarzschild III, and a daughter, Kathrin Brown. She had 11 grandchildren, Laurence (Cary) Leeds III (deceased), Ashley and Tracy Leeds; Adam, Todd, Elizabeth, Tate, and Catherine Schwarzschild; Caitlin, Cliff and Betsy Brown, as well as six greatgrandchildren: Sam, Michael and Benjamin Harland and Nicolas, Olivia and James Marwell.
        $(6$)SCHWARZSCHILD--Kathryn. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Kathryn Schwarzschild, beloved mother of Laurence C. Leeds, Jr., a cherished friend whose passionate commitment to our Wall Street Division strengthens our ability to serve those in need. We offer our heartfelt condolences to Laurence & his entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)SCHWARZSCHILD -- Kathryn (Kitty) Emsheimer. We recall 60 years of happy times. As Larry and Dalia Leeds, and I grew up, you introduced us to many new adventures in world travel, sports, and cultural activities. You exemplified true patriotism during WWII when you gave yourself a bump on the head to pass the pilots height requirement for the women's Air Force. We love you, Kitty, and we will hold you in our thoughts. Senator Roy M. Goodman
      