
        O'SULLIVAN--Kevin Patrick.Television executive and philanthropist, died on January 9th at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 years old. Mr. O'Sullivan entered the television industry in 1948 as an undergraduate at Queens College, first as a news commentator, then later as an actor and singer, appearing on such shows as ''Your Hit Parade'' and ''This Is Show Business'' among others. In 1952, he starred in the Broadway musical ''Seventeen''. As a television executive Mr. O'Sullivan joined the American Broadcasting Company in 1967, eventually becoming President of two of its subsidiaries, ABC Films, Inc. and ABC International Television, Inc. In 1973 he acquired the assets of ABC Films to create Worldvision Enterprises, a worldwide television distribution company. In 1979 Worldvision merged with Taft Broadcasting and when Taft was acquired by Great American Communications Corporation, he became President and Chief Executive Officer of its Entertainment Group. He later served as Chairman of the board of trustees of the Foundation of the International Council of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. After his retirement Mr. O'Sullivan dedicated himself wholly to the O'Sullivan Children Foundation, which he and his wife Carole started in memory of their children, Kevin, Jr., Colleen, and Terence. Mr. O'Sullivan was born in New York City in 1928 to Patrick and Christina O'Sullivan from County Kerry in Ireland. He is survived by his wife Carole and their daughter Erin Anne. Beloved brother of Brian O'Sullivan, brother of Sheila and Robert Beck, belovedbrother-in-law of Doris and Joseph Baffi, Joan and William Greene, Gayle & Richard Herber, brother-in-law of Elizabeth O'Sullivan. Devoted uncle of William Baffi, Brian and Kathy O'Sullivan, Joseph and Jane Baffi, Christopher and Tara Baffi, Tara O'Sullivan, Jill and Gene Gersbeck, Dawn and Daniel Opinante, Robert and Mary Baffi, Douglas and Christine Herber, Jennifer Herber, Bernadette and Albert Volpe, Thomas Baffi, Glen and Timothy Beck. Loving great-uncle of Kristopher, Jonathan, Nicholas, Mirahe, Dru, Kyle, Gianna, Robert Anthony and Anthony James Baffi, Brittany and Kelsey Opinante, Reily Herber, Sara Moran-Herber Cayden Volpe, Aubrie, Megan and Peter Gersbeck, Daniel and Julia O'Sullivan. Loving son of the deceased Christina and Patrick O'Sullivan. Loving son-in-law of the deceased Marjorie and Harold Christensen. Viewing will be held at Donohue Cecere Funeral Home in Westbury, Long Island, New York on Wednesday, January 11th and Thursday, January 12th from 2:00-4:00 PM and 7:0010:00 PM. The Funeral Mass will be held Friday, January 13 at 10:00 AM at St. Brigid's Roman Catholic Church, Westbury, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to The O'Sullivan Children Foundation, 4 Bridle Path Drive, Old Westbury, NY 11568.
        $(6$)O'SULLIVAN--Kevin P. The administration, trustees and staff of St. Francis Hospital, The Heart Center, in Roslyn, NY, mourn the passing of Kevin P. O'Sullivan, former Chairman and CEO of Worldvision Enterprises, president of the O'Sullivan Children Foundation, and a member of the St. Francis Hospital Board of Trustees from 1990-1995 and an Honorary Trustee thereafter. The St. Francis family also celebrates a remarkable man whose career spanned over a half-century--from child actor to successful television executive to philanthropist-and who radiated warmth, wit and generosity wherever he turned. A man of great talent and achievement, Kevin O'Sullivan also faced unthinkable tragedy with the loss of three children. However, from this loss he and his wife, Carole, drew meaning, purpose and inspiration. Over the years, their foundation has been a generous supporter of St. Francis Hospital, dedicating the O'Sullivan Children's Pediatric Wing in 1991. We will be forever grateful for Kevin's friendship, dedication, and generosity, and we will always be inspired by his example. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Carole, and their daughter, Erin, at this time of loss.
        $(6$)O'SULLIVAN -- Kevin. The Board of Directors of The Mayo Foundation for the Handicapped wish to extend their deepest sympathies to Carole, Erin and the O'Sullivan family on the passing of their beloved Kevin. He was a generous supporter of the Foundation through the O'Sullivan Children Foundation, and he was a cherished friend of Paul O'Dwyer and the entire O'Dwyer family. Dr. William O'Dwyer President
        $(6$)O'SULLIVAN -- Kevin. Holy Child Academy mourns the loss of our brother in Christ and generous friend. May God grant him ''deep peace of the running waves, deep peace of the flowing air, deep peace of the smiling stars, deep peace of the quiet earth, deep peace of the watching shepherds, and deep peace of the Son of Peace.'' (Gaelic blessing) All of us at Holy Child
        $(6$)O'SULLIVAN--Kevin P. A man of great intellect and unqualified compassion. A rare individual. Neil M. Delman
      