
        KAYES--Alan. Distinguished World War II veteran, business leader in the field of classical recorded music and patron of the arts, died on January 16 at Central Suffolk Hospital in Riverhead. Mr. Kayes was 93. Mr. Kayes was married to Helen Dunlap who died in 1974. In 1978, he married Cecily Elmes Crawford who was one of the youngest female pilots in the Women's Air Force Service during World War II. Alan and Cecily Kayes were active in community and local affairs both in New York City and the Hamptons, were tireless volunteers for various philanthropies and travelled extensively worldwide. Cecily Kayes died in 2004. Mr. Kayes was born in Brooklyn and was a resident of New York City until his retirement from RCA Records in 1978. He retired to Water Mill, later moved to Southampton and moved two years ago to Peconic Landing in Greenport. He attended Penn State. Shortly after college Mr. Kayes began work in public relations at the Metropolitan Opera. This experience in public relations led to an assignment in 1942 in the Army Press Corp. Mr. Kayes served in India, Burma and in China with the Mars Task Force, the successors to Merrill's Marauders, and ultimately served under General George Stilwell in his Headquarters. After the war, Mr. Kayes covered the Japanese War Crime Trials as Press Officer in Shanghai. At the request of the Chairman of the RCA Corporation, General David Sarnoff, Mr. Kayes was mustered out of the army in 1946 to head A&R for RCA Records' highly esteemed RCA Victor Red Seal label imprint. During the 1950s and 1960s, he brought the label to preeminence based on his close working relations with major artists such as Jascha Heifetz, Vladimir Horowitz, William Kapell, Mario Lanza, Leontyne Price, Arthur Rubinstein, Cesare Valletti and Van Cliburn, and renowned conductors such as Arturo Toscanini, Fritz Reiner and Charles Munch. Many industry observers consider Mr. Kayes to have been one of the last great lions of the recorded music industry from that era. Mr. Kayes completed his professional career at RCA Records in the 1970s with its direct marketing group known as RCA Music Service. This business has evolved to become the present day BMG Columbia House, which is the world's largest direct-to-theconsumer marketer of music and movies. The success of this business is due in large measure to Mr. Kayes' precedent setting deal-making in connnection with intellectual property rights and his leadership in government and legislative affairs, which was instrumental in creating a favorable regulatory environment. During his retirement, Mr. Kayes remained active in community affairs in East Hampton, Water Mill, Southampton and, most recently, in Greenport. He was also a successful syndicated columnist with numerous articles on the art scene, local politics and local events being widely published in East End papers. Mr. Kayes is survived by stepdaughters Lillian Aronow of Miami, FL and Elizabeth Crawford of West Amwell, NJ, stepson James Crawford of Waukesha, WI and former charge, Florienne Ho Benagh of Sparta, NJ. A memorial service will be held in April in Greenport, NY at an exact date, time and location to be announced. In Mr. Kayes' memory, it is requested that donations be made either to The Brecknock Hall Foundation, 1500 Brecknock Road, Greenport, NY 11944 or to The Rogers Memorial Library, 91 Coopers Farm Road, Southampton, NY 11968.
      