
        STERN--Howard S. The Board of Directors, Executives and entire staff of EZ-EM, Inc. mourn the loss of Howard S. Stern, co-founder, director and Chairman Emeritus. Mr. Stern passed away on December 28, 2005 after losing a brave battle with brain cancer. He was 74. Mr. Stern was a pioneer in the field of gastrointestinal imaging. Mr. Stern co-founded EZ-EM in 1962 to develop and market the first unit-dose product to virtually eliminate cross-contamination during the administration of barium sulfate contrast media. Mr. Stern was the holder of several patents. Mr. Stern would dedicate his life to the development of products that improved the diagnosis and treatment of GI disease. During his more than 40 years of leadership with E-Z-EM, he helped introduce a series of important innovations to the field, and in the process established the Company as a recognized name among radiologists around the world. Mr. Stern served as a director of E-Z-EM from the Company's founding until his passing, and also served as the Company's Chairman of the Board from its founding until December 2004, when he was named Chairman Emeritus. Mr. Stern also served as Chief Executive Officer from the Company's founding until 1990, as President and Chief Executive Officer from 1990 to 1994, and again from 1997 to 2000. At his death, Mr. Stern was also a director of AngioDynamics, Inc., which he cofounded in 1988 as a division of E-Z-EM. He served as the Chairman of the Board of AngioDynamics from that Company's founding until 2004, when it was spun off to E-ZEM shareholders. He was also instrumental in the founding and development of Surgical Dynamics, which was sold to U.S. Surgical in 1996. In 2001, in recognition of his life's work, he was honored with a special award by the Society of Gastrointestinal Radiologists (SGR) ''in appreciation for his generous support and dedication to the educational mission of the Society.'' Mr. Stern was also active in many charitable causes, particularly at The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he endowed a fellowship chair at the School of Chemical Engineering Practice, and supported the Center for Cancer Research. He also was the founding donor of the Center for Patient Partnerships at the University of WisconsinMadison, and also served on the board of trustees of the Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation. In honor of his father, he established the Isadore N. Stern Scholarship of the American Society of Radiologic Technologists (ASRT) Education and Research Foundation. Mr. Stern received a Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering in 1953 and a Master of Science in Chemical Engineering in 1954, both from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). He also served as a Lieutenant in the United States Navy from 1955-1958. He is survived by his wife Linda, his children Rachel and Seth, his son-inlaw Peter and his daughterin-law Trisha, and his grandchildren William, Madeleine, and Alexander. Mr. Stern will be long remembered as a true visionary and leader in the field of medical imaging. His desire to improve the methods for the screening and diagnosis of colon cancer was relentless, and his passion to encourage everyone to be screened was never ending. He was a guiding light for all who had the privilege to work with him at E-Z-EM. For over 40 years, this Company grew under his stewardship to become an industry leader and play an important role in advancing treatments for cancer and other diseases of the digestive tract. Mr. Stern's passing is a great personal loss to all of us at E-ZEM, who lost a colleague, a friend, and a mentor. We celebrate his life and are committed to continuing his legacy. He left the world a better place due to his numerous contributions. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Stern family.
      