
        NUSSBAUM--Toby A. Age 66, died January 3, 2006 in New York after a lengthy struggle with pancreatic cancer. To the very end, she lived her life to the fullest, with grace, with dignity, with courage, with beauty and, most of all, with love. Toby was born on May 6, 1939. She grew up in Keene, New Hampshire and graduated from Brandeis University in 1960. While in college, she met her future husband Bernie Nussbaum, who was then a law school student. They married in June 1963 and had three children, Emily, Peter and Frank. Peter married Alexis Tannenbaum and they have two children, Wylie and Levi. Emily married Clive Thompson, and a week before Toby died Emily gave birth to her first child, Gabriel Ezra. Toby was aware of Gabriel's birth and was able to meet him, to her great delight. Toby had two brothers, Jay and Bob Sheinfeld, with whom she was very close, as she was with their spouses, Peggy and Susan, and her nieces, Jennifer, Rebecca, Gwen and Daryl. Toby was also a beloved member of Bernie's extended family, including his mother Molly, his brothers, Albert and Martin, their spouses and children, and Bernie's numerous cousins. When Bernie served as Counsel to the President of the United States in 1993 and 1994, Toby was a tower of strength and, in her own right, a respected and popular figure in Washington. All of her adult life Toby was active in political, community and philanthropic affairs. She was a finance chairman for Congresswoman Nita Lowey in her first race for Congress in 1988. She was selected as an elector in 1992 and voted in the Electoral College for President Clinton. She was an officer of the Westchester County Democratic Party. Toby served on the Board of Trustees of Brandeis University and Westchester Community College. She was deeply involved with UJA-Federation of New York, the Metropolitan Council for Jewish Poverty, the Jewish Community Relations Council, and the America-Israel Cultural Foundation. She served as an officer of her synagogue, Temple Israel Center of White Plains. For many years, she sang in Carnegie Hall as a member of the chorus of the New York Oratorio Society. At her homes in New York and Connecticut, she was a warm and engaging hostess. She was a wonderful and devoted friend to so many. Her husband, her children and her precious grandchildren were the joys of her life. And she was the joy of their lives. She will live forever in their memories and in the memories of so many others. Funeral services will be held on Thursday, January 5, 2006 at 12 noon at Temple Israel Center, 280 Old Mamaroneck Road, White Plains, NY (914 948 - 2800)(www.templeisrae lcenter.org). Contributions may be made in her memory to UJA-Federation of New York, 130 East 59th Street, New York 10022. Goodbye Toby. We will always love you. The Nussbaum Family Bernie Nussbaum Emily, Peter, Frank, Alexis and Clive, Wylie, Levi and Gabriel
        NUSSBAUM--Toby. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Toby Nussbaum, a cherished leader and friend, whose lifelong commitment to the Jewish community and the State of Israel was marked by warmth, wisdom, and boundless generosity. Toby's passionate involvement in our Women's Campaign and missions program, as well as her leadership in our network of agencies, were shining examples of her unwavering dedication to klal Yisrael. Toby shared that enthusiasm with her beloved husband, Bernie, an esteemed community leader, strengthening millions of lives through their deep devotion to numerous humanitarian causes. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Bernie, to their children and grandchildren, and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        NUSSBAUM--Toby. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Toby Nussbaum, wife of Bernie Nussbaum, a member of JTS's Board of Trustees. In keeping with Toby's insatiable desire to be of service, she herself was a member of the JTS Board in 1993 and 1994. Toby was outspoken and charismatic, dedicated to goodness and justice, and respected by all. Her truly great and lifelong romance with Bernie was a model of sweetness and deep affection. Toby's energy and gracious style will forever be a part of her heroic legacy. May all her family be comforted by those at JTS who mourn with them. Ismar Schorsch, Chancellor Gershon Kekst, Board Chairman
        NUSSBAUM--Toby A. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center mourn the passing of Toby A. Nussbaum, beloved wife of Bernard Nussbaum, an esteemed member of our Boards of Trustees. Together with her husband, Toby Nussbaum supported scientific research and important medical programs at Mount Sinai. Toby Nussbaum will be remembered with gratitude for her loyalty and thoughtful generosity. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire Nussbaum family at this difficult time. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., President and CEO
        NUSSBAUM -- Toby. How amazingly full of vitality you were. How much we all learned from your bravery. As Janet, who also succumbed to cancer, and predeceased you by barely five weeks, said shortly after you were both diagnosed: ''Toby, I think this is carrying friendship too far.'' But that was impossible. For both of you, love, loyalty, and family were the hallmarks of your lives. We shall miss you terribly. Allan Gardner, Kim and Andrew Gardner, Elisabeth and Jeffrey Ostrow
        NUSSBAUM -- Toby. Active Board Member, loyal friend, ardent supporter of the arts in Israel, valiant fighter of her health. We honored her in recognition of her achievements. Our fondest thoughts go out to Bernie and the entire family. We will miss her. On behalf of the Board. America-Israel Cultural Foundation William A. Schwartz President Vera Stern Chair of the Board
        NUSSBAUM--Toby. The Federal Bar Council community records with great sadness the loss of Toby Nussbaum, wife of our former President, Bernie Nussbaum. Toby was a steadfast, devoted, and beloved friend of the Council. We will miss her warmth and charm at the Council's activities. We extend our deepest sympathy to Bernie and his family. Joan G. Wexler, President
        NUSSBAUM--Toby. A truly remarkable woman, both generous in spirit and perceptive in mind. There were so many close friends who loved her dearly. How lucky we were to have her. Our deepest sympathy to Bernie and to her adoring family. Diane and Arthur Abbey
        NUSSBAUM -- Toby. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Toby Nussbaum, and extend sincere condolences to her family. Charles J. Block, President
        NUSSBAUM -- Toby. We mourn the death of Toby Nussbaum, beloved, extraordinary and courageous wife of our dear friend and Board member Bernard Nussbaum. Neil Karbank, Chair Humanity in Action
        NUSSBAUM -- Toby. You were so couragous & always gracious. We will miss you. Joanne and Yaacov Ben-Avi
      