
        FRANK--Sidney E. New York Medical College mourns the passing of our benefactor and friend Sidney E. Frank. His life was an extraordinary example of how one individul's struggle to overcome adversity can mature into a life long commitment to helping others through philanthropy. Mr. Frank's gift to the college last year marked a pinnacle, enabling us to develop new educational and re search programs in disasterrelated psychiatric trauma. His generosity and spirit will live on as The Sidney E. Frank Distinguished Professorship in Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences. It will contribute immeasurably to the many students, residents and faculty that we train and the patients we can serve through his support. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family and colleagues. Ronald F. Poe, Chairman Board of Trustees Rev Msgr Harry C. Barrett President and CEO Ralph A. O'Connell, M.D. Provost and Dean School of Medicine
        $(6$)FRANK--Sidney. The Robinhood Foundation mourns the passing of Sidney Frank, an extraordinary friend whose generosity and compassion saved lives and changed the fates of thousands of New York City's poorest families. His incredible support of Robinhood and other causes helped to educate, feed, house and protect people in need. We will always cherish his sharp wit, infectious energy and his insightful words-''People shouldn't have to rely on chance for a better life.'' We wish to convey our heartfelt condolences to Marian, Cathy and Matthew, as well as his family, friends and dedicated staff.
        $(6$)FRANK--Sidney E. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Sidney E. Frank, whose commitment and generosity strengthened our ability to serve those in need and enriched the New York Jewish community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)FRANK--Sidney E. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Sidney E. Frank. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Marian, and to the entire family. Patricia Sumergrade, Pres. Richard J. Bronstein, Secy.
        $(6$)FRANK--Sidney. You were my mentor, confidante and best friend for over 30 years. I will miss you very much. My heartfelt condolences to your entire family. Jonathan Spitalny
      