
        VOGEL--George S., M.D. Died peacefully in his sleep on Thursday, January 26, 2006. For the past five years he resided at Edgehill in Stamford, CT. Born in Brooklyn, May 22, 1912, the second of four children, George was the first son of Sigmund and Bessie Vogel. He earned his B.S. Degree from New York University in 1933, followed by his M.D. in 1936 from the University of Hamburg Medical School. While in Hamburg, George met his future wife, Franzi Leopold, at the Artists' Costume Ball. After graduation from the University of Hamburg, George returned to Brooklyn, with Franzi following six months later, leaving Nazi Germany behind. After returning from Germany, the young Dr. Vogel was a medical officer in the U.S. Army and the C.C.C. from 1939 to 1943. He then moved to Croton-on-Hudson, where he developed a thriving practice in family medicine. George became a charter Diplomate of the American Board of Family Practice when Family Medicine became the twentieth medical specialty, and remained a fellow in the Academy of Family Practice until his retirement from active practice in 1979. An integral and dedicated part of the community, he served for more than twenty years as the town's school physician, as both the police and fire department surgeons, and as the doctor, coordinator and trainer for the ambulance corps; he was honored as Croton's Man of the Year in 1976. He was also the physician for New York Central Railroad (NYC to Albany line) and served as medical director of several nursing homes in northern Westchester and as Chief of Medicine at Phelps Memorial Hospital, Tarrytown, NY. In the first twenty-five years of his practice, he delivered over 1000 babies. Upon his retirement from obstetrics, he created a scholarship for Croton-Harmon High School students who wished to pursue studies in a field of medicine. George served as a president of B'nai Brith in Croton. Along with Franzi, he was an instrumental founder of Temple Israel of Northern Westchester, holding the congregation's first services in the living room of their home. Temple Israel is still thriving after more than fifty years. Outside of his passion for medicine, George was an avid and dedicated gardener. But he was proudest of his Orvis degree in trout fishing, which hung on the wall in his office alongside of his medical degrees. Surviving him are his wife Franzi, his daughter Susie Shelsky, son Michael, son-in-law Seymour Shelsky, daughter-in-law Beth, grandson Peter Shelsky, granddaughter - in - law Barbara Shelsky and sister Estelle Gurin. He left us still in love with Franzi, his girlfriend of 71 years and wife of 67. A funeral service was held Friday, January 27, 2006. Memorial contributions may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, NY, NY 10021 or the World Jewish Congress, 501 Madison Avenue, 17th fl, NY, NY 10022.
      