
        SILVERMAN--Morris (a/a Marty)/d. A true visionary he was born in 1912 in Troy, N.Y. to Eastern European immigrants of modest means; he worked without interruption from boyhood through his 93rd year. He bravely served his country in World War II entering the U.S. Army as a Private and retiring as a Major. As an infantry man he earned two Purple Hearts, two Bronze Stars, a Silver Star, four Battle Stars, and a Combat Infantry Badge. He then served as a lawyer assisting in the prosecution of Nazi war criminals. Together with his late wife Dorothy, he founded and grew a number of finance companies including National Equipment Rental which went public in the sixties. The company successfully pursued a case to the U.S. Supreme Court, where the principles it established became a cornerstone of jurisdictional law. Believing passionately in his responsibility to give back, he founded the Marty and Dorothy Silverman Foundation. He was particularly proud to be able to assist in the establishment of the Jewish Chapel at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, a Chair at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, and support of bold initiatives at The Hebrew Home for the Aged, The Jewish Braille Institute, Chaim Sheba Medical Center in Israel and numerous non-profit agencies serving the elderly and at risk children. As part of his legacy of giving the 'gift of giving' to others, he conceived of FJC, a Foundation of Donor Advised Funds, which offers a wide range of innovative options to donors, non profit agencies and financial partners. He was officially recognized by New York State for his philanthropic achievements. He is survived by his three children, daughter-inlaw, nine grandchildren, granddaughter-in-law, great grandchild and a devoted companion, all of whom love him sooooo. He will be long remembered and sorely missed. Memorial service 10:45 AM, Sunday January 29, Ansche Chesed, West End Avenue & 100th St. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to FJC, 520 8th Ave, NYC 10018 (888-GIVE FJC).
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Marty. The Board and staff of DOROT are deeply saddened by the loss of our devoted and loyal benefactor, Marty Silverman. Marty, with his son Lorin, helped lay the foundation of our organization and continued to nurture it lovingly for more than two decades. Thousands of frail and isolated DOROT elderly have reaped the benefits of the Silverman creativity, vision and unstinting generosity. Always shunning the limelight, Marty leaves a shining beacon of good deeds and countless blessings, which will radiate for generations to come. We will sorely miss his warmth, unquenchable humor and great wisdom. Our hearts go out to Lorin, Patti, Seth and Allison and the entire Silverman family. Vivian Fenster Ehrlich Executive Director Paula Resnick and Phil Silverman Co-Presidents Joel Kazis and Anne Heyman Co-Chairs and the entire Board of Directors and staff of DOROT
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Morris. The entire Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale family has lost a great friend, visionary and champion. For over twenty years, Marty graciously gave his time, incredible counsel and support to assure the Hebrew Home's continuing leadership in the field of care for the elderly. Embracing the highest level of tzedakah, Marty was truly one of a kind, and although he was ''anonymous,'' he was indelible. We will miss him greatly and extend our sincere condolences to his children, Lorin, Patty (Lipshutz), Carol, Joan; grandchildren, Marc, Ama, Fae, Garey, Jeremy, Marna, David, Allison and Seth; and great-grandchild, Abigail. May you be comforted among the mourners of Zion. The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale Jeffrey S. Maurer, Chairman Daniel Reingold President and CEO
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Morris. The entire Reingold Family grieves the loss of this very special man. Marty was brilliant, funny, wise, generous and warm. His creativity and energy were formidable and he used them to make the world so much better. He was an incredible teacher, leaving three generations who understand the importance of using their unique skills and talents to continue on the journey he started. He was the greatest of the greatest generation. He was an American hero, and our hero too. We hope that Lorin, Patty, Carol, Joan and the entire Silverman family and longtime companion Georgie will be comforted by the happy memories of this truly remarkable man. Daniel Reingold and Family
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Morris. American ORT mourns the passing of Morris (Marty) Silverman. We extend deepest condolences to the Silverman family. Hope Kessler, Exec. Director Joe Cohen, President Robert L. Sill, Chairman of the Board Herbert W. Ackerman, Chairman, Exec. Committee
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Morris (Marty). Marty was a truly great man-WWII hero, extraordinary businessman, generous philanthropist, and loving and beloved friend. I will miss him and extend my condolences to Lorin and the other members of his bereaved family. Rose Dobrof
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Marty. Human Rights First extends its condolences to the family of Marty Silverman, loving father, model citizen, philanthropist and humanitarian.
      