
        CHESWICK--Richard R. The founder of Cheswick Investment and a resident of Darien, CT and Hobe Sound, FL died Sunday, January 8th in Greenwich, CT. Born July 5, 1924, he was the son of Harold Beck Cheswick and Dorcas Louise Cheswick of Rockville Center, NY. After graduation from Southside High School in Rockville Center, Mr. Cheswick joined the U.S. Army Air Corps and flew 29 missions over Europe as navigator of a B-17 Flying Fortress. As Lead Navigator, he skillfully guided up to 2,000 aircraft on daylight strategic bombing missions targeting high value industrial sites. Mr. Cheswick achieved the rank of Captain and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for heroism and extraordinary achievement while participating in aerial flight. After being honorably discharged, Mr. Cheswick graduated from Harvard University in 1948 and afterward earned an MBA from New York University. In 1948, Mr. Cheswick married Ruth Ann Roberts of Utica, NY and later settled in Darien, CT. Mr. Cheswick's love for investing began at age eleven and continued throughout his career. Following his passion for investment counsel, he started his own successful business in 1970. He avidly pursued his investment research and counsel to the benefit of generations of his clients. He was a member of Wee Burn Country Club of Darien; The Jupiter Island Club and Hobe Sound Yacht Club in Hobe Sound, FL; The Everglades Club of Palm Beach, FL;The Sankaty Head Club of Nantucket, MA and the Harvard Club of New York City. He is survived by his wife of 58 years and his three children, William Roberts Cheswick of Bernardsville, NJ, Susan Cheswick Brewer of Darien and Carol Cheswick Ross of Darien; five grandchildren, and two adoring terriers. A memorial service will be held at the First Congregational Church of Darien, 14 Brookside Rd, January 13th at 11:30. Interment will be at Arlington National Cemetery, with full military honors. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the Darien Library Building Fund.
        $(6$)CHESWICK--Richard R. ''You bravely fought the good fight for decades with your unusual wit, whimsy and humor. You have stood your last roll call. I stand at attention and salute you in this your last 'fly-by.' Hold a slot for me.'' Alan Wolfley
      