
        RUBIN -- William S. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of our longtime friend and colleague Bill Rubin, director emeritus of the Museum's Department of Painting and Sculpture. Rubin began his career at MoMA in 1967, after sixteen years as a professor of art history at Sarah Lawrence College and the Graduate School of the City University of New York. One year later, he was named Chief Curator of the painting and sculpture collection, and in 1973, Director of the Department of Painting and Sculpture, a position that he held until 1988. The first exhibition that Bill organized after joining MoMA was the influential Dada, Surrealism, and their Heritage (1968). It would be followed by many important and now famous exhibitions of classic modernism, including Cezanne: The Late Work (1977), Pablo Picasso: A Retrospective (1980), De Chirico (1982), ''Primitivism'' in 20th Century Art (1984), Picasso and Braque: Pioneering Cubism (1989), and Picasso and Portraiture (1996). Additionally, he organized retrospectives of the work of contemporary artists Frank Stella, Anthony Caro, and Ad Reinhardt. Equally important were the many additions to the collection that Bill secured. These ranged from the radical sheet-metal Guitar of 1912, which he obtained as a gift of Pablo Picasso, to other icons of the collection, including Joan Miro's The Birth of the World, Henri Matisse's Memory of Oceania, Jackson Pollock's One: Number 31, 1950, and Barnett Newman's Vir Heroicus Sublimus. Additionally, Bill brought to the Museum a number of important private collections, among them, those of Sidney and Harriet Janis, Mary Sisler, and Louise Smith. And he himself generously donated a number of works to the Museum, most notably David Smith's sculpture, Australia. Bill's passion for and commitment to the Museum and its collections were legendary. As the de facto successor to Alfred H. Barr, Jr., in the development and installation of the collection of painting and sculpture, he defined the understanding of modern art at the Museum for over two decades, and was widely understood to be the greatest art historian and curator of modern art of his generation. In recognition of his achievements, he was made Knight of the Legion of Honor in 1978, Commander of the Order of Arts and Letters in 1979, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Fine Arts and Sciences in 1985. We extend our sympathies to his wife, Phyllis Hattis, their daughter, Beata, and to his brothers Richard and Larry. Bill will be sorely missed, but the immeasurable impact of his contribution to art history and especially to The Museum of Modern Art will be apparent for generations to come. David Rockefeller, Honorary Chairman Ronald S. Lauder, Chairman Emeritus Agnes Gund, President Emerita Robert B. Menschel, Chairman Marie-Jose Kravis, President Glenn D. Lowry, Director Leon D. Black, Chairman, Trustee Committee on Painting and Sculpture John Elderfield, The Marie-Jose and Henry Kravis Chief Curator of Painting and Sculpture The Museum of Modern Art, NY $(6$)RUBIN--William S. The art world has lost a giant. We have lost a treasured friend. Our hearts go out to his devoted wife Phyllis, and daughter Beate. Samuel and Ronnie Heyman
      