
        SONDHEIMER -- Manfred Moses Tobias of New York City. Born in Frankfurt, Germany, beloved husband of Ruth (nee Darmstadter), died Sunday at age 91. Survived by his loving children and their spouses Adrian and Fern Sondheimer and Daniela and Steven Klein, adoring grandchildren Barak, Alexa, Jordana, Ilan, Tavor, and Gil, loving siblings and spouses Eric and Lottie Joan, Fred and Linda, Marion and Robert. He was the beloved stepfather of Ernest Grunebaum and Eve Propp and step grandfather and great grandfather of Douglas, Rodney, Jamie Propp and their children. He was an extraordinary, highly learned, dear man who enjoyed life, challenged and brought out the best in all of us, taught us to be respectful with all people and loving of our Jewish heritage and generous family traditions. We will miss him immensely. Funeral is at 12:30 Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st and Amsterdam Avenue. Visiting starts 2 PM daily. Charitable donations encouraged.
        $(6$)SONDHEIMER -- Manfred. The officers and employees of Hugo Neu Corporation, its affiliates and the John L. Neu family are deeply saddened by the passing of Manfred Sondheimer, a former Vice President of Hugo Neu Corporation. Manfred energetically and effectively served the company and the Neu family for over half a century, working with vim and vigor until his 87th birthday four years ago. He was greatly respected by his colleagues in the metals industry throughout the world. We will greatly miss his intellect, engaging personality, willingness to share his extensive knowledge, and enthusiasm for discussing moral precepts and applying them to his daily life. Our sincere condolences to his dear wife Ruth and all of the members of Manfred's and Ruth's family.
        $(6$)SONDHEIMER -- Manfred. The Board of Directors and staff of Selfhelp Community Services and United Health mourn the passing of a loyal friend, Manfred Sondheimer. Mr. Sondheimer's committment to Selfhelp's mission, especially our services for victims of Nazi persecution enable Selfhelp to provide compassionate care to thousands of elderly New Yorkers. We extend our deepest sympathy to his brother, Eric S. Sondheimer, currently a Board member of both Self help and United Health and his entire family.
        $(6$)SONDHEIMER--Manfred. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the husband of our member, Ruth Sondheimer. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood
      