
        FEIL--Gertrude (nee Cohen). Beloved mother of Marilyn, Stanley, Judy, Harvey, Carole, Jeffrey and Lee. Grandmother of 12 and greatgrandmother of 12. Her love and devotion will be missed forever. Services on Friday, January 6 at 11:30 A.M., Temple B'nai Sholom, 100 Hempstead Avenue, Rockville Centre, L.I. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the Louis & Gertrude Feil Scholarship Fund, Weill Cornell Medical Center, 525 East 68 Street, Box 123, New York, New York 10021.
        $(6$)FEIL--Gertrude. The entire Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a longtime cherished friend, wife of the late Louis Feil, of blessed memory, a founding member of the Board of the Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology. Her genuine warmth, kindness, compassion, wisdom and unstinting generosity made her a true ''Woman of Valor''. With her family, she helped to advance and enhance research and training in the fields of medicine, law, psychology, general and Judaic studies and rabbinic scholarship across the breadth of our institution. Foremost was her love for-and her deep pride in--her wonderful family, who continue the Feil family's legacy of love for humanity, the Jewish people, and its heritage. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her children, Jeffrey, esteemed member of the YU Board of Trustees, and Lee Feil, YU Guardians; Marilyn and Stanley Barry; Judith and Harvey Jaffe; and Carol Feil; and to her many grandchildren & great-grandchildren. May they all be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Yeshiva University Richard M. Joel, President Norman Lamm, Chancellor Morry J. Weiss, Chairman Board of Trustees
        $(6$)FEIL--Gertrude. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Gertrude Feil, a treasured leader and friend. The Feil family's passionate concern for humanitarian causes is marked by an unwavering dedication to education, hospitals, and the Jewish community. Gertrude, together with her beloved late husband Louis, were deeply committed to our network of agencies and enriched millions of lives through their generosity and vision. That profound legacy continues on in the philanthropic leadership of the entire family, who strengthen our ability to serve those in need in New York, in Israel, and around the world. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Gertrude's sister, Estelle, and her husband, Martin Moss; to her children: Jeffrey and his wife, Lee; to Marilyn and her husband, Stanley Barry; to Judith and her husband, Harvey Jaffe; to Carol Feil; to her grandchildren and great grandchildren; and to the entire family. Morris W. Offit, President Susan K. Stern, Chair of the Board John S. Ruskay, Exec. V.P. & C.E.O.
        $(6$)FEIL--Gertrude. Yeshiva Toras Chaim of Greater New York at South Shore express deep sadness at the passing of Mrs. Gertrude Feil, beloved wife of the late Louis Feil, and devoted mother of Marilyn, Carole, Judy and Jeffrey. A woman of valor, virtue and kindness; the matriarch of this distinguished family exemplified love and concern for Jewish education and continuity. Rabbi B. Kamenetzky Dean Emeritus Rabbi M. Kamenetzky, Dean Shmuel Katz Executive Director
        $(6$)FEIL -- Gertrude. Temple B'nai Sholom mourns the loss of our beloved, cherished, longtime member. She will be sorely missed. May the bereaved family find solace and consolation amongst all mourners in Israel. Funeral Temple B'nai Sholom, Friday, January 6, 2006, 11:30 AM.
        $(6$)FEIL--Gertrude. The employees of Century Operating Corp. note with profound sorrow the passing of Gertrude Feil. To her family, we extend our heartfelt sympathy. Century Operating Corp.
        $(6$)FEIL--Gertrude. To our dear friend, Jeffrey Feil, expresssing our heartfelt condolences to you, and your entire family, on the loss of your beloved mother. Susan and Jay Anderson
        $(6$)FEIL--Gertrude. Marilyn, Judy, Carole and Jeffrey expressing our heartfelt condolences to each of you and your families on the loss of your beloved mother. Liliane and Andrew Ratner
        $(6$)FEIL--Gertrude. To our beloved aunt who was like a second mother to us. We love you and will miss you. You will always be in our hearts. Joanne Feil, Edward Feil and Gloria Turetz
        $(6$)FEIL--Gertrude. Deborah and Marty and all the Bernstein's extend their condolences to Jeffrey, his siblings, all the grandchildren and great grandchildren.
        $(6$)FEIL--Gertrude. Dear Gertrude, you were always a loving and caring part of our family. We will always remember and love you. Love, Yvette and Seymour
        $(6$)FEIL--Gertrude. We mourn the loss of our friend and send our condolences to the Feil family. Gloria & Seymour Baum
        $(6$)FEIL--Gertrude. Jeffrey,with deep sorrow we extend our condolences on the passing of your loving mother. Barbara and Arthur Lerner
      