
        BRONFMAN - Andrea. We deeply grieve the untimely passing of Andrea Bronfman, a woman whose life embodied the principles of Zionism and Clal Yisrael. Her creativity and generosity benefited the American Jewish community, the relatives of those who died in the World Trade Center attacks, and Israel's artistic community, to name just a few of those touched by her. We send our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, children, grandchildren and the entire Bronfman and Morrison families on their profound loss. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. June Walker National President Morlie Levin National Executive Director Hadassah, The Women's Zionist Organization of America
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. It is with extreme sadness that the Association of Israel's Decorative Arts (AIDA) mourns the loss of Andrea (Andy) Bronfman. AIDA was founded in 2003 with the goal of nurturing the careers of emerging decorative artists from Israel and was built on three key elements: a passion for the arts, working together as a team, and caring for one another...these were all Andy's great talents. Andy formed a particularly strong bond with AIDA's artists. Each artist became a part of an extended family and like family, Andy celebrated each artist's achievements with the pride of a mother. Andy, we love you. We miss you. The AIDA Family Dale and Doug Anderson, Co-Chairs
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Brandeis University community mourns the tragic loss of Andrea Bronfman, beloved wife of our esteemed Trustee, Charles Bronfman. Andrea was a remarkable woman, who made major contributions to the Jewish people, to Israel and to the arts during her lifetime. She will be missed by all who knew her. We extend our deepest sympathies to her husband Charles and the entire family. Jehuda Reinharz, President Brandeis University Stephen B. Kay, Chairman Board of Trustees
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The board, members and staff of the Natan Fund mourn the sudden loss of our supporter, friend and mentor, Andrea Bronfman. Andy and her husband Charles created a model for philanthropic generosity and creativity that challenged and inspired us-and that will endure for generations. May her memory be for a blessing.
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Andrea Bronfman, and extends sincere sympathy to her husband and other members of her family. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. We mourn the tragic death of Andy Bronfman whom we came to know through her visionary founding of AIDA, the Association of Israel's decorative Artists. We extend our sympathy to Charles and the entire family. Anita and Ronald Wornick
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. Jack Resnick & Sons, Inc. and the entire Resnick family mourns the sudden and tragic loss of Andrea Bronfman. We extend our deepest sympathies to her husband, Charles, and her entire family. Jack Resnick & Sons, Inc.
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea Morrison. May her family and friends be comforted. INTERNS FOR PEACE
      