
        McGILL--Claire. Claire Delano Whitmore McGill died on December 5, 2005, at her daughter's home in Asbury Park NJ. Beloved mother, grandmother, aunt and friend, Claire is remembered for her intellect, wit and sense of humor. Outspoken, always spirited and a valued advocate, her courage inspired many while her devotion to family and civic causes remained constant throughout her life. Graduating from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1939, Claire was a member of Chi Omega Sorority and elected to Alpha Kappa Gamma the women's Honorary Fraternity. Two Master's Degrees in English and Counseling were earned at Columbia University Teachers College where Claire was a member of Kappa Delta Pi, the Honor Society in Education. During World War II, Claire served in the US Naval Reserves as a Communications Watch Officer, Comfair, in Quonset Pt. RI. A member of the Coding Board, Claire received a Letter of Commendation and Victory Medal WWII. After completing her Naval tour and marrying Harold Dugdale, Claire was a reporter and wrote a weekly column ''Know Your Government'' for the Alaska Sunday Press in Juneau. Returning to the New York area after her divorce from Mr. Dugdale, Claire taught English in NYC and was a Guidance Counselor for 17 years in Leonia, NJ. The late Edward McGill, Claire's second husband, died in 1987. In retirement Claire was an avid letter writer, world traveler and a member of Women's Clubs in New Rochelle NY, Millburn and Maplewood NJ. Claire is a descendant of John & Priscilla Alden and William Brewster of The Mayflower, Colonel Daniel Whitmore of the American Revolution and great granddaughter of the late Rev. Edward Ayer, Chaplain of the Connecticut Senate. Her late father, Ralph Delano Whitmore, a cousin of Franklin Delano Roosevelt and the poet Emily Dickinson, shared an Academy Award for improvements in Cinemascope when working for 20th Century Fox. Claire is survived by her daughter Betsy Old, grandson Forrest R. Old III and son-in-law Michael Nash; sisters-in-law Bernadine Whitmore and Peggy Whitmore and eight nieces and nephews. Claire's lifelong love of learning, and dedication to education, inspired her to donate her body to The NJ Medical College. A memorial service will be held in Sunderland Mass. where her family has lived for over 200 years. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be sent to: The Meridian Hospice Foundation, 4900 Route 33, Suite 200, Neptune, NJ 07753.
      