
        DAMASHEK--Philip M. The New York Law School community mourns the passing of Philip M. Damashek, longtime member of our Board of Trustees, and managing partner of Schneider, Kleinick, Weitz, Damashek & Shoot (The Cochran Firm), at one time the largest personal injury law firm in Manhattan. An extraordinary lawyer, his contributions to the profession extended beyond the many victories on behalf of his clients. He served on the governing boards of several bar associations, including the Jewish Lawyers Guild, and was a former president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association, which bestowed on him its premier Lifetime Achievement Award. A devoted public servant, Mr. Damashek served on numerous committees and commissions addressing important issues of judicial administration, including judicial compensation, the use of cameras in the courtroom, and the case management system. It was with great pride that New York Law School honored him in 2000 with its Lifetime Achievement Award. Mr. Damashek and his son Jonathan both attended our school. We extend our condolences to his wife Judith and children Alan, Jonathan, and Harris, and his sister Sandra. Arthur N. Abbey Chairman of the Board of Trustees Richard A. Matasar Dean and President
        $(6$)DAMASHEK--Philip M. The partners, associates and employees of Schneider, Kleinick, Weitz and Damashek mourn the passing of our esteemed founding partner, Philip M. Damashek. Our deepest sympathies and condolences to Judy, Alan, Harris and Jonathan. For more than a generation, Phil selflessly provided vision and leadership to the trial bar. We who were privileged to witness his tireless efforts on behalf of the disabled, deprived and disenfranchised will always honor his memory. Harvey Weitz Arnold Kleinick Ivan Schneider
        $(6$)DAMASHEK--Philip M. The New York City Trial Lawyers mourns the loss of our esteemed Board member and friend, Phil Damashek, and extend our heartfelt condolences to the Damashek family. Besides zealously representing his clients, Phil was a champion for lawyers' causes and will be sorely missed by his colleagues. Andrea Hill, President
      