
        O'SULLIVAN--Kevin Patrick.Television executive and philanthropist, died on January 9th at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 years old. Mr. O'Sullivan entered the television industry in 1948 as an undergraduate at Queens College, first as a news commentator, then later as an actor and singer, appearing on such shows as ''Your Hit Parade'' and ''This Is Show Business'' among others. In 1952, he starred in the Broadway musical ''Seventeen''. As a television executive Mr. O'Sullivan joined the American Broadcasting Company in 1967, eventually becoming President of two of its subsidiaries, ABC Films, Inc. and ABC International Television, Inc. In 1973 he acquired the assets of ABC Films to create Worldvision Enterprises, a worldwide television distribution company. In 1979 Worldvision merged with Taft Broadcasting and when Taft was acquired by Great American Communications Corporation, he became President and Chief Executive Officer of its Entertainment Group. He later served as Chairman of the board of trustees of the Foundation of the International Council of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. After his retirement Mr. O'Sullivan dedicated himself wholly to the O'Sullivan Children Foundation, which he and his wife Carole started in memory of their children, Kevin, Jr., Colleen, and Terence. Mr. O'Sullivan was born in New York City in 1928 to Patrick and Christina O'Sullivan from County Kerry in Ireland. He is survived by his wife Carole and their daughter Erin Anne. Beloved brother of Brian O'Sullivan, brother of Sheila and Robert Beck, belovedbrother-in-law of Doris and Joseph Baffi, Joan and William Greene, Gayle & Richard Herber, brother-in-law of Elizabeth O'Sullivan. Devoted uncle of William Baffi, Brian and Kathy O'Sullivan, Joseph and Jane Baffi, Christopher and Tara Baffi, Tara O'Sullivan, Jill and Gene Gersbeck, Dawn and Daniel Opinante, Robert and Mary Baffi, Douglas and Christine Herber, Jennifer Herber, Bernadette and Albert Volpe, Thomas Baffi, Glen and Timothy Beck. Loving great-uncle of Kristopher, Jonathan, Nicholas, Mirahe, Dru, Kyle, Gianna, Robert Anthony and Anthony James Baffi, Brittany and Kelsey Opinante, Reily Herber, Sara Moran-Herber Cayden Volpe, Aubrie, Megan and Peter Gersbeck, Daniel and Julia O'Sullivan. Loving son of the deceased Christina and Patrick O'Sullivan. Loving son-in-law of the deceased Marjorie and Harold Christensen. Viewing will be held at Donohue Cecere Funeral Home in Westbury, Long Island, New York on Wednesday, January 11th and Thursday, January 12th from 2:00-4:00 PM and 7:0010:00 PM. The Funeral Mass will be held Friday, January 13 at 10:00 AM at St. Brigid's Roman Catholic Church, Westbury, N.Y. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to The O'Sullivan Children Foundation, 4 Bridle Path Drive, Old Westbury, NY 11568.
        $(6$)O'SULLIVAN -- Kevin. The Board and Staff of Catholic Home Bureau note with great sadness the death of Kevin O'Sullivan. The generosity of The O'Sullivan Children Foundation has enabled countless women to provide stable homes for their children. The personal commitment of Kevin and Carole O'Sullivan shines on as a beacon of hope in the lives of so many mothers helped in a time of great need. ''Wherever people gather, his deeds will speak his praise.'' We wish to convey our deepest sympathy to Carole and Erin. Julia V. Shea, Chairman of the Board Philip Georgini, Exec. Dir. Catholic Home Bureau
        $(6$)O'SULLIVAN--Kevin Patrick. The Board of Trustees of Holy Child Academy mourn the passing of Kevin P. O'Sullivan, former Trustee and Board Chair. A true Guardian Angel for his untiring and generous support as benefactor to Holy Child. We extend our most sincere condolences to his wife, Carole, and their daughter, Erin. Richard L. O'Hara, Chairman, Board of Trustees
        $(6$)O'SULLIVAN--Kevin Patrick. The Veterans of the Seventh Regiment note with sorrow the passing of their longtime member and benefactor, Lt. Kevin P. O'Sullivan. MG Dennis J. Fagan, President
      