
        SILVERMAN--Morris. JBI International (established in 1931 as the Jewish Braille Institute) deeply mourns the passing of Morris (Marty) Silverman, a longtime benefactor of JBI's unique services to the blind and visually impaired. In recent years, Mr. Silverman, whose eyesight was failing, used the JBI Library of Talking Books and Magazines to keep up with current events. Particularly dear to his heart was the extremely popular monthly Audio Cultural Series, which brings to the homebound elderly the best of music, drama and lectures of Jewish interest. Mr. Silverman's support of JBI's special work was thoughtful and enthusiastic. We will miss him. Our heartfelt condolences go out to his son, Lorin, and to the entire Silverman family who demonstrate in their own lives the philanthropic legacy of their father and grandfather. Judy E. Tenney, Chairman Barbara B. Friedman Honorary Chairman Dr. Ellen Isler, President Israel A. Taub, Vice President
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Marty. A true and caring leader who supported new ideas and programs benefiting millions of people world wide. His concerns were everywhere, realistic and practical. His family, associates and many friends have ''stepping stones'' to follow which he laid out clearly''do good, forget the credits.'' We honor his memory for everything he and his family did, and the love he had for so many. We extend sincere condolences to his family. Nat Yalowitz, President and CEO David Smith, Chairman Penn South Social Services, Inc. Penn South Program for Seniors (NORC) Board of Directors of PSSS and Staff of PSPS
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Marty. The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services acknowledges with sadness the death of Marty Silverman, a generous benefactor and friend to our agency. Marty made an extraordinary contribution to the community over many years and he will be greatly missed. Our condolences to his son Lorin and the entire family. John A. Herrmann, Jr. President Jean L. Troubh Co-Chair of the Board Joseph S. Kaplan Co-Chair of the Board Alan B. Siskind, Ph.D. Exec. Vice Pres. and CEO
        $(6$)SILVERMAN--Marty. The Citymeals-on-Wheels family deeply mourns the death of Marty Silverman whose caring generosity has lovingly nourished New York's frail elderly for over two decades and whose passionate commitment to helping others continues to inspire his children and grandchildren. We send our condolences to Lorin, Patti, Seth, Allison and the entire Silverman family. Their dedication to Marty's values endures as a living tribute to an exemplary human being.
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Morris. The Board and Administration of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center mourn the passing of Morris (Marty) Silverman, a special friend whose passion and advocacy for the Jewish elderly helped bring about the establishment of our Center. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. Arthur Goldstein, President Larry Simon, Chairman Joseph Gurwin, President Emeritus Herbert Friedman, Exec. VP
        $(6$)SILVERMAN -- Morris. The Board of Directors, administration, physicians & staff of Bellevue Woman's Hospital mourn the passing of Morris ''Marty'' Silverman. We thank him for his dedication to our hospital and extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Anne F. Saile President and C.E.O. Bellevue Woman's Hospital Niskayuna, NY
      