
        NUSSBAUM--Toby A. Age 66, died January 3, 2006 in New York after a lengthy struggle with pancreatic cancer. To the very end, she lived her life to the fullest, with grace, with dignity, with courage, with beauty and, most of all, with love. Toby was born on May 6, 1939. She grew up in Keene, New Hampshire and graduated from Brandeis University in 1960. While in college, she met her future husband Bernie Nussbaum, who was then a law school student. They married in June 1963 and had three children, Emily, Peter and Frank. Peter married Alexis Tannenbaum and they have two children, Wylie and Levi. Emily married Clive Thompson, and a week before Toby died Emily gave birth to her first child, Gabriel Ezra. Toby was aware of Gabriel's birth and was able to meet him, to her great delight. Toby had two brothers, Jay and Bob Sheinfeld, with whom she was very close, as she was with their spouses, Peggy and Susan, and her nieces, Jennifer, Rebecca, Gwen and Daryl. Toby was also a beloved member of Bernie's extended family, including his mother Molly, his brothers, Albert and Martin, their spouses and children, and Bernie's numerous cousins. When Bernie served as Counsel to the President of the United States in 1993 and 1994, Toby was a tower of strength and, in her own right, a respected and popular figure in Washington. All of her adult life Toby was active in political, community and philanthropic affairs. She was a finance chairman for Congresswoman Nita Lowey in her first race for Congress in 1988. She was selected as an elector in 1992 and voted in the Electoral College for President Clinton. She was an officer of the Westchester County Democratic Party. Toby served on the Board of Trustees of Brandeis University and Westchester Community College. She was deeply involved with UJA-Federation of New York, the Metropolitan Council for Jewish Poverty, the Jewish Community Relations Council, and the America-Israel Cultural Foundation. She served as an officer of her synagogue, Temple Israel Center of White Plains. For many years, she sang in Carnegie Hall as a member of the chorus of the New York Oratorio Society. At her homes in New York and Connecticut, she was a warm and engaging hostess. She was a wonderful and devoted friend to so many. Her husband, her children and her precious grandchildren were the joys of her life. And she was the joy of their lives. She will live forever in their memories and in the memories of so many others. Funeral services will be held on Thursday, January 5, 2006 at 12 noon at Temple Israel Center, 280 Old Mamaroneck Road, White Plains, NY (914 948 - 2800)(www.templeisrae lcenter.org). Contributions may be made in her memory to UJA-Federation of New York, 130 East 59th Street, New York 10022. Goodbye Toby. We will always love you. The Nussbaum Family Bernie Nussbaum Emily, Peter, Frank, Alexis and Clive, Wylie, Levi and Gabriel $(6$)NUSSBAUM--Toby. The Officers, Board and staff of the Jewish Community Relations Council mourn the passing of our esteemed Vice President and dear friend, Toby Nussbaum. We will deeply miss her intelligence, leadership and warmth. May Bernie and the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Matthew J. Maryles President Michael S. Miller Exec Vice President & CEO
      