
        FRANK--Sidney E. The Department of Psychiatry of New York Medical College and its entire faculty mourn with extreme sorrow the passing of our friend, neighbor, benefactor and a great humanitarian. He was not only a creative genius in his unparalleled career but also was that way in his generous philanthropy. He was deeply committed to making opportunities available to people less fortunate than he and he always had a special place in his heart for young people who were trying to improve themselves. We are eternally grateful to his recognition of our Department of Psychiatry to receive his unprecedented gift and to his interest in the various programs that are being developed because of it. Education of doctors and student as well as the public will be greatly enhanced for generations to come because of the generosity of this man. We will miss his creative, caring spirit and will do our best to carry out his vision. We extend our deepest heartfelt sympathy and condolences to his wife, children and grandchildren and to his dedicated staff and employees. Joseph T. English, M.D., Professor and Chairman Michael Blumenfield, M.D., Sidney E. Frank Distinguished Professor of Psychiatry Department of Psychiatry, New York Medical College $(6$)FRANK--Sidney E. The Board of Directors, management and staff of White Plains Hospital Center mourn with extreme sorrow the passing of our dear friend, board member and benefactor, Mr. Sidney E. Frank. Sidney Frank's contributions to our Hospital have made possible our preeminent position as a leading health care provider in Westchester County. A man of great talent and vision, Sidney Frank's generosity to those less fortunate is unparalleled. Sidney was a respected philanthropist who was deeply committed to improving the quality of life for families and children. We are truly grateful for his dedication to this hospital and our community. His endearing nature and vivacious spirit will be missed by all of us. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, children, grandchildren, family and employees. Paul M. Weissman Chairman, Board of Directors Jon B. Schandler President and CEO $(6$)FRANK--Sidney E. Marketing genius, sportsman, philanthropist and patron of so many noble and worthwhile endeavors. We were honored that our unique national mission of providing assistance to broadcasters in critical need commended itself to his favorable judgment. We bless the day he discovered our work and mourn the passing of our distinguished colorful benefactor. Philip Lombardo, Chairman Gordon Hastings, President Nicholas Verbitsky, Treasurer The Broadcasters Foundation 7 Lincoln Avenue Greenwich, Connecticut 06830 $(6$)FRANK--Sidney E. Westchester has lost its most generous citizen. We were proud to be his hometown radio stations and provide the music for his relentless generosity and remarkable philanthropy. Nancy and William O'Shaughnessy Whitney Radio WVOX and WRTN $(6$)FRANK--Sidney. So long old friend. You'll always be Mr. October to me. Bob F.
      