
        BRONFMAN--Andrea (Andy) Morrison. Age 60. Beloved wife of Charles. Loving mother of Jeremy & Marci, Pippa, Tony and Moira, stepmother to Stephen and Claudine, Ellen and Andrew and Dog Mom to Yoffi. Grandmother to Danielle, Scotty, Talia, Lila, Zack and Alexandra. She is also survived by her sister Marcia (Kappy) Flanders. Andy was passionately devoted to her friends, family and philanthropies in Israel, Canada and the U.S. She and her husband Charles changed the lives of tens of thousands of young Jews through their commitment to Taglit-birthright Israel. Andy founded and led the Gift of New York, a cultural arts and entertainment program to help the bereaved families of 9/11. As a founder of the Association of Israel's Decorative Arts (AIDA) she brought Israeli artists to North American galleries and collectors. She will be missed by all of us whose life she enriched by allowing us to be part of her extended family. Funeral Services will be held at B'nai Jeshurun Synagogue, 257 W. 88th St, New York City at 11 AM, Wednesday, January 25. Interment in Jerusalem.
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) are deeply shocked by the sudden passing of our esteemed Board member, Andrea (Andy) Bronfman. In loving partnership with her devoted husband, Charles, Andy's philanthropic endeavors were many and varied. Working quietly but with fervor, she helped devise innovative ways to make our world a better place, giving generously to a host of Jewish causes as well as to the arts, to Canadian and American institutions dealing with history and heritage, and to a variety of women's projects, health related causes, and humanitarian concerns. Andy's passionate devotion to Israel, Jewish life, and the Jewish people was part of her life's blood--a legacy from her parents that she was proud to carry forward. Her abiding concern for the welfare of Jews and Jewish communities overseas led to her active support for a wide range of JDC programs, from those dealing with the needs of Jewish children in the former Soviet Union to a women's health empowerment project in Israel. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Charles, to their children, Jeremy and Marci, Pippa, Tony and Moira, Ellen and Andrew, and Stephen and Claudine; to their grandchildren; to Andy's sister, Kappy Flanders; to her aunt, Elaine K. Winik, a past JDC officer and member of our Honorary Board; and to the entire Bronfman and Morrison families. May her memory be for a blessing. Judge Ellen M. Heller, President Eugene J. Ribakoff, Chairman of the Board Steven Schwager, Executive Vice President
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. Taglitbirthright israel partners, alumni and staff are deeply saddened and shocked by the tragic passing of Andrea Bronfman. Along with her husband, Charles, Andrea was one of the founding philanthropists and partners of Taglit-birthright israel six years ago. A devoted wife, mother and grandmother, Andy was dedicated to many causes in the US, Israel and Canada and her loss will be deeply felt by the thousands of people touched by her hard work, generosity and compassion. Andy's philanthropic interests in Jewish peoplehood and Zionism were varied and significant. Through a variety of programs, Andy saw to it that Israeli children, soldiers and the disadvantaged would have a brighter future through quality education and exposure to the arts. She also championed environmental causes in Israel and promoted ArabIsraeli dialogue in hopes that the people of Israel would someday live in peace with their neighbors. On behalf of the entire Taglit-birthright israel family, including the birthright israel Foundation and thousands of alumni from Israel and around the world, our thoughts and prayers go out to her husband, Charles, our Founding Chairman, their children, and the Bronfman and Morrison families. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion.
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The friends and colleagues of Andy express their sincere condolences to Andy's husband, Charles, her children, Jeremy and Marci, Pippa, Tony and Moira, and her stepchildren, Stephen and Claudine, Ellen and Andrew, her grandchildren, Danielle, Scotty, Talia, Lila, Zack and Alexandra, and her sister Marcia (Kappy) Flanders. Andy was passionately devoted to her friends, family and philanthropies in Israel, Canada and the U.S. She and her husband Charles changed the lives of tens of thousands of young Jews through their commitment to Taglit-birthright Israel. She was a founder of the Gift of New York, a cultural arts and entertainment program that brought healing and comfort to the bereaved families of 9/11. Her newest endeavor, AIDA, the Association of Israel's Decorative Arts, brought Israeli Artists to the attention of North American and English galleries and collectors. We miss her warmth and caring humor. She made us part of her extended family. We will never forget her. Andrea and Charles Bronfman Philanthropies Charles R. Bronfman Foundation Samuel and Saidye Bronfman Family Foundation Karen Karev Bromor Management Claridge, Inc. Andell
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Board, Faculty and Staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership mourn the untimely death of Andy Bronfman whose passion, vision, commitment and honesty shaped everything she touched. Among the myriad innovative endeavors and programs created by Andy, together with her husband Charles, that literally engaged Jews across the globe, CLAL acknowledges the pioneering initiatives for Rabbis that fosters unity and creativity throughout the Jewish community. Her legacy will live on through her love of the Jewish people. We extend our deepest condolences to Charles, our Past Chairman, their children, Jeremy and Marci, Pippa, Tony and Moira, Stephen and Claudine, and Ellen and Andrew, and the entire Bronfman family. Fern K. Hurst, Chairman Irwin Kula, President Donna M. Rosenthal, Executive Vice Chairman Brad Hirschfield, Vice President
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the tragic loss of longtime friend, Andrea Bronfman. Former Governor of the Institute and a member of the Presidents Circle, she provided critical philanthropic support. The Bronfman Chair of Plant Science and the Joseph E. Seagram and Sons Fund for Instrumentation have enhanced groundbreaking research in important scientific fields. We salute her commitment to Jewish life and the arts, and send heartfelt condolences to her husband Charles, children, grandchildren, and many friends. Robert B. Machinist, Chairman, American Committee Dr. Albert Willner, President, American Committee Martin S. Kraar, Exec. VP, American Committee Mandy Moross, Chairman, Weizmann Institute Prof. Ilan Chet, President, Weizmann Institute
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea M. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of The Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourn the sudden passing of Andrea M. Bronfman, beloved wife of our esteemed and dedicated trustee, Charles R. Bronfman. Andrea Bronfman was a compassionate philanthropist who cared deeply about the health care, social and educational needs of people throughout the world. At Mount Sinai, Andrea Bronfman, together with her husband, Charles, and other members of the Bronfman family generously supported important scientific and medical programs. Andrea Bronfman will be remembered with gratitude for her loyalty and thoughtful generosity. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Charles Bronfman and the entire Bronfman family at this difficult time. Peter W. May, Chairman Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., President and CEO
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the tragic loss of Andrea Bronfman, beloved wife of Charles R. Bronfman. Andrea displayed an unwavering commitment to Israel and worldwide Jewry. Pro ponents of higher education, Andrea and Charles studied Hebrew at The Hebrew University and lent their invaluable support to The Rothberg International School, creating enduring links between Israel and Diaspora Jews. We offer profound sympathies to Charles, their children, and to the entire Bronfman family. AFHU George A. Scherien, President Ira Lee Sorkin, Chairman Peter T. Willner, National Executive Director The Hebrew University Prof. Menachem Magidor, President
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of Andrea Bronfman. Andrea, a noted and generous philanthropist, was a dedicated benefactor of the Y and the Jewish community as a whole. The Y has been especially fortunate to have the involvment of the Bronfman family. We extend our deepest sympathies to Charles, Andrea's husband, her brother-in-law Edgar Bronfman Sr., Matthew, our Chairman of the Board and the entire Bronfman family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. As Andrea's life was a blessing so may her memory be. Michael Goldstein, President Patricia Cayne, PhD Co-Chair, Bronfman Center for Jewish Life Sol Adler, Executive Director
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea M. Hebrew Union CollegeJewish Institute of Religion records with profound sorrow the tragic and untimely death of Andrea Bronfman, beloved wife of Charles Bronfman. Her own dedication to her family and to the family of the Jewish people has made her an inspiring example of Jewish leadership. Her deep attachment to the State of Israel and Jewish survival has been manifested in her personal and professional commitments throughout her life. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family whose loss we deeply share. May they find comfort together for all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi David Ellenson, President Burton Lehman, Chair Board of Governors
        $(6$)BRONFMAN -- Andy. Andy was on a journey in life that included her husband Charles, their children, and their expanded families. But this was not just an Andy Bronfman journey, for it also swept up all those who knew her. We were all part of her journey, all part of her passion for life, all part of her ecstatic desire to change the world. Her passion overcame the most formidable obstacles and we all came to believe that our future and and the future of the State of Israel would be secure as long as she stood at the helm with Charles. On our journey in life we are happy to have found the path that Andy had created and it was our privilege to follow her as she lit the way. Condolences to the family. Dorothy and Andrew Tananbaum
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Wexner Foundation and its leadership communities mourn the untimely passing of one of the leading philanthropists in Jewish life, Andrea Bronfman. Andy embraced the ideals of the Jewish people, and her commitment to repairing the world was expressed in all of her work and known to the many she touched. We have lost a true friend, a wonderful colleague, and a remarkable leader. May her legacy continue, through Charles, her children, her grandchildren, and the many who benefited from her achievements. We are deeply saddened by her death, but will remain inspired by her life. Leslie and Abigail Wexner, Chairmen Larry Moses, President The Wexner Foundation
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Jewish Agency for Israel extends its heartfelt condolences to Charles and the entire family, on the tragic passing of his wife. Andrea will forever be remembered as a philanthropist and devoted worker on behalf of the entire Jewish People and Israeli Society. The Bronfman family has supported numerous charitable and educational efforts both in Israel and worldwide, notably the development of Taglit-birthright israel, of which the Jewish Agency is a partner. Her untimely death is a tremendous loss to the Jewish People. May you be comforted by her blessed memory. Zeev Bielski, Chairman The Jewish Agency for Israel Carole Solomon, Chair of the Board The Jewish Agency for Israel
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. It is with extreme sadness that the Association of Israel's Decorative Arts (AIDA) mourns the loss of Andrea (Andy) Bronfman. AIDA was founded in 2003 with the goal of nurturing the careers of emerging decorative artists from Israel and was built on three key elements: a passion for the arts, working together as a team, and caring for one another...these were all Andy's great talents. Andy formed a particularly strong bond with AIDA's artists. Each artist became a part of an extended family and like family, Andy celebrated each artist's achievements with the pride of a mother. Andy, we love you. We miss you. The AIDA Family Dale and Doug Anderson, Co-Chairs
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds deeply mourn the tragic and untimely passing of Andrea Bronfman, distinguished philanthropist and passionate supporter of Israel. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Charles, and the entire family. May they be consoled among the mourners of Zion and may her memory be for a blessing. Joshua Matza President and CEO Burton P. Resnick Chairman of the Board Michael Siegal Vice Chairman of the Board David Halpern National Chairman Daniel R. Tishman, Chairman Greater New York Region
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Fe deration of Palm Beach County mark with great sadness the passing of Andrea Bronfman. Her support of important and critical causes in Israel, the greater Palm Beaches, Candada, and throughout the world through the Andrea and Charles Bronfman philanthropies, birthright israel and other initiatives serve as an inspiration and example to all who knew and loved her and will for generations to come. We extend our deepest sympathies to her husband Charles and the entire Bronfman and Morrison families. Judith A. Levy, President Jeffrey L. Klein, Chief Executive Officer
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea (Andy). The Board of Directors, Advisory Board, Medical Advisory Board and staff of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation mourn the tragic and untimely death of our beloved friend and dedicated Advisory Board member, Andy Bronfman. Her selfless generosity and exuberance for life set an example for us all. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to her husband Charles, and to all of their children and grandchildren. She will be greatly missed. A light has gone out in our lives. Evelyn H. Lauder, Founder and Chairman Myra J. Biblowit, President Larry Norton, MD, Scientific Director
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Board, staff and studio users of UrbanGlass, the New York Contemporary Glass Center, notes with great sadness the loss of Andrea Bronfman, a true supporter of the contemporary art glass community. UrbanGlass admired and shares her commitment to young and emerging artists. We extend our deepest sympathies to her loving husband Charles Bronfman, and to her children and grandchildren. Carl Pforzheimer III, Chairman of the Board of Directors Cynthia Manocherian, Vice Chair Paul Gumbinner, Chairman Emeritus Dawn Bennett, Executive Director
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. Beth Hatefutsoth, the Museum of the Jewish Diaspora in Tel Aviv and its American Friends, mourn the tragic loss of Andrea Bronfman, former Chair of the Museum's Board. A dedicated benefactor and great friend of Israel and the Jewish people. Our most heartfelt condolences to her husband Charles and the entire bereaved family. Shlomo Lahat, Chairman of the Board Leonid Nevzlin, Chairman Board of Governors Sam E. Bloch Chairman, American Friends Aaron Feingold, President Harvey M. Krueger, Trustee Barbara Mandel, Trustee Gloria Golan, Director
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The American Jewish Committee is shocked and profoundly saddened by the untimely death of Andrea Bronfman. She, along with her husband Charles, were longtime AJC friends and supporters. Through her love of, and generous support for Israel, the Jewish people, her adopted city of New York, education, health care and the arts, she enhanced countless lives around the world. We mourn this tragic loss and send our most heartfelt condolences to her beloved family and many friends. E. Robert Goodkind, Pres. David A. Harris, Exec. Dir.
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Gift of Life Bone Marrow Foundation is deeply saddened by the sudden and tragic loss of our dear friend and supporter, Andrea Bronfman. We were fortunate to benefit from her friendship, generosity of spirit and enduring commitment to the Jewish people. The enthusiastic guidance and encouragement of the Bronfman family inspired us in our mission to save lives. We offer our deepest condolences to her husband, Charles, and her beloved family. Jay Feinberg, Exec. Dir. The Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. HIAS, Inc., the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, mourns the tragic passing of one of the world Jewish community's most dedicated and generous advocates and philanthropists. Her tireless efforts on behalf of people in need all over the world were an inspiration to all of us. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband, Charles, and the entire Bronfman family. May her memory be for a blessing. Jerome Teller, Chair of the Board Neil Greenbaum, President and CEO
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Board and Staff of the National Foundation for Jewish Culture mourn the untimely death of Andrea Bronfman. Andy and her husband Charles have been visionary patrons of Jewish cultural creativity both in North America and in Israel. The AIDA project, which Andrea championed, has brought a new generation of Israeli artist to the attention of collectors and curators throughout North America. We will miss her leadership and passion. May her memory be a blessing for her family and all who were fortunate to know her.
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea, Z''L. The Executive Committee, Board of Directors and Staff Of FEDERATION CJA express profound sympathy on behalf of the Montreal Jewish Community to Charles R. Bronfman and Family, Jeremy and Marci, Pippa, and Tony and Moira Cohen and Marcia Flanders on the untimely passing of Andrea Bronfman, Z''L, whose legacy is love for her family and devotion to philanthropic causes worldwide. May her memory forever be a blessing.
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and the American Associates deeply mourn the tragic passing of a dear friend and an avid supporter of Jewish causes, Andrea Bronfman. We extend our deepest sympathies to her husband Charles and to the entire family. Roy J. Zuckerberg, Chairman of the Board of Governors Prof. Avishay Braverman, President, BGU Prof. Jimmy Weinblatt, Rector
        $(6$)BRONFMAN -- Andrea. She was the light of the philanthropic world. How lucky Israel Guide Dog Center was to have been blessed by her radiant acts of generosity. Everyday scores of blind Israelis are guided by dogs cared for at our veterinary clinic named for her dog Yoffi. She is gone but the light of hope she offered shines always. Our deepest condolences to her husband Charles and the entire family. Norman Leventhal, President Noach Braun, Director
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Jewish community has lost a true hero. Andrea Bronfman, with her husband Charles, has been a visionary in strengthening Jewish life throughout the world. So many of us have been touched by her dedication and commitment to our highest values. Our heartfelt condolences to Charles and the Bronfman family. Peter Joseph, President Elizabeth Scheuer, Chair David Black, Exec. Director The JCC in Manhattan
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The John O'Donnell Company mourns the tragic and untimely death of Andrea Bronfman. Through their generosity, Andrea and her husband Charles helped many of our non-profit clients to fulfill their missions. Her acts of philanthropy live on through the numerous organizations and millions of people she touched. We extend our deepest condolences to Charles and the entire family. Steven T. Wozencraft, Pres
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The New Israel Fund family mourns the death of our friend and benefactor Andrea Bronfman. We were honored by her support, by her dedication to environmental justice in Israel, and by her inclusion of our work in her dedication to Tikkun Olam, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to Charles and her family. Peter Edelman, President Larry Garber, Executive Director
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Board and Staff of Avoda Arts send their most heartfelt condolences to the family of Andrea Bronfman. The world has lost a soul who strived every day to make Judaism joyous and relevant to everyone, and who succeeded brilliantly. Thank you for your example, in every way. Carol Spinner, Debbie Krivoy, Aviva Garbowit, Tamara Mann, Jessie Mann, Zion Ozeri, Tobi Kahn
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The staff and board of Reboot, for which Andy was a driving force and founding funder, wish to celebrate her life, imagination, fiery wit and fierce belief in young people. She will continue to be an inspiration to us all, both personally and professionally. We offer our sincere condolences to Charles and to her entire family. She will be deeply missed by all of us in her Reboot family.
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. JCC Association mourns the tragic and sudden passing of Andrea Bronfman. As a provider of Taglit-birthright israel, one of Andy's and Charles's visionary endeavors, we have witnessed her profound impact on a generation of young Jews. Our heartfelt condolences go out to Charles and the entire family. Edward H. Kaplan, Chair Allan Finkelstein, Pres.
        $(6$)BRONFMAN -- Andrea. Temple Emanu-El of Palm Beach, FL. mourns the untimely death of its member, Andrea Bronfman. May her memory remain for a blessing to her husband Charles and her family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Gladys R. Jacobson, Pres Nogah Sherman, Rabbi David Feuer, Hazzan Eric Shatzkin, Exec Dir
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem mourns the tragic passing of Andrea Bronfman, a beloved supporter and friend. Our deepest sympathy goes out to her husband Charles and the entire family. Arnon Zuckerman, President Jennifer Roth, President, Friends of Bezalel
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. Israel Policy Forum joins our community in mourning the tragic loss of Andrea Bronfman. We send comfort to her loved ones. Her memory will be a blessing and inspiration for generations to come. Seymour D. Reich, Pres Marvin Lender, Chair Jonathan Jacoby, Exec Dir
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. Andy, we will miss our dinners, hikes and ''mega'' events with you. Most of all, we will miss your intensity, your laugh, your loyalty and your love. At this sad moment we reach out to you Charles, with enduring friendship. Love, Judy and Michael Steinhardt
        $(6$)BRONFMAN -- Andrea. Ohr Torah Stone Institutions of Israel Monica Dennis Goldberg School for Women Advocates record with sorrow the tragic and untimely passing of Andrea Bronfman a great philanthropist and benefactor on behalf of our programs for women in need of divorce. Shlomo Riskin, Chancellor
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. We deeply grieve the tragic passing of our dear friend, Andy Bronfman, truly a woman of valor. Our hearts go out to Charles, their children and grandchildren. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her. Arlene, Jack and Jay Feinberg
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andy. She was a gracious caring woman who helped beautify our Park. Her untimely death is profoundly sad. We extend our sincere condolences to her family. Central Park Conservancy Douglas Blonsky, President And Trustees
        $(6$)BRONFMAN -- Andrea. Ha rold Grinspoon, Diane Troderman and the Harold Grinspoon Foundation send our deepest sympathies to the Bronfman family on the untimely loss of Andrea Bronfman. May her life's work and memory continue to be a blessing to us all.
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member Andrea Bronfman. We extend condolences to Charles and the entire family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, Pres
        $(6$)BRONFMAN -- Andrea. To Marcy, Jeremy, Danielle, Scott and Talia Cohen our love and thoughts are with you and the entire Bronfman family. Love, Amy and Jeffrey Silverman
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. A very special lady who brought a lot of love into people's lives. My most heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband Charles and the entire family. Elaine Sargent
        $(6$)BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Jewish philanthropic world has tragically lost a true adornment. The Trustees and staff of AVI CHAI
      