
        LANGERMAN -- David W., M.D. David Walter Langerman, M.D. of Nyack, NY, died on Tuesday, January 10 at the age of 71. A prominent ophthalmologist in private practice in New York for over 38 years, Dr. Langerman was the Founder and Medical Director of the Langerman Eye Institute and The New York Institute for Same Day Surgery in Orangeburg, NY, with a satellite office in Middletown, N.Y. Dr. Langerman's distinguished career in medicine began at the University of Bern, Switzerland, followed by an internship at the Brookdale Hospital in Brooklyn, N.Y. Dr. Langerman also completed a fellowship in Neuro-Ophthalmology at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in New York and a residency at Downstate Medical Center. Dr. Langerman's long and prestigious career as an ophthalmologist focused on cataract, glaucoma, corneal transplant, and refractive surgery. Dr. Langerman's groundbreaking work in the field of cataract surgery included the development of the self-sealing single-hinge incision better known as ''The Langerman Hinge Incision.'' Dr. Langerman received numerous professional awards and honors for his research and published many articles on advanced techniques for cataract and refractive surgery. His academic publications and films received first place awards at the American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery. Additionally, Dr. Langerman was sought out as an author and presenter by his professional peers for his work in advanced surgical procedures. Many New Yorkers will recognize Dr. Langerman from his weekly radio program called Health Talk, as well as frequent appearances as an interviewee on television and in print. Dr. Langerman was a fellow of both The American College of Surgeons and The American Academy of Ophthalmology, and was a member of numerous professional societies including the American, European, and International Societies of Refractive and Cataract Surgeons. Dr. Langerman is survived by his loving wife Nancy; he was predeceased by his first wife, Wendy Helene Langerman, in 1990; he is also survived by two loving daughters and their spouses and grandchildren: Beth Langerman Friedman and Josh Friedman of Los Angeles, CA and Sheryl Langerman Rosenfeld and Warren Rosenfeld of Portland OR, and Spencer, Wesley, Oliver, Allie and Will. Also surviving are Lisa and Ken Malpeli, Jeffrey and Tara Anarumo, Patrick and Christine Anarumo, Joseph and Theresa Anarumo and nine step grandchildren, Stephanie, Joseph, Nicholas, Danielle, Michael, Nicole, Jacqueline, Amanda, and Sophia. Funeral Services will be held on Thursday, January 12, at 11:30 AM at New City Jewish Center located at 47 Old Schoolhouse Road in New City, NY.
      