
        GREENFIELD -- George T. Age 77, died peacefully Thursday January 12, 2006. Adored husband of Susan. Devoted father of Abbi and Paul Neuthaler, Dina and Richard Schechter, Gary and Lori Gertzog, Ellen and Jonathan Silver. Doting grandfather of Jamie and Jake, Alison and Marc, Allison and Bryan, Brandon and Caroline. Born in the Bronx December 31, 1928. Attended Brooklyn Tech High School, graduate of The City College of NY and Brooklyn Law School. Cofounder and senior partner of the Accounting firm of Weisbach and Greenfield. Devoted family man, avid traveler, sportsman and sports fan. He played basketball and lacrosse for City College, a self taught tennis champ and passionate golfer. Attended worldwide sporting events. Lifelong friend to many. Member of Fresh Meadow Country Club and Tennisport. Trustee at Parker Jewish Geriatric Institute. He will be missed by all who knew him. Funeral Services Sunday January 15 at 11 AM Riverside-Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. Interment Knollwood Cemetery. Contributions can be made to Parker Jewish Geriatric Institute. $(6$)GREENFIELD -- George T. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board, League, Administration and Staff of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation deeply mourn the passing of our beloved Treasurer, George T. Greenfield. George exemplified the highest levels of professional excellence and human warmth. A member of the Board of Trustees for 15 years, George Greenfield was a truly dynamic man of great generosity, integrity and tireless commitment to furthering the Institute's mission of adding quality time to later life. George will remain forever in our hearts as a friend, leader & symbol of the very best of humanity. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Susan, their children and grandchildren. Jerry Landsberg, Chairman of the Board Michael N. Rosenblut, President and CEO $(6$)GREENFIELD--George T. It is with profound sorrow that the accounting firm of Weisbach & Greenfield, P.C., record the passing of our founding member and senior partner George T. Greenfield. You were a mentor, a friend and a role model for all of us and you will be missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Susan, and the entire family. $(6$)GREENFIELD -- George T. Susan, we mourn with you the loss of your beloved George. It was an honor and pleasure to have a lifetime friend of a man of his kindness, warmth and courage. He will be greatly missed by all of us. Love, Esther, Sylvia, Al, Bob, Ades $(6$)GREENFIELD--George. We will miss your smile, your laugh and your wonderful temperament. Our heartfelt sympathies to Sue, Deena and Abby. Marion and Gerry Sussman $(6$)GREENFIELD--George. To Susan, our heartfelt condolences go out to you and your entire family. To our friend George, you shall be deeply missed by all. Phylis and Ted Ain $(6$)GREENFIELD -- George. Dear friend, we had many happy memories. We will miss you. Condolences to Susan and family. Bea and Fred. $(6$)GREENFIELD -- George. Deepest sympathy to Sue and the family. Your friendship cannot be replaced. Arlene, Lester and family
      