
        FINKELSTEIN - Seymour. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved longtime member and former board member, Seymour Finkelstein. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to his family. Earle Yaffa, President Dale Winston, Secretary $(6$)FINKELSTEIN--Seymour. My brother Sy was a very special person loved by all who knew him. An active alumnus of the University of Pennsylvania, devoted to a wonderful family and to his many, many friends. Both Lynn and I send heartfelt sympathies to Andrew, Charles, Robert, Adam, their families & his devoted Herta. Manny $(6$)FINKELSTEIN -- Seymour. The University of Pennsylvania Westchester Alumni Association mourns the passing of our esteemed former alumni trustee and dear friend, Sy Finkelstein. Your style always made us smile. We'll miss you. Cindy Shmerler, President Bob Sandler, Past-President $(6$)FINKELSTEIN--Seymour. A kindhearted man who made a friend of everyone he encountered, passed on January 2, 2006. His enthusiasm for art, people, Penn, colorful socks, sports and humor, lifted the spirits of all around him. Sy will be greatly missed by his companion, Herta, her children and grandchildren. $(6$)FINKELSTEIN--Seymour. We have lost a dear lifelong friend. We mourn with Andrew, Chuck, Rob and Adam and their families-and with Herta. Ira and Jacquie Bellsey $(6$)FINKELSTEIN -- Seymour. Uncle Sy, you were a wonderful uncle and wonderful role model. We will miss you. Love, Paul and Barbara, Neil and Mora, Richard and Susan Finkelstein and families $(6$)FINKELSTEIN--Seymour. A lifetime of shared memories with cousin Sy. A charismatic man with class, grace and generosity. Melvin and Elaine Finkelstein & Family $(6$)FINKELSTEIN--Seymour. We mourn the loss of a great friend whose life personified the word gentleman. Bob, Steve and Stacy Greenes $(6$)FINKELSTEIN--Seymour. Sy, we will love you always, we will miss you, and think of all the wonderful years together. Stanislaus & Bobolink
      